{"id": "1115808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1115808", "title": "2004 Osama bin Laden video", "text": "2004 Osama bin Laden video\n\nOn October 29, 2004, at 21:00 UTC, al Jazeera broadcast excerpts allegedly from a videotape of Osama bin Laden addressing the people of the United States; in this video, he accepts responsibility for the September 11 attacks, condemns the Bush government's response to those attacks, and presents those attacks as part of a campaign of revenge and deterrence motivated by his witnessing of the destruction in the Lebanese Civil War in 1982. News analysts speculated that the release of the video was timed to influence the 2004 U.S. presidential election, which would take place four days later.\n\nThe video is reported to be 18 minutes in length; Osama only speaks for 14 minutes 39 seconds. Al-Jazeera released a transcript of the complete tape on November 1, 2004.\n\nBin Laden appears wearing a turban and a white robe partially covered by a golden mantle, standing in front of an almost featureless brown background and reading his comments from papers resting on a podium. He moves both of his arms (dispelling rumors that one of them is limp after having been wounded) and looks healthy as far as can be told, but a bit older and greyer than in his former tapes. His remarks, in Arabic but addressed to citizens of the United States, instruct them that \"the best way to avoid another Manhattan\" (a reference to the September 11, 2001 attacks), is to not threaten the security of Muslim nations, such as Palestine and Lebanon.\n\nHe speaks of his desire to bankrupt the U.S., saying:\n\n[It is] easy for us to provoke and bait this administration. All that we have to do is to send two mujahidin to the furthest point east to raise a piece of cloth on which is written al-Qaeda, in order to make the generals race there and cause America to suffer human, economic, and political losses. ... This is in addition to our having experience in using guerrilla warfare and the war of attrition to fight tyrannical superpowers, as we, alongside the mujahidin, bled Russia for 10 years, until it went bankrupt and was forced to withdraw in defeat.\n\nHe dismisses as rhetoric claims by U.S. President George W. Bush that the attacks occurred because Islamic extremists \"hate freedom\", saying: \"If Bush says we hate freedom, let him tell us why we didn't attack Sweden, for example. It is known that freedom-haters don't have defiant spirits like those of the 19—may God have mercy on them\".\n\nBin Laden further accuses U.S. President George W. Bush of misleading the American people during the previous three years—\"Despite entering the fourth year after September 11, Bush is still deceiving you and hiding the truth from you and therefore the reasons are still there to repeat what happened\"—as well as criticizing Bush's actions on the day of the attacks: \"It never occurred to us that the Commander-in-Chief of the country would leave 50,000 citizens in the two towers to face those horrors alone because he thought listening to a child discussing her goats was more important.\"\n\nGeorge W. Bush said:\n\nLet me make this very clear: Americans will not be intimidated or influenced by an enemy of our country. I'm sure Senator Kerry agrees with this. I also want to say to the American people that we're at war with these terrorists and I am confident that we will prevail.\n\nPresidential candidate Senator John Kerry said:\n\nLet me make it clear, crystal clear: as Americans, we are absolutely united in our determination to hunt down and destroy Osama bin Laden and the terrorists. They are barbarians, and I will stop at absolutely nothing to hunt down, capture or kill the terrorists wherever they are, whatever it takes. Period.\n\nEven though al Jazeera (when broadcasting the footage on its evening newscast) did not disclose the source of the video, sources within the United States intelligence community have confirmed that the speaker, who appears behind a lectern, is indeed bin Laden. By mentioning 2004 U.S. presidential candidate John Kerry by name, the tape would seemed to prove that bin Laden was still alive at least midway through 2004, which was not known by certainty at the time.\n\nAccording to the Agence France-Presse, U.S. diplomats in Qatar were given a copy of a videotape of Osama before it aired on al Jazeera television; the diplomats unsuccessfully sought to prevent the Arabic language network from broadcasting it. The United States State Department requested that the government of Qatar (where Al Jazeera is located) discourage the station from airing the videotape, according to a senior State Department official.\n\nEven though the tape was analyzed by American intelligence to determine if it contains any coded messages to operatives, White House spokesman Scott McClellan commented that there were no plans to raise the U.S. terrorism alert level, as no specific threats were made in the tape.\n\nRon Suskind noted that the CIA analysis of the video led them to the consensus view that the tape was designed strategically to help President Bush win reelection in 2004. Deputy CIA director John E. McLaughlin noted at one meeting, \"Bin Laden certainly did a nice favor today for the President.\" Suskind quoted Jami Miscik, CIA deputy associate director for intelligence, as saying \"Certainly, he would want Bush to keep doing what he's doing for a few more years.\" The same speculation has been made by Bahukutumbi Raman.\n\nThe 2004 tape boosted the popularity of George W. Bush. President Bush opened up a six-point lead over his opponent Senator John Kerry in the first opinion poll to include sampling taken after the videotape was broadcast. However, Kerry won the category of people who considered the tape \"very important\" 53% to 47% according to CNN's exit poll.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10305930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10305930", "title": "Abraham Pais Prize for History of Physics", "text": "Abraham Pais Prize for History of Physics\n\nThe Abraham Pais Prize for History of Physics is an award given each year since 2005 jointly by the American Physical Society and the American Institute of Physics for \"outstanding scholarly achievements in the history of physics\". The prize is named after Abraham Pais (1918-2000), science historian and particle physicist; as of 2013 it is valued at $10,000.\n\nSource: American Physical Society\n\n"}
{"id": "1107691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1107691", "title": "Angus Wright (academic)", "text": "Angus Wright (academic)\n\nAngus Lindsay Wright is professor emeritus and one of the founders of the Environmental Studies program at California State University, Sacramento, where he taught from 1972–2005. (Wes Jackson was another of the founders.)\n\nWright earned his Ph.D. in Latin American History from the University of Michigan in 1976 with a dissertation on \"Market, Land and Class: Southern Bahia, Brazil, 1890–1942.\" He has done research in Mexico and Brazil with the support of Fulbright and Doherty Research grants.\n\nWright's first book was \"The Death of Ramon Gonzalez: The Modern Agricultural Dilemma\" (University of Texas Press, 1990). This book is now available in an updated, second edition, published in 2005 by the University of Texas Press.\n\nWright is the co-author of \"To Inherit the Earth: The Landless Movement and the Struggle for a New Brazil\", published in 2003 by Food First!. He joined ecologists Ivette Perfecto and John Vandermeer of the University of Michigan to write \"Nature's Matrix: Linking Conservation, Agriculture, and Food Sovereignty\", published in 2009 by Earthscan Press of London. He has also written numerous articles on environmental history and the social and environmental consequences of agriculture and of property ownership in the Americas.\n\nWright has served as President and board member of the \"Pesticide Action Network North America\" and the \"Institute for Food and Development Policy \"(Food First) and is Chairman of the Board of The Land Institute. As a member of the \"Investigative Mechanism\" (an independent citizen review board) of the Inter-American Development Bank, he coordinated a study of Latin America's largest hydroelectric plant, Yacyreta. He continues to lecture frequently at universities around the United States. From 2005 through 2007 he served as a lead author on the International Assessment of Agricultural Knowledge, Science and Technology for Development, sponsored by the United Nations, the World Bank, and a variety of other institutions and organizations and now available in various forms from Island Press.\n\nHis wife Mary Mackey is a fellow CSU Sacramento academic, poet and novelist.\n\n"}
{"id": "7678491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7678491", "title": "Anton Maria Del Chiaro", "text": "Anton Maria Del Chiaro\n\nAnton-Maria Del Chiaro (born between 1660 and 1680) was a Florentine Italian secretary of Constantin Brancoveanu, the Prince of Wallachia.\n\nHe is the author of a book on the history of Wallachia of his time, called \"Istoria delle moderne rivoluzioni della Valachia\" (\"History of Modern Revolutions of Walachia\"), dedicated to Pope Clement XI, written in Italian, and printed in Venice in 1718.\n\n"}
{"id": "25025752", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25025752", "title": "Antonio del Río", "text": "Antonio del Río\n\nAntonio del Río (c. 1745 – c. 1789) was a captain who led the first excavation of the Mayan ruins of Palenque in Chiapas, Mexico. The expedition was undertaken in 1787 for Charles III of Spain, following reports of the ruins from native inhabitants. It took the team two weeks to dig, and it then spent three weeks studying the site. He was accompanied by Ricardo Almendáriz who created drawings of the ruins still considered scientifically useful.\n"}
{"id": "35836039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35836039", "title": "Augusto Del Noce", "text": "Augusto Del Noce\n\nAugusto Del Noce (11 August 1910 – 30 December 1989) was an Italian philosopher and political thinker.\n\nDel Noce was born in Tuscany but he grew up and studied in Turin, which between the two World Wars was one of the main centers of secular and anti-Fascist culture in Italy. He completed his degree in Philosophy in 1932 at the University of Turin, with a dissertation on Malebranche under the direction of Adolfo Faggi. Between 1934 and 1943 he published a series of essays on early modern philosophy that established his reputation as a specialist in the field, not only in Italy but also in France where his work was praised by well-known scholars such as Étienne Gilson and Henri Gouhier. His studies of modern rationalism reflected a broader interest in the relationship between Catholic thought and secular culture that he had developed during years in Turin. After having been one of the first Italian readers of French Catholic philosopher Jacques Maritain, and a thoughtful anti-Fascist, Del Noce turned after the war to the question of the relationship between Christianity and Communism. In 1946 he published two essays on Marx which included an extended discussion of the place of atheism in Marx’s philosophy. His works on Marx were part of a lifelong interest in the role of atheism in the history of modern philosophy, which culminated in 1964 in his magnum opus \"The Problem of Atheism.\" In 1965 he also published a large monographic work \"Catholic Reformation and Modern Philosophy, Vol. 1: Descartes.\" In 1966 Del Noce was appointed Professor of History of Modern and Contemporary Philosophy at the University of Trieste, but in 1970 he transferred to the University of Rome \"La Sapienza,\" where he was appointed Professor of History of Political Doctrines and later Professor of Political Philosophy. During the late 1960s and early 1970s, Del Noce's focus shifted to the theme of secularization and contemporary history. Some of his essays from this period were published in the 1971 volume \"The Age of Secularization.\" Later in that decade Del Noce returned to the question of the relationship between Catholics and Marxists and wrote two new books, \"The Catholic Communist\" and one of his most famous and controversial works, \"The Suicide of the Revolution,\" in which he argued that the process of dissolution of Marxism into neo-bourgeois nihilism is already at work in the thought of Antonio Gramsci. In his final years Del Noce became very much a “public intellectual,” writing numerous articles in newspapers and weekly magazines, and becoming involved in the Italian political debate to the point of serving a term as a senator. His final philosophical work was an extensive monograph on the philosophy of Giovanni Gentile and on his relationship with Fascism. Del Noce died suddenly on December 30, 1989, a few weeks after the fall of the Berlin wall had marked symbolically the final disintegration of the Marxist revolution, which he had predicted many years earlier on philosophical grounds. In his native Italy Del Noce is widely regarded as one of the pre-eminent philosophers and political thinkers of the second half of the 20th century. Although he was a distinguished scholar of early modern philosophy, he is especially remembered for his penetrating exegesis of the philosophy of Marx, for his innovative interpretation of Fascism and for his critique of the progressive-technocratic culture that became gradually dominant in Europe after World War II.\n\nA common thread of Del Noce's work is the attempt to understand the connection between philosophical ideas and socio-political history. Against the prevailing Marxist and neo-positivist opinions of his contemporaries, he always maintained that philosophical ideas influence the course of human history, and that modern history in particular can only be understood as the unfolding of certain philosophical options (rationalism, immanentism, scientism). In fact, one of his core ideas was that modern history, if correctly interpreted, provides the best vindication of classical metaphysics by showing that rationalism leads to contradictory outcomes, as exemplified by the trajectory of Marxism. In some of his best known works he advanced the thesis that Marxism suffers what he called an \"heterogenesis of ends,\" meaning that it is destined to triumph and self-destruct at the same time, due to its internal contradictions. To triumph, because Marx’s radical atheism and materialism are the most consistent outcomes of European rationalism. To self-destruct because, as soon as the revolutionary dream fades away, Marxian historical materialism must degenerate into absolute relativism and open the way to a “perfectly bourgeois” society, a de-humanized world that does not recognize any permanent order of values and in which alienation becomes complete.\n\nMore generally, Del Noce regarded the expansion of atheism as the central question of modern philosophy. Its appearance at the endpoint of all forms of rationalism reveals that rationalism itself is based on a precondition, namely the decision to reject any notion of an original fall. A careful investigation of philosophy after Descartes shows that rejecting the \"status naturae lapsae\" was the first step in rejecting the supernatural, to be followed later on by the rejection of every form of transcendence. However, since these rejections cannot be based on any proof, atheism can only justify itself as the outcome of an irreversible historical process, understood as a process of secularization and, at the same time, as the only practical attitude which is capable of actually producing universal human fulfillment. In other words, for late rationalism the criterion of truth of a philosophy reduces to its ability to surpass and integrate all previous forms of thought. For this reason, Del Noce regarded the periodization of history of philosophy itself as the crucial theoretical question of contemporary philosophy. In his book \"The Problem of Atheism\" he argued that, precisely in order to place atheism in the history of philosophy, it is necessary to call into question and to abandon the view that the process of the history of thought is a unitary process towards immanentism. This shows that atheism is not the necessary outcome of modern philosophy, but rather a problematic outcome, inasmuch it does not lead to the promised fulfillment but rather to forms of nihilism. Contemporary history provides the best proof that the trajectory of rationalism has a nihilistic endpoint: atheism has achieved complete success not in the historical implementation of Marxism, but rather in the affluent society, which pushes to the extreme the de-humanization of the relationship with the other. In its historical realization Marxism has ended up being a stage in the development of the affluent society, which accepts all its negations of traditional thought but at the same time eliminates the messianic/religious aspect of Marxism.\n\nIn the late 1960s Del Noce’s focused his attention on the task of constructing a philosophical interpretation of the most recent developments in contemporary history. In particular, he felt the need for a clear philosophical understanding of the new challenges that were being posed by the progressivism of the 1960s (in both its secular and Catholic forms), by the rampant secularization of European society, by the sexual revolution and in general by the new technocratic and affluent society that had taken shape after the Second World War. His most significant essays from this period were collected in the volume \"The Age of Secularization.\" Del Noce argued that Western history after 1945 was marked by a particular interpretation of the historical period between the two World Wars. According to this “progressive” interpretation, Nazism and Fascism were symptoms of a general collapse of European civilization, which must be replaced by a new civilization based on science and on the rejection of all metaphysical doctrines. This has led to a type of new Enlightenment, which however is an Enlightenment after Marx, inasmuch it preserves all of Marx’s metaphysical negations. Del Noce maintained that the outcome of this new scientistic-relativistic-progressivist culture is necessarily nihilistic and totalitarian, since science per se is not capable of formulating new ideals. As a response, he developed a different interpretation of contemporary history, in which Fascism and Nazism are just stages in a broader process of secularization that actually centers on Marxism and on the failure of the modern “revolutionary gnosis.” He also argued that the correct way to answer the challenge posed by secularization is not by rejecting modernity altogether but by correcting it in light of the classical metaphysical tradition, which must be rediscovered, renewed and purified.\n\nDel Noce wrote extensively about Freudo-Marxism and on the relationship between political progressivism and the sexual revolution. He argued that both of them are rooted in the denial a priori that human reason is capable of reaching meta-empirical truths, and so they are tightly linked with scientism, the dogmatic belief that the empirical sciences are the only form of rationality. The reduction of reason to science goes hand in hand with the reduction of freedom to the satisfaction of instincts, which in turn is expressed politically as fight against “repression” and leads to a radical rejection of all traditional values. He further argued that the scientistic postulate is intrinsically totalitarian, inasmuch it de-legitimates all other forms of knowledge.\n\nDel Noce also studied in depth the relationship between freedom and authority. In a long essay from 1975 he pointed out that, whereas in the classic and humanistic tradition authority was associated with liberation (e.g. from the power of sub-human instincts and from social manipulation), contemporary culture associates authority with repression. As a result, the modern world confuses authority and power with disastrous effects. In particular, the progressive culture since World War II has associated the defense of freedom with the rejection of metaphysical knowledge and the embrace of relativism. However, any form of liberalism that does not acknowledge the nature of authority must conclude to an even greater oppression, by making the individual completely dependent on society. According to Del Noce, freedom can only defended by rediscovering the true meaning of authority, which is tightly linked to the idea of evidence. Evidence is the foundation and the paradigm of authority, because it asks of the mind a more radical submission than could be obtained by force, but in this submission the mind finds its ultimate liberation from all arbitrary social powers. Thus, Del Noce said, the theme of authority brings us back to the Socratic origins of classical metaphysics, which have to be rediscovered in order to overcome the present crisis of our civilization.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52182998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52182998", "title": "Barbanera", "text": "Barbanera\n\nBarbanera is a famous Italian almanac, printed for the first time in 1762 and still published yearly today.\n\nSince the first edition, the Barbanera has been issued in the form of a wall calendar and paperback almanac. In addition to the calendar for that year, it traditionally proposes weather forecasts, information about lunar phases and the stars, curious facts, proverbs, gardening tips and advice for a healthy lifestyle.\nAll contents are inspired by the figure of a legendary astronomer and philosopher, depicted in different editions with a long black beard.\n\nBecause of its popularity, Barbanera is referred to by the most respected Italian dictionaries as a synonym for almanac. An essential, both secular and religious guide for generations of Italians, it has carried out the task of spreading knowledge in the fields of technology and agriculture throughout the centuries. \nGabriele D'Annunzio defined it \"the flower of all time and the wisdom of nations\".\n\nThrough the collection of almanacs conserved in the Fondazione Barbanera 1762, Barbanera has been part of the documentary heritage of humanity since 2015, referred to by UNESCO in the Memory of the World Register as \"symbol of a literary genre, which helped to create the mass culture and identity-making heritage of entire nations, up until the advent of more modern forms of mass communication\".\n"}
{"id": "3107891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3107891", "title": "Daum (studio)", "text": "Daum (studio)\n\nDaum is a crystal studio based in Nancy, France, founded in 1878 by (1825–1885). His sons, Auguste Daum (1853–1909) and (1864–1931), oversaw its growth during the burgeoning Art Nouveau period. Currently Daum is the only commercial crystal manufacturer employing the pâte de verre (glass paste) process for art glass and crystal sculptures, a technique in which crushed glass is packed into a refractory mould and then fused in a kiln.\n\nThe Daum family worked at the beginning of Art Nouveau and creators of one of France's greatest glassworks. Established at the end of the 19th century, Daum’s renown was originally linked to the and the art of \"pâte-de-cristal\", a major contributing factor in terms of its worldwide reputation.\n\nDuring the Universal Exhibition of 1900 Daum was awarded a ‘Grand Prix’ medal. Daum glass became more elaborate, acid etching (by Jacques Gruber) was often combined with carving, enamelling and engraving on a single piece of glass to produce creative glass master-pieces. The most complicated creations also feature applied glass elements, such as handles and ornamental motifs in naturalistic forms. The Daum brothers quickly moved on to become one of the major forces in the Art Nouveau movement, seriously rivalling Gallé, so much so that when Émile Gallé died in 1904 they became the leaders in the field of decorative glass.\n\nIn 1906 Daum revived pâte de verre (glass paste), an ancient Egyptian method of glass casting, developing the method so that by the 1930s Daum's window panels used pâte de verre for richness instead of leaded or painted glass. Today Daum still used this method to produce their pieces.\n\nDaum has always been linked with the city of Nancy. Its main manufacture locations are in downtown of Nancy and a nearby village called Vannes-le-Châtel. All the pieces are still handmade by hundreds of employees in the region.\n\nDaum has a store at Place Stanislas in Nancy.\n\nMore than 600 glasswork items are in the Daum Collection at the Museum of Fine Arts of Nancy (Nancy Musée des Beaux-Arts) that document the history of glass manufacturing from the 1880s through the 1990s.\n\nAfter this world known era of Art Nouveau, DAUM has worked with hundreds of artists and designers to update new collections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33033881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33033881", "title": "Dorothy Y. Ko", "text": "Dorothy Y. Ko\n\nDorothy Ko (; born 1957) is a Professor of History and Women's Studies at the Barnard College of Columbia University. She is a historian of early modern China, known for her multi-disciplinary and multi-dimensional research. As a historian of early modern China, she has endeavored to engage with the field of modern China studies; as a China scholar, she has always positioned herself within the study of women and gender and applied feminist approaches in her work; as a historian, she has ventured across disciplinary boundaries, into fields that include literature, visual and material culture, science and technology, as well as studies of fashion, the body and sexuality.\n\nPrior to joining the faculty of Barnard and Columbia, Ko has taught at the University of California, San Diego and at Rutgers University. Ko's research has been supported by the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the Institute for Advanced Study, Princeton, among others.\n\nKo received secondary education at the Queen Elizabeth School, Hong Kong. She pursued university and doctoral education at Stanford University, where she received the B.A., M.A., and PhD degrees.\n\nShe is the author of several books:,\n\nAnother book, with the title “Women and Confucian cultures in pre-modern China, Korea, and Japan,\" is co-edited by Dorothy Ko, JaHyun Kim Haboush, and Joan R. Piggott (University of California Press, 2003)\n\n"}
{"id": "3907977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3907977", "title": "Dutch Golden Age painting", "text": "Dutch Golden Age painting\n\nDutch Golden Age painting is the painting of the Dutch Golden Age, a period in Dutch history roughly spanning the 17th century, during and after the later part of the Eighty Years' War (1568–1648) for Dutch independence.\n\nThe new Dutch Republic was the most prosperous nation in Europe and led European trade, science, and art. The northern Netherlandish provinces that made up the new state had traditionally been less important artistic centres than cities in Flanders in the south. The upheavals and large-scale transfers of population of the war, and the sharp break with the old monarchist and Catholic cultural traditions, meant that Dutch art had to reinvent itself. The painting of religious subjects declined sharply, but a large new market for all kinds of secular subjects grew up.\n\nAlthough Dutch painting of the Golden Age is included in the general European period of Baroque painting, and often shows many of its characteristics, most lacks the idealization and love of splendour typical of much Baroque work, including that of neighbouring Flanders. Most work, including that for which the period is best known, reflects the traditions of detailed realism inherited from Early Netherlandish painting.\nA distinctive feature of the period is the proliferation of distinct genres of paintings, with the majority of artists producing the bulk of their work within one of these. The full development of this specialization is seen from the late 1620s, and the period from then until the French invasion of 1672 is the core of Golden Age painting. Artists would spend most of their careers painting only portraits, genre scenes, landscapes, seascapes and ships, or still lifes, and often a particular sub-type within these categories. Many of these types of subject were new in Western painting, and the way the Dutch painted them in this period was decisive for their future development.\n\nA distinctive feature of the period, compared to earlier European painting, was the limited number of religious paintings. Dutch Calvinism forbade religious paintings in churches, and though biblical subjects were acceptable in private homes, relatively few were produced. The other traditional classes of history and portrait painting were present, but the period is more notable for a huge variety of other genres, sub-divided into numerous specialized categories, such as scenes of peasant life, landscapes, townscapes, landscapes with animals, maritime paintings, flower paintings and still lifes of various types. The development of many of these types of painting was decisively influenced by 17th-century Dutch artists.\n\nThe widely held theory of the \"hierarchy of genres\" in painting, whereby some types were regarded as more prestigious than others, led many painters to want to produce history painting. However this was the hardest to sell, as even Rembrandt found. Many were forced to produce portraits or genre scenes, which sold much more easily. In descending order of status, the categories in the hierarchy were:\n\nThe Dutch concentrated heavily on the \"lower\" categories, but by no means rejected the concept of the hierarchy. Most paintings were relatively small – the only common type of really large paintings were group portraits. Painting directly onto walls hardly existed; when a wall-space in a public building needed decorating, fitted framed canvas was normally used. For the extra precision possible on a hard surface, many painters continued to use wooden panels, some time after the rest of Western Europe had abandoned them; some used copper plates, usually recycling plates from printmaking. In turn, the number of surviving Golden Age paintings was reduced by them being overpainted with new works by artists throughout the 18th and 19th century – poor ones were usually cheaper than a new canvas, stretcher and frame. \n\nThere was very little Dutch sculpture during the period; it is mostly found in tomb monuments and attached to public buildings, and small sculptures for houses are a noticeable gap, their place taken by silverware and ceramics. Painted delftware tiles were very cheap and common, if rarely of really high quality, but silver, especially in the auricular style, led Europe. With this exception, the best artistic efforts were concentrated on painting and printmaking.\n\nForeigners remarked on the enormous quantities of art produced and the large fairs where many paintings were sold – it has been roughly estimated that over 1.3 million Dutch pictures were painted in the 20 years after 1640 alone. The volume of production meant that prices were fairly low, except for the best known artists; as in most subsequent periods, there was a steep price gradient for more fashionable artists. Those without a strong contemporary reputation, or who had fallen out of fashion, including many now considered among the greatest of the period, such as Vermeer, Frans Hals and Rembrandt in his last years, had considerable problems earning a living, and died poor; many artists had other jobs, or abandoned art entirely. In particular the French invasion of 1672 (the \"Rampjaar\", or \"year of disaster\"), brought a severe depression to the art market, which never quite returned to earlier heights.\n\nThe distribution of pictures was very wide: \"yea many tymes, blacksmithes, cobblers etts., will have some picture or other by their Forge and in their stalle. Such is the generall Notion, enclination and delight that these Countrie Native have to Painting\" reported an English traveller in 1640. There were for virtually the first time many professional art dealers, several also significant artists, like Vermeer and his father, Jan van Goyen and Willem Kalf. Rembrandt's dealer Hendrick van Uylenburgh and his son Gerrit were among the most important. Landscapes were the easiest uncommissioned works to sell, and their painters were the \"common footmen in the Army of Art\" according to Samuel van Hoogstraten.\n\nThe technical quality of Dutch artists was generally high, still mostly following the old medieval system of training by apprenticeship with a master. Typically workshops were smaller than in Flanders or Italy, with only one or two apprentices at a time, the number often being restricted by guild regulations. The turmoil of the early years of the Republic, with displaced artists from the South moving north and the loss of traditional markets in the court and church, led to a resurgence of artists guilds, often still called the Guild of Saint Luke. In many cases these involved the artists extricating themselves from medieval groupings where they shared a guild with several other trades, such as housepainting. Several new guilds were established in the period: Amsterdam in 1579, Haarlem in 1590, and Gouda, Rotterdam, Utrecht and Delft between 1609 and 1611. The Leiden authorities distrusted guilds and did not allow one until 1648.\n\nLater in the century it began to become clear to all involved that the old idea of a guild controlling both training and sales no long worked well, and gradually the guilds were replaced with academies, often only concerned with the training of artists. The Hague, with the court, was an early example, where artists split into two groups in 1656 with the founding of the Confrerie Pictura. With the obvious exception of portraits, many more Dutch paintings were done \"speculatively\" without a specific commission than was then the case in other countries – one of many ways in which the Dutch art market showed the future.\n\nThere were many dynasties of artists, and many married the daughters of their masters or other artists. Many artists came from well-off families, who paid fees for their apprenticeships, and they often married into property. Rembrandt and Jan Steen were both enrolled at the University of Leiden for a while. Several cities had distinct styles and specialities by subject, but Amsterdam was the largest artistic centre, because of its great wealth. Cities such as Haarlem and Utrecht were more important in the first half of the century, with Leiden and other cities emerging after 1648, and above all Amsterdam, which increasingly drew to it artists from the rest of the Netherlands, as well as Flanders and Germany.\n\nDutch artists were strikingly less concerned about artistic theory than those of many nations, and less given to discussing their art; it appears that there was also much less interest in artistic theory in general intellectual circles and among the wider public than was by then common in Italy. As nearly all commissions and sales were private, and between bourgeois individuals whose accounts have not been preserved, these are also less well documented than elsewhere. But Dutch art was a source of national pride, and the major biographers are crucial sources of information. These are Karel van Mander (Het Schilderboeck, 1604), who essentially covers the previous century, and Arnold Houbraken (\"De groote schouburgh der Nederlantsche konstschilders en schilderessen\" – \"The Great Theatre of Dutch Painters\", 1718–21). Both followed, and indeed exceeded, Vasari in including a great number of short lives of artists – over 500 in Houbraken's case – and both are considered generally accurate on factual matters.\n\nThe German artist Joachim von Sandrart (1606–1688) had worked for periods in Holland, and his \"Deutsche Akademie\" in the same format covers many Dutch artists he knew. Houbraken's master, and Rembrandt's pupil, was Samuel van Hoogstraten (1627–1678), whose \"Zichtbare wereld\" and \"Inleyding tot de Hooge Schoole der Schilderkonst\" (1678) contain more critical than biographical information, and are among the most important treatises on painting of the period. Like other Dutch works on the theory of art, they expound many commonplaces of Renaissance theory and do not entirely reflect contemporary Dutch art, still often concentrating on history painting.\n\nThis category comprises not only paintings that depicted historical events of the past, but also paintings that showed biblical, mythological, literary and allegorical scenes. Recent historical events essentially fell out of the category, and were treated in a realist fashion, as the appropriate combination of portraits with marine, townscape or landscape subjects. Large dramatic historical or Biblical scenes were produced less frequently than in other countries, as there was no local market for church art, and few large aristocratic Baroque houses to fill. More than that, the Protestant population of major cities had been exposed to some remarkably hypocritical uses of Mannerist allegory in unsuccessful Habsburg propaganda during the Dutch Revolt, which had produced a strong reaction towards realism and a distrust of grandiose visual rhetoric. History painting was now a \"minority art\", although to an extent this was redressed by a relatively keen interest in print versions of history subjects\n\nMore than in other types of painting, Dutch history painters continued to be influenced by Italian painting. Prints and copies of Italian masterpieces circulated and suggested certain compositional schemes. The growing Dutch skill in the depiction of light was brought to bear on styles derived from Italy, notably that of Caravaggio. Some Dutch painters also travelled to Italy, though this was less common than with their Flemish contemporaries, as can be seen from the membership of the Bentvueghels club in Rome.\n\nIn the early part of the century many Northern Mannerist artists with styles formed in the previous century continued to work, until the 1630s in the cases of Abraham Bloemaert and Joachim Wtewael. Many history paintings were small in scale, with the German painter (based in Rome) Adam Elsheimer as much an influence as Caravaggio (both died in 1610) on Dutch painters like Pieter Lastman, Rembrandt's master, and Jan and Jacob Pynas. Compared to Baroque history painting from other countries, they shared the Dutch emphasis on realism, and narrative directness, and are sometimes known as the \"Pre-Rembrandtists\", as Rembrandt's early paintings were in this style.\n\nUtrecht Caravaggism describes a group of artists who produced both history painting and generally large genre scenes in an Italian-influenced style, often making heavy use of chiaroscuro. Utrecht, before the revolt the most important city in the new Dutch territory, was an unusual Dutch city, still about 40% Catholic in the mid-century, even more among the elite groups, who included many rural nobility and gentry with town houses there. The leading artists were Hendrick ter Brugghen, Gerard van Honthorst and Dirck van Baburen, and the school was active about 1630, although van Honthorst continued until the 1650s as a successful court painter to the English, Dutch and Danish courts in a more classical style.\n\nRembrandt began as a history painter before finding financial success as a portraitist, and he never relinquished his ambitions in this area. A great number of his etchings are of narrative religious scenes, and the story of his last history commission, \"The Conspiracy of Claudius Civilis\" (1661) illustrates both his commitment to the form and the difficulties he had in finding an audience. Several artists, many his pupils, attempted with some success to continue his very personal style; Govaert Flinck was the most successful. Gerard de Lairesse (1640–1711) was another of these, before falling under heavy influence from French classicism, and becoming its leading Dutch proponent as both artist and theoretician.\n\nNudity was effectively the preserve of the history painter, although many portraitists dressed up their occasional nudes (nearly always female) with a classical title, as Rembrandt did. For all their uninhibited suggestiveness, genre painters rarely revealed more than a generous cleavage or stretch of thigh, usually when painting prostitutes or \"Italian\" peasants.\n\nPortrait painting thrived in the Netherlands in the 17th century, as there was a large mercantile class who were far more ready to commission portraits than their equivalents in other countries; a summary of various estimates of total production arrives at between 750,000 and 1,100,000 portraits. Rembrandt enjoyed his greatest period of financial success as a young Amsterdam portraitist, but like other artists, grew rather bored with painting commissioned portraits of burghers: \"artists travel along this road without delight\", according to van Mander.\n\nWhile Dutch portrait painting avoids the swagger and excessive rhetoric of the aristocratic Baroque portraiture current in the rest of 17th-century Europe, the sombre clothing of male and in many cases female sitters, and the Calvinist feeling that the inclusion of props, possessions or views of land in the background would show the sin of pride leads to an undeniable sameness in many Dutch portraits, for all their technical quality. Even a standing pose is usually avoided, as a full-length might also show pride. Poses are undemonstrative, especially for women, though children may be allowed more freedom. The classic moment for having a portrait painted was upon marriage, when the new husband and wife more often than not occupied separate frames in a pair of paintings. Rembrandt's later portraits compel by force of characterization, and sometimes a narrative element, but even his early portraits can be dispiriting \"en masse\", as in the roomful of 'starter Rembrandts' donated to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York.\n\nThe other great portraitist of the period is Frans Hals, whose famously lively brushwork and ability to show sitters looking relaxed and cheerful adds excitement to even the most unpromising subjects. The extremely \"nonchalant pose\" of his portrait of Willem Heythuijsen is exceptional: \"no other portrait from this period is so informal\". The sitter was a wealthy textile merchant who had already commissioned Hals' only individual life-sized full-length portrait ten years before. In this much smaller work for a private chamber he wears riding clothes. Jan de Bray encouraged his sitters to pose costumed as figures from classical history, but many of his works are of his own family. Thomas de Keyser, Bartholomeus van der Helst, Ferdinand Bol and others, including many mentioned below as history or genre painters, did their best to enliven more conventional works. Portraiture, less affected by fashion than other types of painting, remained the safe fallback for Dutch artists.\n\nFrom what little we know of the studio procedures of artists, it seems that, as elsewhere in Europe, the face was probably drawn and perhaps painted at an initial sitting or two. The typical number of further sittings is unclear - between zero (for a Rembrandt full-length) and 50 appear documented. The clothes were left at the studio and might well be painted by assistants, or a brought-in specialist master, although, or because, they were regarded as a very important part of the painting. Married and never-married women can be distinguished by their dress, highlighting how few single women were painted, except in family groups. As elsewhere, the accuracy of the clothes shown is variable - striped and patterned clothes were worn, but artists rarely show them, understandably avoiding the extra work. Lace and ruff collars were unavoidable, and presented a formidable challenge to painters intent on realism. Rembrandt evolved a more effective way of painting patterned lace, laying in broad white stokes, and then painting lightly in black to show the pattern. Another way of doing this was to paint in white over a black layer, and scratch off the white with the end of the brush to show the pattern.\n\nAt the end of the century there was a fashion for showing sitters in a semi-fancy dress, begun in England by van Dyck in the 1630s, known as \"picturesque\" or \"Roman\" dress. Aristocratic, and militia, sitters allowed themselves more freedom in bright dress and expansive settings than burghers, and religious affiliations probably affected many depictions. By the end of the century aristocratic, or French, values were spreading among the burghers, and depictions were allowed more freedom and display.\n\nA distinctive type of painting, combining elements of the portrait, history, and genre painting was the tronie. This was usually a half-length of a single figure which concentrated on capturing an unusual mood or expression. The actual identity of the model was not supposed to be important, but they might represent a historical figure and be in exotic or historic costume. Jan Lievens and Rembrandt, many of whose self-portraits are also tronies (especially his etched ones), were among those who developed the genre.\n\nFamily portraits tended, as in Flanders, to be set outdoors in gardens, but without an extensive view as later in England, and to be relatively informal in dress and mood. Group portraits, largely a Dutch invention, were popular among the large numbers of civic associations that were a notable part of Dutch life, such as the officers of a city's schutterij or militia guards, boards of trustees and regents of guilds and charitable foundations and the like. Especially in the first half of the century, portraits were very formal and stiff in composition. Groups were often seated around a table, each person looking at the viewer. Much attention was paid to fine details in clothing, and where applicable, to furniture and other signs of a person's position in society. Later in the century groups became livelier and colours brighter. Rembrandt's \"Syndics of the Drapers' Guild\" is a subtle treatment of a group round a table.\n\nScientists often posed with instruments and objects of their study around them. Physicians sometimes posed together around a cadaver, a so-called 'Anatomical Lesson', the most famous one being Rembrandt's \"Anatomy Lesson of Dr. Nicolaes Tulp\" (1632, Mauritshuis, The Hague). Boards of trustees in their \"regentenstuk\" portraits preferred an image of austerity and humility, posing in dark clothing (which by its refinement testified to their prominent standing in society), often seated around a table, with solemn expressions on their faces.\n\nMost militia group portraits were commissioned in Haarlem and Amsterdam, and were much more flamboyant and relaxed or even boisterous than other types of portraits, as well as much larger. Early examples showed them dining, but later groups showed most figures standing for a more dynamic composition. Rembrandt's famous \"The Militia Company of Captain Frans Banning Cocq\" better known as the \"Night Watch\" (1642), was an ambitious and not entirely successful attempt to show a group in action, setting out for a patrol or parade, also innovative in avoiding the typical very wide format of such works.\n\nThe cost of group portraits was usually shared by the subjects, often not equally. The amount paid might determine each person's place in the picture, either head to toe in full regalia in the foreground or face only in the back of the group. Sometimes all group members paid an equal sum, which was likely to lead to quarrels when some members gained a more prominent place in the picture than others. In Amsterdam most of these paintings would ultimately end up in the possession of the city council, and many are now on display in the Amsterdams Historisch Museum; there are no significant examples outside the Netherlands.\n\nGenre paintings show scenes that prominently feature figures to whom no specific identity can be attached – they are not portraits or intended as historical figures. Together with landscape painting, the development and enormous popularity of genre painting is the most distinctive feature of Dutch painting in this period, although in this case they were also very popular in Flemish painting. Many are single figures, like the Vermeer's \"The Milkmaid\"; others may show large groups at some social occasion, or crowds. There were a large number of sub-types within the genre: single figures, peasant families, tavern scenes, \"merry company\" parties, women at work about the house, scenes of village or town festivities (though these were still more common in Flemish painting), market scenes, barracks scenes, scenes with horses or farm animals, in snow, by moonlight, and many more. In fact most of these had specific terms in Dutch, but there was no overall Dutch term equivalent to \"genre painting\" – until the late 18th century the English often called them \"drolleries\". Some artists worked mostly within one of these sub-types, especially after about 1625. Over the course of the century, genre paintings tended to reduce in size.\n\nThough genre paintings provide many insights into the daily life of 17th-century citizens of all classes, their accuracy cannot always be taken for granted. Many which seemed only to depict everyday scenes actually illustrated Dutch proverbs and sayings or conveyed a moralistic message – the meaning of which may now need to be deciphered by art historians, though some are clear enough. Many artists, and no doubt purchasers, certainly tried to have things both ways, enjoying the depiction of disorderly households or brothel scenes, while providing a moral interpretation – the works of Jan Steen, whose other profession was as an innkeeper, are an example. The balance between these elements is still debated by art historians today.\n\nThe titles given later to paintings often distinguish between \"taverns\" or \"inns\" and \"brothels\", but in practice these were very often the same establishments, as many taverns had rooms above or behind set aside for sexual purposes: \"Inn in front; brothel behind\" was a Dutch proverb.\n\nThe Steen above is very clearly an \"exemplum\", and though each of the individual components of it is realistically depicted, the overall scene is not a plausible depiction of a real moment; typically of genre painting, it is a situation that is depicted, and satirized.\n\nThe Renaissance tradition of recondite emblem books had, in the hands of the 17th-century Dutch – almost universally literate in the vernacular, but mostly without education in the classics – turned into the popularist and highly moralistic works of Jacob Cats, Roemer Visscher, and others, often based in popular proverbs. The illustrations to these are often quoted directly in paintings, and since the start of the 20th century art historians have attached proverbs, sayings and mottoes to a great number of genre works. Another popular source of meaning is visual puns using the great number of Dutch slang terms in the sexual area: the vagina could be represented by a lute (\"luit\") or stocking (\"kous\"), and sex by a bird (\"vogelen\"), among many other options, and purely visual symbols such as shoes, spouts, and jugs and flagons on their side.\n\nThe same painters often painted works in a very different spirit of housewives or other women at rest in the home or at work – they massively outnumber similar treatments of men. In fact working class men going about their jobs are notably absent from Dutch Golden Age art, with landscapes populated by travellers and idlers but rarely tillers of the soil. Despite the Dutch Republic being the most important nation in international trade in Europe, and the abundance of marine paintings, scenes of dock workers and other commercial activities are very rare. This group of subjects was a Dutch invention, reflecting the cultural preoccupations of the age, and was to be adopted by artists from other countries, especially France, in the two centuries following.\n\nThe tradition developed from the realism and detailed background activity of Early Netherlandish painting, which Hieronymus Bosch and Pieter Bruegel the Elder were among the first to turn into their principal subjects, also making use of proverbs. The Haarlem painters Willem Pieterszoon Buytewech, Frans Hals and Esaias van de Velde were important painters early in the period. Buytewech painted \"merry companies\" of finely dressed young people, with moralistic significance lurking in the detail. \nVan de Velde was also important as a landscapist, whose scenes included unglamorous figures very different from those in his genre paintings, which were typically set at garden parties in country houses. Hals was principally a portraitist, but also painted genre figures of a portrait size early in his career.\n\nA stay in Haarlem by the Flemish master of peasant tavern scenes Adriaen Brouwer, from 1625 or 1626, gave Adriaen van Ostade his lifelong subject, though he often took a more sentimental approach. Before Brouwer, peasants had normally been depicted outdoors; he usually shows them in a plain and dim interior, though van Ostade's sometimes occupy ostentatiously decrepit farmhouses of enormous size.\n\nVan Ostade was as likely to paint a single figure as a group, as were the Utrecht Caravaggisti in their genre works, and the single figure, or small groups of two or three became increasingly common, especially those including women and children. The most notable woman artist of the period, Judith Leyster (1609–1660), specialized in these, before her husband, Jan Miense Molenaer, prevailed on her to give up painting. The Leiden school of \"fijnschilder\" (\"fine painters\") were renowned for small and highly finished paintings, many of this type. Leading artists included Gerard Dou, Gabriel Metsu, Frans van Mieris the Elder, and later his son Willem van Mieris, Godfried Schalcken, and Adriaen van der Werff.\n\nThis later generation, whose work now seems over-refined compared to their predecessors, also painted portraits and histories, and were the most highly regarded and rewarded Dutch painters by the end of the period, whose works were sought after all over Europe. Genre paintings reflected the increasing prosperity of Dutch society, and settings grew steadily more comfortable, opulent and carefully depicted as the century progressed. Artists not part of the Leiden group whose common subjects also were more intimate genre groups included Nicolaes Maes, Gerard ter Borch and Pieter de Hooch, whose interest in light in interior scenes was shared with Jan Vermeer, long a very obscure figure, but now the most highly regarded genre painter of all.\n\nLandscape painting was a major genre in the 17th century. Flemish landscapes (particularly from Antwerp) of the 16th century first served as an example. These had been not particularly realistic, having been painted mostly in the studio, partly from imagination, and often still using the semi-aerial view from above typical of earlier Netherlandish landscape painting in the \"world landscape\" tradition of Joachim Patinir, Herri met de Bles and the early Pieter Bruegel the Elder. A more realistic Dutch landscape style developed, seen from ground level, often based on drawings made outdoors, with lower horizons which made it possible to emphasize the often impressive cloud formations that were (and are) so typical in the climate of the region, and which cast a particular light. Favourite subjects were the dunes along the western sea coast, rivers with their broad adjoining meadows where cattle grazed, often with the silhouette of a city in the distance. Winter landscapes with frozen canals and creeks also abounded. The sea was a favourite topic as well since the Low Countries depended on it for trade, battled with it for new land, and battled on it with competing nations.\n\nImportant early figures in the move to realism were Esaias van de Velde (1587–1630) and Hendrick Avercamp (1585–1634), both also mentioned above as genre painters – in Avercamp's case the same paintings deserve mention in each category. From the late 1620s the \"tonal phase\" of landscape painting started, as artists softened or blurred their outlines, and concentrated on an atmospheric effect, with great prominence given to the sky, and human figures usually either absent or small and distant. Compositions based on a diagonal across the picture space became popular, and water often featured. The leading artists were Jan van Goyen (1596–1656), Salomon van Ruysdael (1602–1670), Pieter de Molyn (1595–1661), and in marine painting Simon de Vlieger (1601–1653), with a host of minor figures – a recent study lists over 75 artists who worked in van Goyen's manner for at least a period, including Cuyp.\n\nFrom the 1650s the \"classical phase\" began, retaining the atmospheric quality, but with more expressive compositions and stronger contrasts of light and colour. Compositions are often anchored by a single \"heroic tree\", windmill or tower, or ship in marine works. The leading artist was Jacob van Ruisdael (1628–1682), who produced a great quantity and variety of work, using every typical Dutch subject except the Italianate landscape (below); instead he produced \"Nordic\" landscapes of dark and dramatic mountain pine forests with rushing torrents and waterfalls. \n\nHis pupil was Meindert Hobbema (1638–1709), best known for his atypical \"Avenue at Middelharnis\" (1689, London), a departure from his usual scenes of watermills and roads through woods. Two other artists with more personal styles, whose best work included larger pictures (up to a metre or more across), were Aelbert Cuyp (1620–1691) and Philips Koninck (1619–1688). Cuyp took golden Italian light and used it in evening scenes with a group of figures in the foreground and behind them a river and wide landscape. Koninck's best works are panoramic views, as from a hill, over wide flat farmlands, with a huge sky.\n\nA different type of landscape, produced throughout the tonal and classical phases, was the romantic Italianate landscape, typically in more mountainous settings than are found in the Netherlands, with golden light, and sometimes picturesque Mediterranean staffage and ruins. Not all the artists who specialized in these had visited Italy. Jan Both (d. 1652), who had been to Rome and worked with Claude Lorrain, was a leading developer of the subgenre, which influenced the work of many painters of landscapes with Dutch settings, such as Aelbert Cuyp. Other artists who consistently worked in the style were Nicolaes Berchem (1620–1683) and Adam Pijnacker. Italianate landscapes were popular as prints, and more paintings by Berchem were reproduced in engravings during the period itself than those of any other artist.\n\nA number of other artists do not fit in any of these groups, above all Rembrandt, whose relatively few painted landscapes show various influences, including some from Hercules Seghers (c. 1589–c. 1638); his very rare large mountain valley landscapes were a very personal development of 16th-century styles. Aert van der Neer (d. 1677) painted very small scenes of rivers at night or under ice and snow.\n\nLandscapes with animals in the foreground were a distinct sub-type, and were painted by Cuyp, Paulus Potter (1625–1654), Albert Jansz. Klomp (1625-1688), Adriaen van de Velde (1636–1672) and Karel Dujardin (1626–1678, farm animals), with Philips Wouwerman painting horses and riders in various settings. The cow was a symbol of prosperity to the Dutch, hitherto overlooked in art, and apart from the horse by far the most commonly shown animal; goats were used to indicate Italy. Potter's \"The Young Bull\" is an enormous and famous portrait which Napoleon took to Paris (it later returned) though livestock analysts have noted from the depiction of the various parts of the anatomy that it appears to be a composite of studies of six different animals of widely different ages.\nArchitecture also fascinated the Dutch, churches in particular. At the start of the period the main tradition was of fanciful palaces and city views of invented Northern Mannerist architecture, which Flemish painting continued to develop, and in Holland was represented by Dirck van Delen. A greater realism began to appear and the exteriors and interiors of actual buildings were reproduced, though not always faithfully. During the century understanding of the proper rendering of perspective grew and were enthusiastically applied. Several artists specialized in church interiors.\n\nPieter Jansz Saenredam, whose father Jan Saenredam engraved sensuous nude Mannerist goddesses, painted unpeopled views of now whitewashed Gothic city churches. His emphasis on even light and geometry, with little depiction of surface textures, is brought out by comparing his works with those of Emanuel de Witte, who left in the people, uneven floors, contrasts of light and such clutter of church furniture as remained in Calvinist churches, all usually ignored by Saenredam. Gerard Houckgeest, followed by van Witte and Hendrick van Vliet, had supplemented the traditional view along a main axis of the church with diagonal views that added drama and interest. \n\nGerrit Berckheyde specialized in lightly populated views of main city streets, squares, and major public buildings; Jan van der Heyden preferred more intimate scenes of quieter Amsterdam streets, often with trees and canals. These were real views, but he did not hesitate to adjust them for compositional effect.\n\nThe Dutch Republic relied on trade by sea for its exceptional wealth, had naval wars with Britain and other nations during the period, and was criss-crossed by rivers and canals. It is therefore no surprise that the genre of maritime painting was enormously popular, and taken to new heights in the period by Dutch artists; as with landscapes, the move from the artificial elevated view typical of earlier marine painting was a crucial step. Pictures of sea battles told the stories of a Dutch navy at the peak of its glory, though today it is usually the more tranquil scenes that are highly estimated. Ships are normally at sea, and dock scenes surprisingly absent.\n\nMore often than not, even small ships fly the Dutch tricolour, and many vessels can be identified as naval or one of the many other government ships. Many pictures included some land, with a beach or harbour viewpoint, or a view across an estuary. Other artists specialized in river scenes, from the small pictures of Salomon van Ruysdael with little boats and reed-banks to the large Italianate landscapes of Aelbert Cuyp, where the sun is usually setting over a wide river. The genre naturally shares much with landscape painting, and in developing the depiction of the sky the two went together; many landscape artists also painted beach and river scenes. Artists included Jan Porcellis, Simon de Vlieger, Jan van de Cappelle, Hendrick Dubbels and Abraham Storck. Willem van de Velde the Elder and his son are the leading masters of the later decades, tending, as at the beginning of the century, to make the ship the subject, whereas in tonal works of earlier decades the emphasis had been on the sea and the weather. They left for London in 1672, leaving the master of heavy seas, the German-born Ludolf Bakhuizen, as the leading artist.\n\nStill lifes were a great opportunity to display skill in painting textures and surfaces in great detail and with realistic light effects. Food of all kinds laid out on a table, silver cutlery, intricate patterns and subtle folds in table cloths and flowers all challenged painters.\n\nSeveral types of subject were recognised: \"banketje\" were \"banquet pieces\", \"ontbijtjes\" simpler \"breakfast pieces\". Virtually all still lifes had a moralistic message, usually concerning the brevity of life – this is known as the vanitas theme – implicit even in the absence of an obvious symbol like a skull, or less obvious one such as a half-peeled lemon (like life, sweet in appearance but bitter to taste). Flowers wilt and food decays, and silver is of no use to the soul. Nevertheless, the force of this message seems less powerful in the more elaborate pieces of the second half of the century.\n\nInitially the objects shown were nearly always mundane. However, from the mid-century \"pronkstillevens\" (\"ostentatious still lifes\"), which depicted expensive and exotic objects and had been developed as a subgenre in the 1640s in Antwerp by Flemish artists such as Frans Snyders and Adriaen van Utrecht, became more popular. The early realist, tonal and classical phases of landscape painting had counterparts in still life painting. Willem Claeszoon Heda (1595–c. 1680) and Willem Kalf (1619–1693) led the change to the \"pronkstilleven\", while Pieter Claesz (d. 1660) preferred to paint simpler \"ontbijt\" (\"breakfast pieces\"), or explicit \"vanitas\" pieces.\n\nIn all these painters, colours are often very muted, with browns dominating, especially in the middle of the century. This is less true of the works of Jan Davidsz de Heem (1606–1684), an important figure who spent much of his career based over the border in Antwerp. Here his displays began to sprawl sideways to form wide oblong pictures, unusual in the north, although Heda sometimes painted taller vertical compositions. Still life painters were especially prone to form dynasties, it seems: there were many de Heems and Bosschaerts, Heda's son continued in his father's style, and Claesz was the father of Nicholaes Berchem.\nFlower paintings formed a sub-group with its own specialists, and were occasionally the speciality of the few women artists, such as Maria van Oosterwyck and Rachel Ruysch. The Dutch also led the world in botanical and other scientific drawings, prints and book illustrations. Despite the intense realism of individual flowers, paintings were composed from individual studies or even book illustrations, and blooms from very different seasons were routinely included in the same composition, and the same flowers reappear in different works, just as pieces of tableware do. There was also a fundamental unreality in that bouquets of flowers in vases were not in fact at all common in houses at the time – even the very rich displayed flowers one by one in delftware tulip-holders.\n\nThe Dutch tradition was largely begun by Ambrosius Bosschaert (1573–1621), a Flemish-born flower painter who had settled in the north by the beginning of the period, and founded a dynasty. His brother-in-law Balthasar van der Ast (d. 1657) pioneered still lifes of shells, as well as painting flowers. These early works were relatively brightly lit, with the bouquets of flowers arranged in a relatively simple way. From the mid-century arrangements that can fairly be called Baroque, usually against a dark background, became more popular, exemplified by the works of Willem van Aelst (1627–1683). Painters from Leiden, The Hague, and Amsterdam particularly excelled in the genre.\n\nDead game, and birds painted live but studied from the dead, were another subgenre, as were dead fish, a staple of the Dutch diet – Abraham van Beijeren did many of these. The Dutch were less given to the Flemish style of combining large still life elements with other types of painting – they would have been considered prideful in portraits – and the Flemish habit of specialist painters collaborating on the different elements in the same work. But this sometimes did happen – Philips Wouwerman was occasionally used to add men and horses to turn a landscape into a hunting or skirmish scene, Berchem or Adriaen van de Velde to add people or farm animals.\n\nFor Dutch artists, Karel van Mander's \"Schilderboeck\" was meant not only as a list of biographies, but also a source of advice for young artists. It quickly became a classic standard work for generations of young Dutch and Flemish artists in the 17th century. The book advised artists to travel and see the sights of Florence and Rome, and after 1604 many did so. However, it is noticeable that the most important Dutch artists in all fields, figures such as Rembrandt, Vermeer, Hals, Steen, Jacob van Ruisdael, and others, did not make the voyage.\n\nMany Dutch (and Flemish) painters worked abroad or exported their work; printmaking was also an important export market, by which Rembrandt became known across Europe. The Dutch Gift to Charles II of England was a diplomatic gift which included four contemporary Dutch paintings. English painting was heavily reliant on Dutch painters, with Sir Peter Lely followed by Sir Godfrey Kneller, developing the English portrait style established by the Flemish Anthony van Dyck before the English Civil War. The marine painters van der Velde, father and son, were among several artists who left Holland at the French invasion of 1672, which brought a collapse in the art market. They also moved to London, and the beginnings of English landscape painting were established by several less distinguished Dutch painters, such as Hendrick Danckerts.\n\nThe Bamboccianti were a colony of Dutch artists who introduced the genre scene to Italy. Jan Weenix and Melchior d'Hondecoeter specialized in game and birds, dead or alive, and were in demand for country house and shooting-lodge overdoors across Northern Europe. \n\nAlthough the Dutch control of the northeast sugar-producing region of Dutch Brazil turned out to be brief (1630-54), Governor Johan Maurits van Nassau-Siegen invited Dutch artists to paint scenes which are valuable in showing the seventeenth-century landscape and peoples of the region. The two most well known of these artists were Frans Post, a landscapist, and a still life painter, Albert Eckhout, who produced ethnographic paintings of Brazil's population. These were originally displayed in the Great Hall of the Vrijburg Palace in Recife. There was a market in Amsterdam for such paintings, and Post continued to produce Brazilian scenes for years after his return to the Netherlands. The Dutch East Indies were covered much less well artistically.\n\nThe enormous success of 17th-century Dutch painting overpowered the work of subsequent generations, and no Dutch painter of the 18th century—nor, arguably, a 19th-century one before Van Gogh—is well known outside the Netherlands. Already by the end of the period artists were complaining that buyers were more interested in dead than living artists.\n\nIf only because of the enormous quantities produced, Dutch Golden Age painting has always formed a significant part of collections of Old Master paintings, itself a term invented in the 18th century to describe Dutch Golden Age artists. Taking only Wouwerman paintings in old royal collections, there are more than 60 in Dresden and over 50 in the Hermitage. But the reputation of the period has shown many changes and shifts of emphasis. One nearly constant factor has been admiration for Rembrandt, especially since the Romantic period. Other artists have shown drastic shifts in critical fortune and market price; at the end of the period some of the active Leiden fijnschilders had enormous reputations, but since the mid-19th century realist works in various genres have been far more appreciated.\n\nVermeer was rescued from near-total obscurity in the 19th century, by which time several of his works had been re-attributed to others. However the fact that so many of his works were already in major collections, often attributed to other artists, demonstrates that the quality of individual paintings was recognised even if his collective oeuvre was unknown. Other artists have continued to be rescued from the mass of little known painters: the late and very simple still lifes of Adriaen Coorte in the 1950s, and the landscapists Jacobus Mancaden and Frans Post earlier in the century.\n\nGenre paintings were long popular, but little-regarded. In 1780 Horace Walpole disapproved that they \"invite laughter to divert itself with the nastiest indelicacy of boors\". Sir Joshua Reynolds, the English leader of 18th-century academic art, made several revealing comments on Dutch art. He was impressed by the quality of Vermeer's \"Milkmaid\" (illustrated at the start of this article), and the liveliness of Hals' portraits, regretting he lacked the \"patience\" to finish them properly, and lamented that Steen had not been born in Italy and formed by the High Renaissance, so that his talent could have been put to better use. By Reynold's time the moralist aspect of genre painting was no longer understood, even in the Netherlands; the famous example is the so-called \"Paternal Admonition\", as it was then known, by Gerard ter Borch. This was praised by Goethe and others for the delicacy of its depiction of a father reprimanding his daughter. In fact to most (but not all) modern scholars it is a proposition scene in a brothel – there are two versions (Berlin & Amsterdam) and it is unclear whether a \"tell-tale coin\" in the man's hand has been removed or overpainted in either.\n\nIn the second half of the 18th century, the down to earth realism of Dutch painting was a \"Whig taste\" in England, and in France associated with Enlightenment rationalism and aspirations for political reform. In the 19th century, with a near-universal respect for realism, and the final decline of the hierarchy of genres, contemporary painters began to borrow from genre painters both their realism and their use of objects for narrative purposes, and paint similar subjects themselves, with all the genres the Dutch had pioneered appearing on far larger canvases (still lifes excepted).\n\nIn landscape painting, the Italianate artists were the most influential and highly regarded in the 18th century, but John Constable was among those Romantics who denounced them for artificiality, preferring the tonal and classical artists. In fact both groups remained influential and popular in the 19th century.\n\n\nFor more details and many more painters see Dutch Golden Age, List Of People – Painters and List of Dutch painters. MacLaren is the main source for biographical details.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "672797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=672797", "title": "Egypt Exploration Society", "text": "Egypt Exploration Society\n\nThe Egypt Exploration Society (EES) is a British non-profit organization. The society was founded in 1882 by Amelia Edwards and Reginald Stuart Poole in order to examine and excavate in the areas of Egypt and Sudan. The intent was to study and analyze the results of the excavations and publish the information for the scholarly world. The EES have worked at many major Egyptian excavation and sites. Their discoveries include the discovery of a shrine for the goddess Hathor, a statue of a cow from Deir el-Bahri, the mortuary temple of Queen Hatshepsut, and the sculpted model of Nefertiti from Amarna. The Society has made major contributions to the study of the ancient Egyptian world. The Society is based in London and is a registered charity under English law.\n\nIn 1873, the English writer Amelia Edwards was led to the sites of Egypt while encountering cold, wet climates in Europe. She and several friends ended up traveling up the Nile River from Cairo to Abu Simbel. She recorded the events and discoveries of this journey and eventually published it as \"A Thousand Miles up the Nile\" in 1876. The book became renowned for its description of 19th century Egypt and the largely un-excavated antiques that she encountered. Edwards's descriptions changed the world's perspective on both moderns and Ancient Egypt. This attracted the attention of both scholarly society and the rest of the world. It ended up becoming a bestseller due to this increased interest, which prompted Edwards to think about continuing her studies of Ancient Egypt. In 1882, Amelia Edwards and Reginald Stuart Poole, an employee from the Department of Coins and Medals at the British Museum, decided to create the Egypt Exploration Fund as a way to raise funds for more excavations in the Delta, which had been noted as being rarely visited. After announcing their intentions in \"The Times\", they started off being funded by individuals such as the Archbishop of Canterbury. the poet Robert Browning and Sir Erasmus Wilson. Wilson, in particular, showed enough interest to pledge £500 to the Egypt Exploration Fund. This marked the start of the Egypt Exploration Society. \n\nThe first excavator of the Egypt Exploration Fund was Edouard Naville, a Swiss Egyptologist and Biblical scholar. In January 1883, Naville set out for Tell el-Maskhuta. His goal was to find the route of the Biblical exodus as the Fund had decided to broaden its interests in order to appeal to a wider audience. Naville's work attracted much interest from the public and at the first General Meeting of the Fund, which happened on 3 July 1883, the society was seen to have a good amount of funds in its accounts. A copy of Naville's work was distributed to the subscribers of the Fund. Eventually the Fund decided to have the subscribers become members instead.\n\nDuring the second excavation, the Fund sent Flinders Petrie, an English Egyptologist, who went to Tanis, a site linked to the Biblical city of Zoan. Petrie focussed much of his work on the ordinary dwellings of the site. This presented a new array of discoveries for the society. Petrie was among the first to understand that there was more than aesthetically appealing objects. Rather, he understood that many objects could provide information about the society of that time. He developed many techniques in which he could excavate and record the objects he found and his overall findings. At the end of his excavation, Petrie was able to bring back many valuable findings and items that he donated to the British Museum. The society became one of the first to provide scientifically excavated objects around Britain as well as overseas.\n\nBy the time of the third excavation, and the third year since the Fund was established, the society was able to send Edouard Naville, Flinders Petrie and Francis Llewellyn Griffith to Egypt. During this time and for the next few years, the Fund was able to bring back many findings, which resulted in the advancement of knowledge on Ancient Egypt. Some of the sites included the fortified camp and Tell Dafana and the temple of Bastet.\n\nIn 1919, at the end of the First World War, the Egypt Excavation Fund changed its name to the Egypt Exploration Society. Today, the EES continues to publish its annual organ, the \"Journal of Egyptian Archaeology\", which details the society's findings, for all of its members to read. They also publish a newsletter bi-annually called \"Egyptian Archaeology\". The Egypt Exploration Society has been based in Doughty Mews, London WC1N since 1969.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39146605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39146605", "title": "Enveri", "text": "Enveri\n\nEnveri (d. 1512?) was a 15th-century Ottoman poet and historian. He wrote a famous Ottoman history in the Ottoman Turkish language named \"Dusturname\", the Constitutional Book (for Ottoman History). His work consists of 3730 verses and is based on three parts: the first is a universal Islamic history, the second, which he is famous for, about the Aydinids, and the third (842 verses) about the Ottomans. Not much is known about his personal life.\n"}
{"id": "6330034", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6330034", "title": "Eutychius of Alexandria", "text": "Eutychius of Alexandria\n\nEutychius of Alexandria (Arabic: \"Sa'id ibn Batriq\" or \"Bitriq\"; 10 September 877 – 12 May 940) was the Melkite Patriarch of Alexandria. He is known for being one of the first Christian Egyptian writers to use the Arabic language. His writings include the chronicle \"Nazm al-Jauhar\" (\"Row of Jewels\"), also known by its Latin title \"Eutychii Annales\" (\"The Annals of Eutychius\").\n\nHe was born in Fustat (old Cairo). Eutychius spent much of his life as a medical practitioner or \"Mutatabbib\". His life was roughly contemporary with Agapius the historian, although neither displays knowledge of the other.\n\nHe did not know Greek, but was able to access Greek texts in existing Syriac translations.\n\nIn 932 he became the Melkite Patriarch of Alexandria at the age of 60. Because he had never held any clerical office, his appointment met with considerable opposition, which lasted the remainder of his life. His appointment was probably due to the influence of the Moslem rulers.\n\nThe most important work is the \"Nazm al-Jauhar\", a world chronicle, which he began before becoming Patriarch, and dedicated to his brother. It begins with the Creation, and runs down to his own times. His \"Nazm al-Jauhar\" is a valuable source for events in Persia prior to the rise of Islam and the later Sassanid rulers. For events after the rise of Islam, Eutychius makes use of Moslem sources. He also drew on legendary and hagiographical material.\n\n\"Eutychii Annales\": CHAPTER II: ADVERSITIES OF THE CHURCH.: 1 Persecutions of the Christians.: ...The Christians suffered less in this than in the preceding centuries. ...In the East especially in Syria and Palestine the Jews sometimes rose upon the Christians with great violence (Eutychius, Annales tom ii., p. 236, &c. Jo. Henr. Hottinger, Historia Orientalis, lib. i., c. id., p. 129, &c.) yet so unsuccessfully as to suffer severely for their temerity. (Mosheim 1847, p. 426, at Google Books)\n\nThe history was adapted and continued to 1028 by Yahya ibn Sa'id, in which form it became known in Antioch and then Europe; but it continued to be expanded, and to circulate in this modified form. Numerous copies were made. However the autograph was recently located at Mount Sinai (\"Sinaiticus Arabicus\" 582). The start and end of the manuscript are missing, but can be reconstructed from copies.\n\nOther works are a book on medicine and an apologetic work. A manuscript of the former has been located in Aleppo, although not published. The latter text has not been found as yet.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "322163", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=322163", "title": "Expropriation", "text": "Expropriation\n\nThe process of expropriation \"occurs when a public agency (for example, the provincial government and its agencies, regional districts, municipalities, school boards, post-secondary institutions and utilities) takes private property for a purpose deemed to be in the public interest\". Unlike eminent domain, expropriation may also refer to the taking of private property by a \"private\" entity authorized by a government to take property in certain situations.\n\nDue to political risks that are involved when countries engage in international business it is important to understand the expropriation risks and laws within each of the countries that business is conducted in order to understand the risks as an investor in that country.\n\nOne example of expropriation occurred between the United States and Mexico in 1938 when the Mexican president Lázaro Cárdenas signed an order that expropriated almost all of the foreign oil companies operating in Mexico. This initially turned out to have great negative consequences on the Mexican economy when their oil exports were boycotted by major oil companies, decreasing exports dramatically, but later on the economic benefits of this move became apparent, with the new national oil company PEMEX being an important contributor to the Mexican Miracle, and other countries soon followed with oil nationalisation carried out in much of Latin America and the developing world.\n\nThe term appears as \"expropriation of expropriators (ruling classes)\" in Marxist theory, and also as the slogan \"Loot the looters!\" (\"грабь награбленное\"), which was very popular during the Russian October Revolution. The term is also used to describe nationalization campaigns by communist states, such as dekulakization and collectivization in the USSR.\n\nThe term expropriation is found by late Marx writings, specifically in “Karl Marx: A letter to Otechestvenye Zapiski” to describe the process of turning agrarian/rural peasants into wage labourers/proletarians if the Russian country is to become a capitalist nation like that of the Western European nations.\n\n"}
{"id": "127154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=127154", "title": "Fetish fashion", "text": "Fetish fashion\n\nFetish fashion is any style or appearance in the form of a\ntype of clothing or accessory, created to be extreme or provocative in a fetishistic manner. These styles are not usually worn by the majority of people on any regular basis. They are usually made of materials such as leather, latex or synthetic rubber or plastic, nylon, PVC, spandex, fishnet, and stainless steel. Some fetish fashion items include: stiletto heel shoes and boots (most notably the ballet boot), hobble skirts, corsets, collars, full-body latex catsuits, stockings, miniskirt, crotchless underwear, garters, locks, rings, zippers, eyewear, handcuffs, and stylized costumes based on more traditional outfits, such as wedding dresses that are almost completely see-through lace. \nFetish fashions are sometimes confused with costuming, because both are usually understood to be clothing that is not worn as the usual wardrobe of people, and are instead worn to create a particular reaction.\n\nFetish fashions are usually considered to be separate from those clothing items used in cosplay, whereby these exotic fashions are specifically used as costuming to effect a certain situation rather than to be merely worn; such as the creation of a character for picture play. However, sometimes the two areas do overlap. For example, in Japan, many themed restaurants have waitresses who wear costumes such as a suit made of latex or a stylized French maid outfit.\n\nFetish fashion clothing is often modelled by specialist fetish models.\n\nSome type of garments that women wear to routinely improve their appearance are thought of as erotic and qualify as fetish wear: corsets and high heels. Most fetish wear is not practical enough for routine daily wear. An example of a fetish costume worn by women is the dominatrix costume. This typically consists of dark or black garments including a corset or bustier, stockings and high-heeled footwear such as thigh-high boots to enhance the dominating appearance. An accessory such as a whip or a riding crop is often carried.\n\nFetish fashion has no specific origin point because certain fashions that were appreciated specifically for themselves or worn as part of a specific subculture have been noted since the earliest days of clothing. Some scholars, like Michael Hayworth, argue that the use of corsetry and hobble skirts back in the late 18th century was the first mainstream note of fetish fashions, because the majority of society did not have access to these articles. These items were specifically appreciated for themselves (i.e. the person liked the woman wearing the corset rather than just the woman by herself).\n\nA leather subculture appeared amongst the underground gay community of London, England after World War II with gay men wearing items of leather clothing. This leather subculture later became more mainstream in the British 1960s due to the influence of rock musicians such as The Rolling Stones and The Who, and television performers such as Diana Rigg and Honor Blackman in \"The Avengers\", who wore full body leather catsuits and full limb-covering leather and latex gloves and boots.\n\nMany fashion designers incorporate elements of the fetish subculture into their creations or directly create products based on elements that are not accepted by the mainstream. Malcolm McLaren and Vivienne Westwood created several restrictive BDSM-inspired clothing items of punk fashion for the 1970s punk subculture; in particular bondage trousers, which connect the wearer's legs with straps. The more recent fetish clothing makers House of Harlot and Torture Garden Clothing, Breathless of London, Vex Latex Clothing and Madame S of California focus on using latex and leather as the base material for their creations, rather than as an accessory.\n\nFetish fashions became popularized in the United States during the 1950s through books and magazines such as \"Bizarre\" and many other underground publications. \"Skin Two\" is a contemporary fetish magazine covering many aspects of the worldwide fetish subculture. The name is a reference to fetish clothing as a second skin.\n\nFetish fashion has had an influence on mainstream fashion, both on and off the runway. Many well-known designers have used fetish wear as an inspiration, borrowing details and incorporating materials such as latex, PVC, lace, vinyl and patent leather. Such designers include Jonathan Saunders, Alexander McQueen, Christian Dior, Chanel and Nicholas Kirkwood. The Alexander McQueen Autumn/Winter 2016 ready-to-wear collection was influenced by fetish fashion, and the inspiration of materials and pieces such as harnesses and corsets can be seen on most of the looks.\n\nOther brands have been created specifically for the fetish clothing luxury market. Zana Bayne, a post-fetish leather brand based in New York City was founded by Zana Bayne in 2010. Their leather works combine a quality of craftsmanship with a novel use of S&M/punk-inspired harnesses, and their work has been worn by celebrities such as Beyoncé and Lady Gaga. Zana Bayne have also collaborated with other brands such as Marc Jacobs and Comme des Garçons. Todd Pendu began working with Zana Bayne when he was at Comme des Garçons, before becoming a full-time creative partner at Zana Bayne in 2012. Atsuko Kudo is another brand explicitly influenced by fetish fashion, who design and manufacture ladies wear made entirely in latex rubber.\n\nStreet fashion has also been influenced by fetish fashion. By late 2016 and through 2017 a number of fetish fashion elements had appeared in ready-to-wear and street wear around the world. This includes items such as chokers, fishnets, corsets, high-thigh boots; details such as straps, buckles, pierced ring hardware and chains; and materials like patent leather and vinyl.\n"}
{"id": "5432930", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5432930", "title": "Flörsheim am Main", "text": "Flörsheim am Main\n\nFlörsheim am Main is a town in the Main-Taunus district, in Hesse, Germany. It is situated on the right bank of the River Main, opposite Rüsselsheim, 12 km east of Mainz.\n\nFlörsheim has partnerships with:\n\n\n\nIn the fall the Flörsheimer Kerb is celebrated along the Main River. It was created in relation to the Kirchweihfest in the St. Gallus Church in Flörsheim. It is a small fair with a few rides and booths to eat.\n\nFurthermore, there is a weekend-long open-air concert once a year called Flörsheim Open Air. It is a little festival underneath the Main river's bridge that leads to Rüsselsheim. In 2007 it will be the 32nd festival.\n\nThere is also Flörsheims Carnival parade that goes through Flörsheim on Carnival Sunday. It attracts many thousands of spectators. In 2007 it attracted over 80,000 people.\n\nThe Fraport subsidiary Fraport Immobilienservice und -entwicklungs GmbH & Co. KG has its head office in Flörsheim am Main.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5401515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5401515", "title": "George Lincoln Burr", "text": "George Lincoln Burr\n\nGeorge Lincoln Burr (January 30, 1857 – June 27, 1938) was a U.S. historian, diplomat, author, and educator, best known as a Professor of History and Librarian at Cornell University, and as the closest collaborator of Andrew Dickson White, the first President of Cornell.\n\nBurr was born in Albany, New York and entered the Cortland Academy in 1869, where he first met Andrew Dickson White, who was guest speaker for its 50th anniversary. The financial Panic of 1873 wreaked havoc on his family's finances, and he was forced to leave school and seek employment at age 16. After a brief stint as a schoolmaster, he apprenticed as a printer of \"The Standard\" at Cortland. After 4 years, he had saved $200, sufficient for him to matriculate at Cornell in 1877. As a sophomore, Burr audited a course for seniors taught by White on the historical development of criminal law, and received permission to sit for the exam. Prof. White was so impressed by Burr's exam answers that he secretly appointed Burr as his examiner (i.e., grader) in history. White writes in his \"Autobiography,' \"Of course this was kept entirely secret; for had the Seniors known that I had entrusted their papers to the tender mercies of a Sophomore, they would probably have mobbed me.\"\n\nAfter his graduation in 1881, Burr accepted White's offer to serve as an instructor and examiner in modern history, and also as White's private secretary. This was the beginning of a literary partnership that lasted until White's death in 1918. Under White's tutelage, Burr developed into a scholar of medieval history. After traveling and studying in Switzerland, France, and Germany, Burr was appointed to the Cornell faculty in 1888. He was made Professor of Medieval History in 1892. In 1919, he was elected John Stambaugh Professor of History.\n\nAs the librarian of Andrew Dickson White's historical rare book collection from 1880 to 1922, Burr built Cornell's manuscript and rare book collections in the areas of witchcraft, the Reformation, and the French Revolution. His single most famous contribution in this area was his discovery in 1885, in the library at the University of Trier, of the Loos Manuscript (1592), one of the first books written in Germany against the witch trials of the late 16th century, and long believed destroyed by the Inquisition.\n\nThis discovery led Burr to abruptly leave his studies in Europe to return to New York with the manuscript. He never earned any higher degree beyond his A.B. from Cornell. (His higher degrees are all honorary ones: LL.D.s from the University of Wisconsin–Madison in 1904 and from Washington College in 1907, and a Litt.D. from Western Reserve, now Case Western, in 1905).\n\nStarting in 1869, and throughout his career, Professor White argued that history showed the negative outcomes resulting from any attempt on the part of religion to interfere with the progress of science. Burr was deeply influenced by White's views, and assisted him in editing a series of articles, published in \"Popular Science,\" covering all aspects of the debate. They published the two-volume \"A History of the Warfare of Science with Theology in Christendom\" (1896).\n\nIn addition to paying Burr for his assistance, White offered Burr credit on the title page, which Burr declined. Burr subsequently worked extensively on a revision of the work, which was never published. This response was typical of Burr. Although he felt a great deal of sympathy for White's project, Burr ultimately came to believe that the book did not accomplish what its title suggested; he re-titled the revised, second volume as the \"Warfare of Humanity.\" In 1904 he wrote to White, \n\nYour book has, of course, the defects of its qualities. Its looseness of citation and broadness of statement are but a part of that genial companionableness and largeness which are its charm. Its whole treatment suggests rather the conversation of a scholarly and widely experienced man of action than the closet of the bookworm.\n\nBurr's most noted contributions came from his teaching and service work. He served as co-editor of the \"American Historical Review\" from 1905–1915 with J. Franklin Jameson, was a member of the American Historical Association, and served as its President in 1916. He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1908. He served as historical consultant for the U. S. Commission appointed by U.S. President Grover Cleveland to settle a boundary dispute between Venezuela and British Guiana. The commission included two university presidents, Andrew Dickson White of Cornell and Daniel Coit Gilman of Johns Hopkins, and White suggested that Burr be appointed to research the history and geography of the disputed territory. This assignment took Burr to archives in The Hague and London. He was also sent thousands of pages from the Venezuelan government, and in the end, this effort occupied much of his time from 1896–1899. His friend and colleague J. Franklin Jameson pronounced the Venezuela Boundary Commission report \"as fine a piece of historical research and criticism as ever was buried in a government report.\"\n\nAt Cornell, Burr is most remembered as a teacher who took great pains to encourage his students. He dined frequently at the Cornell women's dining hall, to demonstrate his support for women's education and to encourage student interest in history. His biographer, Roland Bainton, credits Cornell in general and Burr in particular with producing historians who populated the history faculties at what were then the women's colleges of Vassar and Wellesley. He also identifies Burr as a key consultant to faculty at Stanford University (due to his friendship with and respect for David Starr Jordan) and the University of California in the vetting of candidates. Among the students in whom he took an interest were Jessie Fauset, Winifred (Sprague) Humphrey, and Charles A. Beard.\n\nStudents and colleagues who have explicitly acknowledged Burr's influence include: \n\nBurr married Cornell graduate Mattie Alexander Martin in August 1907. She died after giving birth in January 1909, as did their child.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13816480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13816480", "title": "George McJunkin", "text": "George McJunkin\n\nGeorge McJunkin (1856–1922) was an African American cowboy, amateur archaeologist and historian in New Mexico. He discovered the Folsom Site in 1908.\n\nBorn to slaves in Midway, Texas, McJunkin was approximately 14 years old when the Civil War ended. He worked as a cowboy for freighters. He reportedly learned how to read from fellow cow punchers. McJunkin taught himself to read, write, speak Spanish, play the fiddle and guitar, eventually becoming an amateur archaeologist and historian. In 1868, McJunkin arrived in New Mexico and became a foreman on the Thomas Owens Pitchfork Ranch. McJunkin became a buffalo hunter and worked for several ranches in Colorado, New Mexico and Texas. He was also reported to be an expert bronc rider and one of the best ropers in the United States. He became foreman of the Crowfoot ranch near Folsom, New Mexico.\n\nAfter a flood which killed 18 people in Folsom, McJunkin assessed damage to the ranch. While patching fence, McJunkin entered a small canyon, where he discovered remains of a giant prehistoric bison, now contained in the Smithsonian. Between the ribs of the bison was a distinctive type of stone tool, now called a Folsom point. Recognizing the significance of the find, McJunkin left the site undisturbed and alerted archaeologists. Giant Bison of the type McJunkin discovered had gone extinct at the end of the last Ice Age; proof of a human kill established the antiquity of North America's native cultures.\n\nMcJunkin's discovery of the Folsom Site changed New World archaeology, as it showed that people had inhabited North America since at least 9000 BCE, some 7000 years earlier than previously thought.\n\nAt his death, McJunkin was buried at the Folsom Cemetery in Folsom, New Mexico.\n\n"}
{"id": "19160173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19160173", "title": "Gwynedd Archaeological Trust", "text": "Gwynedd Archaeological Trust\n\nThe Gwynedd Archaeological Trust is an Archaeological Trust organisation established in 1974 as part of the Welsh Archaeological Trusts. \n\nThe Trust maintains Historic Environment Records for their area to provide archaeological advice to central government, planning authorities and other public bodies. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "49389307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49389307", "title": "Harriet Evans Paine", "text": "Harriet Evans Paine\n\nHarriet Evans Paine (ca. 1822-1917) was a Texas storyteller and oral historian. She was a former slave and was also known as \"Aunt Harriet.\"\n\nPaine was born as a slave to Jim and Rebecca Evans in Tennessee, around the year 1822. They were owned by Swan and Jerusha Hardin. The Hardins followed their sons to Texas in 1828. In Texas, Paine was the \"thimble girl,\" threading needles for Jerusha's mother. In 1834 she became a servant in Benjamin Franklin Hardin's home. Hardin lived on a plantation outside of Liberty.\n\nPaine participated in the Runaway Scrape; and during 1836 and 1837, served Mexican officers captured at the Battle of San Jacinto and housed at William Hardin's plantation. It is said that she treated the prisoners kindly.\n\nIn 1839, she moved with Franklin's family to Seven Pines, a house within the town of Liberty.\n\nPaine had children with two other slaves, Henry Rowe and Mr. Green. Her children were named Henry Rowe Jr. and Calvin and Melinda Green. It is unknown what happened to all of her children and no marriages were recorded, although it was noted that she was \"not allowed to live with her husband.\" She also lived with her children behind the main house.\n\nAfter Juneteenth, 1865, when slaves were freed, Paine continued to work for the Hardins, most likely having \"signed a Freedmen's contract with Franklin Hardin.\" She worked at Seven Pines until 1916, when there was a fire that nearly destroyed the house. Paine rescued the Hardin family's letters and documents. Paine died in 1917.\n\nHer stories and oral histories have been preserved by the Hardin family and are housed in the Hardin Collection at the Sam Houston Regional Library and Research Center.\n\n"}
{"id": "14064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14064", "title": "Henry Home, Lord Kames", "text": "Henry Home, Lord Kames\n\nHenry Home, Lord Kames (169627 December 1782) was a Scottish advocate, judge, philosopher, writer and agricultural improver. A central figure of the Scottish Enlightenment, a founder member of the Philosophical Society of Edinburgh, and active in the Select Society, his protégés included David Hume, Adam Smith, and James Boswell.\n\nBorn at Kames House, between Eccles and Birgham, Berwickshire, he was educated at home by a private tutor. He studied law at Edinburgh, was called to the bar in 1724, and became an advocate. He soon acquired reputation by a number of publications on the civil and Scottish law, and was one of the leaders of the Scottish Enlightenment. In 1752, he was \"raised to the bench\", thus acquiring the title of Lord Kames.\n\nHome was on the panel of judges in the Joseph Knight case which ruled that there could be no slavery in Scotland.\n\nHis address in 1775 is shown as New Street on the Canongate.\n\nHe is buried in the Home-Drummond plot at Kincardine-in-Menteith just west of Blair Drummond.\n\nHome wrote much about the importance of property to society. In his \"Essay Upon Several Subjects Concerning British Antiquities\", written just after the Jacobite rising of 1745 he described how the politics of Scotland were not based on loyalty to Kings or Queens as Jacobites had said but on royal land grants given in return for loyalty.\n\nIn \"Historical Law Tracts\" and later in \"Sketches on the History of Man\" he described human history as having four distinct stages. The first was as a hunter-gatherer where people avoided each other out of competition. The second stage he described was a herder of domestic animals which required forming larger societies. No laws were needed at these stages except those given by the head of the family or society. Agriculture was the third stage requiring greater cooperation and new relationships to allow for trade or employment (or slavery). He argued that 'the intimate union among a multitude of individuals, occasioned by agriculture' required a new set of rights and obligations in society. This requires laws and law enforcers. A fourth stage moves from villages and farms to seaports and market towns requiring yet more laws and complexity but also much to benefit from. Kames could see these stages within Scotland itself, with the pastoral/agricultural highlands, the agricultural/industrial lowlands and the growing commercial (\"polite\") towns of Glasgow and Edinburgh.\n\nHome was a polygenist, he believed God had created different races on earth in separate regions. In his book \"Sketches of the History of Man\", in 1774, Home claimed that the environment, climate, or state of society could not account for racial differences, so that the races must have come from distinct, separate stocks.\n\nThe above studies created the genre of the story of civilization and defined the fields of anthropology and sociology and therefore the modern study of history for two hundred years.\n\nIn the popular book \"Elements of Criticism\" (1762) Home interrogated the notion of fixed or arbitrary rules of literary composition, and endeavoured to establish a new theory based on the principles of human nature. The late eighteenth-century tradition of sentimental writing was associated with his notion that 'the genuine rules of criticism are all of them derived from the human heart. Prof Neil Rhodes has argued that Lord Kames played a significant role in the development of English as an academic discipline in the Scottish Universities.\n\nHe enjoyed intelligent conversation and cultivated a large number of intellectual associates, among them John Home, David Hume and James Boswell.. Lord Monboddo was also a frequent debater of Kames, although these two usually had a fiercely competitive and adversarial relationship.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43349992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349992", "title": "Historical determinism", "text": "Historical determinism\n\nHistorical determinism is the stance that events are historically predetermined or currently constrained by various forces. Historical determinism can be understood in contrast to its negation, i.e. the rejection of historical determinism.\n\nSome political philosophies (e.g. Early and Stalinist Marxism) assert a historical materialism of either predetermination or constraint, or both.\n\nUsed as a pejorative, it is normally meant to designate an overdetermination of present possibilities by historical conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1638240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1638240", "title": "History of Chennai", "text": "History of Chennai\n\nChennai, formerly known as Madras, is the capital of the state of Tamil Nadu and is India's fourth largest city. It is located on the Coromandel Coast of the Bay of Bengal. With an estimated population of 8.9 million (2014), the 400-year-old city is the 31st largest metropolitan area in the world.\nChennai boasts of a long history from the English East India Company, through the British rule to its evolution in the late 20th century as a services and manufacturing hub for India. Additionally, the pre-city area of Chennai has a long history within the records of South Indian Empires.\n\nChennai, originally known as \"Mudhiras\", was located in the province of Tondaimandalam, an area lying between Pennar river of Nellore and the Pennar river of Cuddalore. The capital of the province was Kancheepuram. Tondaimandalam was ruled in the 2nd century by Tondaiman Ilam Tiraiyan, who was a representative of the Chola family at Kanchipuram. It is believed that Ilam Tiraiyan must have subdued the mudhiras, the original inhabitants of the region and established his rule over Tondaimandalam. The modern city of \"Chennai\" arose from the British settlement of Fort St. George and its subsequent expansion through merging numerous native villages and European settlements around Fort St. George into the city of Madras. While most of the original city of Madras was built and settled by Europeans, the surrounding area which was later incorporated included the native temples of Thiruvanmiyur, Thiruvotriyur, Thiruvallikeni (Triplicane), Thirumayilai (Mylapore) which have existed for more than 1000 years. Thiruvanmiyur, Thiruvotriyur and Thirumayilai are mentioned in the Thevarams of the Moovar (of the Nayanmars) while Thiruvallikeni in the Nalayira Divya Prabhandhams (of the Alwars).\n\n Subsequent to Ilam Tiraiyan, the region was ruled by the Chola Prince Ilam Killi. The Chola occupation of Tondaimandalam was put to an end by the Andhra Satavahana incursions from the north under their King Pulumayi II. They appointed chieftains to look after the Kanchipuram region. Bappaswami, who is considered as the ruler to rule from Kanchipuram, was himself a chieftain (of the tract around) at Kanchipuram under the Satavahana empire in the beginning of the 3rd century. The Pallavas who had so far been merely viceroys, then became independent rulers of Kanchipuram and its surrounding areas.\n\nThe Pallavas held sway over this region from the beginning of the 3rd century to the closing years of the 9th century, except for the interval of some decades when the region was under the Kalabhras. The Pallavas were defeated by the Cholas under Aditya I by about 879 and the region was brought under the Chola rule. The Pandyas under Jatavarman Sundara Pandyan rose to power and the region was brought under the Pandya rule by putting an end to Chola supremacy in 1264.\n\nThe present day city of Chennai started as an English settlement known as Fort St. George. The region was then a part of Vijayanagara Empire, then headquartered at Chandragiri in present-day Andhra Pradesh. The Vijayanagar rulers who controlled the area, appointed chieftains known as Nayaks who ruled over the different regions of the province almost independently. The region was under the control of the Damerla Venkatadri Nayakudu, a Padma Velama Nayak chieftain of Srikalahasti and Vandavasi. He was also an influential Nayak ruler under the Vijayanagara King Peda Venkata Raya then based in Chandragiri-Vellore Fort, was in-charge of the area of present Chennai city when the English East India Company arrived to establish a factory in the area.\n\nOn 20 August 1639 Francis Day of the East India Company along with Damerla Venkatadri Nayak travelled to Chandragiri palace to meet the Vijayanagara King Peda Venkata Raya and to obtain a grant for a small strip of land in the Coromandel Coast from in Chandragiri as a place to build a factory and warehouse for their trading activities. It was from Damarla Venkatadri Nayaks domain, on 22 August 1639, the piece of land lying between the river Cooum almost at the point it enters the sea and another river known as the Egmore river was granted to East India Company after deed from Vijaynagara emperor.\n\nOn this piece of waste land was founded Fort St. George, a fortified settlement of British merchants, factory workers, and other colonial settlers. Upon this settlement the English expanded their colony to include a number of other European communities, new British settlements, and various native villages, one of which was named Mudhirasa pattanam. It in honor of the later village upon which the British named the entire colony and the combined city Madras. Controversially, in an attempt to revise history and justify renaming the city as Chennai, the ruling party has purged the history of the early English Madras settlements. According to the new party history, instead of being named Madras, it was named Chennai, after a village called Chennapattanam, in honour of Damerla Chennappa mudirasa Nayaka, father of Damerla Venkat mudirasa Nayaka, who controlled the entire coastal country from Pulicat in the north to the Portuguese settlement of Santhome.\n\nHowever, it is widely recorded that while the official centre of the present settlement was designated Fort St. George, the British applied the name Madras to a new large city which had grown up around the Fort including the \"White Town\" consisting principally of British settlers, and \"Black Town\" consisting of principally Catholic Europeans and allied Indian minorities.\nThiruvotriyur is historically important port city, now forms part of north chennai. vayiratharayan of Virukanbakkam alias Chenninallur.\n\nModern Chennai had its origins as a colonial city and its initial growth was closely tied to its importance as an artificial harbour and trading centre. When the Portuguese arrived in 1522, they built a port and named it São Tomé, after the Christian apostle St. Thomas, who is believed to have preached there between the years 52 and 70. The region then passed into the hands of the Dutch, who established themselves near Pulicat just north of the city in 1612. Both groups strived to grow their colonial populations and although their populations reached into 10,000 persons when the British arrived, they remained substantially outnumbered by the local Indian population.\n\nBy 1612, the Dutch established themselves in Pulicat to the north.\nIn the 17th century the English East India Company decided to build a factory on the east coast and in 1626 selected its site as Armagon (Dugarazpatnam), a village some 35 miles north of Pulicat. The calico cloth from the local area, which was in high demand, was of poor quality and not suitable for export to Europe. The English soon realized that port Armagon was unsuitable for trade purposes. Francis Day, one of the officers of the company, who was then a Member of the Masulipatam Council and the Chief of the Armagon Factory, made a voyage of exploration in 1637 down the coast as far as Pondicherry with a view to choosing a site for a new settlement.\n\nAt that time the Coromandel Coast was ruled by Peda Venkata Raya, from the Aravidu Dynasty of Vijayanagara Empire based out of Chandragiri-Vellore. Under the Kings, local chiefs or governors known as Nayaks ruled over each district.\n\nDamarla Venkatadri Nayaka, local governor of the Vijayanagar Empire and Nayaka of Wandiwash (Vandavasi), ruled the coastal part of the region, from Pulicat to the Portuguese settlement of San Thome. He had his headquarters at Wandiwash, and his brother Ayyappa Nayakudu resided at Poonamallee, a few miles to the west of Madras, where he looked after the affairs of the coast. Beri Thimmappa, Francis Day's \"dubash\" (interpreter), was a close friend of Damarla Ayyappa Nayakudu. In the early 17th century Beri Thimmappa of the \"Puragiri Kshatriya (Perike)\" caste migrated to the locality from Palacole, near Machilipatnam in Andhra Pradesh. Ayyappa Nayakudu persuaded his brother to lease the sandy strip to Francis Day and promised him trade benefits, army protection, and Persian horses in return. Francis Day wrote to his headquarters at Masulipatam for permission to inspect the proposed site at \"Madraspatnam\" and to examine the possibilities of trade there. \"Madraspatnam\" seemed favourable during the inspection, and the calicoes woven there were much cheaper than those at Armagon (Durgarazpatam).\n\nOn 22 August 1639, Francis Day secured the Grant by the Damarla Venkatadri Nayaka, Nayaka of Wandiwash, giving over to the East India Company a three-mile long strip of land, a fishing village called \"Madraspatnam\", copies of which were endorsed by Andrew Cogan, the Chief of the Masulipatam Factory, and are even now preserved. The Grant was for a period of two years and empowered the Company to build a fort and castle on about five square kilometres of its strip of land.\n\nThe English Factors at Masulipatam were satisfied with Francis Day's work. They requested Day and the Damarla Venkatadri Nayaka to wait until the sanction of the superior English Presidency of Bantam in Java could be obtained for their action. The main difficulty, among the English those days, was lack of money. In February 1640, Day and Cogan, accompanied by a few factors and writers, a garrison of about twenty-five European soldiers and a few other European artificers, besides a Hindu powder-maker named Naga Battan, proceeded to the land which had been granted and started a new English factory there. They reached Madraspatnam on 20 February 1640; and this date is important because it marks the first actual settlement of the English at the place.\n\nThe grant signed between Damarla Venkatadri and the English had to be authenticated or confirmed by the Raja of Chandragiri - Venkatapathy Rayulu. The Raja, Venkatapathy Rayulu, was succeeded by his nephew Sri Rangarayulu in 1642, and Sir Francis Day was succeeded by Thomas Ivy. The grant expired, and Ivy sent Factor Greenhill on a mission to Chandragiri to meet the new Raja and to get the grant renewed. A new grant was issued, copies of which are still available. It is dated October - November 1645. This new grant is important regarding the legal and civic development of the English settlement. Because the Raja operated an arbitrary and capricious legal code which fundamentally discriminated against private property, trade, and merchandising in general, and against non-Indians in particular, the new grant signed in 1645 expanded the rights of the English by empowering them to administer English Common Law amongst their colonists and Civil Law between the colonists and the other European, Muslim, and Hindu nationalities. Furthermore, it expanded the Company property by attaching an additional piece of land known as the Narimedu (or 'Jackal-ground') which lay to the west of the village of Madraspatnam. This new grant laid the foundation for the expansion of Madras into its present form. All three grants are said to have been engraved on gold plates which were later reported to have been plundered, disappearing during one of the genocides of the English colony. However, there are city records of their existence long afterwards, and it has been suggested that the present government may still hold them.\nFrancis Day and his superior Andrew Cogan can be considered as the founders of Madras (now Chennai). They began construction of the Fort St George on 23 April 1640 and houses for their residence. Their small fortified settlement quickly attracted other East Indian traders and as the Dutch position collapsed under hostile Indian power they also slowly joined the settlement. By the 1646, the settlement had reached 19,000 persons and with the Portuguese and Dutch populations at their forts substantially more. To further consolidate their position, the Company combined the various settlements around an expanded Fort St. George, which including its citadel also included a larger outside area surrounded by an additional wall. This area became the Fort St. George settlement. As stipulated by the Treaty signed with the Nayak, the British and other Christian Europeans were not allowed to decorate the outside of their buildings in any other color but white. As a result, over time, the area came to be known as 'White Town'.\n\nAccording to the treaty, only Europeans, principally Protestant British settlers were allowed to live in this area as outside of this confine, non-Indians were not allowed to own property. However, other national groups, chiefly FrenchPortuguese, and other Catholic merchants had separate agreements with the Nayak which allowed them in turn to establish trading posts, factories, and warehouses. As the East India Company controlled the trade in the area, these non-British merchants established agreements with the Company for settling on Company land near \"White Town\" per agreements with the Nayak. Over time, Indians also arrived in ever greater numbers and soon, the Portuguese and other non-Protestant Christian Europeans were outnumbered. Following several outbreaks of violence by various Hindu and Muslim Indian communities against the Christian Europeans, White Town's defenses and its territorial charter was expanded to incorporate most of the area which had grown up around its walls thereby incorporating most of its Catholic European settlements. In turn they resettled the non-European merchants and their families and workers, almost entirely Muslim or of various Hindu castes outside of the newly expanded \"White Town\". This was also surrounded by a wall. To differentiate these non-European and non-Christian area from \"White Town\", the new settlement was termed \"Black Town. Collectively, the original Fort St. George settlement, \"White Town\", and \"Black Town\" were called Madras.\n\nDuring the course of the late 17th century, both plague and genocidal warfare reduced the population of the colony dramatically. Each time, the survivors fell back upon the safety of the Fort St George. As a result, owing to the frequency of outbursts of racial and national violence against the Europeans and especially the English, Fort St George with its impressive fortifications became the nucleus around which the city grew and rebuilt itself. Several times throughout the life of the colony, the Fort became the last refuge of Europeans and their allied Indian communities due to raids by several Indian rulers and powers, which resulted in the almost total destruction of the town. Each time the town and later city was rebuilt and repopulated with new English and European settlers. The Fort still stands today, and a part of it is used to house the Tamil Nadu Legislative Assembly and the Office of the Chief Minister. Elihu Yale, after whom Yale University is named, was British governor of Madras for five years. Part of the fortune that he amassed in Madras as part of the colonial administration became the financial foundation for Yale University.\n\nThe city has changed its boundaries as well as the geographic limits of its quarters several times, principally as a result of raids by surrounding Hindu and Muslim powers. For instance, Golkonda forces under General Mir Jumla conquered Madras in 1646, massacred or sold into slavery many of the Christian European inhabitants and their allied Indian communities, and brought Madras and its immediate surroundings under his control. Nonetheless, the Fort and its surrounding walls remained under British control who slowly rebuilt their colony with additional colonists despite another mass murder of Europeans in Black Town by anti-colonialists agitated by Golkonda and plague in the 1670s. In 1674, the expanded colony had nearly 50,000 mostly British and European colonists and was granted its own corporate charter, thereby officially establishing the modern day city. Eventually, after additional provocations from Golkonda, the British pushed back until they defeated him.\n\nAfter the fall of Golkonda in 1687, the region came under the rule of the Mughal Emperors of Delhi who in turn granted new Charters and territorial borders for the area. Subsequently, Firmans were issued by the Mughal Emperor granting the rights of the English East India company in Madras and formally ending the official capacity of local rulers to attack the British. In the latter part of the 17th century, Madras steadily progressed during the period of the East India Company and under many Governors. Although most of the original Portuguese, Dutch, and British population had been killed during genocides during the Golkonda period, under Moghul protection, large numbers of British and Anglo-American settlers arrived to replenish these losses. As a result, during the Governorship of Elihu Yale (1687–92), the large number of British and European settlers led to the most important political event which was the formation of the institution of a Mayor and the Corporation for the city of Madras. Under this Charter, the British and Protestant inhabitants were granted the rights of self-government and independence from company law. In 1693, a \"perwanna\" was received from the local Nawab granting the towns of Tondiarpet, Purasawalkam and Egmore to the company which continued to rule from Fort St. George. The present parts of Chennai like Poonamalee (ancient Tamil name - \"Poo Iruntha valli\"), Triplicane (ancient Tamil name - \"Thiru alli keni\") are mentioned in Tamil \"bhakti\" literature of the 6th - 9th centuries.Thomas Pitt became the Governor of Madras in 1698 and governed for eleven years. This period witnessed remarkable development of trade and increase in wealth resulting in the building of many fine houses, mansions, housing developments, an expanded port and city complete with new city walls, and various churches and schools for the British colonists and missionary schools for the local Indian population.\n\nAcquisitions\nIn 1746, Fort St George and Madras were captured at last. But this time it was by the French under General La Bourdonnais, who used to be the Governor of Mauritius. Because of its importance to the East India Company, the French plundered and destroyed the village of Chepauk and Blacktown, the locality across from the port where all the dockyard labourers used to live.\n\nThe British regained control in 1749 through the Treaty of Aix-la-Chapelle. They then strengthened and expanded Fort St George over the next thirty years to bear subsequent attacks, the strongest of which came from the French (1759, under Thomas Arthur, Comte de Lally), and later Hyder Ali, the Sultan of Mysore in 1767 during the First Anglo-Mysore War. Following the Treaty of Madras which brought that war to an end, the external threats to Madras significantly decreased. The 1783 version of Fort St George is what still stands today.\n\nIn the latter half of the 18th century, Madras became an important British naval base, and the administrative centre of the growing British dominions in southern India. The British fought with various European powers, notably the French at Vandavasi (Wandiwash) in 1760, where de Lally was defeated by Sir Eyre Coote, and the Danish at Tharangambadi (Tranquebar). Following the British victory in the Seven Years' War they eventually dominated, driving the French, the Dutch and the Danes away entirely, and reducing the French dominions in India to four tiny coastal enclaves. The British also fought four wars with the Kingdom of Mysore under Hyder Ali and later his son Tipu Sultan, which led to their eventual domination of India's south. Madras was the capital of the Madras Presidency, also called Madras Province.\nBy the end of 1783, the great 18th century wars which saw the British and French battle from Europe to North America and from the Mediterranean to India, resulted in the British being in complete control of the city's regional and most of South India area. Although the British had lost most of their well-populated, industrious, and wealthy North American colonies, after a decade's feud with the French, they were securely in control of Madras and most of the Indian trade. Consequently, they expanded the Chartered control of the company by encompassing the neighbouring villages of Triplicane, Egmore, Purasawalkam and Chetput to form the city of \"Chennapatnam\", as it was called by locals then. This new area saw a proliferation of English merchant and planter families who, allied with their wealthy Indian counterparts, jointly controlled Chennapatnam under the supervision of White Town. Over time and administrative reforms, the area was finally fully incorporated into the new metropolitan charter of Madras.\n\nThe development of a harbour in Madras led the city to become an important centre for trade between India and Europe in the 18th century. In 1788, Thomas Parry arrived in Madras as a free merchant and he set up one of the oldest mercantile companies in the city and one of the oldest in the country (EID Parry). John Binny came to Madras in 1797 and he established the textile company Binny & Co in 1814. Spencer's started as a small business in 1864 and went on to become the biggest department stores in Asia at the time. The original building which housed Spencer & Co. was burnt down in a fire in 1983 and the present structure houses one of the largest shopping malls in India, Spencer Plaza. Other prominent companies in the city included Gordon Woodroffe, Best & Crompton, Higginbotham's, Hoe & Co and P. Orr & Sons.\n\nMillions of people starved to death throughout British ruled Tamil Nadu, around 3.9 million people perished in Chennai alone within two years of 1877-78.\n\nMadras was the capital of the Madras Presidency and thus became home to important commercial organisations. Breaking with the tradition of the closed and almost wholly British controlled system of the English East India Company, The Madras Chamber of Commerce was founded in 1836 by Fredrick Adam, Governor of the Madras Presidency (the second oldest Chamber of Commerce in the country). Thereafter in a nod to the declining fortunes of the British textile owners and skilled workers who were still extant in the city, the Madras Trades Association was established in 1856, by which the old colonial families still involved in the skilled and textile trades were granted entry into the British and Indian financial trade system. In turn, the Madras Stock Exchange was established in 1920.\nIn 1906, the city experienced a financial crisis with the failure of its leading merchant bank, Arbuthnot & Co. The crisis also imperiled Parry & Co and Binny & Co, but both found rescuers. The lawyer V. Krishnaswamy Iyer made a name for himself representing claimants, mostly wealthy Hindus and Muslims who had lent money on the failed bank. The next year, flush with funds won from the original British owners who had capitalized the bank, he organized a group of Chettiar merchants to found Indian Bank, with which he funded new Indian enterprises and broke into the previously closed ranks of the British financial system. The bank still has its corporate headquarters in the city.\n\nDuring World War I, Madras (Chennai) was shelled by the German light cruiser SMS \"Emden\", resulting in 5 civilian deaths and 26 wounded. The crew of a merchant ship also destroyed by the Germans that night.\n\nAfter India became independent in 1947, the city became the administrative and legislative capital of Madras State which was renamed as Tamil Nadu in 1968.\n\nDuring the reorganisation of states in India on linguistic lines, in 1953, Telugu speakers wanted Madras as the capital of Andhra Pradesh and coined the slogan \"Madras Manade\" (Madras is ours). The demands for the immediate creation of a Telugu-speaking state were met with after Tirupati was included in Andhra State and after the leaders who led the movement were convinced to give up their claim on Madras. The dispute arose as over the preceding hundred years, the early British, European workers and small cottage capitalists had been replaced in large part by both Tamil and Telugu speaking people. In fact, as the greater concentration of capital wrecked what remained of old East Indian middle class, the city principally became a large housing development for huge numbers of workers. Most of these were recruited as cheap labor from the relatively poor Telugu nationality, which in turn enraged the Tamil nationals who were originally the working and middle class settlers of Madras in the late 18th century. Earlier, Panagal Raja, Chief Minister of Madras Presidency in the early 1920s had suggested that the Cooum River be the boundary between the Tamil and Telugu administrative areas. In 1953, the political and administrative dominance of Tamils, both at the Union and State levels ensured that Madras was not transferred to the new state of Andhra.\n\nAlthough the original inhabitants of Madras and responsible for its growth into the modern metropolis of today, the British and European nationals are virtually non-existent. Always a tiny minority in comparison with the vast Indian population of the hinterlands, despite slow growth in natural birthrate and continued settlement, the British and European populations were made an ever-decreasing share of their city's populations. As more and more Indians arrived from the countryside to work in the city, the British and other Europeans found it increasingly difficult to establish or maintain independent wealth as they had during the early East Indian regime. This only furthered to mitigate continued British settlement. Nonetheless, as any purview of the city's and other major metropolitan cemeteries of India can attest, hundreds of thousands came to India between the 1600s (decade) and 1770s and later another million more came between 1770 and 1870. These settlers and their families spread throughout India or settled in the cities, with Madras being one of their principal entry points. However, by the early 20th century they had become a small minority in their own city. Although they remained in control of the original corporations and businesses of Madras, and were the official representatives of the Imperial government, their communities size relative to the larger Indian population in Madras ensured their eventual demise should democratic control be given to Indian nationalities in place of the older Colonial charters. When this was accomplished with the Independence of India in 1947, they were quickly brushed aside by the Indian population.\n\nDespite lacking their original numbers and control, the original British community remnants, along with other minorities as well as the long history of British culture, keeps Madras a slightly cosmopolitan city. Population of Telugu's and Tamils were more or less the same in those days, however dynamics of Madras city was changed post independence rapidly. mixed Anglo Indian descendants of the original English settlers, a smaller but still extant British and European community, as well as migrant Malayalee communities in the city. As the city is an important administrative and commercial centre, many others such as Bengalis, Punjabis, Gujaratis and Marwaris, as well as people from Uttar Pradesh and Bihar migrated to the city and have contributed to its cosmopolitan nature. Today, Chennai also has a growing expatriate population especially from the United States, Europe and East Asia who work in the industries and IT centres.\n\nSince its establishment as a city in 1639, English was the official language of the city. However, from 1960s, the Central government started gearing up the use of Hindi in business and government. Therefore, from 1965 to 1967, the city saw agitations against this two language (Hindi and local language) policy, and witnessed sporadic rioting. Madras witnessed further political violence due to the civil war in Sri Lanka, with 33 people killed by a bomb planted by the Tamil Eelam Army at the airport in 1984, and assassination of thirteen members of the EPRLF and two Indian civilians by the rival LTTE in 1991. In the same year, former Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi was assassinated in Sriperumbudur, a small town close to Chennai, whilst campaigning in Tamil Nadu, by Thenmuli Rajaratnam A.K.A. Dhanu. Dhanu is widely believed to have been an LTTE member. In 1996, keeping with the recent nationwide practice of Indianizing city names, the Government of Tamil Nadu, then represented by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, renamed the city to Chennai. The 2004 tsunami lashed the shores of Chennai killing many. \n\nToday, modern Chennai, formerly known as Madras is a large cultural, commercial and industrial centre, and is known for its cultural heritage and temple architecture. Chennai is the automobile capital of India, with around forty percent of the automobile industry having a base there and with a major portion of the nation's vehicles being produced there. Chennai is also referred as the Detroit of South Asia. It is a major manufacturing centre. Chennai has also become a major centre for outsourced IT and financial services from the Western world. Owing to the city’s rich musical and cultural traditions, the United Nations Educational, Scientific, and Cultural Organisation (UNESCO) has included Chennai in its Creative Cities Network .\n\nVarious etymologies have been posited for the name, 'Chennai'. These are a few of the suggested explanations of the origin of the words \"Chennai\" or \"Chennapattanam\":\n\n\nChennai's earlier name of Madras is similarly mired in controversy. But there is some consensus that it is an abbreviation of \"Madraspatnam\", the site chosen by the British East India Company for a permanent settlement in 1639.\n\nCurrently, the nomenclature of the area is in a state of controversy. The region was often called by different names as \"madrapupatnam\", \"madras kuppam\", \"madraspatnam\", and \"madirazpatnam\" as adopted by locals. Another small town, \"Chennapatnam\", lay to the south of it. This place was supposedly named so by Damarla Venkatadri Nayakudu, Nayak of Vandavasi in remembrance of his father Damarla Chennappa Nayakudu. He was the local governor for the last Raja of Chandragiri, Sri Ranga Raya VI of Vijayanagar Empire. The first Grant of Damarla Venkatadri Nayakudu makes mention of the village of Madraspatnam as incorporated into East India lands but not of Chennapatnam. This together with the written records makes it clear that the Fort which became the centre of present Chennai, was built upon or nearby the village of Madraspatnam. Although, Madraspatnam is named in later records following the establishment of Fort St. George, this is likely because of the discriminatory nature of the local caste system. Under Hindu caste code, as well as English Common Law, it is unlikely that Fort St. George was built upon the village of Madraspatnam and its inhabitants incorporated into the new town. Instead, it is likely that Fort was built either close to the village or if it was built upon the village, the village was relocated. In fact, in all records of the times, a difference is made between the original village of Madraspatnam and the new town growing around the Fort known as \"White Town\". Therefore, because of the fort's proximity or origin to the village of Mandraspatnam, and the fort's centrality to the development of the city, the British settlers of the city later named their settlement Madras in honour of it. Further militating against the name \"Chennai\", Chennapatnam was the name in later years of an area explicitly detailed as having been incorporated of native villages, European plantations, and European merchant houses outside of the combined city of Madras consisting of Fort St. George, and White and Black Town. Lastly, while the Fort St. George, White Town, and Black Town areas were fully incorporated together by the late 18th century, and was known as Madras, Chennapatnam was its own separate entity existing under the authority of Fort St. George well into the 19th century. Consequently, once the area separating Chennapatnam and Old Madras was built over uniting the two settlements, as founders, settlers, and authorities of area, the English named the new united city Madras. Thus it is improbable that the area was ever called Chennai. Instead, being the gateway of trade and the centre of the economy of the region, the English settlement and their fort of 1639-40, which was the basis for the presently named city of Chennai, was likely called Madras as well by the rest of India. The DMK renamed Madras to Chennai as DMK founder Anna renamed Madras State as Tamil Nadu.\n\n\n\n\nchennai"}
{"id": "44314987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44314987", "title": "Israel Cavazos Garza", "text": "Israel Cavazos Garza\n\nIsrael Cavazos Garza (2 January 1923 – 5 November 2016) was a Mexican historian, writer, and academic whose academic and historiographic publications included \"A Brief History of Nuevo Leon\" and \"Mariano Escobedo, the Glorious Republican Soldier\". He was a member of the Mexican Academy of History, and his works focused primarily on the regional history of the northeast side of Mexico with particular interest in Nuevo León.\n\nCavazos Garza was born in the city of Guadalupe, Nuevo León, to the east of Monterrey. He completed high school in Monterrey and later enrolled in the El Colegio de México in Mexico City, where he was a student of Silvio Zavala, Agustín Millares Carlo, José Gaos, François Chevalier, José Miranda and Manuel Toussaint, among others.\n\nAt the age of 18, he began his historical research in the archives of the Metropolitan Cathedral of Monterrey. From 1944, he worked at the Municipal Archive of Monterrey, where he later served as director. He was the founder and director of the Library at Alfonso Reyes University (1952–1962) and was responsible for the General Archive of the State of Nuevo León (1955–1975). For this last post, he was named \"Honorary Life Director\" in 1976.\n\nCavazos collaborated in the organization of the Regional Museum of Nuevo León (\"El Obispado\") and was its counselor for 35 years (1956–1991). He served as the head of the Department of History at the Center for Humanistic Studies of the Autonomous University of Nuevo León (UANL) from 1959 to 1976. He worked as an investigator at the Bibliographic Research Institute of the Universidad Nacional Autónoma de México from 1971 to 1978, and from 1990 to 1991. From 1993 to 1994, he did counseling work with the Instituto Nacional de Antropología e Historia, and also wrote the script of the history of northern Mexico for the museum \"Espacios de Historia Mexicana en Monterrey\"\n\nGarza began teaching in the Faculty of Philosophy and Letters of the UANL. He was a founding professor of the Chair of History in the College of Agriculture, the summer school of the Technological Institute, and the Jose Eleuterio Gonzalez High School in the city of Guadalupe. He also became principal of the Excelsior College, a Salesian institution incorporated to the Autonomous University of Nuevo León. For 7 years (From 1981 to 1986) he taught the regional history of the northeast on \"Arte A.C.\" of Monterrey.\n\nIn 1955, Cavazos enrolled at the Nuevoleonesa History Society, where he was president from 1967 to 1971 and permanent secretary until 1976. He was accepted as a member of the National Academy of History and Geography in 1965, of the Academy of Occident History and the Academy of History.\n\nHe presided from 1975 to 1976 at the Mexican Association of Regional History. In 1965, he was admitted as a member of the Academy of Arts and Sciences of Cádiz. In 1978 he was named member of the Mexican Academy of History; he occupies chair 21. He is also a member of the Science Advisory Council of the Presidency of the Republic.\n\nHe attended national and international conferences, including the Seminary of University Libraries on Mendoza, as a delegate of Mexico for UNESCO, the archivist of Latin America, in Ottawa, the Central American Congress of History in Guatemala, and the Frontier International at San José in Costa Rica.\n\nOn the March 7, 1994, he completed 50 years of investigations at the Municipal Archive of Monterrey. He also made significant contributions to the Encyclopedia of Mexico.\n\nHe authored 12 essays about local topics and 20 articles in specialized publications. He edited 18 works by other authors or historical and rare documents.\n\n\nIsrael Cavazos received multiple prizes. \n\n"}
{"id": "936797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=936797", "title": "James H. Madole", "text": "James H. Madole\n\nJames Hartung Madole (July 7, 1927 – May 6, 1979) was a prominent fascist and leader of the National Renaissance Party in the United States. He is now recognized as a pivotal figure in the development of post-war occult-fascism.\n\nMadole founded the National Renaissance Party in New York City in 1948. It ended in 1981, with the death of Madole's mother, Grace Hartung Madole.\n\nMadole was influenced by Aryanism and Hinduism. He wrote that the Aryan race was of great antiquity and had been worshipped worldwide by lower races as \"White Gods\". Madole also wrote that the Aryans originated in the Garden of Eden located in North America. He also believed that America was the \"new Atlantis\" and \"the cradle of a new God like race\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1281090", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1281090", "title": "Jelgava", "text": "Jelgava\n\nJelgava (; ; see also other names) is a city in central Latvia about southwest of Riga with about 63,000 inhabitants. It is the largest town in the region of Zemgale (Semigalia). Jelgava was the capital of the united Duchy of Courland and Semigallia (1578-1795) and the administrative center of the Courland Governorate (1795-1918).\n\nJelgava is situated on a fertile plain rising only above mean sea level on the right bank of the river Lielupe. At high water the plain and sometimes the town as well can be flooded. It is a railway center and is also host to Jelgava Air Base. Its importance as a railway centre can be seen by the fact that it lies at the junction of over 6 railway lines connecting Riga to Lithuania, eastern and western Latvia, and Lithuania to the Baltic sea.\n\nUntil 1917, the city was officially referred to as Mitau. The name Jelgava is believed to be derived from the Livonian word \"jālgab\", meaning \"town on the river.\" The origin of the German name \"Mitau\" is unclear, although it is suggested that it came from the Latvian words \"mīt\" or \"mainīt\", meaning \"to exchange\" or \"to trade,\" thus making it \"the place where trading takes place.\" An alternate explanation is that \"Mitau\" came from \"Mitte in der Aue\", German for \"the middle of the Aa\", referring to the Lielupe River, formerly known as the Courland Aa (\"Kurländische Aa\" in German). \n\nJelgava before the Second World War had regular, broad streets lined with the mansions of the Baltic German nobility who resided at the former capital of Courland. The old castle (1266) of the dukes of Courland, situated on an island in the river, was destroyed by Duke Biren, who had a spacious palace erected (1738–1772) by Bartolomeo Rastrelli at the bridge across the Lielupe. The palace contains the sarcophagi of almost all of the Curonian dukes, except the last one. The future Louis XVIII sojourned in the palace between 1798 and 1800. It now functions as Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies. Other landmarks include the Baroque church of St. Anne, the tower of the destroyed Trinity church, and two handsome structures: the Villa Medem and the Academia Petrina.\n\nThe Livonian settlement Jelgava began developing between the rivers Lielupe and Driksa during the 10th century. Led by the Grand Master Konrad von Mander, the crusading Livonian Order constructed the castle in Mitau on a natural island fortification (\"Pilssala\") in 1265–1266. Using Mitau as a southern fortress, the German knights subdued the surrounding Livonians and Semigallians by 1290. The town rose in importance as a defensive fixture against the Lithuanians to the south, who succeeded in plundering Jelgava in 1345.\n\nAs a result of the fall of the Livonian Order in the Livonian War, Mitau became a town of the Duchy of Courland in 1561. Jelgava received city rights in 1573, and became the capital of the united duchies of Courland and Semigallia in 1578. When the Duchy of Courland split in 1596, Jelgava became the residence of Duke Friedrich Kettler of Semigallia. The city again became the capital of the united duchies in 1617. Because the duchy became a vassal of the Polish-Lithuanian Commonwealth, Jelgava was also referred to by the Polish name \"Mitawa\". The Commonwealth's repeated wars with Sweden subjected Jelgava to several sieges. Despite the wars, the city grew as a center for trade and industry. As Courland's neighbors increased in strength, however, the duchy and Jelgava began to fall under Russia's sphere of influence; Carl Christian Joseph of Saxony, Duke of Courland had to abdicate under Russian siege in 1763. The duchess from 1711 to 1730 was Anna Ivanovna, later Empress Anna I of Russia.\n\nThe penultimate duke of Courland, Ernst Johann von Biron, expanded the cultural aspects of Jelgava. He constructed the ducal palace and opened the first public library in the city. In 1775 the last Duke of Courland, Peter von Biron, founded the Academia Petrina, which became a cultural center for the country. The duke also encouraged theatrical performances at his court.\nWith the outbreak of the French Revolution in 1789, the citizens of Jelgava clamored for more rights. However, Imperial Russia annexed the city with Courland in 1795 during the Partitions of Poland. As the seat of the Count of Provence, the palace of Jelgava was the residence (1798–1801 and 1804–1807) of Louis XVIII before he became the French king. Although the city was occupied by Prussian troops during the Napoleonic Wars, it was largely spared destruction.\n\nJelgava further expanded after the construction of its railway in 1868. The development of its infrastructure encouraged rural Latvians to migrate to the city, as merchants, craftsmen, teachers, and officials. By 1914 Jelgava had over 45,000 inhabitants. However, Jelgava suffered considerably after the outbreak of World War I. The spirited defence of Jelgava by two battalions of the Latvian Home Guard in 1915, helped inspire the formation of the Latvian Rifles. German troops occupied the city during the war, and British prisoners of war, sent there as forced labour, suffered atrocious conditions and treatment. After the war, in 1919, Jelgava became a battleground between Bolshevik Red Guards, German paramilitaries, and Latvian freedom fighters. After the latter's victory in November of 1919, Jelgava became an important city in independent Latvia. In 1925 a sugar factory was built in Jelgava, the first such factory in Latvia. In 1939 Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies was opened in Jelgava Palace.\n\nAs a result of the Nazi-Soviet Pact, Jelgava was occupied and annexed with the rest of Latvia by the Soviet Union in 1940 during World War II. Much of the city's remaining German population were resettled into the territory of German occupied Poland during the Nazi–Soviet population transfers. German forces from Army Group North occupied Jelgava from 1941 to 1944 until the capture of the city by the Red Army. During the war, German police along with Latvian auxiliary police murdered the Jewish inhabitants of the city during a series of mass shootings (see Jelgava massacres). The main synagogue was burned to the ground. \n\nAt the late July 1944 Soviet Red army launched attack from the south in the direction of Jelgava and Tukums to encircle the German Army Group \"North''. Jelgava was declared fortress (\"Festung\") however there were only scatterd German and Latvian units in the city. From 30 July until August 7 after heavy street fighting and several air raids Red Army managed to occupy the left bank of the Lielupe river. In late August German army launched a counterattack to Jelgava from the north but it failed to drive back Soviets. Jelgava remained in the frontline until October 10 when German army retreated to Courland. \nThe city's historic center, industry, rail network, and public buildings were heavily damaged by the fighting, with almost 90% of the city destroyed.\nJelgava was rebuilt in typical Soviet style after World War II as part of the Latvian SSR. Jelgava became home to several big factories. Among them were the sugar factory, which was heavily expanded from 1975 assembly line, and administration buildings for Riga Autobus Factory (RAF). \nFollowing Latvian independence, Jelgava is slowly regaining its original Germanic heritage and is now a popular tourist site. Owing to Latvia University of Life Sciences and Technologies, many of Jelgava's inhabitants are students or people connected with education. For this reason Jelgava is sometimes called the \"Student capital of Latvia\".\n\nAs of 1 January 2017, the city had a population of 61,308.\n\nThe city's main football team, FK Jelgava, plays in the Latvian Higher League and has won the Latvian Football Cup four times.\n\n\nJelgava is twinned with:\n\n"}
{"id": "13536215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13536215", "title": "Joanna Bourke", "text": "Joanna Bourke\n\nJoanna Bourke FBA (born 1963) is an historian and academic. She is professor of history at Birkbeck, University of London.\n\nBorn to Christian missionary parents, Bourke was brought up in New Zealand, Zambia, Solomon Islands and Haiti. She attended the University of Auckland, gaining a BA and Masters in History. She undertook her PhD at the Australian National University (ANU) and subsequently held academic posts at ANU, Emmanuel College, Cambridge and Birkbeck, University of London.\n\nBourke, who describes herself as a \"socialist feminist\", has written on Irish history, gender history, working-class culture, war and masculinity, the cultural history of fear, the history of rape, the history of what it means to be human, pain, and of militarisation.\n\nBourke lives in London. She is the Director of the Birkbeck Trauma Project (formerly, the Birkbeck Pain Project). In 2014 she was elected a Fellow of the British Academy, the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34801441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34801441", "title": "Klas-Göran Karlsson", "text": "Klas-Göran Karlsson\n\nKlas-Göran Karlsson (born 1955) is a Professor of History at Lund University. He is an author of books on conflictology and Holocaust studies (\"The Holocaust as a Problem of Historical Culture\").\n"}
{"id": "57195153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57195153", "title": "Ladies Empire Club", "text": "Ladies Empire Club\n\nThe Ladies Empire Club was a private members club for women at 69 Grosvenor Street, at the east end on the south side, in London's Mayfair district.\n\nThe club was founded by members of the Victoria League to strengthen the league's work in providing hospitality to its British and visiting colonial members and the wives and parties of visiting colonial politicians. It was opened in 1902 by the colonial secretary Joseph Chamberlain and by 1906 had 700 members from the United Kingdom and 350 from British colonies. The club was independent but the Victoria League retained the right to nominate one third of the club's central committee.\n\nTo be eligible for membership, two references were required, one to propose and apply to the secretary with an introductory note, the other to second the proposal. A joining fee and annual subscription would be required upon receipt of election Members in 1913 included Mrs Stephen Spring-Rice of the London Society for Women's Suffrage, and fellow suffragist Lady Marie Willoughby de Broke.\n\nThe club provided spacious and hospitable facilities for reading and playing cards. It had smoking rooms and the bedrooms were \"comfortable and attractive\". It was particularly popular with Canadian women who came to support women’s rights.\n\nIn December 1957, an announcement appeared in \"The Times\" that the club would be accommodated at the Ladies Carlton Club from 1 January 1958.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1663139", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1663139", "title": "Legislative intent", "text": "Legislative intent\n\nIn law, the legislative intent of the legislature in enacting legislation may sometimes be considered by the judiciary when interpreting the law (see judicial interpretation). The judiciary may attempt to assess legislative intent where legislation is ambiguous, or does not appear to directly or adequately address a particular issue, or when there appears to have been a legislative drafting error.\n\nThe courts have repeatedly held that when a statute is clear and unambiguous, the inquiry into legislative intent ends at that point. It is only when a statute could be interpreted in more than one fashion that legislative intent must be inferred from sources other than the actual text of the statute.\n\nCourts frequently look to the following sources in attempting to determine the goals and purposes that the legislative body had in mind when it passed the law:\n\n\nCourts in the United States and elsewhere have developed a number of principles for handling such evidence of legislative intent; as an example, many courts have suggested that the comments of those opposing a bill under consideration should be treated with skepticism, on the principle that opponents of a bill may often exaggerate its practical consequences. \n\nOne early example of an important Supreme Court case which relied on legislative intent was \"Johnson v. Southern Pacific Co.\" (1904) 196 U.S. 1, where the court decided that a man may sue the railroad for failing to have an automatic coupler since the legislature was attempting to remedy the problem of multiple injuries by railroad coupling.\n\nOthers, most notably United States Supreme Court Justice Antonin Scalia, have objected generally to the use of such evidence, rather than reliance on the literal language of the statute, arguing that such evidence of \"legislative intent\" is often created by proponents of a bill to persuade a court to interpret the statute in a way that they were not able to persuade the legislative body to adopt when passing the bill.\n\nThese principles of legislative intent often overlap with those principles of statutory construction that courts have developed to interpret ambiguous or incomplete legislation. As an example, the principle that courts should not interpret a statute to produce absurd or unintended results will often be informed by evidence of what the proponents of a bill stated about the objectives to be achieved by the statute.\n\n"}
{"id": "33970874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33970874", "title": "Lewis H. Larson", "text": "Lewis H. Larson\n\nLewis H. Larson Jr. is an American archaeologist who has conducted significant research in Georgia, USA. He worked on the Etowah Mound site in the 1950s and is noted for discovering a pair of marble effigies. Larson also worked on excavations of the Sapelo Island Shell Ring site located off the coast of Georgia. In 1972 he was appointed as Georgia's first State Archaeologist after passing of the National Historic Preservation Act of 1966.\n\nLarson published \"Aboriginal Subsistence Technology on the Southeastern Coastal Plain during the Late Prehistoric Period\" in 1980.\nA volunteer program at the University of West Georgia's Antonio J. Waring, Jr. Archaeological Laboratory is named after him.\n"}
{"id": "33699756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33699756", "title": "List of royal titles", "text": "List of royal titles\n\nRoyal titles include:\n\n"}
{"id": "56206193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56206193", "title": "Malama Meleisea", "text": "Malama Meleisea\n\nMalama Meleisea is a Samoan historian living in Apia, Samoa. He holds the Samoan title Lasiolagi. He is the author of several historical books of Samoa, including The Making of Modern Samoa. He is currently Director of Samoan Studies at the National University of Samoa.\n\nReferences\n\n"}
{"id": "1221559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221559", "title": "Mekelle", "text": "Mekelle\n\nMekelle (, \"mäqälle\"), or Mekele formerly the capital of Enderta awraja in Tigray, is today the capital city of Tigray National Regional state. It is located around north of the Ethiopian capital Addis Ababa, with an elevation of above sea level. Administratively, Mekelle is considered a Special Zone, which is divided into seven sub-cities. Mekelle is the economic, cultural, and political hub of northern Ethiopia.\n\nMekelle has grown rapidly since 1991. In 1984 it had 61,583 inhabitants, in 1994, 96,938 (96.5% being Tigrinya-speakers), and in 2006 169,200 (i.e. 4% of the population of Tigray). Mekelle is 2.6 times larger than Adigrat, the second largest regional center, It is the fifth largest city in Ethiopia, after Addis Ababa, Dire Dawa, Adama, and Gondar. The largest proportion of the population of Mekelle depends on government employment, commerce and small-scale enterprises. Mekelle now has new engineering, cement and textile factories, producing for the local and foreign market. There is a rising university which developed out of the pre-1991 Arid Agricultural College, and about a dozen other governmental and private colleges.The city sometimes called by writers \"the northen star\",and recently in social media people have started to call the city \"the home of spartas\" to show the resistance of tigryan for 3000 years against enemy\n\nMekelle is believed to have evolved from a 13th century hamlet called Enda Meseqel (later Enda Medhane Alem), becoming a town by the early 19th century, when \"ras\" Wolde Selassie of Enderta made Antalo his seat of power, and the region of Mekelle ( to the north) his recreational center). In the tax records of \"atse\" Tewodros II, Mekelle appears as a tributary district within Enderta with a \"negarit\" of its own.\n\nThe credit for Mekelle's growth into a regional capital goes to \"atse\" Yohannes IV who made Mekelle political capital of his expanding state. He must have chose the place for its strategic proximity both to rich agricultural areas (of Raya Azebo) and to the Afar salt country. Mekelle's position on the route to Shewa, the power base of Yohannes's main rival Menelik could have been another factor. Three institutions still important for modern Mekelle were founded by Yohannes:\nIn the 1880s, Mekelle became the Emperor's capital city. Among the factor that further accelerated Mekele's growth and urbanization were the establishment of residential quarters by the \"nobility\" and court servants, the prominence of the \"amole\" salt market and the subsequent establishment of local and foreign trading and occupational communities, and Mekelle'a strategic position as a transit center for commodities of the long-distance trade routes of north eastern Ethiopia, attached to the Red Sea ports, and to northern and central Ethiopia. By establishing a market in Mekelle, Yohannes could draw on the norther trade routes as well as the salt caravan routes to the town, capitalizing on his political leverage.\n\nThe succession of \"atse\" Menelik II of Shewa signaled a trading reorientation from northern to southern Ethiopia (centered in Shewa). The new capital Addis Ababa quickly outstripped Mekelle, which, however, retained its political importance as the district and regional administration center of Enderta and Tigray respectively through the 20th century, and its economical role in the Ethiopian salt trade.\n\nDuring the Italian War of 1895-96, Mekelle became an important site in the conflict. After the fall of Adwa in spring 1895, \"ras\" Mengasha Yohannes retreated from his father's capital Mekelle following the advice of \"atse\" Menelik II. Mekelle was occupied by the Italians without a shot and integrated into the \"Colonia Eritrea\"; from here the Italians extended their occupation south, up to Ambalage. The Italian army established their fort near the Enda Eyesus church above Mekelle in October 1895. After the re-occupation of Ambalage in late 1895, the fort was besieged by Ethiopian troops, who cut the Italians' water supply. When the Italians surrendered in January 1896, Menelik allowed them to retreat to their stronghold Adigrat, probably hoping to prevent an escalation of the conflict, and he appointed his own governor over Enderta at Mekelle, \"dejazmach\" Tedla Abaguben, in order to check the rebellious Tigrayan princes.\n\nThree historical epochs sustained Mekelle's urbanization in the 20th century. The first was the advent of \"dejazmach\" Abreha Araya Demsu, governor of Eastern Tigray with Mekelle as his capital. Abreha imitated his cousin Yohannes by establishing his own splendid palace (now the Hotel called Abreha Castle) on a hill facing the grand palace, a new Saturday Market (Edaga Senbet), and a new church, Selassie, all of which were situated to the south of Mekelle proper. Likewise, he attracted various occupational groups including Muslim traders, women service vendors, and army retainers. Consequently, in the 1920s and early 1930s, Mekelle witnessed a remarkable growth in trade. \"Dejazmach\" Haile Selassie Gugsa renovated the Palace in the center to use it as his seat. There were about 5,000 inhabitants in 1935.\n\nThe second phase occurred during the Italian occupation (1936-41). The Italians, who occupied the town in November 1935, contributed considerable to the modernization of Mekelle. They built a military airport and a fort at Enda Eyesus (now the main compound of Mekelle University); reorganized roads, telephone lines, offices and residences; and installed modern water pipelines, electricity, clinics, postal services, cinema hall and resort/sport centers. They also expanded Edaga Senbet by introducing corrugated iron shops. This also attracted foreign entrepreneurs (Greeks, Arabs and Armenians). Mekelle, then divided into two zones; Italian and Native, grew about twice its former size. In 1938 there were about 12,000 inhabitants. Starting from May 1943, Mekelle was in the hands of the leaders of the Woyane uprising against the then weak restored Haile Selassie government. the following British air bombardment of the town of September-October heavily damaged the; on October 1943 Mekelle was recaptured by the Ethiopian government forces.\n\nThe third phase in Mekelle's urban development took place mainly during 1942-74. Modern urban sectors were diversified, and new administrative offices were established. The Mekelle municipality (founded 1942), telecommunications and post office, Commercial Bank and the \"atse\" Yohannes Elementary (in 1952) and Secondary School (in 1960) were established. The master plan was issued in 1962. Small-scale enterprises such as oil refineries, soap mills, leather and caning bags, costumes and flour mills were established until 1974. Most of the industrial establishments, however, have declined, degraded or closed during the 1974-91 wars.\n\nDuring the 1983–85 famine in Ethiopia, Mekelle was notorious for the seven \"hunger camps\" around the city. These housed 75,000 refugees with 20,000 more waiting to enter. During March 1985, 50 to 60 people died in these seven camps every day. In February 1986, the TPLF released 1,800 political prisoners from the Mekelle prison in a daring military action. The operation was named \"Agazi,\" after one of the founding fighters of the TPLF, who had been killed in the second year of the Ethiopian Civil War.\n\nA holy cross for the celebration of the Meskel holiday on the mountains on the east side of Mekelle.\n\nIn a series of offensives launched on 25 February 1988, TPLF fighters bypassed Mekelle but took control of Maychew, Korem and other places along the Dessie-Mekelle road. By June 1988, TPLF controlled all of Tigray except the city of Mekelle and the territory a radius of around the city. In response, the Derg had a number of villages around Mekelle burned on June 4 and 5, which included Addi Gera, Bahri, Goba Zena, Grarot, Issala, and Rabea. It was not until 25 February 1989 that Mekelle was also occupied by the TPLF, after the government position in Tigray had collapsed.\n\nOn 5 June 1998 the Eritrean Air Force bombed Ayder School in Mekelle during the Eritrean-Ethiopian War killing twelve. A monument pays respects to this tragedy.\n\nOn 29 December 2002, a riot broke out between Ethiopian Orthodox and Adventist worshippers, over an Adventist prayer service being conducted in a stadium. Some Ethiopian Orthodox believers, upset by the display of public Adventist preaching, reportedly sparked the clashes by first throwing stones at Adventists gathered in the stadium, then by looting Adventist offices in the city. Police intervened to break up the riots, which resulted in five dead and three seriously injured. The police reported that 10 people were detained, but independent sources reported that the number was much larger.\n\nThe United Nations Mission in Ethiopia and Eritrea (UNMEE) headquarters was established in Mekelle in 2000 following the end of the Eritrean–Ethiopian War and continued until 30 July 2008.\n\nThe martyrs' memorial monument pays respects to the over 60,000 TPLF fighters who died and over 100,000 fighters who were injured in the overthrow of the marxist Derg regime in 1991. The monument is tall and is located in Adi-Haki sub-city. The monument has many sculptures depicting the struggle of the peasants and fighters against the Derg soldiers.\n\nEmperor Yohannes IV in the 19th century became Negus and built a castle and Ethiopian Orthodox Tewahedo churches in the city. The castle was constructed by Ethiopian engineer \"Lij\" Ingidashet and Italian engineer Giacomo Naretti. The castle complex now serves as a museum, where the Emperor’s throne, royal bed, ceremonial dress, rifles, and many other valuable historical collections, can be seen.\n\nOther notable landmarks include the churches Enda Gabir, Enda Yesus Mekelle Bete Mengist, Mekelle Iyesus, Mekelle Maryam, Mekelle Selassie, Enda Mariam Bugsa and Mekelle Tekle Haymanot.\n\nMekelle City FC and Dedebit F.C are the local football teams from the city; both have been competing in the Ethiopian Premier League. A local market has been held every Monday since at least 1890.\n\nMekelle lies at an elevation of above sea level (at the airport), close to the edge of the northern portion of the Ethiopian Rift Valley, on a Jurassic limestone plateau, in a semi-arid area with a mean annual rainfall of . Except for a moderately dense eucalyptus cover on the hills in eastern edges of Mekelle and some exotic species of trees and shrubs lining the streets, the surrounding landscape is almost treeless.\n\nMekelle is divided into seven local administrations: Hawelti, Adi-Haki, Kedamay Weyane, Hadnet, Ayder, Semien and Quiha. Within each local administration there are \"kebeles\" or \"ketenas\". The subcities of Mekelle comprise the area formerly incorporated as Mekelle City. While falling under the jurisdiction of Mekele Special Zone Government, each subcity is also a borough with its own administrator, like other cities of Ethiopia. These officials oversee socio-economic development and run health, education, and utilities.\n\nThe subcities differ from other cities in having a unique administrative relationship with the regional government. Certain municipal functions, such as waterworks, sewerage, and fire-fighting, are handled by the Mekelle Government. To pay for the added administrative costs, the prefecture collects municipal taxes, which would usually be levied by the city. The \"three central subcities\" of Mekelle – Kedamay Weyane, Ayder and Hawelti – are the business core of the city, with a daytime population more than seven times higher than their nighttime population. Semien is unique occupied by many major factories. It is often called the \"economic center\" of the Tigray.\n\nMekelle special zone has been represented in the House of Peoples' Representatives by Addis Alem Balema since 2005. The mayor of Mekelle is Daniel Assefa.\n\nThe city council is Mekelle's legislative body and the city is administrated by a mayor (Daniel Assega) and seven local administrators.\n\nThe climate in this area is characterized by relatively high temperatures year-round and distinct wet and dry seasons. The Köppen type for this climate is tropical savanna climate (\"Aw\") as all months average above ; however it borders on a humid subtropical climate (\"Cwa\"). In the area to the northeast of Mekelle, a more dry climate, the \"warm semi-arid climate\" (\"Bsh\") is to be found.\nBased on the 2007 Census conducted by the Central Statistical Agency of Ethiopia (CSA), this town has a total population of 215,914 people (104,925 men and 110,989 women). The two largest ethnic groups reported in Semien Mi'irabawi were the Tigray (96.2%), and Amhara (2.26%); all other ethnic groups made up 1.54% of the population. Tigrinya is spoken as a first language by 95.55%, and Amharic by 3.18%; the remaining 1.27% spoke all other primary languages reported. 92.68% of the population said they were Orthodox Christians, and 6.03% were Muslim.\n\nThe 1994 national census reported the population of Mekelle as 96,938 people (45,729 men and 51,209 women). The two largest ethnic groups reported were the Tigrayan (96.5%), the Amhara (1.59%), foreigners from Eritrea (0.99%); all other ethnic groups made up 0.98% of the population. Tigrinya was spoken as a first language by 96.26%, and 2.98% spoke Amharic; the remaining 0.76% spoke all other primary languages reported. 91.31% of the population practiced Ethiopian Orthodox Christianity, and 7.66% were Muslim. Concerning education, 51.75% of the population were considered literate, which is more than the Zone average of 15.71%; 91.11% of children aged 7–12 were in primary school; 17.73% of the children aged 13–14 were in junior secondary school; and 52.13% of the inhabitants aged 15–18 were in senior secondary school. Concerning sanitary conditions, about 88% of the urban houses had access to safe drinking water at the time of the census, and about 51% had toilet facilities.\n\nMekelle is one of Ethiopia's principal economic and educational centers. \n\nLocal industry includes Mesfin Industrial Engineering, a steel fabrication and manufacturing factory, which also has car assembly line and Messebo Cement Factory, northern Ethiopia's principal cement production facility. Both companies are owned and managed by the Endowment Fund for the Rehabilitation of Tigray (EFFORT). \n\nThe $100 million Mekelle Industrial park hosts many foreign textiles companies and employs approximately 20,000 people.\n\nThere has been a boom in hotel services for tourism and conferences due to predominant place Mekelle holds in northern Ethiopia. The development of healthcare services has greatly aided in improving the quality of life of Mekelle's inhabitants. A $3.5 million modern referral public health laboratory was constructed by the US CDC to serve as a training site as well as providing quality assurance for Tigray's hospitals and medical laboratories.\n\nMekelle is surrounded by agrarian villages that sell their crops to the urban population in the markets. Traditionally there would be Saturday and Monday market where a wide variety of produce and livestock would be available for sale, in addition to salt from Afar.\n\nThe Abergelle Slaughterhouse, funded by the Dejenna Endowment, began operations in late 2008.\n\nMekelle is linked by all weather roads to Addis Ababa and Aksum, and has an airport, \"Ras\" Alula Aba Nega International Airport (ICAO code HAMK, IATA MQX). Intercity bus service is provided by the Selam Bus Line Share Company, and its city bus service is provided by Amora buses. \n\nMekelle is the terminal station of the electric Weldiya-Mekelle railway connecting Mekelle with Addis Ababa and Djibouti.\nPublicly run kindergartens, elementary schools (years 1 through 6), and junior high schools (7 through 9) are operated by local wards or municipal offices. Public high schools in Mekelle are run by the Tigray Education Bureau. Mekelle also has many private schools from kindergarten through high school.\n\nMekelle has several universities, junior colleges, and vocational schools. Many of Ethiopia's most prestigious universities are in Mekelle, including Mekelle University and Mekelle Institute of Technology. Nejashi Ethio-Turkish International Schools and Closys College are private schools in the city.\n\nMekelle is a member of the Millennium Cities Initiative.\n\nAs of 2018, Mekelle has twinning or friendship agreements with the following three cities and states:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40590038", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40590038", "title": "Metaphony (Romance languages)", "text": "Metaphony (Romance languages)\n\nIn the Romance languages, metaphony was an early vowel mutation process that operated in all Romance languages to varying degrees, raising (or sometimes diphthongizing) certain stressed vowels in words with a final or or a directly following . This is conceptually\nsimilar to the umlaut process so characteristic of the Germanic languages. Metaphony is most extensive in the Italo-Romance languages, and applies to nearly all languages of Italy. However, it is absent from Tuscan, and hence from standard Italian.\n\nMetaphony in the southern Italian languages (those to the south of Tuscany) is triggered by final and . High-mid vowels are raised to , and low-mid vowels are either raised to or diphthongized to . Metaphony is not triggered by final . The main occurrences of final are as follows:\n\nThe main occurrences of final are as follows:\nThe main occurrence of final is in masculine \"count\" nouns (< \"-um\").\n\nMetaphony in the northern Italian languages (those to the north of Tuscany) is triggered only by final . In these languages, as in Tuscan, final was lowered to ; it evidently happened prior to the action of metaphony. In these languages, metaphony also tends to apply to final , raising it to or .\n\nIn most Italian languages, most final vowels have become obscured (in the south) or lost (in the north), and the effects of metaphony are often the only markers of masculine vs. feminine and singular vs. plural.\n\nIn all of the Western Romance languages, metaphony was triggered by a final (especially of the first-person singular of the preterite), raising mid-high stressed vowels to high vowels. (It does not normally occur in the nominative plural noun forms in Old French and Old Occitan that have a reflex of nominative plural , suggesting that these developments were removed early by analogy.) Examples:\n\nIn some of the Astur-Leonese dialects, in northern Spain, a distinction between mass and count nouns appeared at an early stage. Count nouns from Latin masculines preserved the -u (<um) from Latin accusative, while mass nouns from Latin masculines were marked by an (-o), this is traditionally referred to as ″mass-neuter″. In addition, this language marked masculine plurals with (< -ōs).\n\nIn this situation, only masculine singular count nouns developed metaphony as they were the ones marked with a , while mass nouns and plurals, marked with , did not. This ending system has only been preserved in central Asturian dialects, and unlike metaphony, which is considered dialectal, has also been included in the standard version of the Asturian Language.\n\nHowever, at later stages, Eastern Astur-Leonese dialects (Eastern Asturias and Cantabria) lost the u/o distinction in noun gender markers. Some of these dialects also lost metaphony and the noun count/mass distinction altogether, only keeping it in their pronoun systems, others, such as Pasiegu from Eastern Cantabria closed all their mid-vowels in word ending syllables, and relied on metaphony as a means for distinguishing mass/count nouns. \n\nSome Astur-Leonese dialects also presented i-triggered metaphony. It is also considered dialectal, and it is most prevalent in imperatives (\"durmi\" < PIR dormi, sleep!), preterites (\"vini\" < PIE veni, I came) and demonstratives (\"isti\" < esti, this; \"isi\" < esi, that). Sometimes it prevents diphthongation (\"durmi\" vs duermi, sleep!; \"curri\" vs cuerri, run!) by closing the mid vowel in the verbal stem.\n\nRaising of to by a following final occurs sporadically in Portuguese. Example: \"porcum, porcōs\" \"pig, pigs\" > PIR > Portuguese \"porco\" vs. \"porcos\" ; \"novum, novōs, novam, novās\" \"new (masc., masc. pl., fem., fem. pl.)\" > PIR > Portuguese \"novo\" vs. \"novos, nova, novas\" . In this case, Old Portuguese apparently had in the singular vs. /os/ in the plural, despite the spelling ⟨-o -os⟩; a later development has raised plural to . Unlike elsewhere, this development is only sporadic and only affects , not . Furthermore, the mass/count distinction is expressed very differently: Only a few \"mass neuter\" demonstratives exist, and they have a \"higher\" rather than lower vowel (\"tudo\" \"everything\" vs. \"todo\" \"all (masc.)\", \"isto\" \"this (neut.)\" vs. \"este\" \"this (masc.)\"). In addition, the original pattern has been extended to some nouns originally in , e.g. \"todo\" \"all\" vs. plural \"todos\" < \"tōtum, tōtōs\".\n\nRomanian shows metaphony of the opposite sort, where final (and also , especially in the case of ) caused a diphthongization > , > , > : \"cēram\" \"wax\" > \"ceară\"; \"equam\" \"mare\" > > > \"iapă\"; \"flōrem\" \"flower\" > \"floare\"; \"nostrum, nostrī, nostram, nostrās\" \"our (masc. sg., masc. pl., fem. sg., fem. pl.)\" > > \"nostru, noştri, noastră, noastre\".\n\nThe Sardinian language likewise has a distinction between final and (again with plural ), along with metaphony. In the conservative Logudorese and Nuorese dialects, the result of metaphony is a non-phonemic alternation between (when final or occurs) and (with other final vowels). In Campidanese, final have been raised to , with the result that the metaphonic alternations have been phonemicized.\n\n"}
{"id": "9694646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9694646", "title": "Naarath", "text": "Naarath\n\nNaarath is a place named in Joshua 16:7 as one of the landmarks on the southern boundary of the Tribe of Ephraim and Benjamin. It appears to have been situated between Ataroth and Jericho. During the 4th-century, Eusebius and Jerome speak of \"Naorath\", as a \"small village of Jews fives miles from Jericho.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "29305513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29305513", "title": "Nationalization of history", "text": "Nationalization of history\n\nNationalization of history is the term used in historiography to describe the process of separation of \"one's own\" history from the common universal history, by way of perceiving, understanding and treating the past that results with construction of history as history of a nation. If national labeling of the past is not treated with great care, it can result in the retrospective nationalization of history and even assigning nonexistent or exaggerating existing national attributes of historical events and persons. Nationalization of history, which began after a period of globalization of history, was not only one of causes, but also element and result of the process of establishment of modern nations (national revival).\n\nUniversal history, the result of a universal, cosmopolitan interpretation of historical events and mankind as a whole, coherent unit, preceded the nationalization of history. In the Western world, this motivation to imagine a universal history became influential in the 18th century when numerous philosophers promoted new cosmopolitan ideologies, after the ethno-religious conflicts of the previous century, and the subsequent consolidation of states which attempted to impose themselves over religious particularisms. Colonial experience (many European countries had colonies) exposed society in Europe to numerous different cultures and civilizations. It is also very important to take in consideration that the 18th century was in the Age of Enlightenment when people's activities, both on individual and social level, were determined with desire to follow rational scientific judgment while changing the society, which released them from restraints of customs and arbitrary authorities based on faith, superstition, or revelation and backed up by religion or tradition. All these circumstances provided suitable surroundings for development of universalistic, liberal and rational global perspectives in studies of society and its past and writing historical texts.\n\nIn his \"Essay on customs (1756)\" Voltaire studied development of civilization in the world with universal perspective, rejecting tradition, Christian and national frames. He was significantly influenced by Jacques-Bénigne Bossuet and his work \"Discourse on the Universal history (1682)\" when he was first who seriously attempted to write a history of the world, without limits imposed by nation or religion, emphasizing economical, cultural and political history. Imanuel Kant developed ideas about universally applicable moral imperatives in his work \"Perpetual Peace (1795)\" and designed a plan for establishing a cosmopolitan liberal order which would result in perpetual peace. Universalism of the 18th century created an ideology which today could be identified as modern civil society.\n\nThe emerging of modern historiography is connected with German universities in the 19th century and the significant influence of Leopold von Ranke who insisted on objectivity and systematic use of historical documents in the form of authentic primary sources; his credo was to perform reconstruction of the past \"as it was\". Ranke's universal precepts in virtually all his works were, however, applied almost exclusively to the history of states and nations.\n\nThough nationalization of history could probably be traced from the earliest phases of creating historical works, it was in the period after the French revolution that creating of historical works started to be strongly influenced by national perspectives, and that perspective gradually became globally dominant with its culmination during the 19th and at the beginning of the 20th century. Nationalism was estimated as the proper perspective to such an extent that nationalization of history remained unnoticed till recently (1980s and 1990s) and was not studied in historiography in a scale that would correspond to its significance.\n\nMany various reasons, depending on the circumstances, caused nationalization of history. Probably the most important is national revival, the important element of which was nationalized history, that resulted in the emerging of modern nations and nation-states, mostly during the 19th century. With the emerging of national states, a global universal approach to writing history lost ground to the nation-state and was very much captured by it even in a significant part of the 20th century. The professionalization and institutionalization of history that took part in nation-states' institutions during the 19th and first half of the 20th century was closely connected with the process of history's increasing nationalization. Nationalization of history was additionally entrenched by the development of national curricula in schools based on \"monumental and prestigious\" series of \"authoritative\" national stories, often written in insular style and justificatory manner.\nAfter the First World War was finished, in some cases during establishment of new frontiers, the principle of national self-determination was taken in consideration during frontier demarcation. Therefore, it was necessary to establish the national historical character of certain territories and settlements, like in case between Germany and Poland and the Versailles treaty when numerous historians prepared short studies in an attempt to support territory demands based on Germany or Poland.\n\nAfter the Second World War and the process of decolonization, the process of establishing new countries led to additionally stimulated nationalization of history because \"new flags requested new histories\". Even when citizens of newly-established countries already had their national identity built, the nationalization of history was aimed to create of new national identity based on citizenship. Canada is an example of an attempt at nationalization of history to create a shared, historically-rooted identity for English and French Canadians.\nCauses of nationalization of history in former communist regimes, mostly at the end of the 20th century, can be also found in reaction on long-term submission to communist historical interpretations and forced disregard for bourgeois nationalistic past. In cases where one of the results of coloured revolutions (i.e. Georgia, Ukraine...) was the desire to gain symbolic distance from a Soviet past, the nationalization of history was a tool for externalizing of the communist past and rediscovery of European national identity of nation.\n\nIf the first phase of nationalization of history was forcibly suppressed by a national ideology (communism) or traumatic losing of wars (Japan, Germany, ...) there can be a second phase, renationalization of history, on usually changed basis and perspective of nationalism.\n\nThe nationalization of history in Ukraine had two separate phases:\n\nThe irst phase chronologically coincided with the process of \"rediscovery of tradition\" and national revival that captured all of Europe, while the second phase takes place in a period of globalization, vanishing cultural frontiers and aggressive international forms of mass culture.\n\nOne of the most important consequences of printed texts of nationalized history was that it provided a basis for national revivals in the process of creating modern nations. Projects of national awakenings captured nationalized history and turned it into a weapon of popularization of national myths in the period of establishing history as a social scientific discipline. A shortcut to production of national mythologies that proves ancient origins of modern nations, providing them with a respectable past, was forgery of historical documents, literature and historical works that were lost for some time, and then suddenly rediscovered to the approval of an astonished grateful public. Authors of such rediscovered treasures that were in a quest for success and glory did not suspect that they were in fact builders of as yet nonexistent modern nations. Even when it was obvious that certain texts were basically invented national myths, many social groups, and even intellectuals, wanted to believe that they were authentic national epics, like the Kalevala in Finland.\n\nThe nationalization of history, which had its origins more in the epics and tendentious oratory than in philosophy, sometimes grew the idea of an \"esprit des peuples\" or \"national spirit\", and, later still, the idea that each nation had a 'mission'. Such ideas did not evolve into groups of associated individuals, but into universal spirits that is said to be able to destroy individuals and nations.\n\nNationalization of history was an important element of national revival and creating new nation states in the 19th and the beginning of the 20th century. New nation states and their institutions had the most important role in social process of the professionalization and institutionalization of history that was additionally supporting the process of nationalization of history. The final consequence was that national history regarded the nation-state as the primary unit of historical analysis.\n\nNationalization of history affects all aspects of life, from relationships with other nationalities to architecture. This is a result of the fact that nationalization of history corresponds with nationalization of nature, and the fact that reservations and hostilities toward other nations accompanied nationalism from the beginning. At the end of the 20th century there were extreme nationalistic interpretations of Balkan and Caucasus history, which became powerful weapons in ethno-territorial conflicts and accelerated disintegration of multinational states like Yugoslavia and the Soviet Union.\n\nAfter disintegration of multinational states like Yugoslavia and Soviet Union, besides the process of renationalization of history, there is sometimes also retroactive nationalization of victims or tragedies of the people that in past lived in those states. According to new national historical narratives, the reason for some people were the victims of certain tragedies was because they were of a certain nationality, for example the Ukrainians of the Soviet Union. Nationalist discourse in Croatia presents the Bleiburg tragedy as an event where only Croatians suffered and died just because they were Croatians, eluding the fact that many of the victims were Serbs, Montenegrins or Slovenians while many Croatians had died while fighting as collaborators against Yugoslav partisans.\n\nNationalization of history has been increasingly called into question, and one of its consequences is the emerging of processes of denationalization of history, which is the result of an intention to change the perspective of creating works about history by promoting pluralism and international standards in social sciences. In Central and Eastern Europe there are tensions between nationalization of history and the process of European integrations. That is one of reasons for organized activities aimed toward denationalization of history.\n\nIn cases when history was reinterpreted and filtered by the media and official orthodoxy there is a situation in which nationalization of history leads to its denial.\n\n"}
{"id": "40225687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40225687", "title": "Nguyễn Đình Đầu", "text": "Nguyễn Đình Đầu\n\nNguyễn Đình Đầu (born Hanoi, March 12, 1920) is a Vietnamese historian. Đầu's researches include the early history of Saigon.\n"}
{"id": "6940628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6940628", "title": "Pedro Chirino", "text": "Pedro Chirino\n\nPedro Chirino (1557 – September 16, 1635) was a Spanish priest and historian who served as a Jesuit missionary in the Philippines. He is most remembered for his work, \"Relación de las Islas Filipinas\" (1604), one of the earliest works about the Philippines and its people that was written.\n\nHe was born in 1557 in the town of Osuna in Andalusia, Spain. A graduate in both civil and canon laws at Sevilla, he entered the Society of Jesus at age 23. He was soon appointed to the mission in the Philippines, arriving in the country in 1590 along with Gomez Perez Dasmariñas, the newly-appointed governor-general of the Philippines.\n\nHe was first assigned to Balayan before he was appointed to be the parish priest of the town of Taytay in 1591. During his tenure as parish priest, he transferred the location of Taytay parish from its original site near Laguna de Bay to a hilltop area where it has remained to this day. He also began to immerse himself in the study of the Tagalog language and was able to preach his homily in Tagalog for the first time on August 15, 1591 on the occasion of the establishment of a Jesuit mission in Antipolo. \n\nChirino also went to missions in Tigbauan from February 1593 to April 1595 and Leyte in June 1595. It was in Tigbauan where Father Chirino established in 1593 what would become the first Jesuit boarding-school in the Philippines. \n\nIn the course of his missionary work, Father Chirino also recorded the transition of Filipino writing from the Baybayin script to the Latin alphabet. In addition, he began writing down his knowledge of Philippine history as well as his observations on the way of life of Filipinos in that period. Upon his return to Europe in 1602, he worked on the publication of these writings into a book entitled \"Relación de las Islas Filipinas\". The book was eventually published in Rome in 1604.\n\nIn Europe, he was able to further establish the Jesuit mission in the Philippines at both the royal and pontifical courts. Through his efforts, he was able to obtain a decree from the Superior General of the Society of Jesus, elevating the Philippine mission to the status of vice-province, independent of the province of Mexico.\n\nFather Chirino returned to the Philippines in 1606 and continued writing about the Philippines; many of these writings have yet to be published. He died in Manila on September 16, 1635.\n"}
{"id": "13387102", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13387102", "title": "Petrus Thaborita", "text": "Petrus Thaborita\n\nPetrus Jacobi Thaborita (Latinised name form of Peter Jacobusz van Bolsward) (Bolsward, 1450–1527) was a Frisian monk, historian and writer. He is best known for his writings on the Frisian freedom fighter Pier Gerlofs Donia, and for writing down Donia's last words. In the extended works by Thaborita van Bolsward is found information on the Frisian chieftains warlords Jancko Douwama and Haring Harinxma (the Donia ancestor). \n\nDutch writer Conrad Busken Huet used many of Thaborita's descriptions of historical figures in later books. He also translated the description of Donia. Thaborita joined the monastery at an advanced age, as a widower with two sons. Petrus also dedicated a chapter in one of his books to Donia:About the death of Greate Pier, Pier Gerlofs Donia:<br>\n\"\"In dat selue iaer van 20 soe is ghestoruen groet Pyer, op Sinte Lucas nacht. Van deese Pier was grote spraeck in Hollant, in Brabant ende in ander landen, van sin grote stercheit ende gruwelicheit, ende van sin grote oghen; ende sy maectent groter dant was; mer noch tans wasset een groet, swaert, man mit grote oghen, grote schouwer ende een groten baert, ende gruweliken van aensyen, sonderlingh als hy toernich was; ende hy was grof ende plompt van spraeck ende wesen; want hy en conste nyet bequam spreken voert recht ofte voer heeren; mer mit sin groue Fryesche slaghen quaem hy mede vort, ende dat ghyngh hem alsoe plomp of, dat alle menschen, die daer by stonden, worden beweghen tot lachgen; ende hy was froem ende fel op die vianden, mer hy was redelyk van herten als een Kersten man.\"\n<br>\nEnglish translation:\n\"In the very same year of 1520, on Saint Lucas night, Grutte Pier died. Of this Pier in Holland, in Brabant and other countries tales went around about his strength and his brutality and about his large eyes. And they made it bigger than it was. Yet he was a big, heavy man, with big eyes, broad shoulders and a big beard and terrible of appearance especially when he was angry. And he was rude and unarticulated of speech and manners. Because he wasn't able to speak properly in court or in front of lords. He often made jokes, so that all the people standing around, were made to laugh. He had killed many enemies, but he had a rather good character, as if he were a good Christian.\"\"\n\nAnton Reinhard Falck was the owner of the original documents, he lent these to the researchers Visser and Amersfoordt.\n\n"}
{"id": "41812344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41812344", "title": "Phạm Thận Duật", "text": "Phạm Thận Duật\n\nPhạm Thận Duật (Chữ Nôm: 范慎遹, 1825–1885) was a high-ranking mandarin serving in the Nguyễn dynasty. He and Tôn Thất Phan, representing emperor Tự Đức's court, signed the Treaty of Huế. He participated in the anti-colonial Cần Vương resistance and died while being sent to exile in Tahiti by the French. Knowledge of his role in the resistance was hidden or lost for many decades after his death; he was thought to have been a French collaborator for having signed the treaty.\n\nHe was also a celebrated historian who was in charge of the National History Institute (Quốc Sử Quán) and the Imperial College (Quốc Tử Giám). He was the final editor of \"The Imperially Ordered Annotated Text Completely Reflecting the History of Vietnam\", a Chinese-language history of Vietnam commissioned by the emperor Tự Đức, and the mentor of future emperors Dục Đức and Đồng Khánh. There is now a prize for doctoral theses in History named after him, the Phạm Thận Duật Award.\n\nPhạm Thận Duật (courtesy names Quan Thành and Vọng Sơn, the latter named after a mountain in his hometown Ninh Bình) was born in Yên Mô Thượng village, Yên Mạc county, Yên Mô district, Ninh Bình, on November 4, 1825, during emperor Minh Mạng’s rule. His family were poor farmers who aspired to education for their children. At the age of nine, he began studying Confucianism with Vũ Phạm Khải in a neighbor village, but it lasted only a few days before Vũ Phạm Khải went to Huế to assume a government post. Phạm Thận Duật then became a student of his uncle, Nguyễn Hữu Văn, and afterwards studied under Phạm Tư Tề, a teacher from the same village who had opened a school in Nam Định. Four years later, he returned home to study under scholar Phạm Đức Diệu in Yên Mô district who later became his father-in-law. Realizing Duật's potential, Phạm Đức Diệu recommended Duật to his close friend Phạm Văn Nghị, a retired mandarin who was staunchly anti-colonialist.\n\nIn 1850, Phạm Thận Duật passed the provincial exam, and took the court exam in Huế the year after but did not advance further. Still, he was appointed as an official serving the Nguyễn dynasty during emperor Tự Đức's rule. Initially, he was the Prefecture Educational Commissioner of Đoan Hùng county, then promoted to Prefect of Tuần Giáo. During this period, he composed the Hưng Hóa Gazettes under the name Quan Thành. In 1857, he was appointed Prefect of Quế Dương, and then Prefect of Lạng Giang. Afterwards he was promoted as a province official, holding posts such as Plantation Commissioner, Surveillance Commissioner, Administration Commissioner, and ultimately Governor of Bắc Ninh.\n\nIn 1870-1871, Phạm Thận Duật took part in the campaign to neutralize bandits at the midlands border. In 1873, when the French, led by Francis Garnier, attacked the Hanoi citadel (see Conquest of Cochinchina), he was designated to govern Tonkin’s provinces and appoint temporary government officials, becoming Patrol of Hà Nội. In 1874, he was appointed Patrol of Bắc Ninh, executing a successful campaign to eliminate bandits in the north. In 1875, he became the assistant to Tôn Thất Thuyết, responsible for the administration of two provinces, Bắc Ninh and Thái Nguyên.\n\nIn 1876, Phạm Thận Duật was summoned to Huế to become Advisor of the Ministry of Personnel, as well as Vice Chief Officer of the Censorate. After 4 months, he was sent to the north to be the commissioner overseeing the maintenance of the Red River’s floodbank and irrigation. In 1878, he was summoned to the Privy Council to become the mentor for emperor Tự Đức's princes Dục Đức and Chánh Mông. Subsequently, he was put in charge of the National History Institute and the Imperial College. He was appointed principal editor of \"The Imperially Ordered Annotated Text Completely Reflecting the History of Vietnam\" by emperor Tự Đức in 1884.\n\nBefore the second French attack of Tonkin in 1882 (part of the Tonkin Campaign), Phạm Thận Duật had issued a secret report to the Huế court, laying out defensive measures against the enemy. He advocated for the construction of forts in critical mountainous areas, and anti-French military bases in Quảng Bình, Hà Tĩnh, with an especially large-scale one in Tân Sở, Quảng Trị. His plan was approved by the leading officials of the pro-confrontation faction of the court, Tôn Thất Thuyết and Nguyễn Văn Tường.\n\nPhạm Thận Duật headed the Nguyễn dynasty’s diplomatic corps to Tientsin, China before the 1883 Tet holiday to discuss a joint resistance campaign against the French, but it proved unsuccessful. In early 1884, he was appointed the Chief General in the signing of the 19-article Treaty of Huế on June 6, 1884, which formed the basis for the protectorates of Annam and Tonkin, and for French colonial rule in Vietnam during the next seven decades. After his death, the Vietnamese public, without knowledge of his role in the resistance, vilified him for this role in the signing of the treaty.\n\nWith the Treaty of Huế signed, French forces led by General Henri Roussel de Courcy arrived in Vietnam to take control of the country in mid-1885. de Courcy made demands that seemed to signal to the Vietnamese that his goal was to completely subjugate them: for example, he demanded to walk through the central doors of the palace, which only the Emperor could do. The Vietnamese, led by Phạm's fellow mandarins Tôn Thất Thuyết and Nguyễn Văn Tường, decided to launch a surprise attack against the French in a last-ditch effort for independence. Known as the \"Huế ambush\", it failed, and France seized the Huế royal palace.\n\nPhạm Thận Duật and other loyal mandarins fled with the young king Hàm Nghi to Tân Sở in Quảng Trị Province (where Phạm had previously advocated for the construction of a military base), and issued an edict calling upon Vietnamese people to rise up and \"aid the king\" (the English translation of “Cần Vương” is \"aid the king\"). This edict sparked the Cần Vương resistance, a large-scale insurgency against the French colonialists. The resistance had widespread support and was the strongest resistance the French had encountered since landing on Vietnamese soil in the 17th century. On July 29, 1885, while preparing to cross the sea and organize a resistance campaign in Tonkin, Phạm Thận Duật and his family were captured by the French.\n\nAfterward, Phạm Thận Duật was extradited to Huế. He refused bribery from the French colonialists, instead accepting a jail sentence in Côn Đảo. He was then later sentenced to exile in Tahiti. After 6 days on the ship on his way to Tahiti, suffering from diabetes, he died on October 23, 1885 in Malaysian waters.\n\nLegend has it that his body, dressed in white clothing, was put in a bag, and dropped into the ocean. Only after a few years did his relatives and fellow villagers learn of his death; they erected a token tomb in his village to commemorate his life. The tombstone was inscribed by Vũ Kế Xuân telling of his deeds and achievements, but it was buried face down in order to be concealed from the French colonial authorities.\n\nFor many years afterwards, because he had signed the Treaty of Huế, Phạm Thận Duật was seen as a French collaborator and a traitor to the Vietnamese. However, in 1975, the tombstone was unearthed and his role as a leader of the resistance was rediscovered. His tombstone was re-erected, celebrating his life and work as a patriotic scholar and staunchly anti-colonialist official in emperor Tự Đức's court.\n\nThree streets in Vietnam are now named after Phạm Thận Duật – one in Hanoi; one in District 2, Ho Chi Minh City; and one in downtown Ninh Bình city.\n\nIn addition, the Phạm Thận Duật Award is a prestigious prize awarded annually to the most excellent new doctoral theses in History Studies in Vietnam. Since 2000, the fund has given 92 prizes in total.\n"}
{"id": "36136909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36136909", "title": "Serer creation myth", "text": "Serer creation myth\n\nThe Serer creation myth is the traditional creation myth of the Serer people of Senegal, the Gambia and Mauritania. Many Serers who adhere to the tenets of the Serer religion believe these narratives to be sacred. Some aspects of Serer religious and Ndut traditions are included in the narratives contained herein but are not limited to them.\n\nThe Serer people have many , goddesses and \"Pangool\" (the Serer saints and ancestral spirits represented by snakes), but one supreme deity and creator called Roog (or Koox in the Cangin languages).\n\nSerer creation myth developed from Serer oral traditions, Serer religion, legends, cosmogonies. The specifics of the myth are also found in two main Serer sources: \"A nax\" and \"A leep\". The former is a short narrative for a short myth or proverbial expression, whilst the later is for a more developed myth. Broadly, they are equivalent to verbs and logos respectively, especially when communicating fundamental religious education such as the supreme being and the creation of the Universe. In addition to being fixed-Serer sources, they set the structure of the myth.\n\nThe creation myth of the Serer people is intricately linked to the first trees created on Planet Earth by Roog. Earth's formation began with a swamp. The Earth was not formed until long after the creation of the first three worlds: the waters of the underworld; the air which included the higher world (i.e. the sun, the moon and the stars) and earth. Roog is the creator and fashioner of the Universe and everything in it. The creation is based on a mythical cosmic egg and the principles of chaos.\n\nThere are slightly different and competing versions of the myth. However, there are more similarities than differences, and the differences complement each other in the greater understanding of Serer creation mythology. They all posits that, the Universe and everything in it were created by \"Roog\" (or \"Koox\" among the Cangin), and the creation of Planet Earth was a result of a swamp which the first tree grew within. The first three worlds created through a mythical egg and under the principles of chaos were: the waters of the underworld, the air including the higher world and earth. These three were the first primordial worlds created by the supreme being through \"thought\", \"speech\" and \"action\". Planet Earth was not created until long after the creation of these worlds. The contentious points are, which of the main sacred trees in Serer society (below) grew not just first, but also within the primordial swamp on Earth:\nThe importance of these trees are crucial to the formation of Earth, at least in the Serer worldview and their genesis are addressed in their relevant sections. Being the first tree does not necessarily equate to being the first living thing on Earth. In the creation myth, animals such as the jackal, hyena, the serpent and ostrich figure prominently in the competing creation narrative. In some narratives, trees and animals merge in order to justify their legitimacy. These mythical animals may be seen as sacred and totems, in the Serer totemic and sentient worldly-view of animals and nature in general. The significance of trees in the Serer creation myth does not mean the dwelling place of the supreme deity, neither do they mean the dwelling place of the devil. They are dwelling places for the sanctified ancestral spirits (\"Pangool\"). The cult of the tree is symbolic in Serer religion. The feminine world also played a crucial role in the creation process of the Universe and the first-humans. This is linked to the Serer philosophy of beauty and Serer-numbers found in Serer religious symbolism, with \"number 3\" symbolizing the feminine world, \"number 4\" the masculine world and \"number 7\" (3 + 4) representing balance and perfection, something the Serers try to achieve in their daily lives and the environment they find themselves in.\n\nBefore the existence of the Universe, Roog existed by itself. There was nothing but silence and darkness. The Serer notion of balance and perfection illustrates the creation of the higher spiritual order and corresponds to the motif of chaos. Its creation was the union of male and female principles, with Roog, the supreme transcendental principle entity, becoming the embodiment of an androgynous Godfather and Godmother. However, it is from the female component of the supreme being: \"Noo tiig tew\" (\"out of a female womb\" - ex utero), that the divine brought forth the ancestors of modern humans, with a \"female\", being the first to be created. There was a mythical speech − the first word[s] uttered by the supreme being. All the competing versions attest to that. This myth is the general consensus and represents the absolute truth in Serer primordial time. A major competing myth, also based on chaos, postulates that, there was originally a series of explosions. However, it agrees pretty much with the accepted view that trees and animals were the first to be created. Explosion first arose in the vegetable kingdom and the first tree \"Somb\", according to this myth, bursted, which the seeds of all the plant species in the world sprang out (from its trunk) covering Planet Earth with life. In all versions, Roog appears as both the creator and demiurge.\n\nSerer cosmogony is not as rich as the Dogon's. Religious and ethnic persecution of the Serers for several centuries had resulted in their migration to and fro. In spite of this turbulent history, the Serer people have the richest cosmogony of all the .\n\nThe Serers relates the creation myth and the role of speech in the formation of the Universe. Two Serer terms expresses the mythical creation word: \"A nax\" and \"A leep\". The former is a short narrative for a shorth myth or proverbial expression and is equivalent to a verb. The later (\"A leep\") is more advance and details the mythical creation word and the creation itself, introducing the myth with the phrase: \"Naaga reetu reet\" (so it was in the beginning), before narrating the event. From a global perspective, the two roughly corresponds to verb and logos, especially when communicating fundamental religious education relating to the supreme deity and the creation of the Universe. They form the structure and sources under which the creation narrative is based. \"A leep\", the logos, is fixed.\n\nThe creation of the Universe is based on several parts (see below):\n\nThe source of the Universe is attributed to the feminine and maternal nature of Roog. In Serer symbolism, the \"number 3\" is attributed to the feminine world. This number is the ingredient of the creation process. There were three essential elements, three parts of the cosmos and three worlds.\nThis triple rhythm of Roog and the cosmos is also found in women as the Serer myth relates it:\nThe phrase \"Tiig Tew\" is attributed to the feminine body of motherhood and is equivalent to the general saying of Mother Earth. The phrase \"No tiig tew\" translates to\n\"out of a female womb\" - ex utero. The language here is symbolic. The Serer religion and oral tradition confers to Roog some rather realistic aspects of the initial creation. There were three phases in the gestation of the creatures within the devine being:\nRoog did not create, nor did it engender all beings of all kinds. It simply created the archetypes, not the prototype of each species, but seven archetypes namely \":\"' the three essential elements (air, earth and water) and the top four seeds (the first tree, first animal and the first human couple - female, then male).\n\nThe genesis of the Universe is found in \"A nax\" and \"A leep\". Which posits that: \"In the beginning, there was nothing but darkness and silence until the pre-existent being, Roog, began the genesis of the world\" [the Universe]. The Serer oral tradition does not speak of Roog's gestation, probably due to cultural taboo, but only when the mythical word was uttered and what was uttered by the supreme being, which is found in \"A nax\". According to \"A nax\", the first mythical words spoken by Roog were:\n\n\"A leep\" details the scene of the primordial time in the following terms:\n\nWhich translates to:\n\nThe mythical words established the three worlds (water, air and earth) based on the prologue of the Serer genesis provided by \"A nax\". In \"A leep\", it gives the order in which they were created and elaborated on it. \"A leep\" posits that, with the words of Roog, the three worlds (the Universe) began to take shape. The first to be created was the deep sea waters (waters of the underworld); the second was air including the high heavens (\"Kuul na\", in Serer) such as the sun, the moon and the stars; and third was earth. However, the Earth was not one of the first primordial worlds to be formed. It will take a long time before the waters and the Earth were separated.\n\nThe creation of Planet Earth is based on the myth of \"Nqaul\" (a type of tree - \"mitragyna inermis\"). In this myth, the formation of the Earth was started by a swamp. Swamps are integral to and have parallels with this Nqaul. The foundation of Serer villages, towns, homes, etc., in many cases, began with a swamp, even today. \"Nqaul\" is also significant in the history of the Serers. At a time when rainfall were plentiful, during the rainy season, the founders of ancient Serer villages and towns were often surprise when the first rainfalls brought flooding (see Saltigue). Calibrated archaeological dating have shown that, many of the places they had chosen to settle next to were shoals. Serer tradition states, on one occasion, the flooding caused severe damage resulting in many people losing their homes, crops and food they had farmed. After the damage, the people who escaped returned to assess the damage and commiserated each other. They recalled an ancient myth − the myth of \"Nqaul\":\nThis phrase evokes the primordial swamp and the \"Nqaul\" tree which grew within the original swamp. This tradition is still retained by the Serers as the saying is so widespread in . It is a different kind of tree to \"Saas\" (acacia albida). Whilst some Serer sources postulates that the \"Saas\" was the first tree on Earth, the Serer oral tradition states that the \"Saas\" was not \"Nqual\" (the original tree in the swamp). Instead, \"Saas\" is attributed to one of the sacred trees useful for overall-bodily health. Another sacred tree − the \"Nquƭ\", is also thought to have been the first tree. However, the general consensus is that the \"Nquƭ\" which has the properties to cure snakebite grew on the river bank whilst \"Nqual\" grew inside the primordial swamp.\n\nAccording to the Serer narrative, this initial islet was not static, but animated by a whirl around the axis of the world. The Serers were able to symbolize the Earth's axis and the whirl in a geometrical diagram. In Serer cosmology, the diagram depicts two crossed lines representing the rotational motion and the intersection points representing the axis of the world. One of the lines depicts the axis running from east to west, the other from north to south. Simultaneously, they are the Empyrean Heaven where the supreme deity is said to have given way to the first elements. In the myth, Roog is portrayed as the mythical deity who somehow \"turned its self on\". As the deity rotate in space, its rapid motions expanded with the primordial world it had first created. Roog's motion also affected the axis of the cosmos. The vital energies it had emitted, rotated in a spiral motion thereby creating the celestial objects.\n\nSince the time of the ancient Serer Lamanes, the Serer people have represented the axis of the world in the form of a stele, symbolizing the steles of Roog. In the Serer home, sometimes in the courtyard, they represent the most sacred place of the house servicing as the centre of gravity of divine energies and one of the poles of the coronation. In the home, these steles are made of wooden slabs, forming a sacred wood. Sometimes they are raised steles supported by three rods and sometimes they are just green trees. There symbolism can be celestial or terrestrial depending on the arrangement of rods that surround them. If there are twelve rods arranged in a circle, they symbolize the celestial world, four rods forming a square symbolizes the earthly world. They are always built based on the tenets of Serer symbolism, and form the family shrine devoted to the supreme being (see Serer ancient history).\n\nThe creation of the first trees and vegetation are preserved in the Serer oral tradition. The Serer religion offer guidance based on the primordial seed. This has been a matter of interpretation, and such, there are competing versions as to which trees were first created and the order in which they appeared. In Serer society, trees are viewed as sacred entities and some trees are afforded higher religious status depending on the Pangool (the ancient Serer saints and ancestral spirits represented by snakes) affiliated with them, their medicinal and spiritual value to Serer life, etc. Some are also associated with certain Pangool (singular: \"Fangool\"). The Serer priestly class (the Saltigues), guardians of Serer religion, sciences and ethics, still cannot agree on which tree was first created on Earth nor the order in which the first trees appeared. These differences are probably due to the vast areas the proto-Serers once inhabited. At present, the \"Nqaul\" (proper: \"NGawul\", var: \"Ngaul\" or - mitragyna inermis) and \"Nquƭ\" tree represents the orthodox and prevailing Serer view, hence in the myth of Earth's creation, a planet which was supposed to have come about as a result of a primordial a swamp, the \"Nqaul\" tree grew within the swamp whilst the \"Nquƭ\" grew on the river bank thereby making them the first trees on Earth according to the Serer creation mythology, with \"Nqaul\" taking precedence as it grew within the primordial swamp. In the creation myth, \"Saas\" is afforded high spiritual and medicinal status as one of the ancient trees, and form part of Serer representation of the Universe. However, it was not the original tree, and it was the tree that fell in \"disgrace\" after it tried to \"abuse its powers\".\n\nApart from being the first tree and linked to Earth's creation, many of the original narratives of \"Nqaul\" has been lost to history. In , it is used both as a medicinal and veterinary plant for curing various ailments. The leaves are used against fever, hypertension and to stimulate the intestine; bark decoction for diuretic and to stimulates the intestines against hypertension and fever, etc. The barks are also applied to wounds in order to improve the healing process.\n\nThe \"Nquƭ\" tree (proper: \"NGuƭ\", variation: \"Ngud\" - guiera senegalensis) is highly prized for its medicinal properties and is used for curing different kinds of illnesses, wounds and snakebites. Traditional Serer healers specializing in snakebites often use the dried powder in their therapies.\n\nIn the Serer narrative, the roots of the tree were believed to move in the underworld for survival. After the initial trees were created, then came other trees. These new trees would send their roots to the closest \"Nquƭ\" in order to feed from it before starting their overwintering. After waiting out the winter months, the nourishment they had received from the \"Nquƭ\" prior to their overwintering increased their trunk growth.\nAt that time, trees moved and talked. They were migratory trees. They sank deep into the underworld during the day and reappeared at night. The tree is seen as the \"tree of luck and good health\". In the village of \"Lang o Maak\" (now part of present-day Senegal), the tree is venerated: \"xu'doox o'baal\" (big \"guiera senegalensis\" tree in the shape of a pot). At the time of the ancients, the tree appeared one night and everyone saw it. Someone tried to cut it down and he ended up dead.\n\nThe Serers believed that, all trees are like human beings and animals out of the same divine placenta and share the same fate and destiny.\n\nThe \"Saas\" tree (in Serer and some Cangin languages, var: \"Sas\") is the acacia albida tree.\n\nSerer advocates for \"Saas\" postulates that, the \"Saas\" is the tree of life, and therefore, the origin of life on Earth. Others reject that view, and posits that \"Saas\" was not the tree that grew within the primordial swamp and therefore, not the original tree. However, Saas is afforded religious and medicinal status useful for overall bodily health and is viewed as one of the ancient trees but not the original tree. Like the \"Nqual\" tree, many of the original narratives have been lost to history. In these contrasting views, some postulates that, the \"Saas\" narrative seems to fit the wider West African creation myth in terms of behaviour and judgement, and any scholar of Serer mythology on the origins of life cannot overlook the importance of \"Saas'.\n\nIn this myth, the transcendence is reported to have infused with the acacia seed vital for energy, and the Saas played a pivotal role in the transmission of life.\nIt is believed that, the Saas was once a living tree. The narrative went on to say that, women who wanted to give birth went to it because it was considered to be a lucky tree in the wider Serer mythology and legend. Newborns were also presented to the Saas in order to bring good luck, long life, good health and prosperity to the child’s life. In similarity, if an animal went near Saas it was destined to live a long life. According to the myth, the Saas loved human beings and perhaps too much. It would sometimes lower its thorny ends so people can give it a hug. Anyone who saw that immediately knew the Saas wanted their company. It did not move until sunset. It healed the wounded by its barks being rubbed on the bleeding wound. The Saas eventually became exhausting for people when it started to abuse its supernatural powers. It is generally viewed as the tree that fell in disgrace. The ancients called it by the name \"Nyas\", a name which has two meanings: scar or clot. The Myth of Saas still retains a certain degree of importance especially when it concerns the need for vital energy such as: during growth, at the time of marriage, in sickness and after death. It is also viewed by many as the fertility tree. In the Serer representation of the Universe, the \"Myth of Saas\" forms part of the geometric diagram.\n\nThe Saas is believed to possess fertilizing qualities which is concentrated in its green branches and moisture. These fertilizing components may only be abstracted by the use of its own symbol, communicated through prayer. At the birth of a child, a branch of Saas was deposited at the top of an enclosure where the child and his/her mother remains in seclusion for eight days (the \"Bat\" ceremony). The ritual was to ward of evil spirits and as such, a small Saas from a crossroad was chosen. The ritual demands the branch to be placed at the top of the enclosure when the child is asleep, whilst the person performing the ritual cite the appropriate prayers. A small stick of Saas is also worn on the waist by young boys and girls in order to preserve their future fertility. At weddings, a stick of the plant is deposited under the bed of the newlywed in order to improve the fertility of the couple.\n\nSaas also played a major role in ancient Serer funerals. As well as accompanying the dead with grave goods, a stick of Saas was placed inside the tomb of a dead Serer. The purpose of this ritual was to help the dead move on to \"Jaaniiw\" (the abode of souls). If this ritual was not performed, the souls of the dead are believed to remain in the living world to the dismay of the living. A stick of Saas (with the Serer-viaticum) in their tomb helps them in their journey to the next life. When Serer men finish off burying the dead, they used to wash their hands in a calabash placed at the entrance of the house. This calabash contained branches of Saas soaked in water. Unlike the trees of the savannah that lose their leaves during the dry season, the Saas is green throughout the dry and rainy seasons. In effect, the Saas was and still is considered by the Serers as a tree of life.\n\nThe Saas tree has an economic value to the Serers. Its dual economic role benefits both the agricultural and pastoral Serers. A Saas tree in a field of millets increases millet production. The leaves fertilize the soil, the branches and fruit act as a sort of meadow which saves air thereby preventing Serer herds from starvation. There is also a relationship between Saas density per hectare and the demographic pressure per hectare. An abundant Saas allows crop rotation and intensive farming such as the triangular Diohine-Ngayokhem-Ñakhar (parts of ). In spite of the allegations levied against it by the ancients, many Serers still believe \"Saas\" to be the tree of life, the sacred and the transcendence.\n\nBased on the myth of \"Mbos\" (gardenia ternifolia), the \"mbos\" was the first tree created by the supreme being. However, it grew and kept growing until it reached the supreme being. The creator deity got angry with it, cut off its head and said: \"Tree of mbos, return to Earth\". Shamed by the words of the deity, the mbos tree quickly returned to earth with its branches intertwined so that no one can climb it or pass under its shadow. When Roog created the ancestors of modern humans (\"maak\" - the great or elder), these ancient beings according to the myth hid under the mbos tree. After the creation of these beings, Roog created the \"dong\" (the younger). These new beings, wondered the earth trying to find the \"maak\", whom they found hidden under the mbos tree. From that day on, the mbos tree became much in demand for making protective charms. In Serer symbolism, the mbos is the symbol of protection. Mbos means miscarriages, as in the song chanted at night by the initiates in Ndut classical teachings: \"Wagoxaam Mbos\" (I locked myself in the Mbos), a song with hidden meaning.\n\nThe baobab tree (\"mbudaay-baak\") also holds great religious significance among the Serers and in Serer religion. Like most revered trees in Serer mythology, before this tree can be cut (which is very rare), it is customary to cite the incarnation prayer (\"jat, muslaay, leemaay\") to the axe before cutting the tree down. In the myth, the baobab is seen as a \"migratory tree\" and thus linked to the first trees on Earth. It can also be an altar and in certain circumstances, a sacred burial place.\n\nAfter the ancients lost confidence in the \"Saas\", the \"Somb\" tree (prosopis africana a species of prosopis) was adopted. The \"Somb\" is one of the largest and most mysterious trees found in Serer country. Its wood is very hard and resistant to rot. It is harder than cailcedrat and Okoumé. It is the same wood found in the Serer tumuli that are still intact for over a thousand years. The pegs lining the burial chamber of the Serer notables mummified and interned in their tombs have not been not eaten away by termites and are still intact in spite of the passage of time. In 1976-8, Descamp and his team carried out an archaeological excavation of these ancient sites. Gold, silver, armour (a golden pectoral in particular), metal and other grave goods were found in these burial chambers. The town Somb, in present-day Senegal, took its name from this tree. The Somb tree is the symbol of immortality in Serer religious symbolism. The \"Somb\" is viewed as the Tree of Life by most Serers who adhere to the tenets of Serer religion. That is the orthodox view. In the creation myth, it is the only tree that provides a strong challenge to the \"Nqual\" tree. While \"Nqual\" was the first three on Earth since it grew within the primordial swamp, the Somb tree, is the seed that produced it and all the plant species that populated the world.\n\nThe creation of Somb by the supreme being is found within the hermeneutics of Serer religion and traditions. By thought, Roog first plotted the shapes of all the trees or plant species yet to come. Through the mythical words, Roog fashioned its placenta on the primordial seed − the seed of the \"Somb\" tree. Within this seed, Roog placed all the plant species including their reproductive energies − male and female. Through its feminine principle, Roog opened up and \"projected the germ of Somb\" which became the bearer of all the plant species found on earth and the underworld. The Somb seed penetrated the earth, the placenta of Roog where it took root and grew. Growing from this placenta, it kept all the plant species within its trunk. When it became a big tree, its trunk swelled diminutively and opened up as if by caesarean section or explosion. From this event, it opened up all the plant species found on Earth, and the rotational movement of the Universe scattered them all over the world.\nThus, the vegetable seeds fashioned in the divine egg and deposited in the Somb, brought forth by Roog, were projected into space at the time of the explosion of Somb. This is how the Earth began to be covered with grass, plants and trees. Thus the vegetable seeds were modeled within the supreme being (Roog) and its outputs ex utero. The primordial mythical tree − Somb, was the vector and transmitter of these seeds, carrying their own principles of reproduction. Fertalized by these germs of life, the wetland was carpeted with vegetation and the first forests came into being.\n\nThere are two main varying versions regarding the creation of the first animals (non-humans). In both versions, the jackal is believed to be the first animal on Earth, and in accordance with the prevailing Serer view. Though there are differences in the interpretation, they converge on certain points in the wider understanding of the jackal's significance in Serer mythology. In one aspect, the jackal can be viewed as an Earth-diver sent to Earth by Roog, in another, as a fallen prophet for disobeying the laws of the divine. In one narrative, the myth does not mention it by name, but only allude to it or when it does, the negative connotations are made obscure, because of its former closeness to the divine before it was disgraced for disobeying the laws of Roog from whose womb it grew out of.\n\nThe creation of the original animals comes from the myth of Ɓoxo-koƥ (var: \"o ɓoox o koƥ\" or \"boxo-kob\") which translates to: the dog of the forest (the jackal).\n\nIn the first narrative, the creation was marked by the emergence of the acacia and the jackal. The following narrative provide further information on the behaviour of the jackal though obsecurely:\n\nThe narrative provides a second indication of the behavior of the jackal during the crisis of the first creatures created by Roog. As one of the first animals on Earth that sprang out of first divine placenta, it desicicated the subsequent placenta from which the next phase of Roog's creation where to sprang out of.\nThe text is deliberately obscure. Respect for the supreme being and all the entities incurred in the genesis of the Universe is key in Serer religion and tradition as well as the jackal myth which was close to Roog before being transformed into the dog of the forest (or \"pale fox\" according to some). This is why it is not named, but only by allusion. The jackal was the first intelligent creature on earth, before the arrival of humans. It is believed that will still remain on earth after human beings have returned to the divine. The Serers believe that, not only does it know in advance who will die, but it traces the tracks in advance of those who will go to funerals. The movements of the jackal are carefully observed, because the animal is viewed as a seer who came from the transcendence and maintains links with it. Although believed to be rejected in the bush by other animals and deprived of its original intelligence, it is still respected because it dared to resist the supreme being who still keeps it alive.\n\nIssa Laye Thiaw's \"myth de la creation de sereers\" provides a further account on the jackal. In this myth, it is named and damned but the narrative is still obscure:\n\nAccording to the legend of \"Ɓoxo-koƥ\" (dog of the forest or \"wild dog\" (figuritively) - \"jackal\"), the jackal was the first living thing created by the supreme deity \"Roog\". The jackal circled the world in a day and two of its hands were transformed into paws. The supreme being gave it the \"ngud\" tree (guiera senegalensis) and thus \"ngud\" became the first tree and the second thing created by Roog. After the creation of ngud, the \"nalafun\" tree (combretum paniculatum) was created to whom the deity told: \"Go and keep the ngud tree company, it is lonely\". During the life cycle of the nalafun, the tree grow so tall that it headed towards the sky. The supreme being considered that an affront and gave it a sharp flick on the head (\"mak\" in Serer) and told it: \"You are rude. Go! Turn around and go back to where you've just came from\". After that event, the nalafun never grew tall as it once did and was always bent.\n\nAnother narrative indicates that, all animals (non-humans) were created by some form of world parent, except the jackal. In this myth, Roog went through a period of gestation. By thought, Roog planned this new creation, the animal world. By the mythical words, Roog realized the divine placenta and the internal gestation of the animal embryo called \"Mbocor\". Roog then placed in the embryo of this animal, which was the largest of the creation, which included the eggs or seeds of all animals to come, including their organisms and reproductive energies. After the gestation period, Roog projected the embryo of the Mbocor on Earth, which carried all the animals species on Earth. The embryo of Mbocor acclimatized to the earth, feeding on grass and water. It grew rapidly reaching a considerable proportion, as it carried within it the germs of animal life. At the final stages of the gestation of the eggs and embryos that were within it, the animal ripped apart and released all the species within it. The female animals were created first, some spreading on land, in water, the mythical sea, etc. After delivering these animals, the Mbocor died, but animal life which came from the creator deity, spread through the world.\n\nAlthough Mbocor was sacrificed in order to bring animal life on Earth, the narrative is imprecise on the identity of this animal. Some postulates that it was probably the largest animal in Africa, perhaps a pachyderm such as: hippopotamus, rhinoceros, elephant, etc. The word \"Mbocor\" means \"The Mother\" (or \"Mother\" in old Serer) − mother of all animals except the jackal. It is also probable that \"Mbocor\" is the same as \"Ɓoxo-koƥ\" (the dog of the forest − \"jackal\"). However, at present, nobody knows what kind of animal \"Mbocor\" was. In any case, the Ɓoxo-koƥ (i.e. the jackal) is believed by most Serers who adhere to the tenets of Serer religion to be the first living thing that the deity Roog (or Koox) put on Earth\n\nThe serpent is linked to Serer cosmology and mythology. The serpent itself is the symbol of the Pangool (ancient Serer saints or ancestral spirits). Fangool, the singular of Pangool means serpent in Serer language. The \"Yaal Pangool\" are the masters of the cult. In Serer mythology, there is a relationship between trees and the serpent. In the Serer religion, the reincarnation of souls is a strongly held belief. When the dead leave the world of the living,\ntheir souls or \"double\" transforms into an animal, usually a snake, hence why it is taboo in Serer culture to kill snakes. The Serer religion posits that, the souls of the dead must make their way to \"Jaaniiw\" (the abode of good souls). The transformation into snakes (usually a black snake) is one of the first phases of their effort to reach \"Jaaniiw\". As they transform themselves into snakes, they hide in trees. A snake hiding in a tree has two main symbolic meanings. It can either mean that a person has died and his soul has \"reincarnated\" (\"ciiɗ\" in Serer language) or a person may die. If the latter is the case, then killing a snake would trigger their early death.\n\nThe \"ngaan mbul\" tree (celtis integrifolia) or \"a mboy xa nafad\" in particular, holds great significance in this reincarnation process. This tree supports the dual serpent-man, beneath which is a big hole where the undead take residence.\n\nLike the serpent and other animals, the cayman and the manatee also holds significance in Serer mythology. The cayman is the guardian of the secrets of the past whilst the mantee holds the secrets of the future.\n\nThe Serer account regarding origins of the stars is found in Serer cosmology, especially the Star of \"Yoonir\" (in Serer and Cangin) more commonly known as the Star of Sirius, Serer-numbers and symbolism.\n\"Yoonir\" (Sirius) is the Serer representation of the Universe and the transcendence. Its five branches symbolize humans on Earth, standing up with their heads held high, their hands raised, which symbolizes work and prayer. The star is spread across the heavens and on Earth figuratively, symbolizing the sign of the supreme deity (Roog or Koox) and the image of man. In Serer-numbers, three important numbers came into play at the time of the initial creation: number 3, number 4 and number 7. Number 3 represents the feminine world as well as the divine; number 4 represents the masculine world as well as humans, and number 7 represents the divine in human beings, which is the perfect number and represents balance or harmony. Number 3 evokes the celestial world and is represented by a circle. As in the Serer home, the twelve rods arranged in a circle around the stele of Roog symbolizes the space enveloped by the powers of the divine. Number 3 is thus the symbolic number of Roog whilst number 4 evokes the human and terrestrial world (the visible world). This Earthly world is represented by two crossed lines facing the four cardinal points. In addition to , it is for this religious reason why Serer women are allowed to participate in all religious, political and , because they share the same number with the divine who created the Universe through its feminine principle. For the Serer men, their number is 4. Fixed to the four cardinal points of the Earth, they were the \"Masters of the Earth\" (the Lamanic class).\n\nThe origins of the stars offers a somewhat contradictory account, and is linked to a pact between the ostrich and the divine. According to the myth, the ostrich stood on a sandy valley looking around the wooded savannah that stretched around her. Feeling that the time had come to perform the immemorial gesture of its kind, it was immobilized due to the threats posed to its offspring. Each time it had managed to hide its eggs from other animals but on this occasion, a deer was determined to have its offspring. Feeling powerless against the beast before her, the ostrich asked for Roog's protection and the supreme deity intervened by creating the stars, which inspired her to take her first stroke. Inspired by the powers of the deity, the ostrich drew five trails on the ground representing the stars of the heavens. The ostrich then invaded this space and deposited her eggs inside the star, covering them with sand. After that act, it cited the following prayer, placing herself and her offspring under the protection of the divine:\n\n\"Xu xabatna, ba mup!\n\nXu retna, ba gar!\n\nXu garna, ba ret!\n\nXu nutna ba ga!\n\nXu ga'na, ba nut!\n\nAdna, kitim kiris!\n\nMending meles!\n\nWegoram a nun a Roog,\n\nWagerna Roog, ba waag na mi tig!\"\n\n\"Who opens his mouth will close it again!\n\nWho closes his mouth will open it more!\n\nWho comes, he will not return!\n\nWho goes, he will return again!\n\nWho closes his eyes, that means more!\n\nWho sees, his eyes will be closed forever!\n\nEarth! Engulfed them in the dark!\n\nWithout issue and without remission!\n\nI enclose you, in the name of Roog!\n\nThey are powerless against Roog!\n\nNothing can be against me!\"\n\nThe other animals were unable to act against the offspring of the ostrich enclosed by the star thanks to Roog, who offered them total protection. Powerful predators also came to devour the eggs but they could not cross the lines engraved on the sand. The myth went on to say that a black shepherd witnessed the hatching eggs. After the departure of the ostrich with her offspring, he came to the scene and discovered the star engraved on the spot where the eggs hatched. He understood that the star protected the eggs of the ostrich with the assistance of the supreme deity. It is for this reason Serer mums evoke the ostrich in their prayers for the protection of their children on their departure to another country.\n\nApart from evoking the ostrich, the myth plays a significant role in the adoption of the new religious symbol (the star) and its transmission to humankind. It is above all \"the beginning of the eggs\" of the ostrich. The Star \"Yoonir\" is a religious symbol in the Serer religion. Its five branches are marked and observed in the classical Ndut teachings. It is a Serer star and the symbol of the Serer people of Sine. It has religious, medicinal and nationalistic connotations among the Serers.\n\n\"Guloxaar\" is a psalm devoted to the Sun-god as the ancestors of the Serer people used to worship the Sun – many still do (see also Serer ancient history). The word \"Guloxaar\" in simple Serer means the Sun. In a religious sense, it means \"one who is bound to come\". The Sun itself being a star, it is attached to the Serer creation myth. The oldest and most secret prayer is devoted to the Sun (excerpt):\nIn Serer\nIn English\n\nIn Serer\n\nIn English (verse 2)\n\nThese secret prayers are only revealed to young Serers on their journey to another country. It is only recited in the morning and at night, at sunrise and sunset. The second verse is a prayer of adoration. Beyond the star is the master of the Solar System who is evoked. The supreme being is represented by the Sun. The Sun's bright light is just the epiphany of its being. The prayer has mystical connotations.\n\nThe myth of \"Ngam\" (\"Ngam jam, o yas jam\") narrates the first time rain (the essence of life) appeared on planet earth. This narrative describes the event in a chaotic manner. According to this myth, the first event was the opening of the heavens by Roog. When the heavens were opened, the sky threatened with heavy and shadowy clouds. Tornado occurring in a straight line, swept through everything in its path, bearing thunder in the clouds. Bright lightning rendered the darkness, and the waters of the heavens first littered by the wind, splashed in every direction, before turning into regular, refreshing and nourishing showers.\n\nThe proverb \"Ngam jam, o yas jam\" (rain in peace! Sow in peace) is the first word Serer farmers utter during the first rain. It is also the way the Serers wish each other happy New Year. As well as an expression, it also a religious prayer. The first rain of the season is a pact between the transcendent power and humanity. It is a sign of life which continues to be transmitted by this tutelary power, which has long respected the pact. Custom dictates that, the first three steps on the damp earth of the first rain to be made barefooted in order to connect with mother nature. The father or the mother of the family would be given a calabash of the water of the first rain, for the whole family to drink. This water is holy and is viewed as sacred which would protect them from all misfortunes that may occur during the rainy season. Under the Saas tree, containers were placed under it to collect the water that touches the tree. This water was used for bathing as a sign of protection.\n\nBefore humans existed, there were three stages in the creation of the Universe and each of these steps followed a consistent order. The first phase was the first three elements: air, earth and water. The mythical words of Roog found in \"A nax\", led to the formation of the heavens, earth and the sea.\nThe second phase of the creation was the primordial trees (i.e. Somb, Nqaul, Nquƭ, etc.,). The third phase was the creation of the animal world: the jackal and \"Mbocor\" (which means \"The Mother\") - mother of all animals except the jackal. In each of these phases, and before the creation of the first human couple, the supreme deity did not directly create each species, but only the primogenitors who then went on to populate the world with all the species of plant and animal life.\nThe same was the case at the creation of the first humans. By thought, the supreme deity planned for the creation of human beings (a female and a male). By words, Roog went through a gestation phase which signalled the gestation of man and woman, paired within the divine placenta. Through its maternal nature, Roog projected a female and male human being as in childbirth. The first human was a female, named YAAB. The second human was a male named YOP (var: \"YOB\").\n\nYAAB and YOP were the first humans that walked the Earth according to the narrative. The ancient and sacred village of Yaabo-Yabo (var: Yaboyabo or \"YABO-YABO\", in present-day Senegal) also derives its name from this couple.\n\nThe ark of Yaabo-Yabo is believed to be an ancient relic. It is said that the first humans on Earth (YAAB and YOP - female and male respective) boarded this ark when they left the Empyrean Heaven after their creation by the supreme deity (Roog). This relic is believed to be under the guardianship of Yaabo-Yabo, one of the sacred villages in Serer religion. However, it is one of the sacred Serer relics which holds great religious significance.\n\nThe relic exist to the present which is well respected. Most Serer houses have in their possession ancient relics from the past including furniture which are jealousy guarded. Some are religious while others are secular. The ark of Yaabo-Yabo is in wood, believed to be made from the \"Somb\" tree. In the Serer pre-colonial Kingdom of Sine, it is called \"MAAK\" (var: \"Maak\"), except in Diohine (a former territory of Sine in ) where it is called \"Badir\". Guarded by the elders, it is shaped like a bench. It is believed that, when YAAB and YOP were born to Roog in its Empyrean Heaven, they were deposited in an ark and carried down to Earth. YAAB was the first to arrive as she was the first born then followed by YOP. When they arrived on Earth, the original twins made contact with Mother Earth who would nourish them.\n\nThe legend of \"Unan\" and \"Ngoor\" probably dates back to the Iron Age, with Unan being the woman and Ngoor the man. Although not the first human couple that the supreme deity Roog (or Koox) had created, like the legend of Jambooñ and Agaire (see the Point of Sangomar), they form a fundamental part of Serer mythology. The legend agrees pretty much with the general consensus that a female was created first then a male. But in this narrative, it attempts to place Unan and Ngoor as the first human couple.\n\nThe talismans were to protect them from the supernatural being that had entered their realm.\n\nThe name \"Unan\" means one who pile millet, figuratively, \"the norisher\". \"Ngoor\" (or \"Ngor\") is a name for a virile man. These names denote the function of the woman and the man but they are not their real names.\nThe narrative evokes the first humans created by Roog with a female being the first, and the trials they had faced. It also evokes the name of Roog, regarded as the Omnipotence, whom through his paternal nature, acted as a good father and moved the woman to a more comfortable place when she complained about her discomfort. It shows that he is always available to his children. The appearance of the man initially surprised the woman, whom she named \"Ngoor\" (virile), yet, they later became companions and procreated.\n\nOriginally, all the animals on Earth lived together with human beings and trees in harmony. However, this peaceful habitation of the Earth came to an abrupt end when one of the lions impregnated a girl causing her to give birth to a monkey, a half man-half beast. The male society of this distant past were furious and summoned all the animals to a hearing in order to determine the culprit. The lion fearing for the punishment that it may receive from these men, refused to identify itself as the one responsible for the act until a dog pointed it out as the culprit. A war broke out between the human population, the non-human animals and the trees. The humans were victorious and drove the animals in the bush except the dog who became man's companion. However, the crisis did not end there, as this narrative from \"A leep\" shows:\n\nThe narrative reflects human hostility towards animals especially the lion, \"the savage beast\". The original cause of the war also identifies the monkey, whose predecessors in that ancient past is believed to be closer to humans, like all animals and plant, from the same divine placenta.\"\n\nIt also represents a microcosm of the slaughtering of animals by humans, accompanied by their dogs in their hunting camps subsequent to the initial creation. Not only did men hunted animals, but trees cut down those closest to them and animals killed each other, as found in the myth of the hyena and the talking tree. This disorder led to Roog's direct intervention and its reoganisation of the Universe which the narrative says would have repercussions for Planet Earth.\n\nAfter the initial crisis on Planet Earth where humans, animals and plants fought against each other, Roog intervened and punished them all. The tradition states that, Roog was the father and mother of its creation who initially afforded some freedom to its first creation. However, after the first disorder, Roog organised the world on new foundations. That reorganisation was not a second creation but it would have profound effects on the Universe and particularly on Earth.\nRoog manifested its powers and will continue to manifest it. Serer phrases such as \"Roog alone is king\" and \"We all come from the hand of Roog\" are examples of conscience decision of divine intervention in the events of life, as in the destiny of nations and human kind. Roog will be present in the activities of humans and the cosmos.\nThough the trees were the hardest hit by their immobility, trees were afforded special status, such as the tree of life, ability to heal, homes to certain spiritual entities and ability to hear humans beings even the Pangool. They are the object of respect in Serer society. Deforestation in Serer country is almost unheard of.\n\nAnimals were also severely affected by Roog's judgement. Although rendered wild and \"mad\", they still retain their instinct, though their relations with humans would be changed forever. Some became human pets others retained their freedom away from human habitation. Despite this separation, animals are respected and would form part of Serer temism.\n\nHumans were the least affected. The only thing they have lost was their original size and duration of life. Along with being giants, the first humans were believed to have had larger eyes and bigger bones than the present. Roog did not touch the human spirit. Instead, it allowed them to develop their minds and put their own branding on Earth.\n\nIn Serer cosmogony, the Universe is represented schematically. There were three worlds: the invisible world from above; the diurnal terrestrial world and the noctanal world. A geometric representation of these three worlds form the Serer star.\nThe invisible world from above is the source of energies and life. The diurnal Earthly world (e.g. the sun) is divided into two strands: the \"Saas\" tree symbolizing the tree of life and human beings assisted by the noctanal world (the \"Pangool\"). The nocturnal world depicts the role of the moon, the \"Pangool\" (ancient Serer saints and ancestral spirits), \"Ciid\" (proper, var: \"Ciiƭ\" or \"Cyid\", the disembodied souls in search of re-hominisation or reincarnation) and \"Jaaniiw\" or \"Honolu\" (the sacred abode of the departed souls). After a sacrifice of domestic animals and/or offering of millet to the Pangool and ancestors, vital energies are returned.\n\nThe invisible world represents the vital energies which originates from the transcendent powers of Roog, which spreads worldwide. The supreme being is the source of all life in the cosmos as well as human beings. In the world of Roog, certain entities and elevated humans are afforded sacredness and called upon to live with Roog. They form the demi-goods, saints and ancestral spirits (Pangool), etc.\n\nThe diurnal terrestrial world is represented around a network of topical or utopian transcendence. Topically, it is centred around the sacred, people or accessible places. Utopianly, it resides in the imagination. There are two types of people on Earth: visible human beings and the invisible, living far away from human beings with their own paths and dwelling place. These invisible people, reside in the souterrain world.\n\n\"Jaaniiw\" is the abode where the souls of the dead go. Their star is not the sun (the star which illuminates the diurnal world), but the moon which illuminates the activities of the night and beings of the night. Flying from \"Jaaniiw\" to \"Ciid\", their aim is to return to earth for a new course of human evolution.\n\nJust as the Serer religion has influenced the religious beliefs of Senegambia, Serer mythology has also influenced . Some of the most revered art in Senegambia, particularly in Senegal where the Serers make up the third largest ethnic group are based on Serer mythology, legends and . Some of these include the works of Safi Faye (i.e. Mossane and Kaddu Beykat), works of first president of Senegal the late Léopold Sédar Senghor (\"Chants pour Signare\", a poem inspired by the legend of Jambooñ and Agaire at the Point of Sangomar, \"Chants d'ombre\" and \"Aux tirailleurs Sénégalais morts pour la France\"). The Sangomar legend also inspired president Senghor to name the Senegalese presidential plane purchased in 1978 after \"Sangomar\". Other works influenced by Serer mythology, legend and culture include: Fama Diagne Sène's \"Mbilem ou le baobab du lion\" (a controversial play which alienated the Serer priestly class - the Saltigues), Yandé Codou, la griotte de Senghor by Yandé Codou Sène, Papa Amadou Fall and Cheikhou Coulibaly's \"Yatal Gueew\" (widening the circle) for the 2001 Senegalese election campaign, the mbalax which originated from the Serer njuup tradition, popularised by Youssou N'Dour and (see Ndut initiation rite), etc. From a global perspective, they include the work of Catherine Clément, Steve Cox and Ros Schwartz's - \"Theo's Odyssey\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32898703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32898703", "title": "Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society", "text": "Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society\n\nThe Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society was founded in 1849. The Society bought Taunton Castle in 1874, and leases it to Somerset County Council to house the Museum of Somerset. A substantial proportion of the items held by the Museum were originally collected by the Society. Since it opened in 2010, the Society's office and library have been located at the Somerset Heritage Centre, alongside the County Council's Heritage Service.\n\nThe society was founded in 1849, by members of Taunton's society who had an interest in history and archeology and by 1851 it had grown to 420 members. It was originally based at the Victoria Rooms in Taunton until in 1874, the society purchased Taunton Castle for its new base of operations. The castle was purchased for £2,850 () and the society funded repairs to the castle, including a new roof for the large 'Somerset Room' in 1884, the refitting of the Great Hall to be a museum in 1899, and the creation of a library in 1908. \n\nThe society was responsible for excavations at Glastonbury Abbey during the early 20th century, but the Director of Excavations, Frederick Bligh Bond, had to be dismissed as he claimed he had been helped by ghosts of Glastonbury monks. The present museum at the castle was fitted during mid 20th century, and around the same time the 18th century staircase from St Mary Redcliffe's vicarage was installed in the Great Hall. Taunton Castle is now leased to Somerset County Council and it's museum has become the Museum of Somerset.\n\nThe Society has published an annual journal, the \"Proceedings\", since 1851 which contains scholarly papers on research into the history, archaeology and ecology of Somerset. It also occasionally publishes books, most recently a transcription of \"Edmund Rack's Survey of Somerset\", a comprehensive survey of the county carried out in the late eighteenth century.\n\nProfessor Mick Aston, well-known due to his involvement with the \"Time Team\" archaeology programmes on Channel 4, was a member and Past President of the Society, and regularly contributed papers to the \"Proceedings\".\n\nRobin Bush, the archivist and historian, was Chairman of the Somerset Archaeological and Natural History Society in 1983–84.\n"}
{"id": "58074429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58074429", "title": "The Association for Women with Large Feet", "text": "The Association for Women with Large Feet\n\nThe Association for Women with Large Feet was a British organization founded by Airton resident Mrs. Phyllis Crone in 1949. It lobbied for clothing manufacturers to better provide for tall women. Members had to be at least 5 feet 8 inches tall.\n\nThe Association was originally formed to convince footwear manufacturers to provide more attractive options for women with larger shoe sizes. However, it expanded to lobby clothing manufacturers more generally to provide for tall women, with some success. The Association made direct approaches to manufacturers, and if they agreed to provide for tall women, their details were circulated to all members.\n\nThe group changed its name to The Association of Tall Women in October 1951 to increase its appeal and membership. There were reportedly 10 branches across the UK by this point, with members joining at a rate of around 50 per week. Membership fees were 3 shillings and 6 pence (3s 6d) per year. By 1952 the group was reported to have 2,000 members in London alone.\n\nAs part of their campaign, in 1952 the Association held a public display of clothing for taller women at a London department store. Successes included convincing stocking manufacturers to produce nylons with longer foot and leg measurements, \"ending a nightmare for taller women\", and the establishment of a London shop called \"Tall Girls\".\n"}
{"id": "53456301", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53456301", "title": "The Sensational Past", "text": "The Sensational Past\n\nThe Sensational Past: How the Enlightenment Changed the Way We Use Our Senses is a 2017 book by Carolyn Purnell on Enlightenment-era history of the senses.\n\n\"The Sensational Past\" was published by W.W. Norton on February 7, 2017. The 288-page book is organized in ten chapters on different aspects of ideas about sensory experience and the role senses played in social life, culture and science from 1690 to 1830, with the focus on interest in bodily sensation serving as a corrective to \"modern notions of the Enlightenment as being entirely concerned with rational rigor, logic and the scientific method.\" Writing in the \"Wall Street Journal\", historian Mark Smith described \"The Sensational Past\" as \"a brisk, jaunty and at times witty romp through the history of the senses in the long 18th century, filled with entertaining examples.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49825175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49825175", "title": "The Spanish Maze", "text": "The Spanish Maze\n\nThe Spanish Maze is a lost Jacobean stage drama whose author is unknown. It was performed at the court of King James I on 11 February 1605 by The King's Men, the acting company of William Shakespeare. It was one of ten plays performed there during the 1604-1605 holiday season, including seven by Shakespeare and two by Ben Jonson, and the only one of the ten now lost. A few scholars have suggested that \"The Spanish Maze\" was an early version of Shakespeare's \"The Tempest\".\n"}
{"id": "27986404", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27986404", "title": "Thomas Beamish Akins", "text": "Thomas Beamish Akins\n\nThomas Beamish Akins (February 1, 1809 – May 6, 1891) was a Canadian lawyer, historian, archivist, and author who was appointed Nova Scotia's first Commissioner of Public Records from 1857 until his death in 1891. He was designated a Person of National Historic Significance by the Government of Canada.\n\nThomas Beamish Akins was the son of Thomas Akins, a merchant, and Margaret Ott Beamish. Akins' father was a descendant of the original New England Planters of Falmouth, Nova Scotia settled in 1761; his mother was the daughter of Halifax merchant Thomas Beamish of Port Warden, Nova Scotia. Akins was an only child, his mother having died ten days after his birth, he was raised by her family in Halifax, where he attended Halifax Grammar School. He studied Law and was called to the Nova Scotia bar on 3 May 1831.\n\nAmong his published works were his \"History of Halifax\" and \"A Sketch of the Rise and Progress of the Church of England in the British North American Provinces\" (Halifax, 1849), \"A Brief Account of the Origin, Endowment and Progress of the University of King’s College, Windsor, Nova Scotia\" (Halifax, 1865), and an article, \"\"The First Council\",\" in the Collections of the Nova Scotia Historical Society for 1879–80. He served as president of the Nova Scotia Historical Society from 1882–83 and was at the time of his death one of its vice-presidents. He was also an honorary or corresponding member of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec, the American Historical Association, and the historical societies of Massachusetts, Maryland, and Texas.\n\nAkins was a long-term member of the Royal Nova Scotia Historical Society.\n\nAkins' house from 1858 to 1891, located in Halifax, was designated a National Historic Site of Canada.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "719411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=719411", "title": "Timeline of Faroese history", "text": "Timeline of Faroese history\n\nThis is a timeline of Faroese history comprising important legal and territorial changes and political events in Iceland and its predecessor states. To read about the background to these events, see history of the Faroe Islands.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41391212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41391212", "title": "Timeline of women in mathematics in the United States", "text": "Timeline of women in mathematics in the United States\n\nThere is a long history of women in mathematics in the United States. All women mentioned here are American unless otherwise noted. \n\n1829: The first public examination of an American girl in geometry was held.\n\n1886: Winifred Edgerton Merrill became the first American woman to earn a PhD in mathematics, which she earned from Columbia University.\n\n1913: Mildred Sanderson published her theorem about modular invariants in her thesis. It states: “To any modular invariant i of a system of forms under any group G of linear transformations with coefficients in the GF[pn], there corresponds a formal invariant I under G such that I = i for all sets of values in the field of the coefficients of the system of forms.” She was Leonard Dickson’s first female graduate student, and he later wrote of her thesis, “This paper is a highly important contribution to this field of work; its importance lies partly in the fact that it establishes a correspondence between modular and formal invariants. Her main theorem has already been frequently quoted on account of its fundamental character. Her proof is a remarkable piece of mathematics.” E.T. Bell wrote, “Miss Sanderson’s single contribution (1913) to modular invariants has been rated by competent judges as one of the classics of the subject.”\n\n1927: Anna Pell-Wheeler became the first woman to present a lecture at the American Mathematical Society Colloquium.\n\n1943: Euphemia Haynes became the first African-American woman to earn a Ph.D. in mathematics, which she earned from Catholic University.\n\n1949: Gertrude Mary Cox became the first woman elected into the International Statistical Institute.\n\n1956: Gladys West began collecting data from satellites at the Naval Surface Warfare Center Dahlgren Division. Her calculations directly impacted the development of accurate GPS systems.\n\n1962: Mina Rees became the first woman to win the Yueh-Gin Gung and Dr. Charles Y. Hu Award for Distinguished Service to Mathematics, which is the most prestigious award made by the Mathematical Association of America.\n\n1966: Mary L. Boas published \"Mathematical Methods in the Physical Sciences\", which was still widely used in college classrooms as of 1999.\n\n1970: Mina Rees became the first female president of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.\n\n1971: Mary Ellen Rudin constructed the first Dowker space.\n\n1971: The Association for Women in Mathematics (AWM) was founded. It is a professional society whose mission is to encourage women and girls to study and to have active careers in the mathematical sciences, and to promote equal opportunity for and the equal treatment of women and girls in the mathematical sciences. It is incorporated in the state of Massachusetts.\n\n1971: The Joint Committee on Women in the Mathematical Sciences (JCW), was founded as a committee of the American Mathematical Society (AMS). It is now a joint committee of seven mathematical and statistical societies which works to identify mechanisms for the enhancement of opportunities for women in the mathematical and statistical sciences, recommend actions to the governing bodies of the member societies in support of these opportunities, and document its recommendations by presenting data.\n\n1973: Jean Taylor published her dissertation on “Regularity of the Singular Set of Two-Dimensional Area-Minimizing Flat Chains Modulo 3 in R3” which solved a long-standing problem about length and smoothness of soap-film triple function curves.\n\n1974: Joan Birman published the book \"Braids, Links, and Mapping Class Groups\". It has become a standard introduction, with many of today’s researchers having learned the subject through it.\n\n1975–1977: Marjorie Rice, who had no formal training in mathematics beyond high school, discovered three new types of tessellating pentagons and more than sixty distinct tessellations by pentagons.\n\n1975: Julia Robinson became the first female mathematician elected to the National Academy of Sciences.\n\n1979: Dorothy Lewis Bernstein became the first female president of the Mathematical Association of America.\n\n1979: Mary Ellen Rudin became the first woman to present the Earle Raymond Hedrick Lectures; these lectures were established by the Mathematical Association of America in 1952 to present to the Association a lecturer of known skill as an expositor of mathematics \"who will present a series of at most three lectures accessible to a large fraction of those who teach college mathematics.\"\n\n1981: Doris Schattschneider became the first female editor of \"Mathematics Magazine\", a refereed bimonthly publication of the Mathematical Association of America.\n\n1983: Julia Robinson became the first female president of the American Mathematical Society.\n\n1983: Julia Robinson became the first female mathematician to be awarded a MacArthur Fellowship.\n\n1988: Doris Schattschneider became the first woman to present the J. Sutherland Frame Lectures, which are presented at the summer meeting of the Mathematical Association of America.\n\n1992: Gloria Gilmer became the first woman to deliver a major National Association of Mathematicians lecture (it was the Cox-Talbot address).\n\n1995: Margaret Wright became the first female president of the Society for Industrial and Applied Mathematics.\n\n1996: Joan Birman became the first woman to receive the Chauvenet Prize, which is awarded annually by the Mathematical Association of America to the author of an outstanding expository article on a mathematical topic by a member of the association.\n\n1998: Melanie Wood became the first female American to make the U.S. International Math Olympiad Team. She won silver medals in the 1998 and 1999 International Mathematical Olympiads.\n\n2002: Melanie Wood became the first American woman and second woman overall to be named a Putnam Fellow in 2002. Putnam Fellows are the top five (or six, in case of a tie) scorers on The William Lowell Putnam Mathematical Competition.\n\n2004: Melanie Wood became the first woman to win the Frank and Brennie Morgan Prize for Outstanding Research in Mathematics by an Undergraduate Student. It is an annual award given to an undergraduate student in the US, Canada, or Mexico who demonstrates superior mathematics research.\n\n2004: Alison Miller became the first female gold medal winner on the U.S. International Math Olympiad Team.\n\n2006: Stefanie Petermichl, a German mathematical analyst then at the University of Texas at Austin, became the first woman to win the Salem Prize, an annual award given to young mathematicians considered to have done outstanding work in Raphael Salem's field of interest, primarily Fourier series and related areas in analysis. She shared the prize with Artur Avila.\n\nTimeline of women in mathematics\n\n"}
