{"id": "20627851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20627851", "title": "Action Reconciliation Service for Peace", "text": "Action Reconciliation Service for Peace\n\nThe Action Reconciliation Service for Peace is a German peace organization founded to confront the legacy of Nazism.\nThe Action Reconciliation Service for Peace (German: Aktion Sühnezeichen Friedensdienste, or ASF) was founded in 1958 by the synod of the Evangelical Church in Germany, driven by the efforts of Lothar Kreyssig. It was prompted by the acknowledgement of guilt that Germans needed to face at the end of World War II and the Nazi era.\n\nThe Action Reconciliation Service for Peace (ARSP) is known especially through its international volunteer programs and the organisation of work camps in western and eastern Europe. Every year, ARSP sends approximately 180 volunteers to countries that suffered under the German occupation during World War II: Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, Netherlands, Russia, Poland, Czech Republic, Belarus, and the Ukraine. They also work in Israel and the United States because many Holocaust survivors fled or immigrated to these countries.\n\n§2 Purpose and operation\n\nThe beginnings of ARSP started with the actions of the Evangelical Church in Germany to reject Nazism and resist the Nazi regime. The founder of ARSP, Lothar Kreyssig, was one of the determined resisters within the Confessing Church. After the war, he made this refusal by the Protestant church a subject of discussion and, along with like-minded people, such as Martin Niemöller, Gustav Heinemann and later, Franz von Hammerstein, called for repentance and reversal.\n\nLothar Kreyssig tried to find fellow campaigners for his reconciliation service for the first time on \"Kirchentag\" 1954, in Leipzig. The appeal found few ears. \"That something is right and necessary, is not enough to see it materialize in time and space. The hour must be ripe,\" he later wrote in his unpublished autobiography. The Synod of the Evangelical Church in Germany convened from 26 to 30 April 1958, alternating in Spandau, in West Berlin) and Weißensee in East Berlin. At this point, the synod still involved the entire Evangelical Church in Germany, both east and west. There was a controversy that year over the west German military chaplaincy contract and possible nuclear armament by the Bundeswehr. This was the troubled atmosphere in which Praeses Kreyssig, on the last day of the Synod, read his appeal to found the Action for Reconciliation. Numerous attendees signed the appeal that evening.\n\nThe appeal not only expressed an admission of guilt, it also delineated concrete consequences. The Action for Reconciliation would not offer assistance, rather, would ask to help. This humble attitude was a rejection of any patronizing functionalization of the reconciliation thought process. The attitude was to signal the readiness to get involved — that is, to learn by doing and through dialogue — because the appeal relied on conversation, response and new action.\n\nThe Action for Reconciliation was initially founded as a Germany-wide organization, but the division of Germany made a joint effort impossible. The two German states therefore had two organizations with a common goal, albeit different emphasis in practice.\n\nThe western German ARSP began its work in 1959 with construction projects in the Netherlands and Norway and later, with projects in other countries. Volunteers helped build a synagoge in Villeurbanne and the Church of Reconciliation in Taizé, Saône-et-Loire, in Burgundy, France. They helped build a kindergarten in Skopje in the former Yugoslavia, helped install a water irrigation system on Crete, and helped create an international symbol of reconciliation from the ruins of Coventry Cathedral in England. Work in Israel began in 1961, after the Adolph Eichmann trial was concluded. From the mid-1960s, the projects slowly changed. There was ever less construction work, but new projects emerged for memorials, for work with the elderly, and social work. By the 1980s, with World War II fading into the past, there were additional projects working with minority groups.\n\nAfter 1961, the Berlin Wall prevented the East German Action for Reconciliation (Aktion Sühnezeichen, or ASZ) from sending any more volunteers to the west. Because the German Democratic Republic (GDR) considered itself to be an anti-fascist state, it did not consider itself responsible for the consequences of German fascism. Therefore, the projects of the ASZ were initially limited to the GDR. In 1965 and 1966, volunteers were still able to travel with Catholic chaplains from Magdeburg to Auschwitz, Majdanek, Stutthof, Groß-Rosen and Breslau. By 1967 and 1968, further trips to memorial sites in Poland and Czechoslovakia were not permitted, despite invitations being sent to the state visa refusal. With the introduction in 1972 of visa-free travel between the GDR and Poland and Czechoslovakia, young German were able to take part in summer camps in Poland. By then, Polish and Czech young people were also embarking on missions in the GDR. From this time on, reconciliation groups were involved in the preservation and restoration of Jewish cemeteries in almost every region of the GDR. The first group to work at Buchenwald was in 1979. Starting in 1981, the number of summer camps expanded to include Sachsenhausen, Ravensbrück, and Nordhausen-Dora. From 1962 till 1992, over 12,000 volunteers took part in the summer camps from ASZ.\n\nAfter reunification, the two eastern and western organizations merged, retaining their different forms of voluntary service, the long-term service of the ARSP and the short-term service and summer camps of the ASZ. Like the European Voluntary Service, since the late 1990s, the ARSP has increased the number of project sites to respond to changing need and new opportunities.\n\nAt present, ARSP sends out about 180 men and women per year to work on projects, primarily in countries that suffered directly from the Nazis, but also ones that have large numbers of Holocaust survivors. Belgium, France, the United Kingdom, the Netherlands, Norway, Poland, Russia, the Czech Republic, Israel, Ukraine, America and Belarus all have ARSP voluntary projects. The volunteers are predominantly young, between the ages of 18 and 27. Conscientious objectors can fulfill their required civil service under the auspices of ARSP. Volunteers support and accompany survivors of the Holocaust and their descendants, work at memorial sites, take care of older people, those with disabilities, the disadvantaged and refugees, and get involved in neighborhood projects and anti-racism initiatives.\n\nARSP volunteers helped create an international center of reconciliation in the ruins of Coventry Cathedral. In Israel, volunteers have worked in historical or political education and at the national memorial site, Yad Vashem in Jerusalem and in projects with Jewish and Arab citizens, working toward mutual understanding.\n\nARSP first sent volunteers to Norway and the Netherlands in 1959 to work on construction projects. More recently, volunteers in the Netherlands work in historical or political education, for example, at the Joods Historisch Museum or Anne Frank Foundation.\n\nVolunteers in Poland work in societies for former concentration camp prisoners and at concentration camps sites, Auschwitz in Oświęcim, Stutthof in Gdańsk and Majdanek near Lublin. For political reasons, ARSP first sent volunteers to Russia in 1990, and the Czech Republic in 1993. In Russia, they work at veterans' hospitals and the Russian human rights organization, Memorial. In the Czech Republic, they work with the Jewish community in Prague and at the memorial site Theresienstadt concentration camp. Volunteers to Ukraine work with former forced laborers.\n\nARSP has 24 volunteer positions in the United States. They work with Holocaust survivors or in offices at the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum Washington, DC and the American Jewish Committee in New York and Washington. Since 1996, about 15-20 requests per year have come from partner programs in other countries from young people seeking voluntary peace service in Germany, as well.\n\nEach year, about 300 people take part in summer camps, where they live and work together in about 25 camps in Germany and other countries. All summer camps are run by unsalaried employees, often former long-term volunteers who want to pass along their own experience. During the two- to three-week stay, volunteers learn about current and historical issues and are involved in projects, such as performing upkeep at Jewish cemeteries and memorial sites. They also work in social services and with intercultural projects.\n\nFor the past several years, there has been medium-term voluntary service available in Israel. Lasting three to six months, this service involves volunteers of all ages, including seniors. There is a three-day orientation seminar is held in the country.\n\nMany ARSP alumni are in regional groups and maintain connections, continuing to volunteer even after their initial voluntary period ends. With the implementation of long- and short-term voluntary service, more unsalaried positions are created, filled by these alumni. Some also contribute to public relations and education efforts.\n\nFour times a year, ARSP publishes \"Zeichen\" (\"Signs\"), a magazine (in German) that reports on the current work of volunteers and project partners. Each issue is centered around a different theme. It publishes \"Predigthilfen & Materiellen für die Gemeinde\" (\"Sermon aids and materials for the congregation\") three times a year, on the occasion of \"Israel Sunday,\" (a memorial day in the Evangelical church); for a ten-day period in November, called the \"Ökumenische Friedensdekade\" (\"Ecumenical Decade of Peace\"); and for International Holocaust Remembrance Day. With these, ARSP wants to convey theological insights from the Jewish-Christian dialogue and the dialogue with Islam into the religious community. In addition, ARSP wants to weigh in on current political themes, thereby joining the inter-religious and inter-cultural dialogue and presenting its position against anti-semitism, right-wing extremism and racism and strongly advocating for compensation to those persecuded by the Nazis; and for a just peace.\n\nARSP endeavors to stimulate societal debateon the themes of the politics of memory, national identities and inter-religious dialogue with events, workshops, seminars and congresses. ARSP contributes as founder, sponsor or cooperative partner to the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\nMarch 12, 2010\n"}
{"id": "44251374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44251374", "title": "American Posture League", "text": "American Posture League\n\nThe American Posture League of the United States was established and initially funded by educator Jessie H. Bancroft, Henry Ling Taylor, an orthopedic surgeon, and Dr. Eliza Mosher. The idea of the league was to combine scientific research with business: based on research in posture, they gave recommendations to businesses (manufacturers of footwear, furniture, etc.) and charging fees for contractual use the League labels. To the latter end, the Posture Standards Company was formed, to keep business separate from science, since the commercialization of science was one of the criticisms of the League. The enterprise was not a commercial success, but George J. Fisher (a former President of the League) notes that the founder trio were repaid all their investments, with the exception of the founding free gifts. \n\nDavis Yosifon, Peter N. Stearns, \"The Rise and Fall of American Posture\", \"American Historical Review\", vol. 103, pp. 317-344, 1996.\n"}
{"id": "12889852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12889852", "title": "Asia Pacific Management Institute", "text": "Asia Pacific Management Institute\n\nKaplan Singapore is a for-profit private education institution headquartered in Singapore with other campuses in Hong Kong, Taiwan, and the People's Republic of China. It was known as the Asia Pacific Management Institute (APMI) before it was acquired by Kaplan Inc., a subsidiary of the Graham Holdings Company, in May 2005.\n\nIt was established in 1989 as APMI, a regional provider of management education and lifelong learning programs and services. APMI was among the first private education organizations to be awarded the Singapore Quality Class (SQC) for Private Education Organizations. It is also one of the first management institutions to achieve the ISO 9000 quality certification in Singapore in 1996.\n\nIn May 2005, APMI was acquired by Kaplan Inc., a leading international provider of educational and career services for individuals, schools and businesses with 900,000 students around the globe. APMI headquartered campus and overseas operations have been rebranded under the Kaplan name.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "458858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=458858", "title": "Bachelor of Technology", "text": "Bachelor of Technology\n\nThe Bachelor of Technology (Latin \"Baccalaureus Technologiae\", commonly abbreviated as B.Tech.; with Honours as B.Tech. (Hons.); or BTech) is an undergraduate academic degree conferred after completion of a three-year, a four-year or even a five-year (such as in Nigeria) program of studies at an accredited university or accredited university-level institution. B.Tech. is considered as skill-oriented course. The degree is conferred in the Commonwealth of Nations, the United States and elsewhere.\n\nIn Australia, stand-alone Bachelor of Technology (BTech) programs are uncommon. Most of the Australian BTech degrees have engineering and/or information technology as their focus.\n\nIn Canada, the Bachelor of Technology designation is used inconsistently. Both universities and community colleges award the degree after completion of four-year programs but have different entrance requirements.\n\nCare should be taken not to confuse the B.Tech. degree offered by university-level institutions with the Bachelor of Applied Technology (B.A.Tech.) or BAT offered by some community colleges in Canada. Community colleges are represented by the Association of Canadian Community Colleges (ACCC) and university-level institutions by the Association of Universities and Colleges of Canada (AUCC), the national accrediting body of universities in Canada. However, some community college engineering programs have recently been accredited by Engineers Canada following a thorough review by the Canadian Engineering Accreditation Board (CEAB), i.e., Conestoga College. CEAB accreditation allows licensing as a \"Professional Engineer (P.Eng.)\" and ensures that graduates of these programs can continue with graduate engineering studies at traditional universities.\n\nCare should be taken not to confuse the B.Tech. degree with the P.Tech (Engineering) in Alberta designation used in Canada by the engineering technologists and technicians associations. P.Tech (Engineering) allow engineering practice independently same as professional engineer, which is attained by after completion of a 2-3 year Engineering Technology diploma program.\n\nIn India, BTech (Bachelor of Technology) and BE (Bachelor of Engineering) both are same degrees and offered in engineering disciplines.\n\nBachelor of Technology or Bachelor of Engineering qualifications include the following:\n\n\nDegree is regulated under the aegis of University Grants Commission of India (UGC), All India Council for Technical Education (AICTE) and National Board of Accreditation (NBA). Admission is usually through an engineering entrance examination.\n\nThe B.Tech. degree was recently introduced in Kenya and is consequently not a very common course, with only one or two schools offering it. Technical University of Kenya (TU-K), located in the country's capital, offers a B.Tech. in Engineering and Information Technology. The duration of study is usually 4 years with 11 semesters in total, with two academic semesters per year and an industrial Based Learning (IDBL) semester for years two through four.\n\nIn Nigeria, The B.Tech. degree is awarded by Universities of Technology or Science and Technology which can be Federal, State or Privately owned. The duration of study is usually five years of ten semesters. Nine of these semesters is spent in the university while one (usually the second semester of the fourth year) is spent on compulsory Industrial Training (IT) ranging from three to six months although it can extend for a whole session (usually the whole fourth year) for students of Agriculture related courses. At inception most of the universities offered core Science courses, but have now expanded their course offerings to include Social Sciences and even Medicine. There are five Federal universities of Technology in Nigeria located in Minna, Akure, Owerri, Yola and Bauchi with some state and privately owned ones around the country.\n\nIn Pakistan, Bachelor of Technology - B.Tech. (old name) or Bachelor of Science in Technology/Engineering Technology - BSc/BS Technology/Engineering Technology (new name) is a four years undergraduate engineering technology degree in which first 3 years (six semesters) are study years and in the final or 4th year (7th and 8th semesters), students undergo a supervised industrial training. Degree holders are called engineering technologists. The accrediting body of engineering technology degree is National Technology Council (Pakistan) (NTC) which is also responsible for registration of engineering technologists.\n\nIn South Africa, the B.Tech. is awarded by Universities of Technology and Comprehensive Universities - as distinct from Traditional Universities - and is generally practice or career oriented, as opposed to academically oriented. It is often offered in areas in which there is no corresponding B.Sc. or BComm (e.g. B.Tech.: Forestry Management, or B.Tech.: Explosives Management ).\n\nThe degree is obtained after 4 years of study and is usually offered as a 1-year program, following completion of a relevant three-year National Diploma.\n\nThe B.Tech. carries the same points as other bachelor's degrees in terms of South Africa's National Qualifications Framework (both having an NQF level of 7) At the same time, however, due to its orientation, it does not usually grant admission to the corresponding M.Sc. or MComm program, and students instead pursue the Master of Technology (M.Tech.) and Doctor of Technology (D.Tech.) degrees; it does grant admission to MBA programs (see List of business schools in South Africa). In some cases, however, admission may be granted, once demonstrated that the student meets the necessary academic level to complete the requirements of the M.Sc or MComm.\n\nIn Sri Lanka, The Open University of Sri Lanka (since 1980 under University Grants Commission) is the pioneer in offering the BTech Eng (Hons) which has a duration of minimum four years. Undergraduates can be specialised in Civil Engineering, Electrical Engineering, Electronics and communication Engineering, Computer Engineering, Mechanical Engineering, Automobile Engineering, Manufacturing Engineering, Mechatronics Engineering and Textile and Apparel Technology.\n\nThe BTech is offered in Sri Lanka by the University of Vocational Technology in following fields of Multimedia & Web, Network, Software, Construction Technology and Resource management, Building Services Technology, Manufacturing, Mechatronics, Food Process, Film & Television, Industrial Management and Quantity Surveying.\n\nUniversity of Sri Jayawardenapura of Sri Lanka is offering Bachelor of Technology degrees in Engineering Technology ,Bio systems Technology and Information Communication Technology, as BET , BBST ,BICT .those all are four year honours degrees which are based on Sydney accord.\n\nBTech is offered by the recently established Uva Wellassa University (under University Grants Commission) which has a duration of four years. This is known to be a specialized degree where they are subjected to specialize in three fields, Food Engineering & Bioprocess Technology, Material science & technology and Mechatronics.\n\nThe Faculty of Technology of the University of Colombo offers degrees in Bachelor of Technology (B. Tech), of a standard equivalent to Sri Lanka Qualification Framework (SLQF) Level 6.\n\nIn United States, the Bachelor of Technology degree is awarded after completion of a 4-year academic program. Many of the colleges and universities offering this degree are located in the states of Alaska (INDS), Florida, New York (New York City College of Technology, State University College at Buffalo, SUNY Morrisville, SUNY Cobleskill, SUNY College Of Technology At Alfred), Illinois (Chicago), Mississippi (Mississippi University for Women), Missouri (Northwest Missouri State University), Nevada, South Carolina, Charleston Southern University, Oklahoma (Rogers State University, Northeastern State University, Oklahoma State University-Oklahoma City), Oklahoma State University Institute of Technology - Okmulgee, Virginia, Georgia (Southern Polytechnic State University) and Washington (Lake Washington Institute of Technology).\n"}
{"id": "58636410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58636410", "title": "Back in Time (iOS software)", "text": "Back in Time (iOS software)\n\nBack in Time is an education book app for iOS about the history of the universe, earth, life and mankind that uses a time analogy to explain different timescales. Released in September 22, 2011, it was developed by the software company Landka in collaboration with scientific institutions such as ESA/Hubble Space Telescope. The app was featured worldwide in the App Store and rapidly became a success, reaching the top sales of iPad book apps in 38 countries. \"Back in Time\" was distinguished by \"The New York Times\" and selected for the top 10 apps of the year. In 2012 it was recognized with a World Summit Award (UN based initiative).\n\n\"Back in Time\" is a cross between a history textbook and a multimedia encyclopedia. The app presents 50 key events since the beginning of the universe until the present day covering different timescales such as the chronology of the universe, the geological history of earth, the evolutionary history of life and human history. In order to better understand these timescales, the app proposes a time analogy where the entire age of the universe (13.7 billion years) is scaled into a 24-hour clock. Navigation is possible by browsing several timelines or by rewinding the pointers of a clock to go back in time. The text of each chapter is complemented with images, videos, interactive timelines, animations and trivia. The app's soundtrack was produced by Rodrigo Leão.\n\n\"Back in Time\" presents the most relevant events in history using a 24-hour clock as a time analogy. This analogy scales the entire age of the universe (13.7 billion years) into a single day (24 hours) so that the beginning of the universe (Big Bang) started at 0:00h and at present time the imaginary clock reads 24:00h. \"Back in Time\" uses this analogy as a method to visualize and compare key events in the history of the universe, of earth, life, and human history. This analogy was originally proposed by Astronomer Bob Lambert from the as a tool for helping students visualizing large timescales. \n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> milliseconds before midnight\n\n\"Back in Time\" was developed by the Portuguese software company Landka over a period of 10 months. The iPad version was released on the App Store on September 22, 2011. The initial version included 44 chapters and was available in 5 languages (English, Spanish, German, French and Portuguese). Subsequent upgrades included additional chapters, translation into two more languages (Chinese and Japanese) and support for retina display. \n\nA dedicated version for iPhone was released in December of 2011. On June 2013, a version of the app for Microsoft Windows was released as a result of a collaboration between the developers and Intel with the purpose of showcase the capabilities of Windows 8.\n\nUpon release, \"Back in Time\" was featured in the App Store worldwide and rapidly became a success, reaching the top sales of iPad book apps in 38 countries. The app received generally positive reviews from the users (4.8/5.0 rating score on the App Store) and press. \"Back in Time\" was featured by \"The New York Times\" for the top 10 apps of the year. \n\nThe app was selected by the American Photo Magazine for the top 10 Photo eBooks of the year, distinguished by BBC as one of the 10 best history apps, and was recommended by several education publications. In 2012, Back in Time won a World Summit Award (UN based initiative) for Learning and Education.\n\nOficial website\n"}
{"id": "7378394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7378394", "title": "Bilingual sign", "text": "Bilingual sign\n\nA bilingual sign (or, by extension, a multilingual sign) is the representation on a panel (sign, usually a traffic sign, a safety sign, an informational sign) of texts in more than one language. The use of bilingual signs is usually reserved for situations where there is legally administered bilingualism (in bilingual regions or at national borders) or where there is a relevant tourist or commercial interest (airports, train stations, ports, border checkpoints, tourist attractions, international itineraries, international institutions, etc.). However, more informal uses of bilingual signs are often found on businesses in areas where there is a high degree of bilingualism, such as in areas where large concentrations of immigrants settle.\n\nBilingual signs are widely used in regions whose native languages do not use the Latin alphabet; such signs generally include transliteration of toponyms and optional translation of complementary texts (often into English). Beyond bilingualism, there is a general tendency toward the substitution of internationally standardized symbols and pictograms for text.\n\nThe use of bilingual signs has experienced a remarkable expansion in recent times, especially in the western world. The increase in bilingualism there has been paralleled by increases in international travel and a greater sensitivity to the needs of ethnic and linguistic minorities.\n\nBilingual signs arose in places like Belgium where, because of the cohabitation of Dutch-speaking and French-speaking communities (especially in the central part of the country near Brussels), bilingualism signaled a simple willingness to accommodate all citizens equally. As a result, all street signs in the Brussels Capital Region are bilingual in Dutch and French.\n\nSwitzerland knows several cantons (Bern, Fribourg, Valais, Graubünden) and towns (e.g.: Biel/Bienne, Murten, Fribourg, Siders, Disentis/Mustér), where two, or in one case (Graubünden) even three languages have official status and therefore the signs are multilingual. With \"Biel/Bienne\", both, the German and French name of the town are even always officially written with the compound name. The same with \"Disentis/Mustér\" (German/Romansh).\nAnother example is the German-speaking South Tyrol, which was annexed to Italy during World War I and eventually became the focus of assimilation policies. In observance of international treaties, Italy was eventually compelled to acknowledge and accommodate its German-speaking citizens through the use of bilingual signs. The situation of the Slovene minority living in the Trieste, Gorizia and Udine provinces is very different as only in recent years are the bilingual signs visible and only in smaller villages. In the partially French-speaking Aosta Valley, official road and direction signs are usually in both languages, Italian and French.\nIn Greece, virtually all signs are bilingual, with the Greek text in yellow font and the English in white. If the sign is Greek only, an equivalent sign in English will often be situated nearby.\n\nIn Spain, bilingual signs in the local language and Spanish appear irregularly in the autonomous communities of Galicia, Basque Country, Navarre, Catalonia, Valencian Community and the Balearic Islands.\n\nBilingual signs are also used in the Republic of Ireland, with all roads, towns, important buildings etc. named in both the Irish and English languages. The Irish appears on the top of the sign (usually in italic text) with the English underneath. The exception to this is in Gaeltacht regions, where only Irish language signage tends to be used.\nIn Finland, the multilingual signs appeared at the end of the 19th century. The signs were in the official languages Swedish, Finnish and, during that period, also Russian. After the independence of Finland, the signs became bilingual Finnish - Swedish in the official bilingual areas of the country and bilingual Finnish - Sami in the northern parts.\n\nBilingual signs are used in the United Kingdom. In Wales, Welsh and English are official languages and most road signs are bilingual. Each local authority decides which language is shown first. In Scotland, Scottish Gaelic is increasingly visible on road signs, not only in the north-west and on the islands, but also on main primary routes. Railway station signs and signs on public buildings such as the Scottish Parliament are increasingly bilingual.\n\nIn parts of Slovenia, where languages other than Slovene are official (Italian in parts of Slovenian Istria and Hungarian in parts of Prekmurje), the law requires all official signs (including road signs) to be in both official languages. This regulation is not always strictly enforced, but nevertheless all road signs in these areas are bilingual.\n\nIn many regions of Poland bilingual signs are used: Polish and Ruthenian in Lemkivshchyna, Polish and German in Upper Silesia, Polish and Lithuanian in Puńsk commune and Polish and Kashubian in Pomerania.\n\nIn Turkey bilingual(Turkish and Kurdish) village signs are used in Eastern Anatolia Region Airports, touristic areas include an English name after its Turkish name.\n\nEuropean airports have signs that are generally bilingual with the local language and English, although there are significant variations between countries. In multilingual countries such as Belgium and Switzerland, airports generally have signs in three or four languages. Some airports, such as Amsterdam Airport Schiphol, are used primarily by international travellers, and choose to use unilingual English signs, even if they are located in a non-English-speaking country.\n\nThe Government of Canada and the Province of New Brunswick are officially bilingual in English and French, so all signs issued or regulated by those governments are bilingual regardless of where they are located. Provincial road signs are also bilingual in French-designated areas of Manitoba and Ontario. Each local authority decides which language is shown first. In Ottawa, the national capital, the municipal government is officially bilingual so all municipal traffic signs and road markers are bilingual. Since airports are regulated by the federal government, most airports in Canada have bilingual signs in English and French.\n\nIn the Province of Nova Scotia, particularly on Cape Breton island, a number of place-name signs are bilingual in English and Scottish Gaelic.\n\nNunavut, an Inuit territory, is officially bilingual in Inuktitut and English so territorial government-issued signs are posted in both languages. Municipal road signs have remained in English only.\n\nQuebec is officially unilingual in French, and the use of other languages is restricted under the Charter of the French Language. Commercial signs in Quebec are permitted to include text in languages other than French as long as French is \"markedly predominant\".\n\nAt places near the U.S.-Mexico border, some signs are bilingual in English and Spanish, and some signs near the U.S.-Canada border are bilingual in English and French. Additionally, large urban centers such as New York City, Chicago and others have bilingual and multilingual signage at major destinations. There are a few English and Russian bilingual signs in western Alaska. In Texas, some signs are required to be in English and Spanish. In Texas areas where there are large numbers of Spanish speakers, many official signs as well as unofficial signs (e.g. stores, churches, billboards) are written in Spanish, some bilingual with English, but others in Spanish only.\n\nIn 2016, Port Angeles, Washington installed bilingual signs in English and the indigenous Klallam languages to preserve and revitalize the area's Klallam culture.\n\nIn the People's Republic of China, bilingual signs are mandated by the government in autonomous regions where a minority language share official status with Chinese. In Xinjiang, signs are in Uyghur and Chinese; in Tibet, signs are in Tibetan and Chinese, in Inner Mongolia, signs are in Mongolian (written in the classical alphabet) and Chinese. In Guangxi, the majority of signs are in Chinese, even though the Zhuang language is official in the region. Smaller autonomous areas also have similar policies. Signs in Yanbian Korean Autonomous Prefecture, which borders North Korea, are in Korean and Chinese. Many areas of Qinghai province mandate bilingual signs in Tibetan and Chinese. In Beijing and Shanghai, due to international exposure of the 2008 Summer Olympics and Expo 2010, almost all city traffic signs are now bilingual with Chinese and English (during the Olympics, signs on Olympic venues were also in French). English use in signs is growing in other major cities as well.\n\nIn Hong Kong and Macau, signs must be bilingual with Traditional Chinese and English or Portuguese, respectively. This is because, in addition to Chinese, English and Portuguese are official languages of Hong Kong and Macau respectively. Trilingual road signs in English, Portuguese and traditional Chinese are seen in some newly developed areas of Macau.\n\nIn Israel, road signs are often trilingual, in Hebrew, Arabic and English. \n\nIn Sri Lanka, official road signs are in Sinhala, Tamil, and English.\n\nIn Saudi Arabia and the Gulf States, road signs are often bilingual, in English and Arabic. Other signs (e.g. building signs) may also be displayed in English and Arabic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1590071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590071", "title": "Bob Shacochis", "text": "Bob Shacochis\n\nBob Shacochis (born September 9, 1951) is an American novelist, short story writer, and literary journalist. He teaches creative writing at Florida State University.\n\nShacochis was born in Pennsylvania, but grew up in the Washington, D.C. suburb of McLean, Virginia. He was educated at the University of Missouri and the Iowa Writers' Workshop at the University of Iowa, and currently teaches creative writing at Florida State University. His first short-story collection, \"Easy in the Islands\", was published in 1985 and received the National Book Award in category First Work of Fiction.\nThe stories are set in various Caribbean locales and reflect the author's experiences as a Peace Corps volunteer in the Grenadines. His second story collection, \"The Next New World\", widens the author's milieu, containing stories set in Florida and the islands of the Caribbean but also in Northern Virginia and the mid-Atlantic coast. In 1993, Shacochis published his first novel, \"Swimming in the Volcano\", which was a finalist for the National Book Award. Heavily concerned with politics, elaborate in style and description, and immersed in descriptions of nature and outdoor pursuits, his fiction reflects the influence of Joseph Conrad, Graham Greene, J.P. Donleavy, and especially Ernest Hemingway. His second novel, \"The Woman Who Lost Her Soul\", was published in 2013. It won the 2014 Dayton Literary Peace Prize for Fiction.\n\nShacochis has also worked as a journalist and war correspondent. A longtime culinary aficionado, Shacochis served as a cooking columnist for \"GQ\" magazine, writing the \"Dining In\" column, which combined often humorous anecdotes with recipes. The \"Dining In\" columns are collected in \"Domesticity\", a hybrid cookbook/essay collection. He is a contributing editor at \"Outside\" magazine, and was instrumental, along with other literary journalists recruited by then-editor Mark Bryant, including Jon Krakauer, Tim Cahill, and Bruce Barcott, in establishing \"Outside\"'s popular and critical success. Shacochis is also a contributing editor to Harper's, which sent him to Haiti in 1994 to cover the uprising against Jean-Bertrand Aristide, the island nation's first democratically elected President, and the subsequent intervention by US Army Special Forces, with whom Shacochis traveled for nearly a year covering the invasion. The experience resulted in \"The Immaculate Invasion\", Shacochis's first full-length book of nonfiction. Shacochis's nonfiction generally fits into the tradition of the New Journalism popularized by Tom Wolfe, Norman Mailer, and Hunter S. Thompson in the 1960s and 1970s. \"Kingdoms in the Air\", a collection of Shacochis's travel and adventure essays, was published by Grove Atlantic in 2016.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8224692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8224692", "title": "Brett Atwood", "text": "Brett Atwood\n\nBrett Atwood is a website editor, content strategist and former print and online journalist whose writings have appeared in \"Billboard\", \"Rolling Stone\", \"Vibe\", \"The Hollywood Reporter\" and other publications. Atwood has held managing editor positions at leading Internet sites Amazon.com, Secondlife.com and RealNetworks. In 2001, Atwood's career shifted to include academia. He is currently the director of the Integrated Strategic Communication at Everett (ISC) program and an associate professor at the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University. He holds an M.A. degree in communication from University of the Pacific in Stockton, California.\n\nDuring his five-year stint as new media editor at \"Billboard\", he was among the first reporters to document the development of Internet-based digital downloading and streaming media technologies. His expertise in this area has resulted in numerous analyst and commentator appearances at several national print and TV outlets, including Fox News, MSNBC, CNN, \"CBS Evening News\", \"USA Today\" and \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nAt Amazon.com, he managed and developed editorial content for several of the e-commerce site’s operations, including the debut of the Computer & Video Games, Electronics and Toys stores. At RealNetworks, he managed content development for various music properties at the streaming media company, including MusicNet, LiveConcerts.com and RealGuide Music. In addition, he co-founded Internet music service Rolling Stone Radio with \"Rolling Stone\" magazine. At Linden Lab, he works on editorial and content strategy for multiple products including the Internet-based 3D digital world Second Life and the social VR platform Sansar.\n\nAtwood is an associate professor at the Edward R. Murrow College of Communication at Washington State University, where he teaches courses in digital content production, reporting and social media persuasion.\n\nIn 2006, he was the recipient of a U.S. Speaker and Specialist Grant from the U.S. Department of State. This grant enabled Atwood to travel to Minsk, Belarus to conduct workshops on Internet content development among independent journalists. Under the regime of Alexander Lukashenko, the government has all but suffocated traditional distribution outlets for independent journalists due to its intolerance of dissenting viewpoints.\n\nIn 2008, he received a grant from the McCormick Foundation to conduct a Virtual Journalism Summit featuring workshops and presentations about reporting within 3D spaces. The effort comes as a result of the growing popularity and influence of virtual reality worlds, where there are many real stories unfolding within the \"metaverse\" and its newly created 3D spaces. For example, real-world news organizations, such as CNN and Sky News, once held \"in-world\" virtual news bureaus that aimed to document and report on the virtual economy and activities within Second Life.\n\nIn 2010, he worked with the McCormick Foundation again to create the Murrow Center 3D Newsroom. This virtual world project features 3D \"citizen journalism\" training kiosks and a multimedia exhibit dedicated to famed broadcast journalist Edward R. Murrow.\n\nIn 2011, he was a co-recipient of a U.S. Department of State grant for the Study of the United States Institute for Student Leaders on New Media in Journalism (SUSI).\n"}
{"id": "7955447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7955447", "title": "Computerized classification test", "text": "Computerized classification test\n\nA computerized classification test (CCT) refers to, as its name would suggest, a test that is administered by computer for the purpose of classifying examinees. The most common CCT is a mastery test where the test classifies examinees as \"Pass\" or \"Fail,\" but the term also includes tests that classify examinees into more than two categories. While the term may generally be considered to refer to all computer-administered tests for classification, it is usually used to refer to tests that are interactively administered or of variable-length, similar to computerized adaptive testing (CAT). Like CAT, variable-length CCTs can accomplish the goal of the test (accurate classification) with a fraction of the number of items used in a conventional fixed-form test.\n\nA CCT requires several components:\n\n\nThe starting point is not a topic of contention; research on CCT primarily investigates the application of different methods for the other three components. \"Note:\" The termination criterion and scoring procedure are separate in CAT, but the same in CCT because the test is terminated when a classification is made. Therefore, there are five components that must be specified to design a CAT.\n\nAn introduction to CCT is found in Thompson (2007) and a book by Parshall, Spray, Kalohn and Davey (2006). A bibliography of published CCT research is found below.\n\nA CCT is very similar to a CAT. Items are administered one at a time to an examinee. After the examinee responds to the item, the computer scores it and determines if the examinee is able to be classified yet. If they are, the test is terminated and the examinee is classified. If not, another item is administered. This process repeats until the examinee is classified or another ending point is satisfied (all items in the bank have been administered, or a maximum test length is reached).\n\nTwo approaches are available for the psychometric model of a CCT: classical test theory (CTT) and item response theory (IRT). Classical test theory assumes a state model because it is applied by determining item parameters for a sample of examinees determined to be in each category. For instance, several hundred \"masters\" and several hundred \"nonmasters\" might be sampled to determine the difficulty and discrimination for each, but doing so requires that you be able to easily identify a distinct set of people that are in each group. IRT, on the other hand, assumes a trait model; the knowledge or ability measured by the test is a continuum. The classification groups will need to be more or less arbitrarily defined along the continuum, such as the use of a cutscore to demarcate masters and nonmasters, but the specification of item parameters assumes a trait model.\n\nThere are advantages and disadvantages to each. CTT offers greater conceptual simplicity. More importantly, CTT requires fewer examinees in the sample for calibration of item parameters to be used eventually in the design of the CCT, making it useful for smaller testing programs. See Frick (1992) for a description of a CTT-based CCT. Most CCTs, however, utilize IRT. IRT offers greater specificity, but the most important reason may be that the design of a CCT (and a CAT) is expensive, and is therefore more likely done by a large testing program with extensive resources. Such a program would likely use IRT.\n\nA CCT must have a specified starting point to enable certain algorithms. If the sequential probability ratio test is used as the termination criterion, it implicitly assumes a starting ratio of 1.0 (equal probability of the examinee being a master or nonmaster). If the termination criterion is a confidence interval approach, a specified starting point on theta must be specified. Usually, this is 0.0, the center of the distribution, but it could also be randomly drawn from a certain distribution if the parameters of the examinee distribution are known. Also, previous information regarding an individual examinee, such as their score the last time they took the test (if re-taking) may be used.\n\nIn a CCT, items are selected for administration throughout the test, unlike the traditional method of administering a fixed set of items to all examinees. While this is usually done by individual item, it can also be done in groups of items known as testlets (Leucht & Nungester, 1996; Vos & Glas, 2000).\n\nMethods of item selection fall into two categories: cutscore-based and estimate-based. Cutscore-based methods (also known as sequential selection) maximize the information provided by the item at the cutscore, or cutscores if there are more than one, regardless of the ability of the examinee. Estimate-based methods (also known as adaptive selection) maximize information at the current estimate of examinee ability, regardless of the location of the cutscore. Both work efficiently, but the efficiency depends in part on the termination criterion employed. Because the sequential probability ratio test only evaluates probabilities near the cutscore, cutscore-based item selection is more appropriate. Because the confidence interval termination criterion is centered around the examinees ability estimate, estimate-based item selection is more appropriate. This is because the test will make a classification when the confidence interval is small enough to be completely above or below the cutscore (see below). The confidence interval will be smaller when the standard error of measurement is smaller, and the standard error of measurement will be smaller when there is more information at the theta level of the examinee.\n\nThere are three termination criteria commonly used for CCTs. Bayesian decision theory methods offer great flexibility by presenting an infinite choice of loss/utility structures and evaluation considerations, but also introduce greater arbitrariness. A confidence interval approach calculates a confidence interval around the examinee's current theta estimate at each point in the test, and classifies the examinee when the interval falls completely within a region of theta that defines a classification. This was originally known as adaptive mastery testing (Kingsbury & Weiss, 1983), but does not necessarily require adaptive item selection, nor is it limited to the two-classification mastery testing situation. The sequential probability ratio test (Reckase, 1983) defines the classification problem as a hypothesis test that the examinee's theta is equal to a specified point above the cutscore or a specified point below the cutscore.\n\nWith the 3-Parameter Logistic Model. Unpublished doctoral dissertation, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.\n"}
{"id": "45089531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45089531", "title": "Congressional Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic Competition", "text": "Congressional Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic Competition\n\nThe Congressional Science Technology, Engineering and Math (STEM) Academic Competition (House App Contest) (Congressional App Challenge) allows high school students in participating congressional districts to compete in an application software (\"app\") development contest. The challenge was established by the United States House of Representatives in 2013 with the \"Academic Competition Resolution of 2013\" to engage student creativity and participation in STEM education fields and the challenge is modeled after the Congressional Art Competition. The Senate did not have to approve the resolution because the House administered the program. The Congressional Internet Caucus Advisory Committee introduced the concept for the Congressional App Challenge in 2013 and the challenge was co-chaired by Congressional Internet Caucus co-chairs Rep. Bob Goodlatte and Rep. Anna Eshoo. In its inaugural year, 84 congressional districts in 31 states and DC awarded 212 high school students for 109 apps.\n"}
{"id": "4738312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4738312", "title": "Dundee Society", "text": "Dundee Society\n\nThe Dundee Society was a society of graduates of CA-400, a National Security Agency course in cryptology devised by Lambros D. Callimahos, which included the Zendian Problem (a practical exercise in traffic analysis and cryptanalysis). The class was held once a year, and new members were inducted into the Society upon completion of the class. The Society was founded in the mid-1950s and continued on after Callimahos' retirement from NSA in 1976. The last CA-400 class was held at NSA in 1979, formally closing the society's membership rolls.\n\nThe society took its name from an empty jar of Dundee Marmalade that Callimahos kept on his desk for use as a pencil caddy. Callimahos came up with the society's name while trying to schedule a luncheon for former CA-400 students at the Ft. Meade Officers' Club; being unable to use either the course name or the underlying government agency's name for security reasons, he spotted the ceramic Dundee jar and decided to use \"The Dundee Society\" as the cover name for the luncheon reservation. CA-400 students were presented with ceramic Dundee Marmalade jars at the close of the course as part of the induction ceremony into the Dundee Society. When Dundee switched from ceramic to glass jars, Callimahos would still present graduates with ceramic Dundee jars, but the jars were then collected back up for use in next year's induction ceremony, and members were \"encouraged\" to seek out Dundee jars for their own collections if they wished to have a permanent token of induction.\n\n"}
{"id": "25307589", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25307589", "title": "East African School of Taxation", "text": "East African School of Taxation\n\nThe East African School of Taxation provides tax training and consultancy services in East Africa. The school is located in Kampala, Uganda, and is the first taxation school in East Africa. It offers courses in income tax and revenue administration, certificates of merit in taxation, and tailor-made courses in taxation for parastatal organizations, the private sector, local governments and small and medium enterprises. The school also offers training in facilitating tax planning processes, salary, and benefits tax consultancy, tax management systems and tax audits.\n\nThe school aims to attract revenue officials, lawyers, financial managers, accountants and economists from the Uganda Revenue Authority; the Ministry of Finance, Planning and Economic Development; the Tax Appeals Tribunal; law firms and non-profit organizations.\n"}
{"id": "2550724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2550724", "title": "Edline", "text": "Edline\n\nEdline is a Learning Community Management System that many schools use for school and class organization. It provides district, school and classroom level website support for administrators, parents, teachers and students from kindergarten through 12th grade.\n\nThe firm's website states that its service is used by schools in all 50 U.S. states and has been featured in publications such as \"Newsweek\". The firm has acquired the earlier-established competitive products of Jackson Software, the makers of GradeQuick, and Orbis Software, the makers of Easy Grade Pro. \n\nEdline is used in many schools aiming to have paperless classes and homework, thereby cutting costs. The instructor/teacher can upload such material as upcoming tests, projects, homework, class expectations, and progress reports. The website mainly helps parents see if students have missed any homework. Parents or students can even e-mail teachers if any kind of help is needed. Different schools may upload varying amounts of data and information, depending on teacher preference and school requirements.\n\nIn 2009, Archipelago Learning acquired a minority interest in Edline as part of its acquisition by Providence Equity Partners.\n\nIn October 2011, Edline merged with Blackboard.\n\nIn July 2012, Edline announced they are being rebranded as Blackboard Engage.\n\nDuring the 2014-2015 school year, some school districts across the nation were starting to replace Edline with other similar tools like Google Classroom, Schoology, Skyward, PlusPortals, etc.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1590852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1590852", "title": "Education for sustainable development", "text": "Education for sustainable development\n\nSustainability education (SE), Education for Sustainability (EfS), and Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) are often used interchangeably to describe the practice of teaching for sustainability. ESD is the term most used internationally and by the United Nations. Agenda 21 was the first international document that identified education as an essential tool for achieving sustainable development and highlighted areas of action for education.\n\nOne definition of Education for Sustainable Development is an “interdisciplinary learning methodology covering the integrated social, economic, and environmental aspects of formal and informal curriculum. This academic approach can help graduates nurture their knowledge, talents, and experience to play a role in environmental development and become responsible members of society. The Brundtland Commission defined sustainable development as meeting the needs of the present generation without putting at risk the capacity of generations to come in meeting their own requirements. This Agency used to be the World Commission on Environment and Development created in 1983. The idea of sustainable development originated from the United Nations Conference on Human Environment in Stockholm (Sweden 1972). There were two more global activities since then. These were the United Nations World Commission on Environment and Development 1987 (Our Common Future Report) and the United Nations Conference on Environment and Development 1992 (Rio Earth Summit).\n\nFor UNESCO, education for sustainable development involves:\n\nThe aspiration of sustainable development requires us to resolve common problems and tensions and to recognize new horizons. Economic growth and the creation of wealth have reduced global poverty rates, but vulnerability, inequality, exclusion and violence have increased within and across societies throughout the world. Unsustainable patterns of economic production and consumption contribute to global warming, environmental degradation and an upsurge in natural disasters. Moreover, while international human rights frameworks have been strengthened over the past several decades, the implementation and protection of these norms remain a challenge. For example, despite the progressive empowerment of women through greater access to education, they continue to face discrimination in public life and in employment. Violence against women and children, particularly girls, continues to undermine their rights. Again, while technological development contributes to greater interconnectedness and offers new avenues for exchange, cooperation and solidarity, we also see an increase in cultural and religious intolerance, identity-based political mobilization and conflict.\n\nEducation must find ways of responding to such challenges, taking into account multiple worldviews and alternative knowledge systems, as well as new frontiers in science and technology such as the advances in neurosciences and the developments in digital technology. Rethinking the purpose of education and the organization of learning has never been more urgent.\n\nGroundwork has been laid for sustainability education worldwide. Recent changes in service learning, a focus on literacies and skills, standards that support interdisciplinary thinking, and the role of systems thinking have all increased the visibility of the movement. Various approaches to ESD encourage people to understand the complexities of, and synergies between, the issues threatening planetary sustainability and understand and, specifically through EfS, assess their own values and those of the society in which they live in the context of sustainability. ESD seeks to engage people in negotiating a sustainable future, making decisions and acting on them. It is generally agreed on that sustainability education must be customized for individual learners, Education for Sustainability (EfS), in particular, focuses not on the environmental, social and economic loci of education but on the human skills that are needed for any environmental education to succeed. These thinking and relational skills are thus fundamental, not just to ESD, but to education in general. The following skills are seen as integral to Education for Sustainability (EfS):\n\n\nIn recognition of the importance of ESD, the United Nations General Assembly declared 2005–2014 the UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (DESD). UNESCO leads the Decade and has developed an International Implementation Scheme for the Decade. The goals of the decade are to provide an opportunity for refining and promoting the vision of, and transition to, sustainable development – through all forms of education, public awareness and training; and to give an enhanced profile to the important role of education and learning in sustainable development. Education for sustainability is the practice of learning how to achieve global and local sustainable communities.\n\nThe objectives of the DESD are to:\nThe end of the Decade was marked by the UNESCO World Conference on Education for Sustainable Development (ESD). Made during the conference was the 2014 Aichi-Nagoya Declaration on Education for Sustainable Development, which invites governments ‘to reinforce the integration of ESD into education, training, and sustainable development policies.’ Where UNESCO serves as the lead agency to integrate the principles of sustainable development into all aspects of education to address the economic, social, cultural and environmental problems of the 21st century.\n\na-The United Nations Program on Education for Sustainable Development aims to\n1- cultivate in every human being the knowledge and skills necessary to reach more sustainable future.\n2– Include any child in the world to the educational edifice and provide access to school.\n3- Improve the quality of education.\n4- Promote the concept of global citizenship.\nIn the future UNESCO will support its Education for All (EFA) plan and will continue to support its education line with the cooperation of other partner organizations such as UNICEF, the World Bank, the OECD,education international and NGOs.\n\nb-UNESCO's role in education for sustainable development.\n1-UNESCO Prize \"Education for Sustainable Development\".\nUNESCO invited governments and non-governmental organizations with official partnerships with UNESCO to nominate 3 individuals, institutions or organizations working in the field of education for sustainable development In order to be part of the UNESCO award, provided that it participates in one or more of the five areas of work of the program of education for sustainable development.Where the value of the prize $150000 is divided among 3 winners.\nUNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova awarded the UNESCO / Japan Prize for Education for Sustainable Development to SERES from Guatemala and El Salvador, JAYAGIRL from Indonesia and ROOTABILITY from Germany at a ceremony held at UNESCO headquarters in Paris.\nThis award is the first to be presented since its inception in the field of education for sustainable development. This award is being funded by the Government of Japan.\n\nEducation is a key component of the global response to climate change in relation to UNESCO and its partners in the United Nations. Article 6 of the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change states that \"States should facilitate education programs for awareness on climate change\".\n\nEducation in climate change for sustainable development aims to improve understanding of the key concepts of sustainability and the blood of these four directions:\nUNESCO and the United Nations Convention on the Use of Climate Change Education rely not only on schools but also on online courses and More than 14 million students and 2.1 million teachers in 58 countries have been involved in such education.\n\nOn the other hand, NGOs as a partner of the government contribute to sustainable development as a real contribution, and have succeeded in building development awareness, stability and employment through a real and effective participation in the development process. It also has a role in finding a balance between the ecosystem and the economy to conserve natural resources. Organizations are the right arm of governments in the process of sustainable development.\n\nThe UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development took place from 2005 to 2014, with the goal of emphasizing education in all its forms (formal, non-formal and informal) as an indispensable element for achieving sustainable development. In November 2014, as the official follow-up to the DESD, UNESCO launched the Global Action Programme (GAP) for ESD with the overall objective to scale up action on ESD worldwide. Two basic and very important objectives of GAP on ESD are:\nThe GAP focuses on generating and scaling-up action in five Priority Action Areas: 1. Advancing policy; 2. Transforming learning and training environments; 3. Building capacities of educators and trainers; 4. Empowering and mobilizing youth; 5. Accelerating sustainable solutions at local level. Due to its strong linkages with sustainable development, the GAP on ESD provides an excellent framework for understanding the types of education, training and public awareness initiatives conducive to enabling people of all ages to understand and implement solutions for solving the complex problems presented by climate change.\n\nUNESCO’s work on Climate Change Education (CCE) within the framework of its GAP on ESD aims to make education a more central and visible part of the international response to climate change; to support countries to integrate CCE into their education and training systems; and to support countries in achieving a smooth transition to green economies and resilient societies through education and training.\n\n\"See main article: Sustainable Development Goals\"\nESD is explicitly recognized in the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) as part of Target 4.7 of the SDG on education, together with Global Citizenship Education (GCED), which UNESCO promotes as a complementary approach. Target 4.7 of the SDGs states:By 2030, ensure that all learners acquire knowledge and skills needed to promote sustainable development, including, among others,In August 2015, 193 countries agreed on the following 17 goals: [4]\nNo to poverty. End poverty in all its forms everywhere.\nNot for hunger. Ending hunger, achieving food security, improving nutrition and promoting sustainable agriculture.\ngood health. Ensure healthy living and promote well-being for all ages.\nQuality education. Ensure universal and equal quality education and enhance lifelong learning opportunities for all.\nGender equality Achieve gender equality and empower all women and girls.\nClean and healthy water. Ensure abundance and sustainable water and health management for all.\nRenewable and affordable energy. Ensure affordable, reliable and sustainable energy access for all.\nGood jobs and economy economics. Promote sustainable, comprehensive and sustainable economic growth, full and productive employment, and decent work for all.\nInnovative and good infrastructure. Build a flexible infrastructure and promote comprehensive, sustainable manufacturing and innovation promotion.\nReduce inequality. Reducing inequality within States and between States and each other.\nCities and sustainable communities. Make cities and human settlements inclusive, secure, flexible and sustainable.\nResponsible use of resources. Ensure sustainable consumption and production patterns.\nClimate move. Action to combat climate change and its impacts.\nSustainable oceans. Sustainable and sustainable use of oceans, seas and marine resources for sustainable development.\nSustainable use of land. Protect, restore and promote the sustainable use of terrestrial ecosystems, sustainably manage forests, combat desertification, halt and restore land degradation and halt loss of biodiversity.\nPeace and justice. Promoting peaceful and inclusive societies for sustainable development, providing access to justice for all and building effective, accountable and inclusive institutions at all levels.\nPartnership for Sustainable Development. Strengthening the means to implement and revitalize the global partnership for sustainable development.At the same time, it is important to emphasize ESD’s crucial importance for all the other 16 SDGs. With its overall aim to develop cross-cutting sustainability competencies in learners, ESD is an essential contribution to all efforts to achieve the SDGs, enabling individuals to contribute to sustainable development by promoting societal, economic and political change as well as by transforming their own behaviour. ESD can produce specific cognitive, socio-emotional and behavioural learning outcomes that enable individuals to deal with the particular challenges of each SDG, thus facilitating its achievement. In short, ESD enables all individuals to contribute to achieving the SDGs by equipping them with the knowledge and competencies they need, not only to understand what the SDGs are about, but to engage as informed citizens in bringing about the necessary transformation.\n\nThe U.S. Partnership for Education for Sustainable Development (USPESD) consists of individuals, organizations and institutions in the United States dedicated to education for sustainable development (ESD). It acts as a convener, catalyst, and communicator working across all sectors of American society.\n\nThe U.S. Partnership was conceived at a November 2003 \"Open Space\" gathering held in Washington, DC that included almost 100 participants from a diverse range of sectors including K-12 and higher education, science and research organizations, conservation and environmental NGOs, faith communities, living institutions, youth advocacy organizations, government agencies and others. Convened by the National Council on Science and the Environment and University Leaders for a Sustainable Future, the group met to respond to the call by the UN General Assembly for a Decade of Education for Sustainable Development (2005 through 2014) and to consider specifically:\n\nA subsequent strategic planning retreat on the campus of Gettysburg College in Pennsylvania gave shape to the emerging Partnership. Hosted by the International Center for Leadership Results and facilitated by Group Jazz, participants agreed upon the Partnership's Vision – \"sustainable development integrated into education and learning in the United States;\" and Mission – to \"leverage the UN Decade to foster education for sustainable development in the United States\". They also conceived of an operating structure for the Partnership, including Action Teams (Marketing, Outreach, Funding, ICT, Youth etc.) and Sector Teams (K-12, Higher Education, Faith Communities, Business, and Communities.), whose volunteer leadership would comprise an Executive Team. An \"Interim Steward\" would provide ongoing facilitation and leadership.\n\nParticipants decided that the Partnership would not design or implement programs of its own. Rather, it would serve as a clearing house – helping to connect, highlight, and foster collaboration among partners – and serving as a catalyst to convene groups and build community to support existing and emerging initiatives.\n\nThe Partnership supports its vision and mission through periodic conference calls, in-person meetings and events, and its website. Action and Sector Teams remain key operational components of the Partnership, carrying out a range of activities in support of its mission and vision. Action Teams are responsible for planning and carrying out joint activities that support the entire partnership (e.g. Funding, ICT, Marketing). Sector Teams focus on the needs of their own sector (e.g. Higher Ed., K-12, Faith Communities). The Sector Teams have compiled ESD tools and resources and worked together to advance ESD through initiatives held \"in collaboration with the U.S. Partnership\". The Disciplinary Associations Network for Sustainability and the Higher Education Associations Sustainability Consortium are networks of national higher education associations integrating information about our urgent sustainability challenges and solutions into education. The Decade and the U.S. Partnership provide international and national context for such efforts, helping to promote and strengthen education for sustainable development in the United States.Education and sustainable development are two sides of a single coin.\nTheir human goal is to build human beings and develop their capacities to achieve sustainable development in an efficient and equitable manner in which life choices are available to people.\nTherefore, education is the heart of development and its solidity and that the success of development in any society depends very much on the success of the educational system in this society.\nEducation is therefore the key to progress, the instrument of renaissance and the source of strength in societies.Therefore, there is a close relationship between education and sustainable development so that development can not achieve any step unless qualified manpower is available and therefore the process of education is the basis of the process of sustainable development.\nHence, the learning process is closely related to sustainable development, namely, investment in human beings and human beings. This has led to a radical shift in educational development thinking, which focuses on the development of human capacities and the importance of education as the focus of real development and human capacity development.\nWhere Chinese wisdom says: If you want to invest for one year and the wheat flour and if you want to invest for ten years tree sap and if you want to invest life and flourish in people.\nTherefore, education is the one that pushed man to the heart of the development process and the slogan of no development without human beings and therefore the comprehensive sustainable development is no longer dependent on physical capital onlyBut the most important need is the presence of a trained and qualified workforce capable of producing more and more.\n\nSustainable Development Strategy for organizations in Canada is about the Government of Canada finding ways to develop social, financial, and environmental resources that meet the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs in Canada. A Sustainable Development Strategy for the organization needs to be developed that establishes the Sustainable Development goals and objectives set by the Auditor General Act of Canada and provides the written policies and procedures to achieve them. Sustainable Development is based on responsible decision-making, which considers not only the economic benefits of development, but also the short-term and long-term, Canadian environment and environmental impacts.\n\nThe private sector plays an increasingly important role in environmental and sustainability education. In recent years, as the seriousness of problems such as climate change and hazards to the environment have received more emphasis, corporate environmental responsibility (CER) and sustainability education has been discussed more frequently.\n\nAccording to recent survey research conducted by GreenBiz in partnership with National Environmental Education Foundation (NEEF) and PwC, 73% of respondents indicated that their company is educating employees across the organization about its corporate sustainability goals.\n\nCompanies are anticipating that the value of Environment & Sustainability education (E&S) knowledge will increase and many are already providing some education to their employees. Nearly half of respondents to the GreenBiz survey whose companies have no current program believe their company will begin educating employees in the next two years.\n\nThere are a variety of organizational models for employee environment and sustainability education programs. For example, Cisco employees live and work in a Web 2.0 world and are comfortable collaborating online while Wal-Mart finds a person-to-person approach the most effective.\n\nSome companies aim to raise environmental literacy among their employees so they can contribute to environmental improvements both at work and in the community. Other companies, seek to leverage employees’ knowledge and expertise to transform the company and its products and services to meet a sustainability vision. Organizations use a varied, creative set of methods to reach and influence employees including multi-departmental leadership, employee-led “green” teams, awards, online training, mixed-media communications and performance incentives Several companies also with external partners including non-governmental organizations (NGOs) to create successful E&S education programs.\n\nThrough its Business Sustainability Educational Roundtable, NEEF engaged leading companies, including Kimberly-Clark, Johnson & Johnson, Intel and others, to share and develop best practices on employee engagement <nowiki>http://64.130.52.13/business/member_resources.htm</nowiki>. A number of other reports have been published by the NEEF detailing the benefits of sustainability education in corporations and provide some examples and case studies of how corporations embed sustainability education into their operations.\n\nThe following individuals are associated with the sustainability education movement:\n\nProfessional organizations often produce their own standards and best practices lists. The North American Association for Environmental Education has produced a detailed \"Guidelines for Excellence\" in educational programming. Some educational institutions that focus on ESD include:\n\nThe Zayed Future Energy Prize, was proud to announce the launch of the new \"Global High School Prize\" category in 2012. High Schools from around the world will be requested to submit a business case for how they plan on utilizing the prize for the purpose of raising awareness on the importance of sustainability and improving the school’s environmental footprint. The Global High School Prize is also a UAE commitment to the UN Secretary General’s Year of Sustainable Energy for All, which was launched from Abu Dhabi on January 16, 2012.\n\nThe Educating Africa Award for Entrepreneurship in Education\nAwarding educational projects in Africa that are entrepreneurial, self sustainable and creating impact.\n\nUNESCO invited governments and non-governmental organizations with official partnerships with UNESCO to nominate 3 individuals, institutions or organizations working in the field of education for sustainable development In order to be part of the UNESCO award, provided that it participates in one or more of the five areas of work of the program of education for sustainable development.Where the value of the prize $150000 is divided among 3 winners.\nUNESCO Director-General Irina Bokova awarded the UNESCO / Japan Prize for Education for Sustainable Development to SERES from Guatemala and El Salvador, JAYAGIRL from Indonesia and ROOTABILITY from Germany at a ceremony held at UNESCO headquarters in Paris. This award is the first to be presented since its inception in the field of education for sustainable development. This award is being funded by the Government of Japan.\n\nThe Walmart corporation offers a program for employees focused on sustainability education that includes the skill sets of EfS.\n\nFrom a political point of view you can say that the idea of sustainability comes from two different trends developed after the Second World War, which can be related to when colonial powers ended their occupation. Within the first trend, it was noticed that the former colonies suffered from social and economical problems like poverty and lack of food. The United Nations therefore arranged several conferences where solutions to these problems were outlined. Several international organs were established, including the International Monetary Fund (IMF) and the World Bank Group (WBG). The second trend stars out from the alarming reports that began to appear during the 1960s, which warned for humans’ way of using nature resources. The resources would come to an end because of the future economical growth and increase in population. A first attempt to discuss these trends could be seen during the United nations Conference on the Environment in Stockholm 1972. As a result, United Nations development Program (UNDP) was founded.\n\nThe first conference concerning environmental education (EE) was held in Tbilisi in 1977 and it resulted in the Tbilisi declaration. The document focuses on EE and maintains among others that it should be interdisciplinary, be a lifelong process and develop critical thinking and problem – solving skills. The declaration has had a large effect on curriculums, for example in the Uganda strategy to implementing education for sustainable development The term SUSTAINABLE DEVELOPMENT got an international breakthrough in 1987 with the Bruntland Commissions final report. Our Common Future. The definition of sustainable development was stated in this report and it is still ubiquitous.“Sustainable development is development that meets the needs of the present without compromising the ability of future generations to meet their own needs”\nSustainable development is about a global responsibility and solidarity between generations, between women and men and between different cultures and countries. It is about safeguarding and efficient use of existing nature resources. Investment in management of human, social and physiological resources is also crucial parts of sustainable development. Democratic values permeate the society and the citizens feel that they can influence the development, and that they have the will of taking that responsibility for doing so.\n\nThe principles underlying sustainable can be separated into a social, economic, and ecological dimension. The economic growth is used to be seen as a requirement for development. No country can achieve a sustainable economic growth if the environment is worsened, if the prosperity is not fairly distributed and if growth of the human resources has not taken place. Therefore, the economical dimension means that economical growth shall carry on with: first, respect taken to the environment, second, growth of the people’s health and education and third, a fair distribution of prosperity. The social dimension points out the importance resources, power and influence are fairly distributed and that people can feel security and can participate. The social dimension is therefore a requirement for economic growth. The environment dimension means that considerations are taken for the social and economical development. These three dimensions are integrated with each other as they are interdependent and mutually reinforcing. The implication of this is that sustainable development to a large extent is about politics\nIn 1992 a UN conference, also known as Earth Summit, was held in Rio de Janeiro. The most famous agreement from that meeting is the Agenda 21, a plan of action for sustainable development. Two major differences from earlier conferences were:\n\nEducation is critical for promoting sustainable development and improving the capacity of the people to address environment and development issues. Both formal and non-formal education are indispensable to changing people’s attitudes so that they have the capacity to assess and address their sustainable development concerns. It is also critical for achieving environmental and ethical awareness, values and attitudes, skills and behavior consistent with sustainable development and for effective public participation in decision making.\nIn the year 2000 the United Nations Millennium Declaration was adopted, which emphasizes that a global development demands a comprehensive view. The declaration formed the basis of time –bound and measurable goals for development. It contained eight goals that should promote a global development. Among them were goals for reduction of poverty, reduction of infant mortality, reduction of the HIV/AIDS, malaria spreading and a sustainable development until 2015.\n\nWithin the Decade of Education for Sustainable Development the field of ESD in Germany has expanded a lot. There are broad school-networks and strong relationships between schools and out-of-school-education. Nevertheless, estimations say that the concept only has reached about 10% of the schools and many individual teachers all over the country. ESD and Global Education – which in the past were two different concepts – now work under the same headline. Global Education (in Germany \"Global Learning\") is a special entry to ESD which emphasises the relationships between north and south in a globalized world and discusses injustices between the different parts of the world, partly with reference to the postcolonial discussion. The German education ministry has reached out a “Curriculum Framework Education for Sustainable Development” which has to develop more activities in the school sector.\n\nA climate-friendly school is a school that uses education for sustainable development (ESD) to promote a culture of sustainability in which students, staff and families hold shared values and beliefs about the importance of taking action for a more sustainable society. Taking care of the environment and contributing to reducing climate change is an integral part of this. Climate action means different things to different schools. Some schools see climate action as key to “doing their part” to take care of the planet. For other schools, it is about addressing issues directly affecting them.\n\nTVET (Technical and Vocational Education and Training) is education and training which provides knowledge and skills for employment. TVET is recognised to be a crucial vehicle for social equity, inclusion and sustainabile development.\n\nTVET systems are progressively expected to provide education for sustainability as part of their core curricula. TVET prepares people for work in a range of sectors, e.g construction, waste management and agriculture, industries that consume enormous amounts of energy, raw materials and water. Sustainability requires that those working in these sectors have the requisite technical knowledge to make these industries more sustainable.\n\nTVET systems often have a regional or international variations along with language skills needed for labour mobility. TVET systems are able to provide education for sustainable development and global citizenship, and for meeting the demand for an integrated approach to skill types and diverse fields of study.\n\nGCED and ESD pursue the same vision: It is all about empowering learners of all ages to become proactive contributors to a more just, peaceful, tolerant, inclusive and sustainable world. Both GCED and ESD:\nBoth GCED and ESD help learners understand the interconnected world in which they live and the complexities of the global challenges faced. GCED and ESD help learners to develop their knowledge, skills, attitudes and values so that they can address these challenges responsibly and effectively now and in the future.\n\nClimate Change Education (CCE) is grounded in the holistic approach of Education for Sustainable Development (ESD) which incorporates key sustainable development issues such as climate change, disaster risk reduction and others into education, in a way that addresses the interdependence of environmental sustainability, economic viability and social justice. It promotes participatory teaching and learning methods that motivate and empower learners to change their behaviour and take action for sustainable development.\n\nESD concerns the core of teaching and learning and should not be considered as an add-on to the existing curriculum. Mainstreaming ESD requires integrating sustainability topics into the curricula, but also sustainability-related intended learning outcomes.“Curricula need to ensure that all children and young people learn not just foundation skills, but also transferable skills such as critical thinking, problem solving, advocacy and con ict resolution, to help them become responsible global citizens” (UNESCO, 2014c: 36). From the development of sustainability curricula it is expected to “improve the capacity of our education systems to prepare people to pursue sustainable development.\"Reviews of official curriculum documents show that “many countries now include sustainability and/ or environmental themes as one of the general goals of education”. In primary and secondary education most progress has been made in curriculum development towards ESD. “Close to 40% of Member States indicate that their greatest achievement over the DESD has been the integration of ESD into formal curricula, with another fth describing speci c school projects as being their most important contributions to ESD”.\n\nThe Maurice Ile Durable policy was introduced in 2008 with the objective of making Mauritius a world model of sustainable development by 2020. Education is one of its five pillars, with a multi-stakeholder working group put in place to integrate ESD into all levels of education. The goal is to reorient the education system towards sustainability, build capacity at all levels and strengthen awareness of key issues. As Mauritius reports, ESD is now ‘part of the National Curriculum Framework and because of the Maurice Ile Durable societal project, ESD is being addressed by many formal and nonformal institutions/organizations’.\n\nIn Togo, the educational policy framework (Lakalaka) is grounded in national culture and includes a new, ESD-oriented curriculum entitled Quality Education for a Sustainable Future.\n\nFinland is reforming the national core curricula for pre-school and basic education to support and promote sustainable development and well-being following the value basis of education, where the necessity of a sustainable way of living and eco-social understanding is emphasized. The aim is to support all students in developing the knowledge, skills, values and attitudes that promote their ability to understand the importance of a sustainable future.\n\nIn Manitoba, ESD is a priority action area of the government and has been embedded in the overall purpose of primary and secondary education. It is now government policy ‘to ensure that all Manitoba’s children and youth have access to an array of educational opportunities such that every learner experiences success through relevant, engaging and high quality education that prepares them for lifelong learning and citizenship in a democratic, socially just and sustainable society’. This statement is included in the mission of the provincial Ministry of Education and Advanced Learning. In response to this policy commitment, ESD has been integrated into the curriculum from kindergarten up to 12th grade with specific learning outcomes identified in science, social studies, health and physical education. Building the capacity of educators and school leaders, as well as dedicated funding to ensure the development of sustainability practices, principles, programmes and partnerships, helps schools to embed sustainability into their classrooms, operations and management.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26254379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26254379", "title": "Gifted At-Risk", "text": "Gifted At-Risk\n\nGifted students are outstanding learners who are not usually considered risking academic failure or problems. However, gifted students can still underachieve. There are risks related to the student's giftedness. This concept was formally set forth in 1972 in the U.S. in the Marland Report:\n\nGifted and talented children are, in fact, deprived and can suffer psychological damage and permanent impairment of their abilities to function well which is equal to or greater than the similar deprivation suffered by any other population with special needs served by the Office of Education.\n\nAt first glance, labeling gifted children ‘at-risk’ seems to be questionable to those who are unfamiliar with the research. However, the following risks are listed in \"The Social and Emotional Development of Gifted Children\":\n\nThere is a cause-and-effect relationship between the unmet learning needs of gifted students and the above risks. “Research indicates that many of the emotional and social difficulties gifted students experience disappear when their educational climates are adapted to their level and pace of learning.”\n\nLinda Kreger Silverman enumerates these additional risks:\n\nFurther, there exists anecdotal evidence of truancy problems with gifted children, who sometimes miss school because of disengagement, and worse, fear of bullying. In 1999, legislation was introduced in Colorado to recognize gifted students as at-risk, with truancy as a factor, but the bill did not become law. \n\nLastly, meta-analysis from the paper “Gifted Students Who Drop Out—Who and Why: A Meta-Analytical Review of the Literature” by Kaskaloglu shows two key points. First, 4.5% of high school dropouts are gifted, and they leave school in part because of school-related issues. To understand the drop out rate, one must consider that the study cited indicates the percentage of children who both dropped out and who scored above 130 on an IQ test. One would expect a very small percentage of such children to drop out, given the ease with which they can excel in school. To expect more than one in ten would be hard to justify. Therefore, with only 2.27% of people scoring above 130 on IQ tests, to expect greater than 0.227% of dropouts to be gifted would be ostensibly far-fetched. Unfortunately, the actual percentage is closer to twenty times that. According to the \"Achievement Trap\", this problem is even more pronounced among economically disadvantaged children.\n\nThe National Association for Gifted Children (NAGC) maintains that gifted students and those with outstanding abilities require gifted education programs. Such programs will serve as tests in actual classroom settings allowing these youngsters to sustain their progress while in school. Gifted programs can positive shape the future of these children. Some longitudinal or observational research studies demonstrated that these talented programs have positive effects on post-secondary plans of these kids. \n\nIn 1996, American educational psychologists/educators Camila Benbow and Julian Stanley published a treatise that reviewed many years of evidence illustrating accomplishments of students with extreme intellectual potentials have declined significantly. One of the major arguments of Benbow and Stanley pointed out the K-12 budget for federal education allocated a measly 0.0002 percent for gifted education. \n\n20 years later, another journal, Policy Insights from Behavioral and Brain Sciences published a paper showing this figure has not changed. In 2015, the budget for federal education was $49.8 billion with only 0.0002 percent apportioned to gifted education. Continuing inadequate investment in gifted children for several decades generated a massive gap between educational, leadership, and professional (work-related) attainment of low-income and high-income youngsters.\n\nThe Jack Kent Cookie Foundation conducted an independent study in 2007 which established that endowed but low-income students fail to reach their full potentials. This Foundation maintains scholarship programs that motivate and support exceptional and hard-working students with financial issues. \n\nStanford University professor and Hoover fellow Caroline M. Hoxby and The Leadership Gift president Christopher Avery conducted a study on high achievers but belonging to financially deprived households and found out these young people do not attempt to enter the country’s top educational institutions. The New York Times (March 16, 2013) published an article that the two educators analyzed students who took the SAT standardized test the previous year. Based on that data, these researchers found out a low 34% of seniors with the highest scores in the bottom portion of income distribution enrolled one of the United States’ 238 most discriminating colleges. \n\n2018 statistics from the Department of Education revealed that demand for the Gifted and Talented Program continues to decline. Some 6.773 qualified children applied for possible positions in the Kindergarten through Third Grade program which is the lowest figure since 2014. The number is down 16 percent during that year when more than 8,000 students inquired about placement. The DOE’s position is this decline in applicants for said program comes from population transfer or contentment with zoned schools.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7399360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7399360", "title": "Hispanic-serving institution", "text": "Hispanic-serving institution\n\nA Hispanic-Serving Institution, or HSI, is defined in federal law (the Higher Education Opportunity Act, Title V, 2008) as an accredited, degree-granting, public or private nonprofit institution of higher education with 25% or more total undergraduate Hispanic full-time equivalent (FTE) student enrollment. The federal definition can be found here. In the 2016-17 academic year, 492 institutions met the federal enrollment criterion.\n\nAccording to Title III of the Higher Education Act of 1965, in order for an HSI to receive federal funding it must satisfy the following criteria:\n\n\nThe Department of Education offers grants to institutions defined as HSIs which can be used for many academic purposes serving all ethnicities at the institution including faculty development, funds and administrative management, development and improvement of academic programs, endowment funds, curriculum development, scientific or laboratory equipment for teaching, renovation of instructional facilities, joint use of facilities, academic tutoring, counseling programs and student support services.\n\nIn 1992, the Hispanic Association of Colleges and Universities led the effort to convince Congress to formally recognize campuses with high Hispanic enrollment as federally designated HSIs and to begin targeting federal appropriations to those campuses. Today, HACU represents nearly 470 colleges and universities committed to Hispanic higher education success in the U.S., Puerto Rico, Latin America, Spain and Portugal. Although HACU member institutions in the U.S. represent less than 13% of all higher education institutions nationwide, together they enroll more than two-thirds of all Hispanic college students. HACU is the only national educational association that represents Hispanic-Serving Institutions (HSIs).\n\nAny HSI can benefit from the assistance to increase the amount of Hispanic students in higher education, and most importantly, the amount of Hispanic students graduating from a higher education institution. To be considered an HSI, universities have to meet certain criteria. 2-and 4-year colleges and universities had to have at least a 25% Hispanic enrollment total. This percentage was the minimum required by the Higher Education Act in 1992 (Laden, 2001). Because HSIs goals are to serve primarily Hispanic populations (Shehadeh & Termos, 2014), they are found in metropolitan areas with increasing Hispanic populations. Some of these areas include Los Angeles, San Antonio, Chicago, Philadelphia, Detroit, and Miami (Laden, 2001). Vigil discusses the increasing rates of Hispanics in these areas due to the demand of unskilled temporary labor and for seemingly attainable housing opportunities. Although HSI's help Hispanic students in higher education, \"HSI's do not have a declared, specific mission to serve Hispanics\" (Laden, 2001).\n\nTitle V of the Act, introduced in 1998, is another funding stream specifically for HSIs to assist them in improving their higher educational provision.\n\nHSI federal funding grew in the early years (1998-2004) of Title V (the original and still linchpin HSI federal funding program), then leveled off from 2004-07 as the number of HSIs and Hispanic college students continued to grow. It increased dramatically in 2008 with the addition of the HSI STEM program, but since the Recession of 2009-10, it has actually declined while HSIs and Hispanic enrollments have increased even more rapidly. This situation needs to change if HSIs are to play their role in educating the nation’s workforce in this century.\n\nOne of the main challenges HSIs face as they address their critical role is persistent underfunding relative to other degree-granting institutions. According to 2016-17 IPEDS data, HSIs on average received $3,117 per student on average from all federal revenue sources, compared to $4,605 per student for all degree-granting institutions, just two-thirds the funding to educate a disproportionately low-income student population. The result is that HSIs only receive on average 68 cents for every federal dollar going to all other colleges and universities annually.\n\nBelow are institutions of higher education designated as Hispanic-Serving Institutions in the United States based on 2014-2015 enrollment data. For a complete list of institutions that meet the 25% federal enrollment criterion in the 2016-2017 academic year, click here.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48684094", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48684094", "title": "I Look Like an Engineer", "text": "I Look Like an Engineer\n\nThe I Look Like an Engineer movement was created in August 2015 by software developer Isis Anchalee (formerly Isis Wenger) as a response to the backlash the OneLogin recruitment ad in which she was featured received. The movement aspired to break the stereotypes and promote diversity around unrepresented groups, particularly (Women, POC, and LGBTQ+) within the engineering industry. Its primary tactic is the use of the hashtag #ILookLikeAnEngineer on social media sites such as Twitter, Facebook, and Instagram, along with pictures of engineers or engineering students.\n\nThe I Look Like an Engineer movement has sparked other similar movements that also seek to break stereotypes in their industry, such as I Look Like a Surgeon, I Look like a Professor and I Look Like a Civil Engineer.\n\nIn the summer of 2015 OneLogin, a software company in San Francisco created a recruitment campaign aimed at attracting engineers to their home office in San Francisco. Four employees were invited to participate, including Anchalee. The ads were placed in the BART public transit stations and showed several OneLogin engineers sharing their experience working for the company. The ad featuring Anchalee went viral on several social media sites. A week after the launch of the campaign went viral, OneLogin posted an article on their blog that talked about the importance of diversity, inclusion, and innovation.\n\nThe OneLogin recruitment ad featuring Isis Anchalee went viral as her particular ad received comments stating the belief that she was a model and not an actual engineer. Anchalee took to social media where she posted a picture of herself holding a piece of paper describing her job and a caption with the hashtag, #ILookLikeanEngineer. In her post she stated her belief that it is important to raise awareness in tech diversity and break the stereotypes of what an engineer should look like.\n\nHer post started the hashtag trend and the hashtag was used 86,000 times by August 7, 2015. The hashtag has been used in approximately 50 countries. The hashtag is mainly used by women and LGBTQ engineers. Subsequently, Anchalee put up a now-defunct webpage to establish a safe platform for individuals to share their experiences related to diversity issues within tech fields.\n\nIn an effort to make a lasting impact, Michelle Glauser (the spouse of Anchalee co-worker) began a fundraising campaign using Indiegogo to create billboards with pictures that people had shared on social media using the hashtag #ILookLikeanEngineer. The proceeds were used to put up more billboards to further the I Look Like an Engineer campaign and excess proceeds were used to fund organizations that teach programming to minorities. The fundraiser’s goal was to raise $3,500. The campaigned ended on September 5, 2015 with $47,285 raised.\n\nConcurrently, an #ILookLikeanEngineer community gathering organized by Michelle Glauser through Eventbrite as part of efforts to continue further the movement was hosted on August 13, 2015 in San Francisco, CA. During the gathering, photographers collected portraits of willing participants for the billboards and as an effort to document the event. The event was sponsored by Segment, Rackspace, OneLogin, and HackBright Academy. The event included networking, discussions and a Q&A panel which included Isis Wenger, Alicia Morga, Wayne Sutton, Erica Baker, Leslie Miley, and Dom DeGuzman.\n\nThe struggles that women face in the field of engineering have a long-documented history. In the postwar era, female engineering students found themselves in a mixture of conflicting and positive situations that shaped not only their professional experiences but the field itself. Women faced backlash from not just male students and professors who objectified and viewed female engineers as potential girlfriends instead of fellow students, but also from women faculty or older female students who demanded that younger women endured the same struggles they did.\n\nThe campus and corporate climate did not change until the mid-1970s when companies began to face civil rights pressure to be more inclusive of female engineers. However, even with these radical changes women continued to experience subtle and overt forms of discrimination in the workplace. During the 1970s, organizations like the Society of Women Engineers (founded in 1952) among others provided women with support and guidance both on college campuses and in the corporate world.\n\nRecognizing the challenges that women faced and continue to face in male-dominated fields raises awareness about the importance of diversity and intersectionality in the field of engineering and other tech fields. Social movements are taking place in online spaces more frequently as the community of users tends to be wider and more diverse. It is here where users can use their own personal experiences and public outcry to start global dialogues that can enact change.\n\n"}
{"id": "21256660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21256660", "title": "Juancito Pinto", "text": "Juancito Pinto\n\nJuancito Pinto (also known as \"Bono Juancito Pinto\" is a program of the government of Evo Morales in Bolivia which improves access to education by giving school vouchers to children. It is part of the state's economic policy focused on fostering social development. \n\nThe program was created by decree on October 26, 2006 establishing an annual cash grant of Bs 200 (US$28.50) for each child from 1st to 6th grade in public elementary schools. This facilitates school attendance, particularly for low-income children, by helping offset the costs of transportation, books, and uniforms. The program is named after a young drummer in the Bolivian Army who was killed in the War of the Pacific and is today regarded as a hero.\n\nThe money for Juancito Pinto comes from funds generated by the nationalization of Bolivia's hydrocarbons industry in 2006.\n\nIn July, 2008, President Evo Morales modified the Decree, widening the benefit to 8th grade of elementary public schools. This modification also made the Ministry of Education responsible for the bond payment.\n"}
{"id": "31617516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31617516", "title": "Kaichi School Museum", "text": "Kaichi School Museum\n\nThe in Matsumoto, Nagano Prefecture was one of the first schools in Japan. It opened in a temporary building in May 1873, the year after the first major education reforms were introduced by the new Ministry of Education. The school moved to new premises in April 1876. This western-style building, fused with Japanese elements, was designated an Important Cultural Property in 1961. Relocated two years later during work on the nearby Metoba River, in 1965 the old school building was turned into an education museum.\n\n\n Matsumoto City - Kaichi School\n"}
{"id": "5358300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5358300", "title": "Kim Seelbrede", "text": "Kim Seelbrede\n\nKimberly Seelbrede is a beauty queen from Ohio who held the title Miss USA 1981. Kimberly Seelbrede is a licensed psychotherapist in the state of New York. Kimberly holds a graduate degree from New York University.\nFollowing the pageant, Kimberly embarked on a career in television, commercials and print modelling. She made numerous appearances in soap operas, appeared in national and regional commercials and print ads. Kim signed a lucrative contract as the Sony Beta Movie Spokesperson where she appeared in posters and television advertisements. In 1982, Kimberly was asked to pose for Playboy but declined.\n\nSeelbrede, who hails from Greenville, Ohio won the Miss Ohio USA pageant in late 1980. She represented her state at the nationally televised 1981 Miss USA pageant that was held in Biloxi, Mississippi in May 1981, where she became the second woman from Ohio to win the Miss USA title. \n\nSeelbrede later competed at the Miss Universe pageant held in New York City in July 1981. This was the first time the pageant had been held in the United States for ten years: the pageant had been staged internationally for the previous decade after originally being held in the United States for the first twenty years of the pageant's existence. Seelbrede placed in the semi-finals at the pageant, which was won by Irene Saez of Venezuela. Her relatively low placement was somewhat unexpected, as she was in the lead in the earliest portion of the contest then fell to second in the preliminary competition. There was speculation that a judge was instructed by a pageant official to give Seelbrede the lowest possible score in an effort to keep her from placing in the finals.\n\nThe host of the 1981 Miss Universe pageant, Bob Barker, has been criticized for his sarcastic manner during the interview round. It has been speculated that Seelbrede's failure to advance into the finals during the main competition was due to his sardonic questioning about the “exciting” places that she had visited since becoming Miss USA in May that year.\n\nSeelbrede was the second Miss Ohio USA to win the national title, the first being Sue Ann Downey in 1965.\n\nKim Seelbrede is a licensed psychotherapist in New York, coach and well-being expert consultant.\n\n"}
{"id": "29199243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29199243", "title": "Learning society", "text": "Learning society\n\nLearning society is an educational philosophy advocated by the OECD and UNESCO that positions education as the key to a nation’s economic development, and holds that education should extend beyond formal learning (based in traditional educational institutions – schools, universities etc.) into informal learning centres to support a knowledge economy (known as a “world education culture”).\n\nA learning society regards the actual process of learning as an ‘activity, not a place’ – that is, it takes place outside of regular educational institutions, and is thus also decentralised and deregulated, a tenet of globalisation theory.\n\nLearning societies are broader in context, drawing on elements of systems to facilitate the ability for lifelong learning in the individual. If lifelong learning is about the ability of the individual, then this is enabled through a Learning Society.\n\nIt is the ‘socialisation’ of individual lifelong learning, and is currently aided through technologies and the increasing focus on social networking, by using the shared learning experiences of individuals as a basis for a larger network of education that exists formally and informally (schools, universities, job-training, support, collaboration, feedback etc.).\n\nThe history of the concept of the learning society can be traced through the chronological development of its theoretical framework. As the framework has developed overtime, so has the sophistication of the idea of the learning society as it applies to an inter-connected 21st-century model, particularly in relation to the shift from state-based educational institutions to more decentralised organisations.\n\nIn 1973, Donald Schön developed the idea that change is constant in a modern state (‘loss of the stable state’) and thus to adapt to this change, there must be a constant state of learning within the society of that state.\nFurther, Robert Maynard Hutchins also argued that given the ever-changing nature of states, particularly in business organisations, it wasn’t possible for educational institutions to keep up, or even be expected to. \nLater, Torsten Husén and Stewart Ranson emphasise that learning has a certain ‘fluidity’ (with no start or end points) that exists outside of formal systems and this seems to reflect a liberalised market model of free movements of knowledge as required by organisations and systems.\n\nDeveloping this framework to a more contemporary basis, it is seen that the requirement for a ‘learning society’ is a response to the broader issues of globalisation whereby richer countries have then become increasingly dependent on “knowledge workers” rather than traditional manufacturing industries (now often outsourced to developing nations), and thus need their workforces to become adaptable, particularly in light of new technological developments which are seen as central to the knowledge economy.\nWith this model the concept of the learning society will be transplanted to other countries globally, much like any other product on a global market. This is in keeping with the philosophy of the World Bank that learning and education is central to improved development, justice, the environment and eradication of poverty (and thus global terror threats).\n\nA learning society is generally considered to be the basis from which lifelong learning can take place.\nFrom a theoretical standpoint, not only does the learning society provide the framework in which lifelong learning is allowed to flourish, but that in fact both elements mutually support each other. That is, a learning society gives rise to the capacity for lifelong learning, but lifelong learning allows, through socialisation, for individuals to contribute back to the learning abilities of broader society in the form of wisdom (known as a ‘koinosophic’ or ‘wise’ society).\n\nWhile the notion of the learning society can be sometimes difficult to grasp (relying as it does on concepts such as ‘fluidity’ and ‘informality’, and moving outside of traditional educative boundaries such as schools & universities), some scholars believe that a learning society can be identified as having 4 main attributes. These are:\n\nThis is described as the tendency of the learning society to have a dependency on technological advances. This can be regarded as the shifts towards knowledge economies in developed countries where the concept of the learning society is most prevalent, but also vitally as acknowledging the importance of the internet in allowing education to move beyond traditional boundaries and move across transnational borders instantly.\n\nThis attribute is part of the broader conscious acknowledgement that is made by states and institutions that lifelong learning (as part of the learning society) exists specifically to contribute to the economic growth of a country and increase the democratic engagement of its citizens. Rather than being a general global shift towards an educational trend, it is aims towards specific outcomes that societies consider to be for their betterment.\n\nThis attribute requires learning societies to recognise not just the role of lifelong learning within the broader community, but also to enable it to be adaptable to changes, and flexible to specific individual needs. These changes may come about as a result of technological advances, legislative amendments or personal preferences of the individual undertaking the education. According to Jarvis:\n(italics)(indent) “...education will be but one more provider of information in the learning market and the educational qualification will become the public recognition of a private process.” \n(normal)(no indent) Thus, it will be the awareness of an individual’s ability to learn that will be of value, rather than what that individual has learned in the past.\n\nThe final attribute of a learning society requires that, like many products on a global market, education becomes a commodity and that students or participants in the learning process become consumers, able to pick and choose the types of education that they would like, to suit their own personal preferences. This would be facilitated through technological advances that allow students to access learning resources (and qualifications) globally. Under this attribute, education would then become tailored towards providing “customer satisfaction” to become economically justifiable.\n\nOne of the most prevalent examples is the model of the Open Universities, common in the UK and Australia. They allow students to work towards qualifications accredited by existing higher educational institutions but ‘cherry-pick’ the courses they have a preference for, while at the same time conducting their learning online.\nThis is best typified by a testimonial found on the Open Universities Australia website:\n\nIn 1993, China aimed by the year 2000 to increase to 4% of GDP its spending on education in an effort to move the Chinese population towards being a learning society. It did not meet this target, but in 2009 resolved to meet the same goal by 2020 (which would total some US$200 billion in investment). This proposed investment would address reforms such as:\n\nOn the United States Department of Education website there is very little reference to the concept of the learning society. What does exist consists of Taiwan's EduCity of networked schools and classrooms in the National Education Technology Plan 2010\n\nThe concept of lifelong learning (as facilitated by a learning society) would allow for higher education to be undertaken at any stage of the students life (perhaps even on more than one occasion) rather than at the traditional undergraduate stage.\n\nBased very much in the “world education culture” model”, learning societies are seen as being central to competitive knowledge economy in a globalised world.\nAdvocates of learning societies see traditional institutions as no longer being central to lifelong learning. For example, transnational corporations such as Cisco believe that it will not come about simply through building more schools and universities. These organisations also advocate for the role of lifelong learning within their own structures.\n\nDebates are argued addressing the role of how existing higher education institutions fit into the concept of the learning society. Despite the traditional argument that the learning society eschews traditional institutions, some advocates of the concept reaffirm the role of universities as being central to where the learning society begins and argue that “the university’s role in society is precisely to learn and understand itself and its environment...The more it addresses the concerns of society in its research, and the more it widens access to all members of society to benefit from the fruits of the research, the more it supports a genuine ‘learning society’” \n\nIn September 2010, newly elected Australian Prime Minister Julia Gillard reflected the growing diversification of the education sector in her cabinet, by abandoning the role of a traditional ‘Education Minister’ and instead subsuming the role of higher education into a ministerial portfolio that also included jobs, skills and workplace relations – this move was criticised by many high-profile universities in Australia who argued that it undermined the central role of higher education as a place for learning in society.\n\nFurther, advocates of the ‘Learning Society’ also call upon partnerships between public and private enterprises to expand the scope of education to allow for more powerful educational learning experiences inside and outside of traditional institutions. These partnerships are seen to increase supplement funding levels (where inadequate public funds exists) as well as open traditional institutions and methods to technology and industry”.\n\nOne criticism is that the learning society does not actually exist, but is simply a tool or theory invoked by powers (governments, IGO’s) to push certain agendas. This argument maintains that it is easy to see how the idea could be used to justify World Bank & OECD programs in developing countries Or rather that it is nothing more than a vague term to describe an unfocused notion of 'learning on the internet'\n\nIt is often difficult to find, despite the prevalence of the term ‘learning society’ amongst policy makers and politicians, information of real strategic funding from governments or corporations that reflect the theories and approaches of the learning society.\n\nWith regard to questions being asked of the concept of the learning society, beyond ‘on-the-job’ training corporations may speak of the value of learning, but could it simply be another term for ‘flexibility’ on the part of employees? Is the term simply a term used to define current (yet inevitable) changes in education technology in an increasingly connected world? In the case of China's proposed improvements to their education system, it could be argued that much of the reforms are simply a timeline of general educational upgrades, rather than adhering to any particular philosophy unique to a 'learning society'.\n\nFurther, a lack of specificity can exist in much of the literature surrounding the learning society. For example, the Cisco white paper speaks of:\nbut how these particular skills are unique to the idea of a learning society (as opposed to learning generally) is not clear.\n\nFurther, there is criticism that standardisation of assessment and credentialing ignores the cultural differences between global communities, and thus erodes important distinctions that may allow learning and education to be effectively embedded in those cultures”.\n\n"}
{"id": "54852729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54852729", "title": "List of education journals", "text": "List of education journals\n\nThis page lists peer-reviewed journals in educational and closely related fields.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nJournal of Language and Literacy Education\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "75726", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75726", "title": "Lists of universities and colleges by country", "text": "Lists of universities and colleges by country\n\nThis is a list of lists of universities and colleges by country, sorted by continent and region. The lists represent educational institutions throughout the world which provide higher education in tertiary, quaternary, and post-secondary education.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9406445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9406445", "title": "Lluís Claret", "text": "Lluís Claret\n\nLluís Claret (born 1951 in Andorra la Vella) is an Andorran cellist. He was born in Andorra in 1951 where he began his musical education at the age of 9. In 1964 he moved to Barcelona, won major distinctions at the Conservatory of the Liceu, and began working with Enric Casals. Claret continued his studies in France, Italy and in the USA. Throughout his career he has been especially committed to chamber music.\n\nHe has performed with many noted orchestras including National Symphony de Washington, Moscow Philharmonic, National Orchestra of France, English Chamber Orchestra, Hungarian Philharmonic, Czech Philharmonic.\n\nHe won first prizes at a number of prestigious international competitions. He is a founding member of the Trio de Barcelona and frequently collaborates with well-known musicians. He teaches at music schools and conservatories and he also regularly participates in the juries of major international competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "30329666", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30329666", "title": "Maria de Lourdes Martins", "text": "Maria de Lourdes Martins\n\nMaria de Lourdes Martins (26 May 1926 – 31 August 2009) was a Portuguese pianist and composer.\n\nMaria de Lourdes Martins was born in Lisbon, Portugal, the daughter of Lisbon Conservatory teacher Maria Helena Martins. Martins studied at the Lisbon Conservatory with Abreu Mota, Macário Santiago Kastner and Marcos Garin. She continued her studies in composition with Artur Santos and Jorge Croner de Vasconcellos.\n\nAfter completing her studies, Martins took a position teaching at the Lisbon Conservatory. She introduced the Orff-Schulwerk system from the Salzburg Mozarteum in Portugal, and won the Calouste Gulbenkian Foundation Composition Award two times.\n\nSelected works include:\n"}
{"id": "54320747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54320747", "title": "Mary Lynde Craig", "text": "Mary Lynde Craig\n\nMary Lynde Craig (previously Mary Lynde Foster, and Mary Lynde Hoffman; March 24, 1834 – June 20, 1921) was an American writer, teacher, and attorney. She owned property in San Francisco, and was an activist for women's property rights. Craig served as Associate Editor of the Redlands, California \"The Citrograph\". In 1893, she was one of four women practicing law in California. In 1891, she gave the \"Address of Weicome\" at the organization of Sequoia Chapter, San Francisco. While attending the National Editorial Association at Chicago with her husband, in May 1893, she also had opportunity to speak to other large audiences—once at the Auditorium, once at the Art Palace, and once at the Woman's Building. She served as president of the Pacific Coast Women's Press Association and historian of the Hastings Law column.\n\nMary Delano Catherine Lynde was born in Vermont on March 24, 1834. Her parent were Aaron Phipps Lynde and Nancy Melinda (Walker) Lynde. She was of American Revolutionary War ancestry, descended from Lieut. Benjamin Lynde, of the Continental Army.\n\nLynde moved to California in 1859 to take up a teaching post at the Lincoln Primary School on Fifth and Market Streets. By the following year, she was working as the principal and teacher at Denman School. On February 1, 1862, she married Samuel Foster with whom she had her only child, Samuel Lynde Foster (1863–1951). After Foster's death, in 1866, she moved briefly back to Springfield where she taught in the newly created consolidated secondary school, before returning to San Francisco to teach at Lincoln Grammar School and then later at San Francisco Girls' High School. When Foster's father died in 1872, her mother moved to San Francisco, where she taught in the Chinese Mission and lived with Foster. Sometime later, she married Henry Fitz Warren Hoffman, a prominent businessman and benefactor of the city.\n\nHenry died in December 1890 and in September, 1891 Hoffman entered University of California, Hastings College of the Law. The reason she gave for entering law school at the age of 60 was to enable her to better support herself. On December 10, 1891, she gave the \"Address of Welcome\" at the organization of Sequoia Chapter, San Francisco, thereafter serving as historian of the Chapter. About this time, she gave an address upon \"Country Roads and City Streets,\" before the Pacific Coast Women's Press Association, of which she was treasurer. This address was published by the Press Association as a monograph, and having been translated into Norwegian, was widely read in the US and in Europe. Scipio Craig, president of the Editorial Association of Southern California, published the address, intact, in his paper, \"The Citrograph\", and sent greeting to its author. On November 12, 1892, at Vallejo, California, they married. She wrote for magazines and newspapers from New York to San Francisco. At the time, she was the president of the Pacific Coast Women's Press association, historian of the Hastings Law column, and \"a writer of note\". In 1893, she was admitted to the California Bar, as only the second woman in California to practice law. She then returned to college to take the degree of LL.B. Having taught for many years at the San Francisco Girls' High School, Craig retired in 1894.\n\nAfter her third marriage, Craig became the Associate Editor of \"The Citrograph\". While in Chicago, in 1893, Craig spoke to large audiences, including at the Auditorium, at the Art Palace, and at the Woman's Building. Craig kept a home in San Francisco and Redlands, California. While a widow, she superintended the studies of her son who received a degree from Harvard College.\n\nCraig died on 20 June 1921 at her home in San Francisco. The tens of thousands of dollars that writing and teaching had brought her, was spent on others. Hoffman Avenue in San Francisco was named for Craig.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18046770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18046770", "title": "Master of Business Communication", "text": "Master of Business Communication\n\nThe Master of Business Communication (MBC) is a specialized academic degree typically conferred by a business school. The degree incorporates many elements of the Master of Business Administration MBA degree with a specialized focus on corporate communications, public relations and marketing communications.\n\nThe degree typically requires three years of full-time study but may take longer when undertaken on a part-time basis. It is evident that some institutions are offering the degree in similar structure to the MBA. The aim of the program is to educate on the interdisciplinary principles of business management as they apply to the corporate communicator.\n"}
{"id": "41996520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41996520", "title": "Mike Sharples", "text": "Mike Sharples\n\nMichael (Mike) Sharples (born 14 December 1952 in Sale, UK) is a British academic working in Educational technology. He is a Professor of Educational Technology at The Open University.\n\nSharples graduated from St. Andrews University in 1976 with a BSc. Hons in Computational Science, then moved to the Dept of Artificial Intelligence at the University of Edinburgh as a post graduate student. His PhD thesis was on the topic of Cognition, Computers and Creative Writing.\n\nSharples held various academic appointments before becoming director for the centre for educational technology and distance learning at the University of Birmingham, UK, and later professor of learning sciences and Director of Learning Sciences Research Institute at the University of Nottingham.\n\nSharples' research focus is on adapting and developing new technology and socio-technical systems to facilitate learning, such as the use of mobile devices.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41162695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41162695", "title": "Minileaks", "text": "Minileaks\n\nMinileaks is a non-profit organization whose aim is to promote freedom of speech and civil justice in Spain. Inspired by the ideals of the 2011 Spanish protests 15-M movement, the project was founded in 2010 by journalists Eduardo Laporte and Iñigo Antolín and garnered significant attention from the Spanish and Latin American media\n\nThe collective's chief modus operandi is to publicize cases of corporate or government wrongdoing against individuals, using documentary evidence obtained by the victim to verify the reports. Cases are submitted anonymously via email or post.\n\nThe project has been on an indeterminate hiatus since Spring 2013, although it maintains an active social media presence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5754458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5754458", "title": "Morrin Centre", "text": "Morrin Centre\n\nThe Morrin Centre is a cultural centre in Quebec City, Quebec, Canada. It is designed to educate the public about the historic contribution and present-day culture of local English-speakers. The centre contains the private English-language library of the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec, heritage spaces for events, and interpretation services.\n\nIt is located in a former prison building that has been designated a National Historic Site of Canada.\n\nThis site has served four different functions:\n\n\nIn 2004, the Literary and Historical Society of Quebec became owners of the historic site through an emphyteutic lease.\nIn the last decade, the Society has broadened its mandate. The building was entirely renovated, and transformed into the Morrin Centre, which not only houses the library but also acts as Quebec City’s English-language cultural centre and a historical interpretation site.\n\nThe Museum is affiliated with: CMA, CHIN, and Virtual Museum of Canada.\n\n"}
{"id": "5208092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5208092", "title": "Museumsufer", "text": "Museumsufer\n\nMuseumsufer is the name of a landscape of museums in Frankfurt, Hesse, Germany, lined up on both banks of the river Main or in close vicinity. The centre is the historic art museum Städel. The other museums were added, partly by transforming historic villas, partly by building new museums, in the 1980s by cultural politician Hilmar Hoffmann.\n\nThe idea for a group of different museums in Frankfurt was proposed in 1977 by Hilmar Hoffmann, who was then as \"Kulturdezernent\" responsible for culture in the city. Before, architect had proposed a concept to the forum for development (\"Frankfurter Forum für Stadtentwicklung\"). Between 1980 and 1990, existing museums were expanded and many new ones built, often including historic villas. Architects included internationally known Richard Meier, Oswald Mathias Ungers, Josef Paul Kleihues, Günter Behnisch and Hans Hollein.\n\nBeginning in 2008, Frankfurt has restored and expanded some of it museums.g The Städel was expanded by an annex, and the Fil Museum was renovated.\n\n\n\nFour museums are located in the Old Town but not right on the river bank:\n\nThe exhibition hall Portikus was opened on an island at the Alte Brücke in 2006. \n\nThe street on the south is called Schaumainkai and is often partially closed to traffic for Frankfurt's largest flea market each Saturday. Two festivals focus on the Museumsufer, the \"Nacht der Museen\" when several museums open at night, and the \"Museumsuferfest\" in August.\n"}
{"id": "4239803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4239803", "title": "Patrick Cramer", "text": "Patrick Cramer\n\nPatrick Cramer (born 2 February 1969 in Stuttgart, Germany) is a German chemist, structural biologist, and molecular systems biologist.\n\nPatrick Cramer studied chemistry at the Universities of Stuttgart and Heidelberg (Germany) from 1989 until 1995. He completed a part of his studies as ERASMUS scholar at the University of Bristol in the UK. As a research student he also worked in the lab of Sir Alan Fersht in Cambridge, UK at the MRC Laboratory for Molecular Biology (LMB) site. In 1995 until 1998 he worked as a PhD student in laboratory of Christoph W. Müller at the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL) in Grenoble, France. He obtained his PhD in natural sciences (Dr. rer. nat.) from the University of Heidelberg in 1998. From 1999 until 2001 Cramer worked as postdoctoral researcher and fellow of the German Research Foundation (DFG) in the laboratory of the later Nobel Prize laureate Roger D. Kornberg at Stanford University, USA.\n\nIn 2001 Patrick Cramer returned to Germany where he obtained a tenure-track professorship for biochemistry at the Gene Center of the University of Munich (Ludwig Maximilians University, LMU where he was later, in 2004, appointed full professor of biochemistry. Patrick Cramer headed the Gene Center of the University of Munich for 10 years, from 2004 until 2013. He also served as Dean of the School of Chemistry and Pharmacy from 2007 to 2009, and as Director of the Department of Biochemistry from 2010 to 2013. Cramer also was a member of the University Research Board from 2007 to 2013 and speaker of the research network grant SFB464 of the German Research Council (DFG).\n\nOn January 1, 2014 Patrick Cramer was appointed Director at the Max Planck Institute for Biophysical Chemistry in Göttingen, Germany.\n\nPatrick Cramer conducts basic research as the head of the Department of Molecular Biology at the Max Planck Institute in Göttingen. He also works as a science manager and a honorary professor at the University of Göttingen. During his postdoctoral research with Roger Kornberg, Cramer determined the atomic, three-dimensional structure of RNA polymerase II, one of the biggest enzymes in the cell nucleus. This work played a decisive role when the Nobel Prize in chemistry was awarded to Roger Kornberg in 2006 for studies of the molecular basis of eukaryotic transcription.\n\nThe laboratory of Patrick Cramer investigates the molecular mechanisms and systemic principles of gene transcription in eukaryotic cells. The laboratory uses integrated structural biology methods, including X-ray crystallography, cryo-electron microscopy, and biochemical tools. The Cramer laboratory also uses functional genomics and computational biology approaches to study the principles of transcription in living cells.\n\nThe group of Patrick Cramer created the first molecular movie of transcription initiation and elongation. Moreover, Patrick Cramer developed methods to analyze fundamental aspects of RNA metabolism in cells by integrating aspects of both molecular and systems biology. His long-term goal is to understand the expression and the regulation of the genome. The laboratory thus pioneers an approach that combines structural and genome-wide methods and may be referred to as molecular systems biology.\n\nPatrick Cramer also commits himself to the further development of life sciences in Germany and Europe. He was one of the founders of the national cluster of excellence \"Center for Integrated Protein Science (CIPSM)\" and initiated the construction of the new research building, the \"Munich Research Center for Molecular Biosystems (BioSysM)\". In addition, Cramer was one of the members of the scientific and technical advisory board of the Bavarian state government and worked on bioethics within the institute TTN. Patrick Cramer also serves as an organizer of international conferences, and on several scientific committees and advisory boards. Since 2016 Cramer chairs the Council of the European Molecular Biology Laboratory (EMBL)\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3247725", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3247725", "title": "Peace education", "text": "Peace education\n\nPeace education is the process of acquiring the \"values\", the \"knowledge\" and developing the \"attitudes, skills, and behaviors\" to live in harmony with oneself, with others, and with the natural environment.\n\nThere are numerous United Nations declarations on the importance of peace education. Ban Ki Moon, U.N. Secretary General, has dedicated the International Day of Peace 2013 to peace education in an effort to refocus minds and financing on the preeminence of peace education as the means to bring about a culture of peace. Koichiro Matsuura, the immediate past Director-General of UNESCO, has written of peace education as being of \"fundamental importance to the mission of UNESCO and the United Nations\". Peace education as a right is something which is now increasingly emphasized by peace researchers such as Betty Reardon and Douglas Roche. There has also been a recent meshing of peace education and human rights education.\n\nIan Harris and John Synott have described peace education as a series of \"teaching encounters\" that draw from people:\nJames Page suggests peace education be thought of as \"encouraging a commitment to peace as a settled disposition and enhancing the confidence of the individual as an individual agent of peace; as informing the student on the consequences of war and social injustice; as informing the student on the value of peaceful and just social structures and working to uphold or develop such social structures; as encouraging the student to love the world and to imagine a peaceful future; and as caring for the student and encouraging the student to care for others\".\n\nOften the theory or philosophy of peace education has been assumed and not articulated. Johan Galtung suggested in 1975 that no theory for peace education existed and that there was clearly an urgent need for such theory. More recently there have been attempts to establish such a theory. Joachim James Calleja has suggested that a philosophical basis for peace education might be located in the Kantian notion of duty. James Page has suggested that a rationale for peace education might be located in virtue ethics, consequentialist ethics, conservative political ethics, aesthetic ethics and the ethics of care.\n\nSince the early decades of the 20th century, \"peace education\" programs around the world have represented a spectrum of focal themes, including anti-nuclearism, international understanding, environmental responsibility, communication skills, nonviolence, conflict resolution techniques, democracy, human rights awareness, tolerance of diversity, coexistence and gender equality, among others. Some have also addressed spiritual dimensions of inner harmony, or synthesized a number of the foregoing issues into programs on world citizenship. While academic discourse on the subject has increasingly recognized the need for a broader, more holistic approach to peace education, a review of field-based projects reveals that three variations of peace education are most common: conflict resolution training, democracy education, and human rights education. New approaches are emerging and calling into question some of theoretical foundations of the models just mentioned. The most significant of these new approaches focuses on peace education as a process of worldview transformation.\n\nPeace education programs centered on conflict resolution typically focus on the social-behavioural symptoms of conflict, training individuals to resolve inter-personal disputes through techniques of negotiation and (peer) mediation. Learning to manage anger, \"fight fair\" and improve communication through skills such as listening, turn-taking, identifying needs, and separating facts from emotions, constitute the main elements of these programs. Participants are also encouraged to take responsibility for their actions and to brainstorm together on compromises\n\nIn general, approaches of this type aim to \"alter beliefs, attitudes, and behaviours...from negative to positive attitudes toward conflict as a basis for preventing violence\" (Van Slyck, Stern and Elbedour, 1999, emphasis added). There are various styles or approaches in conflict resolution training (ADR, Verbal Aikido, NVC) that can give the practitioner the means to accept the conflictual situation and orient it towards a peaceful resolution. As one peer mediation coordinator put it: \"Conflict is very natural and normal, but you can't go through your entire life beating everybody up—you have to learn different ways to resolve conflict\".\n\nPeace education programs centered on democracy education typically focus on the political processes associated with conflict, and postulate that with an increase in democratic participation the likelihood of societies resolving conflict through violence\nand war decreases. At the same time, \"a democratic society needs the commitment of citizens who accept the inevitability of conflict as well as the necessity for tolerance\" (U.S. Department of State, The Culture of Democracy, emphasis added). Thus programs of this kind attempt to foster a conflict-positive orientation in the community by training students to view conflict as a platform for creativity and growth.\n\nApproaches of this type train participants in the skills of critical thinking, debate and coalition-building, and promote the values of freedom of speech, individuality, tolerance of diversity, compromise and conscientious objection. Their aim is to produce \"responsible citizens\" who will hold their governments accountable to the standards of peace, primarily through adversarial processes. Activities are structured to have students \"assume the role of the citizen that chooses, makes decisions, takes positions, argues positions and respects the opinions of others\": skills that a multi-party democracy are\nbased upon. Based on the assumption that democracy decreases the likelihood of violence and war, it is assumed that these are the same skills necessary for creating a culture of peace.\n\nPeace education programs centered on raising awareness of human rights typically focus at the level of policies that humanity ought to adopt in order to move closer to a peaceful global community. The aim is to engender a commitment among participants to a vision of structural peace in which all individual members of the human race can exercise their personal freedoms and be legally protected from violence, oppression and indignity.\n\nApproaches of this type familiarize participants with the international covenants and declarations of the United Nations system; train students to recognize violations of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights; and promote tolerance, solidarity, autonomy and self-affirmation at the individual and collective levels.\n\nHuman rights education \"faces continual elaboration, a significant theory-practice gap and frequent challenge as to its validity\". In one practitioner's view:\n\"Human rights education does not work in communities fraught with conflict unless it is part of a comprehensive approach... In fact, such education can be counterproductive and lead to greater conflict if people become aware of rights which are not realized. In this respect, human rights education can increase the potential for conflict\"\nTo prevent these outcomes, many such programs are now being combined with aspects of conflict resolution and democracy education schools of thought, along with training in nonviolent action.\n\nSome approaches to peace education start from insights gleaned from psychology which recognize the developmental nature of human psychosocial dispositions. Essentially, while conflict-promoting attitudes and behaviours are characteristic of earlier phases of human development, unity-promoting attitudes and behaviours emerge in later phases of healthy development. H.B. Danesh (2002a, 2002b, 2004, 2005, 2007, 2008a, 2008b) proposes an \"Integrative Theory of Peace\" in which peace is understood as a psychosocial, political, moral and spiritual reality. Peace education, he says, must focus on the healthy development and maturation of human consciousness through assisting people to examine and transform their worldviews. Worldviews are defined as the subconscious lens (acquired through cultural, family, historical, religious and societal influences) through which people perceive four key issues: 1) the nature of reality, 2) human nature, 3) the purpose of existence, 4) the principles governing appropriate human relationships. Surveying a mass of material, Danesh argues that the majority of people and societies in the world hold conflict-based worldviews, which express themselves in conflicted intrapersonal, interpersonal, intergroup, and international relationships. He subdivides conflict-based worldviews into two main categories which he correlates to phases of human development: the Survival-Based Worldview and the Identity-Based Worldview. It is through the acquisition of a more integrative, Unity-Based Worldview that human capacity to mitigate conflict, create unity in the context of diversity, and establish sustainable cultures of peace, is increased—be it in the home, at school, at work, or in the international community.\n\nModern forms of peace education relate to new scholarly explorations and applications of techniques used in peace education internationally, in plural communities and with individuals. Critical Peace Education (Bajaj 2008, 2015; Bajaj & Hantzopoulos 2016; Trifonas & Wright 2013) is an emancipatory pursuit that seeks to link education to the goals and foci of social justice disrupting inequality through critical pedagogy (Freire 2003). Critical peace education addresses the critique that peace education is imperial and impository mimicking the 'interventionism' of Western peacebuilding by foregrounding local practices and narratives into peace education (Salomon 2004; MacGinty & Richmond 2007; Golding 2017). The project of critical peace education includes conceiving of education as a space of transformation where students and teachers become change agents that recognise past and present experiences of inequity and bias and where schools become strategic sites for fostering emancipatory change. \n\nWhere Critical Peace Education is emancipatory, seeking to foster full humanity in society for everyone, yogic peace education (Standish & Joyce 2017) in concerned with transforming personal (as opposed to interpersonal, structural or societal/cultural) violence. In yogic peace education, techniques from yogic science are utilised to alter the physical, mental and spiritual instrument of humanity (the self) to address violence that comes from within. Contemporary peace education (similar to all peace education) relate to specific forms of violence (and their transformation) and similar to teaching human rights and conflict resolution in schools critical peace education and yogic peace education are complementary curricula that seek to foster positive peace and decrease violence in society.\n\nToh Swee-Hin (1997) observes that each of the various streams of peace education \"inevitably have their own dynamics and 'autonomy' in terms of theory and practice\". \"Salomon (2002) has described how the challenges, goals, and methods of peace education differ substantially between areas characterized by intractable conflict, interethnic tension, or relative tranquility\".\n\nSalomon (2002) raises the problem and its consequences:\n\"Imagine that medical practitioners would not distinguish between invasive surgery to remove malignant tumors and surgery to correct one's vision. Imagine also that while surgeries are practiced, no research and no evaluation of their differential effectiveness accompany them. The field would be considered neither very serious nor very trustworthy. Luckily enough, such a\nstate of affairs does not describe the field of medicine, but it comes pretty close to describing the field of peace education. First, too many profoundly different kinds of activities taking place in an exceedingly wide array of contexts are all lumped under the same category label of \"peace education\" as if they belong together. Second, for whatever reason, the field's scholarship in the form of theorizing, research and program evaluation badly lags behind practice… In the absence of clarity of what peace education really is, or how its different varieties relate to each other, it is unclear how experience with one variant of peace education in one region can usefully inform programs in another region.\"\nAccording to Clarke-Habibi (2005), \"A general or integrated theory of peace is needed: one that can holistically account for the intrapersonal, inter-personal, inter-group and international dynamics of peace, as well as its main principles and pre-requisites. An essential component of this integrated theory must also be the recognition that a culture of peace can only result from an authentic process of transformation, both individual and collective.\"\n\nUp-to-date news about peace education initiatives is provided by the Global Campaign for Peace Education on their website. Another source is the Culture of Peace News Network, which is dedicated to education for a culture of peace. See especially the CPNN section Where is Peace Education Taking Place?\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25382047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25382047", "title": "Peer assessment", "text": "Peer assessment\n\nPeer assessment is an educational activity in which students judge the performance of their peers and it can take different forms depending on the characteristics of its implementation, the learners and the learning context. Peer assessment can take different forms ranging from summative purposes (e.g., peer grading, peer evaluation) to formative purposes (e.g., peer feedback). Importantly, a significant effort has been performed by scholars in exploring the different characteristics of peer assessment, usually called taxonomies or constelations. The first one by Topping (1998) already included seventeen characteristics, number that has been increased and rearranged by later publications. Peer assessment has been shown to have positive effects on achievement, and though it has been claimed it could increase self-regulation the empirical evidence supporting this claim is missing at the moment. An important line of research is currently focusing on what are the interpersonal effects of peer assessment, with the latest and more comprehensive review showing that formative approaches might be more benefitial, decreasing negative interpersonal and motivational effects.\n\nThough, for a long time it has been claimed that student grade assignments can save teacher's time, there is evidence showing this might not be the case. A large study with Spanish teachers shown that they do not feel they have to used less time because the implementation of peer assessment, especially if done with formative purposes, takes a considerable amount of teaching instructional help.\n\nHaving students grade papers in class or assess their peers' oral presentations decreases the time taken for students to receive their feedback. Instead of them having to wait for feedback on their work, self- and peer-assessment allow assignments to be graded soon after completion. Students then don't have to wait until they have moved onto new material and the information is no longer fresh in their minds.\n\nTeacher's evaluation role makes the students focus more on the grades not seeking feedback. Students can learn from grading the papers or assessing the oral presentations of others. Often, teachers do not go over test answers and give students the chance to learn what they did wrong. Self and peer assessment allow teachers to help students understand the mistakes that they have made. This will improve subsequent work and allow students time to digest information and may lead to better understanding. A study by Sadler and Good found that students who self-graded their tests did better on later tests. The students could see what they had done wrong and were able correct such errors in later assignments. After peer grading, students did not necessarily achieve higher results.\n\nThrough self- and peer-assessment students are able to see mistakes in their thinking and can correct any problems in future assignments. By grading assignments, students may learn how to complete assignments more accurately and how to improve their test results.\n\nProfessors Lin-Agler, Moore, and Zabrucky conducted an experiment in which they found “that students are able to use their previous experience from preparing for and taking a test to help them build a link between their study time allocation.” Students can not only improve their ability to study for a test after participating in self- and peer- assessment but also enhance their ability to evaluate others through improved metacognitive thinking.\n\nIf self- and peer-assessment are implemented, students can come to see tests not as punishments but as useful feedback. Hal Malehorn says that by using peer evaluation, classmates can work together for “common intellectual welfare” and that it can create a “cooperative atmosphere” for students instead of one where students compete for grades.\n\nHowever, in the Supreme Court Case Owasso Independent School District v. Falvo, the school was sued following victimization of an individual after other students learned that he had received a low test score. Malehorn attempts to show what the idealized version of peer-assessment can do for classroom attitude. In practice, situations where students are victimized can result as seen in the Supreme Court Case.\n\nOne concern about self- and peer-assessment is that students may give higher grades than teachers. Teachers want to reduce grading time but not at the cost of losing accuracy.\n\nA study by Saddler and Good has shown that there is a high level of agreement between grades assigned by teachers and students as long as students are able to understand the teacher's quality requirements. They also report that teacher grading can be more accurate as a result of using self- and peer-assessment. If teachers look at how students grade themselves, then they have more information available from which to assign a more accurate grade.\n\nHowever, Saddler and Good warn that there is some disagreement. They suggest that teachers implement systems to moderate grading by students in order to catch unsatisfactory work. Another study reported that grade inflation did occur as students tended to grade themselves higher than a teacher would have. This would suggest that self- and peer-assessment are not an accurate method of grading due to divergent results.\n\nAccording to the study by Saddler and Good, students who peer grade tend to undergrade and students who are self graded tend to overgrade. However, a large majority of students do get within 5% of the teacher’s grade. Relatively few self graders undergrade and relatively few peer graders tend to overgrade.\n\nStudents need guidelines to follow before they are able to grade more open ended questions. These often come in the form of rubrics, which lay out different objectives and how much each is worth when grading. Rubrics are often used for writing assignments.\n\n\nOne area in which self- and peer-assessment is being applied is in group projects. Teachers can give projects a final grade but also need to determine what grade each individual in the group deserves. Students can grade their peers and individual grades can be based on these assessments. Nevertheless, there are problems with this grading method as if students grade each other unfairly they can skew the grades.\n\nSome students may give all of the other students very high grades which will cause their score to be lower compared to the others. This can be addressed by having students grade themselves and thus their generosity will also extend to themselves and raise their grade by the same amount. However, this does not compensate for students who grade themselves too harshly.\n\nSome students will award everybody low marks and themselves very high marks in order to bias the data. This can be countered by checking student’s grades and making sure that they are consistent with where in the group their peers graded them.\n\nIf all of the students go against one student because they feel that the individual did little work, then she or he will receive a very low grade. This is permissible if the student in question really did do very little work, but cases such as this should be monitored closely.\n\nWhile it is difficult to grade students on participation in a classroom setting because of its subjective nature, one method of grading participation is to use self- and peer-assessment. Professors Ryan, Marshall, Porter, and Jia conducted an experiment to see if using students to grade participation was effective. They found that there was a difference between a teacher's evaluation of participation and a student's. However, there was no academic significance, indicating that student’s final grades were not affected by the difference in a teacher's evaluation and a student's. They concluded that self- and peer-assessment is an effective way to grade classroom participation.\n\nThe legality of self- and peer-Assessment was challenged in the Supreme Court Case of Owasso Independent School District v. Falvo. Kristja Falvo sued the school district where her son attended school because it used peer-assessment and he was teased about a low score. The teacher's right to use self- and peer-assessment was upheld by the court.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4855446", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4855446", "title": "Protmušis", "text": "Protmušis\n\nProtmušis (literally \"Mindfight\" in Lithuanian) is a team pub quiz-type game (where the teams play against each other) that takes place in Vilnius, Lithuania. The organisers and participants of Protmušis are mainly students of various universities of Vilnius. All major universities of Vilnius are represented in Protmušis (including all the faculties of Vilnius University, some faculties of Vilnius Gediminas Technical University, Mykolas Romeris University, Vilnius Academy of Fine Arts, ISM University of Management and Economics and the Vilnius Pedagogical University) as well as the Kaunas University of Technology and Vytautas Magnus University of Kaunas and the Stockholm School of Economics in Riga; in addition, some people who had already graduated and those who are not yet studying in universities take or were taking part in the competition as well. Protmušis was organized for the first time in 1997. About 250 people (38 teams) have chosen to participate in the twelfth season of Protmušis, which started in March 2009.\n\nTraditionally in every match of Protmušis two teams play against each other. At any given moment no less than three and not more than five people could play for a single team (although it is permitted to register up to eight team members in which case different team members could play at different matches). During the match ten pre-prepared questions are shown on the large screen in the front of the hall (the questions are of such a style that in order to answer them one needs both general knowledge and the ability to think logically). After the host reads each question, the one-minute timer is started. During that one minute players are permitted to discuss the possible answers with the fellow members of their team and to think. Once one of the teams believes that it already knows the correct answer, the team presses a button to stop the timer and calls out the answer. If the host and/or the referee accepts the answer as correct, the full answer is shown on the screen and the team is awarded a point. If not, the one-minute timer is restarted and the other team is permitted to continue searching for the answer and to tell their attempt to answer the question. The team that has more points after all ten questions are read is declared the winner. If both teams have an equal number of points at that time, the match ends in a draw. A draw is only possible in the regular season; if such a situation occurs during the playoffs, an overtime is played: additional questions are presented to the teams until the first correct answer is given - at that point the team which answered correctly is declared to be the winner.\nIn the semi-finals 12 questions are presented in each game rather than 10. In the finals there are 15 questions.\n\nIn various unofficial matches of Protmušis the rules may differ slightly.\n\nEvery year two championships (seasons) are held, each one lasting for approximately four months (one in the winter and spring and one in the autumn and winter; the seasons are separated by the winter and summer holidays and the student exams).\n\nEach season consists of the regular season and the playoffs. In the regular season all the participating teams are put into groups. All teams in the same group has to play against each other. During these games, the winning team is given two points, and both teams are given one point each for a draw. The number of groups and the number of teams in each group as well as the number of teams advancing to playoffs depend on how many teams participate in Protmušis that particular season, therefore, the system varies somewhat from season to season. In some seasons some matches are played by three teams rather than two.\nIn addition to the main championship, various smaller games are being held: when neither of the playing teams answer the question correctly the spectators of Protmušis are permitted to give a try (the spectators who answered the most questions are being listed in the official website), the best questions are voted for and the spectators and players who had created the most questions are named, all the players and spectators are asked additional questions where it is possible to win special prizes.\n\nAt present Protmušis is held each Thursday at 18:30 (Vilnius time) in the great hall of the Faculty of the Natural Sciences of Vilnius University. Anybody (including non-players and non-students) is permitted to come and watch the games, try their luck in answering the questions that teams are unable to answer or to support the teams of their faculty or institute. Each Wednesday four matches are played (whole event of four matches lasts for approximately two hours). All the questions and answers during the game are presented in the Lithuanian language.\n\nThe questions that are presented in the Protmušis games requires both general knowledge and the ability to think logically. They might be related to various fields (such as history, geography, arts, physics, biology and so on), but may not require a very specific knowledge in those fields. Usually, the questions are about more or less minor topics that are not known to most people, but after thinking logically it is possible to guess the answer based on one's general knowledge about various similar more important subjects. The goal of a good Protmušis question is to make it so that nobody would answer it immediately, but the team members would need to discuss among themselves and only after each member said his/her suggestions or thoughts regarding the question it would be possible to find the best answer. The number of questions that are answered correctly by the teams per each match varies greatly (from 10% when the weaker teams play to 90% when the major teams face each other), but usually the teams are able to find the correct answer for approximately 50%-60% of the questions.\n\nEach question, as is shown on the screen, consists of two slides, one for question and one for answer. The question slide usually includes introduction that is meant both to help find out the answer to the question and to describe the subject more, and the question itself. The answer slide includes a detailed explanation of the answer. The goal of Protmušis is not only to entertain but to expand the knowledge of the players and the spectators as well, therefore, the questions that are related to interesting subjects that are not widely known to the general public, but are worth to be known, are especially valued. Both the question slide and the answer slide are usually illustrated with pictures related to the subject.\n\nEverybody (both players and spectators) is permitted to send in the questions for Protmušis (the questions are not presented during the matches of the team of the player who had created the question).\n\nProtmušis was organised for the first time in 1997. The game is based on 1989th-year soviet game \"Brain ring\" (). It is organized regularly, two seasons a year, since 2003. Over the time Protmušis have expanded and improved greatly. The number of participating teams increased and so did the number of universities and faculties represented. The technology have improved (for example, special buttons are now used by the teams to express their will to attempt answer the question; prior to the fifth season lamps were used instead and in the 1997 it was simple hand raising), the number of organisers and the question authors have increased. Protmušis found many sponsors (such as Vaga, one of the biggest publishing houses in Lithuania) and therefore prizes are given now. The official internet website and forums were established and had improved, Protmušis was featured many times in the student press. In the autumn of 2006, Protmušis was also featured in the Sostinė supplement of the leading Lithuanian newspaper Lietuvos Rytas and on the Lithuanian national television (LRT). In the spring of 2006 the cooperation of Protmušis and the International Quizzing Association started and the Lithuanian branch of the World Quizzing Championships 2006 was organised using the organisational basis of Protmušis. In December 2006 during the European Quizzing Championships in Paris, a demonstration of Protmušis was given, introducing the gameplay to other European nations. In 2008 an article on Protmušis was published in daily newspaper 15 min.\n\n\nIn addition to the official championships, unofficial matches and mini-tournaments have been held. These included demonstration games and special games (that have been organised as a part of some bigger scientific, educational or entertainment events). The rules and questions might differ slightly during unofficial matches (for example, in matches that are organised as a part of some event the questions might all be set in accordance to the topic of the event).\n\nEach team may consist of five to eight players (no more than five players could play for the team in a match at any given time however). Some teams are participating for many years (there are players who have participated in every season since 1997). Each season at least several new teams registers for participation. Many teams represent some particular faculty or institute, while other teams are mixed.\n\n"}
{"id": "54050278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54050278", "title": "Qingdao Declaration", "text": "Qingdao Declaration\n\nThe Qingdao Declaration is a document that provides UN Member States with policy recommendations for harnessing the power of ICT to address current educational challenges, and to ensure equitable quality education and lifelong opportunities for all. It was the key output of the International Conference on ICT and Post-2015 Education, which took place 23–25 May 2015 in Qingdao, People's Republic of China. The conference was organized by UNESCO, the Ministry of Education of the People’s Republic of China and the Chinese National Commission for UNESCO.\n\nThe Qingdao Declaration was endorsed by Ministers of Education, high-level government officials, representatives of United Nations (UN) agencies, civil society organizations, teacher organizations, as well as other development partners, members of academia, and the private sector.\n\nBoth the Incheon and Qingdao Declarations say that Information and communication technologies (ICTs) must be harnessed to strengthen education systems, knowledge dissemination, information access, quality and effective learning, and more effective service provision.The Qingdao Declaration contains statements on how to unleash the full potential of ICT in terms of: (1) access and inclusion in education; (2) open educational resources and open solutions; (3) quality learning; (4) lifelong learning pathways; (5) online learning innovations; (6) quality assurance and recognition of online learning; (7) monitoring and evaluation; (8) accountability and partnership; and (9) international cooperation.\n\n"}
{"id": "35749603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35749603", "title": "Rape Culture (film)", "text": "Rape Culture (film)\n\nRape Culture is a 1975 film by Cambridge Documentary Films, produced by Margaret Lazarus and Renner Wunderlich. It was updated in 1983.\n\nIn January 1975, Judy Norsigan outlined how the film illustrated \"rape culture\", through the voices of men and women, including rapists, victims, prisoners, rape crisis workers, and the media.\n\nThe film featured prisoners of Lorton Reformatory, Virginia, \"Prisoners Against Rape Inc\" (PAR), a not-for-profit organization founded by William Fuller and Larry Cannon on September 9, 1973, in conjunction with women fighting rape. The prison administration \"approved\" self-help status.\n\nPAR was set up after Fuller wrote to the DC Rape Crisis Center in 1973 and asked for assistance. The DC Rape Crisis Center had opened in 1972 in response to the high incidence of rape against women of color. Fuller acknowledged his history of rape, murder, and prison rape. He wanted to stop being a rapist. This resulted in a cooperative effort.\n\nThe women from the DC Rape Crisis Center who initiated work with PAR were Loretta Ross, Yulanda Ward and Nkenge Toure. Ross has said that whilst the relationship was seen initially as controversial, it was one of the more interesting aspects of her work at the DC Rape Crisis Center in the 1970s and 80s. In an interview with Joyce Follet, Ross observed that in the work of the DC Rape Crisis center they could bandage up women all they wanted to, but if they did not stop rape what was the point? Maragaret lazarus, the film's producer, said of this relationship that the work was \"groundbreaking\".\n\nThe film featured Mary Daly, radical feminist philosopher, academic, and theologian, and Author and Artist Emily Culpepper. They discussed rapism as an intellectual concept, and phallocentric morality and \"its 'unholy trinity of rape, genocide and war.'\".\n\nDoreen McDowell, a rape victim, talked of her experience, how sex fantasies play a part in rape, and how male identified behavior in women maintained a \"state of siege\". Powerful statistical evidence, refuting rape myths, law enforcement and legislative views of rape were presented by Joanna Morris, author and statistical coordinator for rape crisis centers across the USA.\n\nThe film also looked closely at the mass media, how filmmakers, songwriters, writers and magazines perpetuated the attitudes to rape, which normalized it and even perpetuated rape myths and stereotypical behavior around rape. \"Gone with the Wind\", Alfred Hitchcock's film \"Frenzy\", and \"Hustler\" magazine were some of the media used to illustrate the normalization of rape.\n\nIn describing the film, the producers say that it attempts to give real and accurate limits to rape and expand society's narrow and sexist concepts of rape.\n\nLazarus has said of the film's title that it came from long discussion about what the film was trying to illustrate. She has also expressed the view that the film is the first time \"rape culture\" was used in its widest accepted sense. A mention of the film in the Congressional Record in January 1978 is the first known occurrence of the term 'rape culture' in national-level American politics.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "105803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=105803", "title": "Remote control", "text": "Remote control\n\nIn electronics, a remote control is a component of an electronic device used to operate the device from a distance, usually wirelessly. For example, in consumer electronics, a remote control can be used to operate devices such as a television set, DVD player, or other home appliance, from a short distance. A remote control is primarily a convenience feature for the user, and can allow operation of devices that are out of convenient reach for direct operation of controls. In some cases, remote controls allow a person to operate a device that they otherwise would not be able to reach, as when a garage door opener is triggered from outside or when a Digital Light Processing projector that is mounted on a high ceiling is controlled by a person from the floor level.\n\nEarly television remote controls (1956–1977) used ultrasonic tones. Present-day remote controls are commonly consumer infrared devices which send digitally-coded pulses of infrared radiation to control functions such as power, volume, channels, playback, track change, heat, fan speed, or other features varying from device to device. Remote controls for these devices are usually small wireless handheld objects with an array of buttons for adjusting various settings such as television channel, track number, and volume. For many devices, the remote control contains all the function controls while the controlled device itself has only a handful of essential primary controls. The remote control code, and thus the required remote control device, is usually specific to a product line, but there are universal remotes, which emulate the remote control made for most major brand devices.\n\nRemote control has continually evolved and advanced in the 2000s to include Bluetooth connectivity, motion sensor-enabled capabilities and voice control.\n\nIn 1894, the first example of wirelessly controlling at a distance was during a demonstration by the British physicist Oliver Lodge, in which he made use of a Branly's coherer to make a mirror galvanometer move a beam of light when an electromagnetic wave was artificially generated. This was further refined by radio innovators Guglielmo Marconi and William Preece, at a demonstration that took place on December 12, 1896, at Toynbee Hall in London, in which they made a bell ring by pushing a button in a box that was not connected by any wires. In 1898 Nikola Tesla filed his patent, , named \"Method of an Apparatus for Controlling Mechanism of Moving Vehicle or Vehicles\", which he publicly demonstrated by radio-controlling a boat during an electrical exhibition at Madison Square Garden. Tesla called his boat a \"teleautomaton\".\nIn 1903, Leonardo Torres Quevedo presented the \"Telekino\" at the Paris Academy of Science, accompanied by a brief, and making an experimental demonstration. At the same time, he obtained a patent in France, Spain, Great Britain, and the United States. The \"Telekino\" consisted of a robot that executed commands transmitted by electromagnetic waves. With the Telekino, Torres-Quevedo laid down modern wireless remote-control operation principles and was a pioneer in the field of remote control. In 1906, in the presence of the king and before a great crowd, Torres successfully demonstrated the invention in the port of Bilbao, guiding a boat from the shore. Later, he would try to apply the \"Telekino\" to projectiles and torpedoes but had to abandon the project for lack of financing. The first remote-controlled model airplane flew in 1932, and the use of remote control technology for military purposes was worked intensively during the Second World War, one result of this being the German Wasserfall missile.\n\nBy the late 1930s, several radio manufacturers offered remote controls for some of their higher-end models. Most of these were connected to the set being controlled by wires, but the Philco Mystery Control (1939) was a battery-operated low-frequency radio transmitter, thus making it the first wireless remote control for a consumer electronics device. Using pulse-count modulation, this also was the first digital wireless remote control.\n\nThe first remote intended to control a television was developed by Zenith Radio Corporation in 1950. The remote, called \"Lazy Bones\", was connected to the television by a wire. A wireless remote control, the \"Flashmatic\", was developed in 1955 by Eugene Polley. It worked by shining a beam of light onto one of four photoelectric cells, but the cell did not distinguish between light from the remote and light from other sources. The Flashmatic also had to be pointed very precisely at one of the sensors in order to work.\nIn 1956, Robert Adler developed \"Zenith Space Command\", a wireless remote. It was mechanical and used ultrasound to change the channel and volume. When the user pushed a button on the remote control, it struck a bar and clicked, hence they were commonly called a \"clicker\", but it sounded like a \"clink\" and the mechanics were similar to a pluck. Each of the four bars emitted a different fundamental frequency with ultrasonic harmonics, and circuits in the television detected these sounds and interpreted them as channel-up, channel-down, sound-on/off, and power-on/off. Later, the rapid decrease in price of transistors made possible cheaper electronic remotes that contained a piezoelectric crystal that was fed by an oscillating electric current at a frequency near or above the upper threshold of human hearing, though still audible to dogs. The receiver contained a microphone attached to a circuit that was tuned to the same frequency. Some problems with this method were that the receiver could be triggered accidentally by naturally occurring noises or deliberately by metal against glass, for example, and some people could hear the lower ultrasonic harmonics.\nThe impetus for a more complex type of television remote control came in 1973, with the development of the Ceefax teletext service by the BBC. Most commercial remote controls at that time had a limited number of functions, sometimes as few as three: next channel, previous channel, and volume/off. This type of control did not meet the needs of Teletext sets, where pages were identified with three-digit numbers. A remote control to select Teletext pages would need buttons for each numeral from zero to nine, as well as other control functions, such as switching from text to picture, and the normal television controls of volume, channel, brightness, color intensity, etc. Early Teletext sets used wired remote controls to select pages, but the continuous use of the remote control required for Teletext quickly indicated the need for a wireless device. So BBC engineers began talks with one or two television manufacturers, which led to early prototypes in around 1977–1978 that could control many more functions. ITT was one of the companies and later gave its name to the ITT protocol of infrared communication.\nIn 1980, the most popular remote control was the \"Starcom Cable TV Converter\" (from Jerrold Electronics, a division of General Instrument) which used 40-kHz sound to change channels. Then, a Canadian company, Viewstar, Inc., was formed by engineer Paul Hrivnak and started producing a cable TV converter with an infrared remote control. The product was sold through Philips for approximately $190 CAD. The Viewstar converter was an immediate success, the millionth converter being sold on March 21, 1985, with 1.6 million sold by 1989.\n\nThe Blab-off was a wired remote control created in 1952 that turned a TV's sound on or off so that viewers could avoid hearing commercials. In the 1980s Steve Wozniak of Apple started a company named CL 9. The purpose of this company was to create a remote control that could operate multiple electronic devices. The CORE unit (Controller Of Remote Equipment) was introduced in the fall of 1987. The advantage to this remote controller was that it could \"learn\" remote signals from different devices. It had the ability to perform specific or multiple functions at various times with its built-in clock. It was the first remote control that could be linked to a computer and loaded with updated software code as needed. The CORE unit never made a huge impact on the market. It was much too cumbersome for the average user to program, but it received rave reviews from those who could. These obstacles eventually led to the demise of CL 9, but two of its employees continued the business under the name Celadon. This was one of the first computer-controlled learning remote controls on the market.\n\nIn the 1990s, cars were increasingly sold with electronic remote control door locks. These remotes transmit a signal to the car which locks or unlocks the door locks or unlocks the trunk. An aftermarket device sold in some countries is the remote starter. This enables a car owner to remotely start their car. This feature is most associated with countries with winter climates, where users may wish to run the car for several minutes before they intend to use it, so that the car heater and defrost systems can remove ice and snow from the windows.\n\nBy the early 2000s, the number of consumer electronic devices in most homes greatly increased, along with the number of remotes to control those devices. According to the Consumer Electronics Association, an average US home has four remotes. To operate a home theater as many as five or six remotes may be required, including one for cable or satellite receiver, VCR or digital video recorder (DVR/PVR), DVD player, TV and audio amplifier. Several of these remotes may need to be used sequentially for some programs or services to work properly. However, as there are no accepted interface guidelines, the process is increasingly cumbersome. One solution used to reduce the number of remotes that have to be used is the universal remote, a remote control which is programmed with the operation codes for most major brands of TVs, DVD players, etc. In the early 2010s, many smartphone manufacturers began incorporating infrared emitters into their devices, thereby enabling their use as universal remotes via an included or downloadable app.\n\nThe main technology used in home remote controls is infrared (IR) light. The signal between a remote control handset and the device it controls consists of pulses of infrared light, which is invisible to the human eye, but can be seen through a digital camera, video camera or a phone camera. The transmitter in the remote control handset sends out a stream of pulses of infrared light when the user presses a button on the handset. A transmitter is often a light emitting diode (LED) which is built into the pointing end of the remote control handset. The infrared light pulses form a pattern unique to that button. The receiver in the device recognizes the pattern and causes the device to respond accordingly.\n\nMost remote controls for electronic appliances use a near infrared diode to emit a beam of light that reaches the device. A 940 nm wavelength LED is typical. This infrared light is invisible to the human eye, but picked up by sensors on the receiving device. Video cameras see the diode as if it produces visible purple light. With a single channel (single-function, one-button) remote control the presence of a carrier signal can be used to trigger a function. For multi-channel (normal multi-function) remote controls more sophisticated procedures are necessary: one consists of modulating the carrier with signals of different frequency. After the receiver demodulates the received signal, it applies the appropriate frequency filters to separate the respective signals. One can often hear the signals being modulated on the infrared carrier by operating a remote control in very close proximity to an AM radio not tuned to a station. Today, IR remote controls almost always use a pulse width modulated code, encoded and decoded by digital computer: a command from a remote control consists of a short train of pulses of carrier-present and carrier-not-present of varying widths.\n\nDifferent manufacturers of infrared remote controls use different protocols to transmit the infrared commands. The RC-5 protocol that has its origins within Philips, uses, for instance, a total of 14 bits for each button press. The bit pattern is modulated onto a carrier frequency that, again, can be different for different manufacturers and standards, in the case of RC-5, the carrier is 36 kHz. Other consumer infrared protocols include the various versions of SIRCS used by Sony, the RC-6 from Philips, the Ruwido R-Step, and the NEC TC101 protocol.\n\nSince infrared (IR) remote controls use light, they require line of sight to operate the destination device. The signal can, however, be reflected by mirrors, just like any other light source. If operation is required where no line of sight is possible, for instance when controlling equipment in another room or installed in a cabinet, many brands of IR extenders are available for this on the market. Most of these have an IR receiver, picking up the IR signal and relaying it via radio waves to the remote part, which has an IR transmitter mimicking the original IR control. Infrared receivers also tend to have a more or less limited operating angle, which mainly depends on the optical characteristics of the phototransistor. However, it's easy to increase the operating angle using a matte transparent object in front of the receiver.\n\nRadio remote control (RF remote control) is used to control distant objects using a variety of radio signals transmitted by the remote control device. As a complementary method to infrared remote controls, the radio remote control is used with electric garage door or gate openers, automatic barrier systems, burglar alarms and industrial automation systems. Standards used for RF remotes are: Bluetooth AVRCP, ZigBee (RF4CE), Z-Wave. Most remote controls use their own coding, transmitting from 8 to 100 or more pulses, fixed or Rolling code, using OOK or FSK modulation. Also, transmitters or receivers can be \"universal\", meaning they are able to work with many different codings. In this case, the transmitter is normally called a \"universal remote control duplicator\" because it is able to copy existing remote controls, while the receiver is called a \"universal receiver\" because it works with almost any remote control in the market.\n\nA radio remote control system commonly has two parts: transmit and receive. The transmitter part is divided into two parts, the RF remote control and the transmitter module. This allows the transmitter module to be used as a component in a larger application. The transmitter module is small, but users must have detailed knowledge to use it; combined with the RF remote control it is much simpler to use.\n\nThe receiver is generally one of two types: a super-regenerative receiver or a superheterodyne. The super-regenerative receiver works like that of an intermittent oscillation detection circuit. The superheterodyne works like the one in a radio receiver. The superheterodyne receiver is used because of its stability, high sensitivity and it has relatively good anti-interference ability, a small package and lower price.\n\nRemote control is used for controlling substations, pump storage power stations and HVDC-plants. For these systems often PLC-systems working in the longwave range are used.\n\nGarage and gate remote control are very common, especially in some countries such as the US, Australia, and the UK, where garage doors, gates and barriers are widely used. Such a remote is very simple by design, usually only one button, and some with more buttons to control several gates from one control. Such remotes can be divided into two categories by the encoder type used: fixed code and rolling code. If you find dip-switches in the remote, it is likely to be fixed code, an older technology which was widely used. However, fixed code has been criticized for its (lack of) security, thus rolling code has been more and more widely used in later installations.\n\nRemote controls in military usage employ jamming and countermeasures against jamming. Jammers are used to disable or sabotage the enemy's use of remote controls. The distances for military remote controls also tend to be much longer, up to intercontinental distance satellite linked remote controls used by the U.S. for their unmanned airplanes (drones) in Afghanistan, Iraq and Pakistan. Remote controls are used by insurgents in Iraq and Afghanistan to attack coalition and government troops with roadside improvised explosive devices, and terrorists in Iraq are reported in the media to use modified TV remote controls to detonate bombs.\n\nIn the winter of 1970, the Soviet Union explored the surface of the moon with the lunar vehicle Lunokhod 1, the first roving remote-controlled robot to land on another celestial body. Remote control technology is also used in space travel, for instance the Soviet Lunokhod vehicles were remote-controlled from the ground. Many space exploration rovers can be remotely controlled, though vast distance to a vehicle results in a long time delay between transmission and receipt of a command.\n\nExisting infrared remote controls can be used to control PC applications. Any application that supports shortcut keys can be controlled via IR remote controls from other home devices (TV, VCR, AC). This is widely used with multimedia applications for PC based home theatre systems. For this to work, one needs a device that decodes IR remote control data signals and a PC application that communicates to this device connected to PC. Connection can be made via serial port, USB port or motherboard IrDA connector. Such devices are commercially available but can be homemade using low-cost micro controllers. LIRC (Linux IR Remote control) and WinLIRC (for Windows) are software packages developed for the purpose of controlling PC using TV remote and can be also used for homebrew remote with lesser modification.\n\nRemote controls are used in photography, in particular to take long-exposure shots. Many action cameras such as the GoPros as well as standard DSLRs including Sony's Alpha series incorporate Wi-Fi based remote control systems. These can often be accessed and even controlled via cell-phones and other mobile devices.\n\nRemotely operated torpedoes were demonstrated in the late 19th century in the form of several types of remotely controlled torpedoes. The early 1870s saw remotely controlled torpedoes by John Ericsson (pneumatic), John Louis Lay (electric wire guided), and Victor von Scheliha (electric wire guided).\n\nThe Brennan torpedo, invented by Louis Brennan in 1877 was powered by two contra-rotating propellers that were spun by rapidly pulling out wires from drums wound inside the torpedo. Differential speed on the wires connected to the shore station allowed the torpedo to be guided to its target, making it \"the world's first \"practical\" guided missile\". In 1898 Nikola Tesla publicly demonstrated a \"wireless\" radio-controlled torpedo that he hoped to sell to the U.S. Navy.\n\nArchibald Low was known as the \"father of radio guidance systems\" for his pioneering work on guided rockets and planes during the First World War. In 1917, he demonstrated a remote controlled aircraft to the Royal Flying Corps and in the same year built the first wire-guided rocket.\n\nThe military developed several early remote control vehicles. In World War I, the Imperial German Navy employed FL-boats (Fernlenkboote) against coastal shipping. These were driven by internal combustion engines, and controlled remotely from a shore station through several miles of wire wound on a spool on the boat. An aircraft was used to signal directions to the shore station. EMBs carried a high explosive charge in the bow and traveled at speeds of thirty knots. The Soviet Red Army used remotely controlled teletanks during the 1930s in the Winter War against Finland and the early stages of World War II. A teletank is controlled by radio from a control tank at a distance of 500 to 1,500 meters, the two constituting a \"telemechanical group\". The Red Army fielded at least two teletank battalions at the beginning of the Great Patriotic War. There were also remotely controlled cutters and experimental remotely controlled planes in the Red Army.\n\nVideo game consoles had not used wireless controllers until recently, mainly because of the difficulty involved in playing the game while keeping the infrared transmitter pointed at the console. Early wireless controllers were cumbersome and when powered on alkaline batteries, lasted only a few hours before they needed replacement. Some wireless controllers were produced by third parties, in most cases using a radio link instead of infrared. Even these were very inconsistent, and in some cases, had transmission delays, making them virtually useless. Some examples include the Double Player for NES, the Master System Remote Control System and the Wireless Dual Shot for the PlayStation.\n\nThe first official wireless game controller made by a first party manufacturer was the CX-42 for Atari 2600. The Philips CD-i 400 series also came with a remote control, the WaveBird was also produced for the GameCube. In the seventh generation of gaming consoles, wireless controllers became standard. Some wireless controllers, such as those of the PlayStation 3 and Wii, use Bluetooth. Others, like the Xbox 360, use proprietary wireless protocols.\n\nTo be turned on by a wireless remote, the controlled appliance must always be partly on, consuming standby power.\n\nHand-gesture recognition has been researched as an alternative to remote controls for television sets.\n\n"}
{"id": "21585542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21585542", "title": "Returned Treasures Program", "text": "Returned Treasures Program\n\nThe Returned Treasures Program of the INAH Directorate of Global Patrimony or Dirección de Patrimonio Mundial operates under the Government of Mexico’s INAH, the National Institute of Anthropology and History (Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia) and INAH’s National Museum of Anthropology (Museo Nacional de Antropología). See, INAH-MNA Journal of Latin American Anthropology and History at J L Am Anthro History 1989 Apr 15; 32-35.\n\nAs part of the INAH Dirección de Patrimonio Mundial , the Returned Treasures Program was established January 1989 as an INAH cultural trust () created by an international group of philanthropists, curators, and art historians and patrons for the purpose of finding and purchasing Latin American cultural property located in foreign countries other than the Latin American country of origin. The trust oversees the repatriation or rendition of such works back to Mexico and other Latin countries of origin for the cataloging, preserving, protecting, and studying of important cultural property. J L Am Anthro History 1989 Apr 15; 39-42.\n\nThe primary purpose of the program and trust is to return important and priceless Latin American cultural property back to Mexico and other Latin America countries of origin. The works range from (1) pre-Columbian pottery and stone works of Meso-American (Mexico and Central America) and other cultures, including the South American Inca and pre-Inca cultures of Peru, Ecuador, Chile, and Bolivia to (2) colonial cultural works produced during and after the Spanish Conquest (including codex and other early printed works) to (3) Independence, Porfiriato, and Revolutionary Eras from 1810 to 1920 to (4) modern cultural property produced from 1920 to 1968 (including art by Saturnino Herran, Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera, David Alfaro Siqueiros, José Clemente Orozco, and Rufino Tamayo). J L Am Anthro History 1989 Apr 15; 39-42.\n\nThe INAH Directorate of Global Patrimony or Dirección de Patrimonio Mundial works with foreign art patrons and philanthropists to fund the return of important cultural works to Mexico and other Latin American countries of origin. Initially, the Returned Treasures Program of the INAH Directorate of Global Patrimony or Dirección de Patrimonio Mundial was created to return specific works selected by the Directorate as important and in need of foreign funding Support. Accordingly, the Directorate first relied on funding from Hispanic art patrons in California and Texas, including Texas attorney Ernest M. Edsel (of Malpaso Company, a Wall Street oil & gas investment fund), who donated important works (Diego Rivera lithographs; correspondence of Sor Juana Ines; and, pre-Columbian idols, pottery, and stone works) along with an initial $4 million gift from Malpaso Oil. J L Am Anthro History 1989 Apr 15; 39 and \"Entrevista con El Inversionista Ernest Edsel\", Agenda Cultural del INAH (Noviembre 1989) (official INAH monthly magazine). Ernest Edsel also raised substantial funds from fellow Texas investors J. Richard Miller, a Texas financier (founder of Miller Martin, an investment bank and financial [factoring] firm) and Louis E.S. de Santamaria, a venture capitalist and former Revlon and Johnson & Johnson senior executive (co-founder of SPE Ventures, affiliated with First Security SBIC, now part of Wells Fargo). Other donors and contributors included Paul Bilzerian (founder of Bicoastal Financial Corporation) and, Sir James Goldsmith (major Mexican landowner). J L Am Anthro History 1989 Apr 15; 39-42; and see, INAH Press Release (December 12, 1988).\n\nFrom 1998 to 2008, the Returned Treasures Program returned major cultural properties back to their countries of origin, as follows: five stelae of the classic Maya kingdom of Copán, from French and Swiss private collectors to Mexico; one frozen high altitude Inca mummy with funerary articles, from Spanish private collector to Peru; six \"tumis\", ceremonial knives, of pre-Inca Sican culture, from Canadian private collector to Peru; two Aztec codices, from U.S. private collector to Mexico; correspondence, forty-five sketches, and five small oil studies of José María Velasco, from British private collector to Mexico; correspondence and seven oils of Geraldo Murillo, from Japanese private collector to Mexico; and, correspondence and nineteen sketches of Juan O'Gorman. J L Am Anthro History 2008 Sept 15; 76-142.\n\nThe Returned Treasures Program helps prevent the destruction of a country's cultural heritage. And, the program's restitution efforts helps solve the theft of important cultural property that arises from the illicit trade of antiquities.\n\nA partial list of the important cultural property acquired by the Returned Treasures Program and rendered back to Mexico and other Latin American countries of origin can be found at an online supplement weblog to the Journal of the Mexico National Museum of Anthropology (Museo Nacional de Antropología) and INAH, the National Institute of Anthropology and History (Instituto Nacional de Antropologia e Historia).\n\nThe Journal (also known as the INAH-MNA Journal of Latin American Anthropology and History) is published twice a year by the Council for Latin American Anthropology and History, a section of the Latin American Anthropological and Historical Association.\n\nThe Journal publishes articles, commentary, review articles, exhibition and book reviews, and research notes relevant to museum anthropology and the study of material culture. The Journal also publishes art catalogues for selected exhibitions.\n\nThe Journal is funded by an endowment from an INAH-MNA cultural trust (fideicomiso) established in 1989 by an international group of philanthropists, art historians, and curators for the purpose of finding and purchasing Latin American cultural property located in foreign countries other than the Latin American country of origin. The trust oversees the repatriation or rendition of such works back to Mexico and other Latin countries of origin for the cataloging, preserving, protecting, and studying of important cultural property.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8725008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8725008", "title": "Rhode Island Federation of Teachers and Health Professionals", "text": "Rhode Island Federation of Teachers and Health Professionals\n\nThe Rhode Island Federation of Teachers and Health Professionals (RIFTHP) is a statewide federation labor unions in the state of Rhode Island in the United States. The federation's local unions represent teachers and other educational workers, state and municipal employees, health care workers in the public and private sector, and higher education faculty and workers. It is an affiliate of the American Federation of Teachers (AFT) and the AFL-CIO.\n\nIn 2013, the federation's president was Francis J. Flynn.\n\nThe Rhode Island Federation of Teachers was founded as the Rhode Island Branch, American Federation of Teachers, on March 27, 1947. The original unions making up the federation were the Warwick Teachers' Union, the North Providence Federation of Teachers, the Pawtucket Teachers' Alliance, the Woonsocket Teachers' Guild, and the Providence Teachers' Alliance. Four years after its formation, the Pawtucket Teachers' Alliance went out on strike—one of a handful of local unions to disobey a national AFT policy banning strikes by teachers. The federation changed its name to the Rhode Island Federation of Teachers in 1958. The Pawtucket strike ended in a settlement favorable to the union, and a rudimentary contract—one of the first teacher contracts in the United States. Another strike in Pawtucket in 1964 also ended in a contract, this one personally negotiated by Governor John Chafee. This collective bargaining experience helped pave the way for legalization of teacher unionism in Rhode Island two years later.\n\nPublic school teachers in Rhode Island were given the legal right to bargain collectively over \"...hours, salary, working conditions, and other terms of professional employment\" in May 1966 (P.L. 1966, Chapter 146). Rhode Island law also allows payment of unemployment benefits to public school workers if they struck for more than eight weeks.\n\nEdward J. McElroy was president of RIFTHP from 1969 to 1992. He was elected Secretary-Treasurer of the AFT in 1992, and President in 2004 (he retired in 2008).\n\nIn 1971, David Selden, then a national representative with the AFT, attempted to convince the leaders of RIFTHP to join with the state federations in Connecticut and New York to fund and operate an organizing project, but the RIFTHP leaders rejected the idea.\n\nIn the early 1970s, RIFTHP and the NEA statewide affiliate in Rhode Island considered merging, but did not do so. During the same years, RIFTHP was active in organizing higher education faculty as well. When the AFT and the National Education Association signed a tentative merger agreement in 1998, RIFTHP leaders refused to immediately commit to a state-level merger (but supported the national effort).\n\nRIFTHP began organizing nurses in the late 1970s and early 1980s. Its most significant effort in this area came when it organized more than 1,000 registered nurses at Rhode Island Hospital in August 1993. But in 1998, more than 3,500 health care workers belonging to RIFTHP disaffiliated in a dispute over how much money should be spent on organizing new members. Although RIFTHP and the AFT disputed the election results and sued former staff who went to work for the new union (the United Nurses and Allied Professionals), the AFT lost these challenges.\n\nThe Rhode Island Federation of Teachers and Health Professionals is considered one of the most active political groups in the state of Rhode Island. It sued to oppose the shut-down of Rhode Island state government during a budget crisis in 1991, fought to keep full-time union leaders (who were former public employees) in the state pension system, worked to enact strong constraints on charter schools in the state's charter school law (the resulting law is one of the most restrictive in the nation as of 2004), supported stronger and clearer curriculum standards, sued to stop the state from penalizing retired public employees who were enrolled in more expensive health care plans, opposed binding arbitration for teacher union contracts, opposed merit pay, fought reductions in retiree pensions, and sought to limit the role of school-wide committees in establishing teacher assignments, class sizes and layoff rules.\n\nA significant network of unionized teachers interested in applying new union structures and models to creating high-quality schools, part of the Teacher Union Reform Network (TURN), is also active within RIFTHP. There have been some media reports that this network has had an influence on RIFTHP, and that the state federation is more willing to embrace some union and school reform efforts. In 2006, RIFTHP and the NEA affiliate in Rhode Island issued a joint report which focused on poverty and its many negative effects on children (such a malnutrition, unstable or violent home situations, lack of access to books and educational items like crayons or paper, and little access to high-quality early childhood programs) as key issues in the school reform effort. The report dismissed criticism that collective bargaining agreements stymied reform, and pressed for higher spending on early-childhood programs, reductions in class size, and improving teacher training programs. In 2009, the state federation began a push to have local school boards adopt much more rigorous teacher evaluation standards as well as stronger mentoring program. The state of Rhode Island approved the plan for adoption by local school boards, and RIFTHP won a $200,000 national competitive grant to help fund the first four programs (to be implemented in Central Falls, Pawtucket, Providence, and Woonsocket).\n\nRIFTHP issues two publications, \"Smith Hill Report\" and \"The Federationalist\". The \"Smith Hill Report\" is published weekly while the Rhode Island General Assembly is in session. \"The Federationist\" is published quarterly. Both are available on RIFTHP's Web site.\n\n"}
{"id": "1813886", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1813886", "title": "Rotary Youth Exchange", "text": "Rotary Youth Exchange\n\nRotary Youth Exchange (RYE) is a Rotary International student exchange program for students in secondary school. Since 1929, Rotary International has sent young people around the globe to experience new cultures. Currently, about 9,000 students are sponsored by Rotary clubs every year. Typically, students are sent to another country for a year-long stay, generally living with multiple host families during the year and being expected to perform daily tasks within the household as well as attend school in the host country. Short term exchange programs are also quite common. These typically involve direct student exchanges between two families arranged through Rotary to coincide with major school holiday periods.\n\nThe Rotary Club of Copenhagen, Denmark initiated the first Rotary exchange in 1927, and the Rotary Club of Nice, France followed suit soon after in 1929. Although exchanges today usually last ten months, the first exchanges took place during school vacations for only a couple of weeks. The year-long Rotary Youth Exchange program was created in 1958 in Lake Placid at a Rotary Governors assembly. Here, many rules and procedures were established that still exist today. The first year-long exchange conducted by Rotary under this new framework involved a student leaving from Scottsbluff, Nebraska to live in Myrtleford, Australia for 10 months, and two Australians from Myrtleford arriving in Grand Lake, Colorado. In the following years more and more countries became involved in the program. In 1962 the first involving Japan and Germany were arranged after tense relations between them and other Rotary International Clubs following World War II. Since its conception 80 years ago, the Rotary Youth Exchange program has expanded rapidly to exchange 9,000 students annually between 80 countries.\nThrough the Rotary Youth Exchange, Rotary International hopes to create a more interconnected and understanding world. One of Rotary's primary goals is promoting peace around the world, and through the Rotary Youth Exchange, it aims to make the world a more peaceful place one exchange at a time. This rationale follows the logic that if a students experience different cultures and meet people from all around the world, they will be more understanding of foreign people and countries in the future. Rotary expects that this understanding will lead to a more interconnected and peaceful world.\nThe Rotarians that participate in the program are volunteers. Many Rotarians are involved in various aspects of the youth exchange program including student selection, compliance with immigration and Rotary regulations, hosting, and supporting students. Each student is sponsored by a Rotary Club and Rotary District in their home country and is hosted by a Rotary Club and Rotary District in their host country. Most districts have a chair for the Rotary Youth Exchange program and some also have committees. Each Rotary Club that hosts a student SHOULD provide both a Rotarian youth exchange officer and a Rotarian counselor for the student. The counselor is the student's contact person within the club and provides support to the student when needed (this does not always happen). Some districts are very active and host and send many students, other districts are less active and host fewer students. Some clubs do not even invite host students to attend weekly meeting while other clubs will actively encourage the students to attend.\n\nThe parent Rotary organization, Rotary International, has instituted a Certification Program which assesses individual RYE programs with a primary focus on quality control and student safety. Rotary groups are not permitted to participate in RYE programs without first obtaining RI Certification.\n\nIn 2003, an Australian woman accused the volunteer charity, Rotary, of failing to investigate or adequately respond to her allegations of repeated abuse by a Rotarian who was supposed to be looking after her during her exchange in 1967 when she was 15.\n\nEvents for students vary from country to country and district to district, but exchange students may often be able to visit other parts of their host country and sometimes other countries while on exchange with their host families, schools, or Rotary. Many districts organize tours for the students they host, which may include weekend trips to nearby cities, tours of the host country that may last several weeks, and many students in Europe have the opportunity to take part in Eurotours which visit many countries and last two to four weeks. However, like most exchange programs, the primary purpose of Rotary Youth Exchange is to provide a cultural and academic exchange and significant independent travel by students is therefore not allowed.\n\nExchange students are called \"outbounds\" by their home (sponsor) Rotary club and district, and simultaneously \"inbounds\" by their host Rotary club and district in the country they spend their year in. Students who have completed their exchanges are called \"rebounds\". Rebounds can earn the title of \"Rotex\" in various ways depending on their host district. Some districts create requirements for rebounds to complete before becoming Rotex, while others simply allow all rebounds to become rotex. \"Rotex\" participate in the organization Rotex for helping exchangers. There is also the rare \"yo-yo\" - a student who has been on two exchanges. Other slang includes the terms \"newbies\" and \"oldies\". Due to the arrival of many of the southern hemisphere students in January and the northern hemisphere students in August, there is a group of students that are half a year behind or ahead of that current generation. A student from an older generation is an oldie and students from newer generation are newbies. This half year delay can be helpful in mentoring the newer students into an exchange student's lifestyle. Another slang word that is used is \"dinosaur\", which can refers to one's oldie's oldie. Other terms include \"Northie\" and \"Southie\", referring to student from either a northern or southern (respectively) hemisphere country, which affects the time period that an exchanger will spend in their host country. A Southie will usually depart either January or February, staying in their host country until the beginning of the next year, while a Northie usually leaves in August or September and stays until the following June or July. This is usually dependent on the students' home country. A student from the United States will almost always leave in August or September and will stay until June or July. This can result in back-to-back summers, if a student travels to the southern hemisphere.\n\nHigh school students from 15 to 19 years of age are eligible to apply to the Rotary Youth Exchange program. To apply, a student can get in contact with his/her local Rotary club through the Rotary International website. The typical application cycle begins in the September of the year before exchange, and includes various stages of interviews and paperwork. The length and exactitudes of this process depend on which Rotary district the student is from and which Rotary district he or she will travel to. Some families choose to simply host an exchange student and not send a child on exchange. A family interested in hosting an exchange student can get started by contacting his/her local Rotary club.\nRotary is somewhat known for their use of the \"Four D's\" as a way to protect their students. While abroad, Rotary students cannot Drink, Drive, Date or do Drugs. Being caught doing any of these things is grounds to be sent home. On average about 300 students are sent home a year. Within some Rotary districts there is a fifth D to avoid, Disfigurement. This rule mainly covers tattoos and piercings, but also carries over to less permanent, but still frowned upon practices, such as shaving one's head or dying hair crazy colors. Students are also expected to follow the law of the country they will be living in abroad. \n\nOf the more than 200 countries affiliated in some way with Rotary International, 80 countries typically participate in the Youth Exchange every year. The countries that participate vary from year to year, but the core members of the program (most notably in North America, Europe, and Asia) are always involved. Even though over 80 countries participate in the program, students do not have the ability to choose any country out of the 80. The Rotary district in which a student lives has a great impact on the countries he/she can go to. Most Rotary districts allow a student to pick various countries of his/her choice from a list of 20 or 30 countries, and there is no guarantee that a student will be sent to one of his/her choices. Some Rotary districts, notably in Japan, will not give prospective students any say in their country selection process. Some exchange destinations have age limitations, so an 18 year old applicant may not be able to go to as many countries as a 17 year old applicant.\n\nOnce accepted into the program it is up to the student to get themselves equipped and ready to go abroad. The responsibilities of the student and their family includes: \n\nGetting your Passport - Students should apply for their passport as soon as they are accepted into the program, as the process may take several weeks. \n\nStudent Visa and guarantee forms - Students may be required to complete a visa application and, as part of the formal Youth Exchange\napplication, and they will be required to complete a guarantee form. Rotarians facilitate the guarantee form process.\n\nAirline Tickets - While in many Rotary districts, the sponsor club will help purchase the tickets, in some they do not. Students and their families need to be prepared to have to take this responsibility unto themselves. \n\nHealth Insurance - In many Rotary districts, Insurance is included within the exchange fee; However, when it is not, students still need to have travel health insurance before their departure date. \n\nImmunization documentation - Most students are required to have immunization documentation. Local health departments and consular\nofficials can help students determine the required or recommended immunizations for the countries they are traveling to. Students should check with Rotarians from their sponsor club to determine whether additional health documentation will be necessary in the host country.\n\nDental and Medical Examinations\" - Students may need to have a thorough pre-exchange medical and dental examination.The application\nincludes an examination form that must be completed by a health care provider.\n\nToday, many Rotary Exchange students can be recognized by their Rotary Youth Exchange blazer. While most countries recommend navy blue, the blazer may also be dark green, red, black, or maroon. The color of the blazer usually depends on which country or region the exchange student is from. One Rotary tradition is that students cover their blazers in pins and patches they have traded with other students or bought in places they have visited as evidence of their exchange.\n\nBlazer colors (for countries with more than one color, the main one is in bold, the other ones are used in some regions):\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nRotary Youth Exchange from Rotary International\nRotary International\nA Primer for Exchange Students\nA Guide for Host Families\nRotary Youth Exchange from USA-Canada youth exchange network\nCultures Shocked: International Youth Exchange Forum\nYEP-Online A place where Rotary Youth Exchange Students can meet\nRotary Youth Exchange Program (Belgium/Luxembourg) D1620, D2170, D1630\nRotary Youth Exchange The Netherlands\nRotary Youth Exchange for Britain & Ireland\nRotary Youth Exchange for Spain \nRotex Belgium \n2nd International Rotex Convention July 2014, Brussels, Belgium\n"}
{"id": "810678", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=810678", "title": "Sivananda Saraswati", "text": "Sivananda Saraswati\n\nSivananda Saraswati (or Swami Sivananda) (8 September 1887 – 14 July 1963) was a Hindu spiritual teacher and a proponent of Yoga and Vedanta. Sivananda was born Kuppuswami in Pattamadai, in the Tirunelveli district of Tamil Nadu. He studied medicine and served in British Malaya as a physician for several years before taking up monasticism. He lived most of his life near Muni Ki Reti, Rishikesh.\n\nHe was the founder of the Divine Life Society (DLS) in 1936, Yoga-Vedanta Forest Academy (1948) and author of over 200 books on yoga, Vedanta, and a variety of subjects. He established Sivananda Ashram, the headquarters of the DLS, on the bank of the Ganges at Sivanandanagar, from Rishikesh.\n\nSivananda Yoga, the yoga form propagated by his disciple Vishnudevananda, is now spread in many parts of the world through Sivananda Yoga Vedanta Centres. These centres are not affiliated with Sivananda's ashrams, which are run by the Divine Life Society.\n\nSivananda was born Kuppuswamy in Pattamadai near Tirunelveli in Tamil Nadu, India, as the third son to his parents on 8 September 1887. As a child he was very active and promising in academics and gymnastics. He attended medical school in Tanjore, where he excelled. He ran a medical journal called \"Ambrosia\" during this period. Upon graduation he practised medicine and worked as a doctor in Malaya for ten years, with a reputation for providing free treatment to poor patients. Over time, a sense that medicine was healing on a superficial level grew in him, urging him to look elsewhere to fill the void, and in 1923 he left Malaya and returned to India to pursue a spiritual quest.\n\nUpon his return to India in 1924, he visited Varanasi, Nashik, and then Rishikesh, where he met his guru, Vishwānanda Saraswati. It was Vishwānanda who initiated him into the Sannyasa order, and gave him his monastic name. However, since Sivānanda spent only a few hours with Vishwānanda, the full Viraja Homa ceremonies were performed later by Vishnudevānanda, the Mandaleswara of Sri Kailas Ashram. After initiation, Sivananda settled in Rishikesh, and immersed himself in intense spiritual practices. Sivānanda performed austerities for many years but he also continued to nurse the sick. With some money from his insurance policy that had matured, he started a charitable dispensary at Lakshman Jhula in 1927, serving pilgrims, holy men and the poor using his medical expertise.\n\nAfter a few years, Sivananda went on an extensive pilgrimage and travelled the length and breadth of India to meditate at holy shrines and came in contact with spiritual teachers throughout India. During this Parivrajaka (wandering monk) life, Sivānanda visited important places of pilgrimage in the south, including Rameshvaram. He conducted Sankirtan and delivered lectures during his travels. He visited the Sri Aurobindo Ashram, and met Maharishi Shuddhananda Bharati to which he gave the title of Maharishi. At the Ramana Ashram, he had the darshan of Ramana Maharshi on Maharshi's birthday. He sang bhajans and danced in ecstasy with Maharshi's bhaktas. He also went on pilgrimages to various places in northern India including Kedarnath and Badrinath. He visited Kailash-Manasarovar in 1931.\n\nDuring Sivananda's stay in Rishikesh and his travels around India, many came to him for guidance in the spiritual path. He permitted some of them to live near him and instructed them. Sivananda asked his students take copies of his short articles and send them for publication. Over time, large numbers of people started coming to him and his devotees started growing in numbers.\n\nSivananda founded the DLS in 1936 on the banks of the Ganges River. The free distribution of spiritual literature drew a steady flow of disciples to him, such as Satyananda Saraswati, founder of Satyananda Yoga.\n\nIn 1945, Sivananda created the Sivananda Ayurvedic Pharmacy, and organised the All-world Religions Federation. He established the All-world Sadhus Federation in 1947 and Yoga-Vedanta Forest Academy in 1948. He called his yoga the \"Yoga of Synthesis\".\n\nSwami Sivananda entered Mahasamadhi (departure of a Self-realized saint from his mortal coil) on 14 July 1963 in his Kutir on the bank of the Ganges, in Sivanandanagar.\n\nSivananda's two chief acting organizational disciples were Chidananda Saraswati and Krishnananda Saraswati. Chidananda Saraswati was appointed president of the DLS by Sivananda in 1963 and served in this capacity until his death in 2008. Krishnananda Saraswati was appointed General Secretary by Sivananda in 1958 and served in this capacity until his death in 2001.\n\nOther prominent disciples were Venkatesananda Saraswati (South Africa, Mauritius, Madagascar, Australia), Pranavanda Saraswati (Malaysia) and Sivananda Radha Saraswati (Canada). Another prominent disciple was Swami Sahajananda Saraswati (South Africa), who was directed by Sivananda to establish the Divine Life Society of South Africa.\n\n\n\nA prolific author, Sivananda wrote 296 books on a variety of subjects: metaphysics, yoga, religion, western philosophy, psychology, eschatology, fine arts, ethics, education, health, sayings, poems, epistles, autobiography, biography, stories, dramas, messages, lectures, dialogues, essays and anthology. His books emphasised the practical application of Yoga philosophy over theoretical knowledge.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1973266", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973266", "title": "Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava", "text": "Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava\n\nSlovak University of Technology in Bratislava (STU) () is the biggest and oldest university of technology in Slovakia. In the 2012 Academic Ranking of World Universities it was ranked in the first 150 in Computer Science, the only university in central Europe in the first 200. However, it lost this position in the two following years.\n\n\nThe Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava signed a Memorandum of Understanding with the European Alliance for Innovation on the 3rd of May 2013. The signators were the president of the European Alliance for Innovation, professor Imrich Chlamtac and the rector of the Slovak University of Technology in Bratislava, Robert Redhammer.\n\nThe purpose of this cooperation is to help innovation made in the STU to reach the market, as well as create a base of operations for EAI in Central Europe.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32689370", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32689370", "title": "Stein Rokkan memorial lecture", "text": "Stein Rokkan memorial lecture\n\nThe \"Stein Rokkan Memorial Lecture\" is an annual lecture which is arranged by the Department of Comparative Politics () at the University of Bergen, Norway. Since 2002, the organising of the lecture has been in cooperation with the UNI Rokkan Centre. The purpose of the lecture is to draw attention to some of the most outstanding exponents of Stein Rokkan’s fields of research; first and foremost political science, sociology and comparative politics.\n\n"}
{"id": "11788024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11788024", "title": "Symbole", "text": "Symbole\n\nThe symbole, also called ar vuoc'h (\"the cow\"), was an object used by Francophone headmasters in public and private schools in Brittany, French Flanders, Occitania, Basque Country and North Catalonia as a means of punishment for students caught speaking Breton, Flemish, Occitan or Catalan during the 19th and 20th centuries. \n\nGenerally, the student was supposed to pass the \"symbole\" onto another of his fellow students after catching him speaking Breton, Occitan or Catalan (referred to as \"patois\"). The student in possession of the object at the end of recess, the half-day, or the day would be punished with, for example, manual labor, extra homework, corporal punishment, or organized mockery led by the headmaster.\n\nThe \"symbole\" could be:\n\nThe purpose of its use was:\n\n"}
{"id": "33621903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33621903", "title": "Tati Alcántara", "text": "Tati Alcántara\n\nTatiana Alcántara known as Tati Alcántara is a Peruvian actress, dancer, choreographer, singer, model & entrepreneur. She currently runs her own dance academy called \"ESCENI-K\".\n\nIn 2004 played Sandra Luna in the teen telenovela \"Besos Robados\".\n\nIn May 2009 she participated in the play \"Cabaret\", as Lulu. The following year she starred alongside Marco Zunino, the musical \"Rent\", as Mimi.\n\nIn June 2011 she participated in the musical \"West Side Story\".\n\nIn September 2011 two programs involved in the dance reality show \"El Gran Show\", replacing Maricielo Effio. Two months later participate in \"\".\n\nIn May 2012 she will play Velma Kelly in the musical \"Chicago\".\n"}
{"id": "47162990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47162990", "title": "Technology Education and Literacy in Schools", "text": "Technology Education and Literacy in Schools\n\nTechnology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS) is a program that pairs high schools with software engineers who serve as part-time computer science teachers.\n\nThe program was started in 2009 by Microsoft software engineer Kevin Wang. Microsoft incubated the program after Wang's divisional president learned about the program. TEALS' goal is to create self-perpetuating computer science programs within two or three years. Volunteers undergo a three-month summer class that teach them about making lesson plans and leading classes. Afterwards, software engineers visit classrooms four or five mornings a week for the entire school year to teach computer science concepts to both students and teachers.\n\nTEALS volunteers are not required to be Microsoft employees and can have formal degrees or be self-taught in computer science. TEALS offers support for three classes: Introduction to Computer Science, Web Design, and AP Computer Science A.\n\nKevin Wang graduated from the University of California, Berkeley in 2002 with a degree in electrical engineering and computer science. To pursue his teaching passion, he declined several industry job offers. Wang taught in the Bay Area for several years, and attended the Harvard Graduate School of Education, where he received a Master of Education. He became a computer science teacher at Woodside Priory School in Portola Valley, California, teaching grades seven–twelve for three years. He convinced fellow Microsoft employees and other acquaintances to teach computer science at other schools. After joining Microsoft, Wang started volunteering to teach the morning computer science class at Issaquah High School, a nearby high school, in 2009.\n\nIn 2009, Wang founded Technology Education and Literacy in Schools (TEALS), a program that aims to bring software engineers to high school classrooms to teach computer science part-time. He thought that he would have to resign from Microsoft to oversee the program's significant expansion. Wang sold his Porsche 911 to bankroll the program. After the vice president of Wang's Microsoft division discovered TEALS, the vice president took him to the divisional president who recommended he work full-time at Microsoft on managing TEALS. According to CNN, Microsoft chose to \"incubate\" TEALS for three primary reasons. First, the program fit with Microsoft's philanthropic goals. Second, Microsoft founder Bill Gates had an enduring desire to advocate for learning. Third, the software industry had a shortage of engineers. In a 2012 interview with GeekWire, Wang said TEALS has two long-term goals. The first is to give every American high school student the opportunity to take an introductory computer science course and an AP Computer Science course. The second is to have the same proportion of students taking AP Computer Science as those taking AP Biology, AP Chemistry, and AP Physics.\n\nTEALS is part of YouthSpark, a Microsoft initiative that plans to give more educational and employment to 300 million young people between 2012 and 2015. A 2015 article in the \"Altavista Journal\" quoted the TEALS website, noting that the United States has 80,000 unfilled jobs that need a computer science degree. The \"Altavista Journal\" further reported that this would cause the United States to lose $500 billion over the following 10 years and that only 10% of American high schools have computer science courses. TEALS is managed by Microsoft's Akhtar Badshah, the senior director of citizenship and public affairs.\n\nWang designed a three-month summer class for Microsoft employees who wanted to volunteer with TEALS. The class taught the employees about devising lesson plans and leading classes. TEALS aims to create self-perpetuating computer science programs within two or three years. The software engineers commit to being physically present at the school for around four or five days weekly. The classes are scheduled for first period since many volunteers do not start work until later in the morning. For rural schools that lack the capital to run a computer science class, TEALS enables software engineers to instruct students distantly through videoconferencing.\n\nThe first two semesters, the software engineers to educate the teachers side by side with the students. The third semester, the software engineers and teachers coteach the students. By the fourth semester, the teachers lead the class, and the software engineers become \"teaching assistants\". The aim is to enable the teachers who have math and science backgrounds in the future to lead the classes by themselves.\n\nTEALS provides support for three classes. Two of the classes are one-semester long: Introduction to Computer Science and Web Design. The third class, Advanced Placement Computer Science A, is two-semesters long. In a 2015 interview with the \"Altavista Journal\", Microsoft spokesperson Kate Frischmann said, \"TEALS is open to everyone, inside and outside of Microsoft, who have a background or formal degree in the field of computer science.\"\n\nIn the 2010–2011 school year, the program's trial year, ten TEALS volunteers instructed 250 Puget Sound region high school students from four schools. In 2011–2012 school year, TEALS expanded to 30 volunteers and six assistants educating 800 high school students in 13 schools. In the 2012–2013 school year, 22 schools around Seattle participated in TEALS. Microsoft invited the students in Seattle to visit the company's campus, hoping to spark excitement in technology. That school year, TEALS expanded to 120 volunteers in seven states teaching 2,000 students at 37 high schools. The schools were in Washington, Kentucky, California, Virginia, Utah, Washington, D.C., Minnesota, and North Dakota. In the 2013–2014 school year, TEALS grew to 280 volunteers in 12 states educating 3,000 students at 70 schools. In the 2014–2015 school year, 490 TEALS volunteers worked in 131 schools educating 6,600 students.\n\n"}
{"id": "9524826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9524826", "title": "UAW-Ford University", "text": "UAW-Ford University\n\nThe UAW-Ford University is an online program designed and implemented by the University of Michigan under contract with the National Program Center of the United Auto Workers Union and Ford Motor Company. Its goal is to facilitate the college educations of UAW bargained for employees using distance learning technologies and pedagogies developed at Michigan. The program began in 1999. Its innovative use of both synchronous and asynchronous technologies let to the award of Laureate status from the \"Computerworld\"/Smithsonian Honors Program.\n\nThe UAW-Ford University program has a partnership with the online Empire State College.\n\n"}
{"id": "41925723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41925723", "title": "Wyvern (vessel)", "text": "Wyvern (vessel)\n\nWyvern is a open sea sailing ship operated by Stavanger Maritime Museum. The ship was designed by Colin Archer on a commission from British-born Frederick Croft and was launched on 10 August 1897. She sailed under the German flag from 1909. The Norwegian newspaper editor Rolf Thommessen bought her in 1924 and renamed her \"\" (\"Mermaid III\"). This name was kept by the English owners, Anne and Terrence Carr, who acquired her in 1947 and sailed her for 27 years.\n\nIn 1984, \"Wyvern\" was donated to the Stavanger Maritime Museum by local companies which had paid for her restoration. She sank in the Baltic Sea on 11 July 2013 during the 2013 Tall Ships' Race. The crew were rescued, but a member of a rescue team died during the accident. She was raised from the sea in August 2013 and returned to Stavanger. In December 2013, Her repairs started at a Denmark shipyard.\n\nThe vessel is long, with a beam of and a depth of . Her main mast is . The vessel carries of sail and has a Volvo Penta diesel engine as auxiliary power. She is assessed as , .\n\nFrederick Croft, a timber merchant who was born in Hull, United Kingdom but lived in Skien, Norway, commissioned the vessel in 1894 from Colin Archer, a ship designer and ship builder who also built \"Fram\" for the explorer Fridtjov Nansen. The construction took place at the shipbuilding yard Porsgrund Baatbyggeri which was headed by Thor Martin Jensen. Named after the heraldic beast wyvern, the vessel was launched in 1897. Croft used her among other things to sail to his hometown Hull.\n\nShe sailed, from 1909, under the German flag and the name \"Tatjana\", but later returned to Norway. Newspaper editor Rolf Thommessen bought her in 1924 and renamed her \"\" (\"Mermaid III\"). This name was kept when she was sold in 1934 to the English couple Anne and Terrence Carr. They sailed her for 27 years. The Carrs crossed the Atlantic twelve times and in the 1950s sailed around the world in the vessel.\n\nIn 1977 she was found to be in a bad condition in Ibiza, where she had sailed as a tourist boat for some years. After an initiative by the Norwegian Maritime Museum, she was brought back to Norway for restoration by companies in the oil industry in Rogaland in 1978. In 1984, she was given to Stavanger Maritime Museum as a cultural monument by Crown Prince Haakon. Sailed by volunteers, she has represented Stavanger in several national and international sailing regattas and gatherings, including five Tall Ship races.\n\nOn 11 July 2013, during the 2013 Tall Ships' Race, \"Wyvern\" started to take in water between the Swedish islands Gotland and Öland. Sweden’s air and sea rescue service retrieved the ten crew members; \"Wyvern\" sank about four hours after she had sent her distress call.\n\nThree crew members from the Dutch sailship \"Wylde Swan\", which also participated in the Tall Ships' race, went onboard \"Wyvern\" shortly before she sank in an attempt to rescue the vessel by pumping out water. Two of the crew were later rescued, but a third crew member went down with the ship. He was found in the sea on 14 July 2013.\n\n\"Wyvern\" lay about under water after the foundering and various oil companies donated money to salvage her. Slavagers raised her from the Baltic Sea on 11 August 2013 and brought her to Stavanger on board the ship . She arrived in Stavanger on 15 August 2013. The cause of the foundering was found to be fractures in three keel bolts. In December 2013, \"Wyvern\" sailed to Denmark for repairs at a shipyard.\n"}
