{"id": "651555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=651555", "title": "Afro-American religion", "text": "Afro-American religion\n\nAfro-American religion (also known as African diasporic religions) are a number of related religions that developed in the Americas in various nations of Latin America, the Caribbean, and the southern United States. They derive from traditional African religions with some influence from other religious traditions, notably Christianity.\n\nAfro-American religions involve veneration of the dead, and include a creator deity along with a pantheon of divine spirits such as the Orisha, Loa, Nkisi, and Alusi, among others. In addition to the religious syncretism of these various African traditions, many also incorporate elements of Folk Catholicism, Native American religion, Spiritism, Spiritualism and European folklore.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1507897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1507897", "title": "Algerian Family Code", "text": "Algerian Family Code\n\nThe Algerian Family Code (, ), enacted on June 9, 1984, specifies the laws relating to familial relations in Algeria. It includes strong elements of Islamic law which have brought it praise from Islamists and condemnation from secularists and feminists.\n\nIts critics particularly focus on its implications for women (who have less right to divorce than men, and who receive smaller shares of inheritance) and sometimes for apostates (who are disinherited, and whose marriages may be nullified.) President Abdelaziz Bouteflika has declared that it must be revised in the spirit of universal human rights and Islamic law. Reactions were mixed. Lachhab of the Islamist El Islah party declared that \"We oppose these amendments which are contrary to Sharia, and thus to article 2 of the Constitution,\" whereas Nouria Hafsi of the pro-government RND declared \"These timid amendments put forward a modern reading of the Sharia; the rights of women will finally be recognized by law. As of early 2005 it has not been changed.\n\nMarriage is defined as a legal contract between a man and a woman. The legal age of marriage is 21 for a man, 18 for a woman; judges may in special cases allow earlier marriage. A man may marry up to four wives; if so, he must treat them equally and inform them in advance, and they may demand a divorce. Marriage requires the consent of both parties and a gift by the groom of a dowry to the bride, as well as the presence of the bride's father or guardian (\"wali\") and of two witnesses. The father of the bride may block the marriage, although her guardian may not. The marriage must be registered before a notary or legal functionary. Marriage is forbidden between close relatives by descent, marriage, or nursing: thus a man may not marry his mother, daughter, sister, aunt, niece, mother-in-law, daughter-in-law, stepmother-in-law, or stepdaughter-in-law, nor may he marry anyone who suckled from the same woman as he did, or from whom he suckled. A man may not be married to two sisters simultaneously. Marriage is also forbidden between a couple who have divorced each other for the third time, unless the wife has since been married to someone else. A Muslim woman may not marry a non-Muslim man, and a marriage may be annulled on the grounds of the spouse's apostasy. A husband is required to provide for his wife to the best of his abilities, and to treat his wives equally if he marries more than one. A wife is required to obey her husband and respect him as head of the family, to bring up and nurse his children, and to respect his parents and relatives. A wife has the right to visit her parents and to receive visits from them, and has rights over her own property.\n\nThe husband may divorce his wife at will; if he is judged to have abused this privilege, his wife may be awarded damages, and he must provide for his divorced wife and her children if she has no family to go to, unless she had previously divorced or was guilty of immorality. The wife may request a divorce if any of the following apply:\nIf she obtains the divorce, she must pay reparations not to exceed the value of the dowry, and may not remarry until three menstrual periods have elapsed, or, if pregnant, until her baby's birth. In case of the father's absence or of divorce, custody of the child goes to his mother, or failing that his maternal grandmother or aunt, or failing that his father or paternal grandfather, or some other relative. A child's guardian must bring the child up in the religion of the child's father. A child brought up by a guardian attains independence at 10 (if male), or at marriage (if female).\n\nIn February 2011, President Bouteflika announced the fall of the State of Urgency in Algeria, assuring the abolition of the Code of the family in the near future.\n"}
{"id": "6549522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6549522", "title": "Arya Samaj in Fiji", "text": "Arya Samaj in Fiji\n\nThe Arya Samaj was the first religious, cultural and educational Fiji Indian organisation established in Fiji. From its inception, in 1904, it attracted the young, educated and progressive Hindus into its fold. During the first three decades of the twentieth century, it was the sole voice of the Indian community in Fiji, and as Fiji Indians won political rights, it was not surprising that first Indian members of the Legislative Council were all Arya Samajis. The influence of Arya Samaj over the Indians in Fiji gradually waned as other organisations representing Indians were established but it remained the dominant force in politics until 1959. The modern day Arya Samaj in Fiji still speaks out on issues affecting its members and its activities are visible through the numerous educational institutions that it manages.\n\nAs far back as 1893, learning centres had been established by small groups of people who had organised themselves into Samajs. With the arrival of Shiu Datt Sharma from India, in 1902, a temple was established in Samabula, near Suva, which also acted as a school attended by about 60 boys and girls.\n\nA person who had a profound influence on the establishment of Arya Samaj in Fiji was a 22-year-old man from Punjab, Behari Lal, who while on his way to Argentina via Australia, stopped over in Fiji. He found employment at the Navua Sugar Mill, but visited Suva regularly where people interested in the teachings of Swami Dayanand Saraswati gathered at the residence of Mangal Singh. Lal had a copy of the Satyarth Prakash in the Urdu language from which he read and explained portions to the congregation every Sunday.\n\nIt was this small group of Fiji Indians who included Mangal Singh, Gaji Pratap Singh, Nanku Sonar, Bihari Lal, Shiu Datt Sharma, Basdeo Rai, Inayat Hussein, Indra Narayan and Tikaram Verma, who met in Samabula on 25 December 1904 to form the Arya Samaj of Fiji. This was due to their desire to maintain their heritage and provide a platform for lifting their living standard and the inspiration they received from the teaching of Swami Dayanand Saraswati, the founder of Arya Samaj.\n\nArya Samaj’s work in Fiji received a boost with the arrival of Arya Samaj Missionary from India, Swami Ram Manoharanand Saraswati, who arrived in Fiji from Burma in 1913. Totaram Sanadhya, although himself a \"Sanatani\", has written about the early contribution of Arya Samaj to providing education and religious education in Fiji and asked for them to send more educators to Fiji. \n\nAn Arya Samaji gentleman by the name of Ram Manoharanand Sarasvati went and he preached there, therefore these words of thanks. There is a very great need for this sort of religious instructor there, who knows Vedic principles and knows English as well... We know that Arya Samaj is doing a lot of work, but aren't these givers of aid to the world, the Arya Samaj, able to send one more religious instructor to Fiji, for the benefit of our foreign-dwelling brothers? \nThe Arya Samaj appealed to those who wanted to build a revitalised Hinduism in Fiji suitable to the local conditions. Badri Maharaj, who built the first school for Indians in Fiji in 1898 was an Arya Samaji and so was the first Indian Lawyer to arrive in Fiji, Manilal Doctor, who had been involved in Arya Samaj in Mauritius and believed that Arya Samaj was the best sect for the individualized Indians in Fiji. The first school was built by Arya Samaj in Fiji was the Gurukul Primary School in Saweni, Lautoka in 1918.\n\nFollowing the establishment of this school a great renaissance took place amongst Indo-Fijians to educate their children. This was supported by the arrival from India of a number of teachers, some of whom were Ami Chandra, Kundan Singh Kush and Kunwar Bachint Singh. Between 1926 and 1929 more than 100 Indo-Fijian boys and girls were sent to India to study at various Arya Samaj institutions. In the early thirties, Arya Samaj was the best organised of any Indo-Fijian organisation. It also had as its leader, Vishnu Deo and the only Hindi language newspaper in Fiji, \"Fiji Samachar\". The Arya Samaj aggressively promoted its teaching and openly attempted to gain converts from Muslims. Arya Samaj activities in Fiji reached a peak with the arrival of another missionary, Shri Krishna Sharma from India. Conflict soon developed with Indian Christians, Muslims, South Indians and even \"Sanatanis\" who had initially supported the Arya Samaj through Hindu Sangsthans. There were debates on religious issues, but when Vishnu Deo was convicted and fined for an article in the \"Fiji Samachar\", things quietened down.\n\nThe Arya Samaj, henceforth, concentrated on its educational activities and built numerous educational institutions. Arya Samajis continued to provide leadership to the Indo-Fijians and until the 1960s most Indo-Fijian leaders were either \"Arya Samajis\" or those with close links to the Arya Samaj in Fiji. Some who served on the Legislative Council were Badri Maharaj, Vishnu Deo, Parmanand Singh, Chattur Singh, Ayodhya Prasad, Ami Chandra, K. B. Singh and Vijay R. Singh. Some \"Arya Samaji\" members of Parliament since independence have been Vijay R. Singh, Dr. Ganesh Chand, Kamlesh Kumar Arya, Surendra Prasad, Anand Singh and Davendra Singh.\n\nAs Indo-Fijians have migrated overseas, they have taken their religion and culture with them Consequently, Arya Samajs have been established in a number of countries by former Indo-Fijians. The following are links to the Web Sites of some of these:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1544374", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1544374", "title": "Auditing (Scientology)", "text": "Auditing (Scientology)\n\nIn the Church of Scientology, auditing is a process wherein the auditor takes an individual, known as a \"preclear\", through times in their life and gets rid of any hold negative situations have on them. Auditing began as an integral part of the Dianetics movement and has since, with the E-meter, become a core practice in Scientology. Auditing is defined by the Church as \"the application of Dianetics or Scientology processes and procedures to someone by a trained auditor. One formal definition of auditing is the action of asking a person a question (which he can understand and answer), getting an answer to that question and acknowledging him or her for that answer.\" Auditing is considered \"a technical measure,\" that according to the Church, \"lifts the burdened individual, the 'preclear,' from a level of spiritual distress to a level of insight and inner self-realization.\" The process is meant to bring the individual to clear status.\n\nAccording to scholar Eric Roux, auditing is one of the \"core practices\" of Scientology. The primary aim of auditing in Scientology doctrine is to rediscover an individual's natural abilities, while understanding that one is a spiritual being.\n\nSome auditing actions use commands, for example \"Recall a time you knew you understood someone,\" and some auditing actions use questions such as, \"What are you willing for me to talk to others about?\"\n\nIn the context of Dianetics or Scientology, auditing is an activity where an auditor, trained in the task of communication, listens and gives auditing commands to a subject, who is referred to as a \"preclear\", or more often as a \"pc\". While auditing sessions are confidential, the notes taken by the auditor during auditing sessions. Preclears never see their own pc folders.Scientology does not agree with evaluation of a PC. Having a pc observe their own folder might bring an evaluation into his/her universe making it harder for him/her to spot the actual core of a current situation. \n\nAuditing involves the use of \"processes,\" which are sets of questions asked or directions given by an auditor. When the specific objective of any one process is achieved, the process is ended and another can then be started. Through auditing, the subjects are said to free themselves from barriers that inhibit their natural abilities. Outlining the auditing process, Scientology founder L. Ron Hubbard explained:\nScientologists the person being audited is completely aware of everything that happens and becomes even more alert as auditing progresses. As Hubbard wrote,\n\nThe auditor is obliged by the Church's doctrine to maintain a strict code of conduct, called the Auditor's Code. Auditing is said to be successful only when the auditor conducts himself in accordance with the Code. A violation of the Auditor's Code is considered a high crime under Scientology policy.\n\nThe code outlines a series of 29 promises, which include pledges such as:\n\nThe main intention of an auditing session is to remove \"charted incidents\" that have caused trauma, which are believed in Scientology to be stored in the reactive mind. These incidents must then be eliminated for proper functioning, in accordance with the Church's belief.\n\nAccording to the religion researcher Hugh B. Urban, both current Scientologists and people who have become disaffected with Scientology generally agree that auditing can trigger personal insights and cause dramatic changes in one's psychological state. The recalling and expression of old hurts in response to the auditor's questions may feel like an unburdening, followed by a period of elation, as though a weight has been lifted off the practitioner's shoulders.\n\nScientology makes a distinction between auditors, those who practice auditing, and publics, those who receive the prosses but do not receive training to perform the practice on others until they wish to do so. Auditors are deemed in Scientology as higher state individuals as they are regarded as more focused in achieving the goals of the religion, or \"clearing the planet,\" in Scientological terminology.\n\nIn 1952, auditing techniques \"began to focus on the goal of exteriorizing the thetan\" in order to provide one with a complete awareness of one's spiritual nature. According to Eric Roux, \"many auditing techniques were designed towards gaining spiritual freedom by way of increasing communication of the thetan with the physical universe, in order to develop freedom from the physical universe.\" Scientologists believe that the thetan \"can exist separately from the body, with a full awareness of being out of it, a phenomenon which Scientologists call 'exteriorization.' (Hubbard 1952)\n\nMost auditing sessions employ a device called the Hubbard Electropsychometer or E-meter. This device is a custom electrodermal activity measurement device. It measures changes in the electrical resistance of the preclear by passing a small electric current (typically in the range from 50 µA to 120 µA) through the preclear's body by means of a pair of tin-plated tubes originally much like empty soup cans, attached to the meter by wires and held by the preclear during auditing. These changes in electrical resistance are believed by Scientologists to be a reliable and a precise indication of changes in the reactive mind of the preclear.\n\nAccording to Scientologist doctrine, the development of the E-meter enabled auditing techniques and made it more precise. Later, the E-meter was used to identify which processes should (and could) be run and equally crucially, to determine when to stop running a particular action. As a repair tool, the E-meter reacts to a list of possible difficulties and relevant phrases called out by the auditor, helping to guide the auditor to the difficulty. Hubbard clarified how the E-Meter should be used in conjunction with auditing:\n\nHubbard claimed that the device also has such sensitivity that it can measure whether or not fruits can experience pain, claiming in 1968 that tomatoes \"scream when sliced.\"\n\nScientology teaches that individuals are immortal souls or spirits (called \"thetans\" by Scientology) and are not limited to a single lifetime. The E-meter is believed to aid the auditor in locating subliminal memories (\"engrams\", \"incidents\", and \"implants\") of past events in a thetan's current life and in previous ones. In such Scientology publications as \"Have You Lived Before This Life\", Hubbard wrote about past life experiences dating back billions and even trillions of years.\n\nWhen various foundations of Dianetics were formed in the 1950s, auditing sessions were a hybrid of confession, counseling and psychotherapy. According to Passas and Castillo, the e-meter was believed to be used to \"disclose truth to the individual who is being processed and thus free him spiritually.\"\n\nBack in 1950, at the very end of his book, \"Dianetics: the Modern Science of Mental Health\", Hubbard talks about a bridge from one plateau of existence to another, higher plateau.\n\nHubbard wanted to make the processes structured in such a way that one could take a new person and walk them through standardized steps, one after another, to cross this hypothesized \"Bridge\". This intent led to the development of the Standard Operating Procedure for Theta Clearing by 1952. Standard Operating Procedure for the Church of Scientology changed rapidly, meaning that when somebody was trained as an auditor they were almost immediately out of date with the latest procedures.\n\nIn 1970, the Standard Operating Procedure was used to create the Classification and Gradation Chart. This chart, first published in 1965 and revised in 1966, 1968 and 1969, had the steps of the bridge plotted out from a beginner at the bottom to the highest states attainable at the top. The left-hand side of the chart contains auditor skill levels, while the right-hand side contains pre-clear grades and OT (Operating Thetan) levels.\n\nThe 1970 version of the chart is entitled \"Classification Gradation and Awareness Chart of Levels and Certificates\". By 1974 the above title had slipped down a little to make way for \"THE BRIDGE\" as the top line, with \"TO A NEW WORLD\" underneath in a smaller font. A more recent (circa 2016) chart is entitled \"THE BRIDGE TO TOTAL FREEDOM\" and subtitled \"SCIENTOLOGY CLASSIFICATION GRADATION AND AWARENESS CHART.\"\n\nEach Grade on the Bridge has a list of processes that auditors should run. Below are sample commands from processes run in each Grade.\n\nEach Grade is targeted at a specific area of potential difficulty a person might have. The working hypothesis is that if the subject matter is not \"charged\"; in other words, if it is not causing any difficulty, then it will not read on the E-meter, and therefore will not be run.\n\nThe above processes demonstrate a key aspect of Scientology processes. The question or command can be quite general. It is absolutely forbidden (by the Auditor's Code) for the auditor to interpret the preclear's answer or discuss it in any way.\n\nA possible audit could be performed like this:\n\nThe Scientology and Dianetics auditing process has raised concerns from a number of quarters, as auditing sessions are permanently recorded in the form of handwritten notes in preclear folders, which are supposed to be kept private. Judge Paul Breckenridge, in Church of Scientology of California vs. Gerald Armstrong, noted that Mary Sue Hubbard (the plaintiff in that case) \"authored the infamous order 'GO 121669', which directed culling of supposedly confidential P.C. [Preclear] files/folders for the purposes of internal security\". This directive was later canceled because it was not part of Scientology as written by L. Ron Hubbard. Bruce Hines has noted in an interview with Hoda Kotb that Scientology's collecting of personal and private information through auditing can possibly leave an adherent vulnerable to potential \"blackmail\" should they ever consider disaffecting from the church. A number of sources have claimed that preclear folders have indeed been used for intimidation and harassment.\n\nIn 1965 the Anderson Report, an official inquiry conducted for the state of Victoria, Australia, found that auditing involved a form of \"authoritative\" or \"command\" hypnosis, in which the hypnotist assumes \"positive authoritative control\" over the subject. \"It is the firm conclusion of this Board that most scientology and dianetic techniques are those of authoritative hypnosis and as such are dangerous. ... the scientific evidence which the Board heard from several expert witnesses of the highest repute ... which was virtually unchallenged - leads to the inescapable conclusion that it is only in name that there is any difference between authoritative hypnosis and most of the techniques of scientology. \"\n\nAs a result of the Anderson Report, a number of restrictive laws were passed in Australia against Scientology, but in the ensuing years, all were repealed. As of 2011 auditing is considered a spiritual practice by the government of Australia.\n\nL. Ron Hubbard claimed benefits from auditing including improved IQ, improved ability to communicate, enhanced memory and alleviation of issues such as psychosis, dyslexia and attention deficit disorder. Some people have alleged that auditing amounts to medical treatment without a license, and in the 1950s, some auditors were arrested on the charge. The Church disputes that it is practicing medicine, and it has successfully established in United States courts of law that auditing addresses only spiritual relief. According to the Church, the psychotherapist treats mental health and the Church treats the spiritual being. Hubbard clarified the difference between the two:\nIn 1971, a ruling of the United States District Court, District of Columbia (333 F. Supp. 357), specifically stated that the E-meter \"has no proven usefulness in the diagnosis, treatment or prevention of any disease, nor is it medically or scientifically capable of improving any bodily function.\" As a result of this ruling, Scientology now publishes disclaimers in its books and publications declaring that the E-meter \"by itself does nothing\" and that it is used specifically for spiritual purposes.\n\nDutch investigative reporter Rinke Verkerk reported that she was given an auditing session by an 11-year-old in the Netherlands. This has been criticized by clinical psychologists and child psychologists, on the grounds that secondary stress can affect children more strongly than adults. The fact that the child was working full days for a whole weekend was also considered to be problematic.\n\n"}
{"id": "20217230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20217230", "title": "Bharat Sevashram Sangha", "text": "Bharat Sevashram Sangha\n\nBharat Sevashram Sangha () is a Hindu charitable non-governmental organisation in India. It was founded in 1917 by Acharya Srimat Swami Pranavanandaji Maharaj. The Sangha has hundreds of ashrams in India and other countries including the United Kingdom, United States, Guyana, Trinidad and Tobago, Canada, Fiji and Bangladesh. It has initiated several missions to African countries, Malaysia, and Indonesia; monks from the Sangha have accompanied United Nations delegations to Syria and Lebanon.\n\nThe Sangha is recognized for their community work, helping poor and providing healthcare to those in need. \n\nThe Sangha has responded to natural calamities in Andhra Pradesh and Orissa states, the Bengal famine of 1943, the Bhopal disaster, the 2001 Gujarat earthquake, and the 2004 Indian Ocean tsunami. At times of political unrest such as the Partition of India, the Sangha has set up refugee camps and war evacuee camps in the border areas.\n\nIt has organised several projects to help impoverished Indian tribal people. One such project involved providing schooling for children of the Sabar tribe and providing them with housing and healthcare. It also hosts courses to train youths in information technology to enable them to find jobs which require IT skills.\n\nFollowing the 2004 Indian Ocean earthquake, the Sangha's monks proposed to set up a school for orphans at a cost of Rs. 4250,000s, an orphanage at Rs.6020,000, and 200 houses at Rs.30 millions on the Andaman and Nicobar Islands. In Tamil Nadu state, where the tsunami killed more than 7,000 in the districts of Cuddalore, Nagapattinam and Chennai, the Sangha was one of the first to begin massive relief operations by building nearly 200 new houses at Sonankuppam village in Cuddaloer. Fishing boats and nets were also distributed to locals who had lost everything to the sea.\n\nThe Sangha actively provides shelter, food, medical treatment and public safety services to pilgrims at various places of worship and religious fairs in India, such as the Kumbha Mela. It operates free hospitals at Barajuri and Kolkata, mobile dispensary and medical units in sixty-four locations, a free residence for patients and their families in Navi Mumbai, and four hospitals and homes for leprosy patients. A 500-bed hospital at Joka, Kolkata was inaugurated in 2010 by the Indian Finance Minister as an example of private-public partnerships in healthcare.\n\n"}
{"id": "23209458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23209458", "title": "Buddhism and Gnosticism", "text": "Buddhism and Gnosticism\n\nBuddhologist Edward Conze (1966) has proposed that similarities existed between Buddhism and Gnosticism, a term deriving from the name \"Gnostics\" given to a number of Christian sects. To the extent that the Buddha taught the existence of evil inclinations that remain unconquered, or that require special spiritual knowledge to conquer, Buddhism has also qualified as Gnostic.\n\nEdward Conze claimed to have noted phenomenological commonalities between Mahayana Buddhism and Gnosticism, in his paper \"Buddhism and Gnosis\", following an early suggestion by Isaac Jacob Schmidt. Conze explicitly compared Mahayana Buddhism with \"gnosis,\" that is, knowledge or insight, and not with \"the Gnostics,\" because too little was known about the Gnostics as a social group. Based on Conze's eight similarities, Hoeller gives the following list of similarities:\n\nAccording to Conze, these commonalities were not by chance, but inherent to the essence of both religions. How these similarities came into existence was unclear for Conze, but according to Verardi they may be related to the sea trade between the Roman Empire and India, which was intense at the time. Verardi further notes the similarities between the social-economic base of both Gnosticism and Buddhism, namely merchants, which both had to compete with the \"great organised powers,\" of Rome and the Christian Church, and of the Brahmans. Both communities represented \"an open economy and society lacking the defenses (and the vexations) of \"nomos\",\" the law and institutions of the establishment.\n\nConze's suggestions were noted by Elaine Pagels as a \"possibility,\" in the introduction to \"The Gnostic Gospels\", but Pagels' and Conze's suggestion has not gained academic acceptance or generated significant further study.\n\nAccording to Giuseppe Tucci, Manicheism may have influenced Tantric Buddhism, while Mircea Eliade noted similarities in the symbolism of light and mystic knowledge, predating Manicheism, and possibly going back to an early common Indo-Iranian source. Verardi notes that Manicheism is the prime source for comparisons between Buddhism and Gnosticism, Manicheism representing \"the same urban and mercantile ambience of which Buddhism was an expression in India.\" When the mercantile economy declined, with the decline of the Roman empire, Manicheism lost its support. The Manicheists were hostile to the closed society of farming and landownership, just like the Buddhism conflicted with the \"non-urban world controlled by Brahman laymen.\"\n\nMani, an Arsacid Persian by birth, was born 216 AD in Mesopotamia (modern Iraq), then within the Persian Sassanid Empire. According to the Cologne Mani-Codex, Mani's parents were members of the Jewish Christian Gnostic sect known as the Elcesaites.\n\nMani believed that the teachings of Buddha, Zoroaster, and Jesus were incomplete, and that his revelations were for the entire world, calling his teachings the \"Religion of Light.\" Following Mani's travels to the Kushan Empire at the beginning of his proselytizing career, various Buddhist influences seem to have permeated Manichaeism:\nEarly 3rd century–4th century Christian writers such as Hippolytus and Epiphanius write about a Scythianus, who visited India around 50 CE from where he brought four books and \"the doctrine of the Two Principles\", in which the early church fathers describe as assigning both \"good\" and \"evil\" to God. According to Cyril of Jerusalem, Scythianus' pupil Terebinthus presented himself as a \"Buddha\" (\"He called himself Buddas\"). Terebinthus went to Palestine and Judaea (\"becoming known and condemned\"), and ultimately settled in Babylon, where he transmitted his teachings to a woman who left his books to a young Mani, thereby creating the foundation of Manichaeism:\nAccording to Willis Barnstone and Marvin Meyer, evidence of the influence of Buddhist thought on the teachings of Mani can be found throughout texts related to Mani. In the story of the Death of Mani, the Buddhist term Nirvana is being used:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9088697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9088697", "title": "Buddhism in Pakistan", "text": "Buddhism in Pakistan\n\nBuddhism in Pakistan took root some 2,300 years ago under the Mauryan king Ashoka, whom Nehru once called “greater than any king or emperor.” Buddhism has a long history in present-day history of Pakistan — over time being part of areas within Bactria, the Indo-Greek Kingdom, the Kushan Empire; Ancient India with the Maurya Empire of Ashoka, the Pala Empire; the Punjab region, and Indus River Valley cultures — areas now within the present day nation of Pakistan. Buddhist scholar Kumāralabdha () of the Taxila was comparable to Aryadeva, Aśvaghoṣa and Nagarjuna.\n\nIn 2012, the National Database and Registration Authority (NADRA) indicated that the contemporary Buddhist population of Pakistan was minuscule with 1,492 adult holders of national identity cards (CNICs). The total population of Buddhists is therefore unlikely to be more than a few thousand. In 2017, number of Buddhist voters was stated to be 1,884 and they are mostly concentrated in Sindh and Punjab.\n\nThe only functional Buddhist temple in Pakistan is in the Diplomatic Enclave at Islamabad, used by Buddhist diplomats from countries like Sri Lanka.\n\nBuddhism came to this part of the country in the late 7th century when most of the masses were practicing bon religion. \nBefore the arrival of Islam, Tibetan Buddhism and Bön (to a lesser extent) were the main religions in Baltistan. Buddhism can be traced back to before the formation of the Tibetan Empire. The region has a number of surviving Buddhist archaeological sites. These include the Manthal Buddha Rock, a rock relief of the Buddha at the edge of the village (near Skardu) and the Sacred Rock of Hunza. Nearby are former sites of Buddhist shelters.\n\nBaltistan had Buddhist majority till the 15th century, before the arrival of Islam in this region. Since then most of the people converted to Islam, the presence of Buddhism in this region has now been limited to archeological sites, as the remaining Buddhists of this region moved east to ladakh where Buddhism is the majority religion.\n\nThe majority of people in Gandhara, present-day Southern Khyber Pakhtunkhwa province, were Buddhist. Gandhara was largely Mahayana Buddhist, but also a stronghold of Vajrayana Buddhism. The Swat Valley, known in antiquity as Uddiyana, was a kingdom tributary to Gandhara. There are many archaeological sites from the Buddhist era in Swat.\n\nThe Buddhist sage Padmasambhava is said to have been born in a village near the present day town of Chakdara in Lower Dir District, which was then a part of Oddiyana. Padmasambhava is known as Guru Rinpoche in Tibetan and it is he who introduced Vajrayana Buddhism in Tibet.\n\nBuddhism was practiced in the Punjab region, with many Buddhist monastery and stupa sites in the Taxila World Heritage Site locale. It was also practiced in the Sindh regions.\n\nBuddhist sites in Sindh are numerous but ill preserved and various stages of deterioration. Sites at Brahmanabad (Mansura Sanghar district, Buddhist stupa at mohen jo daro, Sirah-ji-takri near Rohri, Sukkur, Kahu Jo Daro at Mirpur Khas, Nawabshah, Sudheran jo Thul near Hyderabad, Thul Mir Rukan stupa near Moro Many terracota tiles from Kaho jo Daro and Buddha statues are exhibited in Chatrapati Shivaji museum, Mumbai.\n\nChinese Buddhist traveller Hiuen Tsang reported many Buddhist temples in coastal regions of Makran, Balochistan. The remains of Buddhist cave city called Godrani Caves can still be seen today.\n\nThe presence of Pakistani Buddhists in modern pakistan is unclear, although a few Pakistanis have reported themselves as Buddhist. A report mentions that they are only found in the so called Azad Kashmir region. The Nurbakhshi sect is said to retain some elements of Buddhism. Another report mentions a nomadic Baori (Bawariya) tribe on the outskirts of Mandi Yazman and Rahimyar Khan as being Buddhist.\n\nTridev Roy, the Chakma chief, supported Pakistan during the 1971 Bangladesh Liberation War left the Chittagong region and settled in Pakistan. He claimed to represent the Buddhists of Pakistan by founding and chairing the \"Pakistan Buddhist Society\" from 1996 until his death in 2012. His family stayed behind in Bangladesh.\n\nGandhara remained a largely Hindu-Buddhist land until around 10th century CE, when Sultan Mahmud conquered the region and introduced Islam. There was settlement of Muslims and the emigration of Hindu-Buddhists.\n\nMost Buddhists in Punjab, Khyber Pakhtunkhwa and Sindh were in process of converting to Hinduism from 600 CE onwards. Many Buddhists converted to Islam.. Buddhism was practiced by the majority of the population of Sindh up to the Arab conquest by the Umayyad Caliphate in 710 CE. These regions became predominantly Muslim during the rule of Delhi Sultanate and later the Mughal Empire due to the missionary Sufi saints whose dargahs (shrines) dot the landscape of Pakistan and the rest of South Asia.\n\nThe Swat Valley in Pakistan has many Buddhist carvings and stupas, and Jehanabad contains a Seated Buddha statue. Kushan era Buddhist stupas and statues in Swat valley were demolished by the Taliban and after two attempts by the Taliban, the Jehanabad Buddha's face was dynamited. Only the Bamiyan Buddhas were larger than the carved giant Buddha statue in Swat near Mangalore which the Taliban attacked. The government did nothing to safeguard the statue after the initial attempt at destroying it, which did not cause permanent harm, but when the second attack took place on the statue the feet, shoulders, and face were demolished. Islamists such as the Taliban and looters destroyed much of Pakistan's Buddhist artifacts left over from the Buddhist Gandhara civilization, especially in Swat Valley. The Taliban deliberately targeted Gandhara Buddhist relics for destruction. The Christian Archbishop of Lahore Lawrence John Saldanha wrote a letter to Pakistan's government denouncing the Taliban activities in Swat Valley including their destruction of Buddha statues and their attacks on Christians, Sikhs, and Hindus. Gandhara Buddhist artifacts were also looted by smugglers. A group of Italians helped repair the Buddha at Jahan Abad, Swat.\n\nIn March 2013, a group of around 20 Buddhist monks from South Korea made the journey to the monastery of Takht-e-Bahi, 170 kilometres (106 miles) from Islamabad. The monks defied appeals from Seoul to abandon their trip for safety reasons and were guarded by Pakistani security forces on their visit to the monastery, built of ochre-coloured stone and nestled on a mountainside. From around 1,000 years BC until the seventh century AD, northern Pakistan and parts of modern Afghanistan formed the Gandhara kingdom, where Greek and Buddhist customs mixed to create what became the Mahayana strand of the religion. The monk Marananta set out from what is now northwest Pakistan to cross China and spread Buddhism on the Korean peninsula during the fourth century. The authorities are even planning package tours for visitors from China, Japan, Singapore and South Korea, including trips to the Buddhist sites at Takht-e-Bahi, Swat, Peshawar and Taxila, near Islamabad.\n\nTakht means “throne” and bahi, “water” or “spring” in Persian/Urdu. The monastic complex was called Takht-i-Bahi because it was built atop a hill and also adjacent to a stream. Located 80 kilometers from Peshawar and 16 kilometers Northwest of the city of Mardan, Takht-I-Bahi was unearthed in early 20th century and in 1980 it was included in the UNESCO World Heritage list as the largest Buddhist remains in Gandhara, along with the Sahr-i-Bahlol urban remains that date back to the same period, located about a kilometer south.\n\nThe modern town of Taxila is 35 km from Islamabad. Most of the archaeological sites of Taxila (600 BC to 500 AD) are located around Taxila Museum. For over one thousand years, Taxila remained famous as a centre of learning Gandhara art of sculpture, architecture, education and Buddhism in the days of Buddhist glory. There are over 50 archaeological sites scattered in a radius of 30 km around Taxila. Some of the most important sites are: Dhamarajika Stupa and Monastery (300 BC - 200 AD), Bhir Mound (600-200 BC), Sirkap (200 BC - 600 AD), Jandial Temple (c.250 BC) and Jaulian Monastery (200 - 600 AD).\n\nA museum comprising various sections with rich archaeological finds of Taxila, arranged in chronological order and properly labeled, has been established close to the site.\n\nMingora, 3 km away from Saidu Sharif, has yielded magnificent pieces of Buddhist sculpture and the ruins of a great stupa. Shingardar Stupa is one of the famous located near Bariko Other stupas like Amaan Kot and Jehan-a-Abad are too a great asset.\n\nThe Lush-green valley of Swat District—with its rushing torrents, icy-cold lakes, fruit-laden orchards and flower-decked slopes—is ideal for holiday-makers intent on relaxation. It also has a rich historical past: \"Udayana\" (the \"Garden\") of the ancient Hindu epics; \"the land of enthralling beauty\", where Alexander of Macedonia fought and won some of his major battles before crossing over to the plains of Pakistan, and \"the valley of the hanging chains\" described by the famous Chinese pilgrim-chroniclers, Faxian and Xuanzang in the fifth and seventh centuries. Swat was once a cradle for major strands of Buddhism, where 1,400 monasteries flourished: Little Vehicle, Great Vehicle and the Esoteric sects. It was the home of the famous Gandhara School of Sculpture which was an expression of Graeco-Roman form in the local Buddhist tradition.\n\nHowever, the ruins of great Buddhist stupas, monasteries and statues are found all over Swat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25837909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25837909", "title": "Buddhism in Russia", "text": "Buddhism in Russia\n\nHistorically, Buddhism was incorporated into Russian lands in the early 17th century. Buddhism is considered as one of Russia's traditional religions, legally a part of Russian historical heritage. Besides the historical monastic traditions of Buryatia, Kalmykia and Tuva, Buddhism is now widespread all over Russia, with many ethnic Russian converts.\n\nThe main form of Buddhism in Russia is the Gelukpa school of Tibetan Buddhism, informally known as the \"yellow hat\" tradition, with other Tibetan and non-Tibetan schools as minorities. Although Tibetan Buddhism is most often associated with Tibet, it spread into Mongolia, and via Mongolia into Russia.\n\nDatsan Gunzechoinei in Saint Petersburg, the northernmost Buddhist temple in Russia\n\nThe first evidence of the existence of Buddhism in the territory of modern Russia belong to the 8th century AD. E. And are associated with the state of Balhae, which in 698-926 occupied part of today's Primorye and Amur. The Mohe, whose culture was greatly influenced by neighboring China, Korea and Manchuria, professed the Buddhism of one of the Mahayana directions.\nIt primarily spread into the Russian constituent regions geographically or culturally adjacent to Mongolia, or inhabited by Mongolian ethnic groups: Buryatia, Zabaykalsky Krai, Tuva, and Kalmykia, the latter being the only Buddhist region in Europe, located to the north of the Caucasus. By 1887, there were already 29 publishing houses and numerous datsans. After the Russian Revolution, the datsans were closed down. By the 1930s, Buddhists were suffering more than any other religious community in the Soviet Union with lamas being expelled and accused of being \"Japanese spies\" and \"the people's enemies\".\n\nAfter the fall of the Soviet Union, a Buddhist revival began in Kalmykia with the election of President Kirsan Ilyumzhinov. It was also revived in Buryatia and Tuva and began to spread to Russians in other regions.\n\nIn 1992, the Dalai Lama made his first visit to Tuva in Russia.\n\nThere are several Tibetan Buddhist university-monasteries throughout Russia, concentrated in Siberia, known as Datsans.\n\nFyodor Shcherbatskoy, a renowned Russian Indologist who traveled to India and Mongolia during the time of the Russian Empire, is widely considered by many to be responsible for laying the foundations for the study of Buddhism in the Western world.\n\nThere are now between 700,000 and 1.5 million Buddhists in Russia, mainly in the republics of Buryatia, Kalmykia and Tuva.\n\nIn 2012 it was the religion of 62% of the total population of Tuva, 38% of Kalmykia and 20% of Buryatia. Buddhism also has believers accounting for 6% in Zabaykalsky Krai, primarily consisting in ethnic Buryats, and of 0.5% to 0.9% in Tomsk Oblast and Yakutia. Buddhist communities may be found in other federal subjects of Russia, between 0.1% and 0.5% in Sakhalin Oblast, Khabarovsk Krai, Amur Oblast, Irkutsk Oblast, Altay, Khakassia, Novosibirsk Oblast, Tomsk Oblast, Tyumen Oblast, Orenburg Oblast, Arkhangelsk Oblast, Murmansk Oblast, Moscow and Moscow Oblast, Saint Petersburg and Leningrad Oblast, and in Kaliningrad Oblast. In cities like Moscow, Saint Petersburg and Samara, often up to 1% of the population identify as Buddhists.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39191251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39191251", "title": "Buddhist Broadcasting Foundation", "text": "Buddhist Broadcasting Foundation\n\nThe Buddhist Broadcasting Foundation is a religious broadcasting organization based in the Netherlands.\n\nIt produces and broadcasts a variety of programs on topics of Buddhism and Zen Buddhism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10761758", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10761758", "title": "Church of Scientology Moscow v. Russia", "text": "Church of Scientology Moscow v. Russia\n\nThe Church of Scientology Moscow v Russia [2007] ECHR 258 is a European Court of Human Rights case, concerning Article 11 of the Convention. In the case the European Court of Human Rights in Strasbourg condemned Moscow City Government's refusal to consider the Church of Scientology of Moscow for registration as a religious organisation, and as a result found that Russia had violated the rights of the Church of Scientology under Articles 11 (the right to freedom of association) when \"read in the light of Article 9\" (the right to freedom of religion). Specifically, the Court determined that, in denying consideration of registration to the Church of Scientology of Moscow, the Moscow authorities \"did not act in good faith and neglected their duty of neutrality and impartiality vis-à-vis the applicant's religious community\". The Court also awarded the Church €10,000 in respect of non-pecuniary damage and €15,000 for costs and expenses.\n\nThe Church of Scientology of Moscow describes itself as a religious association and was officially registered as such in January 1994. On 1 October 1997, a new \"Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Associations (Religion Law)\" entered into force, requiring all religious associations previously granted the status of a legal entity to bring their articles of association into conformity with the Religion Law and to re-apply for registration with the competent Justice Department before 31 December 2000. Failure to obtain \"re-registration\" before the expiration of that time limit exposed the Church to the threat of dissolution by judicial decision.\n\nThe Church of Scientology of Moscow subsequently applied eleven times for re-registration to the Moscow Justice Department between August 1998 and May 2005. Each application was rejected. The first two applications were refused on the grounds that the Church had violated unspecified laws. The third to fifth applications were refused on the grounds that the Church had failed to submit unspecified documents. The sixth to tenth applications were refused on the grounds that the Church had failed to comply with the time limit for re-registration, although the Constitutional Court had already held that this reason was not valid. Finally, the eleventh application was refused on the ground that the Church had failed to prove its existence in Moscow for at least 15 years, although the Constitutional Court had already held that this reason was not valid.\n\nThe refusal to re-register the Moscow Church under the Religion Law placed its status as a legal entity in jeopardy. The consequences of non-registration as a religious organization within the meaning of the Law were extreme for the Church and its members. As a result of the arbitrary refusal to re-register, the rights of the Church and its parishioners essential to the conduct of their religious activities on anything but the most primitive level were seriously jeopardized, including the ability to own and operate educational institutions including theological schools, to own and maintain religious buildings, to conduct charitable activities, the right to acquire, import and distribute religious literature and the right to invite foreign citizens to preach and conduct religious services.\n\nAs a result of a complaint filed by the Church, the Nikulinskiy District Court of Moscow found, on 8 December 2000, that the Justice’s Department refusal to re-register the Church was unlawful. It concluded that the Justice Department had, in essence, used subterfuge to avoid re-registration of the Church and pointed out that an association with no status as a legal entity was, in particular, prevented from renting premises for religious ceremonies and worship, receiving and disseminating religious literature or holding a bank account. It also held that that refusal had been inconsistent with international standards of law. That decision became binding and enforceable on 19 December 2000. However, the Justice Department refused to comply with it and, in March 2001, it was quashed by way of supervisory review by the government. Subsequently, the Russian courts upheld the systematic refusal to register the Moscow Church. The Church then filed an application with the European Court in 2002.\n\nIn its decision overturning the refusal by Russian authorities to re-register the Church, the Human Rights Court determined that the Church of Scientology of Moscow was a \"religious community\" entitled to the rights afforded such communities by ECHR Article 9, which protects the right to freedom of religion or belief. The Court held that where the organization of a religious community is at issue, \"a refusal to recognize it\" not only constitutes interference with its right to freedom of association protected by ECHR Article 11. It also constitutes interference with the applicants' right to freedom of religion under Article 9 of the Convention. The Court noted that \"the believers' right to freedom of religion encompasses the expectation that the community will be allowed to function peacefully, free from arbitrary State intervention\". Therefore, the Court determined that the failure to recognize the Church of Scientology through rejection of registration offended these fundamental religious freedom and association rights.\n\nThis expansive approach is consistent with the Court’s application of a fundamental human rights policy of the Council of Europe to religious freedom issues – \"the need to secure true religious pluralism, an inherent feature of the notion of a democratic society\". Similarly, the Court has emphasized the importance of \"pluralism, tolerance and broadmindedness, without which there is no democratic society\". As the Court has stressed,\n\nThe Court then dismissed the government's claims that the refusal to register the Moscow Church of Scientology did not constitute a violation of the Church's fundamental human rights as it was not dissolved and could continue to operate. Instead, the Court applied its findings in \"Moscow Branch of The Salvation Army v. Russia\" case to find that the Moscow Church of Scientology was being prevented from exercising its full range of religious activities.\n\nLikewise, the Court found that the government's actions constituted an interference with the Church of Scientology's rights to freedom of association and religion.\n\nThe Court then concluded by stating that\n\nThis is not the first time that the Strasbourg organs have ruled in favor of Scientology. The Church of Scientology has previously been before the European Commission on Human Rights in a case that decided that a Church could represent its members to assert their religious rights under Article 9 (see \"X and Church of Scientology v. Sweden\" 16 DR 109 [Ecom HR 1979]). The Commission concluded that the Church of Scientology, as \"a Church body is capable of possessing and exercising the rights contained in Article 9(1) in its own capacity as a representative of its members.\"\n\nMoreover, on 9 June 2005, the European Court of Human Rights (First Section) issued an important admissibility decision concerning issues relating to the registration of two Scientology Churches as a religious organization under Russian national law. In that case, \"Kimlya, Aidar Sultanov and Church of Scientology of Nizhnekamsk vs Russia\" (Application nos. 76836/01 and 32782/03), the Court considered separate applications regarding the refusal of Russian authorities to register Scientology Churches as religious organizations filed by founding members of two Churches of Scientology, the Church of Scientology of Surgut City in the Khanty-Mansi Autonomous Region of the Russian Federation, and the Church of Scientology of Nizhnekamsk in the Tatarstan Republic of the Russian Federation.\n\nIn its admissibility decision, the European Court of Human Rights determined, after examining extensive submissions and arguments by the parties, that the founding members' and the Church's complaint regarding the refusal of Russian authorities to re-register it was admissible.\n\nIn September 2009, the European Court of Human Rights issued a binding ruling in favor of the Scientology branches in Surgut and Nizhnekamsk. The two organizations were awarded €20,000 in costs and damages. The ruling, which cannot be appealed, said that Russia could not ban the Church of Scientology simply because it did not have a long history in the country.\n\nThe Scientology Working Group of the City of Hamburg posted comments on the city's website, in English, containing its assessment of the judgment and its implications.\n\nThe Working group commented, \"The ECHR itself did not consider whether the Scientology organisation as such meets the characteristics of a religion (or religious community) within the meaning of article 9 of the European Convention on Human Rights in terms of its structure and beliefs. The Court based its ruling merely on the specifically Russian and consequently national assessment of the 'Church of Scientology Moscow' being an association of a religious nature, without positively according the Scientology organisation as a whole the status of a religious community.\" The task force concluded that the ECHR did not grant the Church a \"positive entitlement\" to registration as a religious entity in Russia nor did it make a ruling on the religious nature of Scientology that would be binding on ECHR signatories other than Russia.\n\nIn view of the judgment the European Human Rights Office of the Church of Scientology International emphasized a \"need for dialogue\" with governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "1860542", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1860542", "title": "Covenant of the Goddess", "text": "Covenant of the Goddess\n\nThe Covenant of the Goddess (CoG) is a cross-traditional Wiccan group of solitary Wiccan practitioners and over one hundred affiliated covens (or congregations). It was founded in 1975 in order to increase co-operation among witches and to secure for witches and covens the legal protection enjoyed by members of other religions. Member covens generally focus theology and ritual around the worship of the Goddess and the Old Gods (or the Goddess alone), which is general practice within Wicca. The Covenant of the Goddess operates largely by consensus and maintains strict autonomy for all members.\n\nThe CoG began in 1975 when Wiccan elders of various traditions gathered to form an organization for all Witchcraft practitioners. At this meeting, they drafted a covenant and bylaws. That same year on the Summer Solstice, 13 covens ratified the bylaws. It was incorporated on Halloween (or Samhain) 1975, as a non-profit religious organization in California.\n\nAt each Sabbat the group publishes a newsletter. The newsletter is available free in electronic form on the CoG website. A hard copy subscription is also available for a nominal fee to cover production and mailing costs.\n\nCoG has been active in the modern Interfaith Movement. Representatives of Covenant of the Goddess attended the Parliament of the World's Religions in Chicago, Illinois, in 1993; Cape Town, South Africa, in 1999; and Barcelona, Spain, in 2004. Members of the Covenant are also active in the United Religions Initiative, the North American Interfaith Network and many other interfaith groups.\n\nCoG was involved in the campaign to have the Department of Veterans Affairs recognize the pentacle as suitable for headstone markers; see also Sgt. Patrick Stewart. On April 23, 2007, the VA added the pentacle to the list of emblems allowed in national cemeteries and on VA-issued headstones, markers, and plaques.\n\nThe group organizes and sponsors an annual festival called \"Merry Meet\", held in conjunction with the annual business meeting. Representatives from all the member Covens congregate and decide on relevant issues affecting the organization, and Wiccans in general. The business meeting is called the \"Grand Council\", and is run in a consensus format. There are also workshops, vendors and shopping. As is common with many Wiccan festivals, there are also community rituals and spiritual connections, which play a large part in the festival.\n\nThe group created and administers several religious emblem programs for youth and adults working with youth organizations such as the Boy Scouts of America and the Girl Scouts of the USA. The programs are \"Over the Moon\" for ages 8–11, \"Hart and Crescent\" for ages 12–18, and the Distinguished Youth Service Award for adults working with youth. Service to the Military and the greater Pagan and Heathen communities is also honored annually at the Merry Meet festival. Due to the scarcity of units chartered by Wiccan organizations the Boy Scouts of America has declined to recognize these programs. As a result, members cannot wear it officially on their uniform. For further information, see Religious emblems programs (Boy Scouts of America).\n\nThe group operates by a Code of Ethics, which all members (covens or solitary) are expected to understand and follow:\n\nMembership in the Covenant is open to covens and solitary practitioners (solitaires) that meet the requirements. Requirements include: subscribing to the Covenant's code of ethics, worship of the Goddess and the Old Gods, pledging to abide by the charter, bylaws and policy of the Council, and agreeing to \"hold harmless\" any committee or committee member of the Covenant. The Covenant is a confederation of member covens and solitaires. An annual Grand Council is held to make decisions for the whole organization, and members also cooperate in local councils which have at least three covens. Decisions at all levels are made by a formal consensus process.\n\nThe Covenant recognizes two levels of clergy: priest or priestess and high priest or high priestess. In addition, the Covenant solemnizes the lifelong relationships of members in \"handfasting\" ceremonies. Handfasting is not limited to traditional marriages, as any number of people regardless of gender may commit themselves to a lifelong relationship.\n\n"}
{"id": "2185499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2185499", "title": "Diocesan administrator", "text": "Diocesan administrator\n\nA diocesan administrator is a provisional ordinary of a Roman Catholic particular church.\n\nThe college of consultors elects an administrator within eight days after the see is known to be vacant. The college must elect as administrator a priest or bishop at least 35 years old. If the college of consultors fails to elect a priest of the required minimum age within the time allotted, the choice of diocesan administrator passes to the metropolitan archbishop or, if the metropolitan see is vacant, to the senior by appointment of the suffragan bishops of the ecclesiastical province.\n\nIf a diocese has a coadjutor bishop, the coadjutor succeeds immediately to the episcopal see upon the previous bishop's death or resignation, and there is no vacancy of the see. The see also does not become vacant if the Pope appoints an apostolic administrator.\n\nBefore the election of the diocesan administrator of a vacant see, the governance of the see is entrusted, with the powers of a vicar general, to the auxiliary bishop, if there is one, or to the senior among them, if there are several, otherwise to the college of consultors as a whole. The diocesan administrator has greater powers, essentially those of a bishop except for matters excepted by the nature of the matter or expressly by law. Canon law subjects his activity to various legal restrictions and to special supervision by the college of consultors (as for example canons 272 and 485). The diocesan administrator remains in charge until a new bishop takes possession of the see or until he presents his resignation to the college of consultors.\n\nSome Bishops ruled more than one bishopric for long. In any beside their primary bishopric, they would have to be called an \"administrator\". Nevertheless, in local tradition often they are called bishops in all their bishoprics.\n\nAn episcopal conference can transfer the functions of the consultors to the cathedral chapter. In those countries in which the episcopal conference has transferred the functions, the cathedral chapter, and not the consultors, elect the diocesan administrator. Capitular election was the default rule before the adoption of the 1983 Code of Canon Law; this old default rule is reflected in the term for the equivalent of a diocesan administrator in the 1917 code: vicar capitular.\n\nSince the Investiture Controversy in 11th and 12th centuries the cathedral chapters used to elect the Catholic bishops in the Holy Roman Empire. Prince-bishoprics were elective monarchies of imperial immediacy within the Empire, with the monarch being the respective bishop usually elected by the chapter and confirmed by the Holy See, or exceptionally only appointed by the Holy See. Papally confirmed bishops were then invested by the emperor with the princely regalia, thus the title prince-bishop. However, sometimes the respective incumbent of the see never gained a papal confirmation, but was still invested with the princely power. Also the opposite occurred with a papally confirmed bishop, never invested as prince.\n\nCandidates elected, who lacked canon-law prerequisites and/or papal confirmation, would officially only hold the title diocesan administrator (but nevertheless colloquially be referred to as prince-bishop). This was the case with Catholic candidates, who were elected for an episcopal see with its revenues as a mere appanage and with all Protestant candidates, who all lacked either the necessary vocational training or the papal confirmation.\n\nWith many capitulars converting to Lutheranism or Calvinism during the Reformation, the majorities in many chapters consisted of Protestant capitulars. So they then also elected Protestants as bishops, who usually were denied papal confirmation. However, in the early years of Reformation, with the schism not yet fully implemented, it was not always obvious, who tended to Protestantism, so that some candidates only turned out to be Protestants after they had been papally confirmed as bishop and imperially invested as prince. Later, when Protestants were usually denied papal confirmation, the emperors nevertheless invested the unconfirmed candidates as princes - by a so-called liege indult () - due to political coalitions and conflicts within the empire, in order to gain candidates as imperial partisans.\n\nMany Protestant candidates, elected by the capitulars, neither achieved papal confirmation nor a liege indult, but nevertheless, as a matter of fact held de facto princely power. This was because the emperor would have to use force to bar the candidates from ruling, with the emperors lacking the respective power or pursuing other goals. A similar situation was in a number of imperially immediate abbeys with their prince-abbots and princess-abbesses. \nUnconfirmed incumbents of the sees were called \"Elected Bishops\" or \"Elected Archbishops\". The information that Protestant clerical rulers would generally have been called administrators, as written in several encyclopedies, does not fit historically documented practice. In their dioceses as well as in their territories, they had almost the same power as Catholic prince-bishops. However, one common restriction was that administered prince-bishoprics were denied to emit their deputees to the diets of the Empire or of the imperial circles (, respectively). This restriction was abandoned by the Peace of Westphalia in 1648, when the emperor accepted Protestant administrators as fully empowered rulers. However, the Peace also secularised many of the prior Protestant prince-bishoprics and transformed them into hereditary monarchies.\n\nPrince-bishoprics, which were ruled by Protestants, were the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27752896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27752896", "title": "Fellow Student", "text": "Fellow Student\n\nFellow Student (Hebrew: תלמיד חבר) was a Talmudist epithet commonly used to describe the interim status of a disciple between the status of being merely a disciple of a teacher Rabbi and being practically equal in status. In many cases, a Fellow Student didn't fall short of his Rabbi, however he continues to perceive his teacher Rabbi above him and continues to learn from him. The term was commonly used in the Talmud times, however, the usage was continued throughout the Middle Ages and in latter times.\n"}
{"id": "16144234", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16144234", "title": "Freedom of religion in Uzbekistan", "text": "Freedom of religion in Uzbekistan\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion and for the principle of separation of church and state; however, the Government continued to restrict these rights in practice. The Government permits the operation of what it considers mainstream religious groups, including approved Muslim groups, Jewish groups, the Russian Orthodox Church, and various other Christian denominations, such as Roman Catholics, Lutherans, and Baptists. Uzbek society generally tolerates Christian churches as long as they do not attempt to win converts among ethnic Uzbeks; the law prohibits or severely restricts activities such as proselytizing, importing and disseminating religious literature, and offering private religious instruction.\n\nThe status of religious freedom remained restricted with a specific decline for some Pentecostal and other Christian groups during the period of this report. A number of minority religious groups, including congregations of some Christian denominations, continued to operate without registration because they had not satisfied the strict registration requirements set out by the law. As in previous periods, Protestant groups with ethnic Uzbek members reported operating in a climate of harassment and fear. Using new criminal statutes enacted in 2006, the Government brought criminal charges against two pastors. One was sentenced to 4 years in a labor camp; the other received a suspended sentence and probation. Law enforcement officials raided and harassed some unregistered groups, detaining and fining their leaders and members. The Government continued its campaign against unauthorized Islamic groups suspected of extremist sentiments or activities, arresting numerous alleged members of these groups and sentencing them to lengthy jail terms. Many of these were suspected members of Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT), a banned extremist Islamic political movement, the banned Islamic group Akromiya (Akromiylar), or unspecified \"Wahhabi\" groups. The Government generally did not interfere with worshippers attending sanctioned mosques and granted approvals for new Islamic print, audio, and video materials. A small number of \"underground\" mosques operated under the close scrutiny of religious authorities and the security services.\n\nReligious groups enjoyed generally tolerant relations; however, neighbors, family, and employers often continued to pressure ethnic Uzbek Christians, especially recent converts and residents of smaller communities. There were several reports of sermons against missionaries and persons who converted from Islam. A Pentecostal deacon was severely beaten after his church was prominently featured in a documentary on state television directed against Christian evangelicals. Unlike in previous periods, there was only one report of individuals being charged with the distribution of HT leaflets, which often contain strong anti-Semitic rhetoric, during the period of this report.\n\nThe country has an area of and an estimated population of 27.8 million. International experts believe the population has sustained a loss of 2 to 3 million in recent years due to the growing trend of labor migration from Uzbekistan to neighboring countries, Russia, South Korea, and the Middle East. Approximately 80 percent of the population is ethnic Uzbek; 5.5 percent Russian; 5 percent Tajik; 3 percent Kazakh; 2.5 percent Karakalpak; and 1.5 percent Tatar. There are no official statistics on membership in various religious groups; however, it is estimated that up to 90 percent of the population is nominally Sunni Muslim, of the Hanafi school. Shi'a Muslims, who are concentrated in the provinces of Bukhara and Samarkand, constitute an estimated 1 percent of the population. Approximately 5 percent of the population is Russian Orthodox, a percentage that declines as the number of ethnic Russians and other Slavs continue to emigrate. A growing number of Muslims and Russian Orthodox adherents actively practice their religion. Outside of Tashkent, practicing Muslims are now in the majority. During the period covered by this report, mosque attendance noticeably increased, particularly among younger men, who tend to constitute the majority of worshippers. The remaining 3 percent of the population includes small communities of Roman Catholics, Korean Christians, Baptists, Lutherans, Seventh-day Adventists, evangelical and Pentecostal Christians, Jehovah's Witnesses, Zoroastrians, Buddhists, Baha'is, and Hare Krishnas, as well as atheists. In addition, an estimated 15,000 to 20,000 Ashkenazi and Bukharan Jews remain in the country, concentrated in the cities of Tashkent, Bukhara, and Samarkand. At least 80,000 others have emigrated to Israel and the United States over the past two decades.\n\nThe Constitution provides for freedom of religion; however, the Government and laws restricted these rights in practice. The Constitution also establishes the principle of separation of church and state. The Government prohibits religious groups from forming political parties and social movements.\n\nThe Law on Freedom of Conscience and Religious Organizations (1998 Religion Law) provides for freedom of worship, freedom from religious persecution, separation of church and state, and the right to establish schools and train clergy; however, the law grants those rights only to registered groups. It also restricts religious rights that are judged to be in conflict with national security, prohibits proselytizing, bans religious subjects in public schools, prohibits the private teaching of religious principles, and requires religious groups to obtain a license to publish or distribute materials. The Committee on Religious Affairs (CRA), an agency accountable to the Cabinet of Ministers, must approve all religious literature.\n\nThe 1998 Religion Law requires all religious groups and congregations to register, and provides strict and burdensome criteria for their registration. Among its requirements, the law stipulates that each group must present a list of at least one hundred citizen members to the local branch of the Ministry of Justice (MOJ). This provision enables the Government to ban any group by finding technical grounds for denying its registration petition. The CRA oversees registered religious activity. New mosques continued to face difficulties gaining registration, as did those closed previously that reapplied.\n\nThe law prohibits religious groups from training religious personnel if they do not have a registered central administrative body. Registration of a central body requires registered religious groups in 8 of the country's 13 provinces, an impossible requirement for most religious groups. There are six such entities that may legally train religious personnel. The law limits religious instruction to officially sanctioned religious schools and state-approved instructors. The law permits no private instruction and provides for fines for violations. The law prohibits the teaching of religious subjects in public schools.\n\nArticle 14 of the Religion Law prohibits the wearing of \"cult robes\" (religious clothing) in public places by all except \"those serving in religious organizations.\"\n\nThe Criminal and Civil Codes contain stiff penalties for violating the Religion Law and other statutes on religious activities. In addition to the prohibited activities that include organizing an illegal religious group, the law also proscribes persuading others to join such a group and drawing minors into a religious organization without the permission of their parents. Any religious service conducted by an unregistered religious organization is illegal.\n\nThe Criminal Code formally distinguishes between \"illegal\" groups, which are those that are not registered properly, and \"prohibited\" groups, such as the extremist Islamist political party Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT), Tabligh Jamoat, and other groups branded with the general term \"Wahhabi\" that are banned altogether. The code makes it a criminal offense, punishable by up to 5 years in prison, to organize an illegal religious group or to resume the activities of such a group after it has been denied registration or ordered to disband. In addition, the code punishes participation in such a group with up to 3 years in prison. The code also provides penalties of up to 20 years in prison (if the crime results in \"grave consequences\") for \"organizing or participating\" in the activities of religious extremist, fundamentalist, separatist, or other prohibited groups. In the past, courts often ignored the distinction between illegal and prohibited groups, and frequently convicted members of unapproved Muslim groups under both statutes. There were no reports of such practices during the reporting period.\n\nThe main laws under which authorities charge citizens for religious activity are article 159 (anti constitutional activity); article 216 (illegal establishment of public associations or religious organizations); article 216, section 2 (violation of legislation on religious organizations, including proselytism); article 244, section 1 (production and distribution of materials that create a threat to public security and public order); and article 244, section 2 (establishment, direction of, or participation in religious extremist, separatist, fundamentalist, or other banned organizations) of the Criminal Code. Citizens charged under these sections (particularly article 244, Section 2) are frequently charged with being members of HT.\n\nDecember 2005 amendments to both the Criminal Code (article 217 Part 2) and Administrative Code (article 201) increased fines for repeated offenses of violations of the law on religious activity, raising them to 200 to 300 times the minimum monthly wage of $10 (12,420 soum) under the Criminal Code and 50 to 100 times the minimum wage under the Administrative Code.\n\nJune 2006 amendments to the Administrative Code punish \"illegal production, storage, import or distribution of materials of religious content\" with a fine of 20 to 100 times the minimum monthly wage for individuals, or 50 to 100 times the minimum monthly wage for officials of organizations, together with confiscation of the materials and the \"corresponding means of producing and distributing them.\" Criminal Code article 244-3 addresses the same offense, punishing those already convicted under the corresponding article of the Administrative Code with a fine of 100 to 200 times the minimum monthly wage, or corrective labor of up to 3 years. Other changes introduced simultaneously to the Criminal and Administrative Codes punish the production and distribution of \"literature promoting racial and religious hatred.\"\n\nAlthough the law treats all registered religious denominations equally, the Government funds an Islamic university and the preservation of Islamic historic sites. In 2007, to mark Tashkent's designation as one of four Capitals of Islamic Culture by the Islamic Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (ISESCO), the Government funded a major expansion of the Muslim Board of Uzbekistan (Muftiate) offices and a large new mosque and library in the complex. The Government provided logistical support for 5,000 selected Muslims to participate in the Hajj, an increase from 4,200 the previous year, but the pilgrims paid their own expenses. The Government controls the Muftiate, which in turn controls the Islamic hierarchy, the content of imams' sermons, and the volume and substance of published Islamic materials. The Kurbon Hayit and Roza Hayit Islamic holy days are observed as national holidays.\n\nThe Government still did not implement any of the recommendations of a 2003 Organization for Security and Cooperation in Europe (OSCE) Office for Democratic Institutions and Human Rights (ODIHR) expert panel that reviewed the 1998 Religion Law and associated statutes and concluded that they were in violation of the international norms for religious freedom. The OSCE recommended lifting the bans on proselytizing and private religious instruction and decriminalizing activities of unregistered religious organizations.\n\nThere were significant governmental restrictions on religious freedom during the period covered by this report. The Government, by continuing to deny registration to some religious groups and by deregistering others, deprived them of their legal right to worship. The Government restricted many religious practices and activities, punishing some citizens because they engaged in religious practices in violation of the registration laws.\n\nWhile somewhat supportive of moderate Muslims, the Government, citing national security concerns, bans Islamic organizations it deems extremist and criminalizes membership in them. Chief among the banned organizations are Hizb ut-Tahrir (HT), the Islamic Movement of Uzbekistan (IMU), Akromiya, Tabligh Jamoat, and various groups the Government broadly labeled Wahhabi. The Government states that it does not consider repression of persons or groups suspected of extremism to be a matter of religious freedom, but rather of preventing armed resistance to the Government.\n\nHT is an extremist Islamist political organization that promotes hate and praises acts of terrorism, while maintaining that it is committed to nonviolence. The party's virulently anti-Semitic and anti-Western literature and websites call for the overthrow of secular governments, including those in Central Asia, to be replaced with a worldwide Islamic government referred to as the Caliphate. Because HT is primarily a political organization, albeit one motivated by religious ideology, and because it does not condemn terrorist acts by other groups, authorities' actions to restrict HT and prosecute its members are not a restriction on religious freedom per se. Nor are restrictions on the IMU, a group of Namangan origin on the U.S. list of international terrorist organizations and believed to be responsible for a series of fatal bombings in the country in 1999 and 2004. Religious freedom concerns arise when innocent persons are accused of membership in these groups based solely on their religious beliefs or practice and convicted without due process.\n\nThe Government has repressed and prosecuted members of Akromiya (Akromiylar) since 1997. Religious experts claim that Akromiya is an informal association that promotes business along Islamic religious principles, while the Government claims that the group is a branch of HT and that it attempted, together with the IMU, to overthrow the Government through armed rebellion in Andijon in May 2005.\n\nTabligh Jamoat is an Islamic missionary group with origins in South Asia whose worship, dress, and grooming practices are based on practices from the time of Muhammad; its members claim to be exclusively religious and apolitical.\n\nOther banned groups include alleged \"Wahhabists,\" a term used loosely in the country for any conservative Muslims. In particular the Government uses \"Wahhabist\" to describe Muslims who worship outside state-approved institutions, who were educated at madrassahs abroad, or those followers of either Imam Abduvali Mirzaev of Andijon, who disappeared in 1995, or Imam Abidkhan Nazarov of Tashkent, who fled to Kazakhstan in 1998 to avoid arrest and was granted refugee status by the United Nations High Commissioner for Refugees on March 15, 2006.\n\nIn previous reporting periods, sources claimed that authorities required imams of registered mosques to submit lists of individuals in their congregations who may have extremist tendencies. There were no such reports in this reporting period, but there were reports that the Government instructed some mahalla (neighborhood) committees and imams to identify local residents who could potentially become involved in extremist activity or groups, including those who prayed daily or otherwise demonstrated active devotion. The Government controls the content of imams' sermons and the volume and substance of published Islamic materials.\n\nThe Government's harsh treatment of suspected religious extremists has discouraged many religious believers from showing outward expressions of religious piety. Following the May 2005 violence in Andijon, authorities arrested many Andijon-area residents on charges of religious extremism. In this reporting period, there were also credible accounts of mahalla committee chairmen actively discouraging residents from worshipping in mosques. Forum 18 News Service also reported in November 2006 that authorities distributed instructions to imams about the undesirability of children attending mosques and that police on occasion prevented children from attending Friday prayers.\n\nMany sources reported that the atmosphere in the Muslim community has since improved, however, with many mosques overflowing into the streets for lack of space during Friday prayer. The Government has loosened its grip on observant Muslims, allowing individuals to practice their faith within a controlled environment. Nevertheless, there were accounts of law enforcement and national security officers actively monitoring and reporting on mosque activities and those of worshippers. There were also reports that local officials in Tashkent conducted a series of meetings with mahalla leaders to discourage Islamist tendencies. At these meetings officials allegedly called on families to discourage their sons from attending mosque and their daughters from wearing the hijab and also instructed neighborhood leaders to discourage the performance of traditional Islamic wedding ceremonies. The Government limited the number of Hajj pilgrims to 5,000, or approximately 20 percent of the country's total possible number of pilgrims (estimated at approximately 25,000 pilgrims or 1,000 pilgrims for every 1 million of population). Potential pilgrims were reportedly approved by local Mahalla committees, district administrations, the National Security Service, and the state-run Hajj Commission.\n\nMany in the Government expressed suspicion of the Jehovah's Witnesses, viewing it as an extremist group. Internal police training documents continue to list the Jehovah's Witnesses, along with the IMU and HT, as security threats. Local officials and representatives of the religious establishment continued to express apprehension about the group's missionary activities. On November 30 and December 1, 2006, state television broadcast a documentary entitled \"Hypocrisy\" that linked Jehovah's Witnesses with the Japanese cult Aum Shinrikyo.\n\nSome mosques continued to have difficulty registering. Forum 18 reported in 2003 that the Panjera Mosque in Namangan, where approximately 500 persons used to meet for prayer on feast days, was closed by authorities in 1998 and tried unsuccessfully for several years to register. Several mosques in the southern and eastern Ferghana Valley, which had reported similar registration problems in past years, remained unregistered despite having the required number of congregants to register. Worshipers of the locally funded Tuman Mosque in Akhunbabayev District of Ferghana continued to function after court-enforced registration in early 2004. A small number of unofficial, independent mosques are allowed to operate quietly under the watch of official imams.\n\nThe Jehovah's Witnesses applied for registration at local, regional, and national levels and either received a denial or no official answer during the period covered by this report. Other churches remained unregistered after unsuccessful efforts in past years to register. These included Bethany Baptist Church in the Mirzo-Ulugbek District of Tashkent, the Pentecostal Church in Chirchik, Greater Grace Christian Church in Samarkand, and Emmanuel Church of Nukus, Karakalpakstan. Despite a number of international appeals and formal legal appeals in past reporting periods, the Mir (Peace) Church of Nukus, the Hushkhabar Church in Guliston, the Pentecostal Church in Andijon, and the Baptist Church in Gazalkent also remained unregistered.\n\nApproximately 20 Protestant churches previously operated in Karakalpakstan; however, it was unknown how many of these were still active. No Baptist church has successfully registered since 1999. Out of the 11 Jehovah's Witnesses groups in the country, only 1, in Chirchik, was registered at the end of the reporting period. On August 24, 2006, the Government canceled the registration status of the Jehovah's Witnesses' Ferghana congregation, citing several violations of the Religion Law, including proselytizing, inciting religious enmity, and holding meetings in a private home. The Jehovah's Witnesses appealed the decision, but remained unregistered at the end of the reporting period.\n\nAs of May 1, 2007, the Government had registered 2,227 religious congregations and organizations--an increase of 3 from 2,224 recorded in July 2006. Mosques, Muslim educational institutions, and Islamic centers comprised 2,046 of the total registered, an increase of 4. Among the Muslim groups were several Shi'a congregations. The number of registered Christian groups decreased by 1. The 181 registered minority religious groups included 58 Korean Christian, 36 Russian Orthodox, 23 Baptist, 21 Pentecostal (\"Full Gospel\"), 10 Seventh-day Adventist, 8 Jewish, 5 Roman Catholic, 6 Baha'i, 3 Lutheran, 4 \"New Apostolic,\" 2 Armenian Apostolic, 1 Jehovah's Witnesses, 1 Krishna Consciousness group, 1 Temple of Buddha, and 1 Christian \"Voice of God\" Church.\n\nDuring the reporting period, some churches, particularly evangelical churches with ethnic Uzbek members, did not apply for registration because they did not expect local officials to register them. Other groups, including those with too few members, reported that they preferred not to bring themselves to the attention of authorities by submitting a registration application that obviously would not meet legal requirements. Some groups also did not want to give the authorities a list of their members, especially ethnic Uzbeks, as they were harassed during previous attempts to register. A few groups refused on principle to seek registration because they challenge the Government's right to require registration.\n\nTo register, groups also must report in their charter a valid legal address. In this reporting period, local officials denied approval of legal addresses or did not answer such requests, thus preventing religious groups from registering. The MOJ also cited this requirement in explaining local officials' decisions. On May 11, 2007, the Sergely district administration in Tashkent denied approval of a legal address for Tashkent's Jehovah's Witnesses congregation. Over the course of this reporting period, Jehovah's Witnesses in Samarkand, Kagan (Bukhara Province), Jizzak and Angren also requested approval of legal addresses but received no response. On August 24, 2006, the Ferghana provincial Justice Department deregistered the Jehovah's Witnesses congregation partly for failing to register a change in their legal address. The Ferghana congregation explained to the authorities that they had purchased a new house and were in the process of registering the new address when their registration was revoked. Members of the congregation were also accused of proselytizing. On June 12, 2007, the Ferghana congregation again requested approval of a legal address, but their request was denied. Some groups, such as the Tashkent International Church, were reluctant to purchase property without assurance that their registration would be approved. Others claimed that local officials arbitrarily withhold approval of the addresses because they oppose the existence of Christian churches with ethnic Uzbek members.\n\nOther problems preventing registration in the past included claims of falsified congregation lists; problems certifying addresses; improper certification by fire inspectors, sanitation workers, and epidemiologists; grammatical errors in the Uzbek text of a group’s charter; and other technicalities.\n\nThe International Church of Tashkent, a Protestant nondenominational church that ministers exclusively to Tashkent's international community, cannot qualify for registration, as it does not meet the legal requirement of 100 citizen members. It holds services regularly, without obstruction, in an officially registered Baptist church.\n\nLocal authorities continued to pressure Baptist churches associated with the International Council of Churches of Evangelical Christians/Baptists, a denomination that rejects registration on principle, with demands to register their congregations.\n\nDue to the Government's policy against proselytizing, ethnic Russians, Jews, and non-Muslim foreigners enjoy greater religious freedom to choose and change their religion than Muslim ethnic groups, particularly ethnic Uzbeks. Most Christian churches can operate freely as long as they do not attempt to win converts among ethnic Uzbeks. Ethnic Uzbek Christians are often secretive about their faith and sometimes do not attempt to register their organizations due to fear of restrictive reprisals, such as observing to see if they are meeting without benefit of registration, which would lead to arrest under criminal charges. Christian congregations of mixed ethnic background often face difficulties, including rejection of registration or delays in response, or are reluctant to list their ethnic Uzbek members on registration lists for fear of incurring harassment by local officials.\n\nThe private teaching of religious principles and the teaching of religion to minors without parental consent is illegal. Only religious groups with a registered central office may legally provide religious instruction.\n\nThere are 11 madrassahs (including 2 for women), which provide secondary education including a full range of secular subjects. In addition, the Islamic Institute and Islamic University in Tashkent provide higher educational instruction. The Cabinet of Ministers considers diplomas granted by madrassahs equivalent to other diplomas, thus enabling graduates of those institutions to continue their education at the university level. The curriculum in the madrassahs and Islamic Institute is oriented towards those planning to become imams or religious teachers. This is not the case with the government-funded and established Islamic University, where students pursue religious studies from a secular perspective. While study at the Islamic University does not qualify graduates to practice as imams, some graduates of the university have been appointed imams after pursuing a standard sequence of study at a madrassah.\n\nApart from full-time study in these institutions, there is no officially sanctioned religious instruction for individuals interested in learning about Islam. An increasing number of imams informally offer religious education; although this is technically illegal, local authorities rarely took legal action. Two madrassahs in the populous and observantly Muslim Ferghana Valley remained closed after the Government converted them to medical facilities.\n\nThe Government restricts Shi'a Islamic education by not permitting the separate training of Shi'a imams inside the country and not recognizing such education received outside the country. However, Shi'a imams are educated in Sunni madrassahs, which offer some courses in Shi'a jurisprudence. The Russian Orthodox Church operates two monasteries (one for women, one for men) and a seminary and offers Sunday school education through many of its churches. Other religious groups offer religious education through their religious centers. The Jewish community has no rabbinate because it does not have synagogues in eight different provinces and therefore cannot meet the requirements for a registered central office; however, the Jewish school in Tashkent's Yakkasaroy District provides instruction on Jewish culture.\n\nThe MOJ controls accreditation, a necessity for anyone attempting to work for a non-governmental organization (NGO) in the country, and has the ability to force out, without bringing formal charges, those it believes are proselytizing. The 1998 Religion Law forbids missionary work of any kind.\n\nSeveral international faith-based organizations were forced to close in 2006 and 2007 as part of a wave of closures of international NGOs. On September 6, 2006, the Tashkent City Court liquidated the Uzbek branch of the U.S.-based NGO Partnership in Academics and Development (PAD) after accusing its expatriate staff of proselytizing. On August 23, 2006, the Tashkent City Court ordered the closure of the local branch of the U.S.-based charity Crosslink Development International after the Ministry of Justice accused its employees of conducting missionary activities among Muslims and Orthodox believers. The American-Jewish Joint Distribution Committee faced administrative difficulties in registering local partner organizations because of their connection with a faith-based entity. A 2003 decree of the Cabinet of Ministers outlining a change in registration requirements for NGOs restricted the activities of faith-based entities.\n\nIn June 2006 the Government forced the closure of the international NGOs Central Asia Free Exchange (CAFE) and Global Involvement Through Education, after employees of the organizations were accused of engaging in proselytism, and authorities accused both organizations of several other violations of law. Both organizations maintained that their activities were strictly of a humanitarian nature.\n\nGovernment employees generally display less religious devotion than do citizens in the private sector. The state maintains a policy of secularism, and government employees are under greater scrutiny than others to maintain the separation between religion and state structures.\n\nUnlike previous years, there were no credible reports of heads of mahalla committees threatening Christian converts that they would not be given a cemetery burial if they did not stop attending church.\n\nState-controlled media in some cases encouraged societal prejudice against evangelical Christians. On November 30 and December 1, 2006, state television broadcast a documentary entitled \"Hypocrisy\" that warned citizens against associating with evangelical Christians, particularly Pentecostals. The television program was followed by a series of articles in the state-controlled press and Internet sites reinforcing this message.\n\nAlthough the Government requires that the CRA approve all religious literature, in practice a number of other government entities, including the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MVD), National Security Service (NSS), Customs Service, and police may suppress or confiscate religious literature of which they do not approve. The CRA has restricted the right to publish, import, and distribute religious literature solely to registered central offices of religious organizations, of which seven now exist: an interdenominational Bible Society; the Muslim Board of Uzbekistan; two Islamic centers; and Russian Orthodox, Full Gospel, Baptist, and Roman Catholic offices.\n\nIn this reporting period, the Government restricted the quantity of Christian literature in the Uzbek language that registered central religious organizations could import into the country. Authorities also confiscated Christian literature in Uzbek that had been legally imported into the country. In previous reporting periods, government authorities told church leaders that all Christian literature in Uzbek is considered contraband, even if it was legally imported. For historical and cultural reasons, evangelical pastors generally preach in Russian while offering limited services in the Uzbek language--the official national language and the one linked most closely to the majority Muslim population. In this reporting period, the CRA allowed some materials, such as limited quantities of Uzbek translations of some books of the Bible. The Government requires the Bible Society to file regular reports on its printing, importing, and translating activities.\n\nThe Government may confiscate and in some cases destroy illegally imported religious literature. In July 2006 the Customs Service detained a shipment of 500 Russian-language Bibles and other literature that had been shipped to the Jehovah's Witnesses congregation in Chirchik, based on the CRA's finding that the literature was not necessary. The literature was impounded through the end of the reporting period and subject to storage charges payable by the Jehovah's Witnesses, despite a request from the organization to reroute the shipment to Kazakhstan. Authorities sometimes burn literature, including Bibles that have been confiscated from members of unregistered religious communities. Forum 18 News Agency reported that following a raid on a Baptist church in Karshi on August 27, 2006, a court ordered the burning of seized Christian literature, including a Bible, hymnbooks, and multiple copies of the Old Testament Book of Proverbs in Uzbek.\n\nThe International Post Office in Tashkent scrutinizes all incoming packages and sends examples of any religious material to the CRA for further examination and approval. In the event that the CRA bans the materials, it mails a letter to the intended recipient and the sender explaining the rejection by the committee. The CRA has denied entry into Uzbekistan of both Christian and Muslim titles.\n\nThe Government tightly controls access to Muslim publications and requires a statement in every domestic publication (books, pamphlets, CDs, and movies) indicating the source of its publication authority. Many books are published with the phrase \"permission for this book was granted by the CRA\" or \"this book is recommended by the CRA,\" thus indicating official sanction. Generally, only books published under the Muslim Board's imprint \"Movarounnahr\" contain these phrases. Other works published under the imprint of the state-owned Sharq or Adolat Publishing Houses do not appear to require CRA approval, even when they deal with Islamic law. A few works in Arabic, imported from abroad, are sometimes available from book dealers. More controversial literature, if available, is not displayed, but available only upon request. Possession of literature by authors deemed to be extremists, or of any illegally imported or produced literature, may lead to arrest and prosecution. The Government categorically prohibits HT leaflets.\n\nThe government continued to commit serious abuses of religious freedom. The government's campaign against extremist Muslim groups resulted in numerous serious human rights abuses during the period covered by this report. The campaign was largely directed at suspected IMU members or other terrorists, as well as suspected HT members. This ongoing campaign has resulted in the arrest of many observant, non-extremist Muslims, as well as allegations, dozens of them confirmed, that law enforcement officials have physically mistreated or tortured hundreds, perhaps thousands over the years.\n\nAuthorities often severely mistreat persons arrested on suspicion of extremism, using torture, beatings, and particularly harsh prison conditions, typically sentencing these individuals to 7- to 12-year terms. Some defendants, particularly those also accused of terrorist activity, received sentences of up to 20 years. Even slight involvement with HT, such as attending a Qu'ran study session or possessing an HT leaflet, can draw a sentence of several years' imprisonment.\n\nThere were no further developments in the September 2005 death of Islamic cleric Shavkat Madumarov, who died in custody three days after he was sentenced to 7 years' imprisonment for membership in a banned Islamic group. Although specific information was difficult to obtain, human rights and other observers maintained that prisoners frequently die of diseases such as tuberculosis, contracted during their confinement.\n\nIn 2004 the Supreme Court issued a decree definitively banning the use of evidence obtained by torture or other illegal means. The government has since taken limited administrative steps to eliminate torture in detention, but there were numerous reports that such treatment remained routine and systematic.\n\nThere were no developments in the April 19, 2006, conviction of eight men from the town of Yangiyul, Tashkent Province, on charges of membership in an unregistered religious organization, following a trial at which the defendants testified they had been beaten and tortured. There were also no new developments in the case of nine persons convicted in April 2005 and sentenced to prison terms of 6 to 13 years on religious extremism charges, amid allegations that law enforcement officials tortured them to provoke confessions.\n\nThere were no new developments in the following cases: the February 2005 conviction of 2 Sufi Muslims who claimed that authorities planted HT leaflets on them and tortured them, 23 alleged extremists whose October 2004 convictions were based on testimony police obtained through torture, or the October 2004 criminal conviction of the imam of a Karshi mosque (erroneously cited in the 2005 and 2006 reports as a Navoi mosque) and 16 members who admitted only to being adherents of Islam.\n\nThe Government’s anti-extremism campaign targeted followers of former Tashkent Imam Abidkhan Nazarov, nine of whose followers were deported from Kazakhstan in late November 2005. Uzbekistan courts tried, convicted, and sentenced 7 of them to an average of 6 years' imprisonment on charges of Islamic extremism. Authorities committed the eighth, Shoirmat Shorakhmetov, to an institution for the criminally insane. The ninth, former Tashkent Imam Rukhitdin Fakhrutdinov, was sentenced on September 6, 2006, to 17 years in prison on charges of extremism and involvement in the 1999 Tashkent car bombings. Court guards barred trial monitors from the proceedings. There were no developments in the May 2004 disappearance of Imam Nazarov’s eldest son, Husnuddin Nazarov.\n\nIn thousands of cases in previous reporting periods, authorities asserted HT membership based solely on outward expressions of devout belief or have made false assertions of HT membership as a pretext for prosecuting those of moderate religious belief. In this reporting period, authorities targeted individuals whose relatives were already in prison on charges of extremism or have served as witnesses in other trials. Estimates from credible sources in previous reporting periods suggested that as many as 4,500 of the estimated 5,000 to 5,500 political prisoners being held in detention were imprisoned based on alleged HT membership.\n\nDuring the reporting period, at least 77 persons, and possibly many more, were convicted of membership in HT. In many of these cases there were allegations of torture and coercion or of targeting individuals whose family members were in jail or who had testified as defense witnesses at other HT trials. The circumstances of the other convictions were unclear, as observers were not able to attend many of the trials.\n\nOn April 18, 2007, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted Gulnora Valijonova of HT membership and sentenced her to 6 years' imprisonment. According to Human Rights Watch and an independent human rights activist, who monitored the trial, the Government failed to provide persuasive proof of her membership in HT and it appeared that she was targeted because several members of her family were in prison on extremist charges.\n\nOn October 25, 2006, the Samarkand Province Criminal Court convicted eight men of HT membership and sentenced three defendants to between 5 and 8 years' imprisonment; the remaining defendants were given suspended sentences. Several defendants alleged that their testimony had been coerced under torture, and the trial verdict noted the torture allegations. On September 22, 2006, in a trial closed to journalists and human rights activists, the Tashkent City Court convicted seven men of HT membership and sentenced them to between 10 and 13 years' imprisonment. Although the men confessed to the charges, their lawyers claimed that they confessed only after being threatened by the authorities. On August 3 and August 11, 2006, courts in Tashkent Province convicted a total of 29 men of HT membership in two separate trials and sentenced them to between 1 and 13 years in prison. Several defendants in the two trials testified that their confessions had been coerced through severe beatings. On August 10, 2006, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted 5 men of HT membership and sentenced them to between 12 and 15 years' imprisonment. The five defendants alleged in open court that they had been tortured, but the allegations were not investigated by the court. Relatives of the five men also told human rights activists that they were threatened by authorities and ordered not to talk about the case.\n\nThe 6 Andijon women who were arrested on April 20, 2006 and charged with possession and dissemination of HT materials were convicted on August 14, 2006 under the Criminal Code and sentenced each to between 5 and 6 years' imprisonment.\n\nIt was difficult to estimate precisely the number of persons arrested on false charges of extremism and difficult to know how many of those were under suspicion because of their religious observance. In previous reporting periods, there were accounts of authorities arbitrarily arresting a large percentage of those taken into custody on charges of extremism. Authorities appeared to suspect individuals belonging to Muslim organizations and Muslims who meet privately to pray or study Islam of extremism.\n\nPersons accused of \"Wahhabism\" faced abuse ranging from job loss to physical abuse and long imprisonment. During the reporting period, at least 25 defendants were convicted on nonspecific charges of affiliation with \"Wahhabi\" groups in nine separate trials in Tashkent City and Tashkent Province alone. In April 2007, 6 men in Surkhandarya Province were convicted belonging to a Wahhabist sect and sentenced to between 3 and 6 years' imprisonment. According to a reliable source, the confessions of the defendants were extracted through torture. On February 14, 2007, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted two women on charges of \"Wahhabism\" and subjected them to fines. On December 19, 2006, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted Shoakmal Nosirov and Farkhod Muminov of belonging to a Wahhabist sect and sentenced them to between 6 and 9 years' imprisonment. The men were arrested after organizing a camp for 50 children that included Qur'an reading contests. Most of the children's fathers were in prison on religious extremist charges. In a separate trial on September 12, 2006, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted nine defendants and sentenced 8 of them to 6 years' imprisonment; the ninth defendant received a sentence of 8 years.\n\nThe Government continued to prosecute persons suspected of involvement in the Islamic group Akromiya. According to religious experts, Akromiya is a religious movement that promotes business, not extremism. On February 28, 2007, the Tashkent Province Criminal Court convicted Abdumalik Ibragimov of membership in Akromiya and sentenced him to 8 years' imprisonment. On July 21, 2006, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted at least eight, and possibly as many as 45 men, as a group on charges of Akromiya membership. Abdusamat Karimov was sentenced to 8 years' imprisonment. Ilkhomjon Yuldoshev was sentenced to 5 years' imprisonment. The sentences of the other defendants were not reported.\n\nDuring the reporting period, authorities for the first time sentenced a Christian pastor on criminal charges for religious activities. On January 21, 2007, Andijon authorities arrested pastor Dmitry Shestakov, leader of a registered Full Gospel Pentecostal congregation. On March 9, 2007, the Andijon Province Criminal Court convicted Shestakov and sentenced him to 4 years in a labor colony on charges of organizing an illegal religious group, inciting religious hatred, and distributing religious extremist literature. After a new trial on May 25, 2007, Shestakov was transferred from an open work camp to a harsher labor camp in Navoi.\n\nThere were no developments in the case of alleged Akromiya members Akhad Ziyodkhojayev, Bokhodir Karimov, and Abdubosid Zakirov, convicted in Tashkent on July 25, 2005, of participation in a religious extremist group, along with other charges, and serving sentences of 15.5 to 16 years' imprisonment. There were also no new developments in the case of seven food vendors sentenced in March 2005 in Syrdarya to 8 to 9 years based on their alleged membership in Akromiya.\n\nThe Government branded the Islamic missionary group Tabligh Jamoat (\"Outreach Society\") as extremist. Eleven Tabligh Jamoat members sentenced in October 2004 in Andijon to 5-year terms remained incarcerated; most of the more recent cases resulted in fines, amnesties or light sentences.\n\nIn this reporting period, sources noted that some prisoners convicted of religious extremism were held separately from \"ordinary\" prisoners and were treated more harshly by prison guards. Shortly before their expected release, such prisoners also were retried for organizing extremist cells within prison and had their prison terms extended. In previous reporting periods, there were reports that prison authorities did not allow many prisoners suspected of Islamic extremism to practice their religion freely and, in some circumstances, did not allow them to possess a Qur'an. Prison authorities also often did not permit inmates to pray five times a day or to adjust work and meal schedules for the Ramadan fast. As authorities still did not allow visits by independent outside monitors to places of detention, there was no reliable way of knowing whether these conditions persisted or of verifying reports that religious prisoners were beaten or subjected to especially harsh treatment, such as being isolated or beaten for refusing to sign letters of repentance renouncing what the authorities deemed religious extremism.\n\nAuthorities often harass or arrest family members of persons wanted in connection with Islamic political activities or already jailed in connection with those activities. Although there are exceptions, in many cases the relative's only crime is association.\n\nIn previous reporting periods, there were several cases in which authorities detained women for participating in or organizing demonstrations demanding the release of male relatives jailed on suspicion of Islamic extremism. There were no such reports in this reporting period; however, authorities appeared to target women whose husbands were in prison. On April 27, 2007, the Tashkent City Criminal Court convicted seven of the eight women arrested for their alleged HT membership but released the seven with suspended sentences. Human Rights Watch stated that although the eight women were accused of forming a HT \"cohort,\" it was clear from witness testimony that the women did not all know each other. The only facts linking the women together were that they all had husbands or close relatives in prison and that they all had testified as witnesses in previous trials. In contrast to previous years, there were no reports that police insulted or forced some women to remove their head coverings.\n\nIn previous reporting periods, there were reports that police planted narcotics, ammunition, and religious leaflets on citizens to justify their arrests, and that police arrested many of those with outward signs of religious observance, such as traditional clothing or beards. It was not possible to determine whether the absence of new reports reflected improvement or a decrease in information flow.\n\nThere were also reports that authorities tortured and beat evangelical Christians or failed to punish community members who did so. No arrests were made in connection with the December 18, 2006, attack by hired thugs on a Pentecostal Church deacon. There were no new developments in the June 2005 alleged torture of a Pentecostal Christian in Tashkent reported in numerous media outlets.\n\nAny religious service conducted by an unregistered religious organization is illegal. Police occasionally broke up meetings of unregistered evangelical congregations and detained their members. With a few exceptions, authorities often charged those detained with administrative fines of 50 to 100 times the minimum wage.\n\nAs in previous years, there were numerous reports that Christian evangelicals were detained, often for a week or more. A reliable source reported that on April 7, 2007, police raided the service of the unregistered Baptist Church of Guliston and detained its pastor, Victor Klimov, who was charged under several articles of the Administrative Code. On February 8, 2007, Samarkand police arrested a Kazakh citizen pastor affiliated with the Greater Grace Church and held him in detention for 11 days.\n\nHudoer Pardaev and Igor Kim, members of God's Love Pentecostal Church from the Jizzak region, were sentenced on June 12, 2007, to 10 days in prison for \"illegally\" teaching religion by the Yangiabad District Court.\n\nOn January 15, 2007, police in Nukus reportedly raided a Presbyterian church service held in a private home and arrested 18 worshipers. Authorities charged several on violations of the Administrative Code and fined them. One detainee, Salavat Serikbayev, was tried on criminal charges of teaching religion illegally. On May 10, 2007, the Nukus Criminal Court convicted Serikbayev but released him with a 2-year suspended sentence, during which time he is on probation and prohibited from traveling abroad and required to pay 20 percent of his earnings to the state. On April 9, 2007, a second detainee, Pastor Grigory Ten, was fined $490 (621,000 soum) for several violations of the Administrative Code, a large sum for residents of Karakalpakstan.\n\nOn August 24, 2006, police raided a house in the village of Uch-kiliz (near Termez) and detained 17 members of the Union of Independent Churches, many of whom were subsequently beaten. Most of the detainees were freed within 24 hours, but five of them were held until September 4, 2006.\n\nIn this reporting period, there were several reported instances of the Government raiding services and imposing fines for worshipping, teaching, proselytizing, or other unauthorized religious activity. Although the authorities tolerated the existence of many Christian evangelical groups, they strictly enforced the law's ban on proselytizing, and often harassed, detained or fined those who openly tried to convert Muslims to Christianity. On April 12, 2007, Bukhara provincial authorities fined a local Pentecostal $56 (70,000 soum) on administrative charges of teaching religion without specialized training. On May 16, 2007, two members of Dmitry Shestakov's Full Gospel Church in Andijon were fined approximately $20 (25,200 soum) for obstruction of justice.\n\nDuring the period of this report, the Government particularly targeted Full Gospel (Pentecostal) churches. This targeting continued a pattern from the previous reporting period. In December 2006 the pastor of the Resurrection Pentecostal Church in Andijon, which had long been denied registration, was fined $85 (109,500 soum) for holding \"illegal\" meetings. Under intense pressure from local authorities and mahalla leaders, the Resurrection Pentecostal Church decided to close its congregation in June 2007.\n\nA reliable source reported that on December 27, 2006, the Nukus town court fined Makset Djabbarbergenov, the pastor of an unregistered Christian church, $440 (540,000 soum) for several violations of the Administrative Code. On October 25, 2006, six members of the Separated Baptists Church were fined between $85 (108,000 soum) and $430 (540,000 soum) by the Karshi town court for violating article 240 of the Administrative Code. A reliable source reported that on December 7, 2006, the Karshi town court dropped or reduced the fines against four of the members.\n\nA reliable source reported that authorities dropped charges against three members of the Jesus Christ Charismatic Church in Tashkent who were detained for several days in April 2006 while engaged in humanitarian activities at a children's hospital.\n\nJehovah's Witnesses also came under particular scrutiny and occasionally faced arrest on charges of proselytizing. On June 6, 2007, Dilafruz Arziyeva, a member of the Jehovah's Witnesses Samarkand congregation, was convicted of illegally teaching religion and sentenced to 2 years of corrective labor. On May 14, 2007, another member of the Jehovah's Witnesses Samarkand congregation, Irfan Hamidov, was also convicted of the same charge and sentenced to 2 years' detention in a labor camp after a trial in which witnesses’ testimony favorable to his case was erased from the record.\n\nOn April 2, 2007, local police disrupted approximately five Jehovah's Witnesses congregations in three cities during annual worship services commemorating the death of Jesus. There were reports that one worshiper in Samarkand was injured when a police officer beat him on the head. These disruptions were far less severe than in 2006 and 2005, when hundreds of Jehovah's Witnesses were taken into custody, several were reportedly beaten, and many were subjected to large fines and brief administrative detention following raids on annual memorial services in several cities. On February 19, 2008, police officers and local officials of Samarkand raided the homes of Jehovah's Witnesses and took 18 congregation members to the police station. One of the victims was a 17-year-old girl who was reportedly stripped and fondled by an intoxicated police officer. Ozod Saidov, also 17 years old, had his hair pulled and was hit repeatedly on the head. Muhayyo Abdulhakova, a 14-year-old-girl, was interrogated alone and was threatened with being beaten. Akmaral Rahmonberdiyeva was arrested while she was visiting her friend Yana Karimova. The police searched Karimova's apartment and took them both in for questioning.\n\nAll the victims faced extreme pressure to incriminate fellow members and disclose private information. All were severely abused verbally and were threatened with physical assault. Some of the officers participating in these raids were said to be drunk, as were \"eye-witnesses\" called on to serve as search witnesses. In many cases, no warrants were provided to justify the raids, nor was legal protocol adhered to. Various personal belongings disappeared from the homes of the individuals searched, including identification papers and employment documents. An infirm 86-year-old woman lay helpless as the police searched her son's home and confiscated their belongings. When the police could not find any Bible literature in Yuriy Khasanov's apartment, they reportedly planted 11 magazines and a brochure in the Uzbek language, and then they arrested him on the pretense that these items belonged to him.\n\nMost of these incidents occurred on February 19. The police and officials who participated have not been held accountable for this string of human rights violations, behavior that indicates a steady deterioration of human rights in Uzbekistan.\n\nThere were several cases during the reporting period in which authorities deported members of religious minority groups from the country, presumably based upon their religious affiliation. Forum 18 reported that in mid-June 2007, a Tajik Pentecostal who had lived in the country for more than ten years was deported to Tajikistan. The Pentecostal was arrested after meeting in a church member's house in Tashkent in late May and held in jail for 22 days before being deported. On August 11, 2006, Interior Ministry officers in Tashkent deported Ivan Bychkov, a member of the Bethany Baptist Church, to Russia, reportedly without explanation. Bychkov, a Russian citizen, had been resident in Tashkent for many years. On September 5, 2006, Tashkent authorities deported Viktoria Khrypunova, the Russian-citizen wife of Pastor Sergei Khrypunov of the Bethany Baptist Church. As in Bychkov's case, authorities reportedly gave no explanation for Khrypunova's deportation.\n\nOn April 25, 2008, the Samarkand Criminal Court sentenced Olim Turayev, a Jehovah's Witness, to four years in a labor colony for teaching his religious beliefs to others and for organizing illegal religious activity, acts that according to Articles 229-2 and 216 of the Uzbekistan Criminal Code are punishable crimes.\n\nThere were no reports of forced religious conversion, including of minor U.S. citizens who had been abducted or illegally removed from the United States, or of the refusal to allow such citizens to be returned to the United States.\n\nSince 2003 the Government has allowed former Mufti Muhammad Sodiq Muhammad Yusuf to publish widely on a variety of religious topics in both print and electronic formats. His popular Islamic website remained unblocked by the Government and he continued to host a popular radio program on Islam and to teach at the Islamic University.\n\nAuthorities allowed a small number of unregistered mosques to reopen, both in cities and in the countryside. In addition, non state sanctioned imams continued to work, particularly in rural areas, under the close watch of religious officials. Reports noted that the atmosphere in the Muslim community has improved somewhat, as observant Muslims were allowed to practice their faith within these controlled environments.\n\nThe Government continued to respect the military pacifism of Jehovah's Witnesses. The draft board routinely gave exemptions. On April 2, Jehovah's Witnesses throughout Uzbekistan encountered far less harassment than in the past 2 years in the course of their annual memorial services commemorating Jesus' death.\n\nDuring the period covered by this report, the Government continued to tolerate the use of head coverings by Muslim women. The hijab was seen frequently in Tashkent, the more religiously conservative parts of the Ferghana Valley, and in other regions. The CRA took the position that women should not be barred from educational institutions on the basis of their religious dress and actively assisted women who had been previously expelled to gain readmission to their universities. During the period covered by this report, it was more common to see women on the street wearing the hijab and, much less frequently, the veil.\n\nThere were reports of recent cases where authorities have dismissed charges against Protestants after their lawyer protested procedural matters or evidence. Forum 18 reported that in March 2007 prosecutors tried to bring a case against Vyacheslav Tskhe, a youth leader of the registered Grace Pentecostal Church in the Mirzo-Ulugbek District of Tashkent, for several violations of the Administrative Code. However, after Tskhe protested to several state agencies about the actions of a police officer involved in the case, the charges against Tskhe were dropped and the police officer was reprimanded. On February 10, 2007, police raided a house in the town of Gazli (near Bukhara) and detained six members of the Pentecostal Church. The charges against them were later dropped and the arresting police officers disciplined. On February 5, 2007, the Chilanzar District Court in Tashkent dropped charges against five members of the Pentecostal church who had been charged with violating several articles of the Administrative Code.\n\nUzbek society is generally tolerant of religious diversity but not of proselytizing. The population maintained its long tradition of secularism and religious tolerance. In particular, Muslim, Russian Orthodox, Roman Catholic, and Jewish leaders reported high levels of acceptance in society. Evangelical or Pentecostal Christian churches and churches with ethnic Uzbek converts encountered difficulties stemming from discrimination. There were persistent reports that ethnic Uzbeks who converted to Christianity faced discrimination and harassment.\n\nState-controlled media in some cases encouraged societal prejudice against evangelical Christians. After state television featured a two-part documentary directed against Christian evangelicals in November 2006, members of a leading Tashkent Pentecostal church reported severe harassment and escalating threats from their local community, culminating in a December 18, 2006, attack by hired thugs on a church deacon. Some of the articles in the state-controlled press included quotes from Russian Orthodox clerics criticizing evangelical activity.\n\nThere was no pattern of discrimination against Jews. Synagogues, Hebrew education, Jewish cultural events, and the publication of a community newspaper take place openly and undisturbed. Many Jews have emigrated to the United States and Israel, most likely because of bleak economic prospects and connections to families abroad, rather than anti-Jewish sentiment. There are Jewish kindergartens in Tashkent and Samarkand officially teaching Jewish culture. Investigations established that anti-Semitism was not a motive in the February 2006 death of a Tashkent Jewish community leader, Avraam Yagudayev, or the June 2006 killings of a twenty-year-old secretary to prominent Tashkent-based Rabbi David Gurevich, Karina Loifer, and her mother.\n\nUnlike in previous years, there was only one report of individuals being charged with the distribution of HT leaflets, which often contain strong anti-Semitic rhetoric, during the period of this report. On August 10, 2006, the Uzbek Customs Committee stated on a government-run website that two Kazakh citizens were arrested for possessing HT books, magazines and leaflets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7809355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7809355", "title": "Gurbachan Singh Talib", "text": "Gurbachan Singh Talib\n\nSardar Gurbachan Singh ( (Gurmukhi); 1911–1986) was a Sikh scholar, professor, and author. He was born in Moonak, Sangrur district. He was a lecturer at the Sikh National College at Lahore. At the Banaras Hindu University he held the prestigious Guru Nanak Chair of Sikh Studies. He received the Padma Bhushan in 1985. He received in 1985 the National fellowship by the Indian Council of Historical Research, New Delhi.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58874045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58874045", "title": "Hindu Temple of St. Louis", "text": "Hindu Temple of St. Louis\n\nThe Hindu Temple of St. Louis is located in Ballwin, Missouri and serves over 14,000 Hindus residing in the St. Louis Area. The temple is located at 725 Weidman Rd, St. Louis, MO, 63011. The current Pandit of the Hindu Temple is Patabhi Maddipati\n\nThe Hindu Temple of St. Louis was formally registered as a Not For Profit Organization in Missouri in 1988. Groundbreaking of the temple commenced on April 21 1990 with a Bhoomi Pooja and by November 8 1991, the temple was completed. The first physical deities were installed in 1995, replacing pictures of deities. Mahatma Gandhi Cultural Center was the first building constructed in 1991. In 2000, several sculptors arrived from India to create ornate details on the gopuram. In 2008, Hindu Temple of St. Louis bought a nearby housing complex for $3 Million to expand the annex. This expansion sponsored criticism among local citizens due to the increased traffic, noise pollution and light pollution impacting the citizens that live adjacent to the annex. In 2012, the local subdivision and the temple reached a agreement to build a wall around its newly acquired land and a \"15 feet setback\".\n\nThe temple currently consists of a worship place, a cultural center, reception area, a cafeteria, a library, a parking lot and a auditorium.\n\nIn 2003, two vandals attacked the Hindu Temple with Molotov Cocktails impacting the front doors but caused no injuries. The suspects were later apprehended. \n"}
{"id": "8768887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8768887", "title": "Hinduism in Ukraine", "text": "Hinduism in Ukraine\n\nHinduism is a minority religion in Ukraine.It is folloewd by 0.1 % of the population,with a slightly higher proportion in Western Ukraine (0.2%).\nAccording to the 2016 survey by Razumkov Centre, Hindu believers constituted 0.2% of the population of Ukraine, with a slightly higher proportion in Donbass (0.6%) and eastern Ukraine(0.3%).The percentage of Hindus decreased by 0.1% according to the 2018 survey by Razumkov Centre.In 2018, Hindus constituted 0.1% of the population of Ukraine, with a slightly higher proportion in Western Ukraine (0.2%) and less than 0.1 % in other regions.\n\n\n\n\n\nAs of January 1, 2006, twenty-nine Krishna Consciousness communities were registered IRF 2006\n\nIt has more than 30 charitable missions (e.g., “Meal for Life”) and has begun construction of a school. Iskcon has 60 teaching centres and 15 God Krishna temples. It is estimated that ISKCON in Ukraine has 450 students, 8,000 active adherents, more than 300 clergy, and nearly 40,000 adherents.\n\nYoga is gaining popularity in Ukraine.\n\nSahaja Yoga, Vasudeva Yoga Association of Ukraine and Ashtanga Yoga Club of Ukraine are some Organisations in Ukraine teaching Yoga.\n\nSahaja Yoga is a method of meditation which seeks to bring a breakthrough in the evolution of human awareness. It was created by Shri Mataji Nirmala Devi in 1970.\n\nInternational Federation of Yoga CAS (Vajra Yoga) is present in Kiev as well. It is mainly focused on the correct approach to the spine in asanas. There are classes for both beginners and advanced yoga students. Some Vajra Yoga teachers give courses in English. Its two main studios, Vajra and India Club, are located in the city center. The timetable of the classes can be found on its website (in Russian/Ukrainian).\n\nYoga in Daily Life has a Centre in Ukraine. Address- Society Yoga in daily life Cherkassy Ukraine, Smelyanskaya str, 80-60, Cherkassy\n\n, the biggest Hatha yoga school has branches almost in all major centers including Kiev, Kharkiv and Lviv\n\nBrahma Kumaris has 5 centres in Ukraine.\n\nTantra Sangha, which has a Russian origin exists in Ukraine\n\n"}
{"id": "1820444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820444", "title": "Ho Feng-Shan", "text": "Ho Feng-Shan\n\nHo Feng-Shan ( September 10, 1901 – September 28, 1997) was a Chinese diplomat for the Republic of China. When he was Consul-general in Vienna during World War II, he risked his life and career to save more than 3,000 Jews by issuing them visas, disobeying the instruction of his superiors. Ho's actions were recognized posthumously when the Israeli organization Yad Vashem in 2000 decided to award him the title \"Righteous Among the Nations\".\n\nHo Feng-Shan's father died when Ho was 7 years old. A diligent and hard-working student, he managed to enter the Yali School in the provincial capital of Changsha and later Yale-in-China University. He attended the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich in 1929 and received his doctorate in political economics in 1932.\n\nIn 1935, Ho started his diplomatic career within the Foreign Ministry of the Republic of China. His first posting was in Turkey. He was appointed First Secretary at the Chinese legation in Vienna in 1937. When Austria was annexed by Nazi Germany in 1938, and the legation was turned into a consulate, Ho was assigned the post of Consul-General.\n\nAfter the \"Kristallnacht\" in 1938, the situation became rapidly more difficult for the almost 200,000 Austrian Jews. The only way for Jews to escape from Nazism was to leave Europe. In order to leave, they had to provide proof of emigration, usually a visa from a foreign nation, or a valid boat ticket. This was difficult, however, because at the 1938 Évian Conference 31 countries (out of a total of 32, which included Canada, Australia, and New Zealand) refused to accept Jewish immigrants. The only country willing to accept Jews was the Dominican Republic, which offered to accept up to 100,000 refugees. Acting against the orders of his superior Chen Jie (陳介), the Chinese ambassador to Berlin, Ho started to issue visas to Shanghai, part of which during this time was still under the control of the Republic of China, for humanitarian reasons. Twelve hundred visas were issued by Ho in the first three months of holding office as Consul-General.\n\nAt the time it was not necessary to have a visa to enter Shanghai, but the visas allowed the Jews to leave Austria. Many Jewish families left for Shanghai, whence most of them would later leave for Hong Kong and Australia. Ho continued to issue these visas until he was ordered to return to China in May 1940. The exact number of visas given by Ho to Jewish refugees is unknown. It is known that Ho issued the 200th visa in June 1938, and signed the 1906th visa on October 27, 1938. How many Jews were saved through his actions is unknown, but given that Ho issued nearly 2,000 visas only during his first half year at his post, the number may be in the thousands.\n\nAfter the Communist victory in 1949, Ho followed the Nationalist government to Taiwan. He later served as the ambassador from Republic of China (Taiwan) to other countries, including to Egypt, Mexico, Bolivia, and Colombia. After his retirement in 1973, Ho settled in San Francisco, California, where he wrote his memoirs, \"My Forty Years as a Diplomat\" (外交生涯四十年) published in 1990 (English translation 2010).\n\nAfter his retirement in 1973, the government on Taiwan denied Ho a pension on the grounds, common then, that he had been subpoenaed and refused to cooperate with Diplomatic Services, and had not properly accounted for a small sum in embassy expense account. These charges are now widely believed to have been politically motivated. The ROC government has never exonerated him as there were many diplomats leaving their posts without authorization. He did not report to work and he was terminated without a pension. This was the policy when tens of embassies were closed. He returned to his native China and visited his alma mater in Changsha for school's 80th anniversary in 1986. A shadow was cast over his later years by impeachment by Taipei's Committee on the Discipline of Public Functionaries for having allegedly misappropriated funds when ambassador to Colombia in 1970, charges which he claimed were concocted by a subordinate he had refused to recommend for promotion.\nHowever, on September 10, 2015, President Ma in Taipei commended Dr. Ho for his service and presented his daughter a certificate of appreciation with Israeli government representatives.\n\nHo Feng-Shan died in San Francisco, California at the age of 96. He was survived by his son, Monto Ho (何曼德), a Chinese-American professional in microbiology, virology, and infectious diseases; and by his daughter, Manli Ho (何曼禮).\n\nHo's actions in Vienna went unnoticed during his lifetime, save for a black mark in his personnel file for disobeying orders. They were finally recognized, posthumously, when he was awarded the title Righteous Among the Nations by the Israeli organization Yad Vashem at a ceremony in 2001 and honored by Boys Town Jerusalem in 2004. In 2015, his daughter represented her father to receive a meritorious certificate for his diplomatic services presented by ROC Government, with participation of representatives from Israel.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24226213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24226213", "title": "Institute of Jewish Affairs", "text": "Institute of Jewish Affairs\n\nThe Institute of Jewish Affairs (IJA) was founded in February 1941 as a research institute to provide analysis of political, legal and economic issues affecting Jewish life.\n\nThe Institute of Jewish Affairs was launched and sponsored by the World Jewish Congress (WJC) and the American Jewish Congress. IJA’s headquarters were situated in New York City until 1965 when the institution relocated to London. In 1994 it was reestablished in London as Institute for Jewish Policy Research.\n\nThe Institute’s founder Dr Jacob Robinson argued that Jewish leaders, struggling for the interests of the Jewry after World War I, “were hampered by the lack of up-to-date information on the situation of the Jews and no less by the lack of research into relevant legal and political options.” The IJA was established to bridge the gap. The Institute’s research focused on the analysis of the political, legal and economic aspects of Jewish life since World War I. Their reports examined a number of topics including: the situation of Jewish communities in various countries, anti-Semitism, human rights related to minorities and migration, and the Holocaust and its aftermath. The organization was also involved in formulating a postwar policy to secure Jewish rights and freedom internationally.\n\nDr Jacob Robinson, IJA’s founder, served as its first director (1941–1947). He was succeeded by Nehemiah Robinson (1947–1964) and Oscar Karbach (1964–1973). In the late 1940s, the organization, together with WJC’s Political Department, was engaged in the preparation of reports submitted to the United Nations and other organizations.\n\n"}
{"id": "3790732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3790732", "title": "Islam in Trinidad and Tobago", "text": "Islam in Trinidad and Tobago\n\nMuslims constitute 5 percent of the population of Trinidad and Tobago, representing 102,421 individuals. The majority live in Trinidad but there are a handful in Tobago as well. \n\nThe first Muslims to arrive in the country arrived from Africa brought as slaves by the colonists. The second group arrived in 1816 as a small proportion of those of the Corps of Colonial Marines who were African-born and had been recruited in 1815 in Georgia during the War of 1812, mostly settled in Fifth and Sixth Companies within the Company Villages near Princes Town. They were followed by African Muslims among disbanded members of the West India Regiments settled between 1817 and 1825 in Manzanilla on the East Coast and in a group of villages south-east of Valencia, and further African Muslims were brought to Trinidad as a result of the Royal Navy's interception of slaving ships following the Slave Trade Acts. From the 1840s, Muslims came from South Asia as part of the Indian indenture system to work on sugar cane and cacao plantations. Muslims today are mostly of South Asian descent but there are converts from all races. In Trinidad there are Islamic primary and secondary schools. The first Muslim secondary school in the country, ASJA Boys' College, San Fernando, was established in 1960. \nThere are many mosques and Eid ul Fitr is a public holiday. There are several mosques belonging to the Ahmadiyya Muslim Community and 5 mosques belonging to the Ahmadiyya Anjuman Isha'at Islam Lahore. In 2005, an Islamic television channel IBN Channel 8 was born. In 2006 Darut Tarbiyah - The Islamic Network (T.I.N.) was established.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30847614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30847614", "title": "Jewish magical papyri", "text": "Jewish magical papyri\n\nJewish magical papyri are a subclass of papyri with specific Jewish magical uses, and which shed light on popular belief during the late Second Temple Period and after in Late Antiquity. A related category of contemporary evidence are Jewish magical inscriptions, typically on amulets, ostraca, and incantation bowls.\n\nAlthough magic was forbidden by Levitical law in the Hebrew Bible, it was widely practised in the late Second Temple period, and particularly well documented in the period following the destruction of the temple into the 3rd, 4th, and 5th centuries C.E. Jewish and Samaritan magicians appear in the New Testament, Acts of the Apostles, and also in the works of Josephus, such as Atomos, a Jewish magician of Cyprus (\"Antiquities of the Jews\" 20:142).\n\nThe language of the papyri may be:\n\nJewish magical papyri supplement the evidences for angelology found in early rabbinic material, for example in identifying the existence of a national angel named Israel.\n\nThe character of Jewish magical papyri is often syncretic. Some \"Jewish magical papyri\" may not themselves be Jewish but syncretic invocations of Yahweh by non-Jews.\n\nAlthough not technically \"papyri\", inscriptions on amulets and incantation bowls offer context. Jewish incantation bowls were collected most notably by Shlomo Moussaieff and the inscriptions analysed by Dan Levene (2002).\n\nThe discovery, primarily during the heyday of Near Eastern archaeology in the late 19th century, and subsequent interpretation and cataloguing, primarily during the early 20th century, has been followed by incorporation into academic research which has allowed Jewish magical papyri and magical inscriptions a supplemental role to major sources such as Pseudepigrapha, Apocrypha, Dead Sea Scrolls, Philo, Josephus, the New Testament, and the Talmuds.\n\n"}
{"id": "1562256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1562256", "title": "Jewish views on astrology", "text": "Jewish views on astrology\n\nIn Hebrew, astrology is called \"hokmat ha-mazalot\", \"the science of (determining) the ruling planet\", (The Planets, The Jews, and the Beginnings of 'Jewish Astrology' , Reimund Leicht) because knowledge of astrology/astronomy was required to determine the ruling planet (of the hour). Knowing the ruling planet of the hour is needed when the blessing \"He who has wrought the work of creation\" must be recited at the moment of the spring equinox every 28 years:\n\n\"Our Rabbis taught: He who sees the sun at its turning point, the moon in its power, the planets in their orbits, and the signs of the zodiac in their orderly progress, should say: Blessed be He who has wrought the work of creation. And when [does this happen] — Abaye said: Every twenty-eight years when the cycle begins again and the Nisan [Spring] equinox falls in (the hour of) Saturn on the evening of Tuesday going into Wednesday. - \"Berochot 59b\"\"\n\nWhile not a Jewish practice or teaching as such, astrology made its way into the Jewish thought as can be seen in the many references to it in the Talmud such as \"Shabbat 156b\": \"Rabbi Ḥanina said to his students who heard all this: Go and tell the son of Levi, Rabbi Yehoshua ben Levi: It is not the ruling planet of the day of the week that determines a person’s nature; rather, it is the ruling planet of the hour that determines his nature. One who was born under the influence of the sun will be a radiant person; he will eat from his own resources and drink from his own resources...\" Thus astrology/astronomy served to determine the hour of Saturn according to the needs of religious observance. The great erudite rabbis applied their knowledge of planetary rulers to commonplace astrological prognostications. Astrological statements became accepted and worthy of debate and discussion by Torah scholars.\n\nAstrology is not specifically mentioned in the Torah, but there are two commandments which have been used by some authorities as a basis to forbid the practice.\n\nThese commandments are understood by some rabbinic authorities as forbidding astrology, while others limit these \"mitzvot\" to other forms of soothsaying, and thus view astrology as permissible.\n\nThe Hebrew word \"mazalot\", which literally means \"lucks\" or \"zodiac\", is used twice in the Hebrew Bible. Specific constellations are also mentioned, such as Orion (named \"Kesil\" \"כסיל\", literally: \"fool\"; possibly etymologically connected with \"Kislev\", the name for the ninth month of the Hebrew calendar (i.e. November–December), which, in turn, may derive from the Hebrew root K-S-L as in the words \"kesel, kisla\" (כֵּסֶל, כִּסְלָה, hope, positiveness), that is, hope for winter rains), which is mentioned three times: Job 9:9 (\"He is the maker of the Bear and Orion\"), Job 38:31 (\"Can you loosen Orion's belt?\"), and Amos 5:8 (\"He who made the Pleiades and Orion\").\n\nIn the Hebrew Bible the prophets scoffed at \"star-gazers\" (\"hoverei ha-shamayim\") in and . Astrologers from Babylon were called \"Kasdim/Kasdin\" (Chaldeans) in the Book of Daniel. In rabbinic literature, the term \"Chaldeans\" later was often used as a synonym with those who practiced astrology.\n\nSome historians hold that astrology slowly made its way into the Jewish community through syncretism with ancient Hellenistic culture. The Sibylline oracles praise the Jewish nation because it \"does not meditate on the prophecies of the fortune-tellers, magicians, and conjurers, nor practice Astrology, nor seek the oracles of the Chaldeans in the stars\" (iii. 227); although the author of the \"Encyclopaedia Judaica\" article on astrology holds that this view is mistaken.\n\nThe early historian Josephus censures the people for ignoring what he thought were signs foreshadowing the destruction of the Temple in Jerusalem.\n\nThere are many references to astrology in the apocrypha. The Book of Jubilees said that Abraham overcame the beliefs of astrologers by accepting one God.\n\nIn early classical rabbinic works written in the land of Israel (Jerusalem Talmud and Palestinian midrash compilations) astrologers are known as \"astrologos\" and \"astrologiyya\". In early classical rabbinic works written in Babylon, astrologers were called \"kaldiyyim\", \"kalda'ei\", and \"iztagninin\".\n\nThe Babylonian Talmud (BT), in Shabbath 156a, records rabbinic mention of character traits associated with one's having been born on specific days of the week. This wink to superstition did not extend to astrology, however, as R. Johanan, the Palestinian amora, is reported to have said \"there is no \"mazal\" (literally \"star\") for Israel, but only for the nations [which recognize the validity of astrology.]\" This opinion was shared by Rav (BT Shabbat 156a). Moreover, whereas BT Sanhedrin 65 merely suggests that individual Jews may not consult an astrologer, tractate BT Pesachim 113b clearly states that Jews may not consult astrologers.\n\nSamuel of Babylonia (circa 250 CE) is the only sage in the Talmud who seriously studied astrology, yet he held that it was not compatible with Judaism. Quoting Deuteronomy 30:12, \"The Law is not in the Heavens\", he is reputed to have taught that \"Torah can not go together with the art that studies the heavens\" (Midrash Deuteronomy Rabbah 8:6).\n\nA similar remark is made by the Babylonian sage Jose of Hu?al: \"We are not permitted to appeal to the Chaldeans, for it is written (Deut. 18:13), 'You shall be perfect with the Lord your God'\" (BT Pesachim 113b).\n\nRabbinic literature records that Rabbi Akiva contends against astrological beliefs, e.g., Sifre, Deut. 171; Sifra, Kedoshim, vi.; Sanhedrin 65.\n\nRabbi Maimonides's mitzvot say that superstitions should not be trusted.\n\nHowever, other statements in the Talmud and in the midrash literature show that many Jews had some level of admiration for astrology.\n\nSome hold that the stars generally do control the fate of people and nations, but Abraham and his descendants were elevated by their covenant with God, and thus achieve an elevated level of free will. (Midrash Genesis Rabbah 44:12, Yal., Jer. 285). A statement in the Tosefta (Kiddushin 5:17) holds that the blessing bestowed on Abraham is the gift of astrology. Midrash Ecclesiastes Rabbah states that the rulers of some non-Jewish nations were experts in astrology, and that King Solomon too had expertise in this realm. (7:23 no. 1)\n\nThere is a story in the Talmud according to which God showed to Adam all the future generations, including their scribes, scholars, and leaders (BT Avodah Zarah 5a). According to this source, the biblical Patriarch Abraham bore upon his breast an astrological tablet on which the fate of every man might be read. Thus, kings are said to have congregated before his door in order to seek advice.\n\nAn announcement is found to the effect that it is dangerous to drink water on Wednesday and Friday evenings (Pesachim 112a). Samuel, a physician and astrologer, taught that it was dangerous to bleed a patient on Monday, Tuesday, or Thursday, because on the last-mentioned day Mars reigns at the even-numbered hours of the day, when demons have their play. The new moon was likewise regarded as an unfavorable season for bleeding, as were also the third of the month and the day preceding a festival (BT Shabbat 129b).\n\nHowever, contrary stories are related. It is said that Abraham predicted in these astrological tablets that he would have no second son, but God said unto him, \"Away with your astrology; for Israel there is no \"mazal\" (\"luck\", literally \"planet\" or \"constellation\")!\" The birth of his second son, the patriarch Isaac, then gives lie to the idea that astrology is valid. (BT Shabbat 156a). Midrash Genesis Rabbah states that Abraham was not an astrologer, but rather a prophet, inasmuch as only those beneath the stars could be subject to their influence; but that Abraham was above them (Genesis Rabbah xliv. 12).\n\nIn general, many people quoted in the Talmud believed that in theory astrology had merit as some kind of science, but they were skeptical that astrological signs could be interpreted correctly or in a practical fashion. Commenting on astrologers in Sotah 12b, the Talmud says of them that \"They gaze and know not at what they gaze at, they ponder and know not what they ponder.\"\n\nThe most popular form of astrological belief was the selection of propitious days. According to this idea, certain periods of time are regarded as lucky or unlucky. Rabbi Akiba contends \"against\" the belief that the year before the jubilee is exceptionally blessed. The belief is also condemned that no business should be begun on the new moon, on Friday, or on Sabbath evening (Sifre, Deut. 171; Sifra, Kedoshim, vi.; Sanh. 65).\n\nThe Talmud identified the 12 constellations of the zodiac with the 12 months of the Hebrew calendar. The correspondence of the constellations with their names in Hebrew and the months is as follows:\n\n\nSome scholars identified the 12 signs of the zodiac with the 12 sons of Yakov/Jacob/twelve tribes of Israel.\n\nIn should be noted that the 12 lunar months of the Hebrew Calendar are just that: based on the 12 lunar months of 29.53 days each and the lunar year of 354 days. To ensure that the holiday of Passover falls in the spring, a leap month is added 7 times in the 19-year calendar cycle. The calendar originally alternated between 29-day months and 30-day months based on witness testimony before the Sanhedrin, and the leap month added when deemed necessary. Subsequently, with the end of the Sanhedrin, the modern Hebrew calendar was adopted based on mathematical calculation.\n\nFor astrological purposes therefore, the months continue to match approximately with the assigned constellations (in contrast to a purely lunar calendar, which would shift association of the relevant Hebrew month with the dominant astrological Sun sign). The season aspect of the signs corresponds with the seasons in Israel. Thus, the water signs fall in the winter months which mark the rainy season. When a leap month is required, it is always the month of Adar (the traditional end of the rain season), thus perpetuating the influence of Pisces for one additional month.\n\nMany rabbis in the Geonic era (after the close of the Talmud, early medieval period) discussed the varying Talmudic and midrashic views on astrology. One responsum takes a middle view: \"Otzar HaGeonim\" 113, concludes that astrology has some reality, in that the stars give a person certain inclinations; however each person has the ability to overcome their own inclinations, and thus maintains free will.\n\nAstrology was practised by some Jews throughout the Middle Ages, both as a professional art and as a science. Coming from the East, Jews were sometimes looked upon as heirs and successors of the Chaldeans. For this reason Jews sometimes were regarded by the Occidental world as masters of Astrology. Their supposed power over destiny on occasion filled the multitudes with awe and fear (Jassuda Bédarride, \"Les Juifs en France,\" pp. 49, 454, note 21; Jacques Basnage, \"Histoire des Juifs\", iv. 1212; P. Cassel, \"Juden\", in Ersch and Gruber's \"Encyc.\" pp. 16, 17; 52, note 78; 67, notes 50 and 51; 115, 171, 224).\n\nAbraham ibn Ezra was a follower of astrology, which he calls \"a sublime science.\" Besides translating another Jewish philosopher Mashallah's astrological work \"Questions\" and another work of this author on the eclipse of the moon from the Arabic into Hebrew, he wrote \"Nativity\", \"Sentences of the Constellations\", \"Reshit Hokhmah\" (\"Beginning of Wisdom\"), \"Book of the World\", a treatise on the \"Planets\", a treatise on the \"Luminaries\", and a horoscope. He often refers to astrology in his Bible commentaries. To him heaven with its constellations is \"the book of life,\" in which man's destiny is written, and against which there is recourse to God as \"the Almighty,\" who overrules all these influences. These remarks may be found in his commentary to Psalms 69:29, Genesis 17:9, and to Exodus 6:3, 33:21. In the book \"Rabbi Abraham Ibn Ezra: Studies in the Writings of a Twelfth-Century Jewish Polymath\" (Harvard, 1993, ), the author of a chapter dealing with Ibn Ezra's astrological views (\"Some Astrological Themes in the Thought of Abraham Ibn Ezra\") states that: \"The gist of the Jewish attitude toward astrology as formulated by Ibn Ezra has usually been understood—in general, correctly—as follows. The deity has delegated to the stars the governance of the sublunar world. Israel [Jews], however, enjoys a special status, which is manifest most decisively in its possession of the Torah. As long as a Jew is engaged in the study and observance of the Torah, he is linked to a spiritual realm which is itself superior to the stars. In this way a Jew may liberate himself from the decrees of the stars\" (p. 49).\n\nDunash ibn Tamim (850-956 CE, North Africa), who wrote a commentary on the Kabbalistic work \"Sefer Yetzirah\", wrote a treatise on astronomy which rejected astrology.\n\nRabbi Abraham ben David of Posquières, in his critical notes to Maimonides' \"Mishneh Torah\", \"Teshuvah\", 5:5, asserts the influence of the stars upon destiny, while also contending that by faith in God man may overcome this influence.\n\nGersonides believed that astrology was real, and developed a naturalistic, non-supernatural explanation of how it works. In \"Philosophies of Judaism\", Julius Guttmann explains that for Gersonides, astrology was:\n\nfounded on the metaphysical doctrine of the dependence of all earthly occurrences upon the heavenly world. The general connection imparted to the prophet by the active intellect is the general order of the astrological constellation. The constellation under which a man is born determines his nature and fate, and constellations as well determine the life span of nations...The active intellect knows the astrological order, from the most general form of the constellations to their last specification, which in turn contains all of the conditions of occurrence of a particular event. Thus, when a prophet deals with the destiny of a particular person or human group, he receives from the active intellect a knowledge of the order of the constellations, and with sufficient precision to enable him to predict its fate in full detail...\nThis astrological determinism has only one limitation. The free will of man could shatter the course of action ordained for him by the stars; prophecy could therefore predict the future on the basis of astrological determination only insofar as the free will of man does not break through the determined course of things.\n\nGersonides believed astrology to be a science that predicts events according to set laws of nature (albeit, a different set than the ones we are used to.) He also believed that a person who has perfected his thinking could interact with the laws of nature through the active intellect. Gersonides thus thought of himself as creating a rationalist and non-supernatural theology. In this sense, there is a similarity between Gersonides and Maimonides.\n\nNahmanides wrote a responsum stating that while one may not ask an astrologer for a prediction, astrology itself is real. He states rules that one must ultimately trust in God, and not in any lesser force. As such, he concludes that one is forbidden to ask an astrologer for a prediction, but one may act on the words of an astrologer if advice is freely given. Ultimately he holds that while the stars give a person certain inclinations, people have the ability to overcome their own inclinations, and thus maintains free will. \n\nMaimonides answered an inquiry concerning astrology, addressed to him from Marseilles. He responded that man should believe only what can be supported either by rational proof, by the evidence of the senses, or by trustworthy authority. He affirms that he has studied astrology and that it does not deserve to be described as a science. The supposition that the fate of a man could be dependent upon the constellations is ridiculed by him; he argues that such a theory would rob life of purpose and would make man a slave of destiny. \n\nIsaac ben Joseph ibn Pulgar (14th century, Spain) was a Jewish philosopher who wrote \"Ezer ha-Dat\" (\"Support of Faith\"), and wrote against the validity of astrology.\n\nIn the \"Tur\", an early code of Jewish law, the author brings forth the views of Nahmanides and Maimonides, and concurs with Nahmanides (\"Yoreh Deah\" 179). A later code of Jewish law, the \"Shulkhan Arukh\" avoids contention by stressing the common point: One may not consult an astrologer; the act is forbidden. Whether or not its author, Yosef Karo, thought that astrology might have some basis in fact is not mentioned in this work (\"Yoreh Deah\" 179:1).\n\nIn \"Derekh Hashem\" Section II, chapter 7, Moshe Chaim Luzzatto discusses the influence of stars on humanity and events on earth. There he gives two reasons for the existence of stars and planets. The first is that stars and planets maintain the existence of all physical things on earth, acting as the means by which spiritual forces are transmitted to physical entities. The second is that events on earth are also initiated through planetary and stellar activity. Luzzatto states that each earthly phenomenon is assigned to a specific star, which controls it. Quoting the Talmudic dictum in \"Sanhedrin\" 156a – \"for Israel, there is no \"mazal\" (\"luck\", literally \"planet\" or \"constellation\")\", he also states that higher powers (i.e. God or angels) may overcome the influences of this system, and that they typically do so for Jews.\n\nLuzzatto notes that the laws and rules governing this system of astrological influence are extremely complex, and not easily ascertainable through direct observation; thus astrologers are rarely able to predict the future accurately or clearly. The accuracy of their predictions is further reduced by the aforementioned propensity of Divine providence to intervene and override the system. This, Luzzatto states, explains the use of the word \"me'asher\" (\"something\") in Isaiah 47:13 (\"Now let the astrologers, stargazers and fortunetellers stand up and tell you something about what will come upon you\"); in Luzzatto's view, this means they can tell you \"something\" about the future, but not everything.\n\nStrictures against astrology appear in the official Torah commentary of Conservative Judaism and on the official website of Reform Judaism, and a number of Conservative and Reform rabbis have written against the practice. Meanwhile, the traditionalist stance of Orthodoxy and Modern Orthodoxy maintain the guideline established in Karo's Shulchan Aruch.\n\nCommenting on Deuteronomy 18:9-12, \"Etz Hayim\", the official Torah commentary of Conservative Judaism writes \"Hence the use of astrology is prohibited (BT Pesachim 113b).\" Similarly, Simchah Roth, a Conservative rabbi comments negatively on astrology in his \"Halakhah Study Group\" session. (Halakhah Study Group, Nov. 18 2003, Bet Midrash Virtuali)\n\nConservative Rabbi Aaron Kriegel writes:\nOn the Union for Reform Judaism website Jeffrey K. Salkin derides astrology as \"a new-age trap\":\nModern Orthodox rabbis have written against the practice as well, some seeing it as forbidden by Jewish law. For instance, \nModern Orthodox Rabbi Ephraim Buchwald writes:\nThe Chief Rabbi of the United Kingdom (Orthodox) Jonathan Sacks, writes:\n\nIn contrast, Modern Orthodox Rabbi Nachum Amsel writes:\n\"The Significance of Astrology in Judaism\" is an article along these lines from the Orthodox Union. This article concisely puts this issue into perspective.\nAryeh Kaplan, known for his rationalist synthesis of modern scientific thinking and Kabbalah, and creator of a modern translation of \"Derekh Hashem\", echoes the viewpoint of its author (Moshe Chaim Luzzatto) on astrology. In his translation of and commentary on \"Sefer Yetzirah\", Kaplan writes:\nHowever, Kaplan also writes,\nKabbalistic astrology, also called \"mazal\" or \"mazalot\", (\"zodiac,\" \"destiny\") is a system of astrology based upon the kabbalah. It is used to interpret and delineate a person's birth chart, seeking to understand it through a kabbalistic lens.\n\nMost astrologers cast and use horoscopes to depict planetary placements which are believed to influence daily activities. Kabbalistic astrologers tend to take a slightly different approach because they wish to observe the planets as they relate to each \"sephira\" in the Tree of Life.\n\nEach \"sephira\" points to a specific character trait. Each \"sephira\" in the trestleboard corresponds with a specific planet and is therefore closely aligned with the celestial art of astrology.\n\nEach of the ten \"sephirot\" corresponds to an astrological feature. These astrological correspondences exist in the world of Assiah, the lowest of the Four Worlds of kabbalah.\n\nThe ancient Hebrews were well aware of the Sun, Moon, and five planets seen with the naked eye and Hebrew mysticism recognized their great importance. Therefore, along with the 4 lunar phases being slightly over 7 days (~7.4 days) each, the number 7 was held in very high regard. The Torah reflects this with \"Bereshis 1:1\" (Book of Genesis \"1:1\") being 7 words and 28 letters (7x4) in its original Hebrew. This is known as \"God's signature\".\n\n\"Genesis 1:14, \"And God said, 'Let there be lights in the heavens to separate the day from the night, and let them serve as signs to mark seasons, days, years and festivals'...the 4th day (of 7).\"\" The #7 is the great recurring numerical theme of the Hebrew (and Christian) scriptures. The menorah's 7 lamps on 4 branches correspond to the lights of the 7 Classical planets: Moon, Mercury, Venus, Sun (4th), Mars, Jupiter, and Saturn.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "780529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=780529", "title": "John Howard Pyle", "text": "John Howard Pyle\n\nJohn Howard Pyle (March 25, 1906 – November 29, 1987) was the ninth governor of the U.S. state of Arizona, serving from 1951 to 1955. He was a Republican. A 1930 graduate of Arizona State University, he also was a member of Lambda Chi Alpha fraternity.\n\nBorn in 1906 in Sheridan, Wyoming, Pyle was the first governor of Arizona to be born in the 20th century and was the Program Director of KFAD (now KTAR) Radio in Phoenix from 1930 to 1951. He also served as a war correspondent during World War II and covered the surrender ceremony of the Japanese. Pyle defeated pioneering female politician Ana Frohmiller in his 1950 campaign for governor. He served as Governor of Arizona from 1951 to 1955.\n\nIn 1953, he attempted to break up a polygamous fundamentalist Mormon compound in Colorado City, Arizona, in what became known as the \"Short Creek Raid\", which resulted in two dozen men arrested and 236 children placed in foster homes. This move alienated many voters in the state after photographs of tearful children being forcibly removed from their distraught mothers appeared in the newspapers. Later citing the negative reaction by the voters to the Short Creek raid as the cause, Pyle subsequently lost his 1954 re-election bid for a third term to his Democratic opponent, former Senate Majority Leader Ernest McFarland and left office in January 1955.\n\nAfter his governorship ended Pyle joined the Eisenhower administration as Deputy Assistant to the President, working primarily as a policy liaison responsible for the Joint Federal-State Action Committee promoting stronger, more responsible local government. He resigned in 1959 to accept an appointment as president of the National Safety Council. Pyle retired in 1953 and returned to his home in Tempe, where he became active in community affairs and authored a popular newspaper column.\nHe received honorary LL.D. degrees from University of Redlands, Chapman University, Arizona State University, Lebanon College and Bradley University.\n\nPyle died on November 29, 1987 in Tempe, Arizona, survived by his wife, Lucile, and two daughters.and is buried there in the Double Butte Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "14017331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14017331", "title": "Jupiter Column", "text": "Jupiter Column\n\nA Jupiter Column ( or ) is an archaeological monument belonging to a type widespread in Roman Germania. Such pillars express the religious beliefs of their time. They were erected in the 2nd and 3rd centuries AD, mostly near Roman settlements or villas in the Germanic provinces. Some examples also occur in Gaul and Britain.\n\nThe base of the monuments was normally formed by a \"Viergötterstein\" (four gods stone), in itself a common monument type, usually depicting Juno, Minerva, Mercury and Hercules. This would support a \"Wochengötterstein\" (a carving depicting the personifications of the seven days of the week), which, in turn, supported a column or pillar, normally decorated with a scale pattern. The column was crowned with a statue of Jupiter, usually on horseback, trampling a Giant (usually depicted as a snake). In some cases (e.g. at Walheim), the column capital is decorated with four heads, usually interpreted as depictions of the four times of day (morning, midday, evening, night). The total height of a Jupiter Column is normally around 4 m, but some examples are taller, e.g. a famous example at Mainz with a height of more than 9 m.\n\nThe columns in Upper Germany normally depict Jupiter defeating a Giant, as described above, and are thus known as \"Jupitergigantensäulen\" (\"Jupiter-Giant-Columns\"). In Lower Germany, Jupiter is normally depicted enthroned without the Giant; those monuments are commonly described simply as \"Jupitersäulen\" (\"Jupiter Columns\").\n\nThe pillars were often placed within a walled enclosure and accompanied by an altar.\n\nNo such monument has survived intact. They are known from excavated finds or from secondary use as spolia, e.g. in Christian churches. Recently, reconstructions of some Jupiter Columns have been erected at or near where they were found, e.g. in Ladenburg, Obernburg, Benningen am Neckar, Sinsheim, Stuttgart, Mainz and near the Saalburg.\n\nAccording to the historian Greg Woolf, the pillars depict the victory of Jupiter Optimus Maximus over the forces of Chaos, the god himself being raised high above the other gods and humankind, but closely linked with them. Woolf sees most such monuments as dedications by individuals.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6260872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6260872", "title": "Kikayon", "text": "Kikayon\n\nKikayon (קִיקָיוֹן) is the Hebrew name of a plant mentioned in the Biblical Book of Jonah.\n\nThe first use of the term \"kikayon\" is in the biblical book of \"Jonah\", Chapter 4. In the quote below, from the Jewish Publication Society translation of 1917, the English word 'gourd' occurs where the Hebrew has \"kikayon.\"\n6 And the LORD God prepared a gourd, and made it to come up over Jonah, that it might be a shadow over his head, to deliver him from his evil. So Jonah was exceeding glad because of the gourd. 7 But God prepared a worm when the morning rose the next day, and it smote the gourd, that it withered. 8 And it came to pass, when the sun arose, that God prepared a vehement east wind; and the sun beat upon the head of Jonah, that he fainted, and requested for himself that he might die, and said: ‘It is better for me to die than to live.’ 9 And God said to Jonah: ‘Art thou greatly angry for the gourd?’ And he said: ‘I am greatly angry, even unto death.’ 10 And the LORD said: ‘Thou hast had pity on the gourd, for which thou hast not laboured, neither madest it grow, which came up in a night, and perished in a night; 11 and should not I have pity on Nineveh, that great city, wherein are more than sixscore thousand persons that cannot discern between their right hand and their left hand, and also much cattle?’\n\n--Jonah 4:6-11\n\nThe word \"kikayon\" is only referenced in the book of Jonah and there is some question as to what kind of plant it is. Some hypotheses include a gourd and a castor oil plant.\nThe current Hebrew usage of the word refers to the castor oil plant.\nA well-known argument between Jerome and Augustine concerned whether to translate \"kikayon\" as \"gourd\" or \"ivy\", although Jerome indicates that in fact the plant is neither:\n"}
{"id": "581024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581024", "title": "Kirat Karo", "text": "Kirat Karo\n\nKirat Karō is one of the Three pillars of Sikhism, the others being Naam Japo and Vaṇḍ chakkō. The term means to earn an honest, pure and dedicated living by exercising one's God-given skills, abilities, talents and hard labour for the benefit and improvement of the individual, their family and society at large. This means to work with determination and focus by the sweat of one's brow and not to be lazy and to waste one's life to time. Meanwhile, \"Simran\" and dedication to the work of God, not personal gain, should be one's main motivation.\n\nThere are some jobs which aren't allowed in Sikhism, such as a worker in brothels, prostitute, fortune-teller, astrologer, worker in taverns and pubs, worker in places were gambling is dealt, and many more. \n\nIn the Guru Granth Sahib, Guru Nanak Dev ji says: \"Those who have meditated on the Naam, the Name of the Lord, and departed after having worked by the sweat of their brows\n-O Nanak, their faces are radiant in the Court of the Lord, and many are saved along with them!\"\n\nOther relevant passages: \n\n"}
{"id": "24386417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24386417", "title": "Lincoln Theological Institute for the Study of Religion and Society", "text": "Lincoln Theological Institute for the Study of Religion and Society\n\nThe Lincoln Theological Institute for the Study of Religion and Society (Lincoln Theological Institute), established in 1997, is a research centre at the University of Manchester, UK. Its research focuses on theology, faith and society.\n\nFounded in 1997 as the successor body to Lincoln Theological College, the Lincoln Theological Institute was initially located at the University of Sheffield. In 2003, the Lincoln Theological Institute moved to the Department of Religions and Theology at the University of Manchester. The Institute's first director, appointed in 1997, was Martyn Percy. He left in 2004 to become Principal at Ripon College Cuddesdon. He was succeeded in 2005 by Peter Manley Scott, who joined from the University of Gloucestershire.\n\nThe Lincoln Theological Institute charity (chaired by Rt Revd Stephen Platten, Bishop of Wakefield), funds the research activities of the Institute. It owns Chad Varah House on Drury Lane, Lincoln, the building occupied by Lincoln Theological College until it closed in 1995.\n\n\nThe Lincoln Theological Institute also has a number of affiliated honorary research fellows and doctoral students.\n\nThe Lincoln Theological Institute's research has taken place across a number of projects focusing on themes including place, location, habitation and ecology; global threats and powers; religion and civil society; technology, limits and transformation; power and institutions (including the Church); liberation, political, ecological and public theologies; and culture - including religious cultures - and sources of hope.\n\nMajor projects have included:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "210529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=210529", "title": "List of Catholic dioceses in Ireland", "text": "List of Catholic dioceses in Ireland\n\nThis is a comprehensive list of Roman Catholic dioceses in the island of Ireland. Roman Catholicism in Ireland comprises only a Latin rite hierarchy, encompassing both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland, having been unaffected by the partition of Ireland in 1920–22. There are no Eastern Catholic jurisdictions, nor other exempt Ordinariates.\n\nThere are in total 26 dioceses in Ireland, each led by a diocesan bishop (including four Metropolitan Archdioceses, one per ancient province), joined in a binational Irish Episcopal Conference, based in the primas Armagh. \n\nThe diocesan system of Christian church government in Ireland was set up by the Synod of Rathbreasail in 1111 and modified by the Synod of Kells in 1152, replacing the earlier Celtic Christian monastic model. The island of Ireland is divided into four ecclesiastical provinces each headed by a metropolitan archbishop. The provinces were almost co-extensive with their contemporary civil counterparts. After the \nReformation in Ireland, both the Protestant Church of Ireland and the Roman Catholic Church saw themselves as successors to the pre-Reformation church. Most bishops were non-resident during the enforcement of the Penal Laws, but the dioceses continued to exist. Whereas English Catholic dioceses were forbidden by law from having the same name as a diocese of the established Church of England, no such prohibition was made for Irish dioceses. \n\nThe Roman Catholic dioceses remained close to the original, with a few notable differences. Firstly, several dioceses with small populations were merged, and now have more than one name to represent their merger. Secondly, the Diocese of Galway was created in 1831 following the abolition of the Wardenship of Galway. \n\nDr. James Butler 2nd, the Archbishop of Cashel and Emly (1774–91), on being appointed by Rome moved his residence and cathedra from Cashel, favouring Thurles instead, where his successors continue to reign today. Similarly, in the Diocese of Elphin, the Cathedral, which was originally established in the County Roscommon town of Elphin, is now in Sligo.\n\nAnother change is that the ancient see of Kilfenora has been administered by the Bishop of Galway in the province of Tuam since the late 19th Century. The correct title of the Bishop is now the Bishop of Galway and Kilmacduagh and Apostolic Administrator of Kilfenora. More recently, the Diocese of Ross merged with the Diocese of Cork to form the Diocese of Cork and Ross in the 1950s.\n\nUnlike many (European) countries, the boundaries of the Roman Catholic dioceses in Ireland do not conform with the political border between the Republic of Ireland (independent) and Northern Ireland (part of the UK). One archdiocese and three dioceses straddle the international border; two dioceses are wholly in Northern Ireland.\n\n\nApproximating the civil province of Ulster; mainly in Northern Ireland.\n\n\nApproximating the civil province of Munster.\n\nApproximating the civil province of Leinster.\n\n\nApproximating the civil province of Connacht.\n\nAs the Diocese of Kilfenora is in the Ecclesiastical province of Cashel, the Bishop of Galway and Kilmacduagh is its apostolic administrator rather than bishop.\n\nThere are seventeen titular sees in Ireland (of which two are united in personal union with current sees): Ardcarne, Ardmore, Ath Truim, Ceanannus Mór, Cell Ausaille, Cill Fhionnúrach (united with Galway and Kilmacduagh), Clonmacnoise (united with Diocese of Ardagh), Cluain Iraird, Cunga Féichin, Domnach Sechnaill, Duleek, Eanach Dúin, Glenndálocha, Inis Cathaig, Louth, Mageó, Roscrea, Slebte, Árd Sratha (formerly as Ardstraw an abbey nullius becoming a diocese, merged into Diocese of Cinél nEógain and Ardstraw; territory now in diocese Derry).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44444779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44444779", "title": "List of Malankara Metropolitans", "text": "List of Malankara Metropolitans\n\nThis is a list of Malankara Metropolitans.\n"}
{"id": "39819780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39819780", "title": "List of Natchathara temples", "text": "List of Natchathara temples\n\nThis is a list of Natchathara (Stars) Temples of Hindus. These temples are also called Nakshathiram Temples or Birth Star Temples.\n"}
{"id": "33873023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33873023", "title": "List of largest Eastern Orthodox church buildings", "text": "List of largest Eastern Orthodox church buildings\n\nThis is a list of the largest Eastern Orthodox church buildings in the world, based on area and capacity. Any Eastern Orthodox church building that has a capacity of 5,000 people, can be added to this page. The church building are listed in alphabetical order according to country. The churches are from various jurisdictions of the Eastern Orthodox Church.\n\nThe largest Orthodox church in the world by size is the People's Salvation Cathedral in Bucharest. Saint Isaac's Cathedral is larger than the People's Salvation Cathedral by size, but it is not entirely a church.\n\n"}
{"id": "50220657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220657", "title": "List of mosques in Tunisia", "text": "List of mosques in Tunisia\n\nThis is a list of mosques in Tunisia. According to the data by the Ministry of Religious Affairs in December 2015, there are 5,470 mosques in Tunisia as a whole, among which 4,299 are Jami Masjids which conduct Friday Prayer and 1,171 are smaller mosques. The city of Sfax has highest number of mosques, with 418 Jama Masjids and 88 smaller mosques. The city of Djerba contains 380 mosques, among which 20 are underground mosques.\n\n"}
{"id": "2399768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2399768", "title": "List of new religious movements", "text": "List of new religious movements\n\nA new religious movement (NRM) is a religious, ethical, or spiritual group or community with practices of relatively modern origins. NRMs may be novel in origin or they may exist on the fringes of a wider religion, in which case they will be distinct from pre-existing denominations. Academics identify a variety of characteristics which they employ in categorizing groups as new religious movements. The term is broad and inclusive, rather than sharply defined. New religious movements are generally seen as syncretic, employing human and material assets to disseminate their ideas and worldviews, deviating in some degree from a society's traditional forms or doctrines, focused especially upon the self, and having a peripheral relationship that exists in a state of tension with established societal conventions.\n\nAn NRM may be one of a wide range of movements ranging from those with loose affiliations based on novel approaches to spirituality or religion to communitarian enterprises that demand a considerable amount of group conformity and a social identity that separates their adherents from mainstream society. Use of the term NRM is not universally accepted among the groups to which it is applied. Scholars have estimated that NRMs now number in the tens of thousands worldwide, with most in Asia and Africa. Most have only a few members, some have thousands, and very few have more than a million. Academics occasionally propose amendments to technical definitions and continue to add new groups.\n\n! scope=\"col\" | Name\n! scope=\"col\" | Founder\n! scope=\"col\" | Year founded\n! scope=\"col\" | Type\n<!--| Karma Triyana Dharmachakra\n"}
{"id": "578142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=578142", "title": "M. Scott Peck", "text": "M. Scott Peck\n\nMorgan Scott Peck (May 22, 1936 – September 25, 2005) was an American psychiatrist and best-selling author who wrote the book \"The Road Less Traveled\", published in 1978.\n\nPeck was born in New York City, the son of Zabeth (née Saville) and David Warner Peck, an attorney and judge. His parents were Quakers. Peck was raised a Protestant (his paternal grandmother was from a Jewish family, but Peck's father identified himself as a WASP and not as Jewish).\n\nHis parents sent him to the prestigious boarding school Phillips Exeter Academy in Exeter, New Hampshire, when he was 13. In his book, \"The Road Less Traveled\", he confides the story of his brief stay at Exeter, and admits that it was a most miserable time. Finally, at age 15, during the spring holiday of his third year, he came home and refused to return to the school, whereupon his parents sought psychiatric help for him and he was (much to his amusement in later life) diagnosed with depression and recommended for a month's stay in a psychiatric hospital (unless he chose to return to school). He then transferred to Friends Seminary (a private K-12 school) in late 1952, and graduated in 1954, after which he received a BA from Harvard in 1958, and an MD degree from Case Western Reserve University in 1963.\n\nPeck served in administrative posts in the government during his career as a psychiatrist. He also served in the U.S. Army and rose to the rank of lieutenant colonel. His Army assignments included stints as chief of psychology at the Army Medical Center in Okinawa, Japan, and assistant chief of psychiatry and neurology in the office of the surgeon general in Washington, D.C. He was the Medical Director of the New Milford Hospital Mental Health Clinic and a psychiatrist in private practice in New Milford, Connecticut. His first and best-known book, \"The Road Less Traveled\", sold more than ten million copies.\n\nPeck's works combined his experiences from his private psychiatric practice with a distinctly religious point of view. In his second book, \"People of the Lie\", he wrote, \"After many years of vague identification with Buddhist and Islamic mysticism, I ultimately made a firm Christian commitment – signified by my non-denominational baptism on the ninth of March 1980...\" (Peck, 1983/1988, p11). One of his views was that people who are evil attack others rather than face their own failures.\n\nIn December 1984, Peck co-founded the Foundation for Community Encouragement (FCE), a tax-exempt, nonprofit, public educational foundation, whose stated mission is \"to teach the principles of community to individuals and organizations.\" FCE ceased day-to-day operations from 2002 to 2009. In late 2009, almost 25 years after FCE was first founded, the organization resumed functioning, and began offering community building and training events in 2010.\n\nPeck married Lily Ho in 1959, and they had three children. In 1994, they jointly received the Community of Christ International Peace Award. In 2004, they were separated and later divorced. Peck then married Kathleen Kline Yates.\n\nWhile Peck's writings emphasized the virtues of a disciplined life and delayed gratification, his personal life was far more turbulent. For example, in his book \"In Search of Stones\", Peck acknowledged having extramarital affairs and being estranged from two of his children.\n\nPeck died at his home in Connecticut on September 25, 2005, after suffering from Parkinson's disease and pancreatic and liver duct cancer. Fuller Theological Seminary houses the archives of his publications, awards, and correspondence.\n\n\"The Road Less Traveled\", published in 1978, is Peck's best-known work, and the one that made his reputation. It is, in short, a description of the attributes that make for a fulfilled human being, based largely on his experiences as a psychiatrist and a person.\n\nThe book consists of four parts. In the first part Peck examines the notion of discipline, which he considers essential for emotional, spiritual, and psychological health, and which he describes as \"the means of spiritual evolution\". The elements of discipline that make for such health include the ability to delay gratification, accepting responsibility for oneself and one's actions, a dedication to truth, and \"balancing\". \"Balancing\" refers to the problem of reconciling multiple, complex, possibly conflicting factors that impact on an important decision—on one's own behalf or on behalf of another.\n\nIn the second part, Peck addresses the nature of love, which he considers the driving force behind spiritual growth. He contrasts his own views on the nature of love against a number of common misconceptions about love, including:\nPeck argues that \"true\" love is rather an \"action\" that one undertakes \"consciously\" in order to extend one's ego boundaries by including others or humanity, and is therefore the spiritual nurturing—which can be directed toward oneself, as well as toward one's beloved.\n\nIn the third part Peck deals with religion, and the commonly accepted views and misconceptions concerning religion. He recounts experiences from several patient case histories, and the evolution of the patients' notion of God, religion, atheism—especially of their own \"religiosity\" or atheism—as their therapy with Peck progressed.\n\nThe fourth and final part concerns \"grace\", the powerful force originating outside human consciousness that nurtures spiritual growth in human beings. In order to focus on the topic, he describes the miracles of health, the unconscious, and serendipity—phenomena which Peck says:\n\nHe concludes that \"the miracles described indicate that our growth as human beings is being assisted by a force other than our conscious will\" (Peck, 1978/1992, p281).\n\nRandom House, where the then little-known psychiatrist first tried to publish his original manuscript, turned him down, saying the final section was \"too Christ-y.\" Thereafter, Simon & Schuster published the work for $7,500 and printed a modest hardback run of 5,000 copies. The book took off only after Peck hit the lecture circuit and personally sought reviews in key publications. Later reprinted in paperback in 1980, \"The Road\" first made best-seller lists in 1984 – six years after its initial publication.\n\nIn \"The Road Less Traveled\", Peck wrote of the importance of discipline. He described four aspects of discipline:\n\n\nPeck’s book begins with the statement \"Life is difficult\" (Peck, 1978/1992, p13). Peck argues that life was never meant to be easy, and is essentially a series of problems which can either be solved or ignored.\n\nPeck defines discipline as the basic set of tools required to solve life’s problems. He considers these tools to include delaying gratification, assuming responsibility, dedication to the truth, and balancing. Peck argues that these are techniques of suffering, that enable the pain of problems to be worked through and systematically solved, producing growth. He argues that most people avoid the pain of dealing with their problems and suggests that it is through facing the pain of problem solving that life becomes more meaningful.\n\nDelaying gratification is the process by which pain is chosen to be experienced before pleasure. Most learn this activity by the age of five. For example, a six-year-old child will prefer eating the cake first and the frosting last. Children will rather finish their homework first, so that they can play later on. However, a sizable number of adolescents seem to lack this capacity. These problematic students are totally controlled by their impulses. Such youngsters indulge in drugs, get into frequent fights, and often find themselves in confrontation with authority.\n\nPeck states that it is only through taking responsibility and accepting the fact that life has problems, that these problems can then be solved. He argues that neurosis and character-disorder people represent two opposite disorders of responsibility. Neurotics assume too much responsibility and feel responsible for everything that goes wrong in their life, while character-disordered people deny responsibility, blaming others for their problems. Peck writes in the Road Less Traveled that \"It is said ‘neurotics make themselves miserable; those with character disorders make everyone else miserable’\" (Peck, 1978/1992, p38). Peck argues that everyone is neurotic or character-disordered at some time in their life, and the balance is to avoid both extremes.\n\nDedication to the truth represents the capacity of an individual to modify and update their worldview when exposed to new information discordant with the old view. For example, a bitter childhood can leave a person with the false idea that the world is a hostile and inhuman place. However, with continued exposure to more positive aspects of the world, this existing worldview is challenged and needs to be modified to integrate the new experiences. Peck also argues that dedication to truth implies a life of genuine self-examination, a willingness to be personally challenged by others, and honesty to oneself and others.\n\nPeck considers the use of these interrelated techniques of discipline as paramount, if the difficulties and conflicting requirements of life are to be dealt with and balanced successfully.\n\nPeck believes that it is only through suffering and agonizing using the four aspects of discipline (delaying gratification, acceptance of responsibility, dedication to truth, and balancing) that we can resolve the many puzzles and conflicts that we face. This is what he calls undertaking \"legitimate suffering\". Peck argues that by trying to avoid legitimate suffering, people actually ultimately end up suffering more. This extra unnecessary suffering is what Scott Peck terms \"neurotic suffering\". He references Carl Jung 'Neurosis is always a substitute for legitimate suffering'. Peck says that our aim must be to eliminate neurotic suffering and to work through our legitimate suffering in order to achieve our individual goals.\n\nFirst published in 1983, \"People of the Lie: The Hope For Healing Human Evil\" () followed on from Peck's first book. Peck describes the stories of several people who came to him whom he found particularly resistant to any form of help. He came to think of them as evil and goes on to describe the characteristics of evil in psychological terms, proposing that it could become a psychiatric diagnosis.\n\nPeck discusses evil in his book \"People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil\", and also in a chapter of \"The Road Less Traveled\". Peck characterizes evil as a malignant type of self-righteousness in which there is an active rather than passive refusal to tolerate imperfection (sin) and its consequent guilt. This syndrome results in a projection of evil onto selected specific innocent victims (often children), which is the paradoxical mechanism by which the People of the Lie commit their evil. Peck argues that these people are the most difficult of all to deal with, and extremely hard to identify. He describes in some detail several individual cases involving his patients. In one case which Peck considers as the most typical because of its subtlety, he describes Roger, a depressed teenage son of respected, well off parents. In a series of parental decisions justified by often subtle distortions of the truth, they exhibit a consistent disregard for their son's feelings, and a consistent willingness to destroy his growth. With false rationality and normality, they aggressively refuse to consider that they are in any way responsible for his resultant depression, eventually suggesting his condition must be incurable and genetic.\n\nSome of his conclusions about the psychiatric condition that he designates as \"evil\" are derived from his close study of one patient he names Charlene. Although Charlene is not dangerous, she is ultimately unable to have empathy for others in any way. According to Peck, people like her see others as play things or tools to be manipulated for their own uses or entertainment. Peck states that these people are rarely seen by psychiatrists, and have never been treated successfully.\n\nEvil is described by Peck as \"militant ignorance\". The original Judeo-Christian concept of \"sin\" is as a process that leads us to \"miss the mark\" and fall short of perfection. Peck argues that while most people are conscious of this, at least on some level, those that are evil actively and militantly refuse this consciousness. Peck considers those he calls evil to be attempting to escape and hide from their own conscience (through self-deception), and views this as being quite distinct from the apparent absence of conscience evident in sociopathy.\n\nAccording to Peck an evil person:\n\nMost evil people realize the evil deep within themselves but are unable to \"tolerate the pain of introspection\", or admit to themselves that they are evil. Thus, they constantly run away from their evil by putting themselves in a position of \"moral superiority\" and putting the focus of evil on others. Evil is an extreme form of what Scott Peck, in \"The Road Less Traveled\", calls a character and personality disorder.\n\nUsing the My Lai Massacre as a case study Peck also examines group evil, discussing how human group morality is strikingly less than individual morality. Partly, he considers this to be a result of specialization, which allows people to avoid individual responsibility and pass the buck, resulting in a reduction of group conscience.\n\nThough the topic of evil has historically been the domain of religion, Peck makes great efforts to keep much of his discussion on a scientific basis, explaining the specific psychological mechanisms by which evil operates. He was also particularly conscious of the danger of a psychology of evil being misused for personal or political ends. Peck considered that such a psychology should be used with great care, as falsely labeling people as evil is one of the very characteristics of evil. He argued that a diagnosis of evil should come from the standpoint of healing and safety for its victims, but also with the possibility even if remote, that the evil themselves may be cured.\n\nUltimately Peck says that evil arises out of free choice. He describes it thus: Every person stands at a crossroads, with one path leading to God, and the other path leading to the devil. The path of God is the right path, and accepting this path is akin to submission to a higher power. However, if a person wants to convince himself and others that he has free choice, he would rather take a path which cannot be attributed to its being the right path. Thus, he chooses the path of evil.\n\nPeck also discussed the question of the devil. Initially he believed, as with ‘99% of psychiatrists and the majority of clergy’ (Peck, 1983/1988, p182), that the devil did not exist; but, after starting to believe in the reality of human evil, he then began to contemplate the reality of spiritual evil. Eventually, after having been referred several possible cases of possession and being involved in two exorcisms, he was converted to a belief in the existence of Satan. Peck considered people who are possessed as being victims of evil, but of not being evil themselves. Peck however considered possession to be rare, and human evil common. He did believe there was some relationship between Satan and human evil, but was unsure of its exact nature. Peck's writings and views on possession and exorcism are to some extent influenced and based on specific accounts by Malachi Martin, however the veracity of these accounts and Peck's own diagnostic approach to possession have both since been questioned by a Catholic priest who is a professor of theology. It has been argued that it is not possible to find formal records to establish the veracity of Father Malachi Martin's described cases of possession, as all exorcism files are sealed by the Archdiocese of New York, where all but one of the cases took place.\n\nHis perspective on love (in \"The Road Less Traveled\") is that love is not a \"feeling\", it is an \"activity\" and an \"investment\". He defines love as, \"The will to extend one's self for the purpose of nurturing one's own or another's spiritual growth\" (Peck, 1978/1992, p85). Love is primarily actions towards nurturing the spiritual growth of another.\n\nPeck seeks to differentiate between love and cathexis. Cathexis is what explains sexual attraction, the instinct for cuddling pets and pinching babies cheeks. However, cathexis is not love. All the same, true love cannot begin in isolation, a certain amount of cathexis is necessary to get sufficiently close to be able to truly love.\n\nOnce through the cathexis stage, the work of love begins. It is not a feeling. It consists of what you do for another person. As Peck says in \"The Road Less Traveled\", \"Love is as love does.\" It is about giving yourself and the other person what they need to grow. It is about truly knowing and understanding them.\n\nPeck postulates that there are four stages of human spiritual development:\n\n\nPeck argues that while transitions from Stage I to Stage II are sharp, transitions from Stage III to Stage IV are gradual. Nonetheless, these changes are very noticeable and mark a significant difference in the personality of the individual.\n\nIn his book \"The Different Drum: Community Making and Peace\", Peck says that community has three essential ingredients:\n\n\nBased on his experience with community building workshops, Peck says that community building typically goes through four stages:\n\n\nThe four stages of community formation are somewhat related to a model in organization theory for the five stages that a team goes through during development. These five stages are:\n\n\nIt is in this third stage that Peck's community-building methods differ in principle from team development. While teams in business organizations need to develop explicit rules, guidelines and protocols during the \"norming\" stage, the \"emptiness\" stage of community building is characterized, not by laying down the rules explicitly, but by shedding the resistance within the minds of the individuals.\n\nPeck started the Foundation for Community Encouragement (FCE) to promote the formation of communities, which, he argues, are a first step towards uniting humanity and saving us from self-destruction.\n\nThe Blue Heron Farm is an intentional community in central North Carolina, whose founders stated that they were inspired by Peck's writings on community. Peck himself had no involvement with this project.\n\nThe Exosphere Academy of Science & the Arts uses community building in their teaching methodology to help students practice deeper communication, remove their \"masks,\" and feel more comfortable collaborating and building innovative projects and startups. \n\nPeck describes what he considers to be the most salient characteristics of a true community:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49077899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49077899", "title": "Mari ibn Suleiman", "text": "Mari ibn Suleiman\n\nMari ibn Suleiman or Sulaiman ( also known as , \"Amru ibn Matta\") was a 12th-century Nestorian Christian author writing in Arabic.\n\nNothing is known of his life. He is the author of a theological and historiographical work known as the Book of the Tower (\"Kitāb al-Majdal\").\nThe work consists of seven parts.\nThe first is a general introduction, the second a theological treatise on Nestorian Christology, the third discusses Baptism and Eucharist, the fourth the seven virtues (piety, charity, prayer, fasting, pity, humility, chastity), the fifth on the \"seven pillars\" of Creation, Last Judgement, the Prophecies, the coming of the Messiah, the history of the Eastern Church, the history of heresies, and the canon of biblical texts. The sixth part presents the four \"moats\" of the Tower, as prayer, the observation of the Day of the Lord, candles and incense, and penitence.\nThe seventh part describes the \"gardens\" of the Tower, where Christians, liberated from the obligations of Mosaic law, may repose.\n\nThe main interest of the work in modern scholarship is the historiographical material in its fifth part, an important testimony of the 11th to 12th-century history of the Eastern Church. The work can be dated approximately from the fact that the history ends with patriarch Abdisho III (r. 1139–1148), suggesting a composition in the 1140s.\n\nIn the 14th century, another author, Amr ibn Matta, imitated the work, and the two works have often been confused, even in their manuscripts.\nThe main manuscript for the work is Paris arab. 190 (13th century), besides Paris arab. 191 and 192 (14th century). Three further manuscripts are in the Vatican, one in London.\n\n"}
{"id": "18389282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18389282", "title": "Meherji Rana", "text": "Meherji Rana\n\nThe first Dastur Meherji Rana, sometimes known as Mayyaji Rana, was the undisputed spiritual leader of the Parsi community in India during the sixteenth century. He was renowned not just among the Parsis but also other communities on account of his piety, vast knowledge and spiritual powers.\n\nDastur Meherji was born in a priestly family at Navsari, in 1514. His father's name was Rana Jesung (thus the name Meherji Rana). India at that time was under the rule of the Mughals.\n\nAccording to one school of thought Dastur Meherji was a disciple of the mystic saint Dastur Azar Kayvan whose seat was in Patna. Dastur Azar Kaiwan's disciples were called 'yaar' (i.e. spiritual friend / spiritual helper). Thus Dastur Meherji is sometimes referred as Dastur Mahiyaar ('Mahi' being the fish that can see the smallest piece of object even when it Is dark).\n\nDastur Meherji was adopted by his paternal Uncle Vaccha Jesung . It is for this reason that in our ceremonies his name is invoked as \"Dastur Meherji, Ervad Vaccha\",'\n\nIt appears the behdins of Navsari presented a piece of land near 'Piplla Wadi' in 1573 to Dastur Meherji in recognition of his service to the religion and community. Dastur Meherji Rana is a renowned name in Parsi history and religious tradition mainly because of his very positive influence on the Mughal Emperor, Akbar the Great. Akbar was born in 1542 and ascended the throne in 1556 at the age of fourteen. Akbar had great love for matters spiritual and philosophical. Although a Muslim by birth, he was very secular in his outlook and loved to discuss and understand other religious traditions. Hindu Brahmins and Christian priests would often be invited to his court for religious discussion.\n\nIt appears, however, that Dastur Meherji had a deep and lasting influence on Akbar. It is believed Akbar first met Dastur Meherji in 1573 when the former laid siege on Surat. They appear to have met at a place near Kankrakhadi (present day Rustompura in Surat). Impressed with Dastur Meherji's knowledge and personality the Emperor invited Dasturji to his court in Delhi. Accordingly, Dastur Meherji appears to have visited the Royal Court of Akbar in Delhi off Roj Hormazd, Mah Khordod 947 Y.Z. (1578 AD). Akbar's Prime Minister Abu Fazal and historian Badaoqi also have written about Parsi Priests from Navsari visiting the Royal Court around 1577-1578.\n\nPleased as the Emperor was with Dastur Meherji's erudition and piety he gave 200 vighas of land near 'Gelkhari' in Gujarat, (free of all taxes) for Meherji Rana and his family's sustenance. It was called \"Madad-e-Maash\".\n\nAkbar was a Sufi at heart and liked to absorb the good traditions and beliefs of all religions. He also attempted to popularize a new faith called 'Din-e-Illahi', drawing from the beliefs and traditions of various faiths including Zoroastrianism.\n\nIt is said Akbar had a fire burning 24 hours at his court and his Prime Minister Abu Fazal was put in charge of maintaining the fire.\n\nDastur Meherji Rana's prominence and close affinity to the Emperor gave the Parsis as a community national visibility and lame.\n\nIn 1579, the priests of Navsari signed a document acknowledging Meherji Rana as their leader and declaring that all religious ceremonies would henceforth be performed only after obtaining his permission. This was the origin of the 'gaadi' (seat) of the High Priest of Navsari. The present High Priest KaiKhooshroo Navroze MeherjiRana is the seventeenth heir to this famous 'gaadi'.\n\nLegend has it that during Dastur Meherji's stay in Delhi a Hindu Tantrik (magician) claimed that with his occult powers he would make two suns shine in the sky. He challenged all holy men in Akbar's kingdom to respond to this 'miracle'. It appears that the magician with the aid of certain spells had launched a metal plate in the sky and the sun's reflection made it appear as If there were two suns in the sky.\n\nNobody was aware of this trick and attempts by many holy men to thwart the magician failed. However, Dasturjee Meherji Rana arrived, prayed the sacred Kusti prayers and took the name of God. The plate came crashing down, confounding the magician and amazing the whole court.\n\nInspired by the drama that unfolded the famous musician Tansen composed a song in 'Raag Sarang' which had the lines \"Elahi Parsee Padhe Sho Kabool\" (i.e. By God the prayers of Parsees are accepted). Tansen refers to Dasturjee Meherji with the words \"Lambi lambi dahadee Shah Mehreyari (Mahiyaar ( Meherji)) tere mukh pi barshat noor\" (i.e. Shah Mehriyar, your beard is long, your face is radiant with fame). Tansen in his time was the \"Sangeet Samrat\" (King of Classical Music) and one of the jewels (ratna) at the Royal Court.\n\nThere is no dire historical reference to the encounter Dastur Meherji had with the magician. However, this has been part of the oral tradition for more than four centuries.\n\nDastur Meherji died at a ripe old age on Roj Daepadar Mah Asfandarmad 960 Y.Z. (1591 AD). Today even after four centuries since his death the priests in Navsari perform his \"baj\" ceremony every year on Roj Daepadar, Mah Asfandarmad.\n\nAt the Atashbehram in Navsari there is a natural formation in the marble slab on the wall facing the Holy Fire, bearing an amazing resemblance to Dastur Meherji. The turban, long beard and uplifted hands are quite clear. Sceptics may dismiss this nature formation as a flight of imagination. For the mystic however, this is Nature's imprint of a Zarathushtrian saint who influenced many lives.\n\nIt appears four years after Dastur Meherji's passing away, Akbar granted an additional 300 vighas of land to Dastur Meherji's son who was named Kakiobad. This was in addition to the 200 vighas of land given earlier \"Madad-e-Maash\".\n"}
{"id": "95240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=95240", "title": "Minawara and Multultu", "text": "Minawara and Multultu\n\nIn Aboriginal mythology, Minawara and Multultu were the legendary ancestors of the Nambutji tribe. They were kangaroo-men, and came from a pile of debris carried away by the Great Flood. They made a hole to sleep in but were scolded by a rat-man who told them to sit in the tree's shade. They did so and then continued their trip and began wearing feathers; their lungs and mucus were thrown away and turned into rocks.\n"}
{"id": "7311309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7311309", "title": "Museum of Islamic Art, Cairo", "text": "Museum of Islamic Art, Cairo\n\nThe Museum of Islamic Art in Cairo, Egypt is considered one of the greatest in the world, with its exceptional collection of rare woodwork and plaster artefacts, as well as metal, ceramic, glass, crystal, and textile objects of all periods, from all over the Islamic world.\n\nIn recent years, the museum has displayed about 4,500 artefacts in 25 Halls , but it houses more than 100,000 objects, with the remainder in storage. The collection includes rare manuscripts of the Qur'an, with some calligraphy written in silver ink, on pages with elaborate borders.\n\nThe Museum has conducted archaeological excavations in the Fustat area and has organized a number of national and international exhibitions. The museum closed for renovations in 2003, and re-opened 8 years later, in August 2010. The restoration cost nearly US$10 million.\n\nAlthough recognition of the Egyptian Pharaonic art was signalled in Cairo by the establishment in 1858 of the Egyptian Department of Antiquities and the Egyptian Museum, the appreciation of Islamic Art lagged behind. The Khedive Ismail approved a proposal to establish a Museum of Islamic Art in the Courtyard of the Mosque of Baibars, but this was not carried out until 1880, when Khedive Tawfiq ordered the Ministry of Endowments (ar: الأوقاف - Awqaf) to set it up.\n\nJulius Franz, an Austrian Scholar of Hungarian Descent, the Head of the Technical department at the Awqaf, proposed in 1881 that the ruined Mosque of the Fatimid Caliph al-Hakim, adjacent to the Bab Al-Futuh, to be a provisional seat for the Museum. A Gallery was accordingly furnished there in the eastern arcade, consisting initially of 111 architectural pieces taken from other Monuments.\n\nMatters improved the same year when Khedive Tawfiq approved the \"Committee of Arab Antiquities\", whose duties included running the Arab Museum, and providing it with objects as well as preserving the monuments. As a result, the arcades of the mosque were filled to overflowing. In 1884, a two-storey structure was built in the courtyard to house the collection of 900 objects, although its staff consisted of only one curator and a door keeper.\n\nIn 1887 Max Hertz, also Austro-Hungarian, replaced Julius Franz, and began making many changes. He suggested the name of the Museum back then as the gallery of Arab Antiquities (ar: دار الآثار العربية - Dar Al-Athar Al-Arabiya). By 1895 the collection numbered to 1,641, and the new building became too crowded, so he requested the Awqaf to build a larger Museum. In 1899 the foundations were laid for the present larger building in the Bab Al-Khalq area of Cairo.\n\nThe new and current building was designed by Alfonso Manescalo, and was completed in 1902 in neo-Mamluk style, with its upper storey housing the National Library. The old museum in al Hakim was demolished in the 1970s, during refurbishment of the mosque there.\n\nThe Museum entirely faces Historic Cairo. It has two entrances; one on the north-eastern side and the other on the south-eastern side. A beautiful garden with a fountain once led to the first entrance but was later removed. The entrance on Port Said Street features a very luxurious facade, rich with decorations and recesses inspired by Islamic architecture in Egypt from various periods. The Museum is a two-storey building; the lower floor contains the exhibition halls and the upper floor contains the general stores. The basement contains a store connected with the Restoration Section.\n\nOn January 24, 2014, a car bomb attack targeting the Cairo police headquarters on the other side of the street caused considerable damage to the museum and destroyed many artifacts. It's estimated that 20-30% of the artifacts will need restoration. The blast also severely damaged the building's facade, erasing intricate designs in the Islamic style. The Egyptian National Library and Archives in the same building was also affected.\n\nThe museum reopened in January 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "49793173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49793173", "title": "Mysterious New Mexico", "text": "Mysterious New Mexico\n\nMysterious New Mexico: Miracles, Magic, and Monsters in the Land of Enchantment is a 2014 collection of thirteen investigations conducted by author Ben Radford into cases involving claims of the paranormal occurring in or with significant connections to New Mexico.\n\nThis book describes the author's use of scientific techniques to investigate thirteen cases of purported paranormal phenomena. Interviews were conducted with people connected to the events and places involved in the legends surrounding the KiMo Theater, El Santuario de Chimayo, the crystal skull found in the San Luis Valley, and the hot springs of Ojo Caliente. The case of the West Mesa murders is the backdrop for a series of interviews with psychic detectives who claim the ability to help police solve such crimes. Other cases required more literary and historical research, such as the Aztec UFO Crash, The Loretto Chapel's Staircase, reports of sightings of the legendary Thunderbirds, the apparition known as La Llorona, and Santa Fe's La Posada Hotel. The basic elements of the story of La Llorona, a legend usually associated with the Hispanic culture, for example, are traced back to a German folktale from 1486. Practical experiments were required for a third group, including determining the origin of The Santa Fe Courthouse Ghost, the reports of hauntings at the Old Cuchillo Bar, and an investigation into the power of labyrinths. The author also places the stories in their cultural context and points out the commonalities shared by the folklore and legends of the supernatural across cultures. Radford characterizes the work done for this book as \"taking the claims seriously and offering serious investigation.\"\n\nTwo of the investigations recounted in this book received press coverage before its publication. The \"Albuquerque Journal\" covered Radford's investigation of the KiMo Theater in 2009. Both television station KRQE and \"USA Today\" reported on Radford's experiments to identify the cause of the images widely known as the Santa Fe Courthouse Ghost in 2007.\n\nIn an article for the \"Pasatiempo\" section of the \"Santa Fe New Mexican\", Robert Nott interviewed Radford about his investigative methods and the psychology behind belief in supernatural phenomena. Regarding the book, Nott wrote, \"Using both forensic techniques and journalistic inquiry, Radford makes a pretty good case that La Posada de Santa Fe is not haunted by the ghost of Julia Staab, that a little spirit boy named Bobby does not haunt Albuquerque’s KiMo Theatre, that the Miraculous Staircase in Loretto Chapel isn’t that miraculous, and that La Llorona is nothing more than a rural legend.\"\n\nA reviewer for the \"Cibola Beacon\" was impressed with the author's scholarly research, citing the \"17 references in the 21 pages devoted to the worldwide phenomenon known as 'La Llorona,'\" a \"five-page index,\" and, \"copious references at the end of each chapter.\"\n\nSkeptical writer and podcast host Susan Gerbic wrote, \"You can almost see how he is thinking this through, how best to investigate it. Where are the actual claims that can be tested, researched? Then once he has done that he leads us through the investigative process.\"\n\nIn October 2014, Lesley Anderson of \"Fast Company\" wrote an article profiling both the author and his investigative techniques in the case of the Santa Fe Courthouse Ghost.\n\n"}
{"id": "3083707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3083707", "title": "Nikah 'urfi", "text": "Nikah 'urfi\n\nNikah 'urfi is a \"customary\" Sunni Muslim marriage contract that requires a walī (guardian) and witnesses but not to be officially registered with state authorities. Couples repeat the words, \"We got married\" and pledge commitment, although there are many other informal ways in which people marry 'urfi. Usually a paper, stating that the two are married, is written and at least two witnesses sign it, although others may record their commitment on a cassette tape and use other forms of documentation. Most Arab countries do not recognize 'Urfi marriages and do not allow partners to get a 'legal' divorce since the government does not recognize the legality of the marriage in the first place. Sometimes these relationships are a way for people to have sex with each other within what is perceived to be a licit framework. Nevertheless, the relationship is often kept secret from family members.\n\n'Urfi () comes from the Arabic word 'Urf, which means custom, convention, or a customary act. Many Sunnis who adhere to the Ahle-Sunnath Wal Jamath and Sufi point of views have often criticized this practice, and have related it to prostitution. The term 'Nikah Misyar' has not been used as a legal term in historical Sunni jurisprudence, and is argued by many Sunnis to be something new that does not fit in within the Sunni tradition.\n\nIn its modern context, 'Urfi is used to connote something that is different from official state ceremony or procedure. Thus a Nikah 'urfi' in an Islamic state may denote something similar to a common-law marriage in the west, while in some countries, such as Egypt, a Nikah 'Urfi is a marriage that takes place without the public approval of the bride's guardians, even though the contract is officiated by a religious cleric and sometimes by a state representative.\n\nThere are three criteria for defining legal issues in Islamic jurisprudence (fiqh):\n\n\nIf the shariah defines something, all Muslims must follow that definition. If the shariah is silent on an issue, Muslims should follow the 'Urfi definition. The 'Urfi marriage has always existed, but for different reasons. In the past, it was common among the widows of soldiers who had huge pensions and they did not want to lose it by officially remarrying. Now, however, it is mostly among university students and young couples who cannot afford the high cost of marriage.\n\nUndocumented 'Urfi marriages are increasingly popular among Egyptian youth. The high cost of marriage forces many young couples to wait several years before they marry. Conservative Egyptian society forbids sex before marriage, so many young people consider the 'Urfi marriage a solution. 'Urfi marriages are conducted by a Muslim cleric in the presence of two witnesses. However, they are not officially registered and are not legally financially binding on the man. Couples married in this way often meet in secret and avoid the expense of renting an apartment. The 'Urfi marriage can be disastrous for the wife in legal terms. If the husband leaves her without granting her a divorce, she had no legal right to seek a divorce since 'Urfi marriage is considered illegal. Her husband could remarry. The wife is in a more difficult position. If the wife remarries, she can be accused of polyandry, which is punishable by seven years in prison in Egypt, or she could remain single for the rest of her life.\n\nThe new Egyptian law (passed in 2000) recognizes the woman's right to seek divorce from an 'Urfi marriage. However, the law denies her alimony and child support.\n\nThere are also controversial, unofficial \"'Urfi\" marriages, where a couple signs documents declaring themselves married. The couple does not inform their families of the marriage. Many Egyptian clerics are against this type of 'Urfi marriage calling it a cover for pre-marital sex.\n\nAn extreme form of 'Urfi marriage is known as zawag al-'urfi: to give prostitution an Islamic cover, some women enter into secret marriage contracts with their summer visitors. Known in Egypt as zawag al-'urfi, this contract is made without witnesses and typically ends in divorce by summer's end. Most of Egypt's Islamic scholars condemn this use of zawag al-'urfi.\n\nThe part of a contract of marriage that is absolutely necessary, according to all Islamic schools – Sunni as well as Shi'ah – is that it is agreed to by the man and the woman to be married and whether it is verbal or written makes no difference, hence the witnesses. The additional requirement is bride's dower or mahr to be paid by the man to the woman; this marriage gift may be in fiscal form (money, gold etc.) or chattel (goods, clothes etc.) or may be promissory payment at future date or in the event of husband divorcing the wife by talaq. It thus includes what Western lawyers consider the three requirements of a contract, i.e. offer, acceptance and consideration (money).\n\nWith regard to \"'urfi marriage\" – there are two types of this:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26310979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26310979", "title": "Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly", "text": "Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly\n\nThe Orenburg Muslim Spiritual Assembly () was a state-controlled religious administration in the Russian Empire that had jurisdiction over certain aspects of Islamic activity in Siberia, the Volga-Ural region, and parts of Central Asia, including the Kazakh steppe. It was established in 1788 by order of Russian Empress Catherine II.\n\nThe Kazakhs were removed from the assembly's jurisdiction in the 1860s as part of a policy to decrease the exposure of the Kazakhs to Tartar influence.\n\nThe head position in the assembly was mufti, under whom there were 5 or 6 qazis.\n\nThe role of the mufti was established in the assembly's founding documents of 1788, however neither his social status or the scope of his powers were made clear. The first mufti, Mukhamedzhan Khusainov, immediately began to push for more power, demanding the same status as the Metropolitan of the Russian Orthodox Church. He met several times with Catherine II in St. Petersburg, and began to see himself as an important political figure in the Volga-Ural region. This worried local Russian administrators, who requested and received permission from Prince Alexander Bezborodko to severely limit Khusainov's influence and keep him under their control. Local authorities then decreed \"his [the mufti's] duty is to administer strictly religious matters, and not to touch secular ones, except when the administrations sees fit to use him for these\".\n\nAccording to an 1802 decree the mufti could not make any decisions without the consent of his deputies, however this was rarely followed by Khusainov. The first mufti was constantly dogged with lawsuits and complaints concerning bribery, swindling, and failure to follow \"salat\". Though Emperor Alexander I send a letter supporting Khusainov, and in effect granting him legal immunity, charges over Khusainov's abuse of power continued for the duration of his time as mufti.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25912151", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25912151", "title": "Preacher's Sons", "text": "Preacher's Sons\n\nPreacher's Sons is a 2008 American documentary film, by C. Roebuck Reed and Mark Nealey. It follows the lives of a Unitarian Universalist minister, his husband, and the five sons they adopted from the California foster care system. The family is seen dealing with issues related to the fathers' homosexuality and the mixed-race (African American and Latino children with Caucasian parents) composition of the family, as well as the disturbed backgrounds of the children before their adoptions. The introductory segment has been aired on the public television program, \"In the Life\". The California Council for the Humanities supported the film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39703351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39703351", "title": "Prem Suri", "text": "Prem Suri\n\nAcharya Prem Suri was a Jain Svetambar Murtipujaka Acharya. He belonged to the Tapa Gaccha sub-sect. After his death, his tradition was divided into two; led by Ram Chandra Suri and Bhuvan Bhanu Suri respectively. His tradition has the largest number of monks in Svetambara murtipujaka sect.\n\nHe was a disciple of Jain monk named Acharya Dansuriji. Along with Vijayanandsuri, Dharma Vijay and Nitin Suri, he reformed \"Samvegi\" monks.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "9861157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9861157", "title": "Religion in Guatemala", "text": "Religion in Guatemala\n\nChristianity continues to remain strong and vital for the life of Guatemalan society, but its composition has changed considerably in recent decades.\n\nRoman Catholicism was the official religion in Guatemala during the colonial era and currently has a special status under the constitution. Evangelical Protestantism (Protestants are called \"Evangelicos\" in Latin America) and later Eastern Orthodoxy and Oriental Orthodoxy have increased in recent decades. About 42% of Guatemalans are Protestant, chiefly independent Evangelicals and Pentecostals. The Eastern Orthodox Church and Oriental Orthodoxy claim rapid growth, especially among the indigenous Maya peoples.\n\nArticle 36 of Guatemala's constitution states that everyone has the right to practice their religion or belief, in public and in private. Guatemala has had no official religion since 1882.\n\nCatholicism was the established religion during the colonial era (1519–1821) and reestablished under the Concordat of 1854 until the fall of Vicente Cerna y Cerna in 1871. It is common for relevant Mayan practices to be incorporated into Catholic ceremonies and worship when they are sympathetic to the meaning of Catholic belief a phenomenon known as inculturation.\nThe practice traditional Mayan religion is increasing as a result of the cultural protections established under the peace accords. The government has instituted a policy of providing altars at every Mayan ruin found in the country so that it is easier for traditional Maya to worship.\n\nCurrent estimates of the primarily Evangelical Protestant population of Guatemala are around 40 percent, making it the most Protestant country in Latin America. Most of these Protestants are Pentecost church Pentecostals. The first Protestant missionary, Frederick Crowe, arrived in Guatemala in 1843, but Conservative President Rafael Carrera expelled him in 1845. Protestant missionaries re-entered the country in 1882 under the patronage of Liberal President Justo Rufino Barrios. These Northern Presbyterian missionaries opened the first permanent Protestant church in the country in Guatemala City, which still exists one block behind the presidential palace in zone 1 of Guatemala City.\n\nProtestants remained a small portion of the population until the late-twentieth century, when various Protestant groups experienced a demographic boom that coincided with the increasing violence of the Guatemalan Civil War. Two Guatemalan heads of state, General Efraín Ríos Montt, who in 2013 was found guilty of genocide and crimes against humanity, and Jorge Serrano Elías, have been practicing Protestants. They are the only two Protestant heads of state in the history of Latin America. Large portions of the nations Mayan population are Protestants, especially in the northern highlands.\n\nAccording to a Guatemalan Orthodox monastery, Orthodox Christianity arrived in Guatemala at the end of the 19th century and beginning of the 20th century with immigrants from Lebanon, Russia, and Greece. In the 1980s two Catholic women, Mother Ines and Mother Maria, converted to Orthodox Christianity and established a monastery. In 1992 they were received into the Antiochian Patriarchate and in 1995 the Catholic Apostolic Orthodox Antiochian Church in Guatemala was formally established. The state orphanage of Hogar Rafael Ayau, established in 1857, was privatized and transferred to their care in 1996.\n\nIn 2010 a religious group which had begun as a Catholic movement under a priest, Andrés de Jesús Girón (died 2014, also known as Andrew Giron), was received into the Eastern Orthodox Church by the Ecumenical Patriarchate of Constantinople and placed under the Greek Orthodox Metropolis of Mexico.\n\nThe Non-Chalcedonian Syriac Orthodox Church of Antioch, which is part of the Oriental Orthodox communion, received as many as 500,000 converts from a schismatic Catholic denomination in 2013. The Syriac Orthodox Patriarchal Vicariate of Guatemala is led by Archbishop Mor Yacoub Edward.\n\nBoth Eastern and Oriental Orthodox converts are almost largely made up of indigenous Mayans, a historically persecuted ethnic minority in Guatemala.\n\nThe Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints in Guatemala claims over 255,000 members in 421 congregations in Guatemala which, if accurate, accounts for approximately 1.6% of Guatemala's estimated population in 2015. The first member of the LDS Church in Guatemala was baptized in 1948. Membership grew to a claimed 10,000 by 1966, and 18 years later, when the Guatemala City Temple was dedicated in 1984, membership had risen to 40,000.\n\nBy 1998 membership had grown to 164,000. A second temple, Quetzaltenango Guatemala Temple, was dedicated in December 2011.\n\nHowever the church has also reported declining or stagnant numbers in the capital, Guatemala City.\n\nThere are also small communities of Buddhists at around 9,000 to 12,000, Jews estimated between 1,200 and 2,000, Muslims at 1,200 and members of other faiths.\n\nEstimations of 2000 reveals that there was a significant percent of atheists or people with no religion.\n\nBeing \"non-religious\" in Guatemala can refer to atheism, adherence to no specific religion, or agnosticism. However, there are high percentages of confidence in the church and religious practice. Officially the country has had no state religion since 1882. According to a national poll in 2000, approximately 18 percent of Guatemalans are not religious, just behind El Salvador and Uruguay.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4047278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4047278", "title": "Rod Ferrell", "text": "Rod Ferrell\n\nRoderrick Justin \"Rod\" Ferrell (born March 28, 1980) is an American convicted murderer. He was a member of a loose-knit gang of teenagers from Murray, Kentucky, known as the \"Vampire Clan\". Ferrell told people that he was a 500-year-old vampire named Vesago, a character he created for himself after becoming obsessed with the role playing game \"\". In 1998, Ferrell pleaded guilty to the double slaying of a couple from Eustis, Florida, becoming the youngest person in the United States on Death Row. Originally sentenced to death, Ferrell's penalty has since been reduced to life without parole.\n\nOn November 25, 1996 (the week of Thanksgiving), Naomi Ruth Queen and Richard Wendorf were found by their daughter Jennifer Wendorf, beaten to death in their Eustis home. While 49-year-old Richard Wendorf was asleep on his couch and Ruth was in the shower, Ferrell and accomplice Howard Scott Anderson had entered the home through the unlocked garage, picking up the murder weapon. Before Richard had even awakened, Ferrell beat him multiple times with a crowbar, fracturing both his skull and ribs, almost instantly knocking him out, and killing him shortly thereafter. When Ruth had found Ferrell and Anderson in the home moments later, Ferrell bludgeoned her to death, bashing her head with the crowbar. He claimed in his confession, however, that in his original plan, he was going to allow Naomi Ruth to live, but she first attacked him by lunging at him and throwing a very hot cup of coffee on him, which angered him and made him change his mind and kill her also. Richard was found bearing burn marks in the shape of a V. It was said that the V was Ferrell's symbol, which he accompanied with a dot for each person he considered to be in his vampire cult.\n\nThe victims were the parents of Heather Wendorf, a long-time friend of Rod's whom he was helping run away from a home that she described as \"hell\". Heather and the other girls that were with Ferrell and Anderson were not at the Wendorf home when the murders took place. Charity and her friend Dana had driven Heather to her boyfriend's apartment so Heather could say good-bye before leaving for New Orleans, leaving Roderrick and Scott outside the Wendorf home.\n\nAfter four days of driving through four states, the group was found in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. It is believed that Ferrell liked a video arcade in New Orleans, and they were headed there. One of the girls, Charity Keesee, placed a call to her mother in South Dakota. The group needed money, and Charity thought her mother could help them. However, Keesee's mother informed the police about her whereabouts and helped police trick Ferrell, Wendorf, and the rest of the teens into going to a local Howard Johnson's hotel, where they were arrested by waiting law enforcement. The four were held at a Baton Rouge jail for a week before being extradited back to Florida, where they were initially booked at the Lake County Jail. They were later moved to a juvenile facility in Ocala.\n\nOn February 12, 1998, then-seventeen-year-old Ferrell pleaded guilty to the murders, claiming that the others traveling with him were innocent except Scott Anderson, who was simply an accessory. Ferrell pleaded guilty to two counts of felony murder. Ferrell's attorneys tried to argue that he was insane; he has been diagnosed with mental disorders including schizotypal personality disorder and Asperger Syndrome.Judge Jerry T. Lockett sentenced Ferrell to death. Charity Keesee was convicted of two counts of third-degree murder, robbery with a gun or deadly weapon and burglary armed with weapon or explosives. She was sentenced to 10.5 years in state prison. Dana Cooper was convicted of those charges as well, but was given a 17.5 year prison sentence. Anderson was convicted of the same charges as Ferrell and was sentenced to life in prison.\n\nFor two years, Ferrell held the record as the youngest inmate on death row until November 2000, when the Florida Supreme Court reduced his sentence to life in prison. Because Florida had long abolished parole, the sentence is without it. \nKeesee was released from prison in March 2006 and Cooper was released from prison in October 2011.\n\nIn January 2013, an appellate court has tossed out the latest attempts by convicted Roderrick Ferrell and Howard Scott Anderson to get a new sentencing hearing.\n\nThe 2002 film \"Vampire Clan\" was based on this case as well.\n\nThe 2006 History Channel documentary \"Vampire Secrets\" briefly focuses on the murders Rod committed.\n\nThe Legendary Shack Shakers song \"Blood on the Blue Grass\" is about Ferrell and the Vampire Clan.\n\nThe \"Handsome Devils\" episode \"Blood Lust\" is about Ferrell and the Vampire Clan.\n\nEpisode 5 of the first season of the 2015 TV series \"Occult Crimes\", \"The Vampire Gang\", was based on this case.\n\nThe Real Stories Crime documentary \"Kentucky Teenage Vampires\", focuses on the vampires in the small town of Murray, Rod, and the murders.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29002354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29002354", "title": "Sigmund Freud's views on religion", "text": "Sigmund Freud's views on religion\n\nSigmund Freud's views on religion are described in several of his books and essays. Freud regarded God as an illusion, based on the infantile need for a powerful father figure; religion, necessary to help us restrain violent impulses earlier in the development of civilization, can now be set aside in favor of reason and science.\n\nIn \"An Autobiographical Study\", originally published in 1925, Freud recounts that \"My parents were Jews, and I have remained a Jew myself.\" Familiarity with Bible stories, from an age even before he learned to read, had \"an enduring effect on the direction of my interest.\" In 1873, upon attending the University at Vienna, he first encountered antisemitism: \"I found that I was expected to feel myself inferior and an alien because I was a Jew.\"\n\nIn a prefatory note to the Hebrew translation of \"Totem and Taboo\" (1930) Freud describes himself as \"an author who is ignorant of the language of holy writ, who is completely estranged from the religion of his fathers—as well as from every other religion\" but who remains \"in his essential nature a Jew and who has no desire to alter that nature\".\n\nIn \"Obsessive Actions and Religious Practices\" (1907), his earliest writing about religion, Freud suggests that religion and neurosis are similar products of the human mind: neurosis, with its compulsive behavior, is \"an individual religiosity\", and religion, with its repetitive rituals, is a \"universal obsessional neurosis.\"\n\nIn \"Totem and Taboo\", published in 1913, Freud analyzes the tendency of primitive tribes to promulgate rules against incest within groups named for totem animal and objects, and to create taboos regarding actions, people and things. He notes that taboos (such as that regarding incest) still play a significant role in modern society but that totemism \"has long been abandoned as an actuality and replaced by newer forms\". Freud believes that an original act of patricide—the killing and devouring of \"the violent primal father\" was remembered and re-enacted as a \"totem meal...mankind's earliest festival\" which was \"the beginning of so many things—of social organization, of moral restrictions and of religion\". Freud develops this idea further in \"Moses and Monotheism\", his last book, discussed below. He further goes to attribute creation of gods to humans: \"...we know that, like gods, [demons] are only the product of the psychic powers of man; they have been created from and out of something.\"\n\nIn \"An Autobiographical Study\" Freud elaborated on the core idea of \"Totem and Taboo\": \"This view of religion throws a particularly clear light upon the psychological basis of Christianity, in which, it may be added, the ceremony of the totem-feast still survives with but little distortion in the form of Communion.\"\n\nIn \"The Future of an Illusion\" (1927), Freud refers to religion as an illusion which is \"perhaps the most important item in the psychical inventory of a civilization\". In his estimation, religion provides for defense against \"the crushingly superior force of nature\" and \"the urge to rectify the shortcomings of civilization which made themselves painfully felt\". He concludes that all religious beliefs are \"illusions and insusceptible of proof.\"\n\nFreud then examines the issue of whether, without religion, people will feel \"exempt from all obligation to obey the precepts of civilization\". He notes that \"civilization has little to fear from educated people and brain-workers\" in whom secular motives for morality replace religious ones; but he acknowledges the existence of \"the great mass of the uneducated and oppressed\" who may commit murder if not told that God forbids it, and who must be \"held down most severely\" unless \"the relationship between civilization and religion\" undergoes \"a fundamental revision\".\n\nFreud asserts that dogmatic religious training contributes to a weakness of intellect by foreclosing lines of inquiry. He argues that \"[I]n the long run nothing can withstand reason and experience, and the contradiction which religion offers to both is all too palpable.\" The book expressed Freud's \"hope that in the future science will go beyond religion, and reason will replace faith in God.\"\n\nIn an afterword to \"An Autobiographical Study\" (1925, revised 1935), Freud states that his \"essentially negative\" view of religion changed somewhat after \"The Future of an Illusion\"; while religion's \"power lies in the truth which it contains, I showed that that truth was not a material but a historical truth.\"\n\nHarold Bloom calls \"The Future of an Illusion\", \"one of the great failures of religious criticism.\" Bloom believes that Freud underestimated religion, and that as a result his criticisms of it were no more convincing than T. S. Eliot's criticisms of psychoanalysis. Bloom suggests that psychoanalysis and Christianity are both interpretations of the world and of human nature, and that while Freud believed that religious beliefs are illusions and delusions, the same may be said of psychoanalytic theory. In his view nothing is accomplished with regard to either Christianity or psychoanalysis by listing their illusions and delusions.\n\nIn \"Civilization and its Discontents\", published in 1930, Freud says that man's need for religion could be explained by \"a sensation of 'eternity', a feeling as of something limitless, unbounded—as it were, 'oceanic'\", and adds, \"I cannot discover this 'oceanic' feeling in myself\". Freud suggests that the \"oceanic feeling\", which his friend Romain Rolland had described to him in a letter, is a wish fulfillment, related to the child's egoistic need for protection.\n\nJames Strachey, editor and translator of this and other works of Freud, describes the main theme of the work as \"the irremediable antagonism between the demands of instinct and the restrictions of civilization\". Freud also treats two other themes, the development of civilization recapitulating individual development, and the personal and social struggle between \"Eros\" and \"Thanatos\", life and death urges.\n\nFreud expresses deep pessimism about the odds of humanity's reason triumphing over its destructive forces. He added a final sentence to the book in a 1931 edition, when the threat of Hitler was already becoming apparent: \"But who can foresee with what success and with what result?\"\n\nAtheist political philosopher Christopher Hitchens cited this book as a reason behind Freud being one of his most influential figures. Hitchens described the book as a \"pessimistic unillusioned tale of realism,\" noting that Freud \"wasted little time in identifying [the need for religion] as infantile\" and pointing out a summary by Freud's biographer Ernest Jones that \"Human happiness, therefore, does not seem to be the purpose of the universe.\" \n\n\"Moses and Monotheism\" was Freud's last book, published in 1939, the year of his death. In it, Freud makes certain guesses and assumptions about Moses as a historical figure, particularly that he was not born Jewish but was adopted by Jews (the opposite of the Biblical story) and that he was murdered by his followers, who then via reaction formation revered him and became irrevocably committed to the monotheistic idea he represented.\n\nMark Edmundson comments that in writing \"Moses and Monotheism\", Freud, while not abandoning his atheism, perceived for the first time a value in the abstract form of monotheism—the worship of an invisible God, without Jesus or saints—practiced by the Jews.\n\nIn \"Moses and Monotheism\", Freud proposed that Moses had been a priest of Akhenaten who fled Egypt after the pharaoh's death and perpetuated monotheism through a different religion.\n\nAccording to Jay Geller, \"Moses and Monotheism\" is full of \"false starts, deferred conclusions, repetitions, rationalizations, defensive self-justifications, questionable methods, and weak arguments that are readily acknowledged as such by Freud.\"\n\nThe later developments in Freud’s views on religion are summarized in his lecture on the Question of a Weltanschauung, Vienna, 1932. There he describes the struggles of science in its relations with three other powers: art, philosophy and religion.\nArt is an illusion of some sort and a long story. Philosophy goes astray in its method. Religion constructed a consistent and self-contained \"Weltanschauung\" to an unparalleled degree. By comparison science is marked by certain negative characteristics. Among them it asserts that there are no sources of knowledge of the universe other than the intellectual working over of carefully scrutinized observations, and none that is derived from revelation, intuition or divination.\n\nOn relations between science and philosophy and science and religion Freud has this much to say in one sentence: “It is not permissible to declare that science is one field of human mental activity and that religion and philosophy are others, at least equal in value, and that science has no business to interfere with the other two: that they all have an equal claim to be true and that everyone is at liberty to choose from which he will draw his convictions and in which he will place his belief.” Then he goes on to say that such an impermissible view is regarded as superior and tolerant, but that it is not tenable, that it shares all the pernicious features of an entirely unscientific Weltanschauung and that it is equivalent to one in practice.\n\nWith respect to religion in particular he explains that a religious person had once been feeble and helpless. A parent had protected him. Later such a person gets more insight into the perils of life and he rightly concludes that fundamentally he still remains just as helpless as he was in his childhood.\n\nThen he harks back to the mnemic image.\n\nIn a 1949 essay in \"Commentary\" magazine, Irving Kristol says that Freud exposed what he believed to be the irrationality of religion without evidence, but has not substituted anything beyond \"a mythology of rational despair\".\n\nIn a 1950 book entitled \"Christianity and Freud\", Benjamin Gilbert Sanders draws parallels between the theory of psychoanalysis and Christian religion, referring to Jesus Christ as \"the Great Psychiatrist\" and Christians' love for Christ as \"a more positive form of the Transference.\"\n\nKaren Armstrong notes in \"A History of God\" that \"not all psychoanalysts agreed with Freud's view of God,\" citing Alfred Adler, who believed God was a projection which had been \"helpful to humanity\", and C.G. Jung, who, when asked whether he believed in God, said \"Difficult to answer, I know. I don't need to believe. I know.\"\n\nTony Campolo, founder of the Evangelical Association for the Promotion of Education, observes that \"With Freud, God, and the need for God-dictated restraints, had been abolished,\" resulting in an increase in social chaos and unhappiness which could have been avoided by adherence to religion.\n\nA number of critics draw the parallel between religious beliefs and Freud's theories, that neither can be scientifically proven, but only experienced subjectively. Lee Siegel writes that \"you either grasp the reality of Freud's dynamic notion of the subconscious intuitively – the way, in fact, you do or do not grasp the truthfulness of Ecclesiastes – or you cannot accept that it exists.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6706592", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6706592", "title": "Tom Miller (performance artist)", "text": "Tom Miller (performance artist)\n\nTom Miller (born October 5, 1965 in Hialeah, Florida), is an American writer, film director, artist, painter, musician, actor, poet, and performance artist.\n\nMiller was adopted by Nathan Anderson Miller and Alfreda Rowena Reed Miller and lived with his aunt, Alice Miriam Reed, who worked as a piano teacher.\n\nMiller showed interest in playing the piano starting at age three and at the age of 15 he enrolled in an acting school run by Ruth Foreman, Florida's \"First Lady of Theater\". He worked there as an actor and sound and light technician for five years and appeared in several TV commercials and locally produced television programs.\n\nMiller was inspired to learn to play the bass guitar and record his own songs after listening to bassist Paul McCartney. He recorded a 45 rpm record called “The Underground” at a recording studio when he was 15 years old. During his high school studies, Miller met Charles McWhorter and they began writing and recording songs together. They were joined later by guitarist John Williford and formed the Miami band, Penguin. Over a ten-year period, the band in its various iterations recorded and released five albums. After Penguin, Miller co-founded the band Middle Earth with school friend Don Traub. Middle Earth rehearsed for two years, played only two shows and then disbanded.\n\nMiller began his career in Gainesville, Florida, in 1984. He performed in the bands Plastic Age, Middle Earth, Penguin, NDolphin, Bill Perry Orchestra, The Space Masons, and Chicago's Vini and the Demons as the bass player. He is the author of 45 chapbooks, and has over 50 CDs to his credit. His poetry has been published in many small press periodicals including \"Ploplop\", \"Abbey\", \"Poetry Motel\", \"Moon\" and Jim Chandler's \"Thunder Sandwich\". In September of 2014, Miller wrote an interactive hyperlinked narrative entitled \"Project r\", which explores the concept of reality using a mixture of Miller's stories, poems, articles and blogs and also has some autobiographical content. Miller is also the writer of the play, UMMU, another piece exploring the nature of reality. Tom Miller's UMMU was presented at the Acrosstown Theatre in Gainesville, Florida as a staged reading in July of 2015 . It was later made into a fully produced and cast play and had its debut at the Acrosstown Theatre in Gainesville, Florida on May 12, 2017 .\n\nMiller is the writer and director of more than 100 independent video films. Miller has also directed the play, Sunset Village off-Broadway at the 14th Street Y Theatre . He is also known for performance art stunts including a naked press conference , a 17-hour reading of Truman Capote's \"In Cold Blood\" and frequent UFO secrecy protests. In 2010 he conducted a 30-hour marathon to raise awareness of Transcendental Meditation by watching the entire \"Twin Peaks\" television series, the two-hour pilot, and the film Twin Peaks, Fire Walk With Me - all while consuming only products popularized by the series: coffee, doughnuts, and cherry pie. In November of 2013, Miller composed and released a music album called Tom Miller Plays the iPhone. \"He is the first solo artist to create an entire ambient iPhone album in under five hours.\" In October of 2015, Miller performed a piece entitled, \"Operation Copenhagen\" in which members of the public funded a trip to Copenhagen for his fiftieth birthday to eat in what was considered the World's Greatest Restaurant, Noma. Miller said the performance was to demonstrate in no uncertain terms the power of helping each other to achieve dreams. Miller also said he takes inspiration from Chef Rene Redzepi's way of doing things. In 2016, Miller stared for two hours at a photograph of Presidential Candidate Ted Cruz's Mouth, as reported in the Huffington Post's News of the Weird. Miller also constructed a \"Sculpture of Nothing\" in the Gainesville Downtown Square, inspired by the artist, John Cage. Miller has painted portraits of many Gainesville celebrities and public figures, including mayor Pegeen Hanrahan, former Gainesville Mayor Craig Lowe, former Gainesville chief of police Wayland Clifton, hemp activist and former candidate for Florida governor Michael Geison, and Gainesville's house drag queen at The University Club, The Lady Pearl.\n\nMiller was a candidate for the Gainesville City Commission in 1995. He was the host of Gainesville's HempFests, and was a plaintiff among several organizers in a 1995 First Amendment lawsuit which the city lost, both on its initial filing and on appeal. Miller's avant-garde variety show, The Tom Miller Show, has been a staple of entertainment in Gainesville from 1984 to the present. In its current form, Miller's show is known as the Reverend Angeldust's Tabernacle of Hedonism with your Host, Tom Miller. Miller says the show is the \"...longest running variety show in the United States .\"\n\nMiller has received significant press coverage for his writings, artworks, performances, and activism in Gainesville over the last two decades. He continues touring with live performance art shows, poetry readings, videography, and currently performs on electric bass with various groups.\n\n"}
{"id": "54334583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54334583", "title": "Victor Henry Thakur", "text": "Victor Henry Thakur\n\nArchbishop Victor Henry Thakur, born 1 July 1954 at Chakhni, Bihar is the serving archbishop of the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Raipur.\n\nHe was ordained as a catholic priest on 3 May 1984.\n\nHe was appointed as Bishop of Bettiah on 27 June 1998 and ordained on 11 November 1998. He was appointed Archbishop of Raipur on 3 July 2013 and installed on 19 September 2013. He has served as Chancellor of the Diocese of Raipur and, as of 2017, is chairman of the education commission of the Bihar Regional Council of Bishops.\n"}
{"id": "2773854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2773854", "title": "Zahhak", "text": "Zahhak\n\nZahhāk or Zahāk () () is an evil figure in Persian mythology, evident in ancient Persian folklore as Aži Dahāka (), the name by which he also appears in the texts of the \"Avesta\". In Middle Persian he is called Dahāg () or Bēvar Asp () the latter meaning \"he who has 10,000 horses\". In Zoroastrianism, Zahhak (going under the name Aži Dahāka) is considered the son of Angra Mainyu, the foe of Ahura Mazda.. In the \"Shāhnāmah\" of Ferdowsi, Zahhāk is the son of a ruler named Merdās.\n\n\"Aži\" (nominative \"ažiš\") is the Avestan word for \"serpent\" or \"dragon.\" It is cognate to the Vedic Sanskrit word \"ahi\", \"snake,\" and without a sinister implication.\n\nThe original meaning of \"dahāka\" is uncertain. Among the meanings suggested are \"stinging\" (source uncertain), \"burning\" (cf. Sanskrit \"dahana\"), \"man\" or \"manlike\" (cf. Khotanese \"daha\"), \"huge\" or \"foreign\" (cf. the Dahae people and the Vedic dasas). In Persian mythology, Dahāka is treated as a proper noun, and is the source of the Ḍaḥḥāk (Zahhāk) of the \"Shāhnāme\".\n\nThe Avestan term \"Aži Dahāka\" and the Middle Persian \"azdahāg\" are the source of the Middle Persian Manichaean demon of greed \"Az\", Old Armenian mythological figure \"Aždahak\", modern Persian \"aždehâ\" / \"aždahâ\" and Tajik Persian \"azhdahâ\" and Urdu \"Azhdahā\" (اژدها) as well as the Kurdish \"ejdîha\" (ئەژدیها) which usually mean \"dragon\".\n\nDespite the negative aspect of \"Aži Dahāka\" in mythology, dragons have been used on some banners of war throughout the history of Iranian peoples.\n\nThe Azhdarchid group of pterosaurs are named from a Persian word for \"dragon\" that ultimately comes from \"Aži Dahāka\".\n\nAži Dahāka is the most significant and long-lasting of the \"aži\"s of the Avesta, the earliest religious texts of Zoroastrianism. He is described as a monster with three mouths, six eyes, and three heads (presumably meaning three heads with one mouth and two eyes each), cunning, strong and demonic (see Polycephaly). But in other respects Aži Dahāka has human qualities, and is never a mere animal.\n\nAži Dahāka appears in several of the Avestan myths and is mentioned parenthetically in many more places in Zoroastrian literature.\n\nIn a post-Avestan Zoroastrian text, the \"Dēnkard\", Aži Dahāka is possessed of all possible sins and evil counsels, the opposite of the good king Jam (or Jamshid). The name Dahāg (Dahāka) is punningly interpreted as meaning \"having ten (\"dah\") sins.\" His mother is Wadag (or Ōdag), herself described as a great sinner, who committed incest with her son.\n\nIn the Avesta, Aži Dahāka is said to have lived in the inaccessible fortress of Kuuirinta in the land of Baβri, where he worshipped the yazatas Arədvī Sūrā (Anāhitā), divinity of the rivers, and Vayu, divinity of the storm-wind. Based on the similarity between Baβri and Old Persian Bābiru (Babylon), later Zoroastrians localized Aži Dahāka in Mesopotamia, though the identification is open to doubt. Aži Dahāka asked these two yazatas for power to depopulate the world. Being representatives of the Good, they refused.\n\nIn one Avestan text, Aži Dahāka has a brother named Spitiyura. Together they attack the hero Yima (Jamshid) and cut him in half with a saw, but are then beaten back by the yazata Ātar, the divine spirit of Fire.\n\nAccording to the post-Avestan texts, following the death of Jam ī Xšēd (Jamshid), Dahāg gained kingly rule. Another late Zoroastrian text, the \"Mēnog ī xrad\", says that this was ultimately good, because if Dahāg had not become king, the rule would have been taken by the immortal demon Xešm (Aēšma), and so evil would have ruled upon earth until the end of the world.\n\nDahāg is said to have ruled for a thousand years, starting from 100 years after Jam lost his Khvarenah, his royal glory (see Jamshid). He is described as a sorcerer who ruled with the aid of demons, the daevas (divs).\n\nThe Avesta identifies the person who finally disposed of Aži Dahāka as Θraētaona son of Aθβiya, in Middle Persian called Frēdōn. The Avesta has little to say about the nature of Θraētaona's defeat of Aži Dahāka, other than that it enabled him to liberate Arənavāci and Savaŋhavāci, the two most beautiful women in the world. Later sources, especially the Dēnkard, provide more detail. Feyredon is said to have been endowed with the divine radiance of kings (\"Khvarenah\", New Persian \"farr\") for life, and was able to defeat Dahāg, striking him with a mace. However, when he did so, vermin (snakes, insects and the like) emerged from the wounds, and the god Ormazd told him not to kill Dahāg, lest the world become infested with these creatures. Instead, Frēdōn chained Dahāg up and imprisoned him on the mythical Mt. Damāvand (later identified with Damāvand, the highest mountain of the Alborz chain) - an element reminiscent of the Greek myth of Prometheus.\n\nThe Middle Persian sources also prophesy that at the end of the world, Dahāg will at last burst his bonds and ravage the world, consuming one in three humans and livestock. Kirsāsp, the ancient hero who had killed the Az ī Srūwar, returns to life to kill Dahāg.\n\nIn Ferdowsi's epic poem, the Shāhnāmah, written c. 1000 AD and part of Iranian folklore the legend is retold with the main character given the name of Zahhāk and changed from a supernatural monster into an evil human being.\n\nAccording to Ferdowsi, Zahhāk was born as the son of a ruler named Merdās (). Because of his lineage, he is sometimes called Zahhāk-e Tāzī (), meaning \"Zahhāk the Tayyi\". He was handsome and clever, but had no stability of character and was easily influenced by evil counsellors. Ahriman therefore chose him as the tool for his plans for world domination.\n\nWhen Zahhāk was a young man, Ahriman first appeared to him as a glib, flattering companion, and by degrees convinced him that he ought to kill his own father and take over his territories. He taught him to dig a deep pit covered over with leaves in a place where Merdās was accustomed to walk; Merdās fell in and was killed. Zahhāk thus became both parricide and king at the same time.\n\nAhriman now took another guise, and presented himself to Zahhāk as a marvellous cook. After he had presented Zahhāk with many days of sumptuous feasts (introducing meat to the formerly vegetarian human cuisine), Zahhāk was willing to give Ahriman whatever he wanted. Ahriman merely asked to kiss Zahhāk on his two shoulders. Zahhāk permitted this; but when Ahriman had touched his lips to Zahhāk's shoulders, he immediately vanished. At once, two black snakes grew out of Zahhāk's shoulders. They could not be surgically removed, for as soon as one snake-head had been cut off, another took its place.\n\nAhriman now appeared to Zahhāk in the form of a skilled physician. He counselled Zahhāk that the only remedy was to let the snakes remain on his shoulders, and sate their hunger by supplying them with human brains for food every day otherwise the snakes will feed on his own.\n\nAbout this time, Jamshid, who was then the ruler of the world, through his arrogance lost his divine right to rule. Zahhāk presented himself as a savior to those discontented Iranians who wanted a new ruler. Collecting a great army, he marched against Jamshid, who fled when he saw that he could not resist Zahhāk. Zahhāk hunted Jamshid for many years, and at last caught him and subjected him to a miserable death—he had Jamshid sawn in half. Zahhāk now became the ruler of the entire world. Among his slaves were two of Jamshid's daughters, Arnavāz and Shahrnāz (the Avestan Arənavāci and Savaŋhavāci).\n\nZahhāk's two snake heads still craved human brains for food, so every day Zahhāk's spies would seize two men, and execute them so their brains could feed the snakes. Two men, called Armayel and Garmayel, wanted to find a way to rescue people from being killed from the snakes. So they learned cookery and after mastering how to cook great meals, they went to Zahhāk's palace and managed to become the chefs of the palace. Every day, they saved one of the two men and put the brain of a sheep instead of his into the food, but they could not save the lives of both men. Those who were saved were told to flee to the mountains and to faraway plains.\n\nZahhāk's tyranny over the world lasted for centuries. But one day Zahhāk had a terrible dream – he thought that three warriors were attacking him, and that the youngest knocked him down with his mace, tied him up, and dragged him off toward a tall mountain. When Zahhāk woke he was in a panic. Following the counsel of Arnavāz, he summoned wise men and dream-readers to explain his dream. They were reluctant to say anything, but one finally said that it was a vision of the end of Zahhāk's reign, that rebels would arise and dispossess Zahhāk of his throne. He even named the man who would take Zahhāk's place: Fereydun.\n\nZahhāk now became obsessed with finding this \"Fereydun\" and destroying him, though he did not know where he lived or who his family was. His spies went everywhere looking for Fereydun, and finally heard that he was but a boy, being nourished on the milk of the marvelous cow Barmāyeh. The spies traced Barmāyeh to the highland meadows where it grazed, but Fereydun had already fled before them. They killed the cow, but had to return to Zahhāk with their mission unfulfilled.\n\nZahhāk now tried to consolidate his rule by coercing an assembly of the leading men of the kingdom into signing a document testifying to Zahhāk's righteousness, so that no one could have any excuse for rebellion. One man spoke out against this charade, a blacksmith named Kāva (Kaveh). Before the whole assembly, Kāva told how Zahhāk's minions had murdered seventeen of his eighteen sons so that Zahhāk might feed his snakes' lust for human brains – the last son had been imprisoned, but still lived.\n\nIn front of the assembly Zahhāk had to pretend to be merciful, and so released Kāva's son. But when he tried to get Kāva to sign the document attesting to Zahhāk's justice, Kāva tore up the document, left the court, and raised his blacksmith's apron as a standard of rebellion – the Kāviyāni Banner, \"derafsh-e Kāviyānī\" (درفش کاویانی). He proclaimed himself in support of Fereydun as ruler.\n\nSoon many people followed Kāva to the Alborz mountains, where Fereydun was now living. He was now a young man and agreed to lead the people against Zahhāk. He had a mace made for him with a head like that of an ox, and with his brothers and followers, went forth to fight against Zahhāk. Zahhāk had already left his capital, and it fell to Fereydun with small resistance. Fereydun freed all of Zahhāk's prisoners, including Arnavāz and Shahrnāz.\n\nKondrow, Zahhāk's treasurer, pretended to submit to Fereydun, but when he had a chance he escaped to Zahhāk and told him what had happened. Zahhāk at first dismissed the matter, but when he heard that Fereydun had seated Jamshid's daughters on thrones beside him like his queens, he was incensed and immediately hastened back to his city to attack Fereydun.\n\nWhen he got there, Zahhāk found his capital held strongly against him, and his army was in peril from the defense of the city. Seeing that he could not reduce the city, he snuck into his own palace as a spy, and attempted to assassinate Arnavāz and Shahrnāz. Fereydun struck Zahhāk down with his ox-headed mace, but did not kill him; on the advice of an angel, he bound Zahhāk and imprisoned him in a cave underneath Mount Damāvand, binding him with a lion's pelt tied to great nails fixed into the walls of the cavern, where he will remain until the end of the world. Thus, after a thousand years' tyranny, ended the reign of Zahhāk.\n\n\"Zahhak Castle\" is the name of an ancient ruin in Hashtroud East Azarbaijan, Iran which according to various experts, was inhabited from the second millennia BC until the Timurid era. First excavated in the 19th century by British archeologists, Iran's Cultural Heritage Organization has been studying the structure in 6 phases.\n\n\nBesides Aži Dahāka, several other dragons and dragon-like creatures are mentioned in Zoroastrian scripture:\n\nStories of monstrous serpents who are killed or imprisoned by heroes or divine beings may date back to prehistory, and are found in the myths of many Indo-European peoples, including those of the Indo-Iranians, that is, the common ancestors of both the Iranians and Vedic Indians.\n\nThe most obvious point of comparison is that in Vedic Sanskrit \"ahi\" is a cognate of Avestan \"aži\". However, In Vedic tradition, the only dragon of importance is Vrtra, but \"there is no Iranian tradition of a dragon such as Indian Vrtra\" (Boyce, 1975:91-92) Moreover, while Iranian tradition has numerous dragons, all of which are malevolent, Vedic tradition has only one other dragon besides - \"ahi budhnya\", the benevolent 'dragon of the deep.' In the Vedas, gods battle dragons, but in Iranian tradition, this is a function of mortal heroes.\n\nThus, although it seems clear that dragon-slaying heroes (and gods in the case of the Vedas) \"were a part of Indo-Iranian tradition and folklore, it is also apparent that Iran and India developed distinct myths early.\" (Skjaervø, 1989:192)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27922335", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27922335", "title": "Śubhakarasiṃha", "text": "Śubhakarasiṃha\n\nŚubhakarasiṃha (637-735 CE) () was an eminent Indian Buddhist monk and master of Esoteric Buddhism, who arrived in the Chinese capital Chang'an (now Xi'an) in 716 CE and translated the \"\", better known as the \"Mahāvairocana Sūtra\". Four years later another master, Vajrabodhi (670-741 CE), and his pupil Amoghavajra (705-775 CE), would arrive and proceeded to translate other scriptures, thus establishing a second esoteric tradition. Along with these other masters, Śubhakarasiṃha was responsible for bringing Esoteric Buddhism to the height of its popularity in China.\n\nAccording to the Chinese sources, Śubhakarasiṃha was born in India as the oldest son of Buddhakara (Fo-shou Wang). Li Hua's \"Shan-wu-wei-hsing-chuang\" states that his family originated in Magadha. Because of unrest in their native kingdom, they had migrated to Odra (in present-day Odisha). Modern scholars theorize that Śubhakarasiṃha may have been an ancestor of the Bhauma-Kara dynasty, which ruled in Odisha between 8th and 10th centuries, and whose kings included people named Śubhakara.\n\nAccording to his biography, Śubhakarasiṃha ascended to the throne as king when he was thirteen years old. Although emerging victorious from a power struggle with his older brothers, he turned over his position to his oldest brother and entered the monastic life. He became well known for his supernatural abilities, and finally settled in Nālandā where he met the master Dharmagupta. After being instructed by him, Śubhakarasiṃha became a traveling teacher, and was then told by Dharmagupta to go further east to China.\n\nWhen Śubhakarasiṃha arrived in China, he was already eighty years old. Upon his arrival, he became well known for his supernatural abilities, and became favored by Emperor Xuanzong of the Tang Dynasty. It was during this time that he translated several works of Esoteric Buddhism including the \"\".\n\nAccording to Robert Sharf, Chán Master Yi Xing (Ch. 一行禅師) was the most eminent of his students. Yixing belonged to the northern school of Chán Buddhism, but this was not seen by Chinese Buddhist culture as being fundamentally different from the esoteric teachings of Śubhakarasiṃha. Around the turn of the eighth century, the northern school was known for its esoteric practices of dhāraṇīs and mantras.\n\nŚubhakarasiṃha was the first patriarch of the Shingon teachings in China. Following Śubhakarasiṃha, the lineage is traced to his student Chán Master Yixing, then to Huiguo (Ch. 惠果), and finally to Kūkai (Jp. 空海), who brought the teachings of Śubhakarasiṃha and his translation of the \"\" to Japan.\n\n"}
