{"id": "8588790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8588790", "title": "A normalista", "text": "A normalista\n\nA normalista is a novel written by the Brazilian writer Adolfo Caminha. It was first published in 1891.\n\n"}
{"id": "14161092", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14161092", "title": "Bachelor of Science in Law", "text": "Bachelor of Science in Law\n\nThe Bachelor of Science in Law (BSL) is a somewhat special-purpose undergraduate degree that is typically intended for students who have completed some undergraduate education, but not received a baccalaureate degree, and are intending to resume their education and commence the study of law, ultimately towards a Juris Doctor degree, but need a bachelor's degree first. Academic work at the start of a law program is sometimes combined with previous academic credit to form the basis of a BSL award. The BSL degree is also sometimes intended for students who do not intend to attend law school, but are instead becoming paralegals or other legal assistants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "148635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=148635", "title": "Blood diamond", "text": "Blood diamond\n\nBlood diamonds (also called conflict diamonds, war diamonds, hot diamonds, or red diamonds) is a term used for a diamond mined in a war zone and sold to finance an insurgency, an invading army's war efforts, or a warlord's activity. The term is used to highlight the negative consequences of the diamond trade in certain areas, or to label an individual diamond as having come from such an area. Diamonds mined during the recent civil wars in Angola, Ivory Coast, Sierra Leone, Liberia, Guinea, and Guinea Bissau have been given the label. The term conflict resource refers to analogous situations involving other natural resources.\n\nReports estimated that as much as 20% of the total diamond production in the 1980s was being sold for illegal and unethical purposes and 19% was specifically \"conflict\" in nature. By 1999, the illegal diamond trade was estimated by the World Diamond Council to have been reduced to 4% of the world's diamond production. The World Diamond Council reported that by 2004 this percentage had fallen to approximately 1% and up to today the World Diamond Council refers to this illegal trade to be virtually eliminated, meaning that more than 99% of diamonds being sold have a legal background. \n\nDespite the UN Resolution, UNITA was able to continue to sell or trade some diamonds in order to finance its war effort. The UN set out to find how this remaining illicit trade was being conducted and appointed Canadian ambassador Robert Fowler to investigate. In 2000, he produced the Fowler Report, which named those countries, organizations and individuals involved in the trade. The report is credited with establishing the link between diamonds and third world conflicts, and led directly to United Nations Security Council Resolution 1295, as well as the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme. Still, after the report was published in 2013 smugglers from these African countries were selling blood diamonds through channels less sophisticated such as social media posts. And rhinestones from Angola, produced by UNITA were being traded to Cameroon to get them a Cameroonian certificate naturalization to then be sold as legitimate.\n\nIvory Coast began to develop a fledgling diamond mining industry in the early 1990s. A coup overthrew the government in 1999, starting a civil war. The country became a route for exporting diamonds from Liberia and war-torn Sierra Leone. Foreign investment began to withdraw from Ivory Coast. To curtail the illegal trade, the nation stopped all diamond mining and the UN Security Council banned all exports of diamonds from Ivory Coast in December 2005. This ban lasted about ten years but it was later lifted in April 2014 when members of the UN council voted to suspend the sanction. The Kimberley process officials also notified in November 2013 that Ivory Coast was right producing artisanal diamonds.\n\nDespite UN sanctions the illicit diamond trade still exists in Ivory Coast. Rough diamonds are exported out of the country to neighboring states and international trading centers through the northern Forces Nouvelles controlled section of the country, a group which is reported to be using these funds of chele to re-arm.\n\nThe Democratic Republic of the Congo (formerly Zaire) has suffered numerous looting wars in the 1990s, but has been a member of the Kimberley Process since 2003 and now exports about 8% of the world's diamonds.'However, even nowadays there is a warning concerning diamonds proceeding from this area since there have been multiple cases of fake Kimberley certificates accompanying the gems. Once one of De Beers most celebrated and priceless diamonds, the D-colour Millennium Star was discovered in the DRC and sold to De Beers, in open competition with other diamond buyers, between 1991 and 1992.\n\nFrom 1989 to 2003, Liberia was engaged in a civil war. In 2000, the UN accused Liberian president Charles G. Taylor of supporting the Revolutionary United Front (RUF) insurgency in neighboring Sierra Leone with weapons and training in exchange for diamonds. In 2001, the United Nations applied sanctions on the Liberian diamond trade. In August 2003, Taylor stepped down as president and, after being exiled to Nigeria, faced trial in The Hague. On July 21, 2006, he pleaded not guilty to crimes against humanity and war crimes, of which he was found guilty in April 2012. On May 30, 2012, he began a 50-year sentence in a high security prison in the United Kingdom.\n\nAround the time of the 1998 United States embassy bombings, al-Qaeda allegedly bought gems from Liberia as some of its other financial assets were frozen.\n\nHaving regained peace, Liberia is attempting to construct a legitimate diamond mining industry. The UN has lifted sanctions and Liberia is now a member of the Kimberley Process.\n\nIn December 2014 however, Liberian diamonds were reported to be partly produced using child labor according to the U.S. Department of Labor's \"List of Goods Produced by Child Labor or Forced Labor\".\n\nThe civil war started in 1991 and continued until 2002, costing at least 50,000 lives and causing local people to suffer killings, mutilation, rape, torture and abduction, mainly due to the brutal warfare waged by rebel group, the Revolutionary United Front (RUF). The Revolutionary United Front (RUF) claimed that they supported causes of justice and democracy in the beginning, but later on they started to control the villages and to prevent local people from voting for the new government by chopping off their limbs. Victims included children and infants. It created numerous examples of physical and psychological harm across Sierra Leone. \n\nMoreover, they also occupied the diamond mines in order to get access to funding and continued support of their actions. For example, during that time, RUF was mining up to $125 million of diamonds yearly. Since diamonds are used as a funding source, they also created opportunities for tax evasion and financial support of crime. Therefore, United Nations Security Council imposed diamond sanctions in 2000, which were then lifted in 2003. According to National Geographic News, all of these civil wars and conflicts created by rebel groups resulted in over four million deaths in the African population and injuries to over two million civilians. Another latest conflict diamond statistic from Statistic Brain, revealed that Sierra Leone has been listed as second highest in the production of conflict diamonds, which is shown as 1% of the world's production, after Angola, which produced 2.1% in 2016. 15% of Sierra Leone's diamond production are conflict diamonds. It shows that the production of conflict diamonds still exists in Sierra Leone.\n\nAccording to the 2005 Country Reports on Human Right Practices of Africa from the United States, serious human rights issues still exist in Sierra Leone, even though the 11-year civil conflict had officially ended by 2002. Sierra Leone remains in an unstable political situation, although the country has elected a new government. The huge consequences of blood diamonds still remains a mainstream issue in Sierra Leone. One of the biggest issues is people still being abused by the security forces, including rape and the use of excessive force on detainees, including teenagers. Child abuse and child labor are other serious issues which took place in Sierra Leone after the civil conflicts. As they need a huge number of workers, the security forces started kidnapping and forcing young adults to be their slaves; children were forced to join their army as soldiers, and women were raped. They even burned entire villages. Thousands of men, women, and children are used as slaves to collect diamonds, and they are forced to use their bare hands to dig in mud along river banks instead of digging with tools.\n\nBased on the report, The Truth About Diamonds: Conflict and Development from Global Witness, it mentioned that Sierra Leone is listed as second from the bottom of the United Nation Human Development Index. It also shows that Sierra Leone still makes slow progress, in 2016, in such different aspects as, for example, education, health, and human rights, since 1990, which is also the year that conflicts took place in Sierra Leone. It shows that it is a huge consequence of blood diamonds that it brought into Sierra Leone. Even though the war had ended in 2002 and the government tried to improve and adjust the cooperation of the diamond industry. Sierra Leone resulted in an increase of over US$140 million in 2005 and attempted a percentage return of export tax to diamond mining communities. However, it does not improve anything — the money is not reaching the public and it has not provided benefit to anyone in the communities. For instance, the Kono district in Sierra Leone has been mined for 70 years, but they still have no basic facilities, like electricity and repairing of roads. Houses are destroyed because of the civil wars. It also examines the unethical issues of how rebel groups treat those locals. They used brainwashing of inexperienced young children and forced them to be child soldiers as they lost their personal freedom and rights under command that included violence and intimidation. \n\nThe Republic of the Congo (Congo-Brazzaville) was expelled from the Kimberley Process in 2004 because, despite having no official diamond mining industry, the country was exporting large quantities of diamonds, the origin of which it could not detail. It was also accused of falsifying certificates of origin. The Republic of the Congo was readmitted in 2007.\n\nZimbabwe Diamonds are not considered conflict diamonds by the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme.\n\nIn July 2010, the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme agreed that diamonds from the country's disputed Marange Diamond Fields could be sold on the international market, after a report from the Scheme's monitor a month earlier described diamonds mined from the fields as conflict-free.\n\nGlobal Witness was one of the first organizations to pick up on the link between diamonds and conflicts in Africa in its 1998 report entitled \"A Rough Trade\". With the passing of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1173 in 1998, the United Nations too identified the conflict diamond issue as a funding for war. The Fowler Report in 2000 detailed in depth how UNITA was financing its war activities, and in May 2000, led directly to the passing of United Nations Security Council Resolution 1295 and the diamond producing countries of southern Africa meeting in Kimberley, South Africa to plan a method by which the trade in conflict diamonds could be halted, and buyers of diamonds could be assured that their diamonds have not contributed to violence. In this resolution the Security Council wrote:\n\nWelcomes the proposal that a meeting of experts be convened for the purpose of devising a system of controls to facilitate the implementation of the measures contained in Resolution 1173 (1998), including arrangements that would allow for increased transparency and accountability in the control of diamonds from their point of origin to the bourses, emphasizes that it is important that, in devising such controls, every effort be made to avoid inflicting collateral damage on the legitimate diamond trade, and welcomes the intention of the Republic of South Africa to host a relevant conference this year\".\n\nOn July 19, 2000, the World Diamond Congress at Antwerp adopted a resolution to strengthen the diamond industry's ability to block sales of conflict diamonds. The resolution called for an international certification system on the export and import of diamonds, legislation in all countries to accept only officially sealed packages of diamonds, for countries to impose criminal charges on anyone trafficking in conflict diamonds, and instituted a ban on any individual found trading in conflict diamonds from the diamond bourses of the World Federation of Diamond Bourses. The Kimberley Process was at the start led by South Africa and Canada as vice president and since then every year a new chair and vice chair country are elected to maintain the legitimacy of their practices. This system tracks diamonds from the mine to the market and regulates the policing surrounding the export, manufacture and sale of the products. Also in tourist countries like Dubai and the United Kingdom. All the Kimberley members are not allowed to trade with non members. Before a gemstone is allowed through the airports to other countries, the Kimberley Certification must be presented by the gem's owner or obtained from a renowned attorney. The certificate should also be requested by the customer when the gems have reached a retail store to ensure its precedence. \n\nOn January 17–18 of 2001, diamond industry figures convened and formed the new organization, the World Diamond Council. This new body set out to draft a new process, whereby all diamond rough could be certified as coming from a non-conflict source.\n\nThe KPCS was given approval by the UN on March 13, 2002, and in November, after two years of negotiation between governments, diamond producers, and Non-Government organizations, the Kimberley Process Certification Scheme was created.\n\nThe Kimberley Process attempted to curtail the flow of conflict diamonds, help stabilize fragile countries and support their development. As the Kimberley Process has made life harder for criminals, it has brought large volumes of diamonds onto the legal market that would not otherwise have made it there. This has increased the revenues of poor governments, and helped them to address their countries’ development challenges. For instance, around $125 million worth of diamonds were legally exported from Sierra Leone in 2006, compared to almost none at the end of the 1990s.\n\nThe Kimberley Process has ultimately failed to stem the flow of blood diamonds, leading key proponents such as Global Witness to abandon the scheme. In addition, there is no guarantee that diamonds with a Kimberley Process Certification are in fact conflict-free. This is due to the nature of the corrupt government officials in the leading diamond producing countries. It is common for these officials to be bribed with $50 to $100 a day in exchange for paperwork declaring that blood diamonds are Kimberley Process Certified.\n\nThe Kimberley system attempted to increase governments' transparency by forcing them to keep records of the diamonds they are exporting and importing and how much they are worth. In theory, this would show governments their finances so that they can be held accountable for how much they are spending for the benefit of the country's population. However non-compliance by countries such as Venezuela has led to the failure of accountability.\n\nThe company Materialytics claims that it can trace the origin of virtually any diamond using Laser-induced breakdown spectroscopy. However, there is no way to know whether a diamond purchased online is blood free or not.\n\nOn January 18, 2001, President Bill Clinton issued Executive Order 13194 which prohibited the importation of rough diamonds from Sierra Leone into the United States in accordance with the UN resolutions. On May 22, 2001, President George W. Bush issued Executive Order 13213 which banned rough diamond importation from Liberia into the United States. Liberia had been recognized by the United Nations as acting as a pipeline for conflict diamonds from Sierra Leone.\n\nUnited States enacted the Clean Diamond Trade Act (CDTA) on April 25, 2003, implemented on July 29, 2003, by Executive Order 13312. The CDTA installed the legislation to implement the KPCS in law in the United States. The implementation of this legislation was key to the success of the KPCS, as the United States is the largest consumer of diamonds. The CDTA states: 'As the consumer of a majority of the world's supply of diamonds, the United States has an obligation to help sever the link between diamonds and conflict and press for implementation of an effective solution.\n\nThe United States Department of State also maintains an office for a Special Adviser for Conflict Diamonds. As of October 14, 2015, the position is held by Ashley Orbach.\n\nDuring the 1990s diamond-rich areas were discovered in Northern Canada. Canada is one of the key players in the diamond industry. Partnership Africa Canada was created in 1986 to help with the crisis in Africa. This organization is also part of the Diamond Development Initiative. The Diamond Development Initiative helps improve and regulate the legal diamond industry.\n\nThe Kimberley Process was initiated in May 2000 by South Africa with Canada a major supporter of instituting the scheme. Canada has now passed several laws that help stop the trade of conflict diamonds. The laws deal with the export and import of rough diamonds, and also how they are transferred. In December 2002 the Export and Import of Rough Diamonds Act was passed by the Canadian government. This law acts as a system that helps control the importing, exporting and transporting of rough diamonds through Canada. The Export and Import of Rough Diamonds Act also states that the Kimberley Process is the minimum requirement of certifying rough diamonds and a certificate is also required for all shipments of diamonds. This certificate is called the Canadian Certificate, it gives permission for an officer to seize any shipment of diamonds that does not meet the requirements of the Export and Import of Rough Diamonds Act.\n\nThe Government of the Northwest Territories of Canada (GNWT) also has a unique certification program. They offer a Government certificate on all diamonds that are mined, cut, and polished in the Northwest Territories of Canada. Canadian diamonds are tracked from the mine, through the refining process, to the retail jeweler with a unique diamond identification number (DIN) laser inscribed on the diamond's girdle. To obtain this certificate one must cut and polish the diamond in the NWT.\n\nTechnical services have emerged that may act as a solution for tracking diamond movement across borders. A service was launched in July 2016 that allows managers to build systems using a blockchain database for tracking high-value or highly regulated items through a supply chain. Everledger is one using such a system to \"record the movement of diamonds from mines to jewelry stores\" and is one of the inaugural clients of a new blockchain-based tracking service from IBM.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43938119", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43938119", "title": "Blue Labyrinth", "text": "Blue Labyrinth\n\nBlue Labyrinth is a thriller novel by Douglas Preston and Lincoln Child. The book was released on November 11, 2014, by Grand Central Publishing. This is the fourteenth book in the Special Agent Pendergast series.\n\n—Review by \"Kirkus Reviews\"\n\n"}
{"id": "364588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364588", "title": "Brimstone and Treacle", "text": "Brimstone and Treacle\n\nBrimstone and Treacle is a 1976 BBC television play by Dennis Potter. Originally intended for broadcast as an episode of the \"Play for Today\" series, it remained untransmitted until 1987. The play, featuring Denholm Elliott, was made into a film version (released in 1982) co-starring Sting.\n\nThe play features a middle-aged middle-class couple living in a north London suburb whose life has been catastrophically affected by a hit-and-run accident which has left their beautiful undergraduate daughter totally dependent upon them, but their lives are dramatically changed by the arrival of a mysterious young stranger.\n\nFor two years, Tom and Amy Bates have been struggling to cope with their altered lives, after their daughter Pattie (or Patricia) was severely injured in a hit-and-run accident. Pattie is unable to walk, completely dependent upon others for the activities of daily living, and seemingly unable to communicate beyond making unintelligible sounds. Although poorly educated and gullible, Amy Bates firmly believes that Pattie is able to understand what is being said in her presence, whereas Tom Bates has given up all hope of her recovery. In fact, judging from the sounds she makes, Pattie seems to realise what is going on around her, but Tom Bates is beyond noticing.\n\nOne day on his way home from work he witnesses a handsome, well-dressed young man collapse in the street. Bates is among the passersby who offer to help him. The young man, who gives his name as Martin Taylor, quickly recovers. A few hours later he turns up at the Bates', handing Tom his wallet, which Martin pretends Tom lost in the general hubbub. Though the cash is gone, Bates' credit card is still there. Although Martin's true identity remains a mystery, Sting (who played Martin in the film production) has said that he believes him to be the Devil.\n\nFrom the moment he enters the house, he casts furtive and knowing glances at the audience (according to the stage directions) so they know at once that he is not what he pretends to be. He claims to have been Pattie's fiancé.\n\nHe offers to be at Pattie's side despite the changed circumstances, and care for her for an unspecified period of time. Amy Bates in particular jumps at the suggestion; she has not had an hour off since Pattie's accident and is stranded in the house without the chance to go even to the hairdressers or do some window-shopping.\n\nTom Bates is reluctant to accept Martin's help. He has always been very choosy about his daughter's friends, and as he cannot remember Pattie ever mentioning Martin's name, he does not want her to be left alone with what might well be a complete stranger. Eventually Martin wins him over by his excellent cooking and lip service to his bigotry; Tom has joined the National Front.\n\nAt the first opportunity, Martin rapes the helpless Pattie (although in the film version, the rape comes late in the action, precipitating Pattie's return to consciousness shortly after he removes her nappy). When Amy Bates comes back from the hairdressers she recognises a change in her daughter's facial expression, but attributes it to Martin's presence. However, when Martin tries to rape the disabled girl again after Mr. and Mrs. Bates have gone to bed, Pattie starts screaming so loudly that he runs out of the house. When the Bateses come to see what has happened to their daughter, they find that she has fully recovered from her disabilities, and though still confused, asks her father what has been happening to her. She also recovers her memories of the events preceding her accident, which result from her discovery of her father's infidelity.\n\n\"Brimstone and Treacle\" was originally written by Potter as a television play, commissioned, paid for and recorded in 1976 by the BBC, for their \"Play for Today\" slot. The cast were Denholm Elliott (Mr. Bates), Michael Kitchen (Martin), Patricia Lawrence (Mrs. Bates) and Michelle Newell (Pattie); plus minor characters.\n\nIt was withdrawn shortly before its scheduled transmission, it was listed in the \"Radio Times\", because then Director of Television Programmes Alasdair Milne found it \"nauseating\" though \"brilliantly made\". \"Brimstone and Treacle\" was finally shown in August 1987, and has been released as a DVD.\n\nRewritten by Potter for the stage, the play premiered on 11 October 1977 at the Crucible Theatre, Sheffield.\n\nA film version, called \"Brimstone & Treacle\", directed by Richard Loncraine and starring Denholm Elliott (Bates), Joan Plowright (Mrs. Bates), Suzanna Hamilton (Pattie) and Sting (Martin) was released in 1982 and is also available on DVD. In the film, Mrs. Bates' first name is Norma instead of Amy.\n\nThe film's soundtrack includes works by The Police, Sting, The Go-Go's, and Squeeze, while Sting's cover of \"Spread a Little Happiness\" reached number 16 in the UK Singles Chart.\n\n\"Brimstone & Treacle\" was released to DVD by MGM Home Video on September 16th, 2003 as a Region 1 widescreen DVD.\n\nIn 1978, Potter said:I had written \"Brimstone and Treacle\" in difficult personal circumstances. Years of acute psoriatic arthropathy—unpleasantly affecting skin and joints—had not only taken their toll in physical damage but had also, and perhaps inevitably, mediated my view of the world and the people in it. I recall writing (and the words now make me shudder) that the only meaningful sacrament left to human beings was for them to gather in the streets in order to be sick together, splashing vomit on the paving stones as the final and most eloquent plea to an apparently deaf, dumb and blind God. [...] I was engaged in an extremely severe struggle not so much against the dull grind of a painful and debilitating illness but with unresolved, almost unacknowledged, 'spiritual' questions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56419978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56419978", "title": "Building of Baku City Executive Power", "text": "Building of Baku City Executive Power\n\nThe Building of Baku City Executive Power is an administrative building at Istiglaliyyat Street, 4. The building was built in Baroque style in 1900–1904 on the basis of architect Józef Gosławski's project. The building is the last work of architect Gosławski. After the death of Gosławski in 1904, the project was initially led by Kazimierz Skórewicz, later by Józef Płoszko.\n\nThe building constructed on the order of Baku Duma is currently being used by Executive Authority of the Baku City. The building was also registered as a national architectural monument by the decision of the Cabinet of Ministers of the Republic of Azerbaijan dated 2 August 2001, No. 132.\n\nIn 1898, Kazimierz Skórewicz prepared detailed sketch project with assignment of State Duma, Construction Commission, which included Gosławski, Józef Płoszko, Skórewicz and Adolf Eichler. On 18 July 1898, after the Commission evaluated Skurvick's sketch project, it was decided to assign Gosławski the plan, façade works. It's unknown to determine if Gosławski used Skórewicz's ideas, since there is no sketch of Skórewicz in the archives. \n\nAlthough the building was designed with side wings, the construction began with the main building, and the cost of such large construction was too heavy for the city treasury. On 18 May 1900, a solemn ceremony was held for groundbreaking of city duma and first administrative building of the city's personal services. The Construction Commission carefully monitored the construction progress and the quality process. Particular attention was paid to the quality of the stone chosen for facade walls, as it could have an effect not only on firmness, but also on the general impression. \n\nOn the eve of the construction of the first floor in the course of construction works, the governor of Baku requires the mayor to send the project to confirm it. He referred to the necessity of the governor's approval of the construction of public and private buildings for the community halls. According to some statements, Gosławski prepared a special project part of the building intended for the hall, \"specially designed for the Duma sessions and designed as an amphitheater in the style of a parliamentary hall\". The cost of this additional building was 51,000 rubles, and the cost of the whole building reached 441,174 rubles. Later this idea lost its importance.\nAfter the main construction of the building and the cleaning of the construction dump, the chief city gardener offered to plant \"a garden to serve the beauty of architecture\" in front of the building. He drafted the garden and in 1904 this project was implemented.\n\nAfter the death of Gosławski on 15 January 1904, Skórewicz, who was appointed to manage the construction of the building, made a great effort to keep the architectural idea completely and do not load interiors by Uprava and Duma. The weakening of the construction commission, which had completed the work of the building, led to the stoppage of work to be done, and Skórewicz, who could not work without the commission's decision, demanded the commission to take over the completed work because the successful completion of the construction of the city house was dependent on it.\n\nUnder the direction of Józef Płoszko, one of the flanks on the premises for the Upravan water pipeline department was built, based on the Gosławski's project. The construction started in the summer of 1911 was completed on 27 September 1912 and the building was handed over. \n\nThe stones used for the facades of the building was shaved and prepared by the Atayev brothers (masters Salman, Aslan, Iskender, Abuzar, Eyyub) in Baku. Bricks were used on the facade of two upper floors as the artistic element of the Gosławski composition. At that time, new modern-style facing materials were beginning to be included in the structure of buildings. Since this was a very expensive material, it is not widely distributed in Baku buildings. However, in the architectural facade of the City Duma building, this color element has been an effective part of the building's history and modernity. For the second and third floors of the Gosławski's project, he included a red brick as a facing material in the overall estimate. The construction was successful and as Gosławski's report to construction commission, it was necessary to order a bricks to keep the construction going. While reviewing the history of the City Duma's construction process, it becomes evident that Gosławski was the chief architect of the city and the author of the building project, but did not have the right to act freely, and sanction of the construction commission was necessary in the solution of each issue.\n\nWhen fasading with red bricks it became clear that white flakes could not be cleaned on the bricks. At that time, Gosławski, who did not know how to deal with this difficult situation and how to solve the problem, appealed to the journal of \"Civil Engineers Society news\", published in St. Petersburg. In his question, Gosławski explains that the sulfuric acid solution used to remove the shingles had a negative effect on the lime stone used to cover all facades, saying that \"it cannot be used, and I do not know any other method.\" At the same time, he was advised to familiarize himself with some articles in \"Brushing and Cleaning the Brick\" magazine. There is no information about the architect's use of these tips or the solution of this serious problem.\n\nDifficulties appeared between the governor of Baku and the City Duma, who reported on 3 May 1901, to the commander of the civilian section in the Caucasus while building a tower directly on the front of the building. Because, any change in the plan required higher authorities permission. Based on the Gosławski project, the tower on the sidewalk reduced width of the sidewalk because it stood on the arches. \n\nAfter the approval of the tower, the price of the building reached 400,000 rubles.\n\nAt the beginning of 1902, the building was almost ready, with carpentry and roof covering started to be completed by January 1903. In 1903, a large and expressive silhouette of the tower of the city house was selected, with a tall roof effectively worked on Nikolaevski Street. The former mayor of Baku, A. Novikov, explains why he was taking such a decision on the roof cover:\nIn spite of the strong protest of the mayor, the construction commission did not pay attention to his idea, but allowed the architect to choose the closest choice to the overall architectural appearance of the city architecture. By the end of 1902, the construction of the house was completed without interior, and Gosławski wanted a vacation with the due to his illness. The Duma fulfilled his request, taking into account the services of the city's architect, and appointed Skórewicz as a follower of his work.\nGosławski who respected the classic scheme of the composition, symmetrically solved the facade of the building, and expressed a vertical tower against the horizontal divisions of the main volume of the building of Duma. While preparing his own projects, he was in the position of architectural unexpectedness for urban buildings.\n\nThe building of the Duma became an important factor in construction of large and monumental buildings of different historical styles on the central street, distinguished by the high quality of architecture.\nThe three-storeyed building of the Duma dominates the historical center of the city with the use of the Baroque motifs in the original interpretation, with the classic methods of composition. Putting tower at the center of the main façade, it combines it with organic volumes, and the whole composition was given artifacts that lacked at that time the central city highway – Nikolayevski Street. The brightly decorated facades both in general and in separate details, the proportion of divisions, the sculpture of stone details have led to the formation of the expressive facade of the Duma building. Gosławski has successfully solved the color duplication of the two upper floors with the facade element of the composition. Facing brick forms interesting color gamma between the limestone window frames, without disturbing unity of the architecture.\n\nThe center of the fasad is decorated with the emblem of the city of Baku. In the middle of the emblem protected till today, three golden torchs depicting Azerbaijan as a land of fire are depicted on the blue waves. \n\nThe architecture of the interior is built with seriousness and severity. Gosławski used rhythm of Corinthian order pilaster. He incorporates semicircular arches in the interiors of the building as a leading compositing element in the central staircase.\n\nAlthough the Duma was allocating funds for technical specifications in the construction process, the development of the interior of the house was slow. The death of the author of the building, Gosławski, also affected the reduction of temp in completion. In order to accelerate the process, it was decided to change the architect for construction in the interior development process. In this chair, Skórewicz was replaced by Józef Płoszko, who later became known as the architect of the Ismailiyya Palace. Both of these architects had a great tact for not to go beyond the plan of Gosławski. Nevertheless, each of these architects had their own creative lineage, as they knew the construction process as they were, and that affected the building's interior space and its completion.\n\nFor the first time, Gosławski used the classical order system in the interior design of the meeting room of Duma at full capacity. It divides the walls of the walls into arrows in three sections. The second half of the interior of the hall appears as a continuation of the first one in other interpretations, perimeters, quiet horizontal and vertical divisions, and new architectural methods. The hall's plafon completes the overall architecture of the meeting room's interior. \nExquisite work to be used in the interior of the building required great skill. For this purpose the competition was announced, the works of three companies were presented, among which the French company, which was built by Franz's master Pojiltsov, has been declared as \"satisfying the requirements with the smoothness and elegance of the painting\". \"Florencia\" company was entrusted with painting work. This company has made painting works consisting of adhesive paint and wall panels of the ceiling in the rooms of Duma.\n\nDespite the positive architectural quality of the meeting hall, it was discovered that the acoustics were weak during the operation. Since Gosławski was ill, he could not solve the acoustics of the hall that were important to such places. When the issue of improving the acoustics of the meeting hall emerged, it was decided to engage civil engineer Nikolai Bayev, who built a magnificent acoustics at Azerbaijan State Academic Opera and Ballet Theater by order of Mayilov brothers in 1911.\n\nWhen Bayev understood that it's not an escape from the situation, he offered to cover all the walls of the hall with a mushroom, and paint it, which was made in the concert hall of the Saint Petersburg Conservatory, according to the new version he found to improve the acoustics of the hall. Soon they draw out linen covers, flooring carpets and heavy curtains of windows, but due to lack of funding Bayev's project could not be implemented.\n"}
{"id": "4253959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4253959", "title": "Chinese Academy of Engineering", "text": "Chinese Academy of Engineering\n\nThe Chinese Academy of Engineering (CAE, ) is the national academy of the People's Republic of China for engineering. It was established in 1994 and is an institution of the State Council of China. The CAE and the Chinese Academy of Sciences are often referred to together as the \"Two Academies\". Its president is Zhou Ji.\n\nSince the establishment of CAE, entrusted by the relevant ministries and commissions, the Academy has offered consultancy to the State on major programs, planning, guidelines, and policies. With the incitation by various ministries of the central government as well as local governments, the Academy has organized its members to make surveys on the forefront, and to put forward strategic opinions and proposals. These entrusted projects have played an important role in maximizing the participation of the members in the macro decision-making of the State. In the meantime, the members, based on their own experiences and perspectives accumulated in a long term and in combination with international trends of the development of engineering science and technology, have regularly and actively put forward their opinions and suggestions.\n\n\nThe CAE is composed of elected members with the highest honor in the community of engineering and technological sciences of the nation.\nThe General Assembly of the CAE is the highest decision-making body of the Academy and is held during the first week of June biennially.\n\nMember of Chinese Academy of Engineering is the highest academic title in engineering science and technology in China. It is a lifelong honor. It is must be elected by existing members.\nThe membership of Chinese Academy of Engineering consists of members, senior members and foreign members. Foreigner members are non-chinese citizens who are distinguished and recognized for their respective field of engineering.\n\nAs of 2018, the academy has 868 members, with 65 foreigner members. The composition of its members include:\n\n\nThe senior engineers, professors and other scholars or specialists, who shall have the Chinese citizenship (including those who reside in Taiwan Province, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, Macao Special Administrative Region and overseas) and who have made significant and creative achievements and contributions in the fields of engineering and technological sciences, are qualified for the membership of the Academy.\n\nThe Election of new Members is conducted biennially. Total numbers of Members to be elected in each election is decided by the Governing Body of the Academy.\nExamination and election of the candidates are done in every Academy Division and the voting is anonymous. The results of the voting is then examined and validated by the Governing Board.\n\nISSN Print 1009-1724\n\nISSN Print 2095-8099\n\nISSN Online 2096-0026\n\n\nThe Chinese Academy of Engineering has collaborated with other major academies (in policy development, engineering research projects, etc.), such as those \nfrom UK and USA:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17384703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17384703", "title": "Choral symphony", "text": "Choral symphony\n\nA choral symphony is a musical composition for orchestra, choir, and sometimes solo vocalists that, in its internal workings and overall musical architecture, adheres broadly to symphonic musical form. The term \"choral symphony\" in this context was coined by Hector Berlioz when he described his \"Roméo et Juliette\" as such in his five-paragraph introduction to that work. The direct antecedent for the choral symphony is Ludwig van Beethoven's Ninth Symphony. Beethoven's Ninth incorporates part of the \"Ode an die Freude\" (\"Ode to Joy\"), a poem by Friedrich Schiller, with text sung by soloists and chorus in the last movement. It is the first example of a major composer's use of the human voice on the same level as instruments in a symphony.\n\nA few 19th-century composers, notably Felix Mendelssohn and Franz Liszt, followed Beethoven in producing choral symphonic works. Notable works in the genre were produced in the 20th century by Gustav Mahler, Sergei Rachmaninoff, Igor Stravinsky, Ralph Vaughan Williams, Benjamin Britten and Dmitri Shostakovich, among others. The final years of the 20th century and the opening of the 21st century have seen several new works in this genre, among them compositions by Peter Maxwell Davies, Tan Dun, Philip Glass, Hans Werner Henze, Krzysztof Penderecki, William Bolcom and Robert Strassburg\n\nThe term \"choral symphony\" indicates the composer's intention that the work be symphonic, even with its fusion of narrative or dramatic elements that stems from the inclusion of words. To this end, the words are often treated symphonically to pursue non-narrative ends, by use of frequent repetition of important words and phrases, and the transposing, reordering or omission of passages of the set text. The text often determines the basic symphonic outline, while the orchestra's role in conveying the musical ideas is similar in importance to that of the chorus and soloists. Even with a symphonic emphasis, a choral symphony is often influenced in musical form and content by an external narrative, even in parts where there is no singing.\n\nThe symphony had established itself by the end of the 18th century as the most prestigious of instrumental genres. While the genre had been developed with considerable intensity throughout that century and appeared in a wide range of occasions, it was generally used as an opening or closing work; in between would be works that included vocal and instrumental soloists. Because of its lack of written text for focus, it was seen as a vehicle for entertainment rather than for social, moral or intellectual ideas. As the symphony grew in size and artistic significance, thanks in part to efforts in the form by Haydn, Mozart and Beethoven, it also amassed greater prestige. A concurrent change in attitude toward instrumental music in general also took place, and the lack of text, once seen as a handicap, became considered a virtue.\n\nIn 1824, Beethoven redefined the symphony genre in his Ninth by introducing text and voice into a previously instrumental genre. His doing so sparked a debate on the future of the symphony itself. Beethoven's use of words, according to Richard Wagner, had shown \"the limits of purely instrumental music\" and marked \"the end of the symphony as a vital genre\". Others were not sure how to proceed—whether to emulate the Ninth by writing symphonies with choral finales, or to develop the symphony genre in a purely instrumental fashion. Eventually, musicologist Mark Evan Bonds writes, the symphony was seen \"as an all-embracing, cosmic drama that transcended the realm of sound alone\".\n\nSome composers both emulated and expanded upon Beethoven's model. Berlioz showed in his choral symphony \"Roméo et Juliette\" a fresh approach to the epic nature of the symphony as he used voices to blend music and narrative but saved crucial moments of that narrative for the orchestra alone. In doing so, Bonds writes, Berlioz illustrates for subsequent composers \"new approaches for addressing the metaphysical in the realm of the symphony\". Mendelssohn wrote his Lobgesang as a work for chorus, soloists and orchestra. Labeling the work a \"symphony-cantata\", he expanded the choral finale to nine movements by including sections for vocal soloists, recitatives and sections for chorus; this made the vocal part longer than the three purely orchestral sections that preceded it. Liszt wrote two choral symphonies, following in these multi-movement forms the same compositional practices and programmatic goals he had established in his symphonic poems.\nAfter Liszt, Mahler took on the legacy of Beethoven in his early symphonies, in what Bonds terms \"their striving for a utopian finale\". Towards this end Mahler used a chorus and soloists in the finale of his Second Symphony, the \"Resurrection\". In his Third, he wrote a purely instrumental finale following two vocal movements, and in his Fourth a vocal finale is sung by a solo soprano. After writing his Fifth, Sixth and Seventh Symphonies as purely instrumental works, Mahler returned to the vein of \"festival-symphonic ceremonial\" in his Eighth Symphony, which integrates text throughout the body of the work. After Mahler, the choral symphony became a more common genre, taking a number of compositional turns in the process. Some composers, such as Britten, Rachmaninoff, Shostakovich and Vaughan Williams, followed symphonic form strictly. Others, such as Havergal Brian, Alfred Schnittke and Karol Szymanowski, chose either to expand symphonic form or to use different symphonic structures altogether.\n\nThroughout the history of the choral symphony, works have been composed for special occasions. One of the earliest was Mendelssohn's Lobgesang, commissioned by the city of Leipzig in 1840 to celebrate the 400th anniversary of Johannes Gutenberg's invention of movable type. More than a century later, Henryk Górecki's Second Symphony, subtitled \"Copernican\", was commissioned in 1973 by the Kosciuszko Foundation in New York to celebrate the 500th anniversary of the astronomer Nicolaus Copernicus. In between these two works, in 1930, conductor Serge Koussevitzky asked Stravinsky to write the \"Symphony of Psalms\" for the 50th anniversary of the Boston Symphony Orchestra and, in 1946, composer Henry Barraud, then head of Radiodiffusion Française, commissioned Darius Milhaud to write his Third Symphony, subtitled \"Te Deum\", to commemorate the end of World War II.\n\nIn the final years of the 20th century and the early years of the 21st, more such choral symphonies were written. Krzysztof Penderecki's Seventh Symphony was for the third millennium of the city of Jerusalem. Tan Dun's \"Symphony 1997: Heaven Earth Mankind\" commemorated the transfer of sovereignty over Hong Kong that year to the People's Republic of China. Philip Glass's Fifth Symphony as one of several pieces commissioned to celebrate the beginning of the 21st century. Paul Spicer's choral symphony \"Unfinished Remembering\" (2014, libretto by Euan Tait) was commissioned to commemorate the centenary of the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nLike an oratorio or an opera, a choral symphony is a musical work for orchestra, choir and (often) solo voices, although a few have been written for unaccompanied voices. Berlioz, who in 1858 first coined the term when describing his work \"Roméo et Juliette\", explained the distinctive relationship he envisaged between voice and orchestra:\n\nEven though voices are often used, it is neither a concert opera nor a cantata, but a choral symphony. If there is singing, almost from the beginning, it is to prepare the listener's mind for the dramatic scenes whose feelings and passions are to be expressed by the orchestra. It is also to introduce the choral masses gradually into the musical development, when their too sudden appearance would have damaged the compositions's unity...\n\nUnlike oratorios or operas, which are generally structured dramaturgically into arias, recitatives and choruses, a choral symphony is structured like a symphony, in movements. It may employ the traditional four-movement scheme of a fast opening movement, slow movement, scherzo and finale, or as with many instrumental symphonies, it may use a different structure of movements. The written text in a choral symphony shares equal standing with the music, as in an oratorio, and the chorus and soloists share equality with the instruments. Over time the use of text allowed the choral symphony to evolve from an instrumental symphony with a choral finale, as in the Beethoven's Ninth, to a composition that can use voices and instruments throughout the entire composition, as in Stravinsky's \"Symphony of Psalms\" or Mahler's Eighth Symphony.\n\nSometimes the text can give a basic outline that correlates to the four-movement scheme of a symphony. For instance, the four-part structure of Edgar Allan Poe's \"The Bells\", a progression from youth to marriage, maturity, and death, naturally suggested the four movements of a symphony to Sergei Rachmaninoff, which he followed in his choral symphony of the same name. The text can encourage a composer to expand a choral symphony past the normal bounds of the symphonic genre, as with Berlioz for his \"Roméo et Juliette\", yet stay within the basic structural or aesthetic intent of symphonic form. It can also influence the musical content in parts where there is no singing, as in \"Roméo et Juliette\". There, Berlioz allows the orchestra to express the majority of the drama in instrumental music and saves words for expository and narrative sections of the work.\n\nAs in an oratorio, the written text in a choral symphony can be as important as the music, and the chorus and soloists can participate equally with the instruments in the exposition and development of musical ideas. The text can also help determine whether the composer follows symphonic form strictly, as in the case of Rachmaninoff, Britten and Shostakovich, or whether they expand symphonic form, as in the case of Berlioz, Mahler and Havergal Brian. Sometimes the choice of text has led the composer to different symphonic structures, as with Szymanowski, Schnittke and, again, Havergal Brian. The composer can also choose to treat the text fluidly, in a manner more like music than narrative. Such was the case with Vaughan Williams, Mahler and Philip Glass.\n\nVaughan Williams' program note for \"A Sea Symphony\" discusses how the text was to be treated as music. The composer writes, \"The plan of the work is symphonic rather than narrative or dramatic, and this may be held to justify the frequent repetition of important words and phrases which occur in the poem. The words as well as the music are thus treated symphonically.\" Walt Whitman's poems inspired him to write the symphony, and Whitman's use of free verse became appreciated at a time where fluidity of structure was becoming more attractive than traditional, metrical settings of text. This fluidity helped facilitate the non-narrative, symphonic treatment of text that Vaughan Williams had in mind. In the third movement in particular, the text is loosely descriptive and can be \"pushed about by the music\", some lines being repeated, some not consecutive in the written text immediately following one another in the music, and some left out entirely.\n\nVaughan Williams was not the only composer following a non-narrative approach to his text. Mahler took a similar, perhaps even more radical approach in his Eighth Symphony, presenting many lines of the first part, \"Veni, Creator Spiritus\", in what music writer and critic Michael Steinberg referred to as \"an incredibly dense growth of repetitions, combinations, inversions, transpositions and conflations\". He does the same with Goethe's text in Part Two of the symphony, making two substantial cuts and other changes.\n\nOther works take the use of text as music still further. Vaughan Williams uses a chorus of women's voices wordlessly in his \"Sinfonia Antartica\", based on his music for the film \"Scott of the Antarctic\", to help set the bleakness of the overall atmosphere. While a chorus is used in the second and third movements of Glass's Seventh Symphony, also known as \"A Toltec Symphony\", the text contains no actual words; the composer states that it is instead formed \"from loose syllables that add to the evocative context of the overall orchestral texture\".\n\nStravinsky said about the texts of his \"Symphony of Psalms\" that \"it is not a symphony in which I have included \"Psalms\" to be sung. On the contrary, it is the singing of the \"Psalms\" that I am symphonizing\". This decision was as much musical as it was textual. Stravinsky's counterpoint required several musical voices to function simultaneously, independent melodically and rhythmically, yet interdependent harmonically. They would sound very different when heard separately, yet harmonious when heard together. To facilitate maximum clarity in this interplay of voices, Stravinsky used \"a choral and instrumental ensemble in which the two elements should be on an equal footing, neither of them outweighing the other\".\n\nMahler's intent in writing his Eighth Symphony for exceptionally large forces was a similar balance between vocal and instrumental forces. It was not simply an attempt at grandiose effect, though the composer's use of such forces earned the work the subtitle \"Symphony of a Thousand\" from his press agent (a name still applied to the symphony). Like Stravinsky, Mahler makes extensive and extended use of counterpoint, especially in the first part, \"Veni Creator Spiritus\". Throughout this section, according to music writer Michael Kennedy, Mahler displays considerable mastery in manipulating multiple independent melodic voices. Musicologist Deryck Cooke adds that Mahler handles his huge forces \"with extraordinary clarity\".\n\nVaughan Williams also insisted on a balance between words and music in \"A Sea Symphony\", writing in his program note for the work, \"It is also noticeable that the orchestra has an equal share with the chorus and soloists in carrying out the musical ideas\". Music critic Samuel Langford, writing about the premiere of the work for \"The Manchester Guardian\", concurred with the composer, writing, \"It is the nearest approach we have to a real choral symphony, one in which the voices are used throughout just as freely as the orchestra.\"\n\nIn his \"Leaves of Grass: A Choral Symphony\", Robert Strassburg composed a symphonic \"musical setting\" in ten movements for the poetry of Walt Whiteman while balancing the contributions of a narrator, a chorus and an orchestra.\n\nRachmaninoff's choral symphony \"The Bells\" reflected the four-part progression from youth to marriage, maturity, and death in Poe's poem. Britten reversed the pattern for his \"Spring Symphony\"—the four sections of the symphony represent, in its composer's words, \"the progress of Winter to Spring and the reawakening of the earth and life which that means... It is in the traditional four movement shape of a symphony, but with the movements divided into shorter sections bound together by a similar mood or point of view.\"\n\nThe gestation of Shostakovich's Thirteenth Symphony, \"Babi Yar\", was only slightly less straightforward. He set the poem \"Babi Yar\" by Yevgeny Yevtushenko almost immediately upon reading it, initially considering it a single-movement composition. Discovering three other Yevtushenko poems in the poet's collection \"Vzmakh ruki\" (\"A Wave of the Hand\") prompted him to proceed to a full-length choral symphony, with \"A Career\" as the closing movement. Musicologist Francis Maes comments that Shostakovich did so by complementing \"Babi Yar's\" theme of Jewish suffering with Yevtushenko's verses about other Soviet abuses: \"'At the Store' is a tribute to the women who have to stand in line for hours to buy the most basic foods... 'Fears' evokes the terror under Stalin. 'A Career' is an attack on bureaucrats and a tribute to genuine creativity\". Music historian Boris Schwarz adds that the poems, in the order Shostakovich places them, form a strongly dramatic opening movement, a scherzo, two slow movements and a finale.\n\nIn other cases, the choice of text has led the composer to different symphonic structures. Havergal Brian allowed the form of his Fourth Symphony, subtitled \"Das Siegeslied\" (Psalm of Victory), to be dictated by the three-part structure of his text, Psalm 68; the setting of Verses 13–18 for soprano solo and orchestra forms a quiet interlude between two wilder, highly chromatic martial ones set for massive choral and orchestral forces. Likewise, Szymanowski allowed the text by 13th-century Persian poet Rumi to dictate what Dr. Jim Samson calls the \"single tripartite movement\" and \"overall arch structure\" of his Third Symphony, subtitled \"Song of the Night\".\n\nA composer may also respond to a text by expanding a choral symphony beyond the normal bounds of the symphonic genre. This is evident in the unusual orchestration and stage directions Berlioz prepared for his \"Roméo et Juliette\". This piece is actually in seven movements, and calls for an intermission after the fourth movement – the \"Queen Mab Scherzo\" – to remove the harps from the stage and bring on the chorus of Capulets for the funeral march that follows. Berlioz biographer D. Kern Holoman observed that, \"as Berlioz saw it, the work is simply Beethovenian in design, with the narrative elements overlain. Its core approaches a five-movement symphony with the choral finale and, as in the \"[Symphonie] Fantastique\", both a scherzo and a march... The 'extra' movements are thus the introduction with its \"potpourri\" of subsections and the descriptive tomb scene [at the end of the work].\"\n\nMahler expanded the Beethovenian model for programmatic as well as symphonic reasons in his Second Symphony, the \"Resurrection\", the vocal fourth movement, \"Urlicht\", bridging the childlike faith of the third movement with the ideological tension Mahler seeks to resolve in the finale. He then abandoned this pattern for his Third Symphony, as two movements for voices and orchestra follow three purely instrumental ones before the finale returns to instruments alone. Like Mahler, Havergal Brian expanded the Beethovenian model, but on a much larger scale and with far larger orchestral and choral forces, in his Symphony No. 1 \"The Gothic\". Written between 1919 and 1927, the symphony was inspired by Goethe's \"Faust\" and Gothic cathedral architecture. The Brian First is in two parts. The first consists of three instrumental movements; the second, also in three movements and over an hour in length, is a Latin setting of the \"Te Deum\".\n\nA few composers have written symphonies for unaccompanied chorus, in which the choir performs both vocal and instrumental functions. Granville Bantock composed three such works—\"Atalanta in Calydon\" (1911), \"Vanity of Vanities\" (1913) and \"A Pageant of Human Life\" (1913). His \"Atalanta\", called by musicologist Herbert Antcliffe \"the most important [work of the three] alike in technical experiment and in inspiration\", was written for a choir of at least 200, the composer specifying \"'not less than 10 voices for each part,'\" a work with 20 separate vocal parts. Using these forces, Bantock formed groups \"of different weights and colors to get something of the varied play of tints and perspective [of an orchestra]\". In addition, the choir is generally divided into three sections, approximating the timbres of woodwinds, brass and strings. Within these divisions, Antcliffe writes,\n\nAlmost every possible means of vocal expression is employed separately or in combination with others. To hear the different parts of the choir describing in word and tone \"laughter\" and \"tears\" respectively at the same time is to realize how little the possibilities of choral singing have as yet been grasped by the ordinary conductor and composer. Such combinations are extremely effective when properly achieved, but they are very difficult to achieve.\n\nRoy Harris wrote his Symphony for Voices in 1935 for \"a cappella\" choir split into eight parts. Harris focused on harmony, rhythm and dynamics, allowing the text by Walt Whitman to dictate the choral writing. \"In a real sense, the human strivings so vividly portrayed in Whitman's poetry find a musical analog to the trials to which the singers are subjected\", John Profitt writes both of the music's difficulty for performers and of its highly evocative quality. Malcolm Williamson wrote his Symphony for Voices between 1960 and 1962, setting texts by Australian poet James McAuley. Lewis Mitchell writes that the work is not a symphony in any true sense, but rather a four-movement work preceded by an invocation for solo contralto. The text is a combination of poems celebrating the Australian wilderness and visionary Christianity, its jagged lines and rhythms matched by the music. Mitchell writes, \"Of all his choral works, with the possible exception of the Requiem for a Tribe Brother, the Symphony is the most Australian in feeling\".\n\nSome recent efforts have paid less attention to symphonic form and more to programmic intent. Hans Werner Henze wrote his 1997 Ninth Symphony in seven movements, basing the structure of the symphony on the novel \"The Seventh Cross\" by Anna Seghers. The novel recounts the flight of seven fugitives from a Nazi prison camp, the seven crosses symbolizing the seven death sentences; the ordeal of the one prisoner who makes it to freedom becomes the crux of the text. Penderecki's Seventh Symphony, subtitled \"Seven Gates of Jerusalem\" and originally conceived as an oratorio, is not only written in seven movements but, musicologist Richard Whitehouse writes, is \"pervaded by the number 'seven' at various levels.\" An extensive system of seven-note phrases binds the work together, as well as the frequent use of seven notes repeated at a single pitch. Seven chords played \"fortissimo\" bring the work to a close.\n\nPhilip Glass's Fifth Symphony, completed in 1999 and subtitled \"Requiem, Bardo and Nirmanakaya\", is written in 12 movements to fulfill its programmatic intent. Glass writes, \"My plan has been for the symphony to represent a broad spectrum of many of the world's great 'wisdom' traditions\", synthesizing \"a vocal text that begins before the world's creation, passes through earthly life and paradise, and closes with a future dedication\". Glass writes that he considered the millennium at the beginning of the 21st century to be a symbolic bridge between past, present and spiritual rebirth.\n\nMore recently, Glass based the philosophical and musical structure for his Seventh Symphony on the Wirrarika sacred trinity. Glass wrote about the work's respective movement headings and their relation to the overall structure of the symphony, \"'The Corn' represents a direct link between Mother Earth and the well-being of human beings... 'The Sacred Root' is found in the high deserts of north and central Mexico, and is understood to be the doorway to the world of the Spirit. 'The Blue Deer' is considered the holder of the Book of Knowledge. Any man or woman who aspires to be a 'Person of Knowledge' will, through arduous training and effort, have to encounter the Blue Deer...\"\n\nAddition of a text can effectively change the programmatic intent of a composition, as with the two choral symphonies of Franz Liszt. Both the \"Faust\" and \"Dante\" symphonies were conceived as purely instrumental works and only later became choral symphonies. However, while Liszt authority Humphrey Searle asserts that Liszt's later inclusion of a chorus effectively sums up \"Faust\" and makes it complete, another Liszt expert, Reeves Shulstad, suggests that Liszt changed the work's dramatic focus to the point of meriting a different interpretation of the work itself. According to Shulstad, \"Liszt's original version of 1854 ended with a last fleeting reference to Gretchen and an ... orchestral peroration in C major, based on the most majestic of themes from the opening movement. One might say that this conclusion remains within the persona of Faust and his imagination\". When Liszt rethought the piece three years later, he added a \"Chorus mysticus\", the male chorus singing the final words from Goethe's \"Faust\". The tenor soloist, accompanied by the chorus, sings the last two lines of the text. \"With the addition of the 'Chorus Mysticus' text\", Shulstad writes, \"the Gretchen theme has been transformed and she no longer appears as a masked Faust. With this direct association to the final scene of the drama we have escaped Faust's imaginings and are hearing another voice commenting on his striving and redemption\".\nLikewise, Liszt's inclusion of a choral finale in his \"Dante\" Symphony changed both the structural and programmatic intent of the work. Liszt's intent was to follow the structure of the \"Divina Commedia\" and compose \"Dante\" in three movements—one each for the \"Inferno\", \"Purgatorio\" and \"Paradiso\". However, Liszt's son-in-law Richard Wagner persuaded him that no earthly composer could faithfully express the joys of Paradise. Liszt dropped the third movement but added a choral element, a Magnificat, at the end of the second. This action, Searle claims, effectively destroyed the work's formal balance and left the listener, like Dante, to gaze upward at the heights of Heaven and hear its music from afar. Shulstad suggests that the choral finale actually helps complete the work's programmatic trajectory from struggle to paradise.\n\nConversely, a text can also spark the birth of a choral symphony, only for that work to become a purely instrumental one when the programmatic focus of the work changes. Shostakovich originally planned his Seventh Symphony as a single-movement choral symphony much like his Second and Third Symphonies. Shostakovich reportedly intended to set a text for the Seventh from the Ninth Psalm, on the theme of vengeance for the shedding of innocent blood. In doing this he was influenced by Stravinsky; he had been deeply impressed with the latter's \"Symphony of Psalms\", which he wanted to emulate in this work. While the Ninth Psalm's theme conveyed Shostakovich's outrage over Stalin's oppression, a public performance of a work with such a text would have been impossible before the German invasion. Hitler's aggression made the performance of such a work feasible, at least in theory; the reference to \"blood\" could then be associated at least officially with Hitler. With Stalin appealing to the Soviets' patriotic and religious sentiments, the authorities were no longer suppressing Orthodox themes or images. Nevertheless, Shostakovich eventually realized that the work encompassed far more than this symbology. He expanded the symphony to the traditional four movements and made it purely instrumental.\n\nWhile Berlioz allowed the programmatic aspects of his text to shape the symphonic form of \"Roméo\" and to guide its content, he also showed how an orchestra could supplant such a text wordlessly to further illustrate it. He wrote in his preface to \"Roméo\":\n\nIf, in the famous garden and cemetery scenes the dialogue of the two lovers, Juliet's asides, and Romeo's passionate outbursts are not sung, if the duets of love and despair are given to the orchestra, the reasons are numerous and easy to comprehend. First, and this alone would be sufficient, it is a symphony and not an opera. Second, since duets of this nature have been handled vocally a thousand times by the greatest masters, it was wise as well as unusual to attempt another means of expression. It is also because the very sublimity of this love made its depiction so dangerous for the musician that he had to give his imagination a latitude that the positive sense of the sung words would not have given him, resorting instead to instrumental language, which is richer, more varied, less precise, and by its very indefiniteness incomparably more powerful in such a case.\n\nAs a manifesto, this paragraph became significant for the amalgamation of symphonic and dramatic elements in the same musical composition. Musicologist Hugh MacDonald writes that as Berlioz kept the idea of symphonic construction closely in mind, he allowed the orchestra to express the majority of the drama in instrumental music and set expository and narrative sections in words. Fellow musicologist Nicholas Temperley suggests that, in \"Roméo\", Berlioz created a model for how a dramatic text could guide the structure of a choral symphony without circumventing that work from being recognizably a symphony. In this sense, musicologist Mark Evans Bonds writes, the symphonies of Liszt and Mahler owe a debt of influence to Berlioz.\n\nMore recently, Alfred Schnittke allowed the programmatic aspects of his texts to dictate the course of both his choral symphonies even when no words were being sung. Schnittke's six-movement Second Symphony, following the Ordinary of the Mass of the Roman Catholic Church, works programmatically on two levels simultaneously. While soloists and chorus briefly perform the mass, set to chorales taken from the Gradual, the orchestra provides an extended running commentary that can continue much longer than the section of the mass being performed. Sometimes the commentary follows a particular chorale but more often is freer and wider ranging in style. Despite the resulting stylistic disparity, biographer Alexander Ivashkin comments, \"musically almost all these sections blend the choral [sic] tune and subsequent extensive orchestral 'commentary.'\" The work becomes what Schnittke called an \"Invisible Mass\", and Ivashkin termed \"a symphony against a chorale backdrop\".\n\nThe program in Schnittke's Fourth Symphony, reflecting the composer's own religious dilemma at the time it was written, is more complex in execution, with the majority of it expressed wordlessly. In the 22 variations that make up the symphony's single movement, Schnittke enacts the 15 traditional , which highlight important moments in the life of Christ. As he did in the Second Symphony, Schnittke simultaneously gives a detailed musical commentary on what is being portrayed. Schnittke does this while using church music from the Catholic, Protestant, Jewish and Orthodox faiths, the orchestral texture becoming extremely dense from the many musical strands progressing at the same time. A tenor and a countertenor also sing wordlessly at two points in the symphony. The composition saves words for a finale that uses all four types of church music contrapuntally as a four-part choir sings the \"Ave Maria\". The choir can choose whether to sing the \"Ave Maria\" in Russian or Latin. The programmatic intent of using these different types of music, Ivashkin writes, is an insistence by the composer \"on the idea ... of the unity of humanity, a synthesis and harmony among various manifestations of belief\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34055652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34055652", "title": "Copenhagen (EWTC show)", "text": "Copenhagen (EWTC show)\n\nCopenhagen is the name of East West Theatre Company's theatre production of the same name; written by Michael Frayn and directed by Nermin Hamzagic. This show is Nermin Hamzagic's first professional directorial engagement and it was soon followed by a documentary called \"Dreamers\" which was selected for screening at Sarajevo Film Festival 09 and Jihlava documentary film festival.\n\n\"Copenhagen\" tells a story of two nuclear physicists and a wife of one of them. Werner Heisenberg was one of the founders of quantum mechanics and he also discovered the Uncertainty Principle. Niels Bohr, Heisenberg’s professor, was one of the scientists whose findings played a crucial role in understanding of structure of atom and quantum mechanics. \n\n\"Copenhagen\", directed by Nermin Hamzagic, was played at a derelict and abandoned Memorial to the Victims of WW II, Vraca Memorial Park in Sarajevo near the so-called inter-entity boundary drawned during the 1991-1995 war in Bosnia and Herzegovina. It was also performed during East West Theatre Company's summer festival called \"Summer Begins With East West\" in June 2009.\n"}
{"id": "765452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=765452", "title": "Dave Allen (comedian)", "text": "Dave Allen (comedian)\n\nDavid Tynan O'Mahony (6 July 193610 March 2005), better known as Dave Allen, was an Irish observational comedian and satirist.\n\nInitially becoming known in Australia during 1963–64, Allen made regular television appearances in the United Kingdom from the later 1960s and until the mid-1980s. The BBC aired his \"Dave Allen Show\" 1972–1986, which was also exported to several other European countries. His career had a major resurgence during the late 1980s and early 1990s. At the height of his career he was Britain's most controversial comedian, regularly provoking indignation at his frequent highlighting of political hypocrisy and disregard for religious authority. His television shows were also broadcast in the United States, Canada, Sweden, Australia and New Zealand.\n\nDavid Tynan O'Mahony was born in Firhouse, Dublin, Ireland, the youngest of three sons of Gerard \"Cully\" Tynan O'Mahony, managing editor of \"The Irish Times\", and an English mother, Jean Archer. His brothers were John and Peter. O'Mahony left school aged 16, after attending the secondary school at Newbridge College, Terenure College and the Catholic University School, and followed his father into journalism. He joined the \"Drogheda Argus\" as a copy boy, but at the age of 19 went to London.\n\nHe drifted through a series of jobs, before becoming a Butlins Redcoat at Skegness in a troupe that also included the British jazz trumpeter and writer John Chilton. At the end of each summer season he did stand-ups at strip clubs and for the next four years appeared in night clubs, theatres and working men's clubs. When entertainment work was slow he sold toys in a Sheffield store and also worked as a door-to-door draught-excluder salesman. He changed his stage surname to \"Allen\" on the prompting of his agent, who believed that few people in Britain could pronounce \"O'Mahony\" correctly. Allen himself hoped that a surname beginning with \"A\" would put him at the top of any agent's list.\n\nAllen lost the top of his left forefinger above the middle knuckle after catching it in a machine cog. However, he enjoyed inventing stories to explain the loss, which became a minor part of his act. One version was that his brother John had surprised him by snapping his jaw shut when they were children, resulting in him biting it off. A further explanation he gave on his programme, \"Dave Allen at Large\", was that he often stuck his finger in his whiskey glass, and it had been eaten away by strong drink. He also said it was worn away from repeatedly brushing the dust from his suit. One of his stand-up jokes was that, when he was a boy, he and his friends would go see a cowboy movie at the local cinema, then come out all ready to play Cowboys and Indians. Staring down at his truncated finger, he would mutter, \"I had a sawn-off shotgun.\" On his show he told a long, elaborate ghost story, ending with \"something evil\" attacking Allen in a dark and haunted house. Allen grabbed and bit the attacker, the studio lights came back up, and it was his own left hand.\n\nAllen's first television appearance was on the BBC talent show \"New Faces\" in 1959. He hosted pop music shows in the early 1960s, including tours by Adam Faith and Helen Shapiro, and in early 1963 was the compère of a tour of Britain, headlined by Shapiro, that also included The Beatles, then starting to become well known. In 1962 he had toured South Africa with American vaudeville star Sophie Tucker, whom he described as \"one of the most charming and delightful performers with whom I have ever worked\". Tucker was impressed with him and suggested that he try his luck in Australia. Moving there, he worked with Digby Wolfe on Australian television, becoming Wolfe's resident comedian.\n\nWhile on tour in Australia in 1963, he quickly proved successful and accepted an offer to headline a television talk show with Channel 9, \"Tonight with Dave Allen\", which was also successful. However, only six months after his television début he was banned from the Australian airwaves when, during a live broadcast, he told his show's producer—who had been pressing him to go to a commercial break—to \"go away and masturbate\", so that he could continue an entertaining interview with Peter Cook and Dudley Moore. The ban was dropped quietly as Allen's popularity continued unabated.\n\nAllen returned to the United Kingdom in 1964 and made a number of appearances on ITV, including \"The Blackpool Show\" and \"Val Parnell's Sunday Night at the London Palladium\", and on the BBC on \"The Val Doonican Show\". In 1967 he hosted his own comedy/chat series, \"Tonight with Dave Allen\", made by ATV, which earned him the Variety Club's ITV Personality of the Year Award.\n\nHe signed with the BBC in 1968 and appeared on \"The Dave Allen Show\", a variety/comedy sketch series. This was followed from 1971-79 by \"Dave Allen at Large\". The theme tune for \"The Dave Allen Show\" and \"Dave Allen at Large\", written by Alan Hawkshaw, was \"Blarney's Stoned\" (originally recorded for KPM in 1969 under the title \"Studio 69\").\n\nThe shows introduced his solo joke-telling-while-sitting-on-a-stool-and-drinking routine. This stand-up routine by Allen led to sketches that continued the themes touched on in the preceding monologues. Meanwhile, he began to appear in theatre. In 1972 he acted as a doctor in the Royal Court's production of Edna O'Brien's play \"A Pagan Place\". With family friend Maggie Smith in the lead, he appeared in \"Peter Pan\" in a run during 1973 and 1974. Allen played the roles of Mr Darling and Captain Hook in the production at the London Coliseum. Allen made \"The Dave Allen Show in Australia\" (1975–1977) for his old employers, Channel 9.\n\nAllen was also a social commentator, appearing in several television documentaries for ITV, beginning with \"Dave Allen in the Melting Pot\" (1969), looking at life in New York City and dealing with issues such as racism and drugs. Later programmes included \"Dave Allen in Search of the Great English Eccentric\" (1974) and \"Eccentrics at Play\" (1974), in which he looked at colourful characters with idiosyncratic passions. \"Both the BBC and Dave Allen received death threats from the IRA and the Provisional IRA\" \nAllen's satirizing of religious ritual, especially Catholic, throughout each episode of \"Dave Allen at Large\" caused minor controversy, which - coupled with sometimes comparatively frank material - earned the show a risqué reputation. In 1977 the Irish state broadcaster RTÉ placed a \"de facto\" ban on Allen. Routines included sketches showing the Pope (played by Allen) and his cardinals doing a striptease to music (\"The Stripper\") on the steps of St Peter's, aggressive priests beating their parishioners and other priests, priests who spoke like Daleks through electronic confessionals, and an extremely excitable Pope who spoke in a Chico Marx style accent as he ordered Allen to \"getta your bum outta Roma!\" In 1979 he played a troubled property man suffering a mid-life crisis in Alan Bennett's television play \"One Fine Day\". New seasons of the comedy series, now titled \"Dave Allen\", were broadcast from 1981 until 1990.\n\nHis final series for the BBC in 1990 caused controversy with a joke:\n\nThis prompted MP Robert Hayward to ask a parliamentary question about \"offensive language\" in broadcasting. In 1993 Allen returned to ITV, where he starred in the \"Dave Allen Show\", which was his final regular television series.\n\nBy the late 1990s Allen was living quietly in semi-retirement at home in Holland Park, west London. A keen amateur artist, he continued to exhibit his paintings. He had given up cigarettes in the 1980s, having smoked regularly during earlier television appearances. A comedy skit in 1994 talked not only about quitting smoking but hating the smell of smoke. The 90s saw him make occasional chat show appearances and discuss his career in the six-part \"The Unique Dave Allen\" (BBC, 1998), in between clips from his past BBC series.\n\nAs he grew older, he brought a rueful awareness of aging to his material, with reflections on the antics of teenagers and the sagging skin and sprouting facial hair of age. He was presented with a lifetime achievement award at the British Comedy Awards in 1996.\n\nAllen's act was typified by a relaxed, rueful and intimate style. He sat on a high bar stool facing his audience, smoking and occasionally sipping from a glass of what he always allowed people to assume was whiskey but in fact was merely ginger ale with ice. He was a sober-minded man, and although he sometimes appeared crotchety and irritable on stage he always gave off an air of charm and serene melancholy, both in his act and in real life. Each day he pored over newspapers, scribbling notes and ideas for his routines. Along with his seated stand-up routines his television shows were interspersed with filmed sketch comedy.\n\nHe was a religious sceptic (according to Allen, \"what you might call a practising atheist\", and often joked, \"I'm an atheist, thank God\") as a result of his deeply held objections to the rigidity of his strict Catholic schooling. Consequently religion became an important subject for his humour, especially the Roman Catholic Church and the Church of England, generally mocking church customs and rituals rather than beliefs. In 1998 he explained:\nThe hierarchy of everything in my life has always bothered me. I'm bothered by power. People, whoever they might be, whether it's the government, or the policeman in the uniform, or the man on the door—they still irk me a bit. From school, from the first nun that belted me—people used to think of the nice sweet little ladies—they used to knock the fuck out of you, in the most cruel way that they could. They'd find bits of your body that were vulnerable to intense pain—grabbing you by the ear, or by the nose, and lift you, and say 'Don't cry!' It's very hard not to cry. I mean, not from emotion, but pain. The priests were the same. And I sit and watch politicians with great cynicism, total cynicism.\nAt the end of his act Allen always raised his glass and quietly toasted his audience with the words \"Goodnight, thank you, and may your God go with you.\"\n\nHighly regarded in Britain, Allen's comic technique and style had a lasting influence on many young British comedians. His targets were often figures of authority, his style was observational rather than gag-driven, and his language frequently ripe; as such he was a progenitor for the \"alternative\" comedians of the 1980s. In his native Ireland, he always remained somewhat controversial. His mocking of the Catholic Church made him unpopular amongst some Irish Catholics, while his mocking of the Ulster Protestant leader Ian Paisley made him unpopular amongst many Protestants in Northern Ireland. \n\nIn a 2017 interview with Howard Stern, Adam Sandler attributed Dave Allen as one of his first comedic influences when he saw his act at the Nevele hotel at the age of 10.\n\nIn 1964 Allen married actress Judith Stott, whom he had met in Australia. The marriage ended in divorce in 1983. Their son, Edward James Tynan O'Mahony (professionally Ed Allen), is also a comedian.\n\nAllen's hobbies included painting, which he became increasingly enthusiastic about in his later years. His first exhibition, \"Private Views\", was held in Edinburgh in 2001. \n\nHe died peacefully in his sleep as a result of Sudden arrhythmic death syndrome at his home in Kensington, London, on 10 March 2005 at the age of 68. He was survived by Karin Tynan O'Mahony (née Stark), his wife of 18 months who had been his partner since 1986, and his three children from his first marriage: his children Edward and Jane, and stepson Jonathan, a son of his first wife. Three weeks after Allen's death Karin gave birth to their son, Cullen.\n\nA dramatisation of Allen's life and career, entitled \"Dave Allen At Peace\", was shown on RTÉ One and BBC Two in 2018, with Aidan Gillen portraying the comedian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27960941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27960941", "title": "De-Mail", "text": "De-Mail\n\nDe-Mail is a German E-Government communications service that makes it possible to exchange legal electronic documents between citizens, agencies, and businesses over the Internet. The project called Bürgerportal is realized by the German government in cooperation with private business partners in an effort to reduce communication costs of administration and companies.\n\nThe project was announced in 2008 and has been accepted by Bundestag and Bundesrat in early 2011. The De-Mail law (which serves as the legal basis for the service) went into effect on May 2, 2011.\n\nWith the introduction of De-Mail the German legislation implements the EU Directive on services in the internal market which demands that authorities accept legally binding electronic communications by the end of 2009.\n\nThe government specifies legal and technical requirements for the services, but does not provide the services. The services are provided by private companies which are allowed to provide De-Mail services after an official certification process.\n\nBesides email communication, other services are specified that support the communication process.\n\n\nUsage should be voluntary for all users, and should only be an additional option to postal mail.\n\nSeveral aspects of the law have sparked criticism of the system.\n\n\nThe following companies are currently accredited as De-Mail providers\nIn the process of accreditation are:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43076341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43076341", "title": "Dictionary of Art Historians", "text": "Dictionary of Art Historians\n\nThe Dictionary of Art Historians (DAH) is an online encyclopedia of topics relating to art historians, art critics and their dictionaries. The mission of the project is to provide free, reliable, English-language information on published art historians.\n\nThe DAH was started in 1986 as a notecard project indexing art historians by the editors Lee R. Sorensen and Monique Daniels. In 2002 the project was migrated to the internet and in 2010 the project was adopted by the art history department of Duke University. In 2017, the project was adopted by the Wired! Lab at Duke University and a new version of the site was launched in 2018. The project enjoys collaboration with the Journal of Art Historiography, which started in 2010.\n\nStarting as a database of art historians mentioned in major art historiographies, the site has grown through the comments and contributions of various authors specializing in national fields of art history.\n"}
{"id": "38062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38062", "title": "Die Entführung aus dem Serail", "text": "Die Entführung aus dem Serail\n\nThe company that first sponsored the opera was the \"Nationalsingspiel\" (\"national Singspiel\"), a pet project (1778–1783) of the Austrian emperor Joseph II. The Emperor had set up the company to perform works in the German language (as opposed to the Italian opera style widely popular in Vienna). This project was ultimately given up as a failure, but along the way it produced a number of successes, mostly a series of translated works. Mozart's opera emerged as its outstanding original success.\n\nThe inspector of the \"Nationalsingspiel\" was Gottlieb Stephanie. When the 25-year-old Mozart arrived in Vienna in 1781, seeking professional opportunity, one of the first tasks to which he addressed himself was to become acquainted with Stephanie and lobby him for an opera commission. To this end, he brought a copy of his earlier opera \"Zaide\" and showed it to Stephanie, who was duly impressed. Mozart also made a strong impression on the manager of the theater, Count Franz Xaver Orsini-Rosenberg, when in the home of Mozart's friend and patroness Maria Wilhelmine Thun the Count heard him play excerpts from his opera \"Idomeneo\", premiered with great success the previous year in Munich. With this backing, it was agreed that Stephanie would find appropriate material and prepare a libretto for Mozart. Stephanie complied by preparing an altered version of an earlier work \"Belmont und Constanze, oder Die Entführung aus dem Serail\" without attributing or seeking permission from its original author Christoph Friedrich Bretzner. Bretzner later complained loudly and publicly about the theft.\n\nMozart received the libretto from Stephanie on 29 July 1781. He had few opportunities to compose professionally during the summer and he set to work on the libretto at a very rapid pace, finishing three major numbers in just two days. A letter to his father Leopold indicates he was very excited about the prospect of having his opera performed in Vienna, and worked enthusiastically on his project.\n\nAt first Mozart thought he needed to finish his opera in only two months, because tentative plans were made to perform it at the September visit of the Russian Grand Duke Paul (son of Catherine the Great and heir to the Russian throne). However, it was ultimately decided to perform operas by Gluck instead, giving Mozart more time.\n\nIt was around this time that Mozart articulated his views about the role of the composer and the librettist in the preparation of an opera. He wrote to his father (13 October 1781):\nIt would seem that something along these lines did happen—that is, Mozart decided to play a major role in the shaping of the libretto, insisting that Stephanie make changes for dramatic and musical effect. On 26 September Mozart wrote:\nMozart was evidently quite pleased to have in Stephanie a librettist who would listen to him. The September 26 letter also says:\nWith the delays for rewriting, the composition took several more months. The premiere took place on 16 July 1782, at the Burgtheater in Vienna.\n\n\"Die Entführung aus dem Serail\" is in the genre of \"Singspiel\", thus the music lacks recitatives and consists entirely of set numbers. As Hughes notes, the action is mostly carried forward by the spoken dialogue, so the libretto gave Mozart little opportunity to display an achievement for which his later operas are celebrated, namely the construction of scenes in which the plot is both reflected in and driven forward by the music.\n\n\"Die Entführung\" is lighthearted and frequently comic, with little of the deep character exploration or darker feelings found in Mozart's later operas. The opera was inspired by a contemporary interest in the exotic culture of the Ottoman Empire, a nation which had only recently ceased to be a military threat to Austria. Mozart's opera includes a Westernized version of Turkish music, based very loosely on the Turkish Janissary band music.\n\nCertain aspects of the opera conform to an eighteenth-century European view of orientalism. The Pasha's titular harem, for example, reprised themes of sexual libertinage. And the comically sinister overseer, Osmin, is a send-up of earlier stereotypes of Turkish despotism. However, the opera also defies the stereotype of despotic Turkish culture, since its climax entails a selfless act of forgiveness on the part of the Pasha.\n\nThe music includes some of the composer's most spectacular and difficult arias. Osmin's act 3 aria \"O, wie will ich triumphieren\" includes characteristic 18th century coloratura passage work, and twice goes down to a low D (D), one of the lowest notes demanded of any voice in opera. Perhaps the most famous aria in the opera is the long and elaborate \"Martern aller Arten\" (\"Tortures of all kinds\") for Konstanze, an outstanding challenge for sopranos. Konstanze sings in a kind of sinfonia concertante with four solo players from the orchestra; the strikingly long orchestral introduction, without stage action, also poses problems for stage directors.\n\nThe virtuosity of these roles is perhaps attributable to the fact that when he took up the task of composing the opera, Mozart already knew the outstanding reputations of the singers for whom he was writing, and he tailored the arias to their strengths. The first Osmin was Ludwig Fischer, a bass noted for his wide range and skill in leaping over large intervals with ease. Similarly, Mozart wrote of the first Konstanze, Caterina Cavalieri, \"I have sacrificed Konstanze's aria a little to the flexible throat of Mlle. Cavalieri.\"\n\n The opera was a huge success. The first two performances brought in the large sum of 1200 florins, three times what Mozart's salary had been for his old job in Salzburg. The work was repeatedly performed in Vienna during Mozart's lifetime, and throughout German-speaking Europe. In 1787, Goethe wrote (concerning his own efforts as a librettist):\nAlthough the opera greatly raised Mozart's standing with the public as a composer, it did not make him rich: he was paid a flat fee of 100 Imperial ducats (about 450 florins) for his work, and made no profits from the many subsequent performances.\n\nThe opera reached Paris in November 1801, when Frédéric Blasius conducted Ellmenreich's company in performances at the Théâtre de la Gaîté.\n\nThis opera is firmly ensconced in the repertoire today. \n\nThe complexity of Mozart's work noted by Goethe also plays a role in a well-known tale about the opera which appeared in the early (1798) biography of Mozart by Franz Xaver Niemetschek. In the version of the anecdote printed in \"Bartlett's Book of Anecdotes\", a reference work, the story is told like this:\n\nThe authenticity of this story is not accepted by all scholars. Moreover, the version given by the Bartlett reference (and many other places) includes a translation of the original German that is dubious. The original reads as follows:\n\n\"Too many notes\" is not a plausible translation of the German phrase \"gewaltig viel Noten\". Mautner (1956:33), translating Niemetschek, renders this as \"an extraordinary number of notes\", while Branscombe (2006) translates it simply as \"very many notes\". The anecdote, which is often repeated, is considered by some scholars to unfairly give the Emperor a bad reputation concerning both his own musical abilities and his appreciation and support of Mozart.\n\nThe singers perform with a Classical-era orchestra: pairs of flutes (2nd doubling piccolo), oboes, clarinets, bassoons, horns, trumpets, a set of two timpani, and strings. They are augmented with the instruments needed for \"Turkish\" music: bass drum, cymbals, triangle, and piccolo. The aria, \"\", is augmented by a basset horn.\n\nThe orchestra for the premiere included a number of eminent musicians of the day: first cellist Joseph Franz Weigl, first oboist Josef Triebensee, second horn Joseph Leutgeb, and the clarinettist brothers Anton and Johann Stadler. In the first violin section was Franz de Paula Hofer, who later became Mozart's brother-in-law. The four musicians who played the \"Turkish\" instruments remain anonymous, though it is known that they were recruited for this purpose by one Franz Tyron, Kapellmeister of the Austrian Second Field Artillery Regiment.\n\nAfter a lively overture, Belmonte enters, looking for his betrothed, Konstanze, who with her English servant Blonde has fallen into the hands of pirates and been sold to Pasha Selim (Aria: \"Hier soll ich dich denn sehen\" – \"Here surely I must find her\"). Osmin, the Pasha's bad-tempered servant, comes to pluck figs in the garden and contemptuously ignores Belmonte's questions (Aria: \"Wer ein Liebchen hat gefunden\" – \"You may think, you've found a maiden\"). Belmonte tries to obtain news of his servant, Pedrillo, who has been captured with the women and is serving as a servant in the Pasha's palace. Osmin replies with insults and abuse (Duet: \"Verwünscht seist du samt deinem Liede!\" – \"The devil take you and your song, sir\"). Belmonte leaves in disgust. Pedrillo enters and Osmin rages at him, vowing to get him tortured and killed in many different ways (Aria: \"Solche hergelaufne Laffen\" – \"These young men who go a-spying\"). Osmin leaves and Belmonte enters and happily reunites with Pedrillo. Together they resolve to rescue Konstanze and Blonde, who is Pedrillo's fiancée (Aria: \"Konstanze, Konstanze, dich wiederzusehen … O wie ängstlich\" – \"Konstanze, Konstanze, to see thee again … Oh what trembling\").\n\nAccompanied by a chorus of Janissaries (\"Singt dem großen Bassa Lieder\" – \"Sing to the mighty Pasha Selim\"), Pasha Selim appears with Konstanze, for whose love he strives in vain (Aria of Konstanze: \"Ach ich liebte\" – \"How I loved him\"). Pedrillo tricks the Pasha into hiring Belmonte as an architect. When Belmonte and Pedrillo try to enter the palace, Osmin bars their way, but they hurry past him anyway (Terzett: \"Marsch! Marsch! Marsch! Trollt euch fort!\" – \"March! March! March! Clear off!\").\n\nThe Pasha has given Blonde to Osmin, to be his slave; however, she defiantly rebuffs her new master's rough lovemaking attempts (Aria: \"Durch Zärtlichkeit und Schmeicheln\" – \"With smiles and kind caresses\"), threatens to scratch out his eyes, and chases him out of the room (Duet: \"Ich gehe, doch rate ich dir\" – \"I'm going, but mark what I say\"). Konstanze enters and greets Blonde in distress (Aria: \"Welcher Wechsel herrscht in meiner Seele … Traurigkeit ward mir zum Lose\" – \"Oh what sorrow overwhelms my spirit … Endless grief tortures my spirit\"). The Pasha enters, demands her love, and threatens to use force, but she resolutely rejects him. (Aria: \"Martern aller Arten\" – \"Tortures unrelenting\") Left alone, he muses on her determination to remain chaste, which increases his desire for her.\n\nPedrillo informs Blonde that Belmonte has come and is planning to rescue them. Blonde is filled with joy. (Aria: \"Welche Wonne, welche Lust\" – \"Oh, the happy, happy day\"). After singing a short ditty to boost his courage (Aria: \"Frisch zum Kampfe\" – \"Now Pedrillo, now for battle!\"), Pedrillo invites Osmin to drink (Duet: \"Vivat Bacchus! Bacchus lebe!\" – \"Here's to Bacchus, long live Bacchus\"). Despite his religious prohibition against alcoholic beverages, Osmin drinks heavily and falls asleep. Konstanze joins Belmonte who declares his love (Aria: \"Wenn der Freude Tränen fließen\" – \"When tears of joy flow\"). The two couples reunite (Quartet, Belmonte, Konstanze, Pedrillo, Blonde: \"Ach Belmonte! Ach, mein Leben\" – \"Ah, Belmonte, ah my dear one!\"). After their initial expressions of love and joy, Belmonte and Pedrillo both question anxiously whether their respective fiancees have remained faithful during their forced separation; to their delight the women respond with indignation and dismay, and Blonde slaps Pedrillo's face. The two men apologize for their failure of confidence; the women forgive them for the offensive questions.\n\nBelmonte and Pedrillo come to the garden with ladders (Aria, Belmonte: \"Ich baue ganz auf deine Stärke\" – \"Love, only love, can now direct me\"). Pedrillo gets the attention of the women by singing a ballad about a rescue similar to the one he is planning (Romanze, Pedrillo: \"In Mohrenland gefangen war\" – \"In Moorish lands a maiden fair\"). However, Osmin enters, sees the ladders, and rouses the castle. Osmin exults in the prospect of seeing them all hanged (Aria: \"O, wie will ich triumphieren\" – \"My triumphant hour's approaching\"). Belmonte pleads for their lives and tells Pasha Selim that his father is a Spanish Grandee and Governor of Oran, named Lostados, and will pay a generous ransom. Unfortunately, Pasha Selim and Lostados are long-standing enemies. The Pasha rejoices in the opportunity to subject his enemy's son to a horrible death. He leaves Belmonte and Konstanze to bid each other a last farewell; they lovingly assure each other that being tortured to death will be a pleasure, so long as they get tortured to death together (Duet: \"Welch ein Geschick! O Qual der Seele... Weh, du soltest für mich sterben\" – \"What dreadful fate conspires against us... Woe, you will die because of me\"). However, the Pasha decides that he can make a better point against Lostados by showing mercy and releasing Belmonte and his friends. All are set at liberty – much to the dismay of Osmin, who would prefer to see them all brutally executed (Finale: \"Nie werd' ich deine Huld verkennen\" – \"Your noble mercy passes measure\").\n\nThe Finnish composer Aulis Sallinen wrote an opera called \"The Palace\" (first performed 1995); it contains characters whose names are adapted from \"Abduction\" and loosely uses elements of the plot of Mozart's opera as the starting point of a satirical fantasy.\n\nMusic professor, composer, and humorist Peter Schickele claims to have \"discovered\" P. D. Q. Bach's \"The Abduction of Figaro\", a pastiche of the \"Entführung\" and Mozart's \"The Marriage of Figaro\".\n\nNotes\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "364904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=364904", "title": "Die Stem van Suid-Afrika", "text": "Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\n\n\"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\" (, ), also known as simply \"Die Stem\" or \"The Call of South Africa\" is a former national anthem of South Africa, used during much of the 20th century. It was the sole national anthem from 1957 to 1994, and shared co-national anthem status with \"God Save the King\" from 1938 to 1957 and with \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" from 1994 to 1997, when a new hybrid song incorporating elements of both songs was adopted as the country's new national anthem, which is still in use today.\n\nIn May 1918, C.J. Langenhoven wrote an Afrikaans poem called \"Die Stem\", for which music was composed by the Reverend in 1921. It was widely used by the South African Broadcasting Corporation in the 1920s, which played it at the close of daily broadcasts, along with \"God Save The King\". It was recorded for the first time in 1926 when its first and third verses were performed by Betty Steyn in England for the Zonophone record label; it was sung publicly for the first time on 31 May 1928. In 1938, South Africa proclaimed it to be one of the two co-national anthems of the country, along with \"God Save the King\".\n\nIt was sung in English as well as Afrikaans from 1952, with both versions having official status, while \"God Save the Queen\" did not cease to be a co-national anthem until May 1957, when it was dropped from that role. However, it remained the country's royal anthem until 1961, as it was a Commonwealth realm until that point. The poem originally had only three verses, but the government asked the author to add a fourth verse with a religious theme.\n\nIt is lugubrious in tone, addressing throughout of commitment to the \"Vaderland\" () and to God. However, it was generally disliked by black South Africans, who saw it as triumphalist and strongly associated it with the apartheid regime where one verse shows dedication to Afrikaners and another to the Voortrekkers' \"Great Trek\". P. W. Botha, who was the state president of South Africa during the 1980s, was fond of the song and made his entourage sing it when they visited Switzerland during his presidency.\n\nAs the dismantling of apartheid began in the early 1990s, South African teams were readmitted to international sporting events, which presented a problem as to the choice of national identity South Africa had to present. Agreements were made with the African National Congress (ANC) that \"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\" would not be sung at rugby matches, due to its connection to the apartheid system and minority rule, thus leading the ANC and other such groups at the time to view the song as offensive. However, at a rugby union test match against New Zealand in 1992, the crowd spontaneously sang \"Die Stem\" during a moment of silence for victims of political violence in South Africa, and although it was ostensibly agreed upon beforehand that it would not be played, an instrumental recording of \"Die Stem\" was played over the stadium's PA system's loudspeakers after the New Zealand national anthem was performed, and spectators sang along, sparking controversy afterwards. At the 1992 Summer Olympics in Barcelona that year, Schiller's \"Ode to Joy\", as set to Beethoven's music, was used instead, along with a neutral Olympic-style flag.\n\n\"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\"'s future seemed in doubt as the country prepared to transition to majority rule. In 1993, a commission sought out a new national anthem for South Africa, with 119 entries being suggested, but none were chosen. Instead, it was decided to retain \"Die Stem\"'s official status after the advent of full multi-racial democracy which followed the 1994 general election. When the old South African flag was lowered for the last time at the parliament building in Cape Town, \"Die Stem\" was performed in Afrikaans and then in English as the new South African flag was raised. After 1994, it shared equal status with \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\", which had long been a traditional hymn used by the ANC. In 1995, \"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\" was sung by a black choir at the Rugby World Cup final match, as it had been done at the 1994 South African presidential inauguration in Pretoria, first in Afrikaans and then in English.\n\nThe practice of singing two different national anthems had been a cumbersome arrangement during the transition to post-apartheid South Africa. On most occasions, it was usually the first verse of \"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\" that was sung at ceremonies, in both official languages prior to 1994, with some English medium schools in what was then Natal Province singing the first verse in Afrikaans and the second in English. During this period of two national anthems, the custom was to play both \"Die Stem\" and \"Nkosi Sikelel' iAfrika\" during occasions that required the playing of a national anthem. However, this proved cumbersome as performing the dual national anthems took as much as five minutes to conclude. In 1997, following the adoption of a new national constitution, a new composite national anthem was introduced, which combined part of \"Nkosi Sikelel 'iAfrika\" and part of \"Die Stem van Suid-Afrika\" into a single composition in order to form a new hybrid song.\n\nSince the end of apartheid and the adoption of a new national anthem in the 1990s, the status of \"Die Stem\" has become somewhat controversial in contemporary South Africa, due to its connection with the apartheid regime and white minority rule. \n\nAlthough elements of it are used in the current South African national anthem, in recent years some South Africans have called for those segments to be removed due to their connection with apartheid, whereas others defend the inclusion of it as it was done for post-apartheid re-conciliatory reasons. When \"Die Stem\" was mistakenly played by event organisers in place of the current South African national anthem during a UK-hosted women's field hockey match in 2012, it sparked outrage and confusion among the South African staff members and players present.\n\nThe Afrikaans version remains popular with Afrikaner nationalists and far-right organisations such as the Afrikaner Weerstandsbeweging, where it is sometimes performed at the funerals of such groups' members or at demonstrations by them. \"Die Stem\" was also the name of a far-right periodical during the apartheid era.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1867849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1867849", "title": "Doily", "text": "Doily\n\nA doily (also doiley, doilie, doyly, doyley) is an ornamental mat, typically made of paper or fabric, and variously used for protecting surfaces or binding flowers, in food service presentation, or as a head covering or clothing ornamentation. It is characterized by openwork, which allows the surface of the underlying object to show through.\n\nDoiley was a 17th-century London draper, who made popular \"a woolen stuff, 'at once cheap and genteel,' introduced for summer wear in the latter part of the 17th c.\" At the time, it was used as an adjective, as in \"doily stuffs\" or \"doily suit.\" Later, usage shifted to refer to \"a small ornamental napkin used at dessert,\" known as a \"doily-napkin.\"\n\nIn addition to their decorative function doilies have the practical role of protecting fine-wood furniture from the scratches caused by crockery or decorative objects, or from spilled tea when used on tea trays or with cups and saucers. When used to protect the backs and arms of chairs, they are serving as antimacassars.\n\nDoilies are traditionally used to bind the stems in posies (formal flower arrangements called tussie-mussies in the Victorian Era).\n\nDoilies figure prominently in the custom of finger bowls, once common in formal, multi-course dinners. The linen doily (never paper) separates the dessert plate from the finger bowl. The custom requires that both doily and finger bowl are removed to the upper left of the place setting before briefly dipping fingertips into the water and drying them on the napkin. Failing to move both together is a faux pas. \nDisposable paper doilies \"were designed as a cheaper but respectable alternative to crocheted linen doilies\" and are commonly used to decorate plates, placed under the food for ornamentation. In the UK, \"sales rocketed in the 1950s as a reaction to post-war austerity and the doily quickly became a symbol of upward social mobility.\" However, the UK is currently experiencing a decline, prompting a \"Save our Doilies\" campaign. Once \"a symbol of suburban gentility\" they are now perceived as outdated.\n\nThey are crocheted, tatted or knitted out of cotton or linen thread. Many patterns for crocheting or knitting doilies were published by thread manufacturers in the first part of the 20th century. The designers were often anonymous. The designs could be circular or oval starting from the center and working outward, reminiscent of the Polar coordinates system. Doilies, as well as other household items, may be made by crocheting rows on a grid pattern using a technique called filet crochet, similar to points on the Cartesian coordinate system.\n\nContemporary designers continue to make patterns for modern hand craft enthusiasts. Although it may to some extent interfere with the original use, some doilies involve embroidery or have raised designs (rose petals, popcorn, or ruffles) rather than being flat.\n\n"}
{"id": "16918952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16918952", "title": "Egalitarian dialogue", "text": "Egalitarian dialogue\n\nEgalitarian dialogue is a dialogue in which contributions are considered according to the validity of their reasoning, instead of according to the status or position of power of those who make them. Although previously used widely in the social sciences and in reference to the Bakhtinian philosophy of dialogue, it was first systematically applied to dialogical education by Ramón Flecha in his 2000 work \"Sharing Words. Theory and Practice of Dialogic Learning\".\n\nEgalitarian dialogue is one of the seven principles of dialogic learning (Flecha, 2000), the others being cultural intelligence, equality of differences, creation of meaning, instrumental dimension, solidarity, and transformation. The principle of egalitarian dialogue is deeply interrelated with the other principles of dialogic learning. By recognizing all people's cultural intelligence and respecting differences from an egalitarian standpoint, egalitarian dialogue encourages individuals to create meaning, develop solidarity among different people, and create new instrumental dimensions. This interdependence among the principles of dialogic learning favors constant social transformation.\n\nThe recognition and respect of different types of knowledge raises the awareness that each person has something to share, something different and equally important. Therefore, the wider the diversity of voices engaged in egalitarian dialogue, the better the knowledge that can be dialogically constructed. In this sense, dialogic learning is oriented towards equality of differences, stating that true equality includes the right to live in a different way (Flecha, 2000). This perspective, which Paulo Freire (1997) calls \"unity in diversity\", never defends diversity or difference without simultaneously proposing equality and fairness toward different individual and groups.\n\nEquality of differences is also enacted in the Learning Communities (Valls, 2000; Elboj et al., 2001). The Learning Communities are schools in Spain, Brazil and Chile that have undergone a process of educational and social transformation based on dialogic learning. In the learning communities, the equality of differences principle is shown, among other practices, in the interactive groups (Aubert et al., 2004), where students and adults who have different levels of instruction and are from different backgrounds, teach and learn from each other. Those interactions create Zone of Proximal Development (Vygotsky, 1978), this showing that meaning-making and learning do not depend solely on the intervention of professionals, but on all the knowledge brought by anyone related to the students (Flecha, 2000).\n\nHabermas (2004a, 2004b) has stressed the need to recover the lifeworld from its systemic colonization by the “steering media” of power, law and bureaucratization. The systemic decolonization is a way of reinventing democracy in public spaces and institutions and for recovering meaning. Habermas' concept of lifeworld refers to the everyday contexts where people relate to each other and create meaning and structures to organize themselves. In Habermas' view, and also from a dialogic learning perspective, subjects create meaning through intersubjectivity or the interaction among subjects engaged in egalitarian dialogue.\n\nAny person can engage in such meaning making dialogue because humans have \"epistemological curiosity\", which when expressed in egalitarian dialogue can criticize and end with what Freire (2001) called the \"bureaucratizing of the mind\", an invisible power of alienating domestication. Such debureaucratization process can be seen in Dialogic Musical Gatherings (CONFAPEA, 2005), where people develop their epistemological curiosity listening to classical music and later engaging in a dialogue about the instruments that were playing, about the composer, his life and his position in a historical context, the style of the music listened to and its relationship with the cultural claims of each participant belonging to the Music Gathering, etc. In this process, meaning is created and recovered because music escapes the system and goes back to people's lifeworld tearing down the walls of cultural elitism.\n\nThe Instrumental Dimension of learning, as a principle of dialogic learning, should not be confused with instrumentality or the technocratic colonization of learning. In dialogic learning, as in Habermas (1984), the instrumental and communicative rationality are not opposed to each other, but instrumental learning becomes more intense and profound when situated in an adequate dialogical framework. The ability to select and process information is the cognitive tool that best enables one to function confidently in today's society. Dialogue and reflection encourage the development of that ability. Relationships with other people put not only diverse information but also its selection and processing at our disposal(Flecha, 2000, p. 16). In addition, \"when dialogue is egalitarian, it encourages intense reflection, since people need to understand other positions and express their own\" (Flecha, 2000, p. 16). In this sense, in egalitarian dialogue, procedures and ends are dialogically agreed. Those work for purposes of understanding, and do not let interactants hide themselves behind means that obscure exclusionary interests.\n\nIn education without dialogue, every single item becomes a target for power claims, even methods and instruments for learning, and therefore, the bureaucratization of those elements is inevitable. For this reason, the instrumental dimension of dialogic learning is never purely instrumental. It is also ethical, respectful, characterized by a sense of solidarity that contributes to break up the existing educational structure.\n\nSolidarity feeds dialogue, but at the same time, egalitarian dialogue, as essential communication, must underlie any act of solidarity (Freire, 1970). That is why, \"egalitarian educational practices must be grounded in conceptions of solidarity\" (Flecha, 2000, p. 20).\n\nThe emphasis of dialogic learning on solidarity as the wheel that drives this perspective on education can be evidenced in the Learning Communities. For instance, in the School for Adults La Verneda-Sant Martí (Sánchez, 1999; Flecha, 2000) all the activities are open to anyone from the community and the city, and are also deeply integrated in the neighborhood. Because of discussing books from the classic literature through dialogic learning, the dialogic literary gatherings help improve the lives of the participants in the gathering but also of other people in the school and the neighborhood, when for example some participants in the gathering take part of different committees of the school that plan actions of social transformation in the neighborhood, the city and beyond.\n\nIn this sense, solidarity is not only understood as an act for identifying and denouncing problems, but also as means to solve them. Solidarity does not only imply denouncing the process of dehumanization, but also announcing the dream of a new society (Freire, 2001). In this regard, solidarity goes beyond rebellious attitudes that do not propose an alternative, and reaches a more radically critical and dialogical position that implies the transformation of oneself, institutions, and the world.\n\n"}
{"id": "663695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663695", "title": "Engineered language", "text": "Engineered language\n\nEngineered languages (often abbreviated to engelangs, or, less commonly, engilangs) are constructed languages devised to test or prove some hypotheses about how languages work or might work. There are at least three subcategories, philosophical languages (or ideal languages), logical languages (sometimes abbreviated as \"loglangs\"), and experimental languages. Raymond Brown describes engineered languages as \"languages that are designed to specified \"objective\" criteria, and modeled to meet those criteria\".\n\nSome engineered languages have been considered candidate global auxiliary languages, and some languages intended as international auxiliary languages have certain \"engineered\" aspects (in which they are more regular and systematic than their natural language sources).\n\nLogical languages are meant to allow (or enforce) unambiguous statements. They are typically based on predicate logic but can also be based on any system of formal logic. The two best-known logical languages are the predicate languages Loglan and its successor Lojban. They both aim to eliminate syntactical ambiguity and reduce semantic ambiguity to a minimum. In particular, the grammar of Lojban is carefully engineered to express such predicate logic in an unambiguous manner.\n\nPhilosophical languages are designed to reflect some aspect of philosophy, particularly with respect to the nature or potential of any given language. John Wilkins' Real Character and Edward Powell Foster's Ro constructed their words using a taxonomic tree. Vocabularies of oligosynthetic languages, for example Ygyde, are made of compound words, which are coined from a small (theoretically minimal) set of morphemes. Suzette Haden Elgin's Láadan is designed to lexicalize and grammaticalize the concepts and distinctions important to women, based on muted group theory. Sonja Elen Kisa's Toki Pona is based on minimalistic simplicity, incorporating elements of Taoism.\n\nAn experimental language is a constructed language designed for the purpose of exploring some element in the theory of linguistics. Most such languages are concerned with the relation between language and thought; however, languages have been constructed to explore other aspects of language as well. In science fiction, much work has been done on the assumption popularly known as the Sapir–Whorf hypothesis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53901140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53901140", "title": "English for Academic Purposes (EAP)", "text": "English for Academic Purposes (EAP)\n\nEnglish for academic purpose (EAP) is an approach to teaching English that aims at training students, usually in a higher education setting, to use the language appropriately for study. It is a common form of 'English for specific purposes' (ESP). EAP helps students improve their language skills in listening, speaking, reading, grammar, and vocabulary development. In addition, students are introduced to a new way of teaching, test taking, note taking, academic vocabulary usage, research and library skills. EAP has been shown to effectively prepare students in terms of language for undergraduate programs in college and university level.\n\nEnglish for academic purposes (EAP) courses help students prepare for higher education in college/university level. There are two main types of EAP: pre-sessional courses and in-sessional courses. There are also a number of other approaches where EAP is delivered, including modular university entrance pathways.\n\nDuring this course, students are given resources to improve their skills in formal and informal communication, new vocabulary, writing skills, reading skills, critical thinking, oral presentation skills, and other areas. In addition, EAP helps international students, second-language influenced local students, certain students with gaps in their track record and some return-to-study mature-age students, to get acquainted with the new learning environment and educational system.\n\nThe writing class gives students as much time as they can to practice their writing skills. Starting with writing a paragraph, students have to be acquainted with completing the full essay after several weeks. Later, students are required to write several essays about some topics which they can choose themselves. While practicing their writing, students have the chance to develop their language use based on their current ability. Researching and collecting information skills are practiced while writing academic essays, which is very important for their college level. Teachers instruct students how to choose reliable sources for the article and how to quote them. Students may have feedback from their teachers after each essay for the improvement of future essays. Moreover, students have opportunities to talk with their teachers about problems that they had on their essays.\n\nUnlike normal conversation, the program is designed to help students improve their speaking ability in an educational setting to prepare for university. Specifically, interoperability in oral communication and transactional capabilities are focused and improved. For example, students will be given some specific topics and must discuss them with other students and the professor throughout class. Students will be familiar with face-to-face and eye contact while practicing. In addition, the ability to improvise in some cases such as forgetting vocabulary, solving when others speak too fast, and especially learning how to use spoken communication are also enhanced through these classes.\n\nSimilar to academic speaking classes, there are two processes that students need to be familiar with are interactive listening and transactional listening. Interactive listening helps students in daily conversation, such as how to start and give response during oral communicating while transactional listen is more important for students in education. Specifically, skills such as interference, readiness, and eagerness to learn are necessary for students in higher education. During class, students must listen to the conversation or short lectures and take notes or answer the questions based on the information in the video. There is the combination between listening and speaking skills while students have to listen to one specific topic and discuss with their classmates about that.\n\nThrough reading, students are provided with sufficient knowledge to be ready for higher education. Specifically, in order to fully understand a reading, it requires students not only to have enough vocabulary but also a partial knowledge of the topic. Writing and reading skills are also incorporated when students write a summary of the paragraph. Speaking and listening skills have a strong connection with the reading skills because students can practice those skills in reading section. For example, listening to the short conversation and discussing with other classmates about the article often applies while they are in the reading lecture. Other skills such as identifying the subject of the paragraph, citing references to the knowledge that students had, questioning and answering questions are also improved after the course.\n\nUnderpinning all the above and other study skills, the strongest driver in EAP is the practice of critical thinking, which is a predominant assessment criteria across all higher education outcomes, particularly so in postgraduate education. Many teachers of EAP use critical thinking as the basis for launching into any or all of the above skills. Critical thinking includes embracing ambiguities, challenging assumptions, recognising rhetorical bias and paradigmatic perspectives, distinguishing normative from positive or descriptive writing, applying Socratic method to analysis, and looking for subtext. \n\nIn the former case, sometimes EAP courses may be intended to raise students' general English levels so that they can enter university. In the UK, this often means endeavouring to help students get a score of 6 or above in the IELTS examination. In the US, this can mean helping students attain a score of 80 or greater on the TOEFL or more than 4 on the iTEP. Outside Anglophone countries, English-medium universities may have a preparatory school where students can spend a year or two working on their English and academic skills before starting degree courses.\n\nThe role of teachers in education, especially in the EAP is undeniable. Teachers have the duty to provide student with assessments that encourage, correct, and improve students' proficiency. This can be expressed in the students’ works, tests, or oral communication. A meeting in the teacher office can be made if necessary. The teacher also directly affects the student's ability to learn. Designing lectures, topics, and instructions are some of the main things that need to be consulted and researched before being taught. Creating and maintaining a healthy learning environment is essential for students, and teachers are the one who take responsibility for this. The teacher also understands the learning ability of each individual in the class. Therefore, they are also the ones who give topics for articles or design tests for students.\n\nThe preparation for the teaching of EAP is known as Teaching English for Academic Purposes, or TEAP. Reputable TEAP courses in the UK are aligned with developing participants' competencies to fit the BALEAP competence framework, designed by the British Association of Lecturers in English for Academic Purposes (BALEAP). The most reputable and longstanding TEAP courses in the UK are delivered by Bristol University, SOAS University of London, the London School of Economics (LSE), University of Glasgow, University of Sheffield, University of Brighton, University of Leicester, University of Nottingham and Lancaster University, among others.\n\nWhile the origins of the English language development aspect in TEAP are presumed to derive through the practice as a subset of English for Specific Purposes (ESP), with such English language teaching (ELT) influences as the Communicative Approach to Language Acquisition, the Lexical Approach, audio-lingual techniques and even grammar translation, there are several other crucial and underestimated aspects. These include: traditional higher education study skills programmes such as WAC (Writing Across the Curriculum) in the USA and provisions driven by social constructionist perspectives; contrastive rhetoric; systemic functional linguistics and related genre-based education; lecturer expectations and higher education assessment frameworks as drivers in EAP design; and more recently, the idea of academic literacies, namely a recognition that EAP is not monolithic and homogeneous as it has increasingly diverse student identities and blurred first-second language boundaries; that academic practice is social and context dependent; that discourse communities that students enter vary widely; and that discipline-specific epistemology do equally so. Therefore, it is clear that EAP as a practice has origins far more broadly rooted in tertiary education preparation traditions and a future that has moved in quite a distinct direction from ELT practice.\n"}
{"id": "42219067", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42219067", "title": "Garment of Shadows", "text": "Garment of Shadows\n\nGarment of Shadows is a 2012 mystery novel by American author Laurie R. King. Twelfth in the Mary Russell series, the story features married detectives Mary Russell and Sherlock Holmes. The events of the novel follow that of \"Pirate King\" and feature their old friends, Ali and Mahmoud Hazr (\"O Jerusalem\" & \"Justice Hall\").\n\nAt the end of 1924, Mary Russell has just finished a stint with Fflytte Films in Morocco but she is not where she should be when her husband, Sherlock Holmes, goes to meet her in Fez. In fact, when she awakens in a strange room she does not know where or who she is, having taken a great blow to the head.\n\n"}
{"id": "2974535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2974535", "title": "Gates of Alexander", "text": "Gates of Alexander\n\nThe Gates of Alexander was a legendary barrier supposedly built by Alexander the Great in the Caucasus to keep the uncivilized barbarians of the north (typically associated with Gog and Magog) from invading the land to the south. The gates were a popular subject in medieval travel literature, starting with the \"Alexander Romance\" in a version from perhaps the 6th century.\n\nThe wall, also known as the Caspian Gates, has been identified with two locations: the Pass of Derbent, Russia or with the Pass of Dariel, west of the Caspian Sea. Tradition also connects it to the Great Wall of Gorgan (Red Snake) on its south-eastern shore.\n\nHistorically, these fortifications were part of the defence lines built by Sasanians of Persia. The Great Wall of Gorgan may have been built by the Parthians.\n\nThe name Caspian Gates originally applied to the narrow region at the southeast corner of the Caspian Sea, through which Alexander actually marched in the pursuit of Bessus, although he did not stop to fortify it. It was transferred to the passes through the Caucasus, on the other side of the Caspian, by the more fanciful historians of Alexander. \n\nJosephus, a Jewish historian in the 1st century, is known to have written of Alexander's gates, designed to be a barrier against the Scythians. According to this historian, the people whom the Greeks called Scythians were known (among the Jews) as Magogites, descendants of Magog in the Hebrew Bible. These references occur in two different works. \"The Jewish War\" states that the iron gates Alexander erected were controlled by the king of Hyrcania (on the south edge of the Caspian), and allowing passage of the gates to the Alans (whom Josephus considered a Scythic tribe) resulted in the sack of Media. Josephus's \"Antiquities of the Jews\" contains two relevant passages, one giving the ancestry of Scythians as descendants of Magog\nson of Japheth, and another that refers to the Caspian Gates being breached by Scythians allied to Tiberius during the Armenian War.\n\nThe Gates occur in later versions of the \"Alexander Romance\" of Pseudo-Callisthenes, in the interpolated chapter on the \"Unclean Nations\" (8th century). This version locates the gates between two mountains called the \"Breasts of the North\" (). The mountains are initially 18 feet apart and the pass is rather wide, but Alexander's prayers to God causes the mountains to draw nearer, thus narrowing the pass. There he builds the Caspian Gates out of bronze, coating it with fast-sticking oil. The gates enclosed twenty-two nations and their monarchs, including Goth and Magoth (Gog and Magog). The geographic location of these mountains is rather vague, described as a 50-day march away northwards after Alexander put to flight his Belsyrian enemies (the Bebrykes, of Bithynia in modern-day North Turkey).\n\nA somewhat similar story also appears in the Qur'an, Surat \"al-Kahf\" 83-98 with key differences. Rather than the builder being a conquering emperor like Alexander, the Qur'an describes a liberating hero predating Alexander, known as Dhul Qarnayn. Also the structure is a huge iron wall rather than a gate and its purpose is to defend people at the foot of two mountains from Gog and Magog. \n\nDuring the Middle Ages, the Gates of Alexander story was included in travel literature such as the \"Travels of Marco Polo\" and the \"Travels of Sir John Mandeville\". The identities of the nations trapped behind the wall are not always consistent, however; Mandeville claims Gog and Magog are really the Ten Lost Tribes of Israel, who will emerge from their prison during the End Times and unite with their fellow Jews to attack the Christians. Polo speaks of Alexander's Iron Gates, but says the Comanians are the ones trapped behind it. He does mention Gog and Magog, however, locating them north of Cathay. Some scholars have taken this as an oblique and confused reference to the Great Wall of China, which he does not mention otherwise. The Gates of Alexander may represent an attempt by Westerners to explain stories from China of a great king building a great wall. Knowledge of Chinese innovations such as the compass and south-pointing chariot is known to have been diffused (and confused) across Eurasian trade routes.\n\nThe medieval German legend of the Red Jews was partially based on stories of the Gates of Alexander. The legend disappeared before the 17th century.\n\nIt is not clear which precise location Josephus meant when he described the Caspian gates. It may have been the Gates of Derbent (lying due east, nearer to Persia), or it may have been the Darial Gorge, (lying west, bordering Iberia or Georgia proper. Both are situated in present-day Dagistan.\n\nHowever, neither these were within Hyrcania, but lay to the north and west of its boundaries. Another suggestion is some mountain pass in the Taurus-Zagros Mountains, somewhere near Rhaegae, Iran, in the heart of Hyrcania.\n\nThe Gates of Alexander are most commonly identified with the Caspian Gates of Derbent, whose thirty north-looking towers used to stretch for forty kilometers between the Caspian Sea and the Caucasus Mountains, effectively blocking the passage across the Caucasus.\n\nDerbent was built around the world's only surviving Sassanid Persian fortress, which served as a strategic location protecting the empire from attacks by the Gokturks. The historical Caspian Gates were not built until probably the reign of Khosrau I in the 6th century, long after Alexander's time, but they came to be credited to him in the passing centuries. The immense wall had a height of up to twenty meters and a thickness of about 10 feet (3 m) when it was in use.\n\nThe Pass of Dariel or Darial has also been known as the \"Gates of Alexander\" and is a strong candidate for the identity of the Caspian Gates.\nAn alternative theory links the Caspian Gates to the so-called \"Alexander's Wall\" (the Great Wall of Gorgan) on the south-eastern shore of the Caspian Sea, 180 km of which is still preserved today, albeit in a very poor state of repair.\n\nThe Great Wall of Gorgan was built during the Parthian dynasty simultaneously with the construction of the Great Wall of China and it was restored during the Sassanid era (3rd-7th centuries)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11022379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11022379", "title": "How Tasty Was My Little Frenchman", "text": "How Tasty Was My Little Frenchman\n\nHow Tasty Was My Little Frenchman () is a Brazilian black comedy directed by Nelson Pereira dos Santos released in 1971.\n\nAlmost all of the dialogue in the film was written in the Tupi language. The actors and actresses who portrayed the Tupinambas wore historically correct attire resulting in a considerable amount of historically correct nudity and semi-nudity in many scenes. \n\nThe location for the entire film was the Bay of Ilha Grande, which has 365 islands and whose shores comprise the Angra dos Reis and Parati municipalities in the state of Rio de Janeiro.\n\nIn 16th century Brazil rival French and Portuguese settlers are utilizing the indigenous people as allies in their struggle to establish control. The Tupinambás, who live in the Guanabara Bay area, are allied with the French, while the Tupiniquins are allied with the Portuguese. \n\nA Frenchman who has been captured by the Portuguese is then captured by the Tupinambás after they attack and kill a group of Portuguese. He tries to convince his captors by speaking in French (reciting the poem by Étienne Jodelle found in André Thévet's \"Singularities of France Antarctique\") but the Tupinambás don't believe that the Frenchman was a prisoner of the Portuguese they have killed, and the Chief thinks he is Portuguese because \"No Frenchman would shoot at the Tupinambá.\" The tribe's shaman predicted they would find a strong Portuguese man to cannibalize as revenge for the chief's brother being killed by a Portuguese musket ball. Now they have one.\n\nHowever, the Frenchman is allowed free run of the village area, is eventually provided with a \"wife,\" and adopts traditional Tupinambá attire in place of his Western clothes. \nAnother Frenchman comes to the village and tells the Tupinambás that their prisoner is indeed Portuguese—he then promises the outraged Frenchman that he will tell the Tupinambás the truth when the Frenchman finds a hidden treasure that another European has hidden in the area.\n\nThe relationship between the Frenchman and his Tupinambá \"wife\" remains enigmatic. It is unclear for most of the movie if she intends to save him from the group that wants to eat him, or if she has been assigned to win his trust and prevent him from escaping. \nAfter using cannon powder provided by the Frenchman to defeat the Tupiniquins in battle, the Tupinambás eat the Frenchman as celebration.\n\nIn the last seconds of his life the Frenchman refuses to play along with the ceremonial script that the Tupinambás expect him to follow and instead angrily (and loudly) tells the Tupinambás that his death will not revitalize them (as his death and the subsequent cannibal feast is intended to do) but rather will doom them all to extermination. \n\nThe movie ends with a postscript that reveals the Tupiniquim were later exterminated by their own allies, the Portuguese.\n\n\nThe film was selected as the Brazilian entry for the Best Foreign Language Film at the 45th Academy Awards, but was not accepted as a nominee.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "84632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=84632", "title": "Information Age", "text": "Information Age\n\nThe Information Age (also known as the Computer Age, Digital Age, or New Media Age) is a historic period in the 21st century characterized by the rapid shift from traditional industry that the Industrial Revolution brought through industrialization, to an economy based on information technology. The onset of the Information Age is associated with the Digital Revolution, just as the Industrial Revolution marked the onset of the Industrial Age. The definition of what digital means (or what information means) continues to change over time as new technologies, user devices, methods of interaction with other humans and devices enter the domain of research, development and market launch.\n\nDuring the Information Age, the phenomenon is that the digital industry creates a knowledge-based society surrounded by a high-tech global economy that spans over its influence on how the manufacturing and service sectors operate in an efficient and convenient way. In a commercialized society, the information industry is able to allow individuals to explore their personalized needs, therefore simplifying the procedure of making decisions for transactions and significantly lowering costs for both the producers and buyers. This is accepted overwhelmingly by participants throughout the entire economic activities for efficacy purposes, and new economic incentives would then be indigenously encouraged, such as the knowledge economy.\n\nThe Information Age formed by capitalizing on computer microminiaturization advances. This evolution of technology in daily life and social organization has led to the fact that the modernization of information and communication processes have become the driving force of social evolution.\n\nLibrary expansion was calculated in 1945 by Fremont Rider to double in capacity every 16 years, if sufficient space were made available. He advocated replacing bulky, decaying printed works with miniaturized microform analog photographs, which could be duplicated on-demand for library patrons or other institutions. He did not foresee the digital technology that would follow decades later to replace analog microform with digital imaging, storage, and transmission media. Automated, potentially lossless digital technologies allowed vast increases in the rapidity of information growth. Moore's law, which was formulated around 1965, calculated that the number of transistors in a dense integrated circuit doubles approximately every two years.\n\nThe proliferation of the smaller and less expensive personal computers and improvements in computing power by the early 1980s resulted in a sudden access to and ability to share and store information for increasing numbers of workers. Connectivity between computers within companies led to the ability of workers at different levels to access greater amounts of information.\n\nThe world's technological capacity to store information grew from 2.6 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1986 to 15.8 in 1993, over 54.5 in 2000, and to 295 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007. This is the informational equivalent to less than one 730-MB CD-ROM per person in 1986 (539 MB per person), roughly 4 CD-ROM per person of 1993, 12 CD-ROM per person in the year 2000, and almost 61 CD-ROM per person in 2007. It is estimated that the world's capacity to store information has reached 5 zettabytes in 2014. This is the informational equivalent of 4,500 stacks of printed books from the earth to the sun.\n\nThe world's technological capacity to receive information through one-way broadcast networks was 432 exabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986, 715 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 1993, 1.2 (optimally compressed) zettabytes in 2000, and 1.9 zettabytes in 2007 (this is the information equivalent of 174 newspapers per person per day). The world's effective capacity to exchange information through two-way telecommunication networks was 281 petabytes of (optimally compressed) information in 1986, 471 petabytes in 1993, 2.2 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2000, and 65 (optimally compressed) exabytes in 2007 (this is the information equivalent of 6 newspapers per person per day). In the 1990s, the spread of the Internet caused a sudden leap in access to and ability to share information in businesses and homes globally. Technology was developing so quickly that a computer costing $3000 in 1997 would cost $2000 two years later and $1000 the following year.\n\nThe world's technological capacity to compute information with humanly guided general-purpose computers grew from 3.0 × 10 MIPS in 1986, to 4.4 × 10 MIPS in 1993, 2.9 × 10 MIPS in 2000 to 6.4 × 10 MIPS in 2007. An article in the recognized Journal Trends in Ecology and Evolution reports that by now digital technology \"has vastly exceeded the cognitive capacity of any single human being and has done so a decade earlier than predicted. In terms of capacity, there are two measures of importance: the number of operations a system can perform and the amount of information that can be stored. The number of synaptic operations per second in a human brain has been estimated to lie between 10^15 and 10^17. While this number is impressive, even in 2007 humanity's general-purpose computers were capable of performing well over 10^18 instructions per second. Estimates suggest that the storage capacity of an individual human brain is about 10^12 bytes. On a per capita basis, this is matched by current digital storage (5x10^21 bytes per 7.2x10^9 people)\".\n\nEventually, Information and Communication Technology—computers, computerized machinery, fiber optics, communication satellites, internet, and other ICT tools—became a significant part of the economy. Microcomputers were developed and many businesses and industries were greatly changed by ICT.\n\nNicholas Negroponte captured the essence of these changes in his 1995 book, \"Being Digital.\" His book discusses similarities and differences between products made of atoms and products made of bits. In essence, a copy of a product made of bits can be made cheaply and quickly, and shipped across the country or internationally quickly and at very low cost.\n\nThe Information Age has affected the workforce in several ways. It has created a situation in which workers who perform easily automated tasks are forced to find work that is not easily automated. Workers are also being forced to compete in a global job market. Lastly, workers are being replaced by computers that can do their jobs faster and more effectively. This poses problems for workers in industrial societies, which are still to be solved. However, solutions that involve lowering the working time are usually highly resisted.\n\nJobs traditionally associated with the middle class (assembly line workers, data processors, foremen and supervisors) are beginning to disappear, either through outsourcing or automation. Individuals who lose their jobs must either move up, joining a group of \"mind workers\" (engineers, doctors, attorneys, teachers, scientists, professors, executives, journalists, consultants), or settle for low-skill, low-wage service jobs.\n\nThe \"mind workers\" are able to compete successfully in the world market and receive (relatively) high wages. Conversely, production workers and service workers in industrialized nations are unable to compete with workers in developing countries and either lose their jobs through outsourcing or are forced to accept wage cuts. In addition, the internet makes it possible for workers in developing countries to provide in-person services and compete directly with their counterparts in other nations.\n\nThis has had several major consequences, including increased opportunity in developing countries and the globalisation of the workforce.\n\nWorkers in developing countries have a competitive advantage that translates into increased opportunities and higher wages. The full impact on the workforce in developing countries is complex and has downsides. (see discussion in section on Globalisation).\n\nIn the past, the economic fate of workers was tied to the fate of national economies. For example, workers in the United States were once well paid in comparison to the workers in other countries. With the advent of the Information Age and improvements in communication, this is no longer the case. Because workers are forced to compete in a global job market, wages are less dependent on the success or failure of individual economies.\n\nThe Information Age has affected the workforce in that automation and computerisation have resulted in higher productivity coupled with net job loss in manufacture. In the United States for example, from January 1972 to August 2010, the number of people employed in manufacturing jobs fell from 17,500,000 to 11,500,000 while manufacturing value rose 270%.\n\nAlthough it initially appeared that job loss in the industrial sector might be partially offset by the rapid growth of jobs in the IT sector, the recession of March 2001 foreshadowed a sharp drop in the number of jobs in the IT sector. This pattern of decrease in jobs continued until 2003.\n\nData has shown that overall, technology creates more jobs than it destroys even in the short run.\n\nIndustry is becoming more information-intensive and less labor and capital-intensive (see Information industry). This trend has important implications for the workforce; workers are becoming increasingly productive as the value of their labor decreases. However, there are also important implications for capitalism itself; not only is the value of labor decreased, the value of capital is also diminished. In the classical model, investments in human capital and financial capital are important predictors of the performance of a new venture. However, as demonstrated by Mark Zuckerberg and Facebook, it now seems possible for a group of relatively inexperienced people with limited capital to succeed on a large scale.\n\nThe Information Age was enabled by technology developed in the Digital Revolution, which was itself enabled by building on the developments in the Technological Revolution.\n\nBefore the advent of electronics, mechanical computers, like the Analytical Engine in 1837, were designed to provide routine mathematical calculation and simple decision-making capabilities. Military needs during World War II drove development of the first electronic computers, based on vacuum tubes, including the Z3, the Atanasoff–Berry Computer, Colossus computer, and ENIAC.\n\nThe invention of the transistor in 1947 enabled the era of mainframe computers (1950s – 1970s), typified by the IBM 360. These large, room-sized computers provided data calculation and manipulation that was much faster than humanly possible, but were expensive to buy and maintain, so were initially limited to a few scientific institutions, large corporations, and government agencies. As transistor technology rapidly improved, the ratio of computing power to size increased dramatically, giving direct access to computers to ever smaller groups of people.\n\nAlong with electronic arcade machines and home video game consoles in the 1970s, the development of personal computers like the Commodore PET and Apple II (both in 1977) gave individuals access to the computer. But data sharing between individual computers was either non-existent or largely manual, at first using punched cards and magnetic tape, and later floppy disks.\n\nThe first developments for storing data were initially based on photographs, starting with microphotography in 1851 and then microform in the 1920s, with the ability to store documents on film, making them much more compact. In the 1970s, electronic paper allowed digital information to appear as paper documents.\n\nEarly information theory and Hamming codes were developed about 1950, but awaited technical innovations in data transmission and storage to be put to full use. While cables transmitting digital data connected computer terminals and peripherals to mainframes were common, and special message-sharing systems leading to email were first developed in the 1960s, independent computer-to-computer networking began with ARPANET in 1969. This expanded to become the Internet (coined in 1974), and then the World Wide Web in 1989.\n\nPublic digital data transmission first utilized existing phone lines using dial-up, starting in the 1950s, and this was the mainstay of the Internet until broadband in the 2000s. The introduction of wireless networking in the 1990s combined with the proliferation of communications satellites in the 2000s allowed for public digital transmission without the need for cables. This technology led to digital television, GPS, and satellite radio through the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nComputers continued to become smaller and more powerful, to the point where they could be carried. In the 1980s and 1990s, laptops were developed as a form of portable computers, and PDAs could be used while standing or walking. Pagers existing since the 1950s, were largely replaced by mobile phones beginning in the late 1990s, providing mobile networking features to some computers. Now commonplace, this technology is extended to digital cameras and other wearable devices. Starting in the late 1990s, tablets and then smartphones combined and extended these abilities of computing, mobility, and information sharing.\n\nOptical communication has played an important role in communication networks.\nOptical communication provided the hardware basis for internet technology, laying the foundations for the Digital Revolution and Information Age.\n\nWhile working at Tohoku University, Japanese engineer Jun-ichi Nishizawa proposed fiber-optic communication, the use of optical fibers for optical communication, in 1963. Nishizawa invented other technologies that contributed to the development of optical fiber communications, such as the graded-index optical fiber as a channel for transmitting light from semiconductor lasers. He patented the graded-index optical fiber in 1964. The solid-state optical fiber was invented by Nishizawa in 1964.\n\nThe three essential elements of optical communication were invented by Jun-ichi Nishizawa: the semiconductor laser (1957) being the light source, the graded-index optical fiber (1964) as the transmission line, and the PIN photodiode (1950) as the optical receiver. Izuo Hayashi's invention of the continuous wave semiconductor laser in 1970 led directly to the light sources in fiber-optic communication, laser printers, barcode readers, and optical disc drives, commercialized by Japanese entrepreneurs, and opening up the field of optical communications.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45701683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45701683", "title": "Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum theft", "text": "Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum theft\n\nOn March 18, 1990, 13 works of art valued at a combined total of $500 million were stolen from the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum in Boston. In the early hours, guards admitted two men posing as police officers responding to a disturbance call. Once inside, the thieves tied up the guards and over the next hour committed the largest-value recorded theft of private property in history. Despite efforts by the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and multiple probes around the world, no arrests have been made and no works have been recovered. The museum initially offered a reward of $5 million for information leading to the art's recovery, but in 2017 this was temporarily doubled to $10 million, with an expiration date set to the end of the year. This was extended into 2018 following helpful tips from the public.\n\nThe stolen works had originally been purchased by art collector Isabella Stewart Gardner (1840–1924) and intended to be left on permanent display at the museum with the rest of her collection. Since the collection and its layout are permanent, empty frames remain hanging both in homage to the missing works and as placeholders for their potential return. Experts are puzzled by the choice of paintings that were stolen, especially since more valuable artwork was left untouched. Among the stolen works was \"The Concert\", one of only 34 known works by Vermeer and thought to be the most valuable unrecovered painting, valued at over $200 million. Also missing is \"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee\", Rembrandt's only known seascape. Other works by Rembrandt, Degas, Manet, and Flinck were also stolen.\n\nAccording to the FBI, the stolen artwork was moved through the region and offered for sale in Philadelphia during the early 2000s. They believe the thieves were members of a criminal organization based in the mid-Atlantic and New England. They also claim to have targeted two suspects, although they have not been publicly identified and are now deceased. Boston gangster Bobby Donati, murdered in 1991 as a result of ongoing gang wars, has been cited as a possible collaborator in the heist. Significant evidence suggests that Hartford, Connecticut gangster Robert Gentile knows the location of the works, although he denies involvement.\n\nAround midnight on Sunday morning, March 18, 1990, a red Dodge Daytona pulled up near the side entrance of the Isabella Stewart Gardner Museum along Palace Road. Two men with fake police uniforms waited for at least an hour in the car, possibly trying to avoid being noticed by people leaving a Saint Patrick's Day party nearby. Later at around 1a.m., security guard Richard Abath returned to the front desk after patrolling the museum to switch positions with a fellow guard, the only other person in the building. At this time, Abath opened and quickly shut the Palace Road door, claiming he was trained to do this to ensure the door was locked. He claimed security logs from other nights would show that he had done this many times previously. The FBI has seized the logs, but has not commented on the issue further.\n\nAt 1:24a.m., one of the two men outside pushed the buzzer near the door and told Abath they were policemen who heard of a disturbance in the courtyard, and requested to be let inside. Abath knew he should not let uninvited guests inside, but he was unsure on whether the rule applied to police officers. He could see the men and believed them to be police officers based on their uniforms. With his partner on patrol, Abath decided to buzz in the men. When the intruders arrived at the main security desk, one of them told Abath that he looked familiar and there was a default warrant out for his arrest. Abath stepped out from behind his desk, where the only alarm button to alert police could be accessed. He was quickly asked for his ID, ordered to face the wall, and then handcuffed. Abath believed the arrest was a misunderstanding, until he realized he hadn't been frisked before being cuffed, and one officer's mustache was made of wax. The second security guard arrived minutes later and was also handcuffed, after which he asked the intruders why he was being arrested. The thieves explained that they were not being arrested, but rather this was a robbery, and proceeded to take the guards to the museum's basement. They handcuffed the guards to pipes and wrapped duct tape around their hands, feet, and heads.\n\nSince the museum was equipped with motion detectors, the thieves' movements throughout the museum were recorded. After tying up the guards, the thieves went upstairs to the Dutch Room. As one of them approached Rembrandt's \"Self-Portrait\" (1629), a local alarm sounded, which they immediately smashed. They pulled the painting off the wall and attempted to take the wooden panel out of its heavy frame. Unsuccessful at the attempt, they left the painting on the floor. They cut Rembrandt's \"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee\" out of the frame, as well as \"A Lady and Gentleman in Black\". They also removed Vermeer's \"The Concert\" and Govaert Flinck's \"Landscape with Obelisk\" from their frames. Additionally, they also took a Chinese bronze gu from the Shang dynasty.\n\nElsewhere in the museum, they stole five Degas drawings and an eagle finial. The finial sat at the top of a Napoleonic flag, which they attempted to unscrew from the wall, but failed. Manet's \"Chez Tortoni\" was also stolen from its location in the Blue Room. Motion detector records show that the only footsteps detected in the Blue Room that night were at 12:27a.m. and again at 12:53a.m. These times match to when Abath said he passed through on patrol. The frame for the painting was found on security chief Lyle W. Grindle's chair near the front desk. The thieves made two trips to their car with artwork during the theft, which lasted 81 minutes. Before leaving, they visited the guards once more, telling them \"You'll be hearing from us in about a year,\" although they were never heard from again. The guards remained handcuffed until police arrived at 8:15a.m. later that morning.\n\nAltogether, thirteen pieces were stolen at an estimated loss of $500 million, making the robbery the largest recorded private property theft in history. Empty frames remain hanging in the museum, both in homage to the missing works and as placeholders for their potential return. One of the paintings, \"The Concert\", was Gardner's first major acquisition and one of only 34 known Vermeer works in the world. It is thought to be the most valuable unrecovered stolen painting, with a value estimated at over $200 million. Another painting, \"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee\", is Rembrandt's only known seascape. The bronze finial was taken from the top of a Napoleonic flag, possibly appearing like gold to the thieves. The museum is offering a $100,000 reward for this piece alone.\n\nThe following are the missing works of art:\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation took control of the case on the grounds that the artwork would likely cross state lines. They have conducted hundreds of interviews with probes stretching across the world involving Scotland Yard, Japanese and French authorities, private investigators, museum directors, and art dealers. The FBI believes the thieves were members of a criminal organization based in the mid-Atlantic and New England, and that the stolen paintings were moved through Connecticut and the Philadelphia area in the years following the theft. Some of the art may have been offered for sale in Philadelphia in the early 2000s, including \"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee\"; however, their knowledge of what happened to the works after the attempted sale is limited. The FBI stated it believed it knew the identity of the thieves in 2013, but in 2015 announced that they were now deceased. They have declined to identify the individuals.\nNo single motive or pattern has emerged through the thousands of pages of evidence gathered. The selection of works puzzles the experts, specifically since more valuable artworks were available. The FBI's lead agent assigned to the case, Geoffrey J. Kelly, finds it difficult to understand why this assortment of items was stolen despite the thieves being in the museum for enough time to take whatever they wished. On their way to the finial, the thieves passed by two Raphaels and a Botticelli painting. Titian's \"The Rape of Europa\", which is one of the museum's most well-known and valuable pieces, was not stolen. Due to the brutish ways the criminals handled the robbery, cutting the paintings from their frames and smashing frames for two Degas sketches, investigators believe the thieves were amateur criminals, not experts commissioned to steal particular works. Some investigators believe the works were destroyed, explaining why they have not reappeared. Theories on the theft include that it was organized by the Irish Republican Army in order to raise money or bargain for the release of imprisoned comrades. Another theory states Whitey Bulger was the ringleader of the theft. At the time of the heist, he was Boston's top crime boss and an FBI informant.\n\nThe museum first offered a reward of $1 million, but that was later increased to $5 million in 1997. The reward is for \"information that leads directly to the recovery of all of [their] items in good condition\", which remains on offer more than a quarter-century later. In May 2017, the bounty was doubled to $10 million, with an expiration date set for midnight on December 31 of that year. This reward was extended into 2018 following an outpouring of tips from the public. Federal authorities have stated they will not charge anyone who voluntarily turns in the artwork, but anyone caught knowingly in possession of stolen items could be prosecuted. The thieves cannot face charges because the five-year statute of limitations has expired.\n\nIn 2010, the FBI announced that some evidence from the original crime scene had been sent to the FBI's Laboratory in Quantico, Virginia, for retesting with the hope of finding new DNA evidence to identify the culprits of the theft.\n\nIn June 2017, \"The Boston Globe\" reported that some of the crime scene evidence collected by the FBI was missing. Even after an exhaustive search, they were unable to locate handcuffs and duct tape used to immobilize the museum's two security guards that could have contained traces of the thieves' DNA material.\n\nIn 1994, the museum director Anne Hawley received a letter that promised the return of the pieces for $2.6 million. If interested, the museum had to get \"The Boston Globe\" to publish a coded message in a business story. The message was published, but nothing further was heard once law enforcement got involved.\n\nLate one night in 1997, \"Boston Herald\" reporter Tom Mashberg was driven to a warehouse in Red Hook, Brooklyn by William Youngworth, a career criminal and associate of New England art thief Myles Connor Jr., to see what was purported to be \"The Storm on the Sea of Galilee\". Mashberg had been investigating the theft and was briefly allowed to view the painting with a flashlight. He was given a vial of paint chips for authenticity. These were later confirmed by experts to be fragments of Dutch 17th-century origin—but not from the stolen painting. It was never concretely determined to be real or fake, and the FBI quit dealing with Youngworth after not making any progress. The painting has since disappeared.\nOn August 6, 2015, police released a video from the night before the theft that is believed to show a dry run of the robbery. Two men appear on the tape: one remains unidentified, while the other has been confirmed as Richard Abath, a security guard on duty the night of the heist. The video appears to show Abath buzzing the unidentified man into the museum twice within a few minutes. The man stayed for about three minutes in the lobby, then returned to a car and drove off. Police say the video opens new lines of investigation, and \"The New York Times\" points out that it draws new attention to Abath as a potential collaborator. However, the guards had previously been interviewed and deemed too unimaginative to have pulled off the heist – which is not to say they could not have been collaborators.\n\nIn December 2015 FBI agents searched East Boston's Suffolk Downs horse racing track, acting on a tip consistent with rumors among Suffolk Downs employees in the 1990s that the stolen art was there. Stables, parts of the grandstand closed since the early 1990s, and two safes (which had to be drilled open) were searched without result.\n\nBoston gangster Bobby Donati may have been involved in the heist. New England art thief Myles J. Connor Jr., in prison at the time of the robbery, has stated that he and associate Bobby Donati eyed the museum in the 1980s and Donati oversaw the operation. Shortly before the robbery, Donati was seen at a nightclub with a sack of police uniforms. Donati worked under Boston crime boss Vincent Ferrara, and visited him in prison in the early 1990s. When Ferrara asked about the robbery, Donati said he \"buried the stuff\" and would find a way to negotiate his release. Donati was murdered in 1991 as a result of ongoing gang wars.\n\nHartford, Connecticut, gangster Robert \"Bobby the Cook\" Gentile has been suggested on multiple occasions as knowing the location of the Gardner works. In May 2012, FBI agents searched Gentile's home in Manchester, Connecticut. They did not find any stolen works, despite searching his preferred hiding spot beneath a false floor with the help of his son. However, in the basement, they found a sheet of paper listing what each stolen piece might draw on the black market. In January 2016, the FBI contrived gun charges against Gentile to force him to reveal the location of the missing works. During a hearing, a federal prosecutor revealed significant evidence tying Gentile to the crime. The prosecutor stated that Gentile and mob partner Robert Guarente attempted to use the return of two stolen pieces to reduce a prison sentence for one of their associates. Guarente's wife told investigators in early 2015 that her husband once had possession of some of the art, and gave two paintings to Gentile before Guarente died of cancer in 2004. Also, while in federal prison during 2013–2014, Gentile told at least three people he had knowledge of the stolen art. In 2015, Gentile submitted to a lie detector test, denying advanced knowledge of the heist or ever possessing any paintings. The result showed a 0.1% chance that he was truthful. According to Gentile's lawyer, federal agents are convinced that Gentile has the stolen works. Gentile's home was searched again by the FBI on May 2, 2016, even though his lawyer insists that if Gentile had the stolen artwork or knowledge of its whereabouts, he would have turned it in for the reward money a long time ago. On September 5, 2017, Gentile was scheduled to be sentenced for a separate weapons charge in Connecticut.\n\nWhen the museum raised its bounty in 1997, Myles J. Connor Jr. said he could locate the missing artwork in exchange for legal immunity. Authorities rejected his offer. Connor now believes that the Gardner works have passed into other, unknown hands. \"I was probably told, but I don't remember,\" he said, blaming a heart attack that affected his memory. Louis Royce, another Boston area gangster, claims he is still owed 15% for devising the plan for two fake policemen to request access to the museum at night.\n\nThe high profile Gardner Museum theft has been referenced and parodied in many different works. It was the subject of the 2005 documentary \"Stolen\", which first appeared in a slightly different version on Court TV. The more well-known paintings have been referenced in multiple TV shows, including \"The Blacklist\" episode \"The Courier\" (and an allusion to the Gardner Museum heist itself in the episode \"Greyson Blaise\"), \"The Simpsons\" episode \"American History X-cellent\", \"Drunk History\" episode \"Boston\", and \"American Greed\".\n\nSeveral books were written by former investigators: \"Artful Deception\" (2012) by James J. McGovern; \"Priceless: How I Went Undercover to Rescue the World's Stolen Treasures\" (2010), by Robert Wittman and John Shiffman; and \"Stolen Masterpiece Tracker\" (2006) by Thomas McShane.\n\nStephen Kurkjian, a reporter for \"The Boston Globe\", has written a book about his experience titled \"Master Thieves: The Boston Gangsters Who Pulled Off the World's Greatest Art Heist\" (2015). Journalist Ulrich Boser wrote a book called \"The Gardner Heist\" (2009), leaning heavily on the documented investigation of Harold Smith, an insurance underwriter who worked on art cases.\n\nThe theft features in the novel \"The Art Forger\" (2012) by B.A. Shapiro.\n\nIn 2018, \"The Boston Globe\" and WBUR-FM launched a podcast exploring the theft, titled \"Last Seen\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34266740", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34266740", "title": "Jacques-François de Villiers", "text": "Jacques-François de Villiers\n\nJacques-François de Villiers (1727–1794) was a French physician and translator.\n\nVilliers practised as a doctor in the camps of the royal army during the Seven Years' War. He was later appointed \"docteur-régent\" of the faculty of medicine at the University of Paris and also worked at the Royal Veterinary School.\n\nHe wrote ten articles for Diderot and D'Alembert's famous \"Encyclopédie\", including the longest article of the work, \"Forneau (Chimie philosophique)\" (\"Furnace (Chemical philosophy\"). He also contributed to the \"Journal de médecine\" and was the translator of numerous medical works from Latin and from English.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41932658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41932658", "title": "Jötunvillur", "text": "Jötunvillur\n\nJötunvillur are a set of runic code inscriptions dating back to the Viking age. Although previously untranslatable, a proposed solution to the code was announced by the runologist K Jonas Nordby in 2014.\n"}
{"id": "76563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=76563", "title": "Lingala", "text": "Lingala\n\nLingala (Ngala) is a Bantu language spoken throughout the northwestern part of the Democratic Republic of the Congo and a large part of the Republic of the Congo, as well as to some degree in Angola and the Central African Republic. It has over 10 million speakers.\n\nIn the 19th century, before the creation of the Congo Free State, the \"Bangala\" (literally: 'river people') were a group of similar Bantu peoples living and trading along the bend of the Congo River that reached from Irebu at the mouth of the Ubangi River to the Mongala River. They spoke similar languages, such as Losengo, but their trade language was Bangi, which was the most prestigious language between Stanley Pool (Kinshasa) and Irebu. As a result, people upstream of the Bangala mistook Bangi for the language of the Bangala and called it Lingala (language of the Bangala), and European missionaries followed suit.\n\nIn the last two decades of the 19th century, after the forces of Leopold II of Belgium conquered the region and started exploiting it commercially, Bangi came into wider use. The colonial administration, in need of a common language for the region, started to use the language for administrative purposes. It had already simplified, compared to local Bantu languages, in its sentence structure, word structure and sounds, and speakers borrowed words and constructs liberally from other languages. However, the fact that speakers had very similar native languages prevented Lingala from becoming as radically restructured as Kituba, which developed among speakers of both Bantu and West African languages.\n\nAround 1900, CICM missionaries started a project to \"purify\" the language in order to make it \"pure Bantu\" again. Meeuwis (1998:7) writes:\n\n[M]issionaries, such as the Protestant W. Stapleton and later, and more influentially, E. De Boeck himself, judged that the grammar and lexicon of this language were too poor for it to function properly as a medium of education, evangelization, and other types of vertical communication with the Africans in the northwestern and central-western parts of the colony (..). They set out to 'correct' and 'expand' the language by drawing on lexical and grammatical elements from surrounding vernacular languages.\n\nThe importance of Lingala as a vernacular has since grown with the size and importance of its main center of use, Kinshasa; with its use as the lingua franca of the armed forces, and with the popularity of soukous music.\n\nEuropean missionaries called the language \"Bangala\", after the Bangala people, or \"Lingala\". The latter was intended to mean '(language) of the Bangala' or 'of the River' (that is, 'Riverine Language'). However, this was an error, as the proper Bangi form would have been \"Kingala\". The name \"Lingala\" first appears in writing in a publication by the CICM missionary Egide De Boeck (1903).\n\nAccording to some linguists, Lingala language is a Bantu-based creole of Central Africa with roots in the Bobangi language.. In its basic vocabulary, Lingala has many borrowings from different other languages such as in French, Spanish, Portuguese, and English.\n\nIn practice, the extent of borrowing varies widely with speakers of different regions (commonly among young people), and during different occasions.\n\nFrench \n\nSpanish\n\nPortuguese\n\nEnglish\n\nThe Lingala language can be divided into several dialects or variations. The major variations are considered to be Standard Lingala, Spoken Lingala, Kinshasa Lingala and Brazzaville Lingala.\n\nStandard Lingala (called \"lingala littéraire\" or \"lingala classique\" in French) is mostly used in educational and news broadcastings on radio or television, in religious services in the Roman Catholic Church and is the language taught as a subject at all educational levels. Standard Lingala is historically associated with the work of the Catholic Church and missionaries. It has a seven-vowel system with an obligatory tense-lax vowel harmony. It also has a full range of morphological noun prefixes with mandatory grammatical agreement system with subject–verb, or noun–modifier for each of class. Standard Lingala is largely used in formal functions.\n\nSpoken Lingala (called \"lingala parlé\" in French) is the variation mostly used in the day-to-day lives of Lingalaphones. It has a full morphological noun prefix system, but the agreement system is more lax than the standard variation, i.e. noun-modifier agreement is reduced to two classes. Regarding phonology, there is also a seven-vowel system but the vowel harmony is not mandatory. This variation of Lingala is historically associated with the Protestant missionaries' work. Spoken Lingala is largely used in informal functions, and the majority of Lingala songs use spoken Lingala over other variations. Modern spoken Lingala is increasingly influenced by French; French verbs, for example, may be \"lingalized\" adding Lingala inflection prefixes and suffixes: \"acomprenaki te\" or \"acomprendraki te\" (he did not understand, using the French word comprendre) instead of classic Lingala \"asímbaki ntína te\" (literally: s/he grasped/held the root/cause not).\n\nLingala words show vowel harmony to some extent. The close-mid vowels and normally do not mix with the open-mid vowels and in words. For example, the words \"ndɔbɔ\" 'fishhook' and \"ndobo\" 'mouse trap' are found, but not \"\n\nThe Lingala spoken in Kinshasa shows a vowel shift from to , leading to the absence of the phoneme in favor of . The same occurs with and , leading to just . So in Kinshasa, a native speaker will say \"mbóte\" as , compared to the more traditional pronunciation of .\n\n(1) is allophonic with depending on the dialect.\n\nThe prenasalized stops formed with a nasal followed by a voiceless plosive are allophonic to the voiceless plosives alone in some variations of Lingala.\nThe prenasalized voiced occlusives, do not vary.\n\nLingala being a tonal language, tone is a distinguishing feature in minimal pairs, e.g.: \"mutu\" (human being) and \"mutú\" (head), or kokoma (to write) and kokóma (to arrive). There are two tones possible, the normal one is low and the second one is high. There is a third, less common tone – starting high, dipping low and then ending high – all within the same vowel sound, e.g.: \"bôngó\" (therefore).\n\nTense morphemes carry tones.\n\nLike all Bantu languages, Lingala has a noun class system in which nouns are classified according to the prefixes they bear and according to the prefixes they trigger in sentences. The table below shows the noun classes of Lingala, ordered according to the numbering system that is widely used in descriptions of Bantu languages.\n\nIndividual classes pair up with each other to form singular/plural pairs, sometimes called 'genders'. There are seven genders in total. The singular classes 1, 3, 5, 7, and 9 take their plural forms from classes 2, 4, 6, 8, 10, respectively. Additionally, many household items found in class 9 take a class 2 prefix (\"ba\") in the plural: \"lutu\" → \"balutu\" 'spoon', \"mesa\" → \"bamesa\" 'table', \"sani\" → \"basani\" 'plate'. Words in class 11 usually take a class 10 plural. Most words from class 14 (abstract nouns) do not have a plural counterpart.\n\nClass 9 and 10 have a nasal prefix, which assimilates to the following consonant. Thus, the prefix shows up as 'n' on words that start with \"t\" or \"d\", e.g. \"ntaba\" 'goat', but as 'm' on words that start with \"b\" or \"p\" (e.g. \"mbisi\" 'fish'). There is also a prefixless class 9a and 10a, exemplified by \"sánzá\" → \"sánzá\" 'moon(s) or month(s)'. Possible ambiguities are solved by the context.\n\nNoun class prefixes do not show up only on the noun itself, but serve as markers throughout the whole sentence. In the sentences below, the class prefixes are underlined. (There is a special verbal form 'a' of the prefix for class 1 nouns.)\n\nOnly to a certain extent, noun class allocation is semantically governed. Classes 1/2, as in all Bantu languages, mainly contain words for human beings; similarly, classes 9/10 contain many words for animals. In other classes, semantical regularities are mostly absent or are obscured by many exceptions.\n\nThere are 4 morphemes modifying verbs. They are added to some verb root in the following order:\n\nThe first tone segment affects the subject part of the verb, the second tone segment attaches to the semantic morpheme attached to the root of the verb.\n\nLingala is more a spoken language than a written language, and has several different writing systems, most of them ad hoc. Due to the low literacy of Lingala speakers in Lingala (in the Republic of the Congo literacy rate in Lingala as a first language is between 10% and 30%), its popular orthography is very flexible and varies from one Congo to the other. Some orthographies are heavily influenced by the French language orthography; including double S, \"ss\", to transcribe [s] (in the Republic of the Congo); \"ou\" for [u] (in the Republic of the Congo); i with trema, \"aï\", to transcribe or ; e with acute accent, \"é\", to transcribe [e]; \"e\" to transcribe , o with acute accent, ó, to transcribe or sometimes [o] in opposition to o transcribing [o] or ; i or y can both transcribe [j]. The allophones are also found as alternating forms in the popular orthography; \"sango\" is an alternative to \"nsango\" (information or news); \"nyonso\", \"nyoso\", \"nionso\", \"nioso\" (every) are all transcriptions of \"nyɔ́nsɔ\".\n\nIn 1976, the \"Société Zaïroise des Linguistes\" (Zairian Linguists Society) adopted a writing system for Lingala, using the open e and the open o to write the vowels and , and sporadic usage of accents to mark tone, though the limitation of input methods prevents Lingala writers from easily using the and and the accents. For example, it is almost impossible to type Lingala according to that convention with a common English or French keyboard. The convention of 1976 reduced the alternative orthography of characters but did not enforce tone marking. The lack of consistent accentuation is lessened by the disambiguation due to context.\n\nThe popular orthographies seem to be a step ahead of any academic based orthography. Many Lingala books, papers, even the translation of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights and more recently, Internet forums, newsletters, and major websites, such as Google's Lingala, do not use the Lingala specific characters ɛ and ɔ. Tone marking is found in most literary works.\n\nThe Lingala language has 35 letters and digraphs. The digraphs each have a specific order in the alphabet, for example \"mza\" will be expected to be ordered before \"mba\", because the digraph \"mb\" follows the letter \"m\". The letters \"r\" and \"h\" are rare but present in borrowed words.\nThe accents indicate the tones :\n\nThe Lord's Prayer (Catholic version)\n\nThe Lord's Prayer (Protestant version used in Ubangi-Mongala region)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1664763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1664763", "title": "Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus", "text": "Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus\n\nLucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus is the third novel in the \"Lucky Starr\" series, six juvenile science fiction novels by Isaac Asimov that originally appeared under the pseudonym Paul French. The novel was first published by Doubleday & Company in 1954. Since 1972, reprints have included a foreword by Asimov explaining that advancing knowledge of conditions on Venus have rendered the novel's descriptions of that world inaccurate.\n\nIn his autobiography \"In Memory Yet Green\", Asimov notes that his original version of the novel was rejected by Doubleday and had to be extensively revised before it was accepted:\n\"Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus\" was written in the mid-1950s, when little was known about Venus apart from its mass, volume, orbital characteristics, and the fact of its unbroken cloud cover. Asimov assumed that Venus has a temperate climate, with a period of rotation of 36 hours, a planet-wide ocean covering the surface, and an atmosphere that is 90% nitrogen and 10% carbon dioxide; that the planetary ocean is covered with blue-green native vegetation; and that native animals inhabit the ocean. These animals, many of them phosphorescent, include an aggressive carnivore called an orange patch that shoots a jet of water at its prey, and the V-frogs, small amphibians that the human colonists keep as pets.\n\nAsimov's Venus has a human population of six million living in some fifty domed cities on the ocean floor. The largest Venusian city is Aphrodite, with a population of a quarter million. The chief exports are fertilizer made from the native vegetation, and animal feed derived from cultivated yeast.\n\nShortly after returning from the Asteroid Belt, David \"Lucky\" Starr learns that his Science Academy roommate Lou Evans had been sent to investigate trouble on Venus, but the Council of Science office on Venus has requested that he be recalled and investigated for corruption.\n\nAs Starr and John \"Bigman\" Jones are shuttled to Venus, their pilots suffer an episode of paralysis, and Starr is required to keep their craft from smashing itself against the surface of the Venusian ocean. Afterwards, the pilots have no memory of the event.\n\nUpon reaching the Venusian city of Aphrodite, Starr and Bigman meet Dr. Mel Morriss, head of the Council of Science on Venus, who explains that Venusian scientists are perfecting strains of yeast that can be processed into luxury foods for export; whereas for six months there has been a growing series of incidents of bizarre behavior among the human colonists, often followed by amnesia. Morriss believes they are being telepathically controlled by an unknown enemy. Evans was sent to Venus to investigate, but was found with stolen data concerning a secret strain of yeast, and is under arrest. When Starr confronts him, Evans admits to having stolen the data, but refuses to explain further. While Starr is questioning him, word reaches them that a man is threatening to open an outside airlock, which will allow the ocean to flood Aphrodite.\n\nStarr, Bigman, and Morriss go to the airlock to deal with the crisis, where they meet the city's chief engineer, Lyman Turner, the inventor and owner of a laptop computer carried with him. While Bigman goes through the ventilation ducts to cut power to the airlock door, Starr realizes that the airlock crisis is a feint and hastens to Council headquarters, to find that Evans has escaped custody and left Aphrodite in a submarine.\n\nStarr and Bigman pursue Evans in another submarine, eventually finding him and learning that the V-frogs are the source of the telepathic incidents; Evans having tested this hypothesis by stealing the secret data on the yeast strain, and interesting the V-frogs therein with the result of an accident involving that strain. Evans further reveals that the V-frogs have trapped himself and the other protagonists beneath an enormous deep-sea orange patch, which will attack them if they attempt escape.\n\nStarr, in response, leaves the submarine and uses an electric shock to destroy the orange patch's heart, killing it. He then returns to the submarine, and pilots this to the surface of the ocean, where he intends to communicate his findings to an orbiting space station to be relayed to the Council on Earth.\n\nOn the surface, the V-frogs communicate telepathically with him, telling him they intend to take over the minds of the humans on Venus. Initially they keep him away from the radio; but he is able to distract them and transmit his message. Returning to Aphrodite, Starr explains to Morriss that the V-frogs' telepathy is used by a human individual to attempt control over the rest of humanity, and that the means of doing so is Lyman Turner's computer. Bigman destroys the computer and Starr captures Turner, hoping to re-create his computer in the interest of reforming Turner himself.\n\nIn \"Lucky Starr and the Oceans of Venus\", Asimov returned to a recurring theme of his work — the use of mental powers to influence or control the actions of others. As far back as \"Half-Breeds on Venus\" in 1940, Asimov was writing about telepathic Venusians mentally controlling a native sauropod. The character of the Mule from the 1945 Foundation story of the same name, and Joseph Schwartz from the 1950 novel \"Pebble in the Sky\" could also use their mental powers to control others. Later, Asimov would introduce the mind-reading robot R. Giskard Reventlov in the 1983 novel \"The Robots of Dawn\", and the telepathic world-entity Erythro in the 1989 novel \"Nemesis\". Asimov's science-fictional mentor, John W. Campbell, was fascinated by the idea of telepathy, and as the editor of \"Astounding Science Fiction\", he was able to ensure that his fascination was reflected in the stories his writers wrote and his magazine printed.\n\nAsimov also created a number of alien creatures to populate his Venusian ocean, and this was \"not\" a common theme of his. Asimov's works usually centered on the interactions of sentient beings, usually humans or robots, or occasionally intelligent aliens, with his fictional worlds serving only as backdrops. For \"Oceans of Venus\", his only novel-length work set on that world, he hearkened back to the works of Stanley G. Weinbaum, whose imaginative alien ecologies made him a major figure in the science fiction field during his brief writing career in the mid-1930s. In his anthology \"Before the Golden Age\", Asimov wrote that \"Oceans of Venus\" was \"a conscious imitation of the spirit\" of Weinbaum's 1935 story \"Parasite Planet\", which was also set on Venus.\n\nThe growing Cold War background of the Lucky Starr series is also present in \"Oceans of Venus\", though here it serves as a red herring, causing Mel Morriss to wrongly suspect a Sirian plot behind the growing troubles on Venus. Asimov also repeats a plot twist from \"David Starr, Space Ranger\", momentarily throwing suspicion on one character before revealing that the actual villain is someone else.\n\nOne unusual aspect of \"Oceans of Venus\" is the brief appearance of Lyman Turner's wife in chapter 7. Mrs. Turner is the only female character to appear in the entire Lucky Starr series.\n\nBoth Turner and the Mule from the Foundation series are discovered and stopped due to very similar mistakes. The Mule could not bring himself to touch the mind of Bayta Darrell, the only woman who cared about him (and whom he seemed to love), leaving her free to piece together the clues about his identity. Similarly, Turner is exposed because he couldn't bring himself to disturb his dearly loved wife during the supposed danger to the city, despite their house being equipped with a shelter for such occasions, which made Starr realize he knew there was no danger in the first place.\n\nWriting in \"The New York Times\", Villiers Gerson praised the novel as \"crackling with suspense, lit by humor, sparkling with complexities of plot, and alive with interest\". Reviewer Groff Conklin found \"Oceans of Venus\" a cut above the series's first two installments, calling it \"a colorful and exciting tale. . . . [A] real thriller for fans of all ages.\" Anthony Boucher similarly reported \"Oceans\" an improvement over the series's previous installments, singling out its \"combining plausible adventure, interesting alien life-forms and a sound detective story.\" P. Schuyler Miller also reviewed the novel favorably, ranking it with Robert A. Heinlein's juveniles.\n\nIn 1991 the story was adapted as a comic book by Fernando Fernandez.\n\n"}
{"id": "7456692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7456692", "title": "Man, Myth &amp; Magic (encyclopedia)", "text": "Man, Myth &amp; Magic (encyclopedia)\n\nMan, Myth & Magic: An Illustrated Encyclopedia of the Supernatural is an encyclopedia of the supernatural, including magic, mythology and religion. It was edited by Richard Cavendish. The art director was Brian Innes, former percussionist of The Temperance Seven.\n\n\"Man, Myth & Magic\" was originally published as a British weekly magazine by BPC Publishing, Ltd.. The printer was Purnell & Sons. Leeds. Publication commenced in 1970, and continued for 112 issues spanning 1,000 articles with some 5,000 illustrations, many of them in full colour. Purnell also sold binders for gathering the installments into seven volumes, plus one additional binder for the magazine covers.\n\nIn 1970 BPC Publishing Ltd put out a very popular hardcover set condensing all 112 magazines into a 24 volume set.\nIt was reprinted as a 21 volume revised edition by Marshall Cavendish in 1995 ().\nThe material has been sold to Cavendish Square Publishing, which has published ten volumes of the material reorganized into books according to subject, including \"Witches and Witchcraft\" as well as \"Beliefs, Rituals, and Symbols of Ancient Greece and Rome\".\n\nMore than two hundred academics and specialists contributed to the magazine, and wrote in a generally accessible style.\n\nThe editorial board consisted of:\n\n"}
{"id": "28719250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28719250", "title": "Miles Brothers", "text": "Miles Brothers\n\nThe four Miles brothers, Harry, Herbert, Joseph, and Earle C, were pioneers in American cinema. In 1902, they established one of the first motion picture exchanges in the United States.\n\nTheir 1906 film, \"A Trip Down Market Street\", is an historic 13-minute journey down Market Street in San Francisco from 8th Street to the Embarcadero, giving a rare view of the street before the 1906 San Francisco earthquake. The film was long thought to have been made in September 1905, after being dated as such by the Library of Congress based on the state of construction of several buildings.\n\nHowever, in 2009 and 2010, film historian David Kiehn, a co-founder of Niles Film Museum in Niles, California, a museum devoted to Essanay Studios, dated the film to the spring of 1906 from automobile registrations and weather records. Kiehn and eventually found promotional materials from the film's original release. The film was sent to New York City by train the night before the earthquake, which destroyed the Miles Brothers' studio where it had been kept. Three prints survive as of 2010, and it has been digitally restored.\n\n"}
{"id": "8666821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8666821", "title": "Missing letter effect", "text": "Missing letter effect\n\nIn cognitive psychology, the missing letter effect refers to the finding that, when people are asked to consciously detect target letters while reading text, they miss more letters in frequent, function words (e.g. the letter \"h\" in \"the\") than in less frequent, content words. The missing letter effect has also been referred to as the reverse word superiority effect, since it describes a phenomenon where letters in more frequent words fail to be identified, instead of letter identification benefitting from increased word frequency.\n\nThe effect is usually measured using a paper-and-pencil procedure, where readers are asked to circle a target letter every time they come across it while reading a short passage. The missing letter effect is more likely to appear when reading words that are part of a normal sequence, than when words are embedded in a mixed-up sequence (e.g. readers asked to read backwards). \n\nTwo primary hypotheses tried to explain the missing letter effect: Healy (1994) emphasized identification processes playing a crucial role, almost entirely focusing on word frequency. However, Koriat & Greenberg (1994) viewed the structural role of the word within a sentence (i.e. function words vs. content words) to be crucial. Both accounts were thoroughly investigated, but neither could completely explain the effect.\n\nA new model called the guidance-organization model was recently proposed to potentially explain the missing letter effect. It is a combination of the two models proposed by Healy, Koriat, and Greenberg. As Greenberg et al. explain: \"The time spent processing high-frequency function words at the whole-word level is relatively short, thereby enabling the fast and early use of these words to build a tentative structural frame.\"\nKlein and Saint-Aubin proposed the attentional-disengagement model similarly includes aspects of the two earlier models but emphasizes the role of attention in reading and comprehension. They suggest that attention disengages faster from functional words than content words leading to the missing letter effect.\n"}
{"id": "1375776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1375776", "title": "Mozart effect", "text": "Mozart effect\n\nThe Mozart effect can refer to: \n\nThe term was first coined by Alfred A. Tomatis who used Mozart's music as the listening stimulus in his work attempting to cure a variety of disorders. The approach has been popularized in Don Campbell's book, \"The Mozart Effect\", which is based on an experiment published in \"Nature\" suggesting that listening to Mozart temporarily boosted scores on one portion of the IQ test. As a result, the United States' Governor of Georgia, Zell Miller, proposed a budget to provide every child born in Georgia with a CD of classical music.\n\nThe concept of the \"Mozart effect\" was described by French researcher Dr. Alfred A. Tomatis in his 1991 book \"Pourquoi Mozart?\" (\"Why Mozart?\"). He used the music of Mozart in his efforts to \"retrain\" the ear, and believed that listening to the music presented at differing frequencies helped the ear, and promoted healing and the development of the brain.\n\nFrances Rauscher, Gordon Shaw, and Catherine Ky (1993) investigated the effect of listening to music by Mozart on spatial reasoning, and the results were published in \"Nature\". They gave research participants one of three standard tests of abstract spatial reasoning after they had experienced each of three listening conditions: the Sonata for Two Pianos in D major, K. 448 by Mozart, verbal relaxation instructions, and silence. They found a temporary enhancement of spatial-reasoning, as measured by spatial-reasoning sub tasks of the Stanford-Binet IQ test. Rauscher et al. show that the enhancing effect of the music condition is only temporary: no student had effects extending beyond the 15-minute period in which they were tested. The study makes no statement of an increase in IQ in general (because IQ was never measured).\n\nWhile Rauscher et al. only showed an increase in \"spatial intelligence\", the results were popularly interpreted as an increase in general IQ. This misconception, and the fact that the music used in the study was by Mozart, had an obvious appeal to those who valued this music; the Mozart effect was thus widely reported. In 1994, \"New York Times\" music columnist Alex Ross wrote in a light-hearted article, \"researchers [Rauscher and Shaw] have determined that listening to Mozart actually makes you smarter\", and presented this as the final piece of evidence that Mozart has dethroned Beethoven as \"the world's greatest composer. \" A 1997 \"Boston Globe\" article mentioned some of the Rauscher and Shaw results. It described one study in which three- and four-year-olds who were given eight months of private piano lessons scored 30% higher on tests of spatio-temporal reasoning than control groups given computer lessons, singing lessons, and no training. \n\nThe 1997 book by Don Campbell, \"The Mozart Effect: Tapping the Power of Music to Heal the Body, Strengthen the Mind, and Unlock the Creative Spirit\", discusses the theory that listening to Mozart (especially the piano concertos) may temporarily increase one's IQ and produce many other beneficial effects on mental function. Campbell recommends playing specially selected classical music to infants, in the expectation that it will benefit their mental development.\n\nAfter \"The Mozart Effect\", Campbell wrote a follow-up book, \"The Mozart Effect For Children\", and created related products. Among these are collections of music that he states harness the Mozart effect to enhance \"deep rest and rejuvenation\", \"intelligence and learning\", and \"creativity and imagination\". Campbell defines the term as \"an inclusive term signifying the transformational powers of music in health, education, and well-being. It represents the general use of music to reduce stress, depression, or anxiety; induce relaxation or sleep; activate the body; and improve memory or awareness. Innovative and experimental uses of music and sound can improve listening disorders, dyslexia, attention deficit disorder, autism, and other mental and physical disorders and diseases\".\n\nThese theories are controversial. The relationship of sound and music (both played and listened to) for cognitive function and various physiological metrics has been explored in studies with no definitive results.\n\nThe political impact of the theory was demonstrated on January 13, 1998, when Zell Miller, governor of Georgia, announced that his proposed state budget would include $105,000 a year to provide every child born in Georgia with a tape or CD of classical music. Miller stated \"No one questions that listening to music at a very early age affects the spatial-temporal reasoning that underlies math and engineering and even chess.\" Miller played legislators some of Beethoven's \"Ode to Joy\" on a tape recorder and asked \"Now, don't you feel smarter already?\" Miller asked Yoel Levi, music director of the Atlanta Symphony, to compile a collection of classical pieces that should be included. State representative Homer DeLoach said \"I asked about the possibility of including some Charlie Daniels or something like that, but they said they thought the classical music has a greater positive impact. Having never studied those impacts too much, I guess I'll just have to take their word for that.\"\n\nWhile some supportive reports have been published, studies with positive results have tended to be associated with any form of music that has energetic and positive emotional qualities. Moreover, the intellectual benefits of enhanced mood and arousal are not restricted to spatial-temporal reasoning, but extend to speed of processing and creative problem solving. Among children, some studies suggest no effect on IQ or spatial ability, whereas others suggest that the effect can be elicited with energetic popular music that the children enjoy. The weight of subsequent evidence supports either a null effect, or short-term effects related to increases in mood and arousal, with mixed results published after the initial report in \"Nature\".\n\nIn 1999 a major challenge was raised to the existence of the Mozart effect by two teams of researchers. In a pair of papers published together under the title \"Prelude or Requiem for the 'Mozart Effect'?\" Chabris reported a meta-analysis demonstrating that \"any cognitive enhancement is small and does not reflect any change in IQ or reasoning ability in general, but instead derives entirely from performance on one specific type of cognitive task and has a simple neuropsychological explanation\", called \"enjoyment arousal\". For example, he cites a study that found that \"listening either to Mozart or to a passage from a Stephen King story enhanced subjects' performance in paper folding and cutting (one of the tests frequently employed by Rauscher and Shaw) but only for those who enjoyed what they heard\". Steele et. al. found that \"listening to Mozart produced a 3-point increase relative to silence in one experiment and a 4-point decrease in the other experiment\". In another study, the effect was replicated with the original Mozart music, but eliminated when the tempo was slowed down and major chords were replaced by minor chords.\n\nAnother meta-analysis by Pietschnig, Voracek, and Formann (2010) combined results of 39 studies to answer the question as to whether or not the Mozart Effect exists. They concluded that there is little evidence to support the Mozart effect, as shown by small effect sizes. However, the most striking finding in this meta-analysis is the significantly larger effects published in studies affiliated with Rauscher or Rideout, with effect sizes more than three times higher for published studies affiliated with these founding members of the Mozart Effect. These systematic moderating effects due to lab affiliation call into question the existence of a Mozart Effect. In addition, this study also found strong evidence supporting a confounding publication bias when effect sizes of samples who listened to Mozart are compared to samples not exposed to a stimulus.\n\nDespite implementing Rauscher, Shaw, and Ky's (1995) suggestions of three key components that must be present to replicate the Mozart Effect, McCutcheon (2000) still failed to reproduce the Mozart Effect in a study with 36 adults. These conditions were: to ensure a task that taps into spatial components of mental imagery; a research design that does not include a pretest to avoid ceiling effects; a musical composition that is complex rather than repetitive and simple. Regardless of listening to classical music, jazz or silence, the study did not yield a significant effect on spatial reasoning performance.\n\nThe Mozart Effect is likely just an artifact of arousal and heightened mood. Arousal is the confounding variable that mediates the relationship between spatial ability and music that defines the Mozart Effect. The \"neural resonance\" theory of Rauscher and colleagues which contends that Mozart's music primes the neural pathways of spatial reasoning has been widely criticized.\n\nGovernment bodies also became involved in analysing the wealth (some 300+ articles as of 2005) of reports. A German report concluded, for instance, that \"... passively listening to Mozart — or indeed any other music you enjoy — does not make you smarter. But more studies should be done to find out whether music lessons could raise your child's IQ in the long term\".\n\nPopular presentations of the \"Mozart effect\", including Alex Ross's comment that \"listening to Mozart actually makes you smarter\" and Zell Miller's \"don't you feel smarter\" query to the Georgia legislature, almost always tie it to \"intelligence.\" Rauscher, one of the original researchers, has disclaimed this idea. In a 1999 reply to an article challenging the effect, published along with the article, she wrote (emphasis added):\nOn efforts like Miller's budget proposal, and the press attention surrounding the effect, Rauscher has said, \"I don't think it can hurt. I'm all for exposing children to wonderful cultural experiences. But I do think the money could be better spent on music education programs.\"\n\nMany scholars in the psychological community now view the claim that playing classical music to children can boost their intelligence to be a \"myth.\" Emory University psychologist Scott Lilienfeld ranks Mozart Effect as number six in his book \"50 Great Myths of Popular Psychology\".\n\nMusic has been evaluated to see if it has other properties. The April 2001 edition of \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" assessed the possible health benefits of the music of Mozart. John Jenkins played Sonata K.448 to patients with epilepsy and found a decrease in epileptiform activity. According to the British Epilepsy Organization, research has suggested that apart from Mozart's K.448 and Piano Concerto No. 23 (K. 488), only one other piece of music has been found to have a similar effect; a song by the Greek composer Yanni, entitled \"Acroyali/Standing in Motion\" (version from \"Yanni Live at the Acropolis performed at the Acropolis\"). It was determined to have the \"Mozart effect\", by the \"Journal of the Royal Society of Medicine\" because it was similar to Mozart's K.448 in tempo, structure, melodic and harmonic consonance and predictability.\n\nWhile it is clear that exposure to Mozart does not raise IQ, studies of the effects of music have explored as diverse areas as its links to seizure onset or research in animals suggesting that even exposure in-utero in rats improves their maze learning The original claim continues to influence public life. For instance a German sewage treatment plant plays Mozart music to break down the waste faster, reports the UK \"Guardian\". Anton Stucki, chief operator of the Treuenbrietzen plant was quoted as saying, \"We think the secret is in the vibrations of the music, which penetrate everything—including the water, the sewage and the cells.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28811922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28811922", "title": "Oberon Press", "text": "Oberon Press\n\nOberon Press is an independent Canadian literary publisher founded in 1966. It focuses mainly on Canadian fiction—particularly short stories—and poetry, but also publishes criticism, history, biography and autobiography.\n\nOberon has published early work by Canadian writers such as David Adams Richards, Wayne Johnston, Peter Behrens, Hugh Hood, David Helwig, bpNichol, George Bowering and W.P. Kinsella. Two short-story anthologies, \"Best Canadian Stories\" and \"Coming Attractions\", feature the work of established and new Canadian writers. Oberon’s national restaurant guide, \"Where to Eat in Canada\", published annually since 1971, has sold more than 150,000 copies.\n\nThe \"Best Canadian Stories\" anthology, now in its fortieth edition, has been edited by David Helwig, John Metcalf, Clark Blaise, Leon Rooke and Douglas Glover, and features the best stories of the preceding year. \"Coming Attractions\", which introduces previously unpublished writers, has appeared annually since 1980. Writers published in \"Coming Attractions\" include Rohinton Mistry, Frances Itani, Lisa Moore, Dennis Bock, Neil Smith, Timothy Taylor, Bonnie Burnard, Sharon Butala, Steven Heighton, Caroline Adderson and Rebecca Rosenblum.\n\nOberon published eight new titles in 2010, and now has 664 titles in print in 1216 editions. Many of Oberon’s books are typeset in the company’s own printshop, using traditional hot-metal techniques. The books are printed on acid-free paper on a sheet-fed offset printing press.\n\nMichael Macklem, the founder and president of Oberon, was awarded the Order of Canada in 2006 in recognition of his work with the press.\n"}
{"id": "506757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506757", "title": "Prix Volney", "text": "Prix Volney\n\nThe Prix Volney () is awarded by the Institute of France after proposition by the Académie des Inscriptions et Belles-Lettres to a work of comparative philology.\n\nThe prize was founded by Constantin Volney in 1803 and was originally a gold medal worth 1,200 francs.\n\n"}
{"id": "52671158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52671158", "title": "Red Umbrella Project", "text": "Red Umbrella Project\n\nThe Red Umbrella Project is a New York based non-profit organization that advocates on behalf of sex workers and strives to empower them by giving them a voice.\n\nThe Red Umbrella Project was founded in 2010 by writer and activist Audacia Ray. As a former sex worker, Ray witnessed first-hand the discrimination against sex workers by police and society. Ray envisioned an organization where sex workers could come together to share their stories, advocate for change and help one another. She chose the name The Red Umbrella Project because in 2001 during the 49th Venice Biennale of Art in Venice, Italy, sex workers demonstrated against inhumane work conditions and human rights violation by holding up red umbrellas, making this a symbol of resistance to discrimination.\n\nIn 2009 Ray started hosting storytelling events for sex workers at the Happy Ending Lounge on New York's Lower East Side. The goals of these workshops and storytelling events were to shine light and empower sex workers, but it soon became apparent that these sex workers shared several common burdens. Many identified as trans or queer, there was an alarming rate of HIV/AIDS cases among them, they feared carrying condoms due to the criminalization of condoms, and most of all they were tossed aside and mistreated by most of society, when all they were doing is trying to make a living and find economic opportunity.\n\nIn 2014 New York City created a series of special courts for sex workers arrested on prostitution-related charges. The new courts, known as Human Trafficking Intervention Courts (HTIC), treated all sex workers as human trafficking victims, and through a variety of bullying tactics forced defendants to forgo their constitutional right of a trial by jury and agree to a plea bargain of a sex worker diversion program which consisted of a court mandated treatment program, followed by adjournment in contemplation of dismissal (ACD). The Red Umbrella Project argued that the city's intentions were good and that the new court does help people who are forced into sex work. However, the court still treats the sex workers like criminals and makes the assumption that all sex workers are victims of human trafficking and that no one does sex work out of free will, for their personal economic gain. There may also be assumed discrimination within the workforce due to the fact that many sex workers are of color, queer or trans. The counseling and assistance offered through the court mandated treatment program provides them with no way of economic opportunity other than sex work. The Red Umbrella Project wants to see the sex-worker diversion program restructured with an emphasis on economic empowerment through job training and economic opportunities.\n\nThe Red Umbrella Project along with the Nation Center for Transgender Equality (NCTE) and Best Practices Policy Project (BPPP) published a report that transgender people in the sex trade are twelve times more likely to be living with HIV/AIDS than transgender people who were never involved in the sex trade and twenty-five times more likely to be living with HIV/AIDS than the general population. The Red Umbrella Project points to the fear of condoms as being used as evidence of prostitution along with profiling of race and gender by police officers where: \"Women and trans people having condoms on them is criminalized, whereas a white cis male having condoms on him is looked at as safe-sex practice.\" \n\nThe Red Umbrella Project and other advocacy groups have been able to push for reform in heavily liberal cities such as New York City, San Francisco and Washington, D.C., but other more conservative cities such as Phoenix use condoms as evidence as part of their anti-prostitution campaign Project Rose.\n\nThe Red Umbrella Diaries started as a monthly story-telling event at the Happy Ending Lounge on New York's Lower East Side that sought to shed the stigma around sex work, make it less isolating and show that it can be both exploitative and empowering\" at the same time. The Red Umbrella Diaries was listed by \"The Village Voice\" as \"The Best Way to Meet Sex Workers (for Free)\", and was listed as \"Best of New York City's Sports and Recreation\" in 2010. \n\nThe monthly event eventually led to a documentary produced by Audacia Ray and multi-Emmy Award-Winning director David Kornfield and funded by the Red Umbrella Project. The documentary featured seven sex workers telling their stories about trading money for sex on the streets of New York City. The documentary premiered at the Portland Film Festival, in Portland, Oregon and at the IFC theater in New York City, and was a Doc NYC official selection.\n\nIn 2012 the Red Umbrella Project started offering memoir writing workshops in New York City which was made possible in part by a grant from Poets & Writers. The peer-facilitated workshops were open to all people with experience in the sex trade and allows sex workers a safe space to build writing skills, share their stories with others, and get feedback from their peers. Attendees of the workshop have the option of having their work published in the Red Umbrella Project's biannual literary journal \"Prose & Lore\", and to share their work on stage as part of their Page to Stage workshop. One participant was Nahshon Anderson, who for eight weeks in 2013 workshopped the first chapter of their nonfiction manuscript Shooting Range that won a 2014 Bronx Recognizes Its Own Award (BRIO), given by the Bronx Council on the Arts.\n\n"}
{"id": "1942520", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1942520", "title": "Rokushō", "text": "Rokushō\n\nRokushō is used to treat a number of metals, including raw natural copper, which holds impurities, purified copper, and copper alloy mixes with two to five metals, to produce irogane metals, including: shakudō, an alloy of copper and gold, which becomes black to dark blue-violet; shibuichi, an alloy of fine silver and copper (in a higher percentage than sterling), which turns grey to misty aquamarine or other shades of blue to green; kuromido which becomes dark coppery black. \n\nRokushō was generally used to patinate all types of mokume-gane (\"wood grain metal\") as well. \n\nAlthough other patination agents can be used on these metals, some artisans prefer the rich colors achieved with traditional rokushō in the niiro process.\n\nThese metals are becoming increasingly popular in high-end artistic jewelry, especially in bi-metals (a layer of the alloy fused to another metal such as sterling). Because rokushō has a dramatically different effect on sterling silver than on the alloys typically fused to it in bi-metals, a common technique in art jewelry is to engrave through the alloy layer in a pattern to reveal the silver underneath prior to patination. This provides a rich contrast in color, highlighting the pattern.\n\nThe formulae for rokushō are not published widely or freely, but passed on in the Japanese craft tradition. However, some scholars have analysed samples of the material. \n\nPremixed rokushō can be purchased outside Japan through specialty jewelry suppliers. Additionally, several different formulas have been proposed to replicate the traditional product for those who prefer to make their own:\n\n\nRokusho is not used alone, but mixed with one or more other chemicals. Further, metal to be processed is cleaned in advance of treatment, using a mild acid bath (oxalic or sulfuric acids are frequently used), scrubbing with daikon radish or pumice, and / or a surface abrasive, and often treated after patination also.\n\n"}
{"id": "8523422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8523422", "title": "Samuel Mauger", "text": "Samuel Mauger\n\nSamuel Mauger (pronounced \"Major\") (12 November 1857 – 26 June 1936) was an Australian social reformer, hat manufacturing unionist and a Protectionist politician.\n\nMauger was born in Geelong, Victoria, son of immigrants from Guernsey, Channel Islands, Samuel Mauger Senior and Caroline \"née\" Liz who migrated to Australia in the 1850s. Mauger junior was educated at the Geelong National School, but left school early to become an errand boy for a hat maker when his father contracted rheumatic fever. Mauger later owned the hat manufacturing business. Mauger was a Bible class teacher at St Mark's Church of England in Fitzroy. He later became the Sunday-school superintendent at St Paul's Congregational Church in North Fitzroy. On 13 May 1880, Mauger married Hanna Rice who he had met at St Mark's; they eventually had four sons and four daughters.\n\nMauger held various memberships to various organisations. He was a superintendent in the Fire Brigades' Association of Victoria and four times president of the Metropolitan Fire Brigades Board. Mauger was one of the founders and secretary of the Anti-Sweating League from 1895. Mauger was on the Board enquiry for unemployment in 1899 and involved in the royal commission of Victorian factories and shops law in 1900.\n\nBeing a devout Christian of the Australian Church, Mauger was president of the Young Men's Christian Association and president of the Melbourne Total Abstinence Society.\n\nMauger attempted to run for politics in various State electorates before becoming a Member of Parliament. He stood for the seat of Fitzroy in 1892, South Melbourne in 1896 and Portland in 1897. In 1899 he was a firefighter in the Melbourne suburb of Richmond. In 1900, Mauger was elected to the Victorian Legislative Assembly seat of Footscray. He held the seat of Footscray until May 1901, where he resigned from State politics and ran for Federal politics. Mauger was the first member for Melbourne Ports in 1901 until his defeat to ALP candidate James Mathews in 1906. Mauger then soon elected to the new Federal seat of Maribyrnong and became the electorate's first Federal Member of Parliament. He was a Minister without a Portfolio from 1906 until 1907 and then Postmaster-General until 1908. Mauger lost his seat of Maribyrnong to ALP candidate James Fenton in 1910.\n\nMauger ran for the Victorian Senate in 1913 and 1914, but failed to get elected. He was an ardent protectionist and was for some time honorary secretary of the protectionists' association of Victoria; he was for a time president of the Melbourne Total Abstinence Society, and chairman of the Indeterminate Sentences Board; and he presumably found some time for his business as a hatter and mercer. For about 50 years in every movement in Melbourne intended to better the conditions of the mass of the people, Mauger was to be found working incessantly and showing much organizing ability.\n\nIn 1934 Mauger wrote a brochure on \"The Rise and Progress of the Metropolitan Fire Brigade, Victoria, Australia\", on page 29 some verses relating to the success of the staff fund illustrate his philosophy of life. Basically it was that if anything is brought forward for the good of humanity, difficulties will vanish if the problem is tackled with sufficient courage.\nMauger died in Elsternwick, Victoria and is buried in the Melbourne General Cemetery. At his funeral, he was given a fire guard honour. Mauger was survived by his wife, two sons and four daughters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23588126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23588126", "title": "Schizophonia", "text": "Schizophonia\n\nSchizophonia is a term coined by R. Murray Schafer to describe the splitting of an original sound and its electroacoustic reproduction. This concept comes from the invention of electroacoustic equipment for the transmission of sound, which meant that any sound could be recorded and sent anywhere around the world. Originally, that was not possible, as every sound was an original and could only be heard once. Schizophonia is the separation of this native sound and the recording of it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38964738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38964738", "title": "Star vs. the Forces of Evil", "text": "Star vs. the Forces of Evil\n\nStar vs. the Forces of Evil is an American animated television series created by Daron Nefcy and developed by Jordana Arkin and Dave Wasson, which airs on Disney XD. The first Disney XD series created by a woman, and the third overall for Disney Television Animation (following \"Pepper Ann\" and \"Doc McStuffins\"), it follows the adventures of Star Butterfly (voiced by Eden Sher), the turbulent young heir to the royal throne in the dimension of Mewni, who is sent to Earth so she can complete her education and learn to be a worthy princess, and Marco Diaz (Adam McArthur), a human teenager who becomes her roommate and best friend, as they live their daily lives, and go on adventures in other dimensions.\n\n\"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" typically follows a format of two 11-minutes long independent \"segments\" per episode. The first episode aired on January 18, 2015 on Disney Channel and became the most-watched animated series debut in Disney XD’s history. The fourth season is to premiere in 2019.\n\nStar Butterfly is a magical princess from the dimension of Mewni, and the heir to the royal throne of the Butterfly Kingdom. As per tradition, she is given the family heirloom wand on her 14th birthday. After she accidentally sets fire to the family castle, her parents King River and Queen Moon Butterfly decide that a safer option is to send her to Earth as a foreign exchange student, so she can continue her magic training there. She befriends Marco Diaz and lives with his family while attending Echo Creek Academy. Going in a series of misadventures using \"dimensional scissors\" that can open portals, Star and Marco must deal with everyday school life while protecting Star's wand from falling into the hands of Ludo, a villain from Mewni who commands a group of monsters. Besides also dealing with her ex-boyfriend Tom, in Season 3, Star goes up against more serious villains like Toffee and Meteora Butterfly while uncovering the mystery behind her relative Eclipsa Butterfly.\n\nNefcy said she originally created Star as a girl who wanted to be a magical girl like \"Sailor Moon\", and Marco as a boy who was obsessed with \"Dragon Ball Z\" and karate; they would be enemies instead of friends. In this earlier version, Star did not have any actual magical powers; she instead would approach and solve problems primarily through the force of her determination alone. Nefcy began pitching the show when she was in her third year of college, when Cartoon Network was actively soliciting the creation of pilots for prospective new shows. Nefcy originally placed Star in the fourth grade, reflecting on a time in her own childhood when she held a self-described obsession with the animated series \"Sailor Moon\". However, Nefcy later adjusted the character's age to fourteen during the time she made her series proposition to Disney. An executive at that time made the suggestion for Star to have actual magical powers. Nefcy worked this concept into the show's current iteration, along with the idea of different dimensions as show locations, the framing device of Star being a foreign exchange student, and the plot aspects relating to Star being a princess and the subsequent consequences of her royal birthright. Nefcy said that the overall concept has evolved over about six years.\n\nIn addition to \"Sailor Moon\" and \"Dragon Ball Z\", Nefcy has said that she had heavy influence in her youth from the animated Japanese shows \"Magic Knight Rayearth\", \"Revolutionary Girl Utena\" and \"Unico\", the last of which featured a pink unicorn. She also cited shows unrelated to Japanese animation such as \"Buffy the Vampire Slayer\", and was influenced by independent comic series such as \"Scott Pilgrim\" and \"The Dungeon\". With regards to the development of more strong female characters, Nefcy said that she \"looked at TV over the years and I have had to go to Japan when I was younger to find the cartoons that had the characters that I wanted to see. It was always a question of 'Well, why isn't that on TV in the U.S.?'\"\n\nOne of the concepts she likes about the show is that it doesn't make high school the most important experience for teenagers. She also likes that Star does her own thing instead of being concerned about fitting in. Nefcy did not want the gimmick about keeping the magic powers a secret from others as typical of magical girl shows, so she had the students already know about it and Marco's parents as well. She also portrays Star as not really a superhero as she does not specifically go after super-villains except when they attack her, and that she doesn't really save people. Nefcy said that the episodes balance comedy and drama: \"we really want our characters to feel like teenagers and have them going through the normal emotions that teenagers go through, but in this magical setting.\"\n\nStoryboarding and design are done in Los Angeles. In describing the process, Nefcy said that the show is storyboard-driven, with each episode mapped out by the storyboard artists. The storyboarders also do the writing, taking a two-page outline and turning it into a full script. A storyboard for 11 minutes would require about 2000 drawings to be done in a six-week period. After pre-production in the US, the first season animation was done at Mercury Filmworks in Ottawa, Canada. Mercury had also done \"Wander Over Yonder\" and the \"Mickey Mouse\" series. For the rest of first season, the animation was done in the Philippines. The second season was animated by Sugarcube and Rough Draft Studios, both located in South Korea.\n\nThe theme song was done by Brad Breeck, who also did \"Gravity Falls\" opening theme; Nefcy said: \"when we were listening to it we didn't know, because we just listened blind\". Brian Kim was chosen among a group of about ten people as the show's composer. Kim describes the music for each dimension as having a different sound and relating it to indie rock in Los Angeles.\n\nThe show was initially scheduled to premiere on Disney Channel after being greenlighted in March 2013, for a premiere in the Fall of 2014, before being switched over to Disney XD. However, on February 23, 2018, it was announced that the show would be moving to Disney Channel for its fourth season.\n\nThe show's title sequence was promoted at Comic-Con 2014 six months prior to its scheduled broadcast premiere. As a result, the footage was uploaded by fans to YouTube who then started generating fan art and fan fiction. The first episode premiered on Disney Channel in January 2015. The positive reaction on social media prompted Disney XD to order a second season of the series in February 2015, six weeks ahead of its launch of the series on Disney XD in March. Disney sitcom actors Olivia Holt and Kelli Berglund participated in promoting the series the weeks before its Disney XD premiere, with Holt dressing up as Star.\n\nThe second season premiered on July 11, 2016, The show's third season was ordered ahead in March 2016. It premiered on July 15, 2017 with a two-hour long television movie entitled \"The Battle for Mewni\" and consisted of the first four episodes. A live chat featuring Star and Marco was aired on Disney XD on July 17. The remaining third-season episodes started airing on November 6, 2017. A fourth season was also ordered ahead of the third season premiere.\n\n\"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" premiered in Canada on the DHX-owned Disney XD on April 6, 2015, and was later moved to the Corus-owned Disney XD on December 1. The series premiered on Disney XD channels in the United Kingdom and Ireland on April 16, 2015, in Australia on August 3, and in the Middle East and Africa on October 5. It also premiered on November 8 on Disney Channel in Southeast Asia. The series premiered on March 6, 2016, as \"Star Butterfly\" in French on Disney La Chaîne in Canada. The show premiered on November 2 on Disney XD in Italy, and on Disney Channel on November 2, 2016.\n\n\"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" has received positive reviews by critics.\n\nKevin Johnson of \"The A.V. Club\" gave the pilot episode a B+, saying that the show was something children could have a lot of fun with, noting how the show follows current trends in western animation \"towards large-eyed characters and quirky visual trends\". Johnson stated that \"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" \"excels on wild, silly, and clever set-pieces to bring the laughs and action\", but expected that adult viewers won't get much out of it. Furthermore, the premiere of \"Star vs. the Forces of Evil\" became the most-watched animated series debut in Disney XD’s history. Following the end of the second season, Disney XD announced it had ordered a fourth season of the show, and that in 2016, \"Star\" and another animated show \"Milo Murphy's Law\" had reached over 100 million consumer views combined across its media platforms.\n\nIn reviewing episodes from the first season, Marcy Cook of \"The Mary Sue\" described the show as a blend of others such as \"Invader Zim\" and a sanitized \"Ren & Stimpy\", with great appeal to tween and teen girls as well some laugh out loud moments for adults. She said, \"[I]t's really cool to see a girl who is into cuteness and rainbows also kick-ass and enjoy it\". Cook was bothered by the short episodes that made the plot seem rushed or underdeveloped. Cook was bugged by Marco's retconned personality from the pilot episode where he was a safety conscious kid to the series where he was a martial arts fight seeker. Caitlin Donovan of entertainment website Epicstream listed it among her top 10 animated series of 2015. She found the first few episodes to be \"a little rough for me, like the show was trying too hard to be funny and weird\", but that the show got better with character development and relationship building, with \"a really dramatic, high-tension finale to the first season\".\n\nThe episode \"Party with a Pony\" was showcased in the Annecy International Animated Film Festival in June 2015.\nA comic book series titled \"Deep Trouble\" was written by storyboarder Zach Marcus and illustrated by character designer Devin Taylor, both of whom are part of the \"Star\" crew. They have been released monthly by Joe Books starting in September 2016. A \"Cinestory\" comic was also developed and released.\n\nThe book \"Star and Marco's Guide to Mastering Every Dimension\", authored by Amber Benson and supervising producer Dominic Bisignano, was released on March 7, 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "72299", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72299", "title": "Tam Lin", "text": "Tam Lin\n\nTam (or Tamas) Lin (also called Tamlane, Tamlin, Tambling, Tomlin, Tam Lien, Tam-a-Line, Tam Lyn, or Tam Lane) is a character in a legendary ballad originating from the Scottish Borders. It is also associated with a reel of the same name, also known as the Glasgow Reel. The story revolves around the rescue of Tam Lin by his true love from the Queen of the Fairies. The motif of capturing a person by holding him through all forms of transformation is found throughout Europe in folktales.\n\nThe story has been adapted into numerous stories, songs and films.\n\nMost variants begin with the warning that Tam Lin collects either a possession or the virginity of any maiden who passes through the forest of Carterhaugh. When a young woman, usually called Janet or Margaret, goes to Carterhaugh and plucks a double rose, Tam appears and asks her why she has come without his leave and taken what is his. She states that she owns Carterhaugh because her father has given it to her. \n\nIn most variants, Janet then goes home and discovers that she is pregnant; some variants pick up the story at this point. When asked about her condition, she declares that her baby's father is an elf whom she will not forsake. In some versions, she is informed of a herb that will induce abortion; in all the variants, when she returns to Carterhaugh and picks a plant, either the same roses as on her earlier visit or the herb, Tam reappears and challenges her action.\n\nShe asks him whether he was ever human, either after that reappearance or, in some versions, immediately after their first meeting resulted in her pregnancy. He reveals that he was a mortal man, who, falling from his horse, was caught and captured by the Queen of Fairies. Every seven years, the fairies give one of their people as a teind (tithe) to Hell and Tam fears he will become the tithe that night, which is Hallowe'en. He is to ride as part of a company of elven knights. Janet will recognise him by the white horse upon which he rides and by other signs. He instructs her to rescue him by pulling him down from the white horse - so Janet \"catches\" him this time - and holds him tightly. He warns her that the fairies will attempt to make her drop him by turning him into all manner of beasts (see Proteus), but that he will do her no harm. When he is finally turned into a burning coal, she is to throw him into a well, whereupon he will reappear as a naked man, and she must hide him. Janet does as she is asked and wins her knight. The Queen of Fairies is angry but acknowledges defeat.\n\nIn different variations, Tam Lin is reportedly the grandson of the Laird of Roxburgh, the Laird of Foulis, the Earl of Forbes, or the Earl of Murray. His name also varies between versions (Tam Lin being the most common) as Tom Line, Tomlin, Young Tambling, Tam-a-line and Tamlane.\n\nThe ballad dates to at least as early as 1549 (the publication date of \"The Complaynt of Scotland\" that mentions \"The Tayl of the Ȝong Tamlene\" ('The Tale of the Young Tamelene') among a long list of medieval romances).\n\nThere have been several interpretations of the Tam Lin story:\n\n\nChild took the threat to take out Tam Lin's eyes as a common folklore precaution against mortals who could see fairies, in the tales of fairy ointment. Joseph Jacobs interpreted it as rather a reversal of the usual practice; the Queen of Faerie would have kept him from seeing the human woman who rescued him.\n\nIn some variants, \"Hind Etin\" has verses identical to this for the first meeting between the hero and heroine.\n\nFollowing are some of the notable recordings of the ballad, including their artists, titles, albums, and years:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3732063", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3732063", "title": "Tam o' Shanter (poem)", "text": "Tam o' Shanter (poem)\n\n\"Tam o' Shanter\" is a narrative poem written by the Scottish poet Robert Burns in 1790, while living in Dumfries. First published in 1791, it is one of Burns' longer poems, and employs a mixture of Scots and English.\n\nThe poem describes the habits of Tam, a farmer who often gets drunk with his friends in a public house in the Scottish town of Ayr, and his thoughtless ways, specifically towards his wife, who is waiting at home for him, angry. At the conclusion of one such late-night revel after a market day, Tam rides home on his horse Meg while a storm is brewing. On the way he sees the local haunted church lit up, with witches and warlocks dancing and the Devil playing the bagpipes. He is still drunk, still upon his horse, just on the edge of the light, watching, amazed to see the place bedecked with many gruesome things such as gibbet irons and knives that had been used to commit murders and other macabre artifacts. The witches are dancing as the music intensifies and, upon seeing one particularly wanton witch in a short dress he loses his reason and shouts, 'Weel done, cutty-sark!' (\"cutty-sark\": short shirt). Immediately, the lights go out, the music and dancing stops and many of the creatures lunge after Tam, with the witches leading. Tam spurs Meg to turn and flee and drives the horse on towards the River Doon as the creatures dare not cross a running stream. The creatures give chase and the witches come so close to catching Tam and Meg that they pull Meg's tail off just as she reaches the Brig o' Doon.\n\nThe poem begins:\nWhen chapman billies leave the street,<br>\nAnd neibors, neibors, meet;<br>\nAs market days are wearing late,<br>\nAnd folk begin to tak the gate,<br>\nWhile we sit bousing at the nappy,<br>\nAn' getting fou and happy,<br>\nWe think na on the lang Scots miles,<br>\nThe mosses, waters, slaps and stiles,<br>\nThat lie between us and our hame,<br>\nWhere sits our sulky, sullen dame,<br>\nGathering her brows like gathering storm,<br>\nNursing her wrath to keep it warm.<br>\nAfter Burns has located us geographically:\n(Auld Ayr, wham ne'er a town surpasses,<br>\nFor honest men and bonnie lasses).\n(a quote that gave Ayr United F.C. their nickname \"the honest men\"), Tam sits and drinks with his friends, and the reader is regaled with a dark prophecy of Tam's wife Kate:\nShe prophesied that late or soon,<br>\nThou wad be found, deep drown'd in Doon,<br>\nOr catch'd wi' warlocks in the mirk,<br>\nBy Alloway's auld, haunted kirk.<br>\nTam's wife, Kate, is portrayed as an authority to be feared. Then:\nAh, gentle dames! it gars me greet,<br>\nTo think how mony counsels sweet,<br>\nHow mony lengthen'd, sage advices,<br>\nThe husband frae the wife despises!<br>\nTam continues to drink and even flirts with the landlady of the pub. Eventually he mounts up and rides off on his grey mare Meg, for his long, dark, lonely ride home. Burns emphasises the spooky character of the Ayrshire countryside Tam has to ride through—but of course it is much easier as he is drunk:\nInspiring bold John Barleycorn!<br>\nWhat dangers thou canst make us scorn!<br>\nWi' tippenny, we fear nae evil;<br>\nWi' usquabae, we'll face the devil!<br>\n\nWith the scene set, suddenly: \"wow! Tam saw an unco sight!\"\n\nThe sight he sees is Alloway Kirk, ablaze with light, where a weird hallucinatory dance involving witches and warlocks, open coffins, and even the Devil himself is in full swing. The scene is bedecked in morbidly enthusiastic gothic detail. Tam manages to watch silently until, the dancing witches having cast off most of their clothes, he is beguiled by one particularly comely female witch, Nannie, whose shirt (cutty-sark) is too small for her. He cannot help shouting out in passion:\nWeel done, Cutty-sark!\n\nAnd in an instant all was dark:\nThe Devil decides to chase Tam, but the evident pride in the ability of his horse is justified as she is able to help him to \"win the key-stone o' the brig\". (The Devil, witches and warlocks cannot cross running water.)\n\nThey only just make it though, as Nannie, first among the \"hellish legion\" chasing, grabs the horse's tail, which comes off.\nIn fine, tongue-in-cheek moralistic mode, the poem concludes:\nNow, wha this tale o' truth shall read,<br>\nIlk man and mother's son, take heed:<br>\nWhene'er to Drink you are inclin'd,<br>\nOr Cutty-sarks rin in your mind,<br>\nThink ye may buy the joys o'er dear;<br>\nRemember Tam o' Shanter's mare<br>\n\nThe poem first appeared in the \"Edinburgh Herald\" and the \"Edinburgh Magazine\" in March 1791, a month before it appeared in the second volume of Francis Grose's \"Antiquities of Scotland\", for which it was written. Robert Riddell introduced Burns to Grose, and according to Gilbert Burns, the poet asked the antiquarian to include a drawing of Alloway Kirk when he came to Ayrshire; Grose agreed, as long as Burns gave him something to print alongside it.\n\nBurns wrote to Grose in June 1790, giving him three witch stories associated with Alloway Kirk, two of which he said were \"authentic\", the third, \"though equally true, being not so well identified as the two former with regard to the scene\". The second of the stories was, in fact, Tam o' Shanter. This is Burns' prose sketch of it to Grose:\n\nThus began what was to be one of Burns' most sustained poetic efforts.\n\nThe story that the poem was written in a day was perpetrated by John Gibson Lockhart, aided by Allan Cunningham. Its subtle nuances of tempo, pace and tone suggest that it had been given, as Burns told Mrs Dunlop on 11 April 1791, \"a finishing polish that I despair of ever excelling\".\n\nBurns based the character of Tam O'Shanter on Douglas Graham (1739–1811), a friend who lived at Shanter Farm, about half a mile (0.8 km) inland from the fishing village of Maidens in South Ayrshire, near Kirkoswald.\n\nAn early version of the poem includes four lines that were deleted at the request of one of Burns' friends. The poem originally contained the lines:\n\nA handwritten note on the manuscript written by Judge Alexander Fraser Tytler, reads \"Burns left out these four lines at my desire, as being incongruous with the other circumstances of pure horror.\" Burns had the lines removed from later editions; it was not unknown for Burns to make changes at the request of friends.\n\nThe Tam o' Shanter cap is named after the poem.\n\nLady Ada Lovelace named her beloved if \"very wild and ... quite vicious\" stallion Tom O'Shanter.\n\nGeorge Métivier published \"Tam au Sabbat\", a Guernésiais version of Burns' poem, in \"La Gazette de Guernesey\" in 1855. This version was included in his collection \"Fantaisies guernesiaises\" in 1866.\n\nIn 1899, the town of Barre, Vermont erected a memorial to Burns in local granite, including a panel depicting a scene from the poem. \n\nIn 1915, the American composer George Whitefield Chadwick completed a symphonic poem inspired by the poem.\n\nIn 1955, British composer Malcolm Arnold's Overture Op. 51a was named \"Tam o' Shanter\" after Burns' poem.\n\nIn the 1990s, Scottish figurative painter Alexander Goudie worked at a cycle of 54 large format paintings dedicated to Robert Burns' poem, currently displayed at Rozelle House Galleries, near Burns' home at Alloway, Ayrshire.\n\nThe Tam O' Shanter Urban Cottage on Bidston Hill, Wirral, Merseyside was named after the poem in 1837 after being built beyond a stream which was said to repel witches. It attracts both Robert Burns fans and local witches and Wicca historians.\n\nThe Tam O'Shanter Inn in Glendale, California was named after the Robert Burns poem and was established in 1922 by the Van de Kamp bakery family. As of 2017, it is Los Angeles' oldest restaurant operated by the same family in the same location. It was Walt Disney's favorite restaurant.\n\n\"The Number of the Beast\" by Iron Maiden is loosely based on the poem.\n\n\nCitations\nBibliography\n\n"}
{"id": "87715", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=87715", "title": "That Was the Week That Was", "text": "That Was the Week That Was\n\nThat Was the Week That Was, informally TWTWTW or TW3, was a satirical television comedy programme on BBC Television in 1962 and 1963. It was devised, produced and directed by Ned Sherrin and presented by David Frost. An American version by the same name aired on NBC from 1964 to 1965, also featuring Frost.\n\nThe programme is considered a significant element of the satire boom in the UK in the early 1960s. It broke ground in comedy through lampooning the establishment and political figures. Its broadcast coincided with coverage of the politically charged Profumo affair and John Profumo, the politician at the centre of the affair became a target for derision. TW3 was first broadcast on Saturday, 24 November 1962.\n\nCast members included cartoonist Timothy Birdsall, political commentator Bernard Levin, and actors Lance Percival, who sang topical calypsos, many improvised to suggestions from the audience, Kenneth Cope, Roy Kinnear, Willie Rushton, Al Mancini, Robert Lang, David Kernan and Millicent Martin. The last two were also singers and the programme opened with a song – \"That Was The Week That Was\" – sung by Martin to Ron Grainer's theme tune and enumerating topics in the news. Frankie Howerd also guested with stand-up comedy.\n\nScript-writers included John Albery, John Antrobus, John Betjeman, John Bird, Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Peter Cook, Roald Dahl, Richard Ingrams, Lyndon Irving, Gerald Kaufman, Frank Muir, David Nobbs, Denis Norden, Bill Oddie, Dennis Potter, Eric Sykes, Kenneth Tynan, and Keith Waterhouse.\n\nThe programme opened with a song (\"That was the week that was, It's over, let it go ...\") sung by Millicent Martin, referring to news of the week just gone. Lance Percival sang a topical calypso each week. Satirical targets, such as Prime Minister Harold Macmillan and Home Secretary Henry Brooke were lampooned in sketches, debates and monologues. Some other targets included the monarchy, the British Empire, nuclear deterrence, advertising, public relations and propaganda, capital punishment, sexual and social hypocrisy, the class system, and the BBC itself. Well-remembered sketches include a controversial 'consumers' guide to religion', which discussed relative merits of faiths in the manner of a \"Which?\" magazine report, which received controversy from religious figures at the time.\n\nThe programme was not party political but did not treat all issues with what the producers considered to be a false level of impartiality and balance; one example of this is the issue of racism and \"the evils of apartheid\", following the view of BBC Director-General Sir Hugh Greene that the BBC should not be bound by its charter to be impartial on issues of racism, which Greene and the producers of \"TW3\" viewed as \"quite simply wrong\". Following the 1963 murder of 35-year-old white postal worker William Lewis Moore in Alabama, who was on a protest march against segregation in the American South, \"TW3\" Millicent Martin dressed as Uncle Sam sang a parody of \"I Wanna Go Back to Mississippi\" (\"... where the Mississippi mud/kinda mingles with the blood/of the niggers who are hanging from the branches of the tree ...\") accompanied by minstrel singers in blackface (\"... we hate all the darkies and the Catholics and the Jews / Where we welcome any man / Who is strong and white and belongs to the Ku Klux Klan\"), thus parodying \"The Black and White Minstrel Show\", which was then being shown on the BBC despite accusations of racism over its use of blackface.\n\nOn Saturday, 20 October 1962 the award of Nobel prizes to John Kendrew and Max Perutz, and to Francis Crick, James D. Watson, and Maurice Wilkins was satirised in a short sketch with the prizes referred to as the Alfred Nobel Peace Pools; in this sketch Watson was called \"Little J.D. Watson\" and \"Who'd have thought he'd ever get the Nobel Prize? Makes you think, doesn't it\". The germ of the joke was that Watson was only 25 when he helped discover DNA; much younger than the others.\n\n\"TW3\" was broadcast on Saturday night and attracted an audience of 12 million. It often under- or overran as cast and crew worked through material as they saw fit. At the beginning of the second season in the autumn of 1963, in an attempt to assert control over the programme, the BBC scheduled repeats of \"The Third Man\" television series after the end of \"TW3\". Frost suggested a means of sabotaging this tactic to Sherrin, and he agreed. For three weeks, Frost read out the plot of \"The Third Man\", until the repeats were abandoned following the direct intervention of Greene.\n\nFrost often ended a satirical attack with the remark \"But seriously, he's doing a grand job\". At the end of each episode, Frost usually signed off with: \"That \"was\" the week, that was.\" At the end of the final programme he announced: \"That \"was\" \"That Was The Week That Was\"...that was.\"\n\nFor the edition on Saturday, 23 November 1963, the day after the assassination of United States President John F. Kennedy, \"TW3\" produced a shortened 20-minute programme with no satire, reflecting on the loss, including a contribution from Dame Sybil Thorndike and the tribute song \"In the Summer of His Years\" sung by Martin with lyrics by Herbert Kretzmer. This edition was screened on NBC in the US the following day, and the soundtrack was released by Decca Records. A clip, featuring Roy Kinnear, was shown in the David L. Wolper documentary film \"Four Days in November\" and on the History Channel 2009 documentary \"JFK: 3 Shots that Changed America\". In addition to the Millicent Martin studio recording of \"In the Summer of His Years\" issued in the US by ABC-Paramount, other versions were recorded and released by Connie Francis (MGM), Mahalia Jackson (Columbia), Kate Smith (RCA Victor), Sarah Vaughan (Vernon) and The Chad Mitchell Trio (Mercury); the Francis recording became a Top 40 hit on the Cash Box pop singles chart in January 1964. BBC presenter Richard Dimbleby, who broadcast the president's funeral from Washington, said the regular programme was scrapped when news of the assassination was received and that the programme was a good expression of the sorrow felt in Britain.\n\nAfter two successful series in 1962 and 1963, the programme did not return in 1964. The reason given by the BBC was that 1964 was an election year and political material could compromise the corporation's impartiality.\n\nPrime Minister Harold Macmillan was initially supportive, chastising the Postmaster General Reginald Bevins for threatening to \"do something about it\". However, the BBC received many complaints from organisations and establishment figures. Lord Aldington, vice-chairman of the Conservative Party, wrote to the BBC's director-general Hugh Carleton Greene that Frost had a \"hatred\" of the Prime Minister, which \"he finds impossible to control\". The programme also attracted complaints from the Boy Scout Association, upset by an item questioning the sexuality of its founder Lord Baden-Powell, and the government of Cyprus, which claimed that a joke about Archbishop Makarios, the country's ruler, was a \"gross violation of internationally accepted ethics\".\n\nHistorians have identified \"TW3\" as breaking ground in comedy and broadcasting. Graham McCann said it challenged the \"convention that television should not acknowledge that it is television; the show made no attempt to hide its cameras, allowed the microphone boom to intrude and often revealed other nuts and bolts of studio technology.\" In the 1960s, this was unusual and gave the programme an exciting, modern feel. \"TW3\" also flouted conventions by adopting \"a relaxed attitude to its running time: loosely structured and open-ended, it seemed to last just as long as it wanted and needed to last, even if that meant going beyond the advertised time for the ending [...] the real controversy of course, was caused by the content.\"\n\nIts subject matter has also been praised. McCann says: \"\"TW3\"...did its research, thought its arguments through and seemed unafraid of anything or anyone... Every hypocrisy was highlighted and each contradiction was held up for sardonic inspection. No target was deemed out of bounds: royalty was reviewed by republicans; rival religions were subjected to no-nonsense 'consumer reports'; pompous priests were symbolically defrocked; corrupt businessmen, closet bigots and chronic plagiarists were exposed; and topical ideologies were treated to swingeing critiques.\"\n\n\"TW3\" was live and recordings were not made of all editions, although only two editions are missing; the first pilot, and the 13 April 1963 edition. A compilation of surviving material was shown on BBC Four to celebrate the 40th anniversary. In a list of the 100 Greatest British Television Programmes up by the British Film Institute in 2000, voted by industry professionals, \"That Was The Week That Was\" placed 29th.\n\nSherrin attempted to revive the formula with \"Not So Much a Programme, More a Way of Life\" but was less successful.\n\nAn American version was on NBC, initially as a pilot episode on 10 November 1963, then as a series from 10 January 1964 to May 1965. The pilot featured Henry Fonda and Henry Morgan, guests Mike Nichols and Elaine May, and supporting performers including Gene Hackman. The recurring cast included Frost, Morgan, Buck Henry and Alan Alda, with Nancy Ames singing the opening song and Stanley Grover and Ames performing solos and duets; regular contributors included Gloria Steinem, William F. Brown, Tom Lehrer and Calvin Trillin. The announcer was Jerry Damon. Also a guest was Woody Allen, performing stand-up comedy; the guest star on the final broadcast was Steve Allen. A running gag was a mock feud with Jack Paar, whose own programme followed \"TW3\" on the NBC Friday schedule; Paar repeatedly referred to \"TW3\" as \"Henry Morgan's Amateur Hour\".\n\nThe American version is largely a lost program, although the pilot survives and was donated to the Library of Congress by a collector. Amateur audio recordings of most episodes also survive. After the series' cancellation, Lehrer recorded a collection of his songs used on the show, \"That Was The Year That Was\", released by Reprise Records in September 1965.\n\nIn the American version, an episode showed a smiling U.S. President Lyndon B. Johnson contemplating an easy 1964 campaign against the Republican nominee, U.S. Senator Barry M. Goldwater of Arizona. The satirists sang that Goldwater could not win because he \"does not know the dance of the liberal Republicans\", then a substantial component of the GOP, many of whose members had supported Governor Nelson A. Rockefeller of New York for the Republican nomination.\n\nOn April 21, 1985 in the United States, the ABC network aired \"That Was The Week That Was\" as a special, hosted by David Frost (also serving as an executive producer) and Anne Bancroft, and featuring future \"Saturday Night Live\" cast members Jan Hooks and A. Whitney Brown and puppetry from \"Spitting Image\".\n\nKristy Glass and Kevin Ruf starred in a remake of \"TW3\" for ABC's \"Primetime Live\" in the fall of 2004. Soon after its premiere, Shelley Ross, the executive producer, was fired and \"TW3\" ended with her dismissal.\n\nA Canadian show, \"This Hour Has Seven Days\", aired from 1964 to 1966 on CBC. Although partially inspired by \"That Was The Week That Was\", the Canadian show mixed satirical aspects with more serious journalism. It proved controversial and was cancelled after two series amid allegations of political interference. \"This Hour Has 22 Minutes\", created by Newfoundland comic Mary Walsh, has been running since 1992 although the two are not related.\n\nAn Australian show, \"The Mavis Bramston Show\", aired from 1964 to 1968 on the Seven Network. It grew out of the recent local theatrical tradition of topical satirical revue—most notably the popular revues staged at Sydney's Phillip Street Theatre in the 1950s and 1960s—but it was also strongly influenced by the British satire boom and especially \"TW3\" and \"Not Only... But Also\".\n\nThe New Zealand show \"A Week Of It\" ran from 1977 to 1979, hosted by Ken Ellis, and featuring comedians David McPhail, Peter Rowley and Chris McVeigh and comedian/musicians Jon Gadsby and Annie Whittle. The series lampooned news and politics and featured songs, usually by McPhail and Gadsby, who continued with their own show, \"McPhail and Gadsby\" in similar vein.\n\nA Dutch version, \"Zo is het toevallig ook nog 's een keer\", aired from November 1963 to 1966. It became controversial after the fourth edition, which included a parody of the Lord's Prayer (\"Give us this day our daily television\"). Angry viewers directed their protests especially against the most popular cast member: Mies Bouwman. After receiving several threats to her life she decided to quit the show. The show was praised as well: in 1966 it received the Gouden Televizier-ring, a prestigious audience award—though it turned out afterward that the election was rigged.\n\nAn Indian version titled \"The Week That Wasn't\" was launched and hosted by Cyrus Broacha.\n\nCleveland, Ohio, local personality Ghoulardi (played by Ernie Anderson), host of WJW-TV's \"Shock Theater\" in the 1960s, ran clips of local celebrities and politicians and satirised them in a \"Shock Theater\" segment entitled \"That Was Weak Wasn't It?\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4595808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4595808", "title": "The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster", "text": "The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster\n\nThe Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster is a satirical book written by Bobby Henderson that embodies the main beliefs of the religion of the Church of the Flying Spaghetti Monster or Pastafarianism. The Flying Spaghetti Monster (FSM) was created by Bobby Henderson in an open letter to the Kansas State Board of Education in which he parodied the concept of intelligent design. After Henderson posted the letter on his website, it became an internet phenomenon and was featured in many large newspapers, which caught the attention of book publishers. Released in March 2006 by Villard Books, \"The Gospel\" elaborates on Pastafarian beliefs established in the open letter.\n\n\"The Gospel\" includes a creation myth, set of eight \"I'd Really Rather You Didn'ts\", and guide to evangelizing, and discusses history and lifestyle from a Pastafarian perspective. Henderson uses satire to show flaws with creationism and prove the Flying Spaghetti Monster, offering an alternative to the intelligent design movement in the process. The book, which has sold more than 100,000 copies, was generally well received.\n\nIn 2005, Bobby Henderson, then a 24-year-old Oregon State University physics graduate, parodied the concept of intelligent design by professing belief in a Flying Spaghetti Monster in an open letter to the Kansas State Board of Education. He sent the letter prior to the Kansas evolution hearings as a satirical protest against the teaching of intelligent design in biology classes. In his letter, he noted,\n\nIn May, having received no reply from the Kansas State Board of Education, Henderson posted the letter on his website. Shortly thereafter, Pastafarianism became an internet phenomenon. As public awareness grew, the mainstream media picked up on the phenomenon. The Flying Spaghetti Monster became a symbol for the case against intelligent design in public education. The open letter was printed in many large newspapers, including \"The New York Times\", \"The Washington Post\", and \"Chicago Sun Times\", and received \"worldwide press attention\" according to one journalist.\n\nAccording to Henderson, newspaper articles attracted the attention of book publishers; at one point, six publishers were interested in the Flying Spaghetti Monster. In November 2005, Henderson received an $80,000 advance from Villard to write \"The Gospel of The Flying Spaghetti Monster\". Henderson said that he planned to use the proceeds to build a pirate ship, with which he would spread the Pastafarian religion. The book was released on March 28, 2006.\n\n\"The Gospel\" presents the tenets of Pastafarianism—often satires of creationism—elaborating on the \"beliefs\" established in the open letter. It includes a creation-myth, a \"propaganda\" guide for evangelizing, some pseudo-scientific \"proofs\", and several pasta puns. Along with crude drawings and altered stock photography, Henderson employs irony to present perceived flaws with evolution and discusses history and lifestyle from a Pastafarian perspective. The book also provides a Pastafarian \"Guide to the Holidays.\" Furthermore, Henderson discusses the original Pastafarian \"belief\" that the decline in the number of pirates, who are revered by Pastafarians, has directly led to a rise in global temperature. He provides further \"evidence\" of this relationship with the observation \"that many people dress up as pirates for Halloween, and the months following October 31 are generally cooler than those that precede it.\" This and other scientific claims made by Henderson are intended to be disputed. The claim that declining numbers of pirates have resulted in rising temperatures is meant to demonstrate that correlation does not imply causation.\n\nThe book urges readers to try Pastafarianism for 30 days, saying, \"If you don't like us, your old religion will most likely take you back.\" Henderson states on his website that more than 100,000 copies of the book have been sold.\n\n\"The Gospel\" begins with the creation of the universe by an invisible and undetectable Flying Spaghetti Monster. On the first day, the Flying Spaghetti Monster separated the water from the heavens; on the second, because He could not tread water for long and had grown tired of flying, He created the land—complemented by a beer volcano. Satisfied, the Flying Spaghetti Monster overindulged in beer from the beer volcano and woke up hungover. Between drunken nights and clumsy afternoons, the Flying Spaghetti Monster produced seas and land (for a second time, accidentally, because he forgot that he created it the day before) along with Heaven and a \"midgit\", which he named Man. Man and an equally short woman lived happily in the Olive Garden of Eden for some time until the Flying Spaghetti Monster caused a global flood in a cooking accident.\n\nThis creation, \"claimed\" by Pastafarians to be only 5,000 years ago, would be considered laughable by many scientists. To this, Henderson satirically retorts that the Flying Spaghetti Monster presented all evidence to the contrary in order to test Pastafarians' faith. In addition to parodying certain biblical literalists, Henderson uses this unorthodox method to lampoon intelligent design proponents, whom he believes first \"define [their] conclusion and then gather evidence to support it\".\n\nThe book contains the Eight \"I'd Really Rather You Didn'ts\", adherence to which enables Pastafarians to ascend to heaven, which includes a stripper factory and beer volcano. According to \"The Gospel\", Mosey the Pirate captain received ten stone tablets as advice from the Flying Spaghetti Monster. Of these original ten \"I'd Really Rather You Didn'ts\", two were dropped on the way down from Mount Salsa. This event \"partly accounts for Pastafarians' flimsy moral standards.\" The \"I'd Really Rather You Didn'ts\" address a broad array of behavior, from sexual conduct to nutrition. One reviewer commented that this parody of the Ten Commandments \"reads like a bitter shopping list of the same criticisms\" given to organized religions. One commandment is \"I'd really rather you didn't build multimillion-dollar synagogues / churches / temples / mosques / shrines to [His] Noodly Goodness when the money could be better spent ending poverty, curing diseases, living in peace, loving with passion and lowering the cost of cable.\"\n\nIn 2015 \"The Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster\" was translated into Russian by Mikhail Samin. In 2016 it was printed.\n\nA German translation by Jörn Ingwersen also exists : \"Das Evangelium des fliegenden Spaghettimonsters\" december 2008, ISBN 978-344254262, published by Goldmann.\n\nIn French: \"L'Évangile du Monstre en spaghettis volant\" translation by Diniz GALHOS, published by Le Cherche Midi in march 2008 [note the s plural in spaghetti, an error of the French publisher]\n\n\"Scientific American\" described \"The Gospel\" as \"an elaborate spoof on Intelligent Design\" and \"very funny\". In 2006, it was nominated for the Quill Award in Humor but did not win. Wayne Alan Brenner of \"The Austin Chronicle\" characterized the book as \"a necessary bit of comic relief in the overly serious battle between science and superstition.\" Simon Singh of the \"Daily Telegraph\" wrote that the Gospel \"might be slightly repetitive... but overall it is a brilliant, provocative, witty and important gem of a book.\" Reviewers at both the University of Pittsburgh and Penn State were generally positive about the book. In his book \"The God Delusion\", biologist Richard Dawkins commented: \"I am happy to see that the \"Gospel of the Flying Spaghetti Monster\" has been published as a book, to great acclaim.\" Meanwhile, Casey Luskin of the Discovery Institute, the hub of the Intelligent Design movement, labeled the Gospel \"a mockery of the Christian New Testament\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18481737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18481737", "title": "The Hopkins Review", "text": "The Hopkins Review\n\n\"The Hopkins Review\" is a quarterly academic journal that publishes fiction, poetry, memoirs, essays on literature, drama, film, the visual arts, music, dance, and reviews of books in all these areas, as well as reviews of performances and exhibits. The original \"Hopkins Review\" was a literary quarterly published by the Johns Hopkins Writing Seminars from 1947 to 1953. It was brought back in 2008 in a joint venture between the Writing Seminars and the Johns Hopkins University Press. The current editor-in-chief is David Yezzi.\n\n"}
{"id": "33654367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33654367", "title": "Truth prevails", "text": "Truth prevails\n\n\"Truth prevails\" (, , ) is the national motto of the Czech Republic. The motto appears on the standard of the President of the Czech Republic, which the Czech Constitution designates a national symbol. Before the dissolution of Czechoslovakia in 1993, the motto was the motto of Czechoslovakia and appeared on the standard of the President of Czechoslovakia as well.\n\nThe motto is believed to be derived from Jan Hus' phrase \"Seek the truth, hear the truth, learn the truth, love the truth, speak the truth, hold the truth and defend the truth until death\". The phrase thus appears along the base of the Jan Hus Memorial in Prague. Tomáš Garrigue Masaryk, the first President of Czechoslovakia, adopted the shortened phrase \"truth prevails\" as a presidential motto shortly after independence from Austria-Hungary in 1918. The sentiment was echoed over 75 years later in Václav Havel's notion of \"life in truth\" and in his famous statement \"Truth and love must prevail over lies and hatred\" (). The Latin version \"Veritas vincit\" was in use on the presidential banner from 1990 to 1992 as a linguistically neutral compromise reached between the Czech and Slovak political representation.\n\nThe concept of truth has a long tradition in Czech political thought. Jan Hus and John Amos Comenius connected the truth with theological aspects, while in Masaryk's ethical concepts truth was seen as the opposite of lie. Hus' credo traditionally had been seen as testifying the moral and spiritual, rather than physical and military strength. The Charter 77 movement had the motto \"Truth prevails for those who live in truth\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2516841", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2516841", "title": "US Open Series", "text": "US Open Series\n\nThe US Open Series is the name given by the United States Tennis Association (USTA) for a series of North American professional tennis tournaments leading up to and including the US Open. It is also often referred to as the U.S. or North American hard court season. Emirates currently sponsors the series, under a deal in place from 2012 to 2018.\n\nThe series was initially organized in 2004 as a way to focus more attention on American tennis tournaments by getting more of them on domestic television. Until 2004, most summer North American tournaments were not on television, the exceptions being the prominent ATP World Tour Masters 1000 events in Canada and Cincinnati.\n\nUnder the US Open's broadcast rights, ESPN holds rights to all US Open Series events since 2015. The eight non-Masters tournaments receive about 50 hours of television combined – about two hours on each day of their final weekends, chiefly on ESPN2. The dual-gender Washington D.C. Citi Open (the only ATP 500-level tournament in North America), which had been a part of the series since its 2004 founding, withdrew from the series after the 2015 edition due to frustrations over the lack of linear television coverage it received under ESPN (with the majority of the tournament relegated to ESPN3 streaming); that tournament sold its exclusive coverage to Tennis Channel. \n\nPlayers earn points for the US Open Series Bonus Challenge in order to win a bonus on top of the individual series tournaments' prize money, according to their results in these events. More points are awarded at some of the events, such as the ATP World Tour Masters 1000 and WTA Premier 5 events. The three male and three female players with the most points in the US Open Series Bonus Challenge earn a money purse. The amount depends on their US Open Series placement and US Open result. If both are won then the bonus is $1 million as of 2010.\n\nLleyton Hewitt and Lindsay Davenport were the top point-getters in 2004, Andy Roddick and Kim Clijsters won in 2005, and Andy Roddick and Ana Ivanovic won in 2006. Defending US Open champions Roger Federer and Maria Sharapova won in 2007.\n\nIn 2005, whereas Roddick was upset in the first round against Gilles Müller at the Open, Clijsters became the first player to win both the US Open Series and the US Open, receiving $2.2 million, at the time the largest payday in women's sports. Clijsters defeated Frenchwoman Mary Pierce in straight sets: 6–3, 6–1. In 2010 she won $2.2 million again, this time $1.7 million for the US Open title and $500,000 in bonus for second place in the US Open Series.\n\nIn 2007, Federer became the first male player and the second player overall to win the US Open Series and go on to win the US Open, winning $1.4 million plus the US Open Series bonus of $1 million, bringing his prize winning total to $2.4 million. This topped Clijsters' $2.2 million as the biggest US Open payday to date.\n\nIn 2013, Serena Williams and Rafael Nadal both won the US Open after also winning the US Open Series. Due to several considerable prize money increments over the years, Serena Williams and Rafael Nadal surpassed Roger Federer's Us Open series payday record by winning $3.6 million each, and they shared the record for the largest prize money paycheck in tennis history for a single tennis tournament.\nIn 2014, Serena Williams would repeat her previous year performance in winning both the US Open Series and the US Open. She now stands alone in the record for the biggest payday in tennis history, with a total amount of $4 million.\n\nThe 2017 US Open Series did not feature a Bonus Challenge.\n\nIn 2018, the \"US Open Series\" comprises the following tournaments:\n\nNote: From 2006 on, only players who earned points in at least two US Open Series events are eligible for the final (Top 3) standings.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33703952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33703952", "title": "Underground education", "text": "Underground education\n\nUnderground education, or clandestine education refers to various practices of teaching carried out at times and places where such educational activities were deemed illegal.\n\nExamples of places where widespread clandestine education practices took place included education of Blacks during the Slave Period in the USA and the Secret Teaching Organization in Poland under the Nazis.\n\nThere is a Greek - mostly oral - tradition claiming that secret schools (\"Krifo scholio\") operated during the Ottoman period. There is scant written evidence for this and many historians view it as a national myth. Others believe that the Greek secret school is a legend with a core of truth. According to certain sources, secret schools for Albanians operated in late 19th century by Albanian-speaking communities and Bektashi priests under Ottoman rule.\nIn Lithuania, clandestine schools (\"Slaptoji mokykla\") operated almost in every village, at the end of 19th and beginning of 20th century, because of the suppresion of Lithuanian language by the tsarist Russian government. \n\nSecret schooling was organized in Jewish Ghettos during the Nazi regime and the German occupation in Europe. During the Taliban rule in various parts of Afghanistan (late 20th, early 21st c.), secret schools operated, mostly for women and girls. In 1930's and '40's, the authoritarian nationalistic regime of Brazil took anti-immigrant measures, especially against the Japanese. Japanese and other foreign schools, languages and printed material were restricted, and a compulsory assimilation program was instituted. Japanese schools became illegal in 1938. During that period, Japanese immigrants established secret schools and a newspaper in japanese was printed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44611287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44611287", "title": "White Christmas (Black Mirror)", "text": "White Christmas (Black Mirror)\n\n\"White Christmas\" is a 2014 Christmas special episode of the British science fiction anthology series \"Black Mirror\". It was written by series creator and showrunner Charlie Brooker and directed by Carl Tibbetts, and first aired on Channel 4 on 16 December 2014. The only television special of the series, it was also the last episode to be aired on Channel 4, as the series would move to Netflix for its third series.\n\nThe episode starts with two men, Matt (Jon Hamm) and Joe (Rafe Spall), stationed at a remote outpost in the middle of a snowy wilderness. As they tell each other their respective lives to pass the time, those events are depicted on-screen, forming three mini-stories ultimately relating to the characters' current situation. Oona Chaplin and Natalia Tena co-star as two characters in these stories.\n\nThe episode received very positive reviews, with praise for the performances of Hamm and Spall, the writing, and the twist ending.\n\nJoe Potter (Rafe Spall) wakes up in a cabin on Christmas Day. As he enters the kitchen, Matt Trent (Jon Hamm) tries to talk to Joe, saying that the two have barely spoken in five years. To get Joe to open up, Matt tells the story of why he ended up in the cabin.\n\nMatt runs an online group who watch each other have sex with women. It is Harry's (Rasmus Hardiker) turn. Through Harry's \"Z-Eyes\", Matt can speak in his head and see what Harry sees. Harry crashes an office Christmas party and approaches Amy (Verity Marshall) and Jennifer (Natalia Tena). He proceeds to tells them fabricated anecdotes. Overhearing Harry talking to Matt in his head, Jennifer invites him back. In her bedroom, she makes Harry drink something. Explaining that she also hears voices in her head, Harry begins to cough and splutter. Jennifer drinks a mouthful and forces the rest into Harry with a funnel. The two die. Though the group try to delete all the evidence, they are found out. Matt's wife \"blocks\" him, a feature of Z-Eyes that causes Matt to see her as a colourless silhouette and hear her as a distorted stream of noise. She gets custody of the children.\n\nMatt then talks about his day job. The affluent Greta (Oona Chaplin) has undergone surgery to make a \"cookie\" of her—a digital clone stored within an egg-shaped object. Greta's cookie wakes up, not understanding where she is, and Matt explains that her job is to micromanage Greta's life. When the cookie refuses, Matt makes her experience three weeks passing in what lasts a few seconds to him. She protests again, leading Matt to force her to experience six months of time passing. Greta's cookie then concedes from the boredom caused by lack of stimuli, and she begins to control Greta's appliances and manage her calendar.\n\nJoe expresses disgust at what he considers slavery. Matt presses him to talk about why he ended up in the cabin. Joe and his girlfriend Beth (Janet Montgomery) have dinner with her friends Tim (Dan Li) and Gita (Zahra Ahmadi). Joe finds a positive pregnancy test, but Beth does not want to keep the child. The conversation becomes heated: Beth blocks Joe and he smashes a vase in fury. The following morning, she leaves while he protests, still blocked. Joe has no way of tracing her. He stumbles across her one day and sees that she is still pregnant, but a passerby calls the police upon hearing Beth call for help. A legal block is enforced, which causes offspring to be blocked.\n\nBeth always visits her father (Ken Drury) in his rural cabin at Christmas, so Joe journeys there each year and watches the blocked child from afar. When the child is four years old, Joe sees on the news that Beth has died, which lifts the legal block. Joe travels to Beth's father's house for Christmas Eve. He sees for the first time that the child is Asian—the father is Tim. Confusedly approaching Beth's father, Joe asks to see his daughter and ends up striking him on the head with a snow globe that he planned to give to the child. Beth's father falls onto a chair, bloodied, and Joe leaves. Two days later, Beth's daughter ventures out into the snow alone.\n\nWhile telling the story, Joe gradually realises that he is in Beth's father's house. It is revealed that Joe and Matt are in a cookie, and Matt exits as Joe's cookie has given testimony which can be used to convict Joe. Matt bargained this evidence for his release, but he is placed on an offender's list which leaves him blocked by everybody. Meanwhile, an officer sets the radio in the cookie to play \"I Wish It Could Be Christmas Every Day\", the song on the radio when Joe killed Beth's father, and changes the settings so that Joe experiences 1000 years per minute. Inside the cookie, Joe attempts to destroy the radio, only for it to reappear every time he looks away, with the music getting progressively louder.\n\nThe episode features Jon Hamm, Oona Chaplin, and Rafe Spall in the main roles. Hamm later elaborated that he \"had been a fan of \"Black Mirror\" and Charlie Brooker because I have a strange predilection for offbeat British things, and this was no exception. It came about in this very odd way, with me asking my agent if I could meet Mr. Brooker. I didn't know he was even working on a third series or a Christmas special or anything, it was simply that I really liked his work and really wanted to meet the guy.\" Hamm mentioned that he had \"seen both previous series and absolutely loved it\", and Brooker described Hamm's casting as \"fortuitous\". In contrast to Hamm, Spall accepted a part in the episode without having seen the series, but having once read a script for a previous episode. Chaplin, who had just moved from the UK to Los Angeles to capitalise on her success in \"Game of Thrones\", similarly praised the script, stating that she \"flew out there with a plan to stay for a year, and then a week later I was coming back to the UK to do this.”\n\nThe special makes references to previous \"Black Mirror\" episodes. In the beginning of the scene in which Matt's computer shows dating club clients in the conference call, one of the users has the nickname, \"I_AM_WALDO\", and another, \"Pie Ape\". The Z-Eyes are reminiscent of a similar device in \"The Entire History of You\". Clips of TV shows from \"The Waldo Moment\" and \"Fifteen Million Merits\" are visible when Joe flicks through the TV channels. The pregnancy test Joe finds is the same one used in \"Be Right Back\". The ticker during a news report mentions the prime minister from \"The National Anthem\", as well as Victoria Skillane from \"White Bear\", and Liam Monroe from \"The Waldo Moment\". Bethany sings \"Anyone Who Knows What Love Is\", the same song that Abi sings in \"Fifteen Million Merits\".\n\nOn 16 December 2014, the episode aired on Channel 4 at 9 p.m. The Broadcasters' Audience Research Board reports figures of 1.66 million viewers in the first 7 days, and 2.07 million viewers after 28 days.\n\nThe episode received critical acclaim. Ben Beaumont-Thomas of \"The Guardian\" praised the episode's comic satire and noted that \"sentimentality is offset with wicked wit, and Brooker's brio and imagination paper over any gaps in logic\". \"The Telegraph\" reviewer Mark Monahan gave the episode 4/5 stars and noted that the drama was \"thrilling stuff: escapist entertainment with a very real-world sting in its tail\". He equated the episode with the stronger of the previous \"Black Mirror\" episodes, stating that \"it exaggerated present-day technology and obsessions to subtle but infernal effect, a nightmare-before-Christmas reminder that to revere our digital gizmos is to become their pathetic slave\".\n\nEllen E Jones of \"The Independent\" also praised the episode, summarising that the episode was \"great on our technology culture, but also just great; well cast, expertly structured and genuinely unsettling\". She also compared it favourably to other Christmas television episodes, concluding that: \"at a time of year when schmaltz usually covers the TV schedules like a snowdrift, this sidelong look at the state of humanity is all the more welcome\". Daniel Krupa of IGN gave the episode 8.5/10. In particular, he praised the acting, although he noted that Chaplin's role was the least developed. Despite Hamm's star billing, Krupa noted: \"it's really Spall who shines brightest over the course of 90 minutes, as we experience the full depth of his misery\". Finally, Den of Geek noted that the episode's finale was \"a thrilling development that invites you to rewatch right from the beginning (something that will greatly benefit from the DVD release, when we can do it without all those ad breaks)\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38831206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38831206", "title": "William Blake Archive", "text": "William Blake Archive\n"}
