{"id": "57017056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57017056", "title": "2018 Oklahoma teachers' strike", "text": "2018 Oklahoma teachers' strike\n\nThe 2018 Oklahoma teachers' strike began on April 2, 2018, with teachers across the state walking out to protest low pay, overcrowded classrooms, and tax cuts that resulted in lower state-wide education spending. It was the first such action in Oklahoma since 1990. The OEA declared an end to the strike on April 12 after an agreement to increase salaries and state funding for education was reached. The call to end the strike faced some objection from teachers and parents who do not believe that enough concessions were made by lawmakers.\n\nUnlike the similar action in West Virginia, the strike was not a \"wildcat\" strike, as it received endorsement from union leadership, albeit only after pressure from teachers. The protest occurred concurrent with similar protests in Arizona, Kentucky, North Carolina, and Colorado.\n\nSince 2008, education spending per student in Oklahoma has fallen 28%. Due to the decrease in funding, twenty percent of schools run on four-day weeks, and many have eliminated art and language classes and shut down sports programs. Gains from last teachers' strike in Oklahoma, in 1990, which resulted in an agreement to lower class sizes, expand kindergarten programs, and increase teacher wages were later reversed due to budget cuts. The decline in funding and subsequent decline in the quality of public education has resulted in the expansion of charter schools in the state.\n\nSupport for a strike began to build in early March of 2018, after a proposal (dubbed the \"Step Up\" plan) failed to pass. The \"Step Up\" plan would have increased certain taxes and boosted teacher pay by $5,000. Both Democrats and Republicans voted against the bill. Some Democrats voted against as the plan did not go far enough to restore funding.\n\nPlans for a strike beginning on April 2 were first floated in March. On April 2, schools throughout Oklahoma were scheduled to take standardized tests; preventing these tests from taking place could potentially jeopardize millions in federal funds allocated to Oklahoma. After Oklahoma governor Mary Fallin passed a limited budget increase on Friday, March 30, a strike beginning on the 2nd was announced.\n\nThe strike lasted from April 2nd to April 12th. Teachers won greater school funding and salary increases, funded in part by taxes on tobacco sales, online shopping, and fracking as well as other miscellaneous taxes. Strike leaders had called for the introduction of a capital gains tax to avoid a regressive tax, but the terms were nevertheless accepted.\n\nTeacher salaries in Oklahoma are the lowest in the United States, resulting in some teachers and staffers working second or third jobs. An initial offer of a $6,000 wage increase, ratified by the governor, was rejected, as the initial demands were for a $10,000 raise for teachers and a $1250 raise for support staff.\n\nGovernor Mary Fallin likened teacher demands to \"...teenager(s) wanting a better car”. The quote was appropriated by teachers and used in chants during protests at the Oklahoma State Capitol. \n\nState representative Kevin McDugle, a Republican, indicated he would not pass any bill or measure to increase education spending due to the protests undertaken by the teachers.\n\nTen Republican representatives who opposed to tax raise to increase teacher salaries were up for re-election in 2018. Two, Scott McEachin and Chuck Strohm, were eliminated by other Republican nominees during the initial primary, while a further seven did not gain enough votes to win their primaries uncontested. These seven faced runoff elections in August 2018, and six lost.\n\n"}
{"id": "42823159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42823159", "title": "AAAI Fellow", "text": "AAAI Fellow\n\nFellowship of the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (abbreviated as AAAI Fellow or FAAAI) is an award granted to individuals that the Association for the Advancement of Artificial Intelligence (AAAI), judges to have made \"significant, sustained contributions — usually over at least a ten-year period — to the field of artificial intelligence\" (AI). Only a small percentage of members are nominated as fellows.\n\nBetween 5 and 10 fellows are nominated annually (since 1990) by current AAAI members. there are 2014 fellows in total, at the time of their nomination fellows have typically contributed to the field of AI for a decade or more after receiving their PhD or are at an equivalent career stage. \n\nA partial list of fellows can be found in the . Some fellows use the post-nominal letters FAAAI.\n"}
{"id": "401280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=401280", "title": "Aarhus University", "text": "Aarhus University\n\nAarhus University (, abbreviated AU) is a public research university located in Aarhus, Denmark. Founded in 1928, it is Denmark's second oldest university and the largest, with a total of 44,500 enrolled students . Aarhus University is placed in the top 100 in most prestigious ranking lists of the world's best universities. The university belongs to the Coimbra Group and Utrecht Network of European universities and is a member of the European University Association. The university comprises four faculties in Arts, Science and Technology, Health, and Business and Social Sciences and has a total of twenty-seven departments and is home to over thirty internationally recognised research centres, including fifteen Centres of Excellence funded by the Danish National Research Foundation. The business school within Aarhus University, called Aarhus BSS, holds the EFMD (European Foundation for Management Development) Equis accreditation, the Association to Advance Collegiate Schools of Business (AACSB) and the Association of MBAs (AMBA). This makes the business school of Aarhus University one of the few in the world to hold the so-called Triple Crown accreditation. Times Higher Education ranks Aarhus University in the top 10 of the most beautiful universities in Europe.\n\nThe university's alumni include Jørgen Vig Knudstorp, the CEO of Lego, Queen Margrethe II of Denmark, Crown Prince Frederik of Denmark, and Anders Fogh Rasmussen, former Prime Minister of Denmark and a Secretary General of NATO. It has associations with three Nobel Laureates: Jens Christian Skou in Chemistry (1997), Trygve Haavelmo (1989) in Economics and Dale T. Mortensen in Economics (2010).\n\nAarhus University was founded on 11 September 1928 as \"Universitetsundervisningen i Jylland\" (\"University Studies in Jutland\") with a budget of 33,000 Dkr and an enrollment of 64 students, which rose to 78 during the first semester. The university was founded as a response to the increasing number of students at the University of Copenhagen after World War I. Classrooms were rented from the Technical College and the teaching corps consisted of one professor of philosophy and four associate professors of Danish, English, German and French. Along with \"Universitets-Samvirket\" (\"The University Association\") which consisted of representatives of Aarhus' businesses, organisations and institutions, the municipality of Aarhus had fought since 1921 to have Denmark's next university located in the city.\n\nIn 1929, the municipality of Aarhus gave the university land with a landscape of rolling hills. The design of the university buildings and 12 ha campus area was assigned to architects C. F. Møller, Kay Fisker and Povl Stegmann, who won the architectural competition in 1931. Construction of the first buildings began a year later, but the campus was developed in stages and is still under development . Since 1939, C. F. Møller Architects has been responsible for the architectural design of Aarhus University in accordance with the original functionalist design key, perhaps best exemplified by the characteristic yellow brick and tile.\n\nThe first buildings was finished in 1933 and housed the Departments of Chemistry, Physics and Anatomy. These departments later moved to newer buildings at the campus and the original building complex now house Department of Psychology and Department of Political Science. The construction of the first stage was funded solely by donations which totaled 935,000 Dkr and the buildings covered an area of 4,190m. One of the most generous contributors to the first stage was \"De Forenede Teglværker i Aarhus\" (\"The United Tileworks of Aarhus\") led by director K. Nymark. \"Forenede Teglværker\" decided to donate 1 million yellow bricks and tiles worth c. 50,000 Dkr and later decided to extend the donation to all bricks needed. The inauguration on 11 September 1933, marked the first official use of the name Aarhus University and was celebrated in a tent on campus, attended by King Christian X, Queen Alexandrine, their son Crown Prince Frederick and Prime Minister Stauning together with 1000 invited guests. On 23 April 1934, Aarhus University was given permission to hold examinations by the king and on 10 October 1935, Professor Dr. phil. Ernst Frandsen was appointed the first rector of the university.\n\nShortages of materials and a stressed economy, postponed and delayed further development of Aarhus University. In 1941, construction of The Main Building (\"Hovedbygningen\") commenced, a complex to house the university aula (assembly hall) and canteen among academic and administrative purposes. The stringent minimalist and uncompromising functionalistic design of the first university buildings from 1933 had stirred some local dissatisfaction and it was decided that The Main Building should possess more traditional romantic and classical architectural inspirations - although in agreement with the original architectural plan -, and also make use of more lavish and expensive materials. The Main Building was finished in 1946 and still stands out from the rest of the University campus as somewhat different in its architectural design.\n\nIn comparison with the original 4,190m floor space of the first buildings, Aarhus University now holds a floor space of 246,000m in the University Park alone. A series of buildings outside the main campus adds an additional floor space of 59,000m.\n\nFrom 1928, Aarhus University offered courses in languages and philosophy, but the students were unable to finish their studies without going to the University of Copenhagen for their final examinations. By request of the Ministry of Education, the Teachers' Association made a draft of how to conduct the final examinations in the humanistic subjects in Aarhus and in the draft, the Association proposed that the faculty was named the Faculty of Humanities by analogy with the corresponding faculties in Uppsala, Lund and Turku. After negotiations between the faculties in Aarhus and Copenhagen, the King declared on 8 May 1935 that the final university examinations could be held at the Faculty of Philosophy in Copenhagen as well as at the Faculty of Humanities in Aarhus. This was the first final examinations Aarhus University was allowed to hold, but on 24 July 1936 the king granted the Faculty of Humanities the right to hold examinations for the magister degree and in 1940 for the PhD.\n\nAarhus University had offered courses in basic medical subjects from 1933 and on 10 October 1935 the Faculty of Medicine was formally established. The establishment of a Faculty of Medicine in Aarhus was met with some opposition from the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Copenhagen. The professors thought that the state should not establish a new Faculty until the shortcomings of the old one had been solved. In the end, the professors agreed to sign a recommendation for the new Faculty as long as improvements to the old one were not delayed. By 1953, the Faculty of Medicine had been fully built, complete with lectures, professorship chairs, final exams, research facilities and the hospitals of Aarhus had been expanded to meet the demands of clinical training. In 1992, the Faculty of Medicine merged with the dental school and changed its name to Faculty of Health Sciences.\n\nThe university established its Faculty of Economics and Law in 1936, but when it offered courses in political science and in psychology (1959 and 1968, respectively), the faculty changed its name to the Faculty of Social Sciences. The faculty had to be funded solely on private donations and once the university demonstrated it had the needed financial means, the Minister of Education recommended the Finance Committee to approve the establishment of the faculty on 27 January 1936 since the state did not have to grant financial support. The Committee approved and by declaration of the king on 5 November 1937, the faculty could hold examinations in economics and law.\n\nCourses had been offered in theology since 1932 at the Faculty of Humanities, but in 1942 the Faculty of Theology was formally established. Already on 22 June 1928, Reverend Balslev of Aarhus had proposed that Universitetsundervisningen i Aarhus (not yet university) taught basic courses in theology. Though the proposal was greeted by the management, the Faculty of Theology in Copenhagen pointed out that it would take 3 full-time teachers of the New Testament, Old Testament and ecclesiastical history, respectively as well as education in Latin, Greek and Hebrew by the Faculty of Humanities. At this time, Universitetsundervisningen i Aarhus did not have the financial means to meet these criteria so the case was shelved for the time being. In April 1931, the case reopened, this time by Bishop Skat Hoffmeyer who proposed free teaching in the required subjects. The management asked the faculty in Copenhagen if this was acceptable, but because the teaching was free, the faculty saw it as tutoring rather than actual teaching and they neither approved or disproved of such an approach though they did not see it as actual university teaching. The municipality of Aarhus did not aid with funds and the management deemed a request of the state to be futile so they decided to disregard getting the teaching approved and start it anyway under the supervision of Skat Hoffmeyer. On 5 September 1932 Reverend Asmund held the first lecture in theology. This private education in theology continued until the university could hire its own professors in 1938, and in 1942 Aarhus University could at long last establish the Faculty of Theology.\n\nIn 1938, the university management acknowledged it was time to consider an expansion due to lack of space and overcrowding of the auditoriums. The solution was The Main Building (\"Hovedbygningen\"), containing both rooms and facilities for new academic areas, as well as housing for the general administration, an assembly hall and a canteen. The building was to be organized according to a principle of institutes so that teaching and research took place in certain rooms with their own library and study for the professor.\n\nThe construction of the building took place during the German occupation of Denmark (1940–45) in World War II, which affected the process in more than one way. No state funds had been involved in the construction of the first university building and a second building for physiology, biochemistry, and a high voltage laboratory, but because the Nazis were against civil use of materials and work forces, the state contributed to the main building. In 1943, the Gestapo, Sicherheitsdienst, Geheime Feldpolizei and Abwehr set up their regional headquarters in the five student halls of residence on campus. Fearing that the same would happen to the new main building, its completion was delayed. C. F. Møller later wrote that for once there was plenty of time to work on the details of the building, like patterned brickwork, acoustic screens and furniture. Furniture designer Aage Windeleff, designed the furniture specially for the main building, while Børge Mogensen's industrially produced furniture designs are the most commonly used elsewhere on campus.\n\nThe presence of the Gestapo in Aarhus led to multiple arrests of Danish resistance fighters and the resistance movement soon realized they needed outside assistance. On 15 October, the leader of the illegal Danish underground army in Jutland, Niels Bennike, sent the following telegram to London:\nUndergrunden i Jyland ved at blive revet op af Gestapo. Vigtigere at få ødelagt arkiver og bevare vore folk end at bevare arkiver og få ødelagt vore folk. Jeg beder indtrængende om, at kollegium 4 og 5, gentager 4 og 5, må blive ødelagt ved luftangreb. Det er de to vestligste, gentager vestligste, bygninger i universitetskomplekset. Haster, gentager haster.\nOn 31 October 1944, the Royal Air Force bombed the Gestapo's headquarters in residence halls 4 and 5, also killing ten civilian workers. 2 Group Bomber Command carried out the bombing by using 25 Mosquito planes. The air strike on the University of Aarhus took place in a heavily populated area and the campus was surrounded by three hospitals. To avoid civilian casualties, the RAF prepared with a model of the campus, shooting at residence halls 4 and 5 with chalk bags. The architect C. F. Møller was in the main building during the air strike but survived and was later dug free from the rubble. The reconstructed main building opened on 11 September 1946.\n\nAarhus University was an independent institution until 1970, but with management representatives from the city council and the organization of Universitets-Samvirket. Hereafter, the university became a state-run institution under the first University Act. With the next University Act in 1992, external organizations were once again represented in the administration and under the 2003 Act, all Danish universities are governed by a nationwide university board. This board appoints the rector, deans and heads of departments instead of the students. It commenced in January 2004 for the first time and in August 2005, it appointed a new rector.\n\nIn 1994, the university was a scene of a shooting; 3 people (including the perpetrator) were killed and two more were injured.\n\nAarhus University has hosted significant musical events. The Grateful Dead played there on April 16, 1972; the recorded performance was part of the group's Europe '72 tour.\n\nIn the current century, several higher education institutions have been merged with Aarhus University. Following the Danish University reform of 2006, it merged with the HIH in Herning and the DPU in Copenhagen, making the university nationwide and adding 6,000 students. In 2012, Aarhus University's School of Engineering was merged with the university proper, making it Denmark's largest.\n\nAarhus University's main campus is located in central Aarhus, encircling the University Park (\"Universitetsparken\").\n\nThe campus master plan competition was won in 1931 by the collaborative scheme of Danish architects Kay Fisker, C. F. Møller and Povl Stegmann in collaboration with landscape architect Carl Theodor Sørensen. The design includes a wide variety of buildings in a large area, but each building is constructed of the same yellow brick and roofing tile and with a common design key, providing the whole campus with a unified appearance. Construction commenced in 1932 and has continued into present times, lately in 1999-2001 (\"Søauditorierne\") and 2014-17 (AU Health). The original main building was one of the first Danish functionalist public buildings and has been included in the Ministry of Culture's canon of Danish architecture; it is acknowledged as one of the twelve most significant architectural works in the cultural history of Denmark. In a harmonic interplay with the park, the yellow buildings form a campus that has received international recognition for its aesthetic values and it has been protected by law since 1993, in order to conserve its unique design. C. F. Møller and his company, C. F. Møller Architects have continued as architects of the campus ever since, except the new department of AU Health currently under construction, designed by Cubo. The park and campus has been expanded throughout the years, in 1957 the old park of Vennelystparken, just south of the University park was included.\n\nApart from the main campus, Aarhus University has several smaller campuses and departments throughout Aarhus. This includes the campus of Aarhus BSS, school of business and social sciences in Aarhus V, the new adjacent campus of Nobelparken, built in 1997-2004 in red brick, also by C. F. Møller Architects, but in a different design, a campus at Trøjborg for Nordic linguistics and related studies, and parts of the research park of IT-byen at Katrinebjerg, where the computer science institute also teach and do research. Archaeology and anthropology takes residence in Moesgård Manor, an old manor house at the new Moesgård Museum.\n\nAarhus University also has a small campus in Emdrup in Copenhagen (approx. 6.000 students), where the university's programmes in education and pedagogy are taught and researched. It is due for expansion by 2020, and the small Environmental Science Unit at Frederiksborgvej 399, Roskilde is due to move there. In the city of Herning, there is also a small campus where a few of the university's business, engineering and technology programmes are taught, called the Department of Business Development and Technology.\n\nThe university is governed by the University Board which has 11 members: six members recruited outside the university form the majority of the board, two members are appointed by the academic staff, one member is appointed by the technical/administrative staff, and two members are appointed by the university students. The rector is appointed by the university board. The rector in turn appoints deans and deans appoint heads of departments. There is no faculty senate and faculty is not involved in the appointment of rector, deans, or department heads. Hence the university has no faculty governance.\n\nSince 1 January 2011, the university has been organised into four major main academic areas:\n\n, more than 42,000 students were enrolled in Aarhus University. Each year more than 1000 international exchange students come to Aarhus University to study for one or two terms. In 2009 close to 3000 international students were enrolled in full degree programmes. Aarhus University is an international university with a large proportion of students at the post-baccalaureate level: over half of its students are enrolled in master's degree and PhD programmes. In 2011, 59 of the university's 113 Master's degree programmes were taught in English. Talent development of young researchers has been identified as one of the university's core activities. This means that highly qualified students have the option of starting their PhD studies before completing their master's degree. The university's doctoral programmes allow talented students to enroll in a combined Master's/PhD programme either right after completing the bachelor's degree (the 3+5 track) or one year into their master's degree programme (the 4+4 track). Since 2006 the number of PhD students has risen from approximately 1000 to approximately 1700 in 2010.\n\nThe International Centre maintains international partnerships and combines a wide range of services for exchange students, international full-degree students, PhDs and visiting scholars. The International Centre is often the first stop for foreign students at Aarhus University, since the centre offers advice on finding housing and living in Denmark.\n\nStarting in 2011 all summer courses and summer schools offered by Aarhus University for Bachelor's, Master's and PhD students will be gathered together and expanded to provide more diversity in a new framework: AU Summer University. In the summer of 2011 more than 80 courses were offered within the fields of humanities, theology, social sciences, health sciences, natural sciences, agricultural sciences, business and educational sciences. Summer courses are open to both Danish and international students.\n\nAarhus University has seen some deep administrational changes since the turn of the century and now also includes several large sub-departments such as Aarhus BSS, AU Engineering and others. Each of these sub-departments offers undergraduate and/or graduate programmes specific to their own field of study. The core academic degree programmes of Aarhus University includes the following fields:\n\nThe university offers eight undergraduate and about 60 graduate programmes in English-language.\n\nSince 1944, Aarhus University owned Cheminova, a chemical manufacturer who among other controversies has been selling methyl parathion pesticide to Brazil farmers. In 2009, senior researcher Mette Jensen emailed her colleagues at AU, asking whether they thought Cheminova should stop selling the controversial pesticides. For this, the university threatened her with dismissal. The university's Pro-Vice-Chancellor Søren E. Frandsen denied that the university had made any mistakes or threatened the freedom of speech and academic freedom of its staff.\n\nOn 30 April 2015, Cheminva was sold to the FMC Corporation for DKK 8.5 billion, a controversial issue in itself.\n\nAarhus University is home to 15 Centres of Excellence supported by the Danish National Research Foundation and a considerable number of major research centres.\nThe 15 Centres of Excellence are:\n\nSome of the university's other major research centres include MindLab and iNANO.\n\nMINDLAB was established with a DKK 120 million grant awarded by the Danish Ministry of Science, Technology and Innovation. At MINDLab neuroscientists, psychologists, biologists, statisticians and researchers from other fields work together to understand the brain, its disorders, and its development through physical and social interactions – and vice versa.\n\nThe Interdisciplinary Nanoscience Center (founded in 2002 by Professor Flemming Besenbacher) offers a degree programme in nanoscience with an interdisciplinary curriculum covering a broad spectrum of introductory, advanced and specialised courses, aimed at providing the student with a sufficiently broad basis to conduct interdisciplinary research within nanoscience and at the same time achieve disciplinary depth and specialised skills in selected areas. Hence, the programme encompasses physics, chemistry, biology, molecular biology, mathematics and computer science.\n\nStudents from different fields meet in the numerous Friday bars, in the Student House Aarhus (\"Studenternes Hus\") and at concerts in the University Park and around the rest of the city. The Friday bars are often organised by the different departments who set up a small bar in a canteen or classroom where beers and non-alcoholic drinks are served.\n\nThe university also has a number of libraries, some of which are open around the clock. Almost every department has its own library, but the main library is the State and University Library. It has an extensive electronic journal database which students and staff can access either at the library or from home.\n\nAarhus University Sports (AUS) is open to all university students and organises a wide range of activities from badminton, to fencing and chess.\n\nThe largest student organisations at Aarhus University are the Student Union (\"Studenterrådet\") and \"Studenterlauget\". The Student Union represents the main student body at Aarhus University while \"Studenterlauget\" is a mainly social organisation at School of Business and Social Sciences. The Student Union has both student seats on the university board. The Student Union also arranges annual concerts and seminars, and publishes the student magazine \"Delfinen\" (The Dolphin).\n\nThere are political students organisations at the university, the largest of which include the Social-Democratic Students (\"Frit Forum\"), Conservative Students (\"Konservative Studenter\"), and Liberal Students (\"Liberale Studerende\"). The Conservative Students union publishes the student magazine \"Critique\". The Liberal Students union publishes the leaflet Minerva.\n\nAarhus University offers many activities and services for foreign and Danish students. Several \"Friday Bars\", clubs organized and crewed by students at the university offer cheap beer and drinks, which has a wide appeal to the student body.\n\nStudenternes Hus (The Students House) was built in 1964 at the central campus to accommodate students organisations, activities, festivities and gatherings. Among many other things, the buildings are headquarters to the students organisation \"Studenterhus Aarhus\", and Aarhus University offers a free membership to all exchange students. The Students House is a meeting place for international and Danish students in Aarhus and \"Studenterhus Aarhus\" organize social and cultural activities throughout the year, ranging from parties and road trips, to language classes and weekly international nights (a popular dinner club).\n\nAUS is the official sports club of Aarhus University, and is open to all university students. It is an umbrella organisation consisting of 14 independent member clubs, which host a wide range of activities, from badminton to fencing to chess. In addition, AUS also offers independent activities such as indoor soccer tournaments, gym facilities and skiing trips.\n\nDale's Café is a meeting place for international students and the university's PhD students that opened in 2011. The café offers coffee, sandwiches and a wide selection of beers. It has an informal lounge area where students and young researchers can relax while enjoying snacks and beverages. Like the main building, Dale's Café is named after Aarhus University's 2010 Nobel Laureate in Economic Sciences, Dale T. Mortensen. The Dale T. Mortensen Building houses the International Centre, the PhD House and the IC Dormitory, which contains 28 dorm rooms and two apartments dedicated to recently arrived international PhD students.\n\nKlubben (which means 'The Club' in Danish) is a bar located at the former ASB (Aarhus School of Business), now under the faculty of School of Business and Social Sciences. The bar is open during regular school hours and weekdays, but hosts larger parties during Fridays and in relation to major sports events. Admittance is usually restricted to students of the School of Business and Social Sciences.\n\nStudenterlauget, School of Business and Social Sciences (at the former ASB) is currently the largest student organisation in Denmark – Studenterlauget. The organisation has approximately 4,000 members whom they service through nine smaller \"business units\". Studenterlauget has around 130 employees, most of them students.\n\nAarhus University operates a number of museums, both in and outside the University campus:\n\n\n\n\nAarhus University is highly ranked by international organizations and maintains its own page listing its current rankings. It's ranked 65th by the Shanghai Ranking (2018), 89th by National Taiwan University Ranking (2018), 95th by the U.S. News & World Report (2018), 109th by Times Higher Education World University Rankings (2018), and 141th by QS World University Rankings (2018). In Denmark, only University of Copenhagen generally achieves better rankings.\n\nResidence halls for students in Aarhus, includes the following:\nOnly the Parkkollegierne residence halls are located on campus; other residence halls are located elsewhere, all across the city. It is also the only residence hall exclusively for students at Aarhus University. A large part of the residence halls and youth accommodation in Aarhus is administered by the non-profit housing cooperative of Kollegiekontoret. The public web-platform of Ungdomsboliger.dk provides access to student and youth accommodation all across Denmark.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53886934", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53886934", "title": "Amelia Felle", "text": "Amelia Felle\n\nAmelia Felle (born 1961) is an Italian operatic soprano and voice teacher. Born in Bari, she has been active on the stages of Italian and European opera houses and concert halls since her debut in 1981. She holds the chair in vocal chamber music at the Accademia Santa Cecilia in Rome, a position she previously held at the Conservatorio Tito Schipa in Lecce. \n\nFelle was born in Bari and received her diplomas in piano and singing from the city's Conservatorio Niccolò Piccinni. At the same time she obtained a diploma in architecture from the Accademia di Belle Arti di Bari. She made her singing debut in Bari in 1981 performing in oratorios by Vivaldi and Pergolesi with the Orchestra Sinfonica della Provincia di Bari. After winning the Concorso Liederistico Internazionale di Finale Ligure and the Voci Nuove per la Lirica competitions in 1984, she made her debut on the opera stage at Teatro Lirico Sperimentale in Spoleto as Adina in \"L'elisir d'amore\" and sang again there as Norina in \"Don Pasquale\" (1985) and Susanna \"Le nozze di Figaro\" directed by Gigi Proietti (1986). \n\nShe went on to make her house debuts at the Teatro San Carlo as Sofia in \"Il signor Bruschino\" (1986), La Fenice as Musetta in \"La bohème\" (1987), and La Scala as Jemmy in \"Guillaume Tell\" (1988). In the first years of her career she sang primarily in operas by Donizetti, Rossini, and Mozart but she also appeared in two rarely performed Mascagni operas, \"Le maschere\" (as Colombina) and \"Sì\" (as Vera), as well as singing Nena in La Scala's first performance of Pergolesi's \"Lo frate 'nnamorato\". Her later Verdian roles included Amelia in \"Ballo in maschera\", the title role of \"Aida\", Elvira in \"Ernani\", Elisabetta in \"Don Carlo\", Lucrezia in \"I due Foscari\", and Amelia in \"Simon Boccanegra\". \n\nIn the early 2000s Felle left the opera stage and has since concentrated on the vocal chamber music repertoire. For over 20 years she has been a professor of singing in parallel with her performance career. She is professor of vocal chamber music at the Accademia Santa Cecilia in Rome, a post she previously held at the Conservatorio Tito Schipa in Lecce, and has taught courses and master classes for the universities of Barcelona, Weimar, Leipzig, Dublin, Karlsruhe, Palma de Mallorca, Istanbul, and Malta amongst others.\n\n"}
{"id": "55075488", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55075488", "title": "Arusha Technical College", "text": "Arusha Technical College\n\nArusha Technical College (ATC) in Arusha, Tanzania is a public higher tertiary education institution, which was jointly established in 1978 by the Governments of the United Republic of Tanzania and Germany (then the Federal Republic of Germany), as the Technical College Arusha (TCA). The college is in the Central Business District of Arusha City in the Northern Tanzania-East Africa Community (EAC).\nIn March 2007, the name changed to the Arusha Technical College (ATC) through the Arusha Technical College Establishment Order No. 78 as enabled by the NACTE Act No. 9 of 1997.\n\nThe college has two campuses: Oljoro in Arusha and Kikuletwa in Hai Kilimanjaro.\n"}
{"id": "41547037", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41547037", "title": "Asian Business Case Competition @ Nanyang", "text": "Asian Business Case Competition @ Nanyang\n\nAsian Business Case Competition @ Nanyang is an international undergraduate business case competition in Singapore, established in 2007. It is organised by Nanyang Business School’s case club Business Solutions and is backed by the Asian Business Case Centre. ABCC @ Nanyang is a student-led case competition with a focus on sustainability.\nEvery year, the competition hosts undergraduate participants from business schools around the world, applying their knowledge and skills to solve real-life business problems.\nABCC @ Nanyang has been certified carbon neutral by TheCarbonNeutral Company.\n\nThe competition centres around a 40-hour-long case, where students would strategize their best solution to a business case study, and present their case to a panel of judges. In 2017, after one successful decade of hosting Asian Business Case Competition, the format of competition was changed to include one 8-hour case, and one 24-hour case to provide an enhanced competition experience.\n\n2017\n\nChampions: University of Alberta\n\n2016\n\nChampions: University of Alberta\n\n2015\n\nChampions: Nanyang Business School, Nanyang Technological University \n\n2014\n\nChampions: University of New South Wales\n\n2013\n\nChampions: Chulalongkorn University\n\n2012\n\nChampions: University of Porto\n\n2011\n\nChampions: Queensland University of Technology\n\n2010\n\nChampions: Maastricht University\n\n2009\n\nChampions: University of Southern California\n\n2008\n\nChampions: University of Southern California\n\nABCC @ Nanyang has adopted and adhered to several sustainability practices. Besides sourcing for environmentally-friendly materials for use during the competition where possible, ABCC @ Nanyang also purchases carbon credits and is carbon-neutral certified.\n\nA one-day event during ABCC is dedicated to sustainability each year. It has taken different forms in the past few years including panel discussions and mini-case presentations, revolving around sustainability. Some of the highlights include the sustainability roundtable event in 2010, where participants were split into different groups to hold a discussion based on the central theme of “Profitable Shade of Green”. Other formats include 2011’s event, which took the form of a mini-case, where teams were challenged to come up with a strategic plan for sustainable growth in the Small-Medium Enterprise (SME) context, with a focus on engaging fresh graduate talent.\n\nThe competition is organized by students from Nanyang Business School's case club, Business Solutions. Nanyang Business School is part of Nanyang Technological University, based in Singapore. Besides ABCC @ Nanyang, Business Solution also organises the Singapore Business Case Competition, a case competition targeted at students from the local tertiary institutions in Singapore.\n\n"}
{"id": "566046", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=566046", "title": "Career and technical student organization", "text": "Career and technical student organization\n\nCareer and technical student organizations (CTSOs) are vocational organizations primarily based in high schools and career technology centers.\n\nOften, on the state level, they are integrated into departments of education or incorporated as nonprofit organizations. Many states define CTSOs as \"integral parts\" of the high school and college education programs. Other higher education institutions have added extracurricular activities that are not sports-related, like CTSOs in order to enhance the college experience.\n\nSome major CTSOs include:\n\n"}
{"id": "42257838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42257838", "title": "Chemical chameleon", "text": "Chemical chameleon\n\nThe chemical chameleon is a redox reaction, well known from classroom demonstrations, that exploits the dramatic color changes associated with the various oxidation states of manganese.\n\nGlauber reported the first description of the production of potassium permanganate when he noted that manganese dioxide (as the mineral pyrolusite) could be reacted at high temperatures with alkali to obtain a material that dissolved in water to give a green solution which slowly shifted to a violet-red. This process, similar to that still used in the production of potassium permanganate, oxidized manganese dioxide to potassium manganate which, acidified by carbon dioxide absorbed from the air, oxidized further to purple potassium permanganate.\n\nThe chemical chameleon reaction shows the process in reverse, by reducing violet potassium permanganate first to green potassium manganate and eventually to brown manganese dioxide:\n\nBlue potassium hypomanganate may also form as an intermediate.\n\n</div>\n\nThe reaction proceeds in alkaline conditions under the influence of a reducing agent. Sodium hydroxide, potassium hydroxide, and ammonium hydroxide can be used to alkalize the permanganate solution, while a variety of reducing agents can be used, sugars being common.\n\nA similar demonstration involves soaking paper in alkalized permanganate solution, which produces the same color changes as the paper is oxidized and the permanganate reduced.\n"}
{"id": "19227024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19227024", "title": "Daniel Caldwell", "text": "Daniel Caldwell\n\nDaniel Edmund Caldwell (1935 – March 15, 2015) was an American actor, stage director and drama teacher. He was the founder of Conservatory Theatre Ensemble in Mill Valley, California, where he taught drama at Tamalpais High School.\n\nCaldwell attended Tamalpais High School, transferring to Sir Francis Drake High School in Fairfax when it opened in 1951. He graduated from Drake in 1952.\n\nCaldwell taught drama for 37 years at Tamalpais High School, from 1962 to until his retirement in 1999. In 1976, with Michelle Swanson, he cofounded the Ensemble Theatre Company of Marin (ETC), which later changed its name to the Conservatory Theatre Ensemble (CTE). Calwell and Swanson won the F. Loren Winship Secondary School Theatre Award from the American Alliance of Theatre and Education in 1988 and 1990.\n\nNotable former students at Tam and CTE include Michael Thomsett (Class of 1966), Kathleen Quinlan (Class of 1972), Courtney Thorne-Smith (1985), and Tupac Shakur (1989), Merritt Butrick (September 3, 1959 – March 17, 1989) in the mid 70's.\n\nIn 2002, the Tamalpais Union High School District named the new theater under construction at Tam the \"Daniel Caldwell Performing Arts Center.\" The new Center was completed and opened in 2006.\n\nCaldwell's early career as a film actor includes work with Woody Allen, Otto Preminger, Michelangelo Antonioni, Tommy Chong, Richard Lester and John Korty. He was also a director in the early years of Marin Shakespeare Festival and a freelance director of the long running play, \"The Trial Of James McNeill Whistler.\" His recent work included \"The Art of Dining.\" at Marin Theatre Company, \"Autumn Canticle,\" at the Eureka Theatre, and the film \"Dead City,\" directed by his former student and CTE grad, Jason Houston.\n\nCaldwell was Vice-President of the Screen Actors Guild, serving as president of the San Francisco branch for 18 years. He served on the Board of Directors for the Marin Arts Council, the Magic Carpet Play Company, and Teen’s Kickoff. He was married to actress Karlene Crockett.\n"}
{"id": "25862625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25862625", "title": "Delhi Public School, Biratnagar", "text": "Delhi Public School, Biratnagar\n\nDelhi Public School, Biratnagar is a school in Biratnagar, Nepal, run under the aegis of Delhi Public School Society.\n\nThe school is co-educational, open to both boys and girls from Pre-Nursery to 12th Standard. The medium of instruction is English .Current principal of DPS Biratnagar is Gita Mam.\n"}
{"id": "2713433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2713433", "title": "Dominie", "text": "Dominie\n\nDominie (Wiktionary definition) is a Scots language and Scottish English term for a Scottish schoolmaster usually of the Church of Scotland and also a term used in the US for a minister or pastor of the Dutch Reformed Church.\n\nIt comes from the Latin \"domine\" (vocative case of Dominus 'Lord, Master'). When the Church of Scotland began to introduce universal provision of education in Scotland after it became established as a national church in 1560, its aim was to have a university educated schoolmaster in every parish. The minister sometimes served as the dominie. Over time this came to be used as a term for a minister, schoolmaster or university student.\n\nMany Scots hold the universal provision of education in high regard, which was one of a number of social improvements to arise from the Scots Reformation. It accounts for a difference in attitudes to education between Scotland and other UK countries.\n\nIn the United States the same word is used to describe a pastor in the Dutch Reformed Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "992398", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=992398", "title": "Donald Justice", "text": "Donald Justice\n\nDonald Justice (August 12, 1925 – August 6, 2004) was an American poet and teacher of writing. In summing up Justice's career David Orr wrote, \"In most ways, Justice was no different from any number of solid, quiet older writers devoted to traditional short poems. But he was different in one important sense: sometimes his poems weren't just good; they were great. They were great in the way that Elizabeth Bishop's poems were great, or Thom Gunn's or Philip Larkin's. They were great in the way that tells us what poetry used to be, and is, and will be.\"\n\nJustice grew up in Florida, and earned a bachelor's degree from the University of Miami in 1945. He received an M.A. from the University of North Carolina in 1947, studied for a time at Stanford University, and ultimately earned a doctorate from the University of Iowa in 1954. He went on to teach for many years at the Iowa Writers' Workshop, the nation's first graduate program in creative writing. He also taught at Syracuse University, the University of California at Irvine, Princeton University, the University of Virginia, and the University of Florida in Gainesville.\n\nJustice published thirteen collections of his poetry. The first collection, \"The Summer Anniversaries\", was the winner of the Lamont Poetry Prize given by the Academy of American Poets in 1961; \"Selected Poems\" won the Pulitzer Prize for Poetry in 1980. He was awarded the Bollingen Prize in Poetry in 1991, and the Lannan Literary Award for Poetry in 1996.\n\nHis honors also included grants from the Guggenheim Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, and the National Endowment for the Arts. He was a member of the American Academy of Arts and Letters, and a Chancellor of the Academy of American Poets from 1997 to 2003. His \"Collected Poems\" was nominated for the National Book Award in 2004. Justice was also a National Book Award Finalist in 1961, 1974, and 1995.\n\nIn his obituary, Andrew Rosenheim notes that Justice \"was a legendary teacher, and despite his own Formalist reputation influenced a wide range of younger writers — his students included Mark Strand, Rita Dove, James Tate, C. Dale Young, Ellen Bryant Voigt, Will Schmitz, Jorie Graham and the novelist John Irving.\" His student and later colleague Marvin Bell said in a reminiscence, \"As a teacher, Don chose always to be on the side of the poem, defending it from half-baked attacks by students anxious to defend their own turf. While he had firm preferences in private, as a teacher Don defended all turfs. He had little use for poetic theory...\"\n\nOf Justice's accomplishments as a poet, his former student, the poet and critic Tad Richards, noted that \"Donald Justice is likely to be remembered as a poet who gave his age a quiet but compelling insight into loss and distance, and who set a standard for craftsmanship, attention to detail, and subtleties of rhythm.\"\n\nJustice's work was the subject of the 1998 volume \"Certain Solitudes: On The Poetry of Donald Justice\", a collection of essays edited by Dana Gioia and William Logan.\n\nJustice died August 6, 2004 at an Iowa City, IA nursing home. He'd been staying at the nursing home after suffering a stroke several weeks before he died. He was 78 years old. His family said the immediate cause of death was pneumonia, but that he also had Parkinson's disease.\n\nIn bertram's Rose Garden was published in the compilation made by James K bell and Adrian A cohan entitled \"Toward the new America\".\n\n\n\nJustice edited posthumous selections of unpublished poetry for four poets: Weldon Kees, Henri Coulette, Raeburn Miller, and Joe Bolton.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58651179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58651179", "title": "Educational management", "text": "Educational management\n\nEducational management refers to the administration of the education system whereby a collective group combines human and material resources to supervise, plan, strategise, and implement structures to execute the functions of an education system.\n\nEducation is the equipping of knowledge, skills, values, beliefs, habits, and attitudes through learning experiences. The education system is an ecosystem of professionals situated in educational institutions such as Government ministries, unions, statutory boards, agencies, and schools. The education system comprises political heads, principals, teaching staff, non-teaching staff, administrative personnel and other education professionals working in tandem to enrich and enhance. At all levels of the ecosystem in the education system, management is required. Management involves the planning, organising, implementation, review, evaluation, and integration of clear deliverables of the institution.\n\nThe function of educational management can be referenced to Henri Fayol's 14 Principles of Management.\n\nCo-curricular activities help students maintain a holistic education and are a key expression of students' interests and talents. These activities also help foster a sense of social integration and add an important sense of commitment and belonging to one's community and country. Co-curricular activities include science-oriented talent development programmes, clubs and societies, physical sports, uniformed groups, and visual and performing arts groups. Co-curricular activities could also include student interests groups such as advocacy groups, botany, personal care, innovation, research methodologies, and current affairs.\n\nCurriculum planning and development involves “the design and development of integrated plans for learning, and of the evaluation of plans, their implementation and the outcomes of the learning experience”. The role of this department is to design and review curriculum, promote teaching and assessment strategies that are aligned to curriculum frameworks, formulate special curriculum programmes, create clear and observable objectives, and generate effective assessment rubrics.\n\nCurriculum development can be described in a three-stage process, encompassing the planned curriculum, the delivered curriculum, and lastly the experienced curriculum. The curriculum is often shaped by the pedagogical approaches contributed by theorists and researchers such as notable figures like John Dewey, Lev Vygotsky, Jean Piaget, Jerome Bruner, and Albert Bandura.\n\nCurriculum development as the pre-school education level is based on the different school of thoughts. They include but are not limited to:\n\n\nCurriculum development at the primary education focuses on the foundations of subjects. The curriculum covers the various aspects of Subject Disciplines, Knowledge Skills, and Character Development. Subject disciplines comprise the various core and foundational subjects of Language, Science, Humanities, Arts, Technology, and Social Studies. Knowledge skills involve personal skills and attributes such as communication, critical thinking, teamwork, and judgement. These skills are developed through unique learning experiences based on the school's pedagogical practices, which are aligned with the mission and vision. Character development, according to Eisner, is defined as the implicit curriculum, otherwise known as the hidden agenda of the school. Character traits and attributes include resilience, self-discipline, empathy, and compassion which primarily focuses on the social-emotional development of each student. The curriculum development serves as a springboard towards personal and social capabilities, ethical and intercultural understanding, and sound moral judgement.\n\nCurriculum development varies based on the course or stream the student is enrolled in. Curriculum development primarily focuses on core subjects such as Language, Mathematics, Science, and Humanities. The learning experiences, strategic goals, national frameworks, and school philosophy are also considered in curriculum development. Schools also consider values and progressive skills in the development of a holistic curriculum. Special elective and vocational programmes are also offered which includes social studies, art and music, design and technology and computer studies. Specialised schools integrate programmes with corporate partners to include programmes such as Information and Communication Technology, Entrepreneurship, Art, Design, Media and Da Vinci. Additionally, enhanced programmes in sports, arts, and language are offered in schools with specified goals in education and curriculum.\n\nCurriculum development at the tertiary education level involves specific course design and development. Griffith University describes planning as based on previously collected evidence; the process also involves assessment, technologically informed learning and discipline-based capabilities. Thus, this process aims to prepare students for the workforce, while enhancing their understanding of the subject. Griffith University, for example, considers five key elements in curriculum development; specifically, Learning Analytics, External Peer Review, Peer-based Professional Learning and Professional Learning Workshops.\n\nEducational technology involves the integration, planning, implementation and management of Information and communications technology (ICT) for effective learning and teaching. The function of the educational technology branch in the education system is for conceptualisation and development of ICT in education, integration into existing curriculum frameworks, staff development, and management.\n\nIn modern times, the focus of educational technology has shifted to online and web-based applications, learning portals, flipped classrooms and a whole variety of social networks for the purposes of teaching and learning.\n\nEducational technology includes ICT but is not limited to the use of both physical hardware and educational theoretics. It encompasses several domains including collaborative learning, learning theory, linear learning, online portal learning, and where mobile technologies are used, m-learning. These domains contribute to a personalised learning model promotes self-directed learning as students take charge and are responsible for their own learning.\n\nThis department oversees financial policies regarding the various educational institutes that provides administrative support to schools relating to financial assistance, revenue operations and school funds. Financial assistance schemes include subsidies, allowances, and grants funded by the government, that are applied according to income levels and other factors, such as age or institution. There are also scholarships and awards accorded by merit; however, these may also be reserved for some particular categories of students.\n\nThis department's primary role is to develop safe and effective programmes for educating students on healthy living and physical education. This involves a mastery in a certain sport and a focus on acquiring basic movement skills. The department develops curriculum based on sequential key stage outcomes and the physical abilities of students. An instructional model may be used as a plan for teaching that includes a theoretical foundation, learning outcomes, sequenced activities and unique task structures. The department may promote parental involvement through partnerships with families and communities and may also rely on support from dieticians, physiotherapists, community health services and sporting associations.\n\nThe primary goals of the human resources department are attracting, developing, and retaining staff in the education ministry. They formulate operational policies and systems that directly affect staff's performance and attitudes. The objectives of the department include a review of organisational structures and procedures, staff skills development and enhancement, and leadership succession and transitions. These are aimed at fostering greater staff involvement and expansion, eventually leading to the overall goals of the education system.\n\nInformation technology refers to the harnessing of high-quality and calibre technology to facilitate efficient administration, management and hence education. This requires the need for perpetual, up-to-date staff training to ensure educators of all levels are fully equipped with the skill sets needed; hence the managerial level has to identify and conceptualise relevant information that is needed to be taught to teachers for the implementation of these IT systems. It is also essential to ensure that these IT systems are reliable, accessible and well assimilated by educators. The department faces numerous challenges as IT systems are vulnerable to perpetrators and hackers. A period of close examination during integration may be necessary to guarantee that educators are using the new applications relevantly and correctly. The information management team is also required to conduct surveys to reflect if the implications of new IT policies in the real-world scenario.\n\nThe department is at the forefront of ensuring that students with disabilities are able to participate in the student curriculum on the same basis as their peers. It involves all schools including specialists schools and support classes. This is key to contributing to fair and equal student diversity. Special support services include reasonable adjustments, consultations, and personalised learning. Allied educators are important in providing a high quality of interaction with each child. In addition, a multidisciplinary team consisting of psychologists, special educators, and therapists, is crucial in fostering appropriate and meaningful learning.\n\nSpecial Education is aimed to facilitate a healthy learning environment for children with special needs or disabilities so that all children can gain an insightful and fruitful learning experience. Special Education can take place on two fronts, firstly, in mainstream schools and secondly, in specialised schools. The appropriate choice of learning institution depends on the child's needs and the relevant services available. For example, children may display learning difficulties and/or require additional materials while learning. Relevant courses are designed for children with disabilities such as Autism Spectrum Disorders, Intellectual Disability, Visual Impairment, Hearing Loss and Cerebral Palsy. Additional assistance may be provided by applicable social service organisations, non-government organisations, voluntary welfare organisations, and corporate partners.\n\nThis department's primary role is to create curriculum and programmes that help promote character, arts, citizenship and moral education, and global awareness. They operate on the mission of promoting individual student excellence, inciting collaboration and discovery, and challenge students to take responsibility. This will equip students with future-ready qualities prepared with 21st-century competencies. Furthermore, schools adopt numerous guiding principles that focus on values, collaboration, culture, integration to approach student development programmes. Overseas learning opportunities could be integrated to enable students to become more aware of diverse cultures and backgrounds, with the goal of global connectivity and collaboration.\n\nThe ministries and departments of education are responsible for the \"design, implementation, monitoring and evaluation of educational legislation, policies, and programmes\". They provide structured support in strategic leadership, human resources, budget and administrative and management to ensure that the education system functions effectively and efficiently at the optimum levels.\n\nThe Board of Education and Principals are responsible for the management of daily operations of the institution.\n\nThe school board formulates policies and has decision-making powers. Furthermore, their responsibilities include the regulation of the budget for school expenditure, formulation of strategic vision and mission for the school, and review and enhancement of school policies. Additionally, the school board monitors school performance and report to key stakeholders such as the Director-General and parents. They are also important in build collaborations with community partners such as parents, government and non-government organisations. It is also important to note that the Board of Education can make legal decisions on behalf of the school such as entering contracts and the provision of land.\n\nThe principal serves a professional and administrative role in the function of the school. Together with the school board, they chart the strategic goals of the school which reflect the mission, vision, and philosophy of the school. The professional duties of the principal are to supervise teaching and non-teaching staff to coordinate and manage day-to-day operations. They are also in charge of the procurement of necessary resources for the school to achieve its strategic goals, and ensuring the staff are trained and equipped with specialised skills (e.g. first-aid, pedagogical practices). Principals are also required to engage parents and community partners and communicate Key Performance Index with the Ministry of Education.\n\nPrincipals \"build school culture\" to sustain enhancement programmes and campaigns within the institution.\n\nThe strategic goals of a school include achieving excellence and engagement in learning, building character and leadership, develop staff competencies, collaborative partnerships, holistic education, quality student outcomes, lifelong learners, and future-ready.\n\nTeachers plan and implement lessons based on pedagogical practices in educational frameworks. They are also required to manage and update student portfolios to recognise, and assess the diverse domains of development. These domains of development include social, emotional, intellectual, physical, moral and aesthetic. Pedagogical practices are supported by the curriculum philosophy, the goals and objectives of the subject matter, the individual student learning and developmental needs, as well as the teaching profession. The processes involved in educational management at the educator's level are similar to that of the educational ministry. However, the planning, managing, developing and monitoring focuses on individual students specifically. Teachers also adopt classroom management strategies, incorporate instructional approaches that promote independence, discipline, and positive learning mindsets. The teacher's classroom management style influences many aspects of the learning environment. The four styles of classroom management include Authoritarian, Authoritative, Permissive and Disengaged. Furthermore, teachers utilise a variety of positive guidance and discipline strategies to refocus the student's attention or manage conflicts and disagreements.\n\nThe structure of Australia's education system is bureaucratic in nature. The national and state departments of education are responsible for the regulation of funding of education.\n\nThe education system in Australia is governed by the Department of Education and Training which is responsible for national policies and programs. Each state is responsible for the delivery and coordination of their state run programmes and policies.\n\nThe department reports to two Ministers, while the secretaries are responsible for the delivery of the department's services. These services include corporate strategy, early childhood and childcare, school and youth, higher education, research and international, and skills and training.\n\n\nThe structure of Finland's Education System is bureaucratic in nature.\n\nThe Ministry of Education and Culture comprises\n\n\n\nThe structure of Singapore's education system is functional in nature. Education in Singapore is managed by the Ministry of Education (MOE).\n\nThe organisation structure consists of:\n\n\n\nThe Difference Between Educational Management and Educational Leadership and the Importance of Educational Responsibility in Educational Management Administration & Leadership by Michael Connolly, Chris James and Michael Fertig.\n\nTheories of Educational Management and Leadership: A Review by Majid Ghasemy and Sufean Hussin.\n\nWhat is Educational Management? by Learn.org\n\nUniversal Concepts, Nature, and Basic Principles of Educational Management: Implication for Present Day School Management by Nwachukwu Prince Ololube, Erebagha Theophilus, Ingiabuna Ii, and Comfort N. Agbor.\n"}
{"id": "50404381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50404381", "title": "Escambia Academy", "text": "Escambia Academy\n\nEscambia Academy is a private school in Atmore, Alabama, United States, enrolling 218 students in grades K4–12. It was founded in 1970 as a segregation academy.\n\nEscambia Academy is a member of the Alabama Independent School Association (AISA). Escambia Academy is fully accredited by AdvancED.\n\nEscambia uses a school gun raffle as a fund raising tool.\n\nEscambia Academy's varsity teams compete athletically in the Alabama Independent School Association.\n\nAISA State Championships\nRegion Championships\n\n"}
{"id": "36245595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36245595", "title": "Georgetown Leadership Seminar", "text": "Georgetown Leadership Seminar\n\nThe Georgetown Leadership Seminar (GLS) is an annual gathering of selected rising leaders from around the world for a week of intensive discussion on major international issues. The program was established in 1982 by Georgetown University in order to promote dialogue among individuals who would shape the futures of their countries. GLS attracts individuals from government, corporations, law firms, financial institutions, the military, international organizations, NGOs, the media, universities, think tanks, and elsewhere who occupy positions of influence and have the potential to move up to greater leadership roles. The selected participants are then exposed to the major global issues and the Washington foreign policy-making process through direct contact with top level policy makers and experts. The program is derived from Harvard’s “international seminar” conducted by Henry Kissinger in the 1950s and 1960s. The GLS is now administered by the Institute for the Study of Diplomacy at the School of Foreign Service at Georgetown. Original committee members included Zbigniew Brzezinski, Madeleine Albright, Henry Kissinger, and Peter F. Krogh.\n\nThe core belief underlying the GLS is that successful leaders in a globalized world must continually work to improve their understanding of international affairs and connect to an international network. This is accomplished through three distinct goals:\n\n\nSince 1982, the GLS has attracted a variety of speakers who have served in important policy-making and business roles:\n\n\nGLS has over 800 alumni from more than 100 countries, including presidents, prime ministers, cabinet secretaries, generals, ambassadors, and CEOs:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34760300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34760300", "title": "Georgian Institute of Public Affairs", "text": "Georgian Institute of Public Affairs\n\nThe Georgian Institute of Public Affairs (GIPA) () was created in 1994 in Tbilisi, Georgia. Four separate schools of the Institute offer MA, BA programs and training courses in the spheres of Public Affairs, Local Governance, Journalism, International Affairs and Law, as well as a PhD program in the social sciences. GIPA is considered as one of the top three universities in Georgia, alongside the Free University of Tbilisi and Tbilisi State University.\n\nThe Georgian Institute of Public Affairs is a national center for development of practices in Public Administration, Law, Politics and Journalism. Since its establishment, GIPA brought together leaders from business, media, civil society and public services to contribute to developing effective governance at state, municipal and local levels as well as independent and viable media in Georgia through interactive education programs, research and training.\n\nApart from graduate degree and certified training programs, GIPA carries out many research and training projects. It also publishes student newspaper \"Brosse Street Journal\" and manages the first English-language and student run Radio GIPA.\n\nThere are four schools and two programs at GIPA:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1643363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1643363", "title": "Induction loop", "text": "Induction loop\n\nAn induction or inductive loop is an electromagnetic communication or detection system which uses a moving magnet or an alternating current to induce an electric current in a nearby wire. Induction loops are used for transmission and reception of communication signals, or for detection of metal objects in metal detectors or vehicle presence indicators. A common modern use for induction loops is to provide hearing assistance to hearing-aid users.\n\nAn audio induction loop provides assistance to hearing aid users. The system has one or more loops in the area in which a hearing aid user would be present. Many different configurations can be used depending on the application. Such an induction loop receiver is classically a very small iron-cored inductor (telecoil). The system commonly uses an analog power amplifier matched to the low impedance of the transmission loop. The transmission is normally direct rather than superimposed or modulated upon a carrier, though multi-channel systems have been implemented using modulation. Many hearing aids contain a telecoil which allows the user to receive and hear the magnetic field and remove the normal audio signal provided from the hearing aid microphone site. These loops are often referred to as a hearing loop or audio induction loop. \n\nSince there is no \"tuning\" available, as the telecoil directly picks up all audio-frequency magnetic fields, careful system design is required where more than one induction loop is used in a building; for example, adjacent movie theatres or lecture halls. Telecoils may also pick up noise from non-audio sources such as power lines, lamps, or CRT monitors.\n\nVehicle detection loops, called \"inductive-loop traffic detectors\", can detect vehicles passing or arriving at a certain point, for instance approaching a traffic light or in motorway traffic. An insulated, electrically conducting loop is installed in the pavement. The electronics unit transmits energy into the wire loops at frequencies between 10 kHz to 200 kHz, depending on the model. The inductive-loop system behaves as a tuned electrical circuit in which the loop wire and lead-in cable are the inductive elements. When a vehicle passes over the loop or is stopped within the loop, the vehicle induces eddy currents in the wire loops, which decrease their inductance. The decreased inductance actuates the electronics unit output relay or solid-state optically isolated output, which sends a pulse to the traffic signal controller signifying the passage or presence of a vehicle. Parking structures for automobiles may use inductive loops to track traffic (occupancy) in and out or may be used by access gates or ticketing systems to detect vehicles while others use Parking guidance and information systems. Railways may use an induction loop to detect the passage of trains past a given point, as an electronic treadle.\n\nThe relatively crude nature of the loop's structure means that only metal masses above a certain size are capable of triggering the relay. This is good in that the loop does not thus produce very many \"false positive\" triggers (say, for example, by a pedestrian crossing the loop with a pocket full of loose metal change) but it sometimes also means that bicycles, scooters, and motorcycles stopped at such intersections may never be detected by them (and therefore risk being ignored by the switch/signal). Most loops can be manually adjusted to consistently detect the presence of scooters and motorcycles at the least.\n\nInductance loops have also been used to classify types of vehicles.Sampling the loop at a high frequency results in a unique signature for each vehicle allowing for classification of the body type. \n\nA different sort of \"induction loop\" is applied to metal detectors, where a large coil, which forms part of a resonant circuit, is effectively \"detuned\" by the coil's proximity to a conductive object.\nThe detected object may be metallic (metal and cable detection) or conductive/capacitive (stud/cavity detection).\nOther configurations of this equipment use two or more receiving coils, and the detected object modifies the inductive coupling or alters the phase angle of the voltage induced in the receiving coils relative to the oscillator coil.\n\nAn anti-submarine indicator loop was a device used to detect submarines and surface vessels using specially designed submerged cables connected to a galvanometer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25906048", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25906048", "title": "Inquiry in motion", "text": "Inquiry in motion\n\nInquiry in motion (IIM) has a goal of improving the motivation, potential, and achievement of students and teachers through sustained engagement in science, math, engineering, and technology. IIM achieves increased teaching performance and improved student achievement largely by providing numerous support structures for teachers as they learn to facilitate more inquiry-based learning environments that are well aligned with constructivist learning philosophies.\n\nA dynamic lesson-planning tool for K–12 math and science teachers is one central component of the IIM program. Within the Tool, teachers can use \"Public Lessons\" as is, modify an existing lesson by moving it into \"My WorkSpace\", or create \"New Lessons\" for public or personal viewing.\n\nLessons from the Lesson Planning Tool integrate key concepts (essential ideas) into an inquiry-based learning environment and are based on the 4E x 2 Instructional Model. The 4E x 2 Instructional Model is based on the premise that student achievement increases when teachers effectively incorporate three critical learning constructs into their teaching practice: (1) inquiry instruction, (2) formative assessment, and (3) teacher reflection. 4E x 2 Instructional Model has been published in numerous research and practitioner publications \n\nTeacher success implementing inquiry-based instruction can be measured using EQUIP (Electronic Quality of Inquiry Protocol). EQUIP is a descriptive rubric designed to measure the degree to which inquiry-based instruction is occurring in the classroom and contains nineteen indicators (e.g., instructional strategies, questioning ecology) and five constructs (e.g., instruction, assessment). Reliability and validity was tested during the three-year development and refinement process.\n\nIn 2008–2009, the data from the MAP (Measure of Academic Progress) test show a clear difference among the growth seen on Virtual Control Group (students from other districts with similar demographic composition), the Control Group (non-participating teachers from Greenville County), and the Study Group (participants in the Inquiry in Motion program). Specifically, the data show that the students of participating teachers significantly outperformed the students of non-participating teachers from their same school. Both groups also exceeded the performance of students from the virtual control group. These trends were seen for student performance in both science content and science process. The implication is that as the quantity and quality of inquiry-based instruction improves, so too does student achievement.\n"}
{"id": "6306937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6306937", "title": "International Medical Education Directory", "text": "International Medical Education Directory\n\nThe International Medical Education Directory (IMED) was a public database of worldwide medical schools. The IMED was published as a joint collaboration of the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) and the Foundation for Advancement of International Medical Education and Research (FAIMER).\n\nThe information available in IMED was derived from data collected by the Educational Commission for Foreign Medical Graduates (ECFMG) throughout its history of evaluating the medical education credentials of international medical graduates. Using these data as a starting point, Foundation for Advancement of International Medical Education and Research (FAIMER) began developing \"IMED\" in 2001 and made it publicly available in April 2002.\n\nIn April 2014, IMED was merged with the Avicenna Directory to create the World Directory of Medical Schools. The World Directory is now the definitive list of medical schools in the world, as IMED and Avicenna were discontinued in 2015.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2043808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2043808", "title": "International School of New Media", "text": "International School of New Media\n\nInternational School of New Media (short ISNM) in Lübeck, Germany was an international, affiliated private institute at the University of Lübeck. It was closed end of 2011.\n\nISNM was established in 2001 by founding director Hubertus von Amelunxen for the purpose of providing a course that combines the technological, scientific, social, economical, and cultural aspects and implications of New Media.\n\nAt the ISNM, students work and study with peers with diverse cultural and educational backgrounds. For instance, architects, computer scientists, artists, and sociologists can work together on a project as a team.\n\nUntil 2008, ISNM offered a graduate program conducted entirely in English leading to an award of a \"M.Sc. in Digital Media\" degree. The 24-month-long program received international accreditation by ZeVA Hannover. The M.Sc. in Digital Media program provided academic training in interdisciplinary media competence. It connected Media Technology, Computer Science, design and e-commerce with the New Media in the arts, culture and society. The M.Sc. degree qualified students for positions at the intersections of digital media in business, industry, research, education, tourism and international organisations, among others.\n\nThe ISNM’s interdisciplinary graduate program in Digital Media aimed at creating decision-makers and managers in every sector and discipline with a more complete understanding of digital media's role in the 21st century’s global world and market. The program followed a concerted strategy to reach this goal by providing a unique combination of technology, business, research, arts, design and culture in the Digital Media sector. Substantial emphasis was placed on the transfer of learning from the university to the work setting and an integration of students’ diverse backgrounds into interdisciplinary project management and intercultural teamwork.\n\nISNM founders have set the standard for the faculty whose teaching and research is consistently influencing New Media practices. The faculty is a group with honors and research awards on their credits.\n\n"}
{"id": "26198049", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26198049", "title": "Jabbar Baghtcheban", "text": "Jabbar Baghtcheban\n\nMirza Jabbar Asgarzadeh (Persian:میرزا جبار عسگرزاده) famously known as Jabbar Baghtcheban (Persian: جبار باغچه بان) was an Iranian inventor of Iranian Azerbaijani ethnicity. He is well known as someone who established the first Iranian kindergarten and the first deaf school in Tabriz. He was also the inventor of Persian language cued speech. He was the father of the late Iranian composer Samin Baghcheban.\n\nMirza Jabbar Asgarzadeh was born in Yerevan, Armenia. His origin was from Tabriz or Urmia in the Iranian Azerbaijan region. The first kindergarten he established was called the \"baghch-e atfal\" (Persian: باغچه اطفال) which means the \"kids garden\". That is why he was given the nickname \"baghcheban\" (Persian: باغچه بان) which literally means \"gardener\" in the Persian language. \nHe founded a school for the deaf in 1924. That school was located next to his kindergarten. In 1928 he wrote the first Iranian children's book in Persian. The book was called \"baba barfi\" (Persian: بابابرفی) which means means \"snow daddy\" in Persian.\n"}
{"id": "13203255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13203255", "title": "James E. Krier", "text": "James E. Krier\n\nJames E. Krier is the Earl Warren DeLano Professor of Law at the University of Michigan Law School and the father of performer Andrew W.K. His teaching and research interests are primarily in the fields of property, contracts, and law and economics, and he teaches or has taught courses on contracts, property, trusts and estates, behavioral law and economics, and pollution policy.\n\nKrier earned his B.S. with honors and his J.D. with highest honors from the University of Wisconsin–Madison, where he was articles editor of the \"Wisconsin Law Review\". After his graduation from law school in 1966 he served for one year as law clerk to the Hon. Roger J. Traynor, Chief Justice of the Supreme Court of California, and then practiced law for two years with Arnold & Porter in Washington, D.C. He was a professor of law at UCLA School of Law and Stanford Law School before joining the Michigan Law faculty in 1983, and has been a visiting professor at Harvard Law School, Oxford University, University of Alabama School of Law and Cardozo School of Law. In 2012, he was awarded the Brigham-Kanner Property Rights Prize from William & Mary Law School.\n\nKrier is the father of musician/inspirational speaker Andrew W.K.\n\nKrier is the author or co-author of several books, including \"Environmental Law and Policy\", \"Pollution and Policy\", and the widely used casebook \"Property\" (6th edition) with Dukeminier. His recent articles have been published in the \"Harvard Law Review\", the \"Supreme Court Economic Review\", and the \"UCLA Law Review\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3551074", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3551074", "title": "Joey Cavalieri", "text": "Joey Cavalieri\n\nJoey Cavalieri is an American writer and editor of comic books. He is best known for his work on the characters Green Arrow and the Huntress for DC Comics.\n\nJoey Cavalieri first joined DC Comics full-time in 1982 after working three years as a freelancer. His writing credits for DC include the Green Arrow back-up feature in \"Detective Comics\"; both the pre-Crisis version of the \"Huntress\" in a back-up feature in \"Wonder Woman\" and the post-Crisis version of the character in an ongoing series; \"Captain Carrot and His Amazing Zoo Crew!\" and its spinoff \"The Oz-Wonderland War\"; \"The Flash\"; and \"World's Finest Comics\". A \"New Teen Titans\" drug awareness comic book sponsored by IBM and scripted by Cavalieri was published in cooperation with The President's Drug Awareness Campaign in 1984. That same year, he scripted the \"Super Powers\" limited series which tied-in with the Kenner Products toyline of the same name. Cavalieri and artist Jerome K. Moore introduced a new costume for the Black Canary character in \"Detective Comics\" #554 (Sept. 1985). In 1985, Cavalieri was one of the contributing writers for the company's 50th anniversary publication \"Fifty Who Made DC Great\". He was group editor of the Marvel 2099 series from 1992 until 1996 before returning to DC. The first \"Black Cat\" limited series was co-written by Cavalieri and Terry Kavanagh in 1994.\nHe has been recognized for his work with nominations for the Comics Buyer's Guide Fan Award for Favorite Editor every year from 1997 through 2000, and again from 2002 to 2004. In 2005, DC promoted him to Senior Editor.\n\nHe also teaches cartooning classes at the School of Visual Arts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53841468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53841468", "title": "Lauren K. Alleyne", "text": "Lauren K. Alleyne\n\nLauren K. Alleyne is an award-winning Trinidadian-American poet, fiction, and nonfiction writer and educator born and raised in the dual-island Caribbean nation of Trinidad and Tobago.\n\nIn 1997, Alleyne moved to the United States to begin her undergraduate studies in Radiologic Science and Nuclear Medical Technology at St. Francis College in New York. It was not until her junior year that Alleyne decided to shift her focus towards English. She then graduated with honors from St. Francis College with a Bachelor of Arts in English Literature. In 2002, she received her Masters of Fine Arts in English with an emphasis on creative writing from Iowa State. Finally, in January 2006, she received her Master of Fine Arts in Creative Writing, as well as a graduate certificate in Feminist, Gender, and Sexuality studies from Cornell University. Alleyne is also a graduate of Cave Canem, a non-profit literary service organization with administrative and programming headquarters that works to promote and advance under-represented African-American poets in the literary world, and provide an environment that fosters the growth of African-American voices and artistry. In addition to serving her talents in the literary community, Alleyne also worked as the Poet-in-Residence and as an Assistant Professor in English at the University of Dubuque in Iowa. Currently, Alleyne works as an Associate Professor in English, and the Assistant Director of the Furious Flower Poetry Center at James Madison University in Virginia.\n\nAlleyne's poems and articles have appeared in many literary journals, including \"Affilia\", \"Small Axe Project\", and \"Women's Studies Quarterly\", and in anthologies such as \"Gathering Ground: A Reader Celebrating Cave Canem's First Decade\" and \"Let Spirit Speak! Cultural Journeys Through the African Diaspora\".\n\nAlleyne has received many awards and accolades, including the following:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8772471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8772471", "title": "List of television series about school", "text": "List of television series about school\n\n\"This is a list of television series about, or set in schools or classrooms. It also includes television shows about school teachers and students as well.\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n. .. Chicken And Cow (2000-2001)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3790729", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3790729", "title": "List of unrecognized higher education accreditation organizations", "text": "List of unrecognized higher education accreditation organizations\n\nThis is a list of unrecognized higher education accreditation organizations, as identified by the organizations themselves, government authorities in their respective countries, or other independent authorities. This article includes entities that are engaged in higher education accreditation or have been identified as being accreditors, but which lack appropriate recognition or authorization.\n\nPrerequisites and rules for higher education accreditation vary from country to country. In most countries, the function of quality assurance for higher education institutions is conducted by a government ministry of education. However in the United States, educational accreditation is performed primarily by private nonprofit membership associations, the legitimacy of which is validated through recognition by the United States Department of Education (USDE), the Council for Higher Education Accreditation (CHEA), or both. USDE and CHEA recognize many of the independent accrediting organizations, but not all. Accreditors seek USDE or CHEA recognition for different reasons; for example, USDE recognition is required for accreditors whose institutions or programs seek eligibility for federal student aid funds. CHEA recognition confers an academic legitimacy on accrediting organizations, helping to solidify the place of these organizations and their institutions and programs in the national higher education community.\n\nOften, a school relying on accreditation from an unrecognized accrediting body will not be viewed as legitimate in the academic community. Institutional accreditation is usually required by US institutions to receive federal government funds. Also, students who attend institutions of higher education that are accredited through organizations not recognized by the USDE or CHEA do not qualify for US government financial aid. Similarly, employers or graduate programs cannot be confident that graduates of an unaccredited institution or program will be appropriately prepared.\n\nTo assist education consumers, several national and international bodies publish lists of recognized accreditation bodies and accredited educational institutions, as well as lists of other accreditors that are known to lack the necessary legal authority or recognition, and higher education providers known to lack accreditation. The United States organization CHEA maintains an international directory of education ministries and other recognized higher education quality assurance bodies worldwide. The 2007 version of that directory lists 467 recognized bodies in 175 countries.\n\nMany, but not all, of the entities in the list below are considered to be fraudulent accreditation mills that were set up to help diploma mills lure students and whose \"accreditation\" has no legal or academic value. Some diploma and degree mills have played a role in creating these accrediting bodies as well. These diploma and degree mills may further confuse matters by claiming to consider work history, professional education, or previous learning, and may even require the submission of a purported dissertation or thesis, in order to give an added appearance of legitimacy. Some other listed entities are religious accreditation bodies, whose accreditation may have doctrinal significance but lacks recognized academic value.\n\nAlso included are some organizations that do not offer educational accreditation but have been falsely identified as accrediting bodies by organizations that claim to have been accredited by them. A notable example of this last type is UNESCO, which does not have authority to recognize or accredit higher education institutions or agencies. Nonetheless, because diploma mills have claimed false UNESCO accreditation, UNESCO itself has published warnings against education organizations that claim UNESCO recognition or affiliation.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10433433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10433433", "title": "Living Values", "text": "Living Values\n\n10. ^ Tillman, by Diane G. (March 1998). \"Parenting for the 21st Century, a Values-Based Approach Living Values: Αn Educational Initiative\". Education for the 21st Century in the Asia-Pacific Region, UNESCO Conference Melbourne, Australia..\n12. ^ http://www.tolovechildren.org/resources/newsletters/May.pdf\n13. ^ http://www.livingvalues.net/pdf/LVEP%20Overview,%20April%202009.pdf\n\n"}
{"id": "57010991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57010991", "title": "Mason Morgan", "text": "Mason Morgan\n\nMason Morgan is a fictional character from the Australian soap opera \"Home and Away\", played by Orpheus Pledger. The actor relocated to Sydney from Melbourne upon being offered the role. He began filming his first scenes in early December 2015. Pledger made his first appearance as Mason during the episode broadcast on 7 June 2016. \n\nMason was introduced to the show along with his three older siblings; Tori Morgan (Penny McNamee), Justin Morgan (James Stewart) and Brody Morgan (Jackson Heywood). Mason is portrayed as being a positive, family orientated \"free spirit\". He is studying to be a doctor like his sister, who he shares a close bond with. For the first few weeks after their arrival, Mason and his siblings concealed the fact that they were in witness protection. Mason was the first member of the family to reveal the secret, which resulted in them being held hostage. \n\nSubsequent storylines for Mason have revolved around his romantic relationships with Evelyn MacGuire (Phillipa Northeast), Olivia Fraser Richards (Raechelle Banno), and Beth Ellis (Anneliese Apps), with the latter helping to bring awareness to organ donation in Australia. The character has also been used to show the effects of temporary paralysis, after he is injured in a car crash with his brother Brody.\n\nOn 5 December 2015, Jonathon Moran from \"The Daily Telegraph\" reported actors Orpheus Pledger, Jackson Heywood and James Stewart had joined the cast of \"Home and Away\" as brothers Mason, Brody and Justin Morgan respectively. The family drew immediate comparisons to the show's Braxton brothers, who were introduced to the show in 2011. All three actors began filming their first scenes during the following week, ahead of their on-screen debut in 2016. Pledger was living with his mother and brother in Melbourne when he was offered the role of Mason, which required him to move to Sydney, where the show's studios are located. Pledger said his 2011 role as Noah Parkin on fellow Australian soap opera \"Neighbours\" helped him prepare for the workload and the pace of filming. Pledger made his first appearance on 7 June 2016, alongside Heywood and Stewart.\n\nAhead of his screen debut, Pledger described Mason as having a \"positive outlook on life\", being family orientated, and \"a hopeless romantic\". He also said Mason \"leads with his gut and stands up for what he believes in and will always stick up for the little guy.\" Pledger later called his character \"a free spirit\" and a positive person to be around. The actor explained that following the death of their parents, Mason's siblings helped him to grow up and unlike them, Mason has not had to take on many responsibilities. Of the comparisons to the Braxton brothers, Heywood said the Morgans had a different dynamic, while Pledger added that family comes first for the Morgans. Mason is a medical student, who struggles to fit in a social life in between studying and working out in the gym. Pledger called Tori a good role model for Mason and as a result, they share a very close relationship. \n\nPledger shares some similarities with Mason, particularly his dedication to attaining his dream job. The actor explained, \"I've done that in my life with acting. Maybe it's not the same formality as studying to be a doctor and having to do a seven-year introduction to it before you even start but, definitely, if I was passionate about it, I would definitely do it.\" The character's appearance changed in 2017 when Pledger shaved his \"trademark\" curly hair in favour of a shorter haircut. Pledger later said that he thought a shorter haircut was best for his character at that point, but that he was beginning to grow it longer for Mason again.\n\nMason, Justin and Brody, along with their dog Buddy, are almost involved in a car crash with Martin \"Ash\" Ashford (George Mason) while they are driving to Summer Bay to join their sister, Tori. Ash swerves across the road in front of them while texting. After coming to a stop, Justin immediately gets out of the car to confront Ash, and Brody and Mason desperately try to keep them from getting into a physical fight. The Morgans continue their journey to the Bay, where they find Ash talking with Tori and Alf Stewart (Ray Meagher) on the beach and another fight almost breaks out, until Tori reveals that Justin, Brody and Mason are her brothers. Ash accepts that he was in the wrong, while Justin is glad his family have made it to the Bay safely. The siblings also wonder if they will be able to stay in their new home, leading to the start of their first major storyline.\n\nAn \"Inside Soap\" columnist observed that the Morgans had been hiding something about their past from the Bay's residents. They initially keep to themselves and Justin warns Tori against befriending local doctor Nate Cooper (Kyle Pryor). Stewart explained that there were a set of rules that the Morgans had to live by, which related to their secret. While studying at home one day, Mason is visited by his former girlfriend Lara Adams (Elle Harris). Lara tells Mason off for not staying in contact with her. Justin arrives home shortly after and finds Lara and Mason together. He orders Lara to leave, while warning Mason that he has compromised the family. Stewart confirmed that Justin's reaction had something to do with the family's secret. Lara comes to the hospital to see Mason, who asks her to leave in case she is seen. Later, while he is looking for Lara, Mason comes across an upset Evelyn MacGuire (Philippa Northeast) and he comforts her. Lara sees them together and assumes Mason is also dating Evie. In an effort to reconnect with Lara, Mason tells her that his family are in witness protection. Later that day, Brody mentions that he is being followed, so Mason admits that he told Lara about their secret. Justin decides that they need to pack up and leave.\n\nAfter Tori is threatened by Spike Lowe (Jason Montgomery), the family's police liaison officer Atticus Decker (John Adam) has them moved to a safe house. As they wait to find out where they will be moved to next, the family agree that they are tired of running from the people who killed their parents. When his siblings begin arguing, Mason slips outside to meet up with Lara. However, he soon learns that she is working for Spike and Blaine Varden (Ashley Lyons), the man who killed the Morgan's parents. Spike and Blaine trick Mason into telling them where the safe house is and they hold the family hostage. Blaine produces a gun and threatens to kill them all, before revealing that Justin knew the truth about the circumstances that led to their parents' deaths. Mason is one of nine characters involved in a plane crash, after Spike sabotages a plane being used for Tori's birthday trip. Justin attempts to warn the pilot, Duncan Stewart (Benedict Wall), but a broken pipe leaks carbon dioxide into the cabin and everyone passes out. However, Duncan does manage to crash land the plane in the sand first. While most of the passengers escape major injury, Mason is \"panic-stricken\" when he realises that Brody is missing.\n\nLater developments in the storyline saw the Morgans meet Decker's nieces Hope (Jessica Falkholt) and Raffy Morrison (Olivia Deeble). They soon realise that Raffy could be their half-sister, after Decker admits to having an affair with their mother. A DNA test confirms their suspicions, but before they tell Raffy, Hope steals Mason's car and attempts to leave town with her. The Morgans eventually tell Raffy she is their half-sister and that they had to go into witness protection because their parents were killed by drug dealers. The Morgan's secret is soon revealed to the rest of the Bay in the local newspaper.\n\nMason shares a drunken kiss with Evie after a night out. The following week, they have dinner together and Mason confronts Evie about her drinking and partying. However, instead of talking to him about her issues, Evie just kisses Mason again and they have sex. They agree to a friends with benefits arrangement. Mason becomes concerned when Evie insists that she survived the plane crash because her deceased brother Oscar MacGuire (Jake Speer) is watching over her. Determined to prove her theory, Evie takes Mason out in her car and begins driving recklessly, as she is convinced that she will not crash. Mason is \"petrified\" by her stunt and when they stop, he \"lets rip at her\". Mason eventually develops feelings for Evie, but she reacts angrily to his admission and tells him she is not interested in a relationship with him. A reporter for \"The Daily Telegraph\" noted the arrangement would not last long, after Northeast was photographed filming a kissing scene with Alec Snow, who plays Matt Page.\n\nProducers later paired Mason with Olivia Fraser Richards (Raechelle Banno) and formed a love triangle storyline with her ex-boyfriend Hunter King (Scott Lee). Mason shows an interest in dating Olivia and she is \"drawn to him\". Pledger told Alison Gardner of \"What's on TV\" that Mason \"really likes\" Olivia and readily accepts her invitation to accompany her to the formal. The pair soon learn that Hunter is also attending, and Mason realises that Olivia still has feelings for him. Olivia leaves Mason at the bar and begins dancing with Hunter, but she explains that she was just passing the time while she waited for Mason to return. Pledger continued, \"As the evening goes on, it's clear Olivia's still into Hunter. Mason's had so much to deal with because of his family's problems that he doesn't need Olivia to bring him even more heartache.\" The following morning, Olivia visits Mason at the lifeguard station, where he is starting his new job, to tell him that what happened with Hunter meant nothing, but Mason replies that he does not need any more stress in his life. Later that day, Mason gets into a fight with Hunter. Pledger said that Mason \"acts completely out of character\" when he hits Hunter and is left feeling ashamed after Alf breaks up the fight.\n\nOlivia asks Mason if they can start their relationship over, but Mason rejects the idea. However, when they attend the Summer Grooves music festival, Mason and Olivia kiss. Olivia later admits to Mason that she is worried about Hunter's decision not to return to school and he attempts to talk to Hunter, as he is annoyed that she is worrying about him all the time. They pair have to separated by Alf again, and Lee commented that while Hunter does not have a friendship with Mason, he wants to get better at dealing with things. Mason and Olivia are soon caught having sex at the Summer Bay Auto garage by Brody and Irene Roberts (Lynne McGranger). When Mason comes to The Diner to help Olivia out, he notices she is acting strangely. He soon learns from Alf that Hunter helped Olivia at The Diner the night before, leaving Olivia feeling guilty she did not tell Mason herself. Mason then confronts Hunter and asks him if he wants to get back together with Olivia, but Hunter says no. Mason and Olivia's relationship becomes strained as he worries that she still has feelings for Hunter, and when she admits that he is right, but wants to still date him, Mason breaks up with her.\n\nA new love interest for Mason was introduced in the form of guest character Beth Ellis (Anneliese Apps) in August 2017. Beth tells Mason that she is a nurse and they soon bond while he is a patient in the hospital. Beth's friendship helps Mason's recovery from injuries he sustained in a car crash. While looking for Beth, Mason soon learns that she is actually a patient. Mason is \"furious\" that Beth has lied to him, but she soon reveals that she is dying. Beth explains that she needs a heart transplant, after being diagnosed with a serious heart condition five years prior. Mason urges Beth not to give up hope that she will get the transplant and they share \"a heartfelt moment\", which led a \"New Idea\" columnist to speculate that they could be more than just friends. Mason later asks Beth out on a date and she accepts. Of their romance, Pledger told Tamara Cullen of \"TV Week\", \"Beth brings out the best in Mason. He's playful and has no inhibitions with her.\" When Mason finds Beth's bucket list, she tells him that she accepts that she is not getting any better and is starting to reconsider her treatment. When Mason tries to reassure her that she will be fine, Beth gets angry and Mason is forced to apologise. He then surprises her with a champagne lunch, where they bond further and kiss. Pledger commented, \"Mason has never had a connection with anyone else like this.\"\n\nMason finds Beth's bucket list and sees that she has fun and \"romantically charged\" things on it, which Mason wants to help her complete. Mason comes up with the idea of a James Bond style trip to the casino. During the journey, Beth passes out while she driving. Mason is \"petrified\" and worried about the harm to Beth's health. He is also left feeling helpless as he cannot do anything about her condition. Mason asks to meets Beth's parents, but she is reluctant. However, Mason later meets Beth and her father Alan Ellis (Blair McDonough) at the beach, so he introduces himself. Alan is unaware that his daughter is dating anyone, but he invites Mason to lunch with Beth and her mother Jackie (Rachael Coopes), where Mason tries to make a good impression. Both Apps and Pledger hoped Beth and Mason's storyline would raise more awareness about organ donation in Australia. Pledger also thought the plot could increase the amount of people willing to be organ donors. Both actors found the storyline tough to film, with Pledger calling it \"a harrowing experience\". The storyline concludes with Beth's death. Mason wants to make the most of the time they have left and organises a lunch on the beach. But Beth collapses and Mason rushes her to the hospital, where she tells him she loves him. Beth goes into cardiac arrest and dies.\n\nMason becomes a victim of his brother Brody's drug addiction when they are in a car crash together, which leaves him with temporary paralysis. The storyline begins when Mason finds Brody searching through the bin for drugs, as he is suffering a relapse. Mason knows that Brody needs help, so he manages to get Brody into his car to drive him to rehab. During the journey, Brody is convinced that his dealer William Zannis (Caleb Alloway) is following them. He suddenly grabs the wheel, causing the car to leave the road and crash. Brody suffers minor injuries, but Mason's condition deteriorates and he is placed in a coma after he loses the feeling in his hand. Tori is forced to tell Brody, Justin and Raffy that Mason may never walk again, as he has severe spinal damage. The diagnosis prompts Brody to sell his restaurant and leave town for a private rehab. Weeks later, Tori prepares to take Mason off the ventilator and wake him up, so she can assess how much damage there is to his spinal cord. But Mason fails to wake up and a neurosurgeon informs Tori that they will need to wait until the spinal shock has worn off. \n\nDays later, Mason finally wakes and is able to tell Tori that he cannot feel his legs. As he fears that he may never be able to walk again, Mason undergoes a series of tests and is told that once the swelling goes down, he may regain some feeling back. After Mason is discharged from the hospital, Brody attempts to apologise for causing the accident. Mason \"erupts with fury\" and attempts to strangle his brother. Justin and Tori try to get the brothers to reconcile, but they struggle to get through to \"an increasingly-bitter\" Mason. Justin later takes Mason to see their parents' graves to remind him that the family needs to stay together. Mason then accepts Brody's handshake, ending their feud. Pledger later posted a photo of himself walking around the outdoor set on his social media, confirming that Mason would recover from his paralysis.\n\nMason, Brody and Justin Morgan join their sister Tori in Summer Bay. Mason and Brody have to stop Justin from fighting Martin \"Ash\" Ashford, who almost ran them off the road. Days after their arrival, Mason's former girlfriend Lara Adams visits him and they have sex. Justin catches them together and warns Lara to stay away. Mason confronts Justin, forcing Brody to stop them from fighting. Mason starts working at Brody's restaurant as a waiter, while he is also given a placement at the local hospital, where he clashes with his supervisor Nate Cooper. Lara sees Mason comforting Evie MacGuire and when she threatens to break up with him, Mason tells Lara that his family is in witness protection, as their parents were murdered by a drug syndicate. After their cover is exposed, the Morgans leave the Bay for a safe house. Mason slips outside to see Lara, but he is kidnapped by Spike Lowe and Blaine Varden, who Lara has been working for. Blaine threatens to kill the Morgans, before revealing that Justin knew that their father was working for the syndicate and that their mother sacrificed herself to save him. Lara frees Mason and the family are saved by the police and their federal protection officer, Decker. Mason and Tori ask Justin to leave the house, after learning that he lied to them.\n\nMason helps Evie out with a charity sleepover at Summer Bay High. They kiss, but she pulls away and he apologises. When Evie gets drunk at a university party, Mason brings her home and lets her stay on his sofa. While they are studying together, Mason and Evie have sex. They both admit that they are not over their former partners and agree to a friends with benefits arrangement. During a plane trip for Tori's birthday, a carbon monoxide leak causes the passengers and captain to pass out. The plane crashes into the desert and Mason has to treat a pregnant Billie Ashford (Tessa de Josselin), whose amniotic sac is damaged. Mason burns his arm when he pushes Evie out of the way of a fuel explosion. Evie insists that she was saved by her deceased brother and tries to prove that he is protecting her by driving dangerously with Mason in the car. Mason is forced to apply the handbrake to stop them from crashing. Mason realises he has feelings for Evie and wants more than a casual relationship with her. He eventually ends their arrangement. The Morgans learn Decker's niece Raffy Morrison is actually his daughter and their half-sister. Mason is in favour of telling Raffy the truth and attempts to make her feel like part of the family. \n\nAfter noticing Olivia Fraser Richards arguing with her former boyfriend Hunter King, Mason asks her to go for a walk with him. He asks her out on a date, but she turns him down as she is not ready for a new relationship. Olivia invites Mason to escort her to her formal as friends, where she spends most of the night talking and dancing with Hunter. Mason begins working as a lifeguard and gets into a fight with Hunter on his first day. Mason helps Brody out at the Summer Grooves music festival, and he and Olivia kiss, before leaving to go skinny dipping. Mason and Olivia start dating, but he worries that she still has feelings for Hunter. The couple are later caught having sex at Summer Bay Auto. Olivia eventually admits to Mason that she does still have feelings for Hunter, but she wants to carry on dating him; however, Mason breaks up with her. Olivia later sets Mason up with her friend Lena Ascot (Felicity McKay), but nothing comes of it after he finds her dealing drugs at a party. Brody later develops a drug addiction and Mason has to take him to the hospital when he is beaten by his dealer. Mason is forced to work with Hunter at the surf club, where they clash again. Mason refuses to fight Hunter when he challenges him and they eventually become friends. \n\nMason realises Brody is suffering a relapse and drives him to rehab. Brody panics when he sees his dealer following them and grabs the wheel, causing the car to crash. Mason suffers spinal damage and is placed on life support. When he wakes, he realises that he has little feeling in his legs. Beth Ellis visits Mason and cheers him up. She tells him she is a nurse, but Mason soon learns she is a patient, who has cardiomyopathy and needs a heart transplant. Mason helps Beth to complete some things on her bucket list and they kiss. While driving to a casino, Beth collapses and Mason is forced to drive to get help. He later meets Beth's parents and her father Alan asks him to stay away from her, but he changes his mind. Mason and Beth have sex, but Beth collapses at the pier later that night. Mason tries to get her moved up the transplant list and pressures a car crash victim's husband into donating her heart. A complaint is made against him and his placement at the hospital is cancelled. Mason takes Beth out for lunch on the beach where he gives her an eternity ring. However, Beth becomes breathless and Mason rushes her back to the hospital. She goes into cardiac arrest and dies. Mason later sees visions of Beth and attempts to complete the rest of her bucket list.\n\nAfter quitting his university course in the wake of Beth's death, Mason applies for the manager's job at the gym. Willow Harris (Sarah Roberts) also applies and John Palmer's (Shane Withington) gives it to them both. Mason gives Jennifer Dutton (Brittany Santariga) a private boxing lesson and she kisses him, but he pulls away and she makes it seem that he had made an unwelcome advance towards her as Hunter walks in. She apologises after Mason tells her about Beth. Mason befriends Jasmine Delaney (Sam Frost) and they bond over their respective medical careers. Mason decides to return to university and he is allowed to continue his placement at Northern Districts hospital.\n\nJonathon Moran of \"The Daily Telegraph\" predicted that Pledger \"will no doubt be a hit with the young female fans with his buff body.\" Sarah Ellis from \"Inside Soap\" branded Mason, Brody and Justin \"another trio of troublesome brothers\". She also noted their appearances, dubbing them \"a tasty trio\" and \"hunky\". Ali Cromarty and Stephen Downie of \"TV Week\" were impressed by the brothers, commenting, \"Move over Braxtons, there's a new family of hot brothers in Summer Bay.\" They also called them \"loyal, caring and hard-working\". Downie later called the siblings \"the mysterious Morgan brothers\" and pointed out that they landed in \"a whole lot of trouble\" upon their arrival. Daniel Kilkelly from \"Digital Spy\" dubbed the Morgans \"Summer Bay's unluckiest family\". Writing for Stuff.co.nz, Kerry Harvey dubbed Mason \"Summer Bay's good boy\" and observed that he was \"chilled-out\". She also named him \"the most sensible member of the Morgan clan\".\n\n"}
{"id": "1104014", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1104014", "title": "Ministry of Education (New Zealand)", "text": "Ministry of Education (New Zealand)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (Māori: \"Te Tāhuhu o te Mātauranga\") is the public service department of New Zealand charged with overseeing the New Zealand education system.\n\nThe Ministry was formed in 1989 when the former, all-encompassing Department of Education was broken up into six separate agencies.\n\nThe Ministry was established as a result of the Picot task force set up by the Labour government in July 1987 to review the New Zealand education system. The members were Brian Picot, a businessman, Peter Ramsay, an associate professor of education at the University of Waikato, Margaret Rosemergy, a senior lecturer at the Wellington College of Education, Whetumarama Wereta, a social researcher at the Department of Maori Affairs and Colin Wise, another businessman.\nThe task force was assisted by staff from the Treasury and the State Services Commission (SSC), who may have applied pressure on the task force to move towards eventually privatizing education, as had happened with other government services. The mandate was to review management structures and cost-effectiveness, but did not include curriculum, teaching or effectiveness. In nine months the commission received input from over 700 people or organizations.\n\nThe Picot task force released its report \"Administering for Excellence: Effective Administration in Education\" in May 1988.\nThe report was critical of the Department of Education, which it labelled as inefficient and unresponsive.\nThe task force conceived of the school charter as a contract between school boards, the local community and central authority and the government accepted many of the recommendations subsequently published in their response - \"Tomorrow's Schools\". This recommended a system where each school would be largely independent, governed by a board consisting mainly of parents, although subject to review and inspection by specialized government agencies. Another recommendation was that boards of trustees were made responsible to the Minister of Education, who gained the power to dismiss boards.\n\nThe Picot report became the basis for a drawn out process of educational reform in New Zealand starting in 1989. When National was elected in October 1990, it carried out a further series of educational reviews culminating in the publication \"Education Policy: Investing in People, Our Greatest Asset\". This resulted in further modifications to the structure of education reform, and according to one academic, created \"a system which is a far cry from the Picot intentions... There has been an ongoing series of changes and reassessments that has caused chaos, confusion and massive insecurity throughout the education sector\".\n\nIn March 2013, Patrick Walsh, the outgoing president of the Secondary Principals' Association said that despite having about 3000 employees, the Ministry had underperformed for more than a decade. He said \"in an era of self-managing schools we have a Ministry that is so large and yet not able to perform in an effective and efficient manner\". Walsh said the Ministry's poor performance has been confirmed by a number of reviews conducted by the State Services Commission.\n\nThe Ministry's role is to raise the overall level of educational achievement and reduce disparity. It is not an education provider. That role is met by individual elected Boards of Trustees for every state school in the country. The ministry has numerous functions - advising government, providing information to the sector, providing learning resources, administering sector regulation and funding, and providing specialist services. The ministry works with other education agencies including the Education Review Office, the New Zealand Qualifications Authority and Learning Media Limited.\n\nAlthough the Ministry's role is to raise the level of educational achievement, it is also the mechanism through which the Government of the day implements its education policy. When government changes aspects of its policy on education, the Ministry is responsible for implementing those changes. Sometimes the Ministry ends up in the difficult position of trying to implement political induced changes in education policy to which teachers, parents and boards of trustees may be totally opposed. Changes introduced by the National Government in 2011–2012 are an example.\n\nIn order for the Ministry to perform its role effectively, it is dependent on taxpayer funding provided by Government. When government increases funding or requires financial cutbacks, this also impacts on the ability of the Ministry to fulfil its role. In 2013, the Government provided about $12.2 billion to fund education in New Zealand.\n\nThe Ministry serves 1 portfolio, 1 minister and 3 associate ministers.\n\n"}
{"id": "8490267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8490267", "title": "Monographic series", "text": "Monographic series\n\nMonographic series (alternatively, monographs in series) are scholarly and scientific books released in successive volumes, each of which is structured like a separate book or scholarly monograph.\nIn general books that are released serially (in successive parts) once a year, or less often, are called series. Publications that are released more often than once a year are known as periodicals. If the volumes can each stand on their own as a separate book, they are called monographs in series, if not they are called book sets.\n\nThe connection among books belonging to such a series can be by discipline, focus, approach, type of work, or geographic location. Examples of such series include \"Antwerp Working Papers in Linguistics\"; \"Early English Manuscripts in Facsimile\" (Rosenkilde & Bagger, Copenhagen); Garland reference library; \"Canterbury Tales Project\" (see \"The Canterbury Tales\"); Early English Text Society.\n\nThe \"Library of Anglo-Catholic Theology\" (a series of 19th-century editions of theological works by Church of England writers, devoted to significant Anglo-Catholic figures, published by John Henry Parker) is an example of a common usage in naming monographic series; another example is the John Harvard Library which consists of notable works relating to the United States. The Loeb Classical Library is a series of editions of Greek and Latin texts in which the original texts are accompanied by translations into English; the series was begun by James Loeb and is published by Harvard University Press, Cambridge, Massachusetts Series intended for general readers may also have \"library\" in their titles, e.g. Everyman's Library.\n\nLibraries and indexing services handle them in various ways. The Library of Congress catalogs each part of them as an individual book with an individual call number and ISBN and a series note (technically a series added entry for the overall series, which has its ISSN, and usually a call number. As the Library of Congress receives two copies of most scholarly books as copyright deposits, it normally keeps one by individual call number and one by series call number. Most other libraries do not have that luxury and have to choose. The Anglo-American Cataloging Rules 2nd edition allows either of these options to be used.\n\nMedical libraries almost always keep them together as a series. The biomedical indexing service PubMed from the National Library of Medicine treat the individual volumes in such a series as if they were volumes in a journal.\n\n\nIn many cases each volume in such a series itself contains individual chapters or articles written by different authors, usually on the same general theme. The Library of Congress does not list each such article separately, but PubMed does.\n\nA frequent occasion for such a themed volume is a celebration in honor of a person's scholarly work. If done at retirement or on an anniversary (e.g. 60th birthday), it is usually called a Festschrift or celebration volume. If after death, it is usually called a memorial.\n\nThe publisher Variorum Reprints began publishing its Collected Studies series in 1970. Each of these volumes contains \"a selection of articles by a leading authority on a particular subject ... reprinted from a vast range of learned journals, Festschrifts, conference proceedings ...\". These volumes are published by Ashgate Publications.\n\n"}
{"id": "52650651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52650651", "title": "MormonLeaks", "text": "MormonLeaks\n\nMormonLeaks (formerly Mormon WikiLeaks) is a whistleblowing organization inspired by WikiLeaks, which focuses on exposing documents from the leadership of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church). It began in October 2016 as a leaked series of videos on the YouTube channel Mormon Leaks. In total, 15 videos were initially leaked via the Mormon Leaks channel from meetings of high-ranking LDS leaders including the Quorum of the Twelve. They discussed topics including the \"homosexual agenda\", the subprime mortgage crisis, and a debate over the sexual orientation of Chelsea Manning. Politicians featured in the videos included former Utah governor Mike Leavitt and former U.S. Senator from Oregon Gordon H. Smith.\n\nRyan McKnight, founder of MormonLeaks, was interviewed by \"The New York Times\" about his YouTube channel Mormon Leaks, and this led to contacts from Reddit who asked him for a secure way to send files. He set up a website to allow whistleblowers to protect their anonymity. The submission process ensures confidentiality, including erasure of IP addresses, asking leakers to use the privacy browser Tor, sending documents via SecureDrop, and additional encryption methods. Initial funding was raised through GoFundMe, and an official Twitter account was set up. The site's intent is to increase transparency of LDS Church leadership, and would not leak names of lower-level employees, instead focusing on the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Presidency.\n\nUniversity of Tampa professor Ryan Cragun said scholars were interested in finding out what documents would be revealed, noting there was a dearth of information available about the finances of the LDS Church. He said active Mormons were unlikely to view the leaked materials, but the material would have a more significant impact on those who were questioning or had already resigned their membership status. Mormon scholar and columnist Jana Riess gave a mixed assessment, criticizing their tactics regarding privacy while saying it could help to increase LDS Church leadership transparency. Utah attorney and Mormon blogger Steve Evans said the practice of leaking was criminal publication of stolen property, and said LDS Church employees who leaked material were likely violating a non-disclosure agreement.\n\nRyan McKnight, the site's founder, had previously gained attention in October 2016 when he was interviewed by \"The New York Times\" about his YouTube channel \"Mormon Leaks\", which released videos of top LDS leadership executive discussions. McKnight is a former Mormon, having resigned from the LDS Church in 2014, residing in Las Vegas, Nevada. The anonymous individual who sent him the videos via email, according to McKnight, had been holding onto them for a period of years but with the intention to do something with them eventually. Within a time span of under a month the YouTube channel had garnered 2,200 followers.\n\nThe LDS Church did not publicly question the veracity of the videos, which included top leadership debating the \"homosexual agenda\". Additional topics discussed by the high-level LDS Church leadership in the videos included marijuana, Islam, the subprime mortgage crisis, and a debate over the sexual orientation of Chelsea Manning. LDS Church spokesman Eric Hawkins provided an official response, which stated: \"In these committee meetings, presentations are routinely received from various religious, political and subject matter experts on various topics. The purpose is to understand issues that may face the Church, and is in pursuit of the obligation Church leaders feel to be informed on and have open discussion about current issues. This is an informational forum, not a decision-making body.\" Hawkins pointed out the videos were from a timeframe of 2007 through 2012.\n\nIn total the 15 videos were published to YouTube on the last day of the October 2016 LDS General Conference. Most of the videos were from closed session events only attended by high-level LDS Church leadership. The majority of them depicted lectures given to the Quorum of the Twelve, the second-highest ranking leadership group within the LDS Church. Mike Leavitt, former governor of Utah, appeared in a video filmed in 2012 and gave a presentation on State Religious Freedom Restoration Acts. Gordon H. Smith, former U.S. senator from Oregon, was shown in another video talking to the LDS Church leadership. Smith lectured the LDS Church leaders about the \"inestimable power\" yielded from being able to contact U.S. Senators whenever necessary for assistance. The lectures given to LDS Church leadership in this fashion were businesslike, with statistics and Microsoft PowerPoint presentations.\n\nMcKnight suddenly found himself the point-person on the Internet for those wishing to maintain anonymity and yet simultaneously publicize secret documents from the LDS Church. After the videos engendered debate and attention from Mormons and the wider Internet community, McKnight was asked to add more videos from people who messaged him on Reddit. After another anonymous user on Reddit asked him, he publicized documents from the LDS Church detailing a rules modification about homosexual partners. Reddit users asked him for a more secure means of submitting documents about the LDS Church.\n\nMcKnight decided to found MormonLeaks so whistleblowers could protect their anonymity. Since his increased attention from the October videos and the November policy change leaks, McKnight has been contacted by 25 sources inside and outside of the LDS Church with potential material to release. McKnight and his team spent six months planning creation of the organization. He estimated approximately a potential for between hundreds to thousands of additional invididuals who may wish to leak information through the site. The organization has no affiliation with Fred Karger or his website MormonTips.com, which also publicizes confidential documents from the LDS Church. MormonLeaks takes steps to protect confidentiality of their sources, including erasing all IP addresses from submissions and removing watermarks from submitted materials. The site asks users who wish to submit secret documents to use the Tor privacy browser to protect themselves. Users then send the documents to MormonLeaks via SecureDrop. Encryption methods are further incorporated to mask the identity of the whistleblowers. The motivation behind the organization is to increase transparency of LDS Church leadership.\n\nMormonLeaks launched on December 19, 2016. The organization was started with a website and accompanying Twitter page. The MormonLeaks team works to verify documents before posting them live. This fact-checking team includes five volunteers and an attorney. MormonLeaks does not take funding through advertising. Funds to start MormonLeaks itself were initially raised through donations from GoFundMe. The hope of its founder was that MormonLeaks would demonstrate the LDS Church's profitable nature as a business as opposed to its assertion of religious status. The founder said it was highly unlikely the LDS Church would voluntarily publicize more of its innermost proceedings, saying it \"will never be voluntarily transparent, they have nothing to gain from it\". The site's intention was to avoid publishing specific lists of names of membership, and instead focus on economic information and internal organization policies and procedures. The site intended to limit disclosure of actual people's names to high-ranking officials including the Quorum of the Twelve and the First Presidency. \n\nThe organization's first leaks appeared on December 19, 2016, in the form of LDS Church documents from 2010. It published four files onto its account on Facebook as of December 20, 2016. The first documents publicized by MormonLeaks included memos about legal procedures, a letter to the temple department's executive director regarding unsanctioned materials on the Internet, and an organizational chart for the intellectual property division of the LDS Church. MormonLeaks asserts to have been offered documents from two separate individuals who were employees of the LDS Church concerning tithing information of famous Mormons, including American football quarterback Steve Young.\n\nAfter MormonLeaks had posted a handful a number of LDS Church documents for four months, the Church sent a cease-and-desist letter alleging copyright infringement with regard to a leaked Church leadership PowerPoint presentation published by MormonLeaks in February 2017. The PowerPoint discussed societal pressures that the Church felt had led some LDS members to apostasy, which included pornography, the issues agitated for by Ordain Women, and questions regarding Mormon history such as those promoted in books by lawyer / Fundamentalist Mormon Denver Snuffer or in online postings by psychologist social critic John Dehlin. MormonLeaks pulled the offending document for a short while, until its attorney, Marc Randazza, sent the LDS Church a letter which said, \"At this point, my client is willing to let bygones be bygones. If your client is willing to step back from the brink, and to cease efforts to censor this material, my client is willing to refrain from bringing a claim [of abusing copyright law].\"\n\nWikiLeaks was aware of the foundation under the site's original name of MormonWikiLeaks, and sent them a message on Twitter asking them to change their name. The founder stated he would retain the name as MormonWikiLeaks, and said a trademark application was pending.\n\nUniversity of Tampa professor Ryan Cragun said academics were excited to discover more information about the economics behind the LDS Church, as members tithe 10 percent of their earnings and there was not much in the way of transparent documents available to research their holdings and finances. Cragun said it was unlikely active members of the LDS Church would end up viewing the leaked documents because they were \"highly insulated\". However, he notes documents would have a greater impact on someone who is considering leaving the LDS Church: \"For someone in the middle of a faith transition, such information is more fuel for the fire.\"\n\nEditor-in-chief of \"The Nonprofit Quarterly\", Ruth McCambridge, wrote that the appearance of MormonLeaks was reflective of an increasing trend by individuals to use technology to force nonprofit organizations to be transparent and accountable to the public. MormonLeaks has an attorney on staff, which McCambridge notes may be beneficial given the prior litigation history where the LDS Church made a copyright infringement assertion against WikiLeaks for publishing the church's \"Handbook of Instructions\".\n\nMormon scholar and columnist Jana Riess was critical of the organization's tactics, stating: \"I am very concerned about privacy in our culture more generally. People in the workplace have the right to expect that intraoffice communication and their emails will stay private.\" She called MormonLeaks \"disturbing\" and said: \"It is not good news for any of us.\" On a positive note, Riess said it could motivate the upper LDS Church leadership to increase its transparency.\n\nUtah attorney and Mormon blogger Steve Evans called MormonLeaks \"a rebranding exercise of McKnight's existing practice of posting various confidential items.\" Evans said MormonLeaks had \"an added layer of cybersecurity, which won't necessarily protect the leakers, depending on their methods of obtaining the various stolen documents, videos, etc.\" Evans was critical of McKnight's encouragement to those who choose to leak information to MormonLeaks: \"the leakers are likely either church employees or consultants working for the church. In either of those situations, it's very likely that the leakers are violating their nondisclosure and confidentiality agreements with the church. McKnight is now publicly encouraging people to violate these agreements.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "27573319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27573319", "title": "My School", "text": "My School\n\nMy School is a website administered by the Australian Curriculum, Assessment and Reporting Authority (ACARA) which provides access to information about Australian schools. Nearly 10,000 schools across Australia can be searched.\n\nThe site reports data from the annual National Assessment Program – Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN) tests which compulsorily assess reading, writing, spelling, grammar, punctuation, and numeracy at years 3, 5, 7 and 9 for all Australian school students. It also displays information such as school missions, staffing, financial information, its resources and its students' characteristics.\n\nThe website does not allow users to directly compare schools of their choosing.\n\nThe website went live at 1:00 am on 28 January 2010, but later in the morning the website became unavailable due to extremely high demand. It was launched by the then Minister for Education, Julia Gillard.\n\nAn update to the site was expected in December 2010, however its roll-out was delayed until March 2011. The primary aim of the changes was to increase funding transparency.\n\nTeachers' unions and some parent bodies have expressed concerns that the data is being used to formulate league tables of schools. Principals claim that students have been asked to leave some schools because their performance on NAPLAN tests was expected to damage those schools' rankings. Independent think tank the Grattan Institute calls for schools to be judged on the individual improvement students make every year rather than the comparison based on raw test scores used on My School. The Australian Education Union has resolved to boycott future NAPLAN testing if the My School website is used in this way.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4043610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4043610", "title": "Nicolás Leoz", "text": "Nicolás Leoz\n\nNicolás Leoz Almirón (born September 10, 1928) was President of CONMEBOL (\"South American Football Confederation\") from 1986 to 2013. Leoz assumed the presidency in 1986 (succeeding Teófilo Salinas Fuller) and in February 2006, he was reelected as President for a sixth term. He is Paraguayan and he received Colombian citizenship in 2008. On April 23, 2013, Leoz resigned from both the FIFA Executive Committee and the CONMEBOL presidency, citing health issues.\n\nBefore his position as President of CONMEBOL, Leoz was President of the Justice Department of the Paraguayan Basketball Confederation (1957–1959), President of Paraguayan Soccer Club Libertad (1969–1970 and 1974–1977), President of the Asociación Paraguaya de Fútbol (1971–1973 and 1979–1985) and Vice President of CONMEBOL (1972–1974 and 1980–1986).\n\nIn November 2010 he was alleged by the BBC to have taken bribes in the 1990s regarding the awarding of World Cup television rights.\n\nIn May 2015, Leoz was banned by FIFA Ethics Committee.\n\nLeoz was born in Pirizal, Chaco Paraguayo, Paraguay. His childhood was spent in Pirizal, 78 km. in the industrial complex of Carlos Casado, near the Paraguay River, Puerto Casado today is known as Puerto La Victoria.\n\nFrom 1940–1950, Leoz was a sports journalist in radio media and the press, with teachers, peers and colleagues like Halley Gerardo Mora Pedro García, Nestor Romero Valdovinos, Milciades Aguayo, Sindulfo Martínez.\nIn 1957, he studied Law at the School of Law and Social Sciences of the UNA (National University of Asunción) and as a student took office in Judiciary as a scribe in interrogations; he graduated December 24, 1957 at 29 years age.\n\nFrom 1950 to 1962, he was a history teacher at the Colegio Nacional de la Capital, Nacional de Niñas and Comercio.\nHe was also director of aluminum enterprise and agricultural livestock.\n\nFrom 1957 to 1977, he was President of the Tribunal de Justicia de la Confederación Paraguaya de Básquetbol.\n\n\nIn November 2010, Andrew Jennings, the presenter of FIFA's Dirty Secrets, an edition of BBC's flagship current affairs programme \"Panorama\" alleged that Leoz had taken bribes in the 1990s regarding the awarding of contracts for the sale of television rights to the football World Cup. \"Panorama\" claimed to have obtained a confidential document from a company called ISL which showed that Leoz was paid $730,000 by the company. ISL won the contract to distribute the television rights. Leoz has not responded to the allegations.\n\nIn May 2011, Lord Triesman named Leoz while giving evidence at a Parliamentary inquiry into football governance in London. Nicolas Leoz has been accused of requesting an honorary knighthood in reward for supporting a World Cup bid for England. It was later revealed in email exchanges involving his aide that Leoz would consider visiting England if the FA Cup, the oldest association football competition in the world, were to be named after him.\n\nOn April 23, 2013, Leoz announced his resignation of CONMEBOL presidency to take place on April 30, 2013.\n\nOn June 3, 2015, Leoz was named on an INTERPOL Red Notice.\n\nLeoz is the son of Gregory Leoz Latorre (born in Navarre, Spain) and Patron Almirón Bogarín (born in Luque, Paraguay), daughter of then-judge Peace Luque. His brothers are Guillermo, Pomposa, Sara, Eusebio, Cesar, Modesto and Maria Teresa. He also has two brothers, Isidore and Cesareo from his father when he married Eudosia Carmen Zorrilla.\n\nHis paternal grandparents were Cesareo Leoz Guinda and Miguel Latorre. His paternal great-grandparents were Leoz Ramon Manuel and Manuela Guinda Baztam.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8499399", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8499399", "title": "Nonsul", "text": "Nonsul\n\nNonsul (論述,writing test),one of the test formats of college entrance exams in South Korea, basically means 'writing logically'- to read the given articles and write the answer to the questions. Additionally, it also includes a similar oral test format called 'Gusul(口述,oral test)' which needs logical and immediate interaction.\n\nNonsul has recently been positioned as one of the three main factors of entrance exams in Korea, which includes 'Haksaengbu(學生簿,GPA)' and 'Sunung(修能,The Korean SAT)' but Nonsul has only been adopted in 20 high-class universities, mostly because of the huge effort and time needed to fairly evaluate the answer sheets.\n\nUsually, there are no official 'Nonsul' classes in regular schools so many students depend on private academies.\n"}
{"id": "29762250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29762250", "title": "OASIS (center)", "text": "OASIS (center)\n\nOasis is a national, nonprofit educational organization that promotes healthy aging and reduces social isolation among older adults through lifelong learning, active lifestyles and volunteer engagement. Offering stimulating programs in health and wellness, arts, humanities, technology and volunteer service, Oasis brings people together to learn, lead and contribute to their communities. The Oasis Institute in St. Louis is the national headquarters. The organization offers programs in 40 cities, including nine Oasis education centers.\n\nCreated in 1982 by Marylen Mann and a group of volunteers and educators, the organization was originally funded for two years by the U.S. Administration on Aging. The original four centers were in St. Louis, Baltimore, Los Angeles, and Cleveland. The May Department Stores Company provided space for Oasis classes in its stores. Paul Weiss is the current president of the organization.\n\nOasis is sponsored with generous support from individuals, corporate and private foundations. \n\n"}
{"id": "28957614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28957614", "title": "Petr Kvíčala", "text": "Petr Kvíčala\n\nPetr Kvíčala (born 1960 in Svitavy) is one of the most significant personalities in Czech abstract non-picture painting. At the turn of the 1980s and 1990s he became a pioneer in discovering and promoting ornament as a unique individual phenomenon. He also significantly contributed to the acceptance of aesthetic qualities of visual art. Since 1995 he has undertaken commissions for architecture-related projects in which he has collaborated with a number of leading architects both from the Czech Republic and abroad. He has been a lecturer at the Faculty of Fine Arts of the Brno University of Technology, where he is in charge of a painting studio, since 1994. His works are represented in public and private collections.\n\nPetr Kvíčala was born in Svitavy in 1960. A serious interest in fine arts he developed during his studies at the Secondary Technical School of Chemistry, led to the attempt to transfer to a school with an artistic focus, that he was denied. A major impuls of Kvíčala’s artistic development came in the course of his compulsory military service in Janovice nad Úhlavou, where he met graduates of the Prague Academy of Fine Arts and began to draw portraits of other soldiers.\n\nAfter finishing his military service, Kvíčala started Secondary School of Arts and Crafts in Brno, where he received a number of recommendations for his further study at the Academy. However, he was not permitted to enrol for ideological reasons. At the same time in 1982 he started working as a stoker (what he did until 1990) and began to engage in the underground movement.\n\nA milestone in his artistic career was his participation in an exhibition in The Youth Gallery in 1985. There started author’s closer co-operation with Petr Veselý and Vladimir Kokolia, which subsequently led to creation of an art group called Tovaryšstvo malířske (Society of Painting). Since the second half of the 1980s Kvíčala’s work was supported by theoreticians Petr Nedoma and Jiří Valoch and he started to be repeatedly invited to participate in exhibitions of professional artists.\n\nIn 1986 Kvíčala entered the underground music scene with his band called Květen (May), working on the basis of minimalism and musical and political irony, what are themes which correlate with author’s painterly work of that time. In 1989 he became a member of the art group Měkkohlaví, which was formed in response to the emergence of various artistic groups, lacking a common program, whose main objective was to promote commercially. In 1989 Kvíčala founded, along with Marian Palla and Milan Magni, a musically-performative group called Florián – Group of Haze and Kine.\n\nAfter 1989 Petr Kvíčala started to be represented in state and public collections and his work was regularly reflected in professional journals. Since 1994 he has been working on the Faculty of Fine Arts in Brno, initially in the studios of conceptual tendencies and intermedia, and later as a head of one of the painting studios (his students were e.g. Jindřich Chalupecký prize laureate Barbora Klímová, Pavel Ryška, Matěj Smetana, Anežka Hošková, Petr Dub, Jana Babincová or Václav Kočí). In 2001 he received a Degree of an Assistant Professor at the Academy of Fine Arts in Prague.\n\nIn 1995 Kvíčala made his first painterly intervention into architecture (in the apartement of architect Ivan Koleček in Lausanne) and so started a long series of art projects in architecture, which has been one of the main themes of his work until now.\n\nPetr Kvíčala has been dealing with ornament since mid 1980‘s. Both through his work and as a creative artist he confirmed the significance and importance of painting in the era when new media were violently trying to replace other forms of visual art. He works with the simplest ornament, consisting of wavy lines, broken arches or loops. His source of inspiration- landscape – was transformed into an extremely reduced visual vernacular, the basic elements of which are ornamental lines.\n\nHis beginnings were punctuated by attempts to express nature’s principles using the medium of visual art but it the second half of the 1980s the artistic means employed became extremely unorthodox. His creative aspirations from that period were typified by the limitless merging of various disciplines: he created texts inspired by what he had experienced in the landscape and drew simple sketches of fields. At the same time, he was a member of several ensembles dabbing in minimalist music and musique concrète whose productions crossed the boundary between theatrical and performance and animated sculptural installation.\n\nAt the turn of 1980’s and 1990’s, Petr Kvíčala’s work seemed to display an affinity with the broad stream of post-modernist Czech painting as hinted at by the clear colours of the paintings, which enclosed colour surfaces within boundaries and used archetypal-geometric elements. Today, such a general classification is less justifiable. Obviously, rather than making post-modernist quotations and providing a symbolic content to the paintings, so characteristic for the painters from the circle of the Tvrdohlaví group, Kvíčala was more interested in probing the possibilities of the painting medium itself. The orderly inner arrangements of Kvíčala’s work is determined by employing lines approached as ornaments. Of these, the undulating line – a rhythmic painterly gesture in time – if featured most often. The lines are combined and composed according to clear pre-determined rules of algorithms which nevertheless may produce unexpected results. Attention was drawn to the similarities between his works and ornamental paintings in folk architecture (the Waves 1991) or to the affinity to the abstract cave paintings.\n\nKvíčala indicates his inspiration from „low“ culture by using elements from artistic crafts or industrial manufacturing. In the Wallpapers (1987–1988) and Festive Tablecloths for Everyday (1992–1994) cycles he balanced on the hard-to-define line between ornaments on utility objects and artistic expression. He also emphasized manual, and therefore imperfect, reproduction of the ornamental rhythm. However, at the initial level, Kvíčala is not concerned with a post-modern game of aligning various languages, but rather he wishes to rehabilitate ornament as such. He values its visual effectiveness, rational order and its possibility of continuous variation. Kvíčala showed great invention and desire to experiment within his intentionally abridged vocabulary. Among his works we can find procedural paintings, where the surface of the painting can be looked upon as a relic of the time spent on the execution (60 Days of Red, Blue and Yellow, 1996, Monochromes).\n\nIn Memory cycle (2001–2003) Kvíčala works with a negative definition of lines, delineating them with a surrounding red surface, a memory of lines and fragments of ornaments, their imprint in the mind. Working with broad lines led author to an opposite extreme: using white paint he reduced ornamental lines to the very extreme of technical possibilities of traditional painting (Fine Stripes – Coded Ornaments 2008).\n\nThe recent works by Petr Kvíčala implement the artist’s accustomed repertoire of line ornaments, combining waves, broken lines and loops. The special optical effect is achieved by a multiple repetition of thin parallel lines of the two basic ornaments and an intentionally limited colour palette, relying on a simple rhythm of two to three colours. Special prominence is given to minuscule deviations and “flaws” in the applied order. These serve as another, improvised, level of rhythmicizing the paintings although they can also be perceived as a generalization of the natural and human responses to environmental changes (cycles Dogon 2007, Pacific 2008, Flow 2009).\n\nSince 1993 Petr Kvíčala has created a number of ephemeral installations – mostly on the floors of galleries and in public space. Major installations are e.g. send lines in Plasy convent (1993), the red pigment installation in Behémot gallery in Praque (1994) or contemporary Zig Zag streed art in Brno (2009).\n\nSince the second half of 1990’s painterly interventions into architecture are one of the main topics of Kvíčala’s work. He uses principles and themes from his paintings, which he strives to transfer to the specific architectural space. Kvíčala is also a coordinator of international educational and research project 2B2A, dealing with cooperation between art and architecture, its theoretical reflection and practical implementation.\n\nThe very first painterly intervention into architecture Kvíčala made, was in the apartment of architect Ivan Koleček in Lausanne. „Southern part of the apartment, with windows facing the lake, contains the living space and the adjoining studies, while the northern part faces the town. I noticed that the southern exterior „pervades“ the house to such an extend that any change in weather and the continual play of light are reflected, by the great mirror of the lake surface, in the living space and becomes ts integral component. As a result, I decided to underline the opposing role of the dividing role relative to the view.“\n\nMajor international project Kvíčala worked on in 2004, was new Deutsche Bundesbank building in Chemnitz (architect Josep Luís Mateo), where he realized the ceiling painting „Watermelon Cut – Ceiling Dance“. The painting on the entrance hall ceiling (exceeding 150 m² in area) is both a counterpoint and to the overall logic of the building and its complement. The paint application technique left the brush strokes visible as a sign of a human, yet artificial intervention in stark contrast to the abstraction of the organic construction materials, free of any trace of craftsmanship. Retaining the brushwork proved to be of importance in integrating the work within the architectural space, both as a nod to the process of making the painting and an element evoking the organic nature of the painting – a cut through the living tissue of a solid architectural form.\n\nIn numerous sketches prepared for the painting I first examined the rhythm of the division relative to the format as well as the harmonization of colours with regards to the materials within the space. I continued by producing two cardboard paintings at the actual scale in order to be able to precisely determine the density of the network of lines, the magnitude of the waves and their thickness. While working on the cardboards I concluded that waves of this magnitude cannot be drawn using a standard method, as their dimensions surpass the physical capability of human being. I resorted to attaching the charcoal that I used for drawing on a long pole and, by standing on tip-toe and gyrating the whole body including carefully thought-out legwork, I negotiated smooth curves. I performed something short of a dance during which the body movement is transmitted into the lines drawn.\n\nIn 2005 Petr Kvíčala cooperated, with architects A. Novák and P. Valenta, on the reconstruction of the historical building of Reduta theatre in Brno. He is author of the mural „40 Days of Red“ in Reduta ballroom hall, atrium floor and ceiling arches of the theatre café. The mural consists of layers of red undulating lines laid next to one another. on a red background. In each of the superimposed layer the undulating lines have a different direction. The monochrome effect of the red paint, together with the colour of the parquet flooring arranged into historical patterns conjures up a solemn ambience nurtured by the rare occurrence of the colour red in the nature patterns, and even more so by its endorsement of the culutral and historical tradition. „ The regular layers of repeatedly painted undulating lines impregnates the walls with aspects of time, exertion and sumptuousness. No celebration can take place without show and splendor as, in essence, a „purposeless“ celebration is the most natural human response to the mystery of life.“\n\nThe motive of Memory cycle was used for wall paintings in Rischart building in Munich (2007). The target to achieve was to create environment which is not only positive but also outstanding and which makes it possible for the employees to identify with. Those paintings are repeated in the areas of central communications: in the corridors of the cloakrooms located in the basement, in the high lit part of the staircase leading from the second to the fifth floor, as well as in the central area in front of the offices of the owners and in the meeting room of the fifth floor, around the staircase leading to the café for the employees on the sixth floor.. „ Restricting the lines by surrounding red areas, the memory of the line and fragments of the ornaments is a sort of an imprint on one's mind. I thought of the ancient concept of Crete in which unlike in the Greek one everything is floating, everything is shown in non-existence and does not manifest its achievement and the drama of the fight. It is a world of gardens determined for solitary confinement, for rest and meditation, for the world I sometimes long for and which I can relate to.“\n\nSince 1980’s Kvíčala has also created number of painted objects, since 1990’s he has been applying his motives to utility items, especially to textiles (e.g. his cooperation with Denisa Nová, DNB) or China.\n\n"}
{"id": "5254225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254225", "title": "Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra", "text": "Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra\n\nThe Pontificia Universidad Católica Madre y Maestra (Mother and Teacher Pontifical Catholic University), named after Pope John XXIII's encyclical \"Mater et magistra\", that is, \"Mother and Teacher\", (PUCMM for its Spanish acronym) is the first private, Roman Catholic, coeducational, university in the Dominican Republic (excluding colonial times). The university grants undergraduate, graduate, doctoral, and professional degrees through three campuses. Its main campus is in the city of Santiago de los Caballeros, and it has smaller campus in Santo Domingo and an extension in Puerto Plata. PUCMM has been listed consistently as the second best university in the Dominican Republic, after UNIBE, by QS Latin America University Rankings.\n\nThe university was established on September 9, 1962 and it has become one of the country's top institutions of higher education. It was the first University to offer Industrial, Electrical, Mechanical and Electronics Engineering careers. It also offers graduate level degrees and dual degrees with associated universities in the United States and France. Recently the university was recognized in Quacquarelli Symonds top Latin American universities 2012 by ranking in at 205 out of the top 250 universities in the region. The PUCMM School of Business also is the highest ranking school of business in the Dominican Republic followed by the School of Business of the UASD. This ranking was done by Eduniversal Rankings and their prestigious Palmes business school ranking. The PUCMM received the 2 Palmes ranking which represents a Good business school with regional influence. In 1991, the institution was delegated as the responsible for country domain registration, that is, .do domains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35870071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35870071", "title": "Ratikant Mohapatra", "text": "Ratikant Mohapatra\n\nRatikant Mohapatra is a dancer, percussionist, Guru, and Choreographer and archivist of Odissi. Under the direction and choreography of Ratikant Mohapatra, 555 Odissi dancers, a large number of them belonging to foreign countries, performed in unison at Kalinga Stadium, Bhubaneswar to enter their names in the Guinness Book of World Records. Odissi Dance entered into Indo-Chinese Movie The Desire under the choreography of Guru Ratikant Mohapatra.\nthumb\n\nHe was born to Guru Padma Vibhushan Kelucharan Mohapatra and Mrs. Laxmipriya Mohapatra on 24 December 1965. He improvised on his own natural talents and inclination towards dance and music at an early age. Trained by the Maestro in the art of Odissi and Mardala, Ratikant did not spare any efforts to emerge as a leading male dancer and distinguished choreographer by the time he was in his early twenties. Guru Ratikant Mohapatra is married to Sujata Mohapatra who is a dancer and Odissi exponent. He has a daughter, Preetisha Mohapatra with her.\n\n\n\nSome major performances staged by Ratikant Mohapatra are: France- Festival of India and International Mime Festival; Germany- Festival of India and Autumn Festival; Japan - Festival of India; Russia- Festival of India; United Kingdom- Festival of India, Sanskritik Festival; Canada- Society of Fine Arts & Dance Academy of Ms Meneka Thakkar; Hong Kong- Vrundavan Dance & Music Academy of Pdt.Hari Prasad Chaurasia; Dubai- Sponsored Programmes; USA- 70th International Birth Anniversary Celebration of Guru Kelucharan Mohapatra in 1996, India Festival, Sponsored programs; Australia- ICCR Cultural Delegate & Sponsored programmes.\n\n"}
{"id": "4375355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4375355", "title": "Raymond St. Jacques", "text": "Raymond St. Jacques\n\nRaymond St. Jacques (March 1, 1930 – August 27, 1990) was an American actor, director and producer. He was the first African American actor to appear in a regular role on a western series, playing Simon Blake on \"Rawhide\".\n\nSt. Jacques was born James Arthur Johnson in Hartford, Connecticut. He had a sister, Barbara Ann. Shortly after his birth, his parents divorced; he moved with his mother and sister to New Haven, Connecticut. Johnson's mother Vivienne later worked as a medical technician at Yale University. After graduating from Hillhouse High School, Johnson attended Yale, where he studied drama and psychology. \n\nUpon graduation, he worked as an assistant director, actor and fencing instructor for the American Shakespearean Festival in New Haven. He staged all of the fencing scenes and duels while at the company and would continue to practice fencing for the rest of his life.\n\nAfter moving to New York City, Johnson continued to pursue acting and studied at the Actors Studio. To support himself, he worked as a model, dishwasher and a busboy. His first professional acting role was in the off-Broadway play \"High Name Today\".\n\nAfter appearing in bit parts on television in the early 1960s, St. Jacques made his film debut in a small part in the 1964 film \"Black Like Me\". He followed with a role in \"The Pawnbroker\" later that year. In 1968, he appeared in a supporting role in \"The Green Berets\". \n\nHis best-known film roles were that of Coffin Ed in the blaxploitation classics \"Cotton Comes to Harlem\" (1970) (adapted from crime novels by Chester Himes) and \"Come Back, Charleston Blue\" (1972). In the early 1970s, St. Jacques began teaching fencing and acting at the Mafundi Institute in Watts, Los Angeles. In 1973, he produced, directed, and starred in the crime film \"Book of Numbers\". \n\nDuring the 1960s, St. Jacques also guest starred on numerous television shows including \"East Side/West Side\", \"Daktari\", \"The Virginian\", and \"The Man from U.N.C.L.E.\". In 1965, he was cast as \"Simon Blake\" in the Western series \"Rawhide\", the first African-American actor to ever be cast as a regular on a prime time Western series. Throughout the 1960s and 1970s, St. Jacques continued with roles on stage, film and television. He became known as \"The Man of a Thousand Faces\" due to the varied parts he played throughout his career.\n\nIn 1976, St. Jacques starred as Othello in the John Anson Ford Amphitheatre production of the play of the same name. He remained active in stage work throughout his career, touring in productions of \"Julius Caesar\", \"Romeo and Juliet\", \"A Raisin in the Sun\", and the stage adaptation of \"The Man with the Golden Arm\". From 1988 to 1989, St. Jacques had a two-year stint as Judge Clayton C. Thomas on the syndicated TV show \"Superior Court\". In 1989, he played abolitionist Frederick Douglass in Edward Zwick's \"Glory\". His final film role was in the 1991 sci fi film \"Timebomb\" released after his death.\n\nSt. Jacques was a lifelong bachelor. In August 1969, St. Jacques granted an interview to columnist Earl Wilson and told Wilson of his plans to adopt two African American boys who were 6 and 7 years old. The adoption apparently never happened but, by the early 1970s, St. Jacques claimed to have two older sons, Raymond St. Jacques, Jr. and . In a 1973 interview, St. Jacques claimed that Raymond, Jr. was living in Boston. In May 1972, Sterling, then reported to be 22 years old, made news after four men attempted to rob St. Jacques' Bel Air home. Sterling was the only person home at the time (St. Jacques was in Dallas at the time) and fled after calling police. The four men were apprehended after their getaway car stalled in St. Jacques' driveway. Sterling went on to appear in St. Jacques' 1973 film \"Book of Numbers\". In the mid to late 1970s, Sterling St. Jacques became known as a high fashion model (he was briefly engaged to fellow model Pat Cleveland), dancer and a frequent New York City nightclub and society fixture.\n\nThe adoption of Raymond, Jr. and Sterling was apparently never official. In his will, St. Jacques claimed that he had no children and named only Sterling, whom he identified as his nephew, in his will. St. Jacques bequeathed Sterling $1 from his $750,000 estate.\n\nSt. Jacques frequently spoke of the prejudices he and other African American actors faced in being cast in non-stereotypical, thoughtful roles. He later worked to help African Americans find work behind the camera. In 1977 he publicly criticised the lack of minority actors in \"Star Wars\" (which he acknowledged having seen five times) and other science fiction films. St. Jacques was also an activist for African American civil rights. In 1985, he and other protestors were arrested during an anti-apartheid demonstration outside of the South African embassy in Washington, D.C.\n\nOn August 27, 1990, St. Jacques died from AIDS-related lymphoma at Cedars-Sinai Medical Center in Los Angeles, California. His funeral was held on August 31 at The Church of the Recessional at Forest Lawn Memorial Park in Glendale, California, after which he was interred at Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Hollywood Hills.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49605386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49605386", "title": "Resonance (journal)", "text": "Resonance (journal)\n\nResonance – Journal of Science Education is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering science education. It is currently being published by Springer Science+Business Media on behalf of the Indian Academy of Sciences and the editor-in-chief is Rajaram Nityananda of Azim Premji University. The journal was established in 1996.\n\nThe journal is abstracted and indexed in:\n"}
{"id": "10885525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10885525", "title": "Rick Freuler", "text": "Rick Freuler\n\nDr. Richard \"Rick\" J. Freuler is a professor and coordinator of the Fundamentals of Engineering for Honors (FEH) program at the Ohio State University. He is also Associate Director of the Aeronautical-Astronautical Research Lab in the Aerospace Engineering Department. As the coordinator of FEH, he also teaches some of the classes.\n\nHe won the Charles E. MacQuigg Awards for Outstanding Teaching in 2000, 2004, 2008 and more recently in 2012.\n"}
{"id": "29447505", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29447505", "title": "RollerCoaster Tycoon World", "text": "RollerCoaster Tycoon World\n\nRollerCoaster Tycoon World is a theme park construction and management simulation video game developed by Nvizzio Creations and published by Atari for Microsoft Windows. It is the fourth major installment in the \"RollerCoaster Tycoon\" series. The game was released on November 16, 2016.\n\nPlayers are able to build rides, shops and roller coasters, while monitoring elements such as budget, visitor happiness and technology research. Unlike \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 4 Mobile\", the game does not include any micro-transactions. Similar to \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\", the game features 3D graphics instead of the 2D isometric style of the first two installments in the series. When building roller coasters, the game makes use of a spline system instead of the old style of laying individual pieces. Players are also allowed to \"ride\" the roller coasters they have created, and other rides they have placed in their park in the game, in either a first or third person view. A new 'Park Pulse' mechanic was also introduced, allowing players to quickly find out how their park is doing and the customers' thoughts, similar to \"Zoo Tycoon\" titles.\n\nThe game contains several scenery and ride themes at launch, with more in development that will be released via free updates and paid expansion packs. The game also introduces an \"Architect mode\", allowing players to plan and layout the coaster's model before constructing the coasters. Similar to the past installments, there are four different types of coasters available to build: steel, inverted, wooden, and launch-track coasters. In addition, there are ten roller coasters per type. \nCoasters can be built freeform or the player can place pre-mode designs into their park.\nUnlike in the previous games, the roller coaster train may fly off the tracks if the roller coaster is built incorrectly. As a result, a new \"safety-rating\" option and medical staff has been added. User-generated content (including custom scenery) was available from release, as well as Steam Workshop support. While terrain and environments are randomly generated in a map, players can still gain access to a terrain editor.\n\nWhen Atari announced \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 4 Mobile\", they also promised that a title for Windows was also being developed. The game was officially announced during Gamescom 2014 with a teaser trailer, subtitled \"World\". The first screenshots and details of the game were revealed during PAX Prime 2014. Part way through development, Area 52 Games took over as the developer of the game from Pipeworks Software. The reasoning behind this has not yet been published by Atari, who announced the change along with the relaunch of the RollerCoaster Tycoon website. The game was due for release in early 2015, although it was revealed that they would not announce an official launch date until closer to the release of the game. A closed alpha was also in development. A new trailer showing gameplay was uploaded on March 5, 2015, showing an intro featuring real life POV footage of Goliath and Colossus at Six Flags Magic Mountain.\n\nAtari later revealed that a third developer had taken over from Area 52 Games, later confirmed to be Nvizzio Creations. At the NVIDIA booth on PAX Prime 2015, Atari unveiled interactive gameplay for the game showing off their development build that featured coaster building and sandbox mode. On September 29, 2015, it was announced the release date would be December 10, 2015. Two beta weekends preceded the release of the game. The first beta weekend was the last weekend of October and this beta was focused on the new spline-based Coaster Builder. The first beta weekend took place as planned. However, feedback from this beta weekend led to Atari deciding to delay the game's release to early 2016. The developer noted the additional development time would allow them to add requested items and features such as “predefined piece” coaster building, additional coaster test feedback, a robust fencing tool, improved on-demand grid, and various smaller improvements.\" Consequently, the second beta weekend was also delayed from November to December.\n\nAtari had decided that its theme park game, \"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\", would be launched into Early Access on 30 March, instead of going with a full release. The early access release was met with negative reviews, mostly complaining about the poor graphics, coaster builder, lack of detail, and ride animations. In November 2016, Atari announced that the game will be released on November 16, 2016, one day before \"Planet Coaster\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s release.\n\nThe game was available for both standard and deluxe editions. The deluxe edition contained two additional maps, terrain texture additions, a digital art book, a gold park entrance, and the panda mascot from the previous games.\n\nA trailer released by Atari containing gameplay of \"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\" was received poorly by critics and fans. Some critics noted that the game appears graphically worse than 2004's \"RollerCoaster Tycoon 3\" and that it \"looks little better than a basic mobile game.\" Atari later issued a statement that the game was still in \"pre-alpha\" stages, and that the graphics were not yet coded to their full resolution and would also receive a major overhaul when the game's engine is upgraded from Unity 4.6 to Unity 5.0. They also promised that the new visuals would be of higher definition and higher level of realism.\n\nThe release of \"RollerCoaster Tycoon World\" was met with negative reactions by critics. According to review aggregator Metacritic, the game holds a score of 43 out of 100, based on seven reviews.\n\n\"Eurogamer\" suggested to avoid the game, comparing the game to a \"car-crash into an orphanage for bush-babies.\"\n\nTechRaptor rated the game a 1/10, citing the large interface and variety of bugs and glitches within the game.\n\n"}
{"id": "2956358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2956358", "title": "SQ3R", "text": "SQ3R\n\nSQRRR or SQ3R is a reading comprehension method named for its five steps: survey, question, read, recite, and review. The method was introduced by Francis P. Robinson, an American education philosopher in his 1946 book \"Effective Study\".\n\nThe method offers a more efficient and active approach to reading textbook material. It was created for college students, but is extremely useful for young students as well. Classrooms all over the world have begun using this method to better understand what they are reading.\n\nSimilar methods developed subsequently include PQRST and KWL table.\n\n\nBest's process of effective comprehension suggests six stages for better understanding a topic while in a learning process.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3821860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3821860", "title": "Structured Liberal Education (Stanford University)", "text": "Structured Liberal Education (Stanford University)\n\nStructured Liberal Education (SLE ) is a program at Stanford University offering an alternative three-course sequence for freshmen to fulfill their Thinking Matters and Program in Writing and Rhetoric (PWR) requirements. With a year-long schedule of eight units (formerly eight units in the fall and winter quarters, increasing to nine units in the spring quarter), SLE is unique in its intellectual rigor, multi-disciplinary approach, and residence-based structure.\n\nStructured Liberal Education was the brainchild of Stanford history professor Mark Mancall, with political theorist Hannah Arendt as one of the original proponents of the program's enactment. In some respects, Stanford's SLE is comparable to other notable \"Great Books\" programs, such as Directed Studies at Yale University, the Liberal Arts Seminar at Georgetown University, the Program of Liberal Studies at the University of Notre Dame, the Core Curriculum at Columbia University, the Core Curriculum at the University of Chicago, the Foundation Year Programme at the University of King's College, the Arts One Program at the University of British Columbia, the curriculum at St. John's College, the Bachelor of Humanities program at Carleton University in Ottawa, and the curriculum at Shimer College in Chicago, with the distinction that the culturally diverse reading list at SLE reflects Mancall's scholarly interests in East Asia.\n\nAll SLE participants live, dine, and attend class in the same residence hall, Florence Moore (FloMo). As of 2013, they live in one of the three FloMo East houses: the all-freshman dorm, Alondra, which is made up of half SLE students and half non-SLE freshmen, and the two four-class dorms, Cardenal and Faisan. Many of the upperclassmen in Cardenal and Faisan are former SLE students, which helps maintain an SLE community spanning the different years. In the main lounge of Florence Moore, known as the SLE lounge, students attend lectures given by professors within many departments at Stanford and by visiting guest lecturers. In addition, students participate in small-group sections, in which they discuss the lectures and assigned literature from SLE's extensive, diverse, and ever-evolving reading list. Films, often relating to the material of study, are screened weekly, and student-produced plays are regularly part of the syllabus. Aristophanes' \"Lysistrata\" is traditionally performed in the fall. SLE also provides freshman with intensive individual writing tutorials.\n\nSLE is now under the auspices of the Division of Literatures, Cultures, and Languages, which provides intellectual and academic support and is the base of many of the faculty who participate in the program. The administrative home of SLE is in the Residential Programs unit within the Vice Provost for Undergraduate Education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51852029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51852029", "title": "The College Fair", "text": "The College Fair\n\nThe College Fair is a U.S. based college and career planning technology company founded as Schoold in 2015 and based in San Francisco, California. The College Fair app, launched in February 2016, helps individuals make informed decisions on choosing a college and major by compiling data from a variety of sources.\n\nSchoold was co-founded by Sourabh Ahuja, who grew up in India, and spent over 10 years as a Vice President developing mobile games at Glu Mobile. Joe Ross serves on the San Mateo County Board of Education and was previously the Chief Strategy Officer at HotChalk. The College Fair app seeks to democratize access to college search and counselling. Within the first month, the app surpassed 500,000 downloads.\n\nThe College Fair has received $4.5 million in seed capital from Social Capital, FastForward Innovations, Learn Capital, and University Ventures. In addition, Lorne Abony and Joseph Grundfest have contributed.\n\n"}
{"id": "42885312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42885312", "title": "The University Centre for Studies in Namibia", "text": "The University Centre for Studies in Namibia\n\nThe University Centre for Studies In Namibia (TUCSIN) is a tertiary educational institution in Namibia. It is based in the Khomasdal suburb of the capital Windhoek and has campuses in Rehoboth, Rundu and Oshakati.\n\nTUCSIN was co-founded by Beatrice Sandelowsky on 15 June 1978. Since its inception it has trained 35,000 students and awarded over 1,000 bursaries to Namibian students. Andreas Wienecke is its current director.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14790834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14790834", "title": "United States Artists", "text": "United States Artists\n\nUnited States Artists (USA) is an independent nonprofit and nongovernmental philanthropic organization based in Chicago and dedicated to supporting the work of living American artists by the granting of cash awards, called USA Fellowships. It was founded in 2005 with initial funding from the Ford Foundation, the Rockefeller Foundation, The Prudential Foundation, and the Rasmuson Foundation, and the first set of 50 fellowships were announced in 2006. The organization is governed by a Board of Directors and receives additional funding from several major American foundations, corporate partners, and private citizens.\n\nThe organization's stated mission is \"to invest in America's finest artists and illuminate the value of artists to society.\" In addition, the organization asserts that \"USA Fellowships honor and award an artist’s unique vision as a whole rather than funding a particular project. Artists at different career levels, from emerging to established, are eligible.\"\n\nPrerequisites for consideration include that the artist be 21 or older, a US citizen or legal resident. In addition, nominees must be accomplished artists, must have acquired art training, formal or informal, must have tried to derive income from those skills, and must have been \"actively engaged in creating artwork and presenting it to the public.\" To be considered for a grant, an artist must first be nominated by at least one of a group of \"nominators\" chosen by the organization. This is an anonymous group of arts scholars, critics, and artists from various disciplines; they operate independently of one another. The nominators submit names of artists they believe should be considered for an award.\n\nOnce nominated artists have been notified of their nomination, they are then directed to apply for the grant in order to be considered. The awards are announced once a year. The Fellows announcement is made in December of each year.\n\nGrants are awarded annually to artists working in nine disciplines:\nList of United States Artists (USA) Fellowship recipients\n\n"}
{"id": "2697596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2697596", "title": "University of Constantinople", "text": "University of Constantinople\n\nThe Imperial University of Constantinople, sometimes known as the University of the Palace Hall of Magnaura (), can trace its corporate origins to 425 AD, when the Eastern Roman (Byzantine) emperor Theodosius II founded the Pandidakterion (Πανδιδακτήριον).\n\nThe Pandidakterion was refounded in 1046 by Constantine IX Monomachos who created the Departments of Law (Διδασκαλεῖον τῶν Νόμων) and Philosophy (Γυμνάσιον).\n\nAt the time various economic schools, colleges, polytechnics, libraries and fine-arts academies also operated in the city of Constantinople.\n\nByzantine society on the whole was an educated one. Primary education was widely available, sometimes even at village level and uniquely in that era for both sexes. Female participation in culture was high. Scholarship was fostered not only in Constantinople but also in institutions operated in such major cities as Antioch and Alexandria.\n\nThe original school was founded in 425 by Emperor Theodosius II with 31 chairs for law, philosophy, medicine, arithmetic, geometry, astronomy, music, rhetoric and other subjects, 15 to Latin and 16 to Greek. The university existed until the 15th century.\n\nThe main content of higher education for most students was rhetoric, philosophy and law with the aim of producing competent, learned personnel to staff the bureaucratic postings of state and church. In this sense the university was the secular equivalent of the Theological Schools. The university maintained an active philosophical tradition of Platonism and Aristotelianism, with the former being the longest unbroken Platonic school, running for close to two millennia until the 15th century. \n\nThe School of Magnaura was founded in the 9th century but did not last very long, and in the 11th new schools of philosophy and law were established at the Capitol School. The period of decline began with the Latin conquest of 1204 although the university survived as a non-secular institution under Church management until the Fall of Constantinople in 1453, and was re-established by Mehmet II as a Madrasa (an Islamic theological school) following the conquest of the city.\n\nMatthaios Kamariotis, lecturer of the University, became the first director of Phanar Greek Orthodox College, which was established in 1454.\n\nA few scholars have gone so far as calling the Pandidakterion the first \"university\" in the world, but this view does not take into account that the Byzantine centers of higher learning generally lacked the corporative structure of the medieval universities of Western Europe which were the first to use the Latin term \"universitas\" for the corporations of students and masters that came to define the institutional character of the university thereafter. Nonetheless, the \"Dictionnaire encyclopédique du Moyen Âge\" tentatively identifies the Pandidakterion of 425 AD as a \"university institution\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27271556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27271556", "title": "WizIQ", "text": "WizIQ\n\nFounded in 2007, WizIQ is a cloud-based education platform.\n\nFounded by Harman Singh, WizIQ has offices in North America: Apex ; India: Gurgaon and Mohali.\nWizIQ's Alexa traffic rank for India places it among the top 1800 highest traffic sites, and its global Alexa traffic rank is 10,201.\nWizIQ has been featured on \"TechCrunch\", \"Edsurge\", \"Mashable\", \"The Journal\", \"The New York Times\", \"ZDNet\", \"Yahoo\", \"Business Insider\", \"Learning Solutions Magazine\", \"The New Indian Express\", \"VCCircle\", \"Fast Company\", \"Skilledup\", \"The Edvocate\", and other news sites and blogs.\nWizIQ provides App for iPads and Android devices through the Apple App Store and Google Play. The platform also provides Desktop App for Windows.\n\nWizIQ is a cloud based education platform to access teaching and training modules through smartphones and laptops.\n\nWizIQ is being used in enterprises, training organizations, colleges, universities, tutoring and test-prep companies for extended and supplemental learning. Some of the WizIQ customers include: Des Moines Area Community Colleges, ECPI University, Chatham University, Independent Electrical Contractors Rocky Mountains, and Applerouth Tutoring Services in United States. Australia City College in Australia, ICPM University for Science in Egypt, ICICI Securities in India, Jamaica Stock Exchange in Jamaica, Center for Empowerment Coaching, Loud Class in South Korea, are some additional names.\n"}
{"id": "51411852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51411852", "title": "Xanagrams", "text": "Xanagrams\n\nXanagrams is an educational game that is a cross between a crossword puzzle and Scrabble. It was given away for free with the Amstrad CPC 464 and was a very popular game. There are 3 difficulty level to the game, from middle school aged to adults. A game can consist of 1-5 words and the player is given a jumble of letters to sort out to form the correct words.\n"}
