{"id": "53461533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53461533", "title": "6ix (record producer)", "text": "6ix (record producer)\n\nArjun \"6ix\" Ivatury (born February 17, 1991) is an Indian-American record producer mostly known for his work in Gaithersburg, Maryland with rapper Logic as his in-house producer. Other artists he has worked with include Dizzy Wright, Michael Christmas, QuESt, and Jessica Andrea. He is associated with the independent record label Visionary Music Group.\n\n6ix is best known for his work with Gaithersburg, Maryland rapper Logic (2010 – present) for whom he has produced over 43 songs, including eleven from Logic's latest mixtape YSIV. The first song Logic and 6ix produced together was Love Jones from Logic's first mixtape.\n\n6ix is a native of Bowie, Maryland. His father is a doctor; his mother is an engineer; his older brother is an aerospace engineer. Before he became a full-time producer, 6ix attended the University of Maryland, College Park, where he majored in neurology and physiology. In his senior year he dropped out of college in 2013 to move to Los Angeles with Logic to pursue a career in music production; he was 30 credits shy of his degree.He was nominated for Grammys for the first time for producing the song 1-800-273-8255 by Logic featuring Alessia Cara and Khalid. In an interview with SlimShady magazine, he reportedly said that Richik Dadhich is his greatest fan. \nHe is also the executive producer of Logic's latest album \"YSIV\" released on September 28, 2018 and is also collaborating with Logic for his upcoming project called \"Ultra 85\".\n"}
{"id": "57999336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57999336", "title": "Aamir Mehmood Kiani", "text": "Aamir Mehmood Kiani\n\nAamir Mehmood Kiani () is a Pakistani politician who is the current Federal Minister for National Health Services, Regulation and Coordination, in office since 20 August 2018. He has been a member of the National Assembly of Pakistan since August 2018.\n\nHe was elected to the National Assembly of Pakistan as a candidate of Pakistan Tehreek-e-Insaf (PTI) from Constituency NA-61 (Rawalpindi-V) in Pakistani general election, 2018. He received 105,000 votes and defeated Malik Ibrar Ahmed.\n\nOn 18 August, Imran Khan formally announced his federal cabinet structure and Kiani was named as Minister for National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination. On 20 August 2018, he was sworn in as Federal Minister for National Health Services, Regulations and Coordination in the federal cabinet of Prime Minister Imran Khan.\n"}
{"id": "53431290", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53431290", "title": "Abdul Hai (Delhi cricketer)", "text": "Abdul Hai (Delhi cricketer)\n\nAbdul Hai (dates unknown) was an Indian first-class cricketer active 1934–1936 who played for Delhi in two matches.\n"}
{"id": "177521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=177521", "title": "Aenesidemus", "text": "Aenesidemus\n\nAenesidemus ( or ) was a Greek Pyrrhonist philosopher, born in Knossos on the island of Crete. He lived in the 1st century BC, taught in Alexandria and flourished shortly after the life of Cicero. Photius says he was a member of Plato's Academy, but he came to dispute their theories, adopting Pyrrhonism instead. Diogenes Laertius claims an unbroken lineage of teachers of Pyrrhonism through Aenesidemus, with his teacher being Heraclides. However, little is known about the names between Timon of Phlius and Aenesidemus, so this lineage is suspect. Whether Aenesidemus re-founded the Pyrrhonist school or merely revitalized it is unknown.\n\nThere is no definite evidence about the life of Aenesidemus, but his most important work, the \"Pyrrhoneia\" was known to be dedicated to Lucius Tubero, a friend of Cicero and member of Plato's Academy whom Photius described as a colleague. Based on this information, scholars have assumed that Aenesidemus himself was also a member of the Academy. Furthermore, it has been assumed that he took part under the leadership of Philo of Larissa and probably adopted Pyrrhonism either in reaction to Antiochus of Ascalon introduction of Stoic and Peripatetic dogma into the Academy or Philo's acceptance of provisional beliefs. What little we know of Aenesidemus is by way of Photius (in his \"Myriobiblion\"), Sextus Empiricus, and also to a lesser extent by Diogenes Laertius and Philo of Alexandria.\n\nHis chief work, known in Ancient Greek as \"Pyrrhôneoi logoi\" (Πυρρώνειοι λóγοι) and often rendered into English as the \"Pyrrhonian Discourses\" or \"Pyrrhonian Principles\", dealt primarily with man's need to suspend judgment due to our epistemological limitations. It was divided into eight books, but it has not survived. We have this summary of its contents from Photius (in his \"Myriobiblion\"). \nI read Aenesidemus' eight \"Pyrrhonist Discourses.\" The overall aim of the book is to establish that there is no firm basis for cognition, either through sense-perception, or indeed through thought. Consequently, he says, neither the Pyrrhonists nor the others know the truth in things; but the philosophers of other persuasions, as well as being ignorant in general, and wearing themselves out uselessly and expending themselves in ceaseless torments, are also ignorant of the very fact that they have cognition of none of the things of which they think that they have gained cognition. But he who philosophizes after the fashion of Pyrrho is happy not only in general but also, and especially, in the wisdom of knowing that he has firm cognition of nothing. And even with regard to what he knows, he has the propriety to assent no more to its affirmation than to its denial. The whole scheme of the book is directed towards the purpose I have mentioned. In writing the discourses Aenesidemus addresses them to Lucius Tubero, one of his colleagues from the Academy, a Roman by birth, with an illustrious ancestry and a distinguished political career. In the first discourse he differentiates between the Pyrrhonists and the Academics in almost precisely the following words. He says that the Academics are doctrinaire: they posit some things with confidence and unambiguously deny others. The Pyrrhonists, on the other hand, are aporetic and free of all doctrine. Not one of them has said either that all things are incognitive, or that they are cognitive, but that they are no more of this kind than of that, or that they are sometimes of this kind, sometimes not, or that for one person they are of this kind, for another person not of this kind, and for another person not even existent at all. Nor do they say that all things in general, or some things, are accessible to us, or not accessible to us, but that they are no more accessible to us than not, or that they are sometimes accessible to us, sometimes not, or that they are accessible to one person but not to another. Nor indeed, do they say there is true or false, convincing or unconvincing, existent or non-existent. But the same thing is, it might be said, no more true than false, convincing than unconvincing, or existent or non-existent; or sometimes the one, sometimes the other; or of such a kind for one person but not for another. For the Pyrrhonist determines absolutely nothing, not even this very claim that nothing is determined. (We put it this way, he says, for lack of a way to express the thought.) But the Academics, he says, especially those from the present-day Academy, are sometimes in agreement with Stoic beliefs, and to tell the truth turn out to be Stoics fighting with Stoics. Moreover, they are doctrinaire about many things. For they introduce virtue and folly, and posit good and bad, truth and falsity, convincing and unconvincing, existent and non-existent. They give firm determinations for many other things too. It is only about the cognitive impression that they express dissent. Thus the followers of Pyrrho, in determining nothing, remain absolutely above reproach, whereas the Academics, he says, incur a scrutiny similar to that faced by the other philosophers. Above all, the Pyrrhonists, by entertaining doubts about every thesis, maintain consistency and do not conflict with themselves, whereas the Academics are unaware that they are conflicting with themselves. For to make unambiguous assertions and denials, at the same time as stating as a generalization that no things are cognitive, introduces an undeniable conflict: how is it possible to recognize that this is true, this false, yet still entertain perplexity and doubt, and not make a clear choice of the one and avoidance of the other? For if it is not known that this is good or bad, or that this is true but that false, and this existent but that non-existent, it must certainly be admitted that each of them is incognitive. But if they receive self-evident cognition by means of sense-perception or thought, we must say that each is cognitive. These similar considerations are set out by Aenesidemus of Aegae at the beginning of his discourses, to indicate the difference between the Pyrrhonists and Academics. He goes on in the same discourse, the first, also to report in summary outline the entire way of life of the Pyrrhonists.\nThe reasons for \"epoché\" are given in what are often called the ten tropes or ten modes, which Sextus Empiricus attributed to Aenesidemus. These are as follows:\n\n\nIn other words, Aenesidemus argues that experience varies infinitely under circumstances whose importance to one another cannot be accurately judged by human observers. He therefore rejects any concept of absolute knowledge of reality, since every each person has different perceptions, and they arrange their sense-gathered data in methods peculiar to themselves.\n\nEither in the \"Pyrrhonian discourses\" or some other work that did not survive, Aenesidemus assimilated the theories of Heraclitus, as is discussed in the \"Outlines of Pyrrhonism\" of Sextus Empiricus. For admitting that contraries co-exist for the perceiving subject, he was able to assert the co-existence of contrary qualities in the same object. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "38252879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38252879", "title": "Bray's Cave", "text": "Bray's Cave\n\nBray's Cave is a limestone cave in the British Overseas Territory of Gibraltar. Human remains and notable Neolithic and Bronze Age finds have been unearthed in the cave. Three almost complete skulls were recovered but the important find was that people had returned to the site to re-use it for funerals, other cranial fragments from other individuals were recovered, and it appeared that previous remains had been move aside for a more recent death.\n\nBray's Cave is located at a height of above sea level on the western slopes of the Rock of Gibraltar, within the Upper Rock Nature Reserve. It is important to note its location on the western slopes of the Rock where caves are far less common than on the eastern cliffs where sea caves like Gorham's Cave or Vanguard Cave for example are located. Before archaeological excavations began, the cave was almost entirely infilled with carstic detritus and some foothill sediments as well as large boulders from past rockfalls, giving the cave the characteristics of a rock shelter. The arduous excavation process not only revealed its important archaeological sequence but also the true nature of this cave; the cave was formed along the stratification joints of the limestone levels, in a north-south direction dipping to the west, with a varied range of speleothems typical of closed cavities with a gallery morphology.\n\nThe cave's sequence features three phases of human occupation with clearly differentiated sedimentary levels, in addition to a further two levels which are archaeologically sterile:\n\nPeriod of modern-contemporary use, ranging from the 18th to 20th centuries.\n\nPeriod of medieval occupation. The level has been identified, through the ceramic and zooarchaeological record, as a 14th-century Marinid occupation of a pastoral character, whereby the occupants made use of the cave as a 'refuge' leaving behind the remains of their ceramic belongings and hearths.\n\nBronze Age occupation with funerary use. It develops around rimstone formations as well as the caves floor and walls, forming an organised and hierarchical burial area.\n\nFounded by the Almohads with the construction of Madinat al-Fath () in the 12th century, Gibraltar was one of the strongholds of the Marinid Protectorate in the Iberian Peninsula; this is reflected in the monumental Moorish Castle with its disproportionate Tower of Homage and the baths, which can be visited today within the Gibraltar Museum, as well as in other contemporary remains found during the numerous digs carried out by the Gibraltar Museum.\n\nThe remains at Bray's Cave are characteristic of sporadic pastoral occupations, which during the Middle Ages continued to develop in many caves. A ceramic record was discovered consisting of cooking pots and bowls, along with large amounts of goat bones, many of them young, and hearth remains.\n\nGiven the lack of data available in southern Iberia in relation to the Bronze Age, the discoveries unearthed at Bray's Cave are of great importance. Previous findings, conducted by George Palao at Judge's Cave, Pete's Paradise Cave and Devil's Fall Cave, excavations carried out by non-specialists, suggested that some of the caves of Gibraltar had had a funerary use.\n\nA large circular-shaped rimstone with an approximate diameter of is located towards the bottom of the cave; a significant accumulation of angular interlocked limestone clasts were documented here, constituting the closure of a burial of great archaeological interest where several secondary burials had been carried out adapting the rimstone as if it were a cist or niche.\n\nThe burials are scattered throughout the cave, demonstrating burial areas and areas resulting from the removal of these to be reused.\n\nAlong with the palaeontological remains, a ceramic record emerged consisting of common finds from this chrono-cultural period such as bowls with in-turned, straight or parabolic rims, large globular vessels and some pots. The goat and malacological remains that were documented are a reflection of the sources of nourishment of these communities.\n\nThe burials unearthed at Bray's Cave have added to the number of known burial sites of this period in southern Iberia, such as the \"\" in Tarifa, \"La Loma del Puerco\" in Chiclana, \"El Estanquillo\" in San Fernando and \"El Cerro del Berrueco\" in Medina-Sidonia.\n"}
{"id": "49584609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49584609", "title": "C. K. Gunsalus", "text": "C. K. Gunsalus\n\nC. K. Gunsalus is the Director of the National Center for Professional and Research Ethics (NCPRE) at the University of Illinois Urbana-Champaign, in addition to being a Research Professor in the Coordinated Science Laboratory and Professor Emerita in the College of Business.\n\nGunsalus graduated Magna Cum Laude from the University of Illinois College of Law in 1984 after receiving her AB with distinction in History from the University of Illinois at Urbana-Champaign in 1978. She is licensed to practice law in the state of Illinois.\n\nGunsalus is a speaker, author and workshop presenter on matters of research integrity, leadership, ethics and professionalism in academia. Her writing and speaking has been characterized as \"lucid, practical and remarkably shrewd,\" and she presents \"an extremely useful and comprehensive set of tools and skills\" in the area of academic ethics \"in a conversational tone, with a good sense of humor.\"\n\nShe is the principal investigator for a $2.7 million project collaborating on academic leadership development with Nanyang Technological University in Singapore and was the PI for NCPRE’s centerpiece project, Ethics CORE, a national online ethics resource initiated with $1.5 million from the National Science Foundation.\n\nGunsalus has collaborated with Carol Thrush, Brian Martinson and other authorities to develop the SOuRCe, the only validated instrument for evaluating research climate in organizations. The growing dataset permits participants to compare their own environments to others both inside and outside their own institutions. Findings from use of the SOuRCe informed an April 2015 Nature article on the effects of research climate on desirable and undesirable research behaviors.\n\nHer areas of professional interest include research and organizational integrity, leadership, professionalism, negotiation, conflict resolution and communication.\n\nDuring her tenure at Illinois, Gunsalus has held appointments and taught courses in the Colleges of Law, Medicine, Business and Engineering, and served as assistant and associate vice chancellor for research from 1984-1994, associate provost from 1994-2002, associate dean of the College of Liberal Arts and Sciences from 2002-2010, as well as acting as special counsel in the Office of University Counsel and as the campus research standards (integrity) officer. She started her career at the Computer-based Education Research Laboratory, which developed the PLATO project.\n\nGunsalus is currently a member of the National Academy of Sciences Committee on Responsible Science. She chaired the American Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS) Committee on Scientific Freedom and Responsibility and, later, the AAAS Scientific Freedom and Responsibility Award committee. She has served on the AAAS Council of Delegates, the Illinois Supreme Court Commission on Professionalism, and the United States Commission on Research Integrity. In 2013, she was selected as one of 15 finalists (out of 222 nominations) for the Economist Intelligence Unit’s Best Business Professor of the Year Award. She is an elected fellow of the American Association for the Advancement of Science in recognition of her \"sustained contributions to the national debate over improving the practical handling of ethical, legal, professional and administrative issues as they affect scientific research.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2384768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2384768", "title": "CHON", "text": "CHON\n\nCHON is a mnemonic acronym for the four most common elements in living organisms: carbon, hydrogen, oxygen, and nitrogen.\n\nThe acronym CHNOPS, which stands for carbon, hydrogen, nitrogen, oxygen, phosphorus, sulfur, represents the s \nSulfur is contained in the amino acids cysteine and methionine.\nPhosphorus is contained in phospholipids, a class of lipids that are a major component of all cell membranes, as they can form lipid bilayers, which keep ions, proteins, and other molecules where they are needed for cell function, and prevent them from diffusing into areas where they should not be. Phosphate groups are also an essential component of the backbone of nucleic acids and are required to form ATP – the main molecule used as energy powering the cell in all living creatures.\n\nCarbonaceous asteroids are rich in CHON elements.\nThese asteroids are the most common type, and frequently collide with Earth as meteorites. Such collisions were especially common early in Earth's history, and these impactors may have been crucial in the formation of the planet's oceans.\n\nThe simplest compounds to contain all of the CHON elements are fulminic acid and isocyanic acid (the latter of which is much more stable), having one of each atom. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "48316847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48316847", "title": "Cabin in the Sky (musical)", "text": "Cabin in the Sky (musical)\n\nCabin in the Sky is a musical with music by Vernon Duke, book by Lynn Root, and lyrics by John Latouche. The musical opened on Broadway in 1940. The show is described as a \"parable of Southern Negro Life with echoes of Ferenc Molnár's \"Liliom\" (which would be turned into the musical \"Carousel\") and Marc Connelly's \"The Green Pastures\".\"\n\nLynn Root wrote the libretto and brought it to George Balanchine, \"who was anxious to do it as his first assignment as director of an entire Broadway production.\" Balanchine took the script to Vernon Duke to compose the music. \"On reading the script, my first impulse was to turn it down because as much as I admired the Negro race and its musical gifts, I didn't think myself sufficiently attuned to Negro folklore.\" However, Duke ended up taking up the project but insisted on \"a lyricist with some direct contact with Southern Negroes.\" Duke talked to Ira Gershwin and E.Y. Harburg but they both turned it down. (Gershwin was working on \"Lady in the Dark\" and Harburg thought the composer was \"incapable of writing the kind of score the play required.)\n\nDuke ended up picking John Latouche as his lyricist and the two began work in Virginia Beach. The two wanted to absorb aspects of the local Black culture but \"decided to stay away from pedantic authenticity and write our own kind of 'colored' songs.\"\n\nThe rehearsals for the show were rather interesting between the Russian trio (Duke, Balanchine and Boris Aronson - the designer) and the all-black cast. In his book \"Passport to Paris\", Duke quotes George Ross' description from the \"Telegram:\" \"Pit a threesome of turbulent Russians against a tempestuous cast of Negro players from Harlem and what have you got? Well, in this instance the result is a lingual ruckus approaching bedlam. At least half a dozen times at the rehearsal of \"Cabin in the Sky\", Ethel Waters, Todd Duncan, Rex Ingram, J. Rosamond Johnson, Katherine Dunham and her dancers have paused in puzzlement while the argumentative trio of Muscovites disputed a difference of opinion in their native tongue. The Russian vowels and consonants fly as thick as borsht. After ten minutes of such alien harangue and retort, Miss Waters asks what it is all about. ‘George,’ Duke generally interprets, ‘just said the answer is yes!' and then rehearsals are resumed under the flag of truce until the next vocal flare-up.\"\n\nThree days before the opening, Duke decided to replace the song \"We'll Live All Over Again\" after Waters expressed dissatisfaction with it. It was replaced with the showstopper \"Taking a Chance on Love.\" The song was originally \"Foolin' Around with Love\" which he wrote with Ted Fetter. Latouche retitled it and wrote the reprises.\n\nJ. Rosamond Johnson, besides taking a small role, trained the singing chorus. Katherine Dunham led her dancers through their slithering paces, assisted in the choreography by George Balanchine.\n\nThe musical premiered on Broadway at the Martin Beck Theatre on October 25, 1940 and closed on March 8, 1941 after 156 performances. The musical is based on the story \"Little Joe\" by Lynn Root.\n\nMusicals Tonight! presented a staged concert of the musical at the 14th Street YMHA, New York City in October 2003.\n\nThe musical was presented in a staged concert by Encores! in February 2016, starring Chuck Cooper, Norm Lewis, and LaChanze.\n\nSource: Internet Broadway Database\n\nACT 1:\n\nACT 2:\n\nThe original Broadway characters and cast:\nThe musical was very well received. Gerald Bordman wrote \"Wisely, everyone involved in the show rejected the easy excesses and crassness so many musicals resorted to. Certainly they avoided turning the evening into a black minstrel show. Throughout the production a tasteful restraint, a sense of what as appropriate to the story, was maintained. This rare display of integrity made \"Cabin in the Sky\" an attractive enough evening to keep ticket buyers coming for 20 weeks.\"\n\nThomas S. Hischak wrote, \"With enthusiastic reviews, an outstanding score, and a powerhouse cast of some of the finest African Americans in the business, it was surprising the musical did not run longer than twenty weeks.\"\n\nHowever, not everyone liked the show. Critic Richard Watts, Jr. wrote in his review that the show was \"merely a white man's self-conscious attempt to write a pseudo-folk fable of another race.\"\n\n\"Cabin in the Sky\" proved to be the last major success of Duke's career.\n\nThe show was made into the 1943 film \"Cabin in the Sky\", but as Denny Flinn stated in his book, \"It is noble that Hollywood made a black musical at all, but there are too many interpolations to the John Latouche-Vernon Duke score.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8052493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8052493", "title": "CrustaStun", "text": "CrustaStun\n\nThe CrustaStun is a device designed to administer a lethal electric shock to shellfish (such as lobsters, crabs, and crayfish) before cooking. This avoids boiling a live shellfish which may be able to experience pain in a way similar to vertebrates. The CrustaStun comprises a stainless-steel box approximately the size of a domestic microwave oven containing a tray with a wet sponge and an electrode. The shellfish is placed in the box and when the lid is closed, the wet sponge conducts the current which electrocutes the animal with a 110 volt, 2–5 amp charge. It is reported the CrustaStun renders the shellfish unconscious in 0.3 seconds and kills the animal in 5 to 10 seconds, compared to 3 minutes to kill a lobster by boiling or 4.5 minutes for a crab.\n\nThe inventor of the device, Simon Buckhaven, worked for two years with scientists from the University of Bristol to develop the device which is manufactured by a company in England, at an estimated cost of £2,500 (in 2009).\n\nThere are claims that shellfish killed with the CrustaStun taste better than those killed by boiling. Waitrose, Tesco and other major supermarkets in the United Kingdom have insisted that all shellfish products supplied to them are killed using this method.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3189400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3189400", "title": "DJ Derek", "text": "DJ Derek\n\nDJ Derek, born Derek Serpell-Morris (18 December 1941 – July 2015) was an English DJ based in Bristol. In a DJ career that spanned over 40 years, he was known for playing a blend of 60s rocksteady, reggae, ska, dancehall and soul. He was reported missing in July 2015 and his remains were found on 10 March 2016.\n\nHe was born in Bristol, the second son of a carpenter, and raised close to St Andrew's Park, off Gloucester Road. Derek was a washboard player in a skiffle group in 1956 and later a drummer in a rock and roll band, after which he spent 10–18 years working in the accounts department of the confectionery firm J. S. Fry & Sons, later part of Cadbury.\n\nFollowing his second divorce and resignation from his accountancy job in 1977, Derek began his DJ career \"by accident\" in his mid-30s, as a reggae DJ at the Star and Garter pub in Montpelier an inner city area of Bristol. He moved to the adjacent St Pauls area in 1978. DJ Derek became a well known regular and respected feature in Bristol's music scene, referred to as a \"legend\" by many sources including the city's elected mayor George Ferguson. He was nicknamed \"Britain's oldest DJ\". In 2012 he received the Bristol Lord Mayor's medal for an \"outstanding\" contribution to music in the city. Speaking to BBC Radio 4, he said he finished most sets with the Bob Marley hit \"One Love\", saying \"It's a perfect signing-off record for a reggae set—let's get together and feel all right. So next time, people, let's get together and feel all right.\" He MCed in Jamaican Patois while DJing.\n\nDerek played DJ sets at many major music festivals, including Glastonbury and The Big Chill, and places like Las Palmas (Gran Canaria); as well as regular DJ sets in London and across the UK. In June 2006 he released a compilation of his favourite tracks titled \"DJ Derek Presents Sweet Memory Sounds\", through Trojan Records. He appeared in Dizzee Rascal's video for \"Dirtee Disco\". In 2013 he played his final set before retiring at Notting Hill Arts Club in London on New Year's Eve, though he later played a one-off show in December 2014. He had a passion for travelling long distances by bus to visit newly opened Wetherspoon pubs .\n\nIn July 2015 Derek's family announced that he had been missing for three weeks, appealing for information related to his whereabouts. Police confirmed that he had not used his bank account since the beginning of July, and could not have gone abroad as he has no passport. He was last seen leaving the Criterion pub in St Pauls shortly after midnight on 11 July; later that morning his bus pass was used on a bus to Thornbury, 12 miles north of Bristol. Daddy G of Massive Attack, who described Derek as a \"walking musical encyclopedia\", played a club night in Bristol to raise funds for a search.\n\nIn December 2015, Derek's family said that a man matching his description had been seen fleeing a pub in Thornbury following an altercation; Avon and Somerset Police said that their investigations into his disappearance were continuing. Later in December, an image taken in London of a man resembling Derek was publicised. While his family noted an \"uncanny\" resemblance, Avon and Somerset Police later announced that they had located and spoken to the man photographed, and confirmed that he was not Derek. Derek's family began an application for presumed death in March 2016.\n\nOn 10 March 2016, human remains were found in undergrowth near The Mall, Cribbs Causeway, Bristol, and on 16 March were confirmed to be those of DJ Derek. Shortly after his remains were discovered, Bristol police said they were not treating his death as suspicious.\n\nDuring the 6 Music festival hosted by the BBC in Bristol in February 2016, Don Letts and Daddy G premiered a snippet of a documentary they had been working on before his disappearance. Letts said they planned to complete the film as a mark of respect, as they had halted further production until his whereabouts were revealed. In March 2016, Bristol pub The Farm in St Werburghs, one of Derek's regular haunts, revealed they were hosting an auction to raise funds for a mural near his home. On 1 April, contributions from Banksy, Fatboy Slim, Stanley Donwood and other local artists helped to raise over £5000 towards the fund. Mayor George Ferguson revealed plans for a city tribute to him, with an official announcement to follow.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34827414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34827414", "title": "Damian of Tarsus", "text": "Damian of Tarsus\n\nDamian (died 924), known in Arabic as Damyanah and surnamed Ghulam Yazman (\"slave/page of Yazman\"), was a Byzantine Greek convert to Islam, governor of Tarsus in 896–897 and one of the main leaders of naval raids against the Byzantine Empire in the early 10th century.\n\nDamian was a convert servant of the eunuch governor of Tarsus Yazman al-Khadim (died 891), who had recognized the overlordship of the Tulunids of Egypt under Ibn Tulun's son Khumarawaih. In October 896, Damian was named governor of Tarsus by the then-governor Ahmad ibn Tughan. Yusuf al-Baghmardi was his deputy and commander of the military forces of the region. Damian and al-Baghmardi, however, were ousted from Tarsus in March/April 897 by a revolt of the pro-Abbasid faction of the city under Raghib, a former \"mawla\" of al-Muwaffaq.\n\nIn 900, al-Tabari reports that Damian urged the Caliph al-Mu'tadid to burn the fleet of Tarsus, of over 50 large ships, as a revenge for his ouster three years before, a fact which greatly debilitated Muslim naval power. Nevertheless, it was as an admiral that Damian most distinguished himself. In 896 or more likely in 901, he sacked and plundered the port of Demetrias in Greece. Damian then participated in Muhammad ibn Sulayman al-Katib's campaign in winter 904–905 that wrested Egypt from the Tulunids and restored it to Abbasid control; he led a fleet up the river Nile, raided its coasts, and prevented supplies for the Tulunid forces from being ferried over it. In 911, he attacked Cyprus, which since the 7th century had been a neutralized Arab-Byzantine condominium, and ravaged it for four months because its inhabitants had assisted a Byzantine fleet under admiral Himerios in attacking the Caliphate's coasts the year before. Finally, in October 912, along with the fellow-renegade Leo of Tripoli, he scored a decisive victory over Himerios off the island of Chios. In the summer of the same year, he is mentioned as accompanying the governor of the Cilician \"thughur\", Rustam ibn Baradu, in an attack against the Byzantine frontier province of Lykandos and its Armenian governor Melias. Melias was besieged in his fortress, but the Arabs failed to take it.\n\nDamian died in 924 while leading an attack against the Byzantine fortress of Strobilos in the Cibyrrhaeot Theme. His death, along with the probable death of Leo of Tripoli the year before, brought the era of Muslim naval superiority and of constant raids against the Byzantine coasts to an end.\n\n"}
{"id": "49271852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49271852", "title": "Death of Dave Walker", "text": "Death of Dave Walker\n\nDave Walker was a Canadian writer, filmmaker and photo-journalist who died under mysterious circumstances in 2014 in Cambodia.\n\nDave Walker was born in Edmonton Canada, April 7, 1955.\n\nAfter graduating high school, Walker served briefly as a Toronto Police constable and later joined the British Army serving in Belfast, Northern Ireland during 'The Troubles' where he saw combat against the Provisional IRA (PIRA) in an urban reconnaissance unit trained by and seconded to the Special Air Service(SAS)].\n\nAfter his term of enlistment ended, Walker returned to Canada and worked as a private investigator and eventually began travelling to S.E. Asia on assignments. In the late 1980s he famously located a missing refugee girl from Cambodia whom he re-united with her refugee family in Canada. While in Canada Walker worked with CSIS (Canadian Security Intelligence Service) identifying Khmer Rouge genocide perpetrators who had infiltrated into Canada among Cambodian refugees in the 1980s.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, Walker trained Karen National Liberation Army insurgents on the Thailand-Myanmar border, where he met his wife in a remote northern Thai village. He brought her to Canada and after five years they divorced amicably. \n\nDuring the 1990s-2000s Walker worked as a freelance photo-journalist, screenwriter and movie production fixer on films like \"The Beach (film)\" and with ABC News' Diane Sawyer on her coverage of the Tsunami in 2004. He worked with Canadian filmmakers Peter Lynch and Peter Vronsky in Toronto and Cambodia. In 1998, Walker published a book of love letters he co-edited from Bangkok bar girls to their foreign boyfriends, \"Hello My Big, Big Honey!\"\n\nIn the early 1990s, Walker was co-producing an independent feature film he had written, \"The Man From Year Zero\" with actor Haing S. Ngor from the movie \"The Killing Fields (film)\". Walker's screenplay described how Cambodian refugees in Canada encounter a former Khmer Rouge executioner hiding among them and was going to feature Ngor in the role of the fugitive perpetrator. But after Ngor was murdered by Cambodian gang members in Los Angeles in 1996, the project collapsed.\n\nIn 2009, Walker earned an M.A. at York University in Toronto in the field of Augmented Reality before returning to Cambodia. As part of his M.A. thesis, Walker made a short film \"The Augmented Cambodian\".\n\nWalker continued to explore themes in Cambodia's history and in 2012 he returned to Cambodia to begin researching a documentary \"The Poorest Man\", the story of an \"Oskar Schindler\"-like former Khmer Rouge village chief who risked his life to save victims in his village from the Pol Pot regime's genocidal killings. As many of the Khmer Rouge perpetrators had returned to Cambodia in the 1990s, and re-entered government service, police, military and business, and were now claiming that they \"had no choice\" in perpetrating their crimes under Pol Pot, Walker's proposed film about the one Khmer Rouge functionary who demonstrated they did had a choice and survived Pol Pot just the same, was met with hostility from some sectors in Cambodia.\n\nOn February 14, 2014, Walker disappeared after he left his guest house in Cambodia. Hotel staff stated room service cleaning staff went to Walker's room around 2pm and he said he would leave the room so the room could be cleaned. He left with a bottle of water in hand and never returned.\n\nCambodian Police and Canada's foreign affairs department Global Affairs Canada bungled and obstructed the investigation of Walker's mysterious disappearance, while several different private investigations began to duel with each other in bitter rivalry.\n\nOn May 1, Walker's body was found at Cambodia's Angkor Temple Complex, near the \"Gates of Death\" at Angkor Thom, approximately 13 kilometers from where he disappeared. Two autopsy reports, (one commissioned by Walker's family) could not determine a cause of death but indicated that Walker died many weeks before his body was discovered, probably on the day of his disappearance. Walker's body was recovered by his ex-wife's family, cremated and his ashes enshrined in the northern Thai village where he had met his wife, as per his wishes.\n\nHis disappearance and death remain unsolved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55074456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55074456", "title": "Death of Santiago Maldonado", "text": "Death of Santiago Maldonado\n\nThe Santiago Maldonado case refers to the death of an Argentine demonstrator, who took part in a road block and was missing after the Argentine gendarmerie dispersed the demonstration. Maldonado's body was found months later in a nearby river with no signs of violence. The events took place in Cushamen, located in the Argentine province of Chubut. The autopsy of the body indicated that Santiago's cause of death was \"drowning by immersion in the water of the Chubut River, contributed by hypothermia\" and that it was a \"traumatic death\" and there were no signs of violence. The autopsy also showed that the body had stayed underwater for at least 55 days. The law-enforcement action was carried out by the Argentine National Gendarmerie, a security force that operates under the direct command of the National Security Minister, Patricia Bullrich, under the control of President Mauricio Macri.\n\nOn October 20, 2017, Santiago's family confirmed that the body found floating in Chubut River was indeed his. On October 21, a twelve-hour autopsy revealed no lesions in his body, leading experts to conclude that he had drowned. On November 24, 2017 the verdict of a commission of 55 forensic experts confirmed that Santiago Maldonado died by asphyxia and hypotermia; different studies showed that the corpse at the time of the autopsy was between 55 days and 72 days old. The experts also confirmed that there were no blows or injuries. Nevertheless, the defense insists that the case is a forced disapearance. The case was closed on November 29, 2018, when judge Gustavo Lleral ruled that there was no forced disapearance.\n\nSantiago Andrés Maldonado (born 25 July 1989) was a craftsman and tattoo artist from the town of Veinticinco de Mayo, province of Buenos Aires. A few months before his disappearance he had moved to El Bolsón, province of Río Negro, about 70 kilometers north of a Mapuche settlement named Cushamen. Maldonado supported the aboriginal communities in their land claims, but, according to his family, he had never before been politically active because \"he does not believe in politics\".\n\nThe event took place on July 31 and August 1, 2017, at the Chubut Province. The location was the Pu Lof de la Resistencia of Cushamen, a mapuche establishment built in territories seized from the Italian clothing company Benetton Group by Facundo Jones Huala. Huala, member of the Resistencia Ancestral Mapuche group, was jailed because of the violent protest activities including destruction of properties that undertook in several locations, and members of the Pu Lof organized a picketing protest at the National Route 40, advocating for his liberation. The people in the demonstration were hooded, and had completely blocked the road with trees, stones and fire, thus not allowing any transit through the road. The protest was carried out by eight people, Santiago Maldonado among them. Judge Guido Otranto instructed the Argentine National Gendarmerie to clear the blockade and disperse the protesters, who escaped. The judge had also instructed them to use minimal violence, and film the operation on video.\n\nThe protesters tried to block the road again some hours later, on August 1. The protesters reacted violently to the Gendarmerie this time, and attacked them with stones. Commander Juan Pablo Escola reported that two gendarmes were gravely injured in their faces during the attack. He sent a group of 30 gendarmes to the Pu Lof. Although he did not have a judicial warrant to do so, he considered that the attack could be considered as \"in flagrante delicto\", which would have allowed to skip that requirement.\n\nSome protesters attempted to escape by swimming across the Chubut River, and others tried to hide in a forest next to the river. Maldonado could not cross the river because he could not swim. The whereabouts of Santiago Maldonado were unknown after that point.\n\nA judicial case, led by a judge and three prosecutors, tries to determine the whereabouts of Maldonado. The national government and the provincial government of Chubut asked to be complainants in the case. The Inter-American Commission on Human Rights suggested that, in case of doubt about a case being a forced disappearance or not, it should be investigated as if it was. In line with this suggestion, the Gendarmerie was removed from taking an active role in the investigation. The United Nations Committee on Enforced Disappearances has requested to oversee the investigation, which was accepted by Argentina. As a result, both the judiciary and the Argentine government will have to keep the organization updated about every progress of the investigation.\n\nThe case was initially investigated as a search and rescue, and was later rebranded as a forced disappearance. However, the change was made without any new evidence that may suggest an involvement of the Gendarmeria.\n\nA group of twenty mapuches occupied the court on September 20, asking for the removal of judge Otranto.\n\nThe Maldonado family and the CELS accused the judge Otranto of not being an impartial jury. The federal chamber of appeals of Comodoro Rivadavia recused him from the case, but clarified in the sentence that they found no reason to doubt his intellectual honesty and respect to the procedures. He was recused instead because of an interview with the newspaper \"La Nación\", where he made an extrajudicial commentary about the accuracy of the theories, before formally closing the case. Otranto was then replaced by judge Gustavo Llerald. The Maldonado family celebrated the removal of Otranto, but complained that their specific request had been rejected. Otranto is still in charge of the case over the road block that started the case.\n\nOn 21 October 2017, after a 12-hour autopsy involving 52 experts, including those appointed by Maldonado's family, Judge Gustavo Lleral confirmed that Maldonado's body did not have any signs of violence and the cause of death was established as death by drowning. On November 24, 2017 the verdict of the 55 experts confirmed that Maldonado drowned and that there were no signs of violence on his body. How, when and why he died is still on investigation.\n\nThe prosecutor Silvina Avila asked in December 2017 to change the folder of the case from forced disappearance to suspicious death, on the grounds that the investigation did not reveal any clue that may support the forced disappearance hypothesis. There was a similar request from the Ministry of Security in May 2018. The judge Lleral rejected both requests. He pointed that the folder of the case is inconsequential, that changing it before the case was closed would be an improper advance of opinion, and that the case is not guided by the folder's name but by the results of the investigations. There are no specific members of the gendarmerie formally accused of wrongdoing or called for inquiry, which turns it into a moot point.\n\nOn August 7, 2017, the UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances expressed its \"concern about the physical and psychological integrity\" of Maldonado and requested the Argentine state to adopt \"a comprehensive search strategy\", taking \"all the urgent measures that are necessary to search for him and find him, taking into account the information provided by the members of the Pu Lof Mapuche community that were present at the moment of the repression\". The UN committee also requested that the Gendarmerie does not participate in the search and investigation of the disappearance and that the Argentine government protects all the evidence that may help to identify those responsible for the disappearance. The same day, the Minister of Security offered a reward to those who \"while not having participated in the crime, offer useful information that can help find the whereabouts\" of Maldonado.\n\nOn August 23, the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights (IACHR), of the Organization of American States, also took a precautionary measure asking the Argentine state to \"adopt all the necessary measures to determine the situation and whereabouts of Mr. Santiago Maldonado\" and to \"inform about all the measures that have been adopted to investigate the facts\".\n\nOn October 6, the UN Committee on Enforced Disappearances published a document addressed to the Argentine national government in which the former expresses its concern about the lack of progress in the clarification of what happened to Santiago Maldonado. The UN demanded the Macri administration to set as a priority the clarification of the role of the Gendarmerie and to keep this force away from the investigation. It also accused the authorities of quickly rejecting the hypothesis according to which the Gendarmerie is the perpetrator of the enforced disappearance of Maldonado. The Committee expressed its concern regarding the lack of partiality of judge Guido Otranto. It finally pointed out that there are officials of the Macri administration that continue to stigmatize the members of the Pu Lof by portraying them as a threat to national security, when the government should be instead offering protection to the Mapuche community.\n\nThe UN and the IACHR closed those cases on January 2018, a pair of months after Maldonado was found.\n\nMaldonado escaped from the Gendarmerie by trying to cross the Chubut River. A new search revealed a corpse in the river on October 17. There were no reports of other deaths or missing people in the area, and it was confirmed that it was a male, with light blue clothes as those that witnesses reported that Maldonado was wearing. The corpse was found 300 meters upstream from the area of the events.\n\nNewspaper Clarin said that the hypothesis of the government was that the presence of many aquatic plants and strong flows could make it difficult to find the corpse. The autopsy conducted on 21 October 2017 confirmed forensic evidence clearly pointed to drowning and hypotermia as the cause of death The autopsy, witnessed by 52 experts including that of the Maldonado family and international organizations, revealed no evidence of injuries. The corpse was acknowledged to be Maldonado's by the 52 experts witnessing the autopsy. On November 29, 2018 Judge Lleral closed the case citing no further evidence pointing towards anything different to an accidental drowning.\n\nDespite of the recovery of the body, and the results of the autopsy, the defense of the Maldonado family insists that the case was a forced disappearance. They consider that he had been taken and killed by the gendarmerie elsewhere, and then his body was planted into the crime scene. They say that the body presents signs of cryopreservation, although the autopsy does not reveal such signs. This theory does not provide an explanation to the absence of any signs of manipulation of the body, or the way the gendarmerie could have sneaked into a location closely watched by the mapuches. \n\nThe Maldonado family requested a deeper autopsy study, and a new autopsy by independent people. The judge rejected both requests. He considered that the results of the autopsy were clear enough, and that an autopsy by outside people would go against the sovereignty of the judicial power. The defense asked for big number of investigations, that the judge systematically rejects as extemporaneous, pointless or impossible to perform. Those rejected investigations would be cited in later judicial stages, and even in a potential international case once all the local judicial venues are done, to argue an obstruction of justice.\n\nAccording to witnesses, after the Argentine National Gendarmerie had an encounter with the Lof, agents from this security force carried somebody to a truck. Later those witnesses admitted to lying to the court and are facing perjury charges. The Gendarmerie denies having detained Maldonado, so does the minister of security, Patricia Bullrich.\n\nThe witnesses made public comments, but refused to testify in court. They proposed to testify while concealing their identities with hoods, which was rejected by the judiciary. Other witnesses told before justice that Maldonado was taken by Gendarmerie agents.\n\nEighty biological samples were retrieved from the vehicles used by the Gendarmerie during the operation, and used for a DNA test. Another fourteen samples were ignored, as they were unsuitable for testing. The results were released a month later: none of them matched the DNA of Maldonado. The value of this evidence has been disputed by public defender Fernando Machado, who argued that the samples would have been taken after the trucks had been washed. The judge dismissed those concerns.\n\nThe prosecutor Silvina Avila made a report that established that there are no solid evidences that link the Gendarmerie with Maldonado. As of September 17, the judge does not consider the theory of a forced disappearance to be likely.\n\nAudio files were taken from WhatsApp conversations held by those involved in the operation on the day. One of the files, sent by a member of the gendarmeria, states that a sergeant had \"Maldonado in a truck\". A more detailed analysis revealed that the comment was made on August 16, only as part of a private joke between members of the Gendarmerie while Bullrich explained the case to the Congress. All 70 cell phones of the gendarmes were investigated, and none of them had been used to discuss an actual forced disappearance operation.\n\nAriel Garzi, a fellow craftsman from El Bolsón, called Santiago Maldonado's cellphone on August 2. The call was answered by an unknown person. It lasted 22 seconds, during which Garzi heard the sound of steps. Ariel Garbanz, an engineer from the Communications Security Lab of the National Technological University, investigated the call and claims to know the location where the phone was answered. Judge Otranto refused to look at this evidence.\n\nMaldonado could have received a mortal wound during the escape, which would have caused his death at some later point. The Mapuches may have buried the body and then made up an accusation about an alleged forced disappearance in order to advance their political agenda.\n\nA theory considered that Maldonado was still alive, hiding in Mapuche territory. A search with search and rescue dogs conducted on August 16 suggested that he would have been in the area in the previous 24 hours.\n\nThe government also considered that Maldonado may have never been in the protest to begin with. As all people in the protest were hooded, it was not possible to properly recognize him in photos or filmings of the event. The Maldonado family reported that he was a quiet and peaceful man, which would make it unlikely that he would take part in a violent protest in a road. The mapuches Beatriz Garay Neri, Soraya Noemí Guitart and Nicolás Jones Huala reported that they talked with him on August 1, in the morning, but did not provide further details about his presence or the topics of discussion. They did not report his absence either, and ignored his full name.\n\nSantiago Maldonado used his cell phone for the last time on July 21, 2017. That day, four or five hooded members of the Resistencia Ancestral Mapuche invaded the small house of Evaristo Jones, a worker for the Benetton family. Jones reported that he tried to defend himself by stabbing one of those people with a knife. As there are no cases of knife injuries treated in nearby hospitals on that day, or info about Maldonado's activities in the immediate days prior to the August 1 protest, it is suspected that he may be the stabbed thief, and that he had bled to death days before the protest.\n\nThe family of Maldonado tried to refute this theory by providing a video of another picketing protest of the RAM that took place on July 31, which would have been attended by Maldonado. They also provide testimonials from numerous people who saw Santiago after the supposed attack. In addition, Evaristo Jones, the attacked worker, denied having hurt any of the attackers. The Maldonado family also affirms that they had telephone conversations with Santiago on July 25 (his birthday) and on July 27.\n\nThrough DNA tests it was proved that Santiago Maldonado was not injured in said episode.\n\nArgentine human rights organizations condemned the disappearance, demanding the national government to adopt measures to bring back Maldonado alive, find who is responsible for the disappearance, and keep the Gendarmerie away from the investigation. They have also accused the government of not acting diligently to find Maldonado.\n\nThe disappearance of Maldonado has also mobilized international human rights organizations, such as Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch. In Buenos Aires, La Plata, Bariloche, Mar del Plata, Bahía Blanca, General Madariaga, Mendoza, Malargüe, El Bolsón, Rawson, Viedma, Gualeguaychú, Rosario and Neuquen thousands of people marched in demonstrations demanding that Maldonado appears alive and the resignation of Bullrich. People also marched to demand that Santiago Maldonado is brought back alive in Bogotá (Colombia), Asunción (Paraguay), Montevideo (Uruguay), Canelones and Fray Bentos (Uruguay). In Spain, several Argentine residents marched to Plaça de Catalunya to ask for Santiago Maldonado. On August 11, there was a large mass demonstration in Plaza de Mayo, Buenos Aires. On August 21, during the 49th ordinary session of PARLASUR, in Montevideo, Argentine representatives condemned the disappearance of Santiago Maldonado.\n\nThe disappearance of Maldonado took place shortly before the 2017 midterm elections. Cristina Fernández de Kirchner, leader of one of the opposition parties, mentioned the case repeatedly during her rallies. Kirchner and several Kirchnerite politicians used it to draw controversial comparisons between the presidency of Mauricio Macri and the 1970s Dirty War. However, political analysts consider that the case is unlikely to affect the election results, and that the aggressive rhetoric of Kirchner may actually scare independent voters and increase the chances of the \"Cambiemos\" official coalition. the corpse of Maldonado was found a few days before the elections. By the time of voting, the Maldonado family had confirmed his identity and the initial autopsy revealed no signs of violence against the body; the official results of the full autopsy would be released a pair of weeks later.\n\nAugust 30 is the International Day of the Disappeared, and several teachers affiliated to the CTERA union mentioned the event during school classes. This action was rejected by groups of parents because it described the involvement of the Gendarmerie as a confirmed fact, and it was considered a case of political indoctrination.\n\nThe Macri administration first negated the disappearance of Maldonado. As the days went by, members of Mr. Macri's cabinet send contradictory messages.\nOn September 1, 2017, a month after Santiago Maldonado's disappearance, thousands of people expressed themselves through rallies and demonstrations asking for his appearance alive. The largest demonstration took place in Plaza de Mayo and was organized by Grandmothers of the Plaza de Mayo, Mothers of the Plaza de Mayo (Línea Fundadora), Relatives of the Disappeared and Imprisoned for Political Reasons, HIJOS, the Center for Legal and Social Studies (CELS), the Argentine League for the Rights of Man, and the Permanent Assembly for Human Rights, among other organizations. In other cities, such as Mendoza, Mar del Plata, San Luis, San Juan, Neuquén, Salta, Posadas, Jujuy, Santiago del Estero, Villaguay, Concepción del Uruguay, Gualeguaychú and Concordia there were rallies and demonstrations with the same demand. In Rosario and Córdoba there were rallies with an attendance of 40000 each. There were also protests in Spain, Brazil, France, Uruguay, Chile, Mexico, Austria and the United States which were organized through social media. In London, São Paulo, Berlin, Montevideo, Rio de Janeiro, Madrid, Barcelona, Sidney, Santiago, Mexico City, Vienna, Washington DC and New York City, groups of people expressed their solidarity with the demand for the appearance of Santiago Maldonado alive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52786511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52786511", "title": "Deaths of Tate Rowland and Terrie Trosper", "text": "Deaths of Tate Rowland and Terrie Trosper\n\nThe deaths of Janson Tate Rowland (November 7, 1970 – July 26, 1988) and Terrie John Trosper (February 27, 1969 – May 30, 1991), two siblings in Childress, Texas, occurred in 1988 and 1991, respectively. Their deaths, though ruled a suicide and an accident, were one of several cases attributed to the Satanic panic that occurred in the United States in the late 1980s.\n\nOn the evening of July 26, 1988, the body of seventeen-year-old Tate Rowland was discovered hanging from a horse apple tree on a dirt road outside of Childress, Texas by his friend, Chad Johnston. At 6 p.m., Johnston came to Rowland's house, where he told Rowland's father and stepmother, Brenda, that he had witnessed Tate hang himself. The three rushed to the tree where Chad had witnessed the suicide, and Rowland's father, Jimmie, cut him down from the tree. According to Johnston, he and Rowland had been drinking beers outside their truck near the tree; he claimed that he had walked to the other side of the truck to throw a beer can away, and when he returned, he witnessed Rowland hang himself with the rope. \n\nDuring a second interview with Johnston on July 28, he claimed that he witnessed Rowland attempt to hang himself twice; the first time, the rope broke, and the two returned to Rowland's home to retrieve another rope. Upon returning to the tree, Johnston claimed Rowland was able to successfully hang himself by standing on the hood of the car and jumping off.\n\nRowland's death was officially ruled a suicide, attributed to personal troubles regarding the breakup between him and his girlfriend the year prior; however, on the day of his death, it was reported by friends and family that he had not exhibited any signs of being upset or depressed. He had made plans to fill in as a coach at a friend's softball game that evening.\n\nThree years after the suicide of her younger brother, Terrie Trosper, age 22, was found deceased in her bed on the morning of May 31, 1991. The first autopsy of Trosper by pathologist Dr. Ralph Erdmann showed that Trosper had died as a result of choking on her own vomit.\n\nAccording to friend Lisa Barber, Trosper had never believed her younger brother had committed suicide. According to her autopsy, high levels of the Elavil were found in Trosper's blood.\n\nRumors surrounding the possibility of a Satanic cult being involved in the deaths began at Tate Rowlandson's funeral. According to the family, an unknown woman entered the chapel during Rowland's funeral, leaving before its conclusion; additionally, a male in attendance was reportedly chanting the word \"suicide\" during the funeral. According to the district attorney, there were also eyewitness reports of strangers attempting to pick up children from the local schools in the fall of 1988, and multiple phone calls were received each day by the police department claiming Rowland had been murdered due to his affiliations with a Satanic cult. \n\nIn November 1988, fifteen-year-old Ray Wilks, a peer of Rowland's, was arrested for drunkedly crashing a car into a utility pole. At his booking, Wilks claimed to have been a member of the rumored Satanic cult, and also claimed to have witnessed Rowland's death. According to Wilks' father, however, he couldn't have witnessed Rowland's death, as he was in a juvenile detention center the night of the hanging.\n\nAfter Trosper's death, the rumors were reignited after Darwin Wilks, the older brother of Ray Wilks, attempted suicide by an Elavil overdose—the same drug found in Trosper's blood. On July 27, 1991, Rowland's body was exhumed due to the circulating allegations. Though Rowland's body was too decomposed to make conclusive statements about the hanging as a suicide, there were levels of Elavil found in his remains, and the coroner claimed have been seventy percent sure that the death was a result of homicide. Trosper's body was also exhumed in late October, and the second autopsy, performed in December, revealed contusions on her thigh as well as evidence that she had been smothered to death. \n\nAfter the autopsy information was made public, rumors circulated that Tate Rowland's death had actually been a cult sacrifice attended by as many as twenty people. Other reports of robed cult members and animal sacrifices occurring in the town in the ensuing year. The speculation surrounding the deaths of Rowland and Trosper led the Texas Department of Public Safety to distribute pamphlets to local police departments listing thirty ways to determine whether or not a death had been the result of occult ritual abuse.\n\n"}
{"id": "8912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8912", "title": "Drake equation", "text": "Drake equation\n\nThe Drake equation is a probabilistic argument used to estimate the number of active, communicative extraterrestrial civilizations in the Milky Way galaxy.\n\nThe equation was written in 1961 by Frank Drake, not for purposes of quantifying the number of civilizations, but as a way to stimulate scientific dialogue at the first scientific meeting on the search for extraterrestrial intelligence (SETI). The equation summarizes the main concepts which scientists must contemplate when considering the question of other radio-communicative life. It is more properly thought of as a Fermi problem rather than as a serious attempt to nail down a precise number.\n\nCriticism related to the Drake equation focuses not on the equation itself, but on the fact that the estimated values for several of its factors are highly conjectural, the combined effect being that the uncertainty associated with any derived value is so large that the equation cannot be used to draw firm conclusions.\n\nThe Drake equation is:\n\nwhere:\n\nand\n\nIn September 1959, physicists Giuseppe Cocconi and Philip Morrison published an article in the journal \"Nature\" with the provocative title \"Searching for Interstellar Communications\". Cocconi and Morrison argued that radio telescopes had become sensitive enough to pick up transmissions that might be broadcast into space by civilizations orbiting other stars. Such messages, they suggested, might be transmitted at a wavelength of 21 cm (1,420.4 MHz). This is the wavelength of radio emission by neutral hydrogen, the most common element in the universe, and they reasoned that other intelligences might see this as a logical landmark in the radio spectrum.\n\nTwo months later, Harvard University astronomy professor Harlow Shapley speculated on the number of inhabited planets in the universe, saying \"The universe has 10 million, million, million suns (10 followed by 18 zeros) similar to our own. One in a million has planets around it. Only one in a million million has the right combination of chemicals, temperature, water, days and nights to support planetary life as we know it. This calculation arrives at the estimated figure of 100 million worlds where life has been forged by evolution.\"\n\nSeven months after Cocconi and Morrison published their article, Drake made the first systematic search for signals from communicative extraterrestrial civilizations. Using the 25 m dish of the National Radio Astronomy Observatory in Green Bank, West Virginia, Drake monitored two nearby Sun-like stars: Epsilon Eridani and Tau Ceti. In this project, which he called Project Ozma, he slowly scanned frequencies close to the 21 cm wavelength for six hours per day from April to July 1960. The project was well designed, inexpensive, and simple by today's standards. It detected no signals.\n\nSoon thereafter, Drake hosted a \"search for extraterrestrial intelligence\" meeting on detecting their radio signals. The meeting was held at the Green Bank facility in 1961. The equation that bears Drake's name arose out of his preparations for the meeting.\n\nThe ten attendees were conference organizer J. Peter Pearman, Frank Drake, Philip Morrison, businessman and radio amateur Dana Atchley, chemist Melvin Calvin, astronomer Su-Shu Huang, neuroscientist John C. Lilly, inventor Barney Oliver, astronomer Carl Sagan and radio-astronomer Otto Struve. These participants dubbed themselves \"The Order of the Dolphin\" (because of Lilly's work on dolphin communication), and commemorated their first meeting with a plaque at the observatory hall.\n\nThe Drake equation amounts to a summary of the factors affecting the likelihood that we might detect radio-communication from intelligent extraterrestrial life. The last four parameters, , , , and , are not known and are very difficult to estimate, with values ranging over many orders of magnitude (see criticism). Therefore, the usefulness of the Drake equation is not in the solving, but rather in the contemplation of all the various concepts which scientists must incorporate when considering the question of life elsewhere, and gives the question of life elsewhere a basis for scientific analysis. The Drake equation is a statement that stimulates intellectual curiosity about the universe around us, for helping us to understand that life as we know it is the end product of a natural, cosmic evolution, and for helping us realize how much we are a part of that universe. What the equation and the search for life has done is focus science on some of the other questions about life in the universe, specifically abiogenesis, the development of multi-cellular life and the development of intelligence itself.\n\nWithin the limits of our existing technology, any practical search for distant intelligent life must necessarily be a search for some manifestation of a distant technology. After about 50 years, the Drake equation is still of seminal importance because it is a 'road map' of what we need to learn in order to solve this fundamental existential question. It also formed the backbone of astrobiology as a science; although speculation is entertained to give context, astrobiology concerns itself primarily with hypotheses that fit firmly into existing scientific theories. Some 50 years of SETI have failed to find anything, even though radio telescopes, receiver techniques, and computational abilities have improved enormously since the early 1960s, but it has been discovered, at least, that our galaxy is not teeming with very powerful alien transmitters continuously broadcasting near the 21 cm hydrogen frequency. No one could say this in 1961.\n\nAs many observers have pointed out, the Drake equation is a very simple model that does not include potentially relevant parameters, and many changes and modifications to the equation have been proposed. One line of modification, for example, attempts to account for the uncertainty inherent in many of the terms.\n\nOthers note that the Drake equation ignores many concepts that might be relevant to the odds of contacting other civilizations. For example, David Brin states: \"The Drake equation merely speaks of the number of sites at which ETIs spontaneously arise. The equation says nothing directly about the contact cross-section between an ETIS and contemporary human society\". Because it is the contact cross-section that is of interest to the SETI community, many additional factors and modifications of the Drake equation have been proposed.\n\n\n\n\n\nSeager stresses, “We’re not throwing out the Drake Equation, which is really a different topic,” explaining, “Since Drake came up with the equation, we have discovered thousands of exoplanets. We as a community have had our views revolutionized as to what could possibly be out there. And now we have a real question on our hands, one that’s not related to intelligent life: Can we detect any signs of life in any way in the very near future?”\n\nThere is considerable disagreement on the values of these parameters, but the 'educated guesses' used by Drake and his colleagues in 1961 were: \n\nInserting the above minimum numbers into the equation gives a minimum N of 20 (see: Range of results). Inserting the maximum numbers gives a maximum of 50,000,000. Drake states that given the uncertainties, the original meeting concluded that , and there were probably between 1000 and 100,000,000 civilizations in the Milky Way galaxy.\n\nThis section discusses and attempts to list the best current estimates for the parameters of the Drake equation.\nLatest calculations from NASA and the European Space Agency indicate that the current rate of star formation in our galaxy is about of material per year. To get the number of stars per year, this must account for the initial mass function (IMF) for stars, where the average new star mass is about . This gives a star formation rate of about 1.5–3 stars per year.\n\nRecent analysis of microlensing surveys has found that may approach 1—that is, stars are orbited by planets as a rule, rather than the exception; and that there are one or more bound planets per Milky Way star.\n\nIn November 2013, astronomers reported, based on \"Kepler\" space mission data, that there could be as many as 40 billion Earth-sized planets orbiting in the habitable zones of sun-like stars and red dwarf stars within the Milky Way Galaxy. 11 billion of these estimated planets may be orbiting sun-like stars. Since there are about 100 billion stars in the galaxy, this implies is roughly 0.4. The nearest planet in the habitable zone is Proxima Centauri b, which is as close as about 4.2 light-years away.\n\nThe consensus at the Green Bank meeting was that had a minimum value between 3 and 5. Dutch science journalist Govert Schilling has opined that this is optimistic. Even if planets are in the habitable zone, the number of planets with the right proportion of elements is difficult to estimate. Brad Gibson, Yeshe Fenner, and Charley Lineweaver determined that about 10% of star systems in the Milky Way galaxy are hospitable to life, by having heavy elements, being far from supernovae and being stable for a sufficient time.\n\nThe discovery of numerous gas giants in close orbit with their stars has introduced doubt that life-supporting planets commonly survive the formation of their stellar systems. So-called hot Jupiters may migrate from distant orbits to near orbits, in the process disrupting the orbits of habitable planets.\n\nOn the other hand, the variety of star systems that might have habitable zones is not just limited to solar-type stars and Earth-sized planets. It is now estimated that even tidally locked planets close to red dwarf stars might have habitable zones, although the flaring behavior of these stars might argue against this. The possibility of life on moons of gas giants (such as Jupiter's moon Europa, or Saturn's moon Titan) adds further uncertainty to this figure.\n\nThe authors of the rare Earth hypothesis propose a number of additional constraints on habitability for planets, including being in galactic zones with suitably low radiation, high star metallicity, and low enough density to avoid excessive asteroid bombardment. They also propose that it is necessary to have a planetary system with large gas giants which provide bombardment protection without a hot Jupiter; and a planet with plate tectonics, a large moon that creates tidal pools, and moderate axial tilt to generate seasonal variation.\n\nGeological evidence from the Earth suggests that may be high; life on Earth appears to have begun around the same time as favorable conditions arose, suggesting that abiogenesis may be relatively common once conditions are right. However, this evidence only looks at the Earth (a single model planet), and contains anthropic bias, as the planet of study was not chosen randomly, but by the living organisms that already inhabit it (ourselves). From a classical hypothesis testing standpoint, there are zero degrees of freedom, permitting no valid estimates to be made. If life were to be found on Mars, Europa, Enceladus or Titan that developed independently from life on Earth it would imply a value for close to 1. While this would raise the degrees of freedom from zero to one, there would remain a great deal of uncertainty on any estimate due to the small sample size, and the chance they are not really independent.\n\nCountering this argument is that there is no evidence for abiogenesis occurring more than once on the Earth — that is, all terrestrial life stems from a common origin. If abiogenesis were more common it would be speculated to have occurred more than once on the Earth. Scientists have searched for this by looking for bacteria that are unrelated to other life on Earth, but none have been found yet. It is also possible that life arose more than once, but that other branches were out-competed, or died in mass extinctions, or were lost in other ways. Biochemists Francis Crick and Leslie Orgel laid special emphasis on this uncertainty: \"At the moment we have no means at all of knowing\" whether we are \"likely to be alone in the galaxy (Universe)\" or whether \"the galaxy may be pullulating with life of many different forms.\" As an alternative to abiogenesis on Earth, they proposed the hypothesis of directed panspermia, which states that Earth life began with \"microorganisms sent here deliberately by a technological society on another planet, by means of a special long-range unmanned spaceship\".\n\nThis value remains particularly controversial. Those who favor a low value, such as the biologist Ernst Mayr, point out that of the billions of species that have existed on Earth, only one has become intelligent and from this, infer a tiny value for . Likewise, the Rare Earth hypothesis, notwithstanding their low value for above, also think a low value for dominates the analysis. Those who favor higher values note the generally increasing complexity of life over time, concluding that the appearance of intelligence is almost inevitable, implying an approaching 1. Skeptics point out that the large spread of values in this factor and others make all estimates unreliable. (See Criticism).\n\nIn addition, while it appears that life developed soon after the formation of Earth, the Cambrian explosion, in which a large variety of multicellular life forms came into being, occurred a considerable amount of time after the formation of Earth, which suggests the possibility that special conditions were necessary. Some scenarios such as the snowball Earth or research into the extinction events have raised the possibility that life on Earth is relatively fragile. Research on any past life on Mars is relevant since a discovery that life did form on Mars but ceased to exist might raise our estimate of f but would indicate that in half the known cases, intelligent life did not develop.\n\nEstimates of have been affected by discoveries that the Solar System's orbit is circular in the galaxy, at such a distance that it remains out of the spiral arms for tens of millions of years (evading radiation from novae). Also, Earth's large moon may aid the evolution of life by stabilizing the planet's axis of rotation.\n\nFor deliberate communication, the one example we have (the Earth) does not do much explicit communication, though there are some efforts covering only a tiny fraction of the stars that might look for our presence. (See Arecibo message, for example). There is considerable speculation why an extraterrestrial civilization might exist but choose not to communicate. However, deliberate communication is not required, and calculations indicate that current or near-future Earth-level technology might well be detectable to civilizations not too much more advanced than our own. By this standard, the Earth is a communicating civilization.\n\nAnother question is what percentage of civilizations in the galaxy are close enough for us to detect, assuming that they send out signals. For example, existing Earth radio telescopes could only detect Earth radio transmissions from roughly a light year away.\n\nMichael Shermer estimated as 420 years, based on the duration of sixty historical Earthly civilizations. Using 28 civilizations more recent than the Roman Empire, he calculates a figure of 304 years for \"modern\" civilizations. It could also be argued from Michael Shermer's results that the fall of most of these civilizations was followed by later civilizations that carried on the technologies, so it is doubtful that they are separate civilizations in the context of the Drake equation. In the expanded version, including \"reappearance number\", this lack of specificity in defining single civilizations does not matter for the end result, since such a civilization turnover could be described as an increase in the \"reappearance number\" rather than increase in , stating that a civilization reappears in the form of the succeeding cultures. Furthermore, since none could communicate over interstellar space, the method of comparing with historical civilizations could be regarded as invalid.\n\nDavid Grinspoon has argued that once a civilization has developed enough, it might overcome all threats to its survival. It will then last for an indefinite period of time, making the value for potentially billions of years. If this is the case, then he proposes that the Milky Way galaxy may have been steadily accumulating advanced civilizations since it formed. He proposes that the last factor be replaced with , where is the fraction of communicating civilizations become \"immortal\" (in the sense that they simply do not die out), and representing the length of time during which this process has been going on. This has the advantage that would be a relatively easy to discover number, as it would simply be some fraction of the age of the universe.\n\nIt has also been hypothesized that once a civilization has learned of a more advanced one, its longevity could increase because it can learn from the experiences of the other.\n\nThe astronomer Carl Sagan speculated that all of the terms, except for the lifetime of a civilization, are relatively high and the determining factor in whether there are large or small numbers of civilizations in the universe is the civilization lifetime, or in other words, the ability of technological civilizations to avoid self-destruction. In Sagan's case, the Drake equation was a strong motivating factor for his interest in environmental issues and his efforts to warn against the dangers of nuclear warfare.\n\nAs many skeptics have pointed out, the Drake equation can give a very wide range of values, depending on the assumptions, and the values used in portions of the Drake equation are not well-established. In particular, the result can be , meaning we are likely alone in the galaxy, or , implying there are many civilizations we might contact. One of the few points of wide agreement is that the presence of humanity implies a probability of intelligence arising of greater than zero.\n\nAs an example of a low estimate, combining NASA's star formation rates, the rare Earth hypothesis value of , Mayr's view on intelligence arising, Drake's view of communication, and Shermer's estimate of lifetime:\ngives:\ni.e., suggesting that we are probably alone in this galaxy, and possibly in the observable universe.\n\nOn the other hand, with larger values for each of the parameters above, values of can be derived that are greater than 1. The following higher values that have been proposed for each of the parameters:\nUse of these parameters gives:\n\nMonte Carlo simulations of estimates of the Drake equation factors based on a stellar and planetary model of the Milky Way have resulted in the number of civilizations varying by a factor of 100.\n\nThe Drake equation can be modified to determine just how unlikely intelligent life must be, to give the result that Earth has the only intelligent life that has ever arisen, either in our galaxy or the universe as a whole. This simplifies the calculation by removing the lifetime and communication constraints. Since star and planets counts are known, this leaves the only unknown as the odds that a habitable planet \"ever\" develops intelligent life. For Earth to have the only civilization that has ever occurred in the universe, then the odds of any habitable planet ever developing such a civilization must be less than . Similarly, for Earth to host the only civilization in our galaxy for all time, the odds of a habitable zone planet ever hosting intelligent life must be less than (about 1 in 60 billion). The figure for the universe implies that it is highly unlikely that Earth hosts the only intelligent life that has ever occurred. The figure for our galaxy suggests that other civilizations may have occurred or will likely occur in our galaxy.\n\nCriticism of the Drake equation follows mostly from the observation that several terms in the equation are largely or entirely based on conjecture. Star formation rates are well-known, and the incidence of planets has a sound theoretical and observational basis, but the other terms in the equation become very speculative. The uncertainties revolve around our understanding of the evolution of life, intelligence, and civilization, not physics. No statistical estimates are possible for some of the parameters, where only one example is known. The net result is that the equation cannot be used to draw firm conclusions of any kind, and the resulting margin of error is huge, far beyond what some consider acceptable or meaningful.\n\nOne reply to such criticisms is that even though the Drake equation currently involves speculation about unmeasured parameters, it was intended as a way to stimulate dialogue on these topics. Then the focus becomes how to proceed experimentally. Indeed, Drake originally formulated the equation merely as an agenda for discussion at the Green Bank conference.\n\nThe pessimists' most telling argument in the SETI debate stems not from theory or conjecture but from an actual observation: the presumed lack of extraterrestrial contact. A civilization lasting for tens of millions of years might be able to travel anywhere in the galaxy, even at the slow speeds foreseeable with our own kind of technology. Furthermore, no confirmed signs of intelligence elsewhere have been recognized as such, either in our galaxy or in the observable universe of 2 trillion galaxies. According to this line of thinking, the tendency to fill up all available territory seems to be a universal trait of living things, so the Earth should have already been colonized, or at least visited, but no evidence of this exists. Hence Fermi's question \"Where is everybody?\".\n\nA large number of explanations have been proposed to explain this lack of contact; a book published in 2015 elaborated on 75 different explanations. In terms of the Drake Equation, the explanations can be divided into three classes:\n\n\nThese lines of reasoning lead to the Great Filter hypothesis, which states that since there are no observed extraterrestrial civilizations, despite the vast number of stars, then some step in the process must be acting as a filter to reduce the final value. According to this view, either it is very difficult for intelligent life to arise, or the lifetime of such civilizations, or the period of time they reveal their existence, must be relatively short.\n\nThe equation was cited by Gene Roddenberry as supporting the multiplicity of inhabited planets shown on \"Star Trek\", the television series he created. However, Roddenberry did not have the equation with him, and he was forced to \"invent\" it for his original proposal. The invented equation created by Roddenberry is:\nHowever, a number raised to the first power is merely the number itself.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36394269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36394269", "title": "EcoSim", "text": "EcoSim\n\nEcoSim is an individual-based predator-prey ecosystem simulation in which agents can evolve. It has been designed to investigate several broad ecological questions, as well as long-term evolutionary patterns and processes such as speciation and macroevolution. EcoSim has been designed by Robin Gras at the University of Windsor in 2009 and it is still currently used for research in his Bioinformatics and Ecosystem Simulation Lab.\n\nThe agents have a behavior model which allows the evolutionary process to modify the behaviors of the predators and prey. Furthermore, there is a speciation mechanism which allows to study global patterns as well as species-specific patterns. In EcoSim, an individual's genomic data codes for its behavioral model and is represented by a fuzzy cognitive map (FCM). The FCM contains sensory concepts such as foodClose or predatorClose, internal states such as fear or hunger, and motor concepts such as escape or reproduce. The FCM is represented as an array of floating-point values which represent the extent to which one concept influences another. For example, it would be expected that the sensory concept predatorClose would positively affect the internal concept fear, which would then positively affect the escape motor concept. These relationships among concepts evolve over time, sometimes giving a new meaning to a concept. Furthermore, the FCM is heritable, meaning that a new agent is given an FCM which is a combination of that of its parents with possible mutations.\n\nEcoSim subscribes to the “genotypic cluster” definition of a species. Speciation has been implemented using a 2-means clustering algorithm technique designed to allow the splitting of an existing species into two species, by clustering the individuals that initially belonged to the first species into one of the new two species, each one of them containing the agents that are mutually the most similar. Since EcoSim has the capacity to allow speciation events to occur, it is possible to track speciation events throughout a run of the simulation and construct the actual phylogenetic tree.\n\nEach agent also possesses several physical characteristics such as: maximum and current ages, minimum age for mating, maximum and current speeds, vision distance, maximum and current levels of energy, and the amount of energy transmitted to the offspring. Energy is provided to individuals by the resources (grass or meat) they find in their environment. An agent consumes some energy each time it performs an action and proportionally to the complexity (number of edges) of its FCM. If an individual uses all its energy, it dies.\n\nA typical run lasts several tens of thousands of time steps. Each time step involves the time needed for each agent to perceive its environment, use its behavioral model to make a decision, perform its action as well as the time to update the species membership, including speciation events and all the world parameters. In a typical run, more than one billion of agents can be born and several thousands of species can be generated, which allows new behaviors to emerge and agents to adapt to a constantly changing environment. In addition, a food chain consisting of three levels, primary producers, predators and preys, has been implemented allowing complex interactions between agents and co-evolution to occur. All events, the mental state and action of every agent, are saved for every time step of every run. This allows a deep statistical analysis of the whole system using several dedicated tools that we have conceived to extract, measure and correlate any possible facts that could be useful to understand the underlying and emerging properties of the system.\n\nSeveral studies have already been done using EcoSim. For example, Devaurs and Gras have analyzed the species abundance patterns observed in the communities generated by EcoSim, based on Fisher's log series. This study shows that the communities of species generated by the simulation follow the same lognormal law as natural communities and that EcoSim can help to evaluate the overall level of diversity of a given community. In other studies, the chaotic behavior of the system with multi-fractal properties has been proven in as it also has been observed for real ecosystems. Mashayekhi and Gras investigated the effect of spatial distribution and spatiotemporal information on speciation. In more recent research, Golestani et al. investigated how small, randomly distributed physical obstacles influence the distribution of populations and species, the level of population connectivity (e.g., gene flow), as well as the mode and tempo of speciation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1615707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1615707", "title": "Elizabeth Knepp", "text": "Elizabeth Knepp\n\nElizabeth Knepp or Knipp (died 1681) was a British actress, singer, and dancer. The earliest theatrical reference to Knepp is from 1664, as being intended by Thomas Killigrew to play the part of Lusetta in his play \"Thomaso\". This means that she was probably in his troupe, the King's Company, by that time. From 1666 onwards she is recorded as playing many parts, both tragic and comic, including Lady Fidget in William Wycherley's \"The Country Wife\". In 1664, she became the first woman to perform the title role in Jonson's \"Epicoene\". She also occasionally spoke prologues and epilogues, and often danced and sang in or between acts.\n\nKnepp's husband was reputedly \"ill-natured\" and treated her badly. Samuel Pepys was fascinated by Knepp, and his diary for 1666—68 is full of references to her, including mentions of amorous encounters, and descriptions of how much he enjoyed her flirtatiousness and especially her singing. In the late 1670s she became mistress to the actor Joseph Haines, and died in 1681 giving birth to his stillborn child.\n\n"}
{"id": "1250773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1250773", "title": "Enrique Salinas", "text": "Enrique Salinas\n\nEnrique Eduardo Guillermo Salinas de Gortari (November 15, 1952 – December 6, 2004) was the third of four brothers of former president of Mexico Carlos Salinas. \n\nOn December 6, 2004 his corpse was found, with a plastic bag placed over his head, inside a Volkswagen Passat. The vehicle was abandoned in the upmarket municipality of Huixquilucan, Estado de México, on the outskirts of Mexico City. The authorities gave asphyxiation as the cause of death. \n\nUnlike his brothers ex-president Carlos and convicted felon Raúl, Enrique had eschewed the world of politics in favour of the business sector. \n\nSalinas' widow and kids reside in Lausanne, Switzerland\n\n"}
{"id": "1073853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1073853", "title": "Frederick II, Duke of Austria", "text": "Frederick II, Duke of Austria\n\nFrederick II (; 25 April 1211 – 15 June 1246), known as Frederick the Quarrelsome (\"Friedrich der Streitbare\"), was Duke of Austria and Styria from 1230 until his death. He was the fifth and last Austrian duke from the House of Babenberg, since the former margraviate was elevated to a duchy by the 1156 \"Privilegium Minus\". He was killed in the Battle of the Leitha River, leaving no male heirs.\n\nBorn in Wiener Neustadt, Frederick was the second surviving son of the Babenberg duke Leopold VI of Austria and Theodora Angelina, a Byzantine princess. The death of his elder brother Henry in 1228 made him the only heir to the Austrian and Styrian duchies.\n\nHis first spouse was Byzantine princess Sophia Laskarina, probably a daughter of Theodore I Laskaris and his first wife Anna Komnene Angelina, who died in 1222. Frederick secondly married Agnes of Merania in 1229, a member of the noble House of Andechs whose dowry included large possessions in Carniola and the Windic March. From 1232 Frederick called himself \"Dominus Carniolae\" (\"Lord of Carniola\"), however, the couple divorced due to childlessness in 1243.\n\nFrederick succeeded his father in 1230. Proud of his Byzantine descent, the young duke soon was known as \"the Quarrelsome\" because of his harsh rule and frequent wars against his neighbors, primarily with Hungary, Bavaria and Bohemia. Even the Austrian Kuenring \"ministeriales\", which had so far been faithful to the ruling house, started an insurgency as soon as his reign began.\n\nAccording to the \"Weltchronik\" of Jans der Enikel, Frederick had gone to the court of Emperor Frederick II by his summon, leading a procession of 200 knights wearing the triband colors of Austria. When he approached the Emperor, he was enthusiastically invited—by both command and request of Emperor Frederick—to eat bread with him. The Duke refused, stating he brought his own gold. But the Emperor insisted without prevailing. Thus instead he ordered that no one in the town sell the Duke firewood for his kitchen. Duke Frederick instead sought a house to buy and when the Emperor learned of this, forbade it. Duke Frederick then instructed his marshal to go out late at night and buy some nuts so that his food could be prepared. Duke Frederick had impressed the Emperor so much that he allowed him the sale of firewood and whatever he wishes. Afterwards, the Duke asked to be shown the Emperor's assassins, which he was allowed. They moved onto the town's tower, which stood 50 cubics tall, and brought out two of his assassins. The Emperor then told one to jump down and without a thought, the man leapt and fell to his death. Immediately, Duke Frederick was impressed by the sheer loyalty of these men and the Emperor stopped the other man from jumping. The experience convinced the Duke of the Emperor's power. \n\nMost dangerous were his disputes with the Hohenstaufen Emperor Frederick II in the course of the rebellion of the emperor's son Henry (VII), husband of Frederick's sister Margaret. Not only had the duke refused to appear at the 1232 Reichstag diet in Aquileia, appealing to the Austrian \"Privilegium Minus\" privileges, and displeased the emperor by picking quarrels with King Béla IV of Hungary, he furthermore seemed to be involved in his brother-in-law Henry's conspiracy. When he again refused to attend the 1235 diet in Mainz, Emperor Frederick II finally ostracized him and gave permission to King Wenceslaus I of Bohemia to invade the Austrian lands. Vienna opened its gates for the united Bohemian and Bavarian forces and during the years of Frederick's ban even became an imperial free city, where the emperor had his son Conrad IV elected King of the Romans in 1237. However, the expelled duke managed to maintain his position as the ruler of an Austrian rump state at his Wiener Neustadt residence. In the same year, Frederick enacted the \"Landrecht\" Law, which required all subjects to defend the country in the case of invasion.\n\nIn 1239, in a spectacular change in imperial politics, Duke Frederick became one of the emperor's most important allies. In 1241, Duke Frederick was one of the very few Western European commanders who faced the Mongols during their invasion of Europe. When the Mongols started pillaging Hungary and Croatia, King Bela IV asked the papacy and the Western European rulers for help. Duke Frederick sent a very small expeditionary force of knights to assist the Hungarians. He and his knights managed to defeat a small Mongolian raiding party during the initial stages of the Battle of Mohi, but they soon left after inter-conflicts with King Bela IV and the Cumans in the region. He would meet the Mongols again, this time in his own country. After the defeat of Hungary, the Mongols now set their sights on Vienna. A minor raiding squadron started pillaging Wiener Neustadt in Southern Vienna, but Duke Frederick together with his knights and foreign allies, defeated them and drove them out. The Austrians would again defeat the Mongols in the River March in Theben. Afterwards, the Mongols never again try to invade Austria.\n\nThe conflict with Bohemia was settled by the engagement of his niece Gertrude of Babenberg with King Wenceslaus' eldest son Margrave Vladislaus of Moravia. Negotiations with the emperor about the elevation of Vienna to a bishopric and of Austria (including Styria) to a kingdom were initiated, however, on condition that the duke's niece Gertrude now would have to marry the fifty-year-old emperor, who moreover had recently been banned by Pope Gregory IX and needed allies. In 1245 the terms were arranged, but the willful young girl, then in her late teens, refused to appear in the consummation ceremony at the diet of Verona. In the year before his death, Duke Frederick finally succeeded in gaining the rule over the March of Carniola from the Patriarchate of Aquileia, but upon his death it fell to the Carinthian duke Bernhard von Spanheim.\n\nDuke Frederick's ambitious plans were dashed when he died at the Battle of the Leitha River, in another border conflict he had picked with the Hungarian king Béla IV. He is buried at Heiligenkreuz Abbey.\n\nAs the Austrian \"Privilegium Minus\" of 1156 also allowed women to inherit, Frederick's sister Margaret and his niece Gertrude would have been entitled to the throne. Shortly after the death of her uncle, Gertrude first married her fiancé Vladislaus of Moravia, who nevertheless died in the next year, then Margrave Herman VI of Baden, who did not manage to maintain his position in Austria, and finally in 1252 Prince Roman Danylovich, a younger brother of Kynaz Lev I Rurik, son-in-law of the Hungarian king, who also ended in divorce in 1253.\n\nIn the same year the Bohemian Přemyslids made a second attempt to confirm their claims to the Austrian and Styrian duchies by arranging the marriage between Gertrude's aunt Margaret of Babenberg and King Wenceslaus' son Ottokar II, more than twenty years her junior. Subsequently, Austria became a field of conflict between the Přemyslids and the Hungarian Árpád dynasty, in which Ottokar at first would prevail defeating King Béla at the 1260 Battle of Kressenbrunn, until finally being overthrown by the Habsburg king Rudolf I of Germany at the Battle on the Marchfeld in 1278.\n\nAs the last Babenberg duke, Frederick the Quarrelsome signifies the end of an era in the history of Austria, beginning with the enfeoffment of Margrave Leopold I in 976. With his overambitious plans, which were frequently foiled by his erratic character, he somewhat resembled his later Habsburg successor Duke Rudolf IV. According to the 18th century historian Chrysostomus Hanthaler, Frederick was the first Austrian duke utilizing the red-white-red coat of arms after his accession—an attempt to prevail against the reluctant local nobles and to stress his autonomy towards Emperor Frederick II. The triband is first documented in a seal on a deed issued on 30 November 1230, confirming the privileges of Lilienfeld Abbey. The medieval chronicler Jans der Enikel reports that the duke appeared in a red-white-red ceremonial dress at his 1232 accolade in the Vienna Schottenstift.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "287421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=287421", "title": "George Adams (instrument maker, elder)", "text": "George Adams (instrument maker, elder)\n\nGeorge Adams (c. 1709–1773) was an English instrument maker and science writer. His son George Adams, who carried on the business, was also known as an instrument maker and optician.\n\nHe was the eldest surviving son of Morris Adams, a cook, and his wife Mary, and was baptised in 1709. He was an apprentice to instrument makers, James Parker who died, and then Thomas Heath. He went into business in 1734, in Fleet Street, London.\n\nAdams was best known for \"A Treatise Describing the Construction and Explaining the Use of New Celestial and Terrestrial Globes\" (London: 1766). There were later editions, but the claim of 30 up to 1810 is not now accepted. Other works were:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10805712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10805712", "title": "Gold Dust (elephant)", "text": "Gold Dust (elephant)\n\nGold Dust (c. 1873 – November 4, 1898) was a male Asian elephant that resided at the National Zoo in Washington, D.C. from April 30, 1891 until his death. He was indefinitely lent to the National Zoo as a companion for Dunk by the Adam Forepaugh Circus. He is also alleged to have disemboweled a man in Worcester, Massachusetts in 1884.\n\nOn November 3, 1898, Gold Dust collapsed while walking to Rock Creek with his companion Dunk. Even with Dunk's assistance, he was unable to rise and died the following morning. A postmortem examination revealed that his intestines were inflamed and his teeth were in bad shape and could not close properly.\n\n"}
{"id": "44149749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44149749", "title": "Harris County Does", "text": "Harris County Does\n\nThe Harris County Does consist of two currently unidentified youths discovered on January 12, 1981 in Houston, Harris County, Texas near Wallisville Road. Extensive investigation has been conducted with few leads.\n\nBoth victims, a male and female, were found murdered, approximately eight weeks to two months before, between November and December 1980. Although their weights were impossible to estimate and the faces were not recognizable due to decomposition, their fingerprints, dental records and DNA were taken. Both of their bodies were hidden on private property in the woods around 100 yards from the road and later found by a dog. They were both buried in indigent graves near to the then-unidentified Michelle Garvey, who was later identified and transported to Connecticut in 2014.\n\nThe female, who was white with a possible Native American-admixture, was between the ages of eighteen and twenty five, although she may have been as young as fifteen. The cause of her death was ruled to be strangulation. She was estimated to have been around five feet four inches to five feet nine inches tall. Her hair was eighteen inches long and reddish-brown, styled in a ponytail. Her eyes were believed to have been brown and both of her ears were likely pierced, although only one earring was found in her right ear. She had excellent dental hygiene, as did her companion. The victim was found near a pair of green jogging shorts and a \"bloody towel\" and no clothing was found on her body. What are considered to be identifying factors for the girl is that she likely had an abnormal amount of hair on her face and she had a gap between her two front teeth. The victim was presumably a nail biter, as her fingernails were noticeably short. Her wisdom teeth were emerging at the time of death. Nine missing people from Texas and one from Pennsylvania have been ruled out as possible identities of the female.\n\nThe male was somewhat older, estimated to be twenty to thirty years old, although he could have been as young as fifteen. Like the female, he was also white, had brown eyes and brown hair, although it was wavy and six inches long. The male was around five feet four to five feet eight inches tall at the time of his murder, which had been committed through beating. Unlike the female, he was bound and gagged. He had prominent eyebrows and some deterioration of some of his upper vertebrae in the neck region, possibly the result of an injury in the past or the presence of an abnormal joint. As for dentals, one filling was found in one of the molars; he also had restorations and his upper wisdom teeth were not found, as they may have been removed or they may not have developed. Six missing men were ruled out as possible identities for the male victim.\n\n"}
{"id": "42024858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42024858", "title": "Jerome Alexander", "text": "Jerome Alexander\n\nSir Jerome Alexander (c.1585–1670) was an English-born barrister, judge and politician who spent much of his career in Ireland (after he had been professionally ruined in England) and became a substantial Irish landowner. He was a noted benefactor of Trinity College Dublin. As a judge he was so ruthless in securing guilty verdicts, and in imposing the death penalty, that for many years after his death the saying \"to be Alexandered\" was an Irish synonym for being hanged.\n\nHis precise date of birth is uncertain, but he was stated in 1637 to be several years older than Sir Maurice Eustace, who was born about 1590. He was born at Gressenhall, Norfolk, the eldest son of Jerome Alexander senior of Thorpland, an employee of Thomas Howard, 21st Earl of Arundel; the younger Jerome was also employed for a time as steward and bailiff to the Earl, and remained on friendly terms with him in later life. Elrington Ball states that the Alexander family were of Jewish origin. He was educated at Aylsham school, and then at Gonville and Caius College, Cambridge, where he matriculated in 1609. He entered Furnivall's Inn and then proceeded to Lincoln's Inn in 1617, and was called to the bar in 1623.\n\nHis legal career was destroyed by a finding of professional misconduct against him: unusually, this did not arise from his services to a client. He was, unlike most barristers, very litigious on his own behalf, and in 1626 the Star Chamber found him guilty of tampering with evidence in one of his own lawsuits; he was disbarred, fined and given a prison sentence. He moved to Ireland, where he entered the King's Inn and began to practice at the Irish Bar. It is unclear if the Benchers of the King's Inn were then aware of his criminal record; if not, they certainly learned of it within the next few years. In 1633 he received a Royal pardon, on condition that he did not return to legal practice in England. In 1644 he published his \"Breviate\", a 100-page pamphlet in defence of his actions. It gives a valuable, if inevitably slanted picture of his early life, and describes all his misfortunes as being due to the machinations of his enemies (this was to be a constant theme of Alexander's throughout his life).\n\nHe entered politics, and sat in the Irish House of Commons as MP for Lifford in the Parliament of 1634–5 and that of 1639–49. He was a friend and client of the wealthy and influential young nobleman James Butler, 1st Duke of Ormonde, who granted him the impressive dwelling Kilcooly Abbey in County Tipperary; he was also granted lands near Kells, County Meath.\n\nHe was also befriended by other influential figures in Ireland, including James Ussher, Archbishop of Armagh: but his hope of further career advancement was destroyed by the arrival in Ireland of the new Lord Lieutenant, Thomas Wentworth, 1st Earl of Strafford, who despised Alexander and described him with contempt as \"a scurvy puritan\". Strafford, who became almost all-powerful in Ireland, and who was well aware that Alexander had been professionally disgraced in England, vetoed his appointment as an extra judge of assize in 1637: the ostensible reason was that only Sir Maurice Eustace, the King's Serjeant was qualified to act as an extra judge, but Strafford's references to Eustace as a \"man of integrity\" can also be read as an attack on Alexander's character. He refused him leave to go to England, and when Alexander went to England anyway he was imprisoned in the Fleet Prison, nor following his release was he able to return to Ireland until after Strafford's downfall. Given the enmity between the two men, it is not surprising that Alexander was active in the impeachment of Strafford in 1641.\n\nHe returned briefly to Ireland after Strafford's death, but on the outbreak of the Irish Rebellion of 1641 went back to England. He was an active Royalist, and attempted to raise troops to subdue Ireland; at the same time he was among those who urged the King, if necessary, to make an alliance with the Irish Confederacy. For attempting to arrange such an alliance he was briefly imprisoned by Parliament in 1643, and on his release he went abroad. He was in the service of Charles II at the Hague in 1650, and was active in raising money for his cause, but he returned to Ireland in 1655. He made his peace with the new regime, and acquired an estate in County Westmeath; but in view of the rewards he received in 1660, (even if they were not overly generous), there is no reason to doubt that he remained a Royalist at heart.\n\nAt the Restoration of Charles II, Alexander claimed to have played a major part in securing the support of the Irish Government for the new regime (in fact there was virtually no opposition in Ireland to the Restoration), and he complained at length about the great losses he had suffered during the Interregnum. He was rewarded with a knighthood and a place on the Court of Common Pleas (Ireland), no doubt largely though the influence of the Duke of Ormonde, who had the last word on appointments to the Irish Bench at the Restoration, and was always loyal (some thought overly so) to old friends like Alexander. Nonetheless Alexander was plainly dissatisfied at ranking only as second justice of the Court: he claimed that he should have been given the office of Chief Justice of the Irish Common Pleas, and quarreled with Sir William Aston, justice of the Court of King's Bench (Ireland) over which of them had precedence. Rumour had it that he challenged Aston to a duel on the issue, but to Alexander's disgust Aston refused the challenge. He also acted as legal adviser to the future King James II on his Irish affairs.\n\nHe was a stern enforcer of religious conformity: in his will he refers to the Church of England as \"the best form of Government in all this world\". On the Ulster circuit, to which he was regularly assigned, he became noted for severity against non-conforming Protestants: his ally John Bramhall, Bishop of Derry wrote that if the non-conformists \"could not love him, they began to fear him\".\n\nIt has been suggested that he had an equally harsh attitude towards Roman Catholics, but that he was unable to show similar severity towards them, due to the relaxed attitude of the Duke of Ormonde, now Lord Lieutenant of Ireland. Ormonde recognised that since Catholics were a large majority of the Irish population, a generous if unofficial measure of toleration of that faith was inevitable. However Alexander's attitude to Roman Catholics was perhaps more complex than this: he was, for example, on friendly terms with the well-known Catholic barrister Patrick D'Arcy, who offered to act as his second in the abortive duel with Sir William Aston. Through marriage Alexander himself had Catholic connections: his wife Elizabeth Havers belonged to a staunchly Roman Catholic family . Her ancestor Mr Havers of Thelton Hall built a chapel on the grounds of Thelton Hall which became the hub of the Catholic community in and around Diss, Norfolk, before during and after the oppression. Elizabeth's elder brother William Havers, who inherited Thelton in 1651, and who died in 1670, was a known recusant. This suggests that Alexander, like many Protestants of his time, was prepared to turn a blind eye to recusancy when it was practiced by his own friends or relatives, and even to marry into an openly Catholic family himself.\n\nThe Duke of Ormonde, who was a merciful man by the standards of the time, is known to have disapproved of Alexander's notorious severity in criminal trials. This attitude was in notable contrast to the conduct of most other Irish judges of the time who were, like Ormonde, inclined to clemency. Where Ormonde would always reprieve a man where he could, Alexander, it was said, would hang as many men as \"he\" could : on one occasion he sentenced fourteen men to death at a single assize. His reputation for severity became such that for many years after his death \"to be Alexandered\" was widely used in Ireland as a synonym for \"to be hanged\".\n\nHe died in the summer of 1670, and was buried in St Patrick's Cathedral, Dublin. Much of his property, including Kilcooley Abbey, passed to his daughter Elizabeth, on condition that she did not marry an Irishman (she did not); he also left £100 to each of the three children of his eldest surviving daughter Jeromina Langham. His law books and other texts he left to Trinity College Dublin, with enough money to pay for a librarian, (the King's Inns, of which he was a senior member, had no facilities for storing books at the time, and had to wait till 1788 for the foundation of its own library). His friend Sir Edward Massey received many of his personal valuables and curiosities, such as \"my cane with the silver head of a rhinoceros\". As he had already done in his \"Breviate\", he dwelt in his will on the machinations of his enemies, and rejoiced that God's grace had enabled him to triumph over them. More humanely, he noted that God in return required him to help the poor and needy.\n\nBall suggests that he would have been most unhappy had he known that his place on the Bench would be taken by Oliver Jones, who was noted for his impartiality towards Roman Catholics, and was widely suspected of being a secret Catholic himself. However it seems that Alexander, whose wife was a member of a notable Roman Catholic family, may have been more tolerant of the Catholic faith in private than his severe public stance suggested .\n\nAlexander married Elizabeth Havers, a daughter of John Havers of Shelfhanger, a noted recusant, who like Alexander's father was an employee of the Earl of Arundel, and his wife Elizabeth Tindal of Banham; she died in 1667. They had sixteen children, many of whom died young; but at least three of his daughters survived their father:\n\n\nElrington Ball describes Alexander as a \"strongly complex character\". He was a bitter enemy but a good friend; he was merciless towards criminals, but charitable towards the poor. Throughout his life he was inclined to blame his misfortunes on the machinations of his enemies, even those disasters which to any detached observer would seem to be entirely his own fault. As a young barrister he was found guilty of misconduct, but as a judge prided himself on not taking bribes. He publicly called for the persecution of Roman Catholics, but married into an openly Catholic family. Burke called him a man of strong passions, but also a man of great integrity and public spirit.\n\n"}
{"id": "46424631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46424631", "title": "John C. Adams", "text": "John C. Adams\n\nJohn Charles \"Red\" Adams (March 2, 1887 – ?) was a college football player.\n\nHe was a prominent center for the Ole Miss Rebels football team of the University of Mississippi. Adams was nominated though not selected for an \"Associated Press\" All-Time Southeast 1869-1919 era team.\nAdams was captain of the 1912 team. He was selected All-Southern by Nathan Stauffer of \"Collier's Weekly\".\n"}
{"id": "14145268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14145268", "title": "Joseph Barker (mayor)", "text": "Joseph Barker (mayor)\n\nJoseph \"Joe\" Barker (ca. 1806– August 2, 1862) was an American public and political figure of the 1800s remembered to this day for his rash, uncompromising temper, and violent tirades against corruption, often drawing large crowds, landing him in prison, and paving way for his term in office as the 17th mayor of Pittsburgh.\n\nThe origins of Joe Barker are shrouded in mystery: nothing is known of his early years, background, or even his date of birth, as evident by its absence on his epitaph.\n\nBarker's appearance, in contrast to what was common of the era, was described as always cleanly shaven and well-dressed in nearly all black attire. It was said of him never to be seen without a neckcloth, black stovepipe hat, and long black cape.\n\nImportant, although sparse, details are provided in the information collected by the Census of 1850. Barker is listed therein as 44 years old and living in Pittsburgh's Fifth Ward with his Irish-born wife Jane Holmes and three children, Charles Augustus, Eliza, and David. His birthplace is described as being in \"Pennsylvania\", and his occupation is given as \"Mayor\". Contrary to propaganda spread by his enemies, and even incorrectly referenced in articles to this day, Barker was far from illiterate, as clearly indicated on the 1850 census; he was instead described as having a silver tongue. As a perhaps sardonic nod to his opposition, Barker chose to leave the \"sane\" category on the census unchecked.\n\nJoe Barker gained vast public attention and notoriety as a street preacher of the violent class, vehemently attacking political corruption. In November 1849, a riot broke out following one of Barker's more extreme tirades in Market Square, Mayor John Herron had him arrested on three counts:\nOn November 19 the charges resulted in a fine and 12-month jail sentence, but Barker did not exactly display remorse, stating, \"\"Judge Patton made a threat two weeks ago of what he would do if I was thrown into his power. Now let him touch me if he dares. I'll hang him to a lamppost if he lays a finger on me\".\" The next mayoral election was fast approaching, and Barker's nativist supporters circulated a write-in petition during his imprisonment which resulted in his election as mayor to succeed Herron. Accounts of Barker's one-year 1850–51 term describe it as a period of religious and nativist strife.\n\nBarker lived for eleven years after leaving the mayoralty and despite a number of additional attempts, never again held public office. He was in his mid-fifties at the time of his decapitation in a train accident in the neighboring town of Manchester (a part of Pittsburgh since 1908). Interment was in Allegheny Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "969806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=969806", "title": "Lionel Tate", "text": "Lionel Tate\n\nLionel Alexander Tate (born January 30, 1987) is the youngest American citizen ever sentenced to life imprisonment without possibility of parole. In January 2001, when Tate was 13, he was convicted of first-degree murder for the 1999 battering death of 6-year-old Tiffany Eunick in Broward County, Florida.\n\nOn July 28, 1999 Tate was left alone with Eunick, who was being babysat by Tate's mother, Kathleen Grossett-Tate. While the children were downstairs playing, Tate's mother called to them to be quiet. Tate came up 45 minutes later to say that Eunick was not breathing. He stated that they were wrestling, he had her in a head lock and the child's head hit a table.\n\nTate was convicted of killing Eunick by stomping on her so forcefully that her liver was lacerated. Her other injuries included a fractured skull, fractured rib and swollen brain. These injuries were characterized by the prosecution as \"similar to those she would have sustained by falling from a three-story building.\" In sentencing Tate to life imprisonment, Judge Joel T. Lazarus of Broward County Circuit Court said that \"The acts of Lionel Tate were not the playful acts of a child [...] The acts of Lionel Tate were cold, callous and indescribably cruel.\"\n\nFlorida Statutes required the jury to convict Tate of first-degree murder even if the jury did not believe that he intended to kill or injure anyone—all that was required was that Tate knowingly abused another child who died as a result (wherein any intentional act that could reasonably be expected to result in physical injury to a child is \"child abuse\" per Florida statutes).\n\nThe rule for such convictions is known as the felony murder rule. The sufficient conditions of the felony murder rule were listed by the judge Joel T. Lazarus during sentencing.\n\nThus Tate was sentenced to life in prison without the prosecution having to prove that he intended to kill or injure, or realized that his acts are likely to kill or injure, or even that a typical child of his age would or should realize this.\n\nCritics, such as the various groups listed in the Amicus Brief attached to Tate's appeal, assert that convicting preteen children of 1st-degree murder without having to prove these children intended any harm, not to mention serious injury or death, is unacceptable.\n\nThe sentence was controversial because Tate was 12 years old at the time of the death, and his victim was 6. He was the youngest person in modern US history to be sentenced to life imprisonment, bringing broad criticism on the treatment of juvenile offenders in the justice system of the state of Florida.\n\nAfter the conviction, the prosecution openly joined Tate's plea for leniency in sentencing, and even offered to help in his appeal. The trial judge criticized the prosecution for compromising the integrity of the adversarial system, and said that if the prosecution felt that life imprisonment was not warranted, they should not have charged him with murder in the first place.\n\nIn January 2004, a state appeals court overturned his conviction on the basis that his mental competency had not been evaluated before trial. This opened the way for Tate to accept the same plea deal he originally turned down, and he was released on one year's house arrest and 10 years' probation.\n\nOn September 3, 2004, Tate was detained and held in prison for violating the terms of his house arrest when he was found out of his house and carrying an eight-inch knife.\n\nOn May 23, 2005, Tate was charged with armed burglary with battery, armed robbery and violation of probation, the Broward County Sheriff's Office said.\n\nTate threatened Domino's Pizza deliveryman Walter Ernest Gallardo with a handgun outside a friend's apartment after phoning in an order. Gallardo dropped the four pizzas and fled the scene. Tate then re-entered the apartment, assaulting the occupant who did not want Tate inside.\n\nGallardo called 9-1-1 upon reaching the Domino's store and returned to identify Tate, the sheriff's office said in a statement. No gun was recovered.\n\nOn March 1, 2006, Tate accepted a plea bargain and was to be sentenced to 30 years' imprisonment in a sentencing hearing in April 2006. Tate admitted that he had violated probation by possessing a gun during the May 23 robbery that netted four pizzas worth $33.60, but he has refused to answer questions about where he got it and later disposed of the gun. He was allowed to withdraw his guilty plea for robbery, but was finally sentenced to 30 years in prison on May 18, 2006 for violating probation. On October 24, 2007, Florida's 4th District Court of Appeal upheld that sentence.\n\nOn February 19, 2008, Tate pleaded no contest to the pizza robbery and was sentenced to 10 years in state prison. The sentence will run concurrently with his 30-year sentence for violating his probation.\n\n"}
{"id": "37947974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37947974", "title": "List of 2012 murders in the United States", "text": "List of 2012 murders in the United States\n\nList of 2012 murders in the United States\n"}
{"id": "13434603", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13434603", "title": "List of Presidents of the United States who died in office", "text": "List of Presidents of the United States who died in office\n\nDuring the history of the United States, eight presidents have died in office. Of those eight, four were assassinated and four died of natural causes. In all eight cases, the Vice President of the United States took over the office of presidency as part of the United States presidential line of succession.\n\nWilliam Henry Harrison holds the record for shortest term served, holding the office of presidency for 31 days before his death. Harrison was the first president to die in office when he caught pneumonia and died on April 4, 1841. On July 9, 1850, Zachary Taylor died from acute gastroenteritis. Abraham Lincoln was the first president to be assassinated. He was shot by John Wilkes Booth on the night of April 14, 1865 and died the following morning. Sixteen years later, on July 2, 1881, President James A. Garfield was shot by Charles J. Guiteau, surviving for over two months before dying on September 19, 1881. Nearly twenty years later, President William McKinley died eight days after being shot twice by Leon Czolgosz on September 6, 1901. President Warren G. Harding suffered a heart attack, and died on August 2, 1923. On April 12, 1945, Franklin D. Roosevelt collapsed and died as a result of a cerebral hemorrhage. The most recent president to die in office was John F. Kennedy, who was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald with two rifle shots on November 22, 1963, in Dallas, Texas.\n\nOn March 26, 1841, William Henry Harrison became ill with a cold. According to the prevailing medical misconception of that time, it was believed that his illness was directly caused by the bad weather at his inauguration; however, Harrison's illness did not arise until more than three weeks after the event. The cold worsened, rapidly turning to pneumonia and pleurisy. He sought to rest in the White House, but could not find a quiet room because of the steady crowd of office seekers. His extremely busy social schedule made any rest time scarce.\n\nHarrison's doctors tried cures, applying opium, castor oil, leeches, and Virginia snakeroot. But the treatments only made Harrison worse, and he became delirious. He died nine days after becoming ill, at 12:30 am on April 4, 1841, of right lower lobe pneumonia, jaundice, and overwhelming septicemia. He was the first United States president to die in office. His last words were to his doctor, but assumed to be directed at Vice President John Tyler, \"Sir, I wish you to understand the true principles of the government. I wish them carried out. I ask nothing more.\" Harrison served the shortest term of any American president: March 4 – April 4, 1841, 30 days, 12 hours, and 30 minutes.\n\nHarrison's funeral took place in the Wesley Chapel in Cincinnati, Ohio, on April 7, 1841. His original interment was in the public vault of the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D.C. He was later buried in North Bend, Ohio. The William Henry Harrison Tomb State Memorial was erected in his honor.\n\nOn July 4, 1850, Taylor was known to have consumed copious amounts of ice water, cold milk, green apples, and cherries after attending holiday celebrations and the laying of the cornerstone of the Washington Monument. That same evening, he became severely ill with an unknown digestive ailment. Doctors used popular treatments of the time. Taylor died in the White House at 10:35 p.m. on July 9, five days after becoming ill. Contemporary reports listed the cause of death as \"bilious diarrhea, or a bilious cholera\". He was succeeded by Vice President Millard Fillmore.\n\nThe cause of Zachary Taylor's death was fully established in 2001. Almost immediately after his death, rumors began to circulate that Taylor was poisoned by pro-slavery Southerners, and similar theories persisted into the twentieth century. The remains were exhumed and transported to the Office of the Kentucky Chief Medical Examiner on June 17, 1991. Neutron activation analysis conducted at Oak Ridge National Laboratory revealed no evidence of poisoning, as arsenic levels were too low. The analysis concluded Taylor had contracted \"cholera morbus, or acute gastroenteritis\", as Washington had open sewers, and his food or drink may have been contaminated.\n\nTaylor was interred in the Public Vault of the Congressional Cemetery in Washington, D.C. from July 13, 1850 to October 25, 1850. (It was built in 1835 to hold remains of notables until either the grave site could be prepared or transportation arranged to another city.) His body was transported to the Taylor Family plot where his parents are buried, on the old Taylor homestead plantation known as 'Springfield' in Louisville, Kentucky.\n\nThe assassination of Abraham Lincoln took place on Good Friday, April 14, 1865, as the American Civil War was drawing to a close. The assassination occurred five days after the commanding General of the Army of Northern Virginia, Robert E. Lee, surrendered to General Ulysses S. Grant and the Army of the Potomac. Lincoln was the first American president to be assassinated, though an unsuccessful attempt had been made on Andrew Jackson 30 years before in 1835.\n\nThe assassination of Lincoln was planned and carried out by the well-known stage actor John Wilkes Booth, a Confederate sympathizer, vehement in his denunciation of Lincoln, and a strong opponent of the abolition of slavery in the United States. Booth and a group of co-conspirators originally plotted to kidnap Lincoln, but later planned to kill him, Vice President Andrew Johnson, and Secretary of State William H. Seward in a bid to help the Confederacy's cause. (Vice President Johnson's assailant did not carry out his part of the plan, and Johnson succeeded Lincoln as President.)\n\nLincoln was shot once in the back of his head while watching the play \"Our American Cousin\" with his wife Mary Todd Lincoln at Ford's Theatre in Washington, D.C. at around 10:15 pm on the night of April 14, 1865. An army surgeon who happened to be at Ford's, Doctor Charles Leale, assessed Lincoln's wound as mortal. The unconscious President was then carried across the street from the theater to the Petersen House, where he remained in a coma for nine hours before dying the following morning at 7:22 a.m. on April 15.\n\nThe assassination of James A. Garfield took place in Washington, D.C. on July 2, 1881. Garfield was shot by Charles J. Guiteau at 9:30 am, less than four months into Garfield's term as the 20th President of the United States. Garfield died eleven weeks later on September 19, 1881. His Vice President, Chester A. Arthur, succeeded Garfield as President. Garfield also lived the longest after the shooting, compared to other assassinated Presidents. Garfield was scheduled to leave Washington on July 2, 1881 for his summer vacation. On that day, Guiteau lay in wait for the President at the Baltimore and Potomac Railroad station, on the southwest corner of present-day Sixth Street and Constitution Avenue NW, Washington, D.C.\n\nPresident Garfield came to the Sixth Street Station on his way to his alma mater, Williams College, where he was scheduled to deliver a speech. Garfield was accompanied by two of his sons, James and Harry, and Secretary of State Blaine. Secretary of War Robert Todd Lincoln waited at the station to see the President off. Garfield had no bodyguard or security detail; with the exception of Abraham Lincoln during the Civil War, early U.S. presidents never used any guards.\n\nAs President Garfield entered the waiting room of the station Guiteau stepped forward and pulled the trigger from behind at point-blank range. \"My God, what is that?\" Garfield cried out, flinging up his arms. Guiteau fired again and Garfield collapsed. One bullet grazed Garfield's shoulder; the other hit him in the back, passing the first lumbar vertebra but missing the spinal cord before coming to rest behind his pancreas.\n\nGarfield, conscious but in shock, was carried to an upstairs floor of the train station. One bullet remained lodged in his body, but doctors could not find it. Young Jim Garfield and James Blaine both broke down and wept. Robert Todd Lincoln, deeply upset and thinking back to the death of his father, said \"How many hours of sorrow I have passed in this town.\"\n\nGarfield was carried back to the White House. Although doctors told him that he would not survive the night, the President remained conscious and alert. The next morning his vital signs were good and doctors began to hope for recovery. A long vigil began, with Garfield's doctors issuing regular bulletins that the American public followed closely throughout the summer of 1881. His condition fluctuated. Fevers came and went. Garfield struggled to keep down solid food and spent most of the summer eating little, and that only liquids.\n\nGarfield had been a regular visitor to the shore town of Long Branch, New Jersey, one of the nation's premier summer vacation spots until World War I. In early September, it was decided to bring him to Elberon, a quiet beach town just to the south of Long Branch, in hopes that the beach air would help him recover. When they heard that the president was being brought to their town, local citizens built more than half a mile of tracks in less than 24 hours, enabling Garfield to be brought directly to the door of the oceanfront Franklyn cottage, rather than being moved by carriage from the local Elberon train station. However, Garfield died 12 days later. A granite marker on Garfield Rd identifies the former site of the cottage, which was demolished in 1950.\n\nChester Arthur was at his home in New York City on the night of September 19, when word came that Garfield had died. After first getting the news, Arthur said \"I hope—my God, I do hope it is a mistake.\" But confirmation by telegram came soon after. Arthur took the presidential oath of office, administered by a New York Supreme Court judge, then left for Long Branch to pay his respects before traveling on to Washington. Garfield's body was taken to Washington, where it lay in state for two days in the Capitol Rotunda before being taken to Cleveland, where the funeral was held on September 26.\n\nWhen the tracks that had been hastily built to the Franklyn cottage were later torn up, actor Oliver Byron bought the wooden ties, and had local carpenter William Presley build them into a small tea house, in commemoration of the president. The red & white (originally red, white & blue) \"Garfield Tea House\" still survives, resting a couple of blocks away from the site of the cottage on the grounds of the Long Branch Historical Museum, a former Episcopal Church. The church is nicknamed \"The Church of the Presidents\", as it had been attended by, in addition to Garfield, Presidents Chester A. Arthur, Ulysses S. Grant, Benjamin Harrison, Rutherford Hayes, William McKinley, and Woodrow Wilson, during their own visits to Long Branch.\n\nWilliam McKinley was assassinated on September 6, 1901, inside the Temple of Music on the grounds of the Pan-American Exposition in Buffalo, New York. McKinley was shaking hands with the public when he was shot by Leon Czolgosz, an anarchist. The President died eight days later on September 14 from gangrene caused by the bullet wounds.\n\nMcKinley had been elected for a second term in 1900. He enjoyed meeting the public, and was reluctant to accept the security available to his office. The Secretary to the President, George B. Cortelyou, feared an assassination attempt would take place during a visit to the Temple of Music, and twice took it off the schedule. McKinley restored it each time.\n\nCzolgosz had lost his job during the economic Panic of 1893 and turned to anarchism, a political philosophy whose adherents had killed foreign leaders. Regarding McKinley as a symbol of oppression, Czolgosz felt it was his duty as an anarchist to kill him. Unable to get near McKinley during the earlier part of the presidential visit, Czolgosz shot McKinley twice as the President reached to shake his hand in the reception line at the temple. One bullet grazed McKinley; the other entered his abdomen and was never found.\n\nMcKinley initially appeared to be recovering, but took a turn for the worse on September 13 as his wounds became gangrenous, and died early the next morning; Vice President Theodore Roosevelt succeeded him. Roosevelt was hiking near the top of Mt. Marcy, in New York State's Adirondack region, when a runner located him to convey the news. After McKinley's murder, for which Czolgosz was put to death in the electric chair, the United States Congress passed legislation to officially charge the Secret Service with the responsibility for protecting the president.\n\nWarren G. Harding died from a sudden heart attack in his hotel suite while visiting San Francisco at around 7:35 p.m. on August 2, 1923. His death quickly led to theories that he had been poisoned or committed suicide. Rumors of poisoning were fueled, in part, by a book called \"The Strange Death of President Harding,\" in which the author (convicted criminal, former Ohio Gang member, and detective Gaston Means, hired by Mrs. Harding to investigate Warren Harding and his mistress) suggested that Mrs. Harding had poisoned her husband after learning of his infidelity. Mrs. Harding's refusal to allow an autopsy on President Harding only added to the speculation. According to the physicians attending Harding, however, the symptoms in the days prior to his death all pointed to congestive heart failure. Harding's biographer, Samuel H. Adams, concluded that \"Warren G. Harding died a natural death which, in any case, could not have been long postponed\".\n\nImmediately after President Harding's death, Mrs. Harding returned to Washington, D.C., and briefly stayed in the White House with the new President Calvin Coolidge and First Lady. For a month, former First Lady Harding gathered and destroyed by fire President Harding's correspondence and documents, both official and unofficial. Upon her return to Marion, Ohio, Mrs. Harding hired a number of secretaries to collect and burn President Harding's personal papers. According to Mrs. Harding, she took these actions to protect her husband's legacy. The remaining papers were held and kept from public view by the \"Harding Memorial Association\" in Marion.\n\nOn March 29, 1945, Franklin D. Roosevelt went to the Little White House in Warm Springs, Georgia, to rest before his anticipated appearance at the founding conference of the United Nations in late April in San Francisco. On the afternoon of April 12, Roosevelt said, \"I have a terrific pain in the back of my head.\" He then slumped forward in his chair, unconscious, and was carried into his bedroom. The president's attending cardiologist, Dr. Howard Bruenn, diagnosed a massive cerebral hemorrhage (stroke). At 3:35 pm that day, Roosevelt died without regaining consciousness. As Allen Drury later said, \"so ended an era, and so began another.\" After Roosevelt's death, an editorial by \"The New York Times\" declared, \"Men will thank God on their knees a hundred years from now that Franklin D. Roosevelt was in the White House\".\nIn his later years at the White House, when Roosevelt was increasingly overworked, his daughter Anna Roosevelt Boettiger had moved in to provide her father companionship and support. Anna had also arranged for her father to meet with his former mistress, the now widowed Lucy Mercer Rutherfurd. A close friend of both Roosevelt and Mercer who was present, Elizabeth Shoumatoff, rushed Mercer away to avoid negative publicity and implications of infidelity. When Eleanor heard about her husband's death, she was also faced with the news that Anna had been arranging these meetings with Mercer and that Mercer had been with Franklin when he died.\n\nOn the morning of April 13, Roosevelt's body was placed in a flag-draped coffin and loaded onto the presidential train. After a White House funeral on April 14, Roosevelt was transported back to Hyde Park by train, guarded by four servicemen, one each from the Army, Navy, Marines, and Coast Guard. As was his wish, Roosevelt was buried in the Rose Garden of the Springwood estate, the Roosevelt family home in Hyde Park on April 15. Eleanor died in November 1962 and was buried next to him.\n\nRoosevelt's death was met with shock and grief across the U.S. and around the world. His declining health had not been known to the general public. Roosevelt had been president for more than 12 years, longer than any other person, and had led the country through some of its greatest crises to the impending defeat of Nazi Germany and within sight of the defeat of Japan as well.\n\nLess than a month after his death, on May 8, the war in Europe ended. President Harry S. Truman, who turned 61 that day, dedicated Victory in Europe Day and its celebrations to Roosevelt's memory, and kept the flags across the U.S. at half-staff for the remainder of the 30-day mourning period. In doing so, Truman said that his only wish was \"that Franklin D. Roosevelt had lived to witness this day.\"\n\nJohn F. Kennedy was assassinated at 12:30 p.m. Central Standard Time (18:30 UTC) on Friday, November 22, 1963, in Dealey Plaza, Dallas, Texas. Kennedy was fatally shot while traveling with his wife Jacqueline, Texas Governor John Connally, and the latter's wife Nellie, in a Presidential motorcade. The ten-month investigation by the Warren Commission of 1963–1964 concluded that President Kennedy was assassinated by Lee Harvey Oswald and that Oswald had acted entirely alone. It also concluded that Jack Ruby acted alone when he killed Oswald in police custody. Nonetheless, polls conducted from 1966 to 2004 found that as many as 80 percent of Americans have suspected that there was a plot or cover-up.\n\nMost current John F. Kennedy assassination conspiracy theories put forth a criminal conspiracy involving parties as varied as the CIA, the Mafia, anti-Castro Cuban exile groups, the military industrial complex, sitting Vice President Lyndon B. Johnson, Cuban President Fidel Castro, FBI director J. Edgar Hoover, the KGB, or some combination of those entities. In an article published prior to the 50th anniversary of Kennedy's assassination, author Vincent Bugliosi estimates that a total of 42 groups, 82 assassins, and 214 people have been accused in conspiracy theories challenging the \"lone gunman\" theory.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42503000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42503000", "title": "List of unidentified murder victims in the United States", "text": "List of unidentified murder victims in the United States\n\nOf the thousands of people murdered every year in the United States, several remain unidentified. Many of these individuals remain unidentified for years or even decades after their deaths. Cases include that of Tammy Jo Alexander, who was murdered in 1979 and remained an unidentified decedent until 2015, and Reet Jurvetson, who was murdered in 1969 and whose body remained unidentified for 46 years.\n\nIncluding murder victims and those who died via natural causes or otherwise, approximately 40,000 decedents remain unidentified in the United States.\n\nTuscaloosa County Jane Doe is a white female aged between 34 and 38 whose body was found in Slaughter Creek, near the Sipsey River in Romulus, Tuscaloosa County on April 18, 1982. She had been beaten, strangled and sexually assaulted.\n\nShe was 5 feet 4 inches tall, weighed approximately 110 to 115 pounds, had a ruddy complexion (indicating that she regularly engaged in outdoor activity), wore an upper partial denture and had dark-brown, shoulder-length hair and brown eyes. She also had a visible scar beneath her right eyebrow. This decedent wore tennis shoes, knitted blue pants, a long-sleeved blue shirt, and white undergarments.\n\nIt is possible that she was fishing at the area and was killed at the scene, as disturbances upon the earth were discovered at the location of her discovery. Moreover, she may have given birth to at least one child in her lifetime, and her body showed evidence of her having performed manual labor. Her remains were exhumed in 2013 both for additional examination and to obtain a DNA sample.\n\nThe skull of a girl of African heritage was discovered on January 28, 2012 in Opelika, Alabama. Several other bones of this decedent were also subsequently recovered. The victim was concealed in the woods near a trailer park. Examiners concluded that she was between four and seven years old at the time of her death and had black hair. She is also presumed to have been \"abused and malnourished\" while alive and her death is presumed to be murder. Her height, weight and eye color could not be determined because of the advanced state of decomposition of her remains. The girl had likely died between 2011 and 2012. The victim has since been forensically reconstructed by the FBI Victims Identification Project and currently has her DNA being processed to compare to potential matches.\n\nIn 2016, the facial features of Opelika Jane Doe were forensically reconstructed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children. Subsequently, the photographs of an unidentified child seen at a vacation bible school in 2011 were linked with her. The child seen alive appeared to be neglected and could have suffered abuse, as she had visual damage to one of her eyes.\nOn August 20, 1979, the skeletal remains of a man were discovered in Tok, Alaska. The decedent had apparently hitchhiked to Alaska in 1978 with another man and was then murdered by his companion. He was 6 feet tall, weighed approximately 185 pounds, and was less than 40 years old when he was murdered. The man's left eye was missing, and he wore a distinctive leather eye patch, which may play a crucial role in his future identification. Another feature pertaining to his identity is that he had long brown hair worn with a headband.\n\nThe likeness of One Eyed Jack was created by police sketch artist Carl Koppelman. The image is based on only the cranium, as the victim's lower jaw was not recovered.\n\nEklutna Annie is a young white female (with possible Native American heritage) whose body was discovered on July 21, 1980, in Eklutna, Anchorage, Alaska. This decedent is believed to have been in her late teens or early twenties at the time of her murder.\n\nSerial killer Robert Hansen confessed to murdering this woman, claiming she was either a prostitute or a dancer whom he stabbed in the back as she attempted to escape from his vehicle in late 1979.\n\nThe remains of a woman were found on April 25, 1984, near Horseshoe Lake in Palmer, Alaska. She had been stabbed and shot. Like Eklutna Annie, she is believed to have been a victim of serial killer Robert Hansen, who led police to her body.\n\nHorseshoe Harriet was between 5 feet 2 inches and 5 feet 6 inches tall. She was most likely between the ages of 19 and 20 when she was murdered. Along with her remains were found a scarf, coat, brassiere, tennis shoes, a sweater, jeans, socks, and leg warmers. Other items found were cigarettes, a comb, a compact, and condoms. Her remains were exhumed in 2014 for additional forensic examination.\n\nThe skeletonized remains of a girl, nicknamed \"Little Miss X,\" were found on a desolate road 10 miles southeast of the Grand Canyon in Coconino County, Arizona on October 31, 1958. Although no cause of death could be determined, the case has always been considered to be a homicide.\n\nThe girl was a white American with possible Hispanic or Latino ancestry, and she is estimated to have been between 11 and 14 years old at the time of her death. She was between and () in height. It was determined that she had died 9 to 14 months before her bones were found.\n\nThe victim had received good dental care during her life, having seven fillings in four of her teeth. Her hair had been dyed a light brown but was naturally dark brown in color. Numerous personal items belonging to the victim were found at the crime scene: a 10-carat gold chain, a small jar of Pond's cold cream, a white nylon comb, a small white powder puff with traces of sun-tan colored powder, and a small, blue, plastic nail file case with the indentation of the letter \"P\" and a hand-printed capital \"R\" next to it.\n\nNo clothing was found upon the remains. However, a white wool cardigan short-sleeved sweater, a white cotton size 34C bra, and brown Capri pants with a green and red plaid design were found at the scene. Investigators deduced that the victim had been stripped naked prior to, or shortly after, being killed. A pair of white panties was also found, although they appeared to be too large for the victim.\n\nHer body was exhumed in 1962 for further examination; however, as a result of poor record keeping, no records exist to indicate where Little Miss X was reburied. The National Center for Missing and Exploited Children has since released a facial reconstruction image of her.\n\nThe body of a white female, aged between 15 and 24, was discovered under a cedar tree in Williams, Coconino County, on February 14, 1982. She was discovered approximately 25 feet from Westbound Interstate 40.\n\nHer death had occurred on or around February 1, and the area of her discovery area was a place where trucks were known to have regularly pulled over to cool their brakes. Because these remains were located on Valentine's Day, the victim was nicknamed \"Valentine Sally.\"\n\nValentine Sally was approximately five feet five inches in height and weighed 120 pounds; she had blue eyes and strawberry blond hair which was straight and approximately ten inches in length. Distinctive marks upon her body were scars upon her right thigh and her left foot. Furthermore, the decedent appeared to have incomplete root canal surgery upon one of her molars, which may have been related to a notably discomforting infection.This surgery had been performed approximately one week prior to her murder. She also wore an earring in her left ear. It is unknown if her right ear was also pierced, as her right ear was not recovered. Due to decomposition and the activity of scavenging animals, her fingerprints could not be obtained (although her DNA and dental charts were).\n\nThe victim had been murdered by either suffocation or strangulation and wore \"Seasons\" brand jeans with a handkerchief in one pocket. A distinctive white sweater with thin red stripes and a bra were also found near her remains, which may have also belonged to the victim.\n\nIt is possible Valentine Sally had been seen by eyewitnesses at a truck stop in Ash Fork, Arizona in early February, as a waitress at a truck stop named Patty Wilkins recalled a young girl matching her description and aged 16 or 17 who had asked her for aspirin because of a tooth ache. This girl did not want any food. She was in the company of an older male—possibly a father or uncle—who had expressed concern over her teeth. Wilkins believed the girl was with a relative as normally, had a runaway entered the premises, she would call the sheriff. The pair had entered the premises at 3 a.m. and left approximately one hour later.\n\nThe partially buried body of a female child was discovered by a schoolteacher in Congress, Arizona on July 31, 1960. Investigators determined via evident disturbances in the sand close to the actual burial site that whomever had buried the child had initially made several attempts to dig a deeper grave to conceal her remains.\n\nA forensic pathologist would determine that the body was that of a white girl between the ages of five and seven old at the time of her death, with her most likely age being between three and six years old. The girl's toenails and fingernails were painted a bright red, and her hair was dyed auburn.\n\nA local radio host gave the decedent the name \"Little Miss Nobody.\" He would also initiate a local campaign to raise funds for the child's burial. More than 70 people attended the subsequent service. Although this child's DNA has been uploaded to national databases of missing persons, she has never been identified.\n\nA woman estimated to be anywhere between 18 and 30 years of age was found deceased on July 10, 1991 in El Dorado, Arkansas in Room 121 of the Whitehall Motel. The decedent is known to have used multiple names, including Cheryl Ann Wick (which she used from a stolen identification card), Kelly Carr/Karr, Shannon Wiley, and Mercedes. She was known to have lived in various states prior to her death, including Texas, where she apparently worked as a sex worker. Other reports explain she had been arrested in the past, using several of her aliases and had possibly been involved in a bank robbery on the East Coast. She had been shot to death by her boyfriend who was convicted of her murder, although the woman remains unidentified.\n\nThe decomposed remains of a man were discovered in the Beaver Lake in Rogers, Benton County, Arkansas on October 16, 1996. His body was concealed in a sleeping bag which had floated to the surface, possibly after breaking loose from whatever tethers may have been weighing his body beneath water. He was a white male aged between 30 and 60 years old, standing at five feet nine inches to five feet eleven inches tall, with a case of myositis ossificans on one of his arms. He may have been subjected to heavy labor in life, possibly being a logger or a weight lifter. His teeth had been stained, perhaps from coffee or tobacco use. He had at least one tooth removed along with having one filling; his front teeth showed a large amount of wear. He had suffered a blow to the forehead with a blunt instrument, and had died as early as 1995. Along with the sleeping bag, two pillows were found that belonged to a medical center and the deteriorated remnants of boxer shorts and one sock were worn by the decedent.\n\nThe skeleton of a black woman between 18 and 40 years of age was discovered in Little Rock, Pulaski County, Arkansas on August 18, 2002. She had been shot in the head and was hidden underneath a pile of insulation. She wore several articles of clothing, some which were designed for men. Several pennies and a dollar bill were found in the pockets of her shirt and windbreaker pants. Her nose had been broken and her septum was reportedly slanted to the left side. Multiple ribs had previously healed from fractures.\n\nThe burned body of a woman was found on September 30, 1952 in a forest near Highway 119 in Blackhawk, Gilpin County, Colorado. The victim had been placed under a log that was set afire after being doused with an accelerant approximately 20 to 30 days before her remains were found. The victim was believed to be aged between 25 and 30 years old at the time of her murder (born between 1922 and 1927), although she may have been as young as 17. Her hair is believed to have been dark in color, which was found attached to the skull and she was approximately five feet seven inches tall. Because of the condition of her body, her weight and race are unknown, as her remains had deteriorated to the point that they weighed 14 pounds. One of the legs was severed from the body, which may have been caused due to animal activity. The victim had an overbite, which has been described as fairly noticeable. Jewelry found at the scene included a necklace with rhinestones and three earrings. Burned clothing was also found; a light blue sequin top, jeans and a shoe were all recovered, but were fragmented. A lipstick container, an electric razor, a purse, and a man's ring were also at the scene. She was believed to have been hit on the head with a bloody stick nearby before being burned, although it is not known if she was killed after the blow. The stick and one of the earrings were later found by a woman who visited the scene after hearing about the case.\n\nThe individual who discovered these remains, Charles Damoth, was initially believed by authorities to be the killer, although his daughter believes otherwise. At least five others were ruled out as possible perpetrators. Damoth admitted to finding the body days before reporting the killing, which some have found suspicious. He claimed he also had cut wood in the area, including the log found on her body. One person also stated they had seen Damoth's truck near the scene around the time the victim was estimated to have died. Polygraph tests used on the suspect never revealed additional evidence. This murder is also referred to as the \"Pyre Case,\" and the victim has also been nicknamed as \"Maria.\"\n\nThe skeleton of a male was found on November 3, 1986, a year or less after his death. This five feet five inches in height, 35 to 40-year-old male had been shot and his body also revealed evidence of his having received blunt-force trauma to his face. The remains were located in a field in El Paso County, Colorado. He had brown hair and was wearing a blue-green sweatshirt along with a pair of jeans.\n\nApproximately two to three days after her death, the body of a female aged between 13 and 25 years old (most likely under 20 years of age) was found in Douglas County, Colorado on June 15, 1993. Although she had recently expired, these remains were in an advanced state of decomposition and largely unrecognizable, which made her eye color impossible to distinguish. It is believed that this decedent had died from blunt-force trauma before her body was abandoned in a campsite in the Rainbow Falls Campground (located in the San Isabel National Forest). Her shoulder-length hair—possibly dyed—was blond or light brown in color. She wore a black Harley Davidson shirt and several pieces of jewelry: a yellow metal ring on her pinky finger; a yellow metal necklace with a black crystal pendant; and a necklace depicting hands clasping a tiger eye crystal ball. Her ears were also pierced, her left contained a stud with a clear stone. Her fingernails had been either cut or chewed very short. She was stocky with large breasts and hips. The girl's body was partially clothed but she had not been raped, although she could still have been molested. It is possible that she may have come to Colorado to a Vietnam Vets motorcycle club convention or may have been a runaway teenager from Louisiana.\n\nRainbow Falls Doe was between five feet six to five feet eight inches in height, and weighed 140 pounds, as she was of a stocky build. The victim had had her spleen removed in life, which left a visible vertical scar upon her abdomen. She had very healthy teeth. Two wisdom teeth were removed and two teeth were impacted. There is evidence that at some stage in her life she was very well cared for. She was in good health.\nShe is buried at Cedar Hill Cemetery in Castle Rock, Colorado.\n\nThe body of a male was discovered on October 12, 2002 in Saguache, Saguache County, Colorado. He had been shot in the head twice at a minimal distance and left in a ravine. He had been wrapped in a handmade, antique quilt, and wrapped again in black plastic secured with duct tape. He is believed to have been asleep when killed. The victim was six feet five inches tall and was estimated to weigh between 235 and 240 pounds. Although he was toothless, no dentures were found at the scene of his discovery. He was estimated to have been between the ages of 30 and 40. He wore a motorcycle jacket with the words \"Fort Washington, Maryland\" and black shorts. It is possible that he was attending a motorcycle-related gathering at the time of his death.\n\nOn August 9, 1923 the badly decomposed remains of an unknown male were found on Milford Townpike in West Haven near the New Haven County Home. This John Doe was estimated to be approximately 27 years old, had brown hair and stood at 5 feet 7 inches. He weighed approximately 150 pounds. The decedent wore a brown striped suit and under one arm had a chauffeur's cap. He had a cloth gag in his mouth and there appeared to be two bullet wounds in his chest, but he was apparently killed by strangulation. This individual was possibly killed by serial killer Carl Panzram. He was one of the few victims of Panzram that can be confirmed. It is alleged that the victim may have been approximately 16 years old and either the nephew or son of a New York Policeman.\nOn August 16, 1975, the body of a white female between 18 and 28 years of age was discovered in East Haven, New Haven County, Connecticut. The victim was bound and gagged, nude, and floating in a drainage ditch behind a building. This woman was killed by strangulation at least five days prior to her discovery, although her face was recognizable. Antenna wires were visible around her neck, waist and legs and her body was wrapped in a tarp, which had been secured with an electrical cord. It is believed that the decedent was not murdered at the location where her body was discovered. The victim was around five feet six inches in height and weighed approximately 125 pounds. She had dark brown hair and either hazel or brown eyes. She may have undergone rhinoplasty (which is a cosmetic surgery to reshape a person's nose). This may be a contributing factor for this woman remaining unidentified, as those who knew her in life before this possible surgery would be less likely to recognize the constructed facial composite released to the public.\n\nThis decedent may also have worn braces at one point in her life and had both ears pierced; she wore silver-colored earrings. No evidence of her murderer was left behind, save for white spots of paint discovered upon the tarp used to conceal her body. Her murder could possibly be linked to that of a man who was murdered and disposed of in a similar manner, as well as serial killings in the area. She is buried in an unmarked grave in the State Street Cemetery in Hamden, Connecticut.\n\nA possible victim of serial killer Henry Lee Lucas was found in a field in Townsend, New Castle County, Delaware on June 27, 1977. Examination of the bones concluded that she was a middle aged woman, the mother of approximately two children and had various dental problems, as well as a spinal condition, at the age of thirty-three to sixty-three. Her dental problems may have been due to smoking, as a large amount of tar was found in her mouth, which also had a removable plate and many fillings. Despite the various types of dental work, the quality of the procedures was of fairly low quality. One of the bones of one of her right fingers was broken, possibly from defending herself from the killer. She may have been native to Michigan, which has led investigators to believe that Lucas had been involved, as he had given statements in prison describing a similar crime scene as well as claiming he had murdered a Michigan woman in the same area.\nThe woman's DNA profile was analyzed by the Parabon NanoLabs in 2018. Traits such as blue eyes, a fair complexion and Northern European ancestry were suggested by their examination. A computer generated image was also produced, depicting an approximation of the woman at age 48.\n\nThe skeleton of a woman aged between 20 and 35 (although this decedent may have been up to 45 years in age) was found on November 25, 1993 in Odessa, New Castle County, Delaware. The body had been left in the William J. Baxter Memorial Park, approximately three months before it was found. The woman had very healthy teeth that showed no signs of staining, although there was evidence of some crowding at the back of her mouth.\n\nThis decedent was approximately five feet one to five feet two inches tall, but because of the state of the remains, the weight was not possible to estimate. Her hair was a dark brown. After examining the pelvis, it was concluded that she may have given birth at one time. The cause of her death was not apparent, but is believed to have been foul play. Most of the bones from the digits of her hands and feet were not found, along with two other types of bones. No clothing was found at the site and thirteen people have been excluded as possibly identities of the victim.\n\nOn July 20, 1997, the skeleton of a brown-haired woman was found by a hiker in an area hidden by trees in Camden, Kent County, Delaware, near the border of Maryland. It is believed that the woman had been killed by blows to the head, as damage to her skull suggested. She was of middle age, between forty and fifty-five, although she may have been up to sixty at the time of the murder. The victim was white, between five feet three to five feet eight inches tall and weighed approximately 120 pounds. The victim had likely broken her wrist at one point during her life, which had happened long before she died. Other bones also showed evidence of previous injury and her knees also indicated she could have suffered from arthritis. She wore a denture on the top of her mouth; one of the eyeteeth were missing. The victim was found wearing nothing but a blue hair clip and a watch. Due to injuries that occurred before death, the way the woman walked may have been affected by damage to the bones in one of the legs. Her body was at the scene for three months to two years.\n\nOn October 17, 1994, a Hispanic man's body was found in New Castle County, Delaware, near a wooded area next to a road. The cause of his death was not apparent, but because his body was concealed in a sheet, authorities presume he was murdered. The body was discovered by a truck driver who noticed a screw and a glove on the side of the road and then inspected a suspicious bundle nearby. He was 138 pounds and five feet five inches tall at the estimated age range of twenty-five to thirty-five years of age.\n\nThe man was described as being \"well groomed\" and had neat dark hair and a mustache and manicured nails and healthy teeth. He had a large amount of body hair, which was shaved under the arms and in the pubic region. It is believed that he was of Central-American descent. He wore a grayish shirt, large dark shorts underneath khakis with a brown belt, white socks, underwear and no shoes. He carried fifteen single dollars along with a nickel, which were created across the United States.\n\nOn January 13, 1988 in Atlanta, Fulton County, Georgia, a woman between thirty and forty was discovered alive, after suffering an injury to the head, which was believed to have been committed by another person within hours of her discovery. She lived for five additional days until she died at a local hospital. She had the word \"Jesus'\" tattooed to her right hand. She was between five feet and five feet two inches and weighed 105 pounds. The victim had strawberry blond hair that was nearly one foot long and green eyes. Three scars were found on her abdomen, possibly from surgery and another was found on her right arm. She had received some dental care, as gold crowns were found on two of her molars. The woman wore a brown coat, thermal underwear, panties, a gray vest, jeans, pajamas and tennis shoes. Along with these, she wore a watch.\n\nA teenage female of Asian or mixed Caucasian and Asian descent was discovered in a dumpster on February 14, 1988 in Millen, Jenkins County, Georgia. The body was concealed by plastic, which was then duct taped and placed inside of a duffel bag. The victim had died of asphyxiation, and her body was not discovered until between four and seven days after her death.\n\nExaminers concluded the decedent was between five feet five and five feet six inches in height; she weighed between 135 and 140 pounds and had long brown hair. In addition to having visibly crooked teeth, she had her left wisdom tooth missing, although all her teeth were apparently well-cared for. In addition, one of her molars had been removed shortly before she was murdered.\n\nThe age range of the Jenkins County Jane Doe at the time of her death is determined to have been between 16 and 25. Along with her body, some bedding material was also found.\n\nThe Rising Fawn Jane Doe is the name given to a Caucasian girl (also known as Pamela Doe) between sixteen and twenty-five was discovered in Rising Fawn, Dade County, Georgia, on December 16, 1988, near the state border with Alabama. The victim was around five feet seven inches, weighing between 120 and 125 pounds. Her hair was reddish with frosted ends, and she had dark eyes. She had been both strangled and sexually abused. The clothing the victim wore included a large dark blue pullover shirt, jeans and black shoes. She wore two pieces of jewelry, a gold necklace and a ring with gold heart-shaped design on her left hand. She may have been a runaway or a hitchhiker.\n\nThe body of a white male was discovered in the Snake River, near Lewiston, Nez Perce County, Idaho on July 26, 1982, after his death, which was two to three weeks prior. The Doe Network gives a longer estimated time of death to have been as early as January 1982. He was killed by two gunshots from a .38 caliber Smith & Wesson gun, which was not built since 1967. The wounds were to both the neck and shoulder of the man, who was between eighteen and twenty, although the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System reports that his age was not possible to estimate, increasing his age range to ninety-nine years old. The Nez Perce County sheriff department also gives conflicting information, describing him to be as young as thirteen to twenty. Despite that he may have been deceased for seven months, a scar was found on one of his ankles. However, no tattoos, jewelry or distinct birthmarks could be found. He was believed to be white, but may have been Hispanic, as his hair, which was several inches long, was black or red. His height and weight were estimated to be five feet eleven inches and 145 to 160 pounds, respectively. No dental care was observable in his mouth, as his teeth had been excellently cared for with no cavities. The young man wore jeans, blue, red and white striped swimwear in an American flag design and a white sock with the same colors. His case was recently reopened by police, in 2012.\n\nSix young males out of 33 known victims who were murdered between 1972 and 1978 by serial killer John Wayne Gacy remain unidentified. Their skeletonized bodies were discovered buried upon Gacy's property between December 26, 1978, and March 9, 1979. Due to the advanced state of decomposition, in most instances, the causes of death of the victims could not be discovered (although the vast majority of Gacy's victims were killed by strangulation or asphyxiation).\n\nFour of these victims are estimated to have been aged between 14 and 24 years old, whereas two victims are estimated to have been aged between 22 and 32. All of these decedents were Caucasian, and at least four of these victims were murdered in 1976 or 1977, whereas two victims may have been murdered between 1972 and 1975.\nOn January 27, 1993, the severed head of a woman, aged thirty to fifty was discovered in the Wayne Fitzgerrell State Park in Ina, Jefferson County, Illinois. The woman's head may have been thrown from a vehicle, as her head was discovered hanging in brush, close to a road. Because no other parts of her body were found, the height and weight were impossible to determine. Examination of the skull suggested she suffered from wry neck syndrome, which would have caused her head to be in an awkward position when she was alive. This deformity may have been caused from previous trauma, possibly from a car accident. Her hair was a reddish-brown color.\n\nOn Christmas Day, 1977, the body of a black male was found in a culvert in Floyd County, Indiana. He was shot in the head and was believed to have died a day before his discovery. The man was estimated to be between 18 and 25 years old and was six feet tall, with a weight of 155 to 175 pounds. The victim wore a knit cap, a jacket with the letters \"E\" and \"D\" on the front pocket, embroidered with red string. He also wore a black shirt, a blue sweatshirt, bluish pants and white tennis shoes. Several of his teeth were also missing. The possibility of his identification is slim, as his DNA, fingerprints, and complete dental records were never taken.\n\nTwo young men of different races were found on October 18, 1983 in Lake Village, Newton County, Indiana. Both decedents are confirmed victims of serial killer Larry Eyler.\n\nA man in his early twenties was discovered in Jasper County, Indiana. He had long red hair with a slight build. He carried a lighter with an undisclosed female name written on it and was wearing jeans and a gray sweatshirt. Like the Newton County John Does, he was found in October 1983. Serial killer Larry Eyler had confessed before his death in 1994 to killing the Jasper County man as well as four men in Newton County, two of them unidentified. Money was raised to bury the remains of this man in a formal, marked grave. The victim was found with three others, of whom only two were identified.\n\nA woman's body was found in a creek off of Interstate 70 in Salina, Saline County, Kansas on January 25, 1986. The victim appeared to have been beaten and then thrown over a bridge where she subsequently died of drowning approximately two days before her body was found. The victim, nicknamed as \"Miss Molly,\" was estimated to be between twenty and thirty-five when she died, at a height of five feet five and a weight of 125 pounds. The female wore clothing that originated from France: a bra, bikini underwear, stockings and purple sweatpants. These were sold in large U.S. cities or outside of the country. Other items, such as a nylon bag and a pillow case were found near the body, but it is unknown if they were owned by Miss Molly.\n\nThis decedent had possibly carried a child before her death, as she had stretch marks on her stomach. Her hair was brown with blond highlights, and she had gray or blue eyes and several visible scars upon her jaw. She had also had an appendectomy, had pierced ears, and wore false fingernails that were painted red. Her teeth showed signs of some extractions and braces, some of which had taken place recently.\n\nOn September 21, 1987, the body of a woman was found in Marion County, Kansas. She had been bound at the hands and ankles, indicating she died from foul play. The victim was between sixteen and ninety-nine, but most likely between twenty and thirty years old. Her remains were located behind hay bales and hedges at the side of a road and may have been there for months. A tattoo of a cross was located on her shoulder, although most of her body was skeletonized. She was between five feet six inches to five feet eight inches tall and had brown, four-inch long hair. She was found with healed fractures on her ribs, indicating she had been in some sort of accident months before she died.\n\nOn Christmas Eve, 1992 the body of a female infant of possibly mixed race was found in a trash bag in the employee parking lot of Oxmoor Center on Shelbyville Road. The mother was never found. A member of the Mall's security team posthumously adopted the baby naming her \"Mary Eve\" because she was found on Christmas Eve.\n\nOn August 8, 1989, a blue suitcase containing the skeleton of a toddler was discovered near the Barren River Lake, Glasgow, Barren County, Kentucky. The victim was estimated to have been between two and three years old and its sex was not possible to determine, though some believe that the child was female. The victim, who may have been biracial, had been deceased for one to six months and the case was ruled as a homicide. After it was made public that the body was found, a person who was apparently an attorney requested to police that their client, a woman, would not be charged if she submitted information that she knew about the child. After three calls, the person was never heard from again.\n\nThe skeletal remains of a female were found on July 2, 1995 in Nancy, Pulaski County, Kentucky. The woman had been deceased for one to five years and it was determined that her neck had been cut and she had also broken one rib, likely due to the attack that ended her life. Originally, the skull was accidentally discovered and eventually police recovered the remaining parts of the victim's body, including straight brown hair and some clothing. Examination indicated she was a white female between twenty-four and forty-five and most likely suffered from a condition impairing the synovial joints in her wrists. The victim was between five feet one and five feet three inches tall at an indeterminable weight. She was found with a spandex top, a denim skirt and white shoes.\n\nOn June 19, 1986, the body of a white female aged between 20 and 30 was found in Slidell, Saint Tammany Parish, Louisiana, in Lake Pontchartrain. She had been murdered around one to two days prior to her discovery, and her body had already begun to decompose. The cause of her death was ruled to be a combination of asphyxiation and stabbing, as wounds were visible on her face. Her hair was either a light brown or red, which was shoulder length. She also had freckles and had received breast implants. It is believed this decedent had been married, as her left ring finger showed that a ring had been worn at one time, but had been recently removed, likely by her killer. She was also three months pregnant.\n\nThe decedent was of a petite stature, standing at five feet two to four inches, and weighed an estimated 126 pounds. Her body was nude with a plastic bag that had been placed over her head and a weight was tied to her neck to ensure her remains would not surface.\n\nAfter her autopsy, examiners concluded that the victim may have been involved in an automobile accident prior to her murder, as evidence on her hips showed signs of healed fractures. It was also possible that a rhinoplasty was performed on her nose, which may have been due to the same reason. Scars were also found upon her abdomen, her knee and one wrist. Her teeth were excellently cared for, although some were possibly congenitally missing and all of her wisdom teeth had been removed.\n\nThe body of a man of African heritage, 25 to 40 years old, was found on January 4, 1993 in Bancroft, Beauregard Parish, Louisiana. Examiners believe he had been killed within three to four weeks before, as the state of decomposition was severe in some areas of the body, resulting in partial skeletonization. His remains were disposed of in the woods, located in proximity to Highway 389. He wore tan shoes, blue jeans, had short hair and very healthy teeth and had broken his nose once in his life. He had been shot twice in the head.\n\nThe partially dismembered body of a White and Middle Eastern male aged 65 or older was discovered in St. Tammany Parish, Louisiana on July 29, 2016. The victim had died about three days before and was dumped at the scene following his murder. His body was in an advanced stage of decomposition. A scar, possibly from an open heart surgery was present on his chest. His height was estimated to be about 5'10. His arms and one leg were removed, possibly to conceal unique tattoos or marks on his body. Investigators were unsure of certain traits the man had until DNA phenotyping was performed by the Parabon NanoLabs. The results indicated he had brown or hazel eyes, dark brown hair and a fair complexion. The victim or the individuals responsible for his death may have links to the Mississippi Gulf Coast and the victim himself may have been a transient.\nThe DNA Doe Project is currently analyzing his DNA to match with potential relatives.\n\nThe body of a full-term baby girl with an attached umbilical cord was found December 7, 1985, in Frenchville, Maine. Her body was found by a dog, which then brought it to its owners. The infant had died of exposure within a half hour of her birth, due to extremely cold temperatures. She had been abandoned in a gravel pit. Examiners determined that the dog had not caused injury to the baby.\n\nAt the location, several bloody footprints were found, believed to have been left there by the infant's mother. Investigators suspect the baby's mother may be Canadian.\n\nOn August 24, 1982, the skeletonized remains of a young woman were discovered concealed inside a footlocker in Frederick, Maryland by two hikers. The decedent is estimated to have died between 1972 and 1982, with pathologists determining she had most likely died at least three years prior to the discovery of her body. Her age is estimated to have been anywhere between 17 and 45 years old, although the most likely age range of this decedent is between 18 and 25 years old. She had medium length, brown or reddish brown hair and is estimated to have stood between five feet two inches and five feet six inches in height.\n\nEvidence such as spondylolysis upon her bones indicates that she may have been a gymnast or dance performer in life. She had also received extensive dental work on her teeth. Between the 1980s and 2012, three composites were created. Many leads have surfaced, including ten missing persons that have been ruled out in the case.\n\nConstruction workers discovered the skeletalized body of a young male on April 23, 1985 in Glen Burnie, Anne Arundel County. The body, discovered concealed inside a metal trash bin, was that of a white male aged between 16- and 25-years-old who was between five feet eight and five feet eleven inches in height. He likely weighed between 155 and 162 pounds and was of a slim build and had light brown hair. Discovered with the decedent were a comb, keys, nail clippers, coins and three sheets of paper. He wore a wool sweater, which was blue and black, beige slacks and black, laced leather shoes. He may have been murdered as long ago as 1970 before his remains were found. One of his hands was not found at the scene.\n\nThe body of an Asian male, aged between 20 and 30, was located on January 9, 1987 in Abingdon, Harford County. He was murdered just days prior to the discovery of his body and had been killed by a gunshot wound to the chest. His body was abandoned at the side of a highway and was bound, wrapped in plastic and then covered with a sheet. He was around five feet five to five feet seven inches in height and weighed approximately 134 pounds. The man had several scars on his face, one near his upper lip and four on the top of his head, which had healed. The victim had black, straight hair and brown eyes. He wore a pair of reddish and white nylon swim trunks that had a blue stripe and brown lining.\n\nBy studying the teeth of the decedent (which displated no signs of dental care) it is presumed that he had a habit of using tobacco products. His case has been published in Asian media, which has ultimately been unsuccessful to develop any more clues to his identity or killer.\n\nThe remains of a female aged between 16 and 25, known as Maryland's Unknown Child, was discovered on July 31, 1991 in Frederick County, Maryland, near a truck stop. The remains were badly decomposed to the point where the cause of death was not able to be determined. She was located underneath an overpass, which suggests being disposed of after a murder. The victim was between five feet and five feet two inches tall, weighing 110-120 pounds. The hair was described to be dark and wavy and a tooth protruded from her upper set of teeth. A tank top and several pieces of jewelry were found on her arms, hands, neck and ankle. A silver and gold colored wristwatch was also worn by the girl.\n\nFour forensic facial reconstructions of the decedent have since been created; each varying strongly from the others. It was reported that a man convicted of the murder of a woman native to Ohio in Tennessee, who was a trucker, may have been involved. At his house, authorities discovered shoes and underwear, two types of clothing that the Frederick County Jane Doe was not wearing.\n\nThe body of a female of African heritage was located in a creek in Clinton, Prince George's County, on March 25, 2000. The victim was between 13 and 35 years old at the time of her death, with her most likely age range being between 15 and 30. She is estimated to have been murdered in 1999 or the year of the discovery of her body.\n\nThe decedent had been beaten to death, and may have been a victim of a sexual crime, as no clothing below her waist was present upon her body. The female had brown eyes and black hair accompanied with hair extensions which were approximately a foot long. She wore clothing including a whitish undershirt and a similarly-colored T-shirt from a 1995 Special Olympics event held in Connecticut, a white sports bra, a pullover shirt with the phrase \"Beefy=T\" written on the tag, and a denim jacket. She also wore a Tweety Bird watch and had painted her fingernails purple. Her initials could possibly have been \"C.S.,\" as these initials were found written on the tag of one of her shirts. Although her lower jaw was not found, she did not appear to have received any dental care in life.\n\nOn January 30, 2007, the body of a young man of African heritage was located in Seat Pleasant, Prince George's County, Maryland. His hair was cut short and he was five feet ten inches tall and weighed 160 pounds. He wore several layers of clothing: a red sweatshirt with the words \"Washington DC\" in blue, a dark thermal shirt, a long-sleeved shirt with several colors, a red stocking-style hat, black Air Jordan tennis shoes, a scarf, gloves and two pairs of jeans. He had his left ear pierced and scars were found on his knees and one was found on his abdomen. He had been beaten to death only hours prior to his discovery and was between seventeen and twenty-seven years old.\n\nAn unidentified woman whose body was discovered on July 26, 1974 in the Race Point Dunes, Provincetown, Massachusetts. She had been murdered by extensive blunt force trauma to the head, and her killer had made several attempts to prevent her body from being identified. Although Hadden Clark has confessed to her murder, many believe this confession to have been false.\n\nFormer FBI's Top Ten Most Wanted organized crime boss Whitey Bulger may have a connection to the case.\n\nIn New Bedford, Bristol County, Massachusetts, the body of a woman aged between 30 and 45 years old was recovered from the Popes Island marina on October 30, 1996. The victim had been placed inside two garbage bags and then wrapped in a white and teal-colored blanket. She had suffered a blow to the head and was shot twelve times. By examining the condition of her body, she had been deceased for less than two days and her body had been in the water for less than a day.\n\nThe decedent was five feet two inches tall and approximately 127 pounds. The decedent had naturally light brown hair (which was dyed strawberry blond) and had brown eyes. She wore a yellow shirt, a white pullover with rectangular shapes and high heeled boots. She wore a gold ring with an emerald stone which experts say comes from Belarus, a part of the old Soviet Union. She had also received dental work that is believed to have been performed outside of the country. However, one instance of root canal surgery had been performed inside the United States. The woman did not shave beneath her arms or shave her legs, also indicating she was likely European.\n\nBecause of the lack of identification and fingerprint matches, the woman may entered the United States without documentation.\n\nOn June 4, 2014, the torso of a man of African heritage was found on a beach in Sandwich, Barnstable County, Massachusetts with his head and all four limbs missing. It is believed that the man was around six feet tall and weighed between 220 and 230 pounds. His body was found on the beach wrapped in a blue tarp and attached to a moving dolly. A surgical scar was also present, but it was unrelated to the murder. Another identifying feature was a T-shirt for a Rhode Island pipe distribution company, although the quantity of the shirts handed out each year prevented easy identification.\n\nThe severed head of an adult white female was discovered on the shore of Bone Lake In Scandia, Washington County, Minnesota on June 12, 1993. Soon after the head was discovered, a left foot was found in St. Paul, Minnesota, which was twenty miles away. Medical examiners believe that the foot had belonged to the same woman. The foot itself had fragments of red nail polish. Both cuts made to sever her head and foot had been made cleanly, possibly due to the killer having experience with butchering or hunting. Her remains may have been disposed of in the Mississippi River, as both locations where the parts were found are linked to the river.\n\nThe woman had short, dark hair, which may have been spiked when she was alive and she also had a short ponytail at the back of her head. The victim had brown eyes and likely wore earrings, as both of her ears were pierced three times. The age of this decedent has been disputed, with some describing her to be as young as twenty; others saying she may have been as old as sixty-five.\n\nAn infant or toddler found floating in a river in Moss Point, Mississippi in December 1982. She had been partially smothered, then thrown from a bridge into the Escatawpa River by an individual suspected to be her mother. This child had then died of drowning.\n\nDesoto County Jane Doe is a woman whose body was discovered alongside U.S. Route 78 on February 24, 1985 in Olive Branch, DeSoto County. She is estimated to have been between 20 and 35 at the time of her death and was wearing only a pinkish-orange pullover along with jeans at the time of her discovery. Her shoes were missing, possibly having been retained by her killer. The decedent had unique tattoos of the letters \"T.H.C.\" and \"R.E.J.\" (or possibly \"R.E.T.\") on her ankles, and had reddish or strawberry-blond hair. Her eyes have been stated to be gray or brown by various sources. The victim was killed by ligature strangulation and had possibly been subjected to a sexual assault.\n\nThis decedent is known to have both smoked frequently and to have regularly bitten her nails in life; habits that may assist in leading to her identification. The victim also had a surgical scar on her left arm and other scars on her hand. The woman wore three earrings in each ear and was approximately five feet three inches in height andweiged 110 pounds.\n\nA \"middle aged\" man's body was found wrapped in carpeting and a blanket along a road in Pascagoula, Jackson County, Mississippi on June 18, 2001. He was of white or Hispanic ethnicity and was estimated to be five feet five to five feet seven inches in height and weighed about 250 pounds. He had brown hair that was cut very short and had some tattoos, including the name \"John\" upon his chest. He also had an elaborate tattoo of a bird upon his shoulder and the letter \"E\" or \"F\" upon the inside of his left arm. The victim also had distinctive scars. One was a crescent shape above his left eye, another on his forehead, on the side of his nose and a possible gunshot scar on one of the wrists.\n\nHe was clothed in a white T-shirt, jogging shorts and pants and was murdered about two days before the discovery. The murder of the victim has been solved, as a subject was apprehended in 2004. However, the victim remains unidentified, although he may have been native to Texas.\n\nThe body of a white girl aged two to three years was discovered inside a suitcase that had been thrown into Lake Alton in West Alton, Missouri, in St. Charles County on February 1, 1968. This decedent is also known Jane Doe West Alton.\n\nThe child's remains were recovered by two fishermen who had hooked their line on the suitcase, which had been wrapped in blue clothesline and weighted with two 10-pound barbells found inside the suitcase.\n\nDistinctive features noted upon her remains were an abnormally large tooth and a scar above one of her eyes. She had long, blond hair, although due to decomposition, her eye color could not be determined. She was approximately 2 feet 8 inches tall and weighed between 35 and 40 pounds. The sole item of clothing upon her remains was a pair of white underwear.\n\nThe child had been dead for up to one month before her body was discovered. She was identified as a homicide victim, although authorities declined to reveal the precise method used to kill her. She was laid to rest on February 7 in an unmarked grave in the children's section of Oak Grove Cemetery.\n\nAfter an image of the child was constructed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in September 2015, the body was exhumed on September 24 from her unmarked grave in an effort to obtain a DNA sample. Investigators later announced that the DNA testing conducted upon her remains was unsuccessful. Nonetheless, the exhumation would yield a more accurate estimation of the girl's age at the time of her death. Her skull was studied to create a more accurate composite image of her appearance in life.\n\nA girl of African heritage whose headless body was found inside an abandond property in 1983, in Berkeley, Missouri, a suburb northwest of St. Louis. Her head has never been found.\n\nThe decomposing body of a woman aged between 21 and 31 was found on December 2, 1990 in McDonald County, Missouri. The woman was possibly of mixed ancestry, having characteristics of both white and Native Americans. She had been tied with several different types of rope, her hands behind her back and fastened to one of her legs, which led some to presume she was a victim of rape or another form of sexual assault. One of the ropes was identified to be from a parachute, which may have originated from some sort of military branch. She was possibly killed at the scene, as a witness reported that he \"heard a woman scream\" around the time the Jane Doe would have died.\n\nOn March 7, 1992, the skeleton of a white male aged between 15 and 25 was located in St. Louis, Missouri in an abandoned building that had previously burned down. He was approximately five feet seven to five feet ten inches tall at a weight around 145 pounds. His hair was either blond or brown and was two inches in length. The decedent had received a fracture to his arm that had healed before his death, indicating some sort of injury was sustained when he was alive. His dentition was good and he did have some crooked teeth on the top set; four of his molars were repaired. The clothing he wore included a pink shirt, a white shirt with an embossed logo of Myrtle Beach, a black coat, boxers with stripes, jeans, socks and size eight shoes.\n\nThe case is considered a homicide, as evidence of numerous stab wounds were discovered on his ribs. He was originally believed to have been a black male as old as forty-five. After his remains were exhumed for additional physical information, his skull was absent and his coffin was subjected to damage. He could have been deceased from the years 1989 to 1992.\n\nIn January 2000, the skeletal remains of a white man estimated to be between 26 and 36 years of age were discovered in a remote area of Nevada, Missouri, in Vernon County.\n\nThe victim had died of a single gunshot wound to the head. Repeated attempts to identify this decedent have been unsuccessful, and the Vernon County Sheriff's Department has requested the public's help.\n\nA young white female with brown eyes and wavy, light brown hair whose body was located in Las Vegas in August 1979. She wore dentures, is estimated to have been aged between 15 and 25 years old, and was 100 to 105 pounds in weight.\n\nA young woman found stabbed to death in Henderson, Nevada, near Arroyo Grande Boulevard on October 5, 1980. She had died approximately one day before her body was discovered and is estimated to have been aged between 14 and 25.\n\nThe body of a woman aged between 25 and 35 was found by hikers on July 17, 1982 in Sheep Flats, Washoe County, Nevada. The woman had been shot in the back of the head as she was bending over, possibly to tie her shoes. The bullet hole on her head had been covered with men's underwear.\n\nThe victim wore a light yellow pair of tennis shoes, a sleeveless blue shirt, jeans with a blue bikini bottom in its pocket and a blue swimsuit underneath. The shirt had been sold at stores in California, Washington and Oregon.\n\nAt her autopsy, a vaccination scar was located on her left arm, another on her abdomen. In addition, one of her toenails had a large bruise underneath. Evidence from the style of dental work she had received indicated that she may have lived in Europe at some point during life, although this theory has been disproved. The woman had hazel eyes, was around five feet five inches in height, weighed 112 pounds, and had brown hair tied back in a bun. 231 people have been ruled out as possible identities of the decedent. In July 2018 it was announced that she had been tentatively identified by the DNA Doe Project which announced it; in September her identity was confirmed by the Washoe County Sheriff's Office. The Sheriff's Office is withholding further information due to the ongoing homicide investigation.\n\nThe nude body of a female, also known as the Shafter Jane Doe, was discovered on November 16, 1993 around six days after her murder had occurred. She was aged between 20 and 35, and had been shot twice: once in the chest region, and once in the back. She had also been beaten. She was five feet eight inches and 144 pounds with brown eyes and pierced ears, although the earrings were missing, possibly being taken by the killer. She also had painted her fingernails pink at one time.\n\nAfter examination, it was determined that she had used both alcohol and marijuana prior to her death, possibly given birth to a child in the past, and had very healthy teeth. Isotope analysis showed her recent place of residence to the city of Afton, Wyoming. Tire tracks near the body indicated that the killer's vehicle was either a pickup truck or a van. The victim had a mole above her right ear and two scars on her lower right leg.\n\nOn October 6, 1971, the body of a woman estimated to be aged between 23 and 37 years old was discovered by a hunter on a logging road in Bedford, Hillsborough County, New Hampshire. A forensic examination did not determine the cause of death, but determined that she had died between one and three months before her body was found. Nonetheless, the victim's death is reported to have been suspicious, as reported by investigators. She was around five feet two to five feet five inches tall, 115 to 130 pounds and wore sandals and red socks on her feet, blue cutoff shorts and a reddish blouse. The woman may have had brown hair, which was incorporated in the first of two facial reconstructions.\n\nIn 2006, a second facial reconstruction was created. This decedent is also known as \"Juliet Doe.\"\n\nThe bodies of four unidentified females found between 1985 and 2000. They consisted of a 23 to 33-year-old woman and three young children. The bodies were found inside of metal drums and the faces were reconstructed in effort toward identification.\nOn December 6, 1971, three hunters discovered the skeletonized remains of a white female in woodland in Galloway, New Jersey. Found with the body was a blue polo shirt, white-blue-and-orange striped hip-hugger trousers, brown sandals, white underwear, and a unique, wide leather bracelet with eyelets with a ladies' \"Westclock\" brand watch affixed to it (the watch had been manually affixed to this jewelry). The decedent had straight, light brown or auburn hair of approximately shoulder length, although her hair may have actually been a wig, as her hair bore evidence of artificial coloration and had various shades of color with the presence of coloring additive. Also found in her possession was a motel key; this key belonged to a nearby motel on the Garden State Parkway.\n\nThe victim was estimated to have been between 12 and 18 years of age, and her cause of death may have been strangulation. Although Atlantic County Jane Doe has a wide age-range of approximation, she was most likely aged 15 or younger at the time of her death. Her height is estimated to be between and (), and her weight was likely between 105 and 130 pounds. This decedent's murder is believed to have occurred several months before the discovery of her remains.\n\nA distinguishing feature of this decedent is that she had an extra sacral vertebrae. Another factor noted was that the victim did not bear any sign of having received dental work in life. However, her teeth bore little evidence of decay, although one of her molars was slightly damaged.\n\nOn June 24, 1980, the skeletal remains of a woman were found in High Point State Park in Sussex County, New Jersey. Her body had been extensively dismembered with a saw, with sections of the body being placed in various trash bags, which had subsequently been disturbed by animals. The bones of her torso were never located.\n\nThe victim was between 13 and 20 years old. Her actual race was difficult to determine, but was determined to be white with an unknown admixture, possibly Hispanic. Her height was between 5 feet and 5 feet 2 inches, and she may have been overweight, although her remains were too decomposed to establish an estimation of her precise weight. Her straight, medium-length hair was dark brown, but had been bleached blond.\n\nShe wore distinctive jeans that had various colors upon one of the legs. Her teeth were also considered unique by examiners, as they were of a distinct shape and although they showed no signs of dental care, were well maintained.\n\nThe body of a teenage girl aged between the ages of 15 and 20 found on July 15, 1982, in Blairstown, New Jersey. Because of numerous factors including significant damage to her face, she remains unidentified. The case has received significant media attention.\n\nThe 1986 Gloucester County Jane Doe is the name given to a female infant whose body was found on December 4, 1986 behind a restaurant in Turnersville, Gloucester County, New Jersey. The baby had been smothered to death very sortly after being born, and her body disposed of in a nearby dumpster. She was white, approximately twenty-inches tall and weighed around seven pounds, with dark hair and brown eyes.\n\nAfter the child's murder, she was wrapped in a distinct pink, black and white towel depicting an African landscape and then placed inside of a gray trash bag. The victim herself has been reconstructed and the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children have also created an estimation of what her mother may have looked like, although she has never been located.\n\nOn March 2, 2004, a woman's remains were found in Logan Township, Gloucester County, New Jersey. She is believed to have been multiracial, as traits from Caucasian, Hispanic and Asian races were found during her autopsy, which led to several reconstructions being made to illustrate her potential likeness. The woman was aged between 18 and 30 when she was murdered by an undetermined cause. The victim had long dark hair with light highlights and was believed to be at a height between four feet eleven to five feet two inches at a weight between 80 and 110 pounds. Her body was partially disrobed and had also been burned, along with evidence that animals had scavenged the body, after it was dumped alongside interstate 295. Her teeth were in natural condition and she also had possibly borne a child during her life. Her clothing consisted of two blue shirts with different colored stripes, black pants and pink panties.\n\nOn October 18, 2007, the body of a black female was discovered in Bayonne, Hudson County, New Jersey. She was believed to be at the age of 16 to 20 years old when she died, although it was initially presumed that she could have been as old as thirty-five. Although the cause of the young woman's death was not discovered, it has been listed as suspicious. It was believed that she had been deceased for approximately three weeks prior to her discovery. Because of this fact, her remains were in an advanced state of decomposition, which may have erased any signs of trauma that she could have endured. In her long, black and braided hair, red and copper-colored extensions were found, which could be a vital clue in determining her identity. The decedent also wore camouflage pants, boy's underwear, a pink halter top and a black bra with red lace. White socks with orange on the toe area with a green teddy bear design on their side were found on her feet and no shoes were reported to have been found. The jewelry found upon the body included a metal body chain was worn around her waist as well as a plastic brown ring on her right thumb. She was between five feet two inches and five feet five inches and weighed between 118 and 138 pounds when she was still alive.\n\nDue to decomposition, only partial fingerprints were obtained and the eye color or any possible tattoos or scars could not be determined or found. Her DNA and dental information was obtained. She had some spaces between her upper front teeth, along with one dental filling on one of her back teeth. Because of heavy traffic on the road she was found, her body could have been transported from anywhere in the United States.\n\nOn March 10, 1985, the skeleton of a female aged 16 to 20 was discovered by a group of hunters, hidden under plastic and buried in a shallow grave in Doña Ana County, New Mexico. The decedent had died approximately three to six months before her body was discovered. She is believed to have been white and had blonde or light brown hair, which was likely her natural color, as the presence of pubic hair of the same color indicated. She had painted at least two of her fingernails pink and her skeletal structure bore evidence of abnormalities, some specific conditions of which were noted by a forensic anthropologist to be unusual to occur in someone of the subject's age. The remains were clothed in pink undergarments and a white jersey with the letter \"W.\" Some of the supports in the Jane Doe's bra were noted to have separated from the product. She also appeared to have possibly suffered a healed injury to the right side of her nose.\n\nHer height was believed to be between five feet and five feet four inches tall (152–162 cm). Although her weight could not be determined, she was most likely of a slim build.\n\nAuthorities determined the girl was a victim of homicide but declined to release details of how she was murdered, as the case is currently open.\n\nA man's mummified corpse was found by electric company workers chained to a telephone pole by the neck on May 27, 1999 near highway 180 in Luna County, New Mexico. The man died approximately six months before. He was approximately five feet eight inches tall with light brown hair and a graying beard. He also had green stitches in his knee. The victim wore an undershirt, a green shirt, jeans, and Nike shoes. The victim was estimated to be between 30 and 50 and was presumed to have been set afire after being chained to the pole, which was burnt halfway. The lighter presumably used to light the fire was found near the man's remains. The chain itself had been fastened with a lock.\n\nThe decomposed body of a female, estimated to have been deceased for between three and six days, was discovered by construction workers on September 19, 1990 at a location known as \"Chapel Hill\" in Hillsborough, Orange County, North Carolina. As the remains were found near the New Hope Church Exit, the victim was nicknamed \"Hope.\" The victim was a Caucasian female, aged between 14 and 25—most likely between 18 and 22—at the time of her death. She was found clothed in only a pink shirt decorated with three cartoon-style rabbits, two riding bicycles and one riding a unicycle; a bra; and white socks that were noticeably clean, indicating that she had worn shoes, likely around size six, but they had been removed either before or after death. She was between five feet three and five feet five inches in height and weighed between 110 and 115 pounds. Jewelry on the body included a ring and a bracelet both made from metal.\n\nThe decedent had shoulder-length brown or strawberry-blond hair with streaks that appeared to have been frosted blond and was cut in layers. She had also undergone surgery to remove her appendix at some point in life, as a scar was noted on her abdomen. Dental cavities were found upon the victim's teeth, yet she had undergone dental treatment in life, as some \"restorations\" were visible. The victim's wisdom teeth had yet to erupt. Other examinations of the remains indicated she did not appear to have ever broken or fractured a bone, or borne a child.\n\nDays before the remains were found, a female matching the description of the deceased was seen walking along Interstate 85, near the city of Burlington. It is possible that this female was hitchhiking. Damage to the victim's neck indicated she was likely strangled to death. The case was ruled as murder; one which has yet to be solved.\n\nA skeleton of a female discovered in 1995. Despite the fact that no evidence of violence was observable on the bones, the death is still considered a homicide. It is suspected that the victim may have been involved in sex work.\n\nThe body of a newborn male infant was discovered on March 3, 1999 near Fayetteville, Cumberland County, North Carolina. The child was murdered; having received extensive blunt trauma to his head and much of his body. After the child's death, he was placed inside of a distinctive large garbage bag, which had beccome undone and was covering only his legs at the time of discovery. His umbilical cord and several pubic hairs—likely sourcing from his mother—were still present on his body. DNA from the child's mother was also found. The boy's body had been disposed of by being accidentally dropped or thrown from a passing vehicle. This method of body disposal did not cause the damage to the child, as his wounds were considered to have been too severe and had evidently occurred before death. His mother may have been a white or Native American (possibly from the Lumbee tribe).\n\nThe day prior to the boy's discovery, a pregnant female was observed to have acted unusually after she was informed that she was required to take a maternity test. Later that night, a pregnant woman and a man were seen in a truck that was parked close to the area where the body was found.\n\nIn March 2011, a memorial placed at the location of Baby Michael's discovery was discovered to have been damaged. This desecration may have been caused by one or both of his parents.\n\nA white female with Hispanic characteristics was discovered on July 20, 1999, approximately two weeks to two months after her death in Dunn, Sampson County, North Carolina. The body was badly deteriorated, but the cause of death determined to be a stab wound to the neck. The remains were found near a migrant labor camp mainly consisting of Hispanic people, including women.\n\nThe victim was aged between 17 and 24 years old, five feet four to five feet seven inches tall, and weighed around 110 pounds. She wore a black spaghetti strap top, blue bra, and green jeans. Sandals and a yellow watch were also found at the scene. She had painted her fingernails blue at one point and had curly reddish hair. She was not likely a smoker and had no dental cavities, although some wear was observed on her lower row of teeth.\n\nThe murders of 12 men and women, only three of whom have ever been identified, taking place in between 1935 and 1938. All of the victims were dismembered.\n\nOn October 22, 1975 the remains of an unknown woman were found in Ottawa County, Ohio. The body was unclothed, leading officials to suspect foul play after the case was reopened in 2016.\n\nThe victim had died as a result of drowning and her body lacked any form of trauma to indicate her death was forced. She was aged between 20 and 30 at the time of her death, was about five feet four inches in height and weighed 140 pounds. An examination of her body indicated she may have been pregnant the year before her death. Her hair was a reddish-brown and her eyes were hazel or brown.\n\nBelle in the Well is a woman whose remains were discovered in a well in Chesapeake, Ohio on April 22, 1981. She had been strangled to death and her murder is believed to have been committed between 1979 and 1981.\n\nThe victim was between 30 and 60 years old at the time of her death and her body bore signs of arthritis in her back. She was about 5 feet 3inches in height and weighed between 130 and 150 pounds. She had prominent front teeth and cheekbones, and wore multiple layers of clothing. In her possession were a Greyhound Bus ticket and a distinctive coin. Her DNA was analyzed by the DNA Doe Project and distant relatives have been identified in Cabell County, West Virginia. Nonetheless, the decedent remains unidentified.\n\nOn March 10, 2007, the remains of an unknown female were discovered in a wooded area of Marion County, Ohio. She was aged between 15 and 24 and had died between 2002 and 2006, most likely within the two years prior to her discovery. She was between five feet three to five feet nine inches tall and had brown, straight hair. No clothing or personal effects were found with her body, which was completely skeletonized.\n\nThe female had unique physical characteristics. She was predominantly white, but could have had a degree of Hispanic or Asian heritage. She had also suffered damage to one of her front teeth (although this dental damage may have occurred posthumously). She did appear to have otherwise taken considerable care of her teeth although there was no evidence that she had seen a dentist during her lifetime.\n\nIn September 2016, authorities announced the possibility that this decedent was a victim of alleged serial killer Shawn Grate, who claimed he had killed this victim after encountering her selling magazines door-to-door. Grate has stated he believes the decedent's name may have been Dana. In January 2018, the results of isotope analysis conducted upon her remains indicated she likely originated from the southern United States, possibly Texas or Florida.\n\nOn April 18, 1980, the mummified corpse of a woman was discovered on the banks of the North Canadian River close to Jones in Oklahoma County, Oklahoma. The presence of three gunshot wounds upon her body clearly indicated her death was a homicide. One of these wounds contained clothing fibers and a dime that had been driven into the body by a .45 caliber bullet. Due to the fact quicklime that had been poured onto her remains in a likely attempt to accelerate decomposition, the woman became known as \"Lime Lady\". (The quicklime had actually helped preserve her corpse.)\n\nShe was between the ages of 18 and 25, five feet six inches tall and weighed approximately 115 to 120 pounds. She had a heart tattoo on her chest as well as an appendectomy scar. It is believed that she may have been murdered by a biker gang earlier in the year or in 1979, although some contemporary reports indicate she may have been deceased for as little as ten days. Multiple facial reconstructions of the decedent have been created, and her DNA has extracted for profiling in 2014.\n\nA woman believed to be aged between 40 and 50 whose dismembered remains were discovered on April 12, 1946. Her remains were subsequently lost by law enforcement.\nOn July 11, 1963, the remains of an infant or toddler were discovered near Ashland, Jackson County, Oregon after one of the blankets he was wrapped in was hooked by a fisherman. His remains were concealed in a blue blanket, a patchwork quilt with several red designs. The bundle was bound by telephone wires and weighed down with metal assayer's molds.\n\nThe child's autopsy indicated he likely died in the autumn of 1962 and he possibly had Down syndrome or a similar disability. The exact cause of the child's death was never determined, due to decomposition, but the case is classified as a homicide. His clothing included a red and white-striped long sleeved pullover, gray corduroy trousers which had an elastic waistband and a belt buckle. His footwear were ankle-length socks and white shoes, which may have been from a shoe store in Medford, Oregon. His other clothing may have been from a J. C. Penney store. The child was also found wearing a diaper made of cloth that was secured with pins and plastic pants. His blond or light brown hair was somewhat long, his eyes brown and eight of his teeth had erupted. What is unique about the boy's dentition is that one of his front bottom teeth was split in two, having two roots and an uncommon groove at its top. In efforts to identify the child, examiners took his footprints and compared them to those taken from other children from a local hospital and none apparently matched.\n\nThe skeleton of a man between the ages of 50 and 80 was discovered on August 26, 1972 in Bandon, Coos County, Oregon. The victim had been killed by two gunshots; both were located on the skull, which still contained the bullets.\n\nThe victim had died between 1967 and 1969, as the condition of his remains indicated. At the scene, which was near highway 101, three coins and two unfired bullets were found along with the man's clothing and dentures. He wore a hat, socks made from wool, a car key on a ring, a belt and a pair of leather boots which had white soles. It is possible that his dentures may have been from a local establishment serving veterans in 1966, as inscriptions on them indicated. In 2007, the DNA of the \"John Doe\" was tested against the family members of a missing Idaho man Fred Miller {Missing August 1968}; however there was no match\n\nThe Providence County John Doe is a man whos decomposing body was found floating in a pond on June 18, 1987 in Smithfield, Providence County, Rhode Island. The victim had been received 21 stab wounds to his head and chest, possibly inflicted by an ice pick. His body was weighted down by rocks and barbells that were enclosed around his remains with chicken wire. The decedent is believed to have died a week to three weeks before his body surfaced.\n\nA forensic examination of his remains indicated he may have been Hispanic, aged between 25 and 35, with brown hair and brown eyes. He was five feet five inches tall and weighed approximately 122 pounds. The decedent wore a mustache and beard, and his hairline was receding. He was found wearing a black shirt, gray sweatpants and shoes, although he wore no socks.\n\nA young man and woman whose bodies were found on August 9, 1976. Both are believed to have hailed from a wealthy background, possibly in French Canada. Each victim had been shot three times and both had died within 24 hours prior their discovery.\nOn November 16, 1987, the remains of a mixed-race woman of predominantly African and possibly Asian or East Indian heritage were found in Aiken County, South Carolina. The cause of death was not determined, but the bodies of two homicide victims were found within a half-mile of the same location, one in 1991 and one in 1993. The deceased had a visible overbite and analysis of her hair indicated that she used cocaine. She was estimated to have been dead for between one and five years, and to have been between the ages of 17 and 25 at death. She was between 5 feet 8 and 5 feet 10 inches tall and weighed between 150 and 160 pounds.\n\nOn January 25, 1993, the body of another unidentified woman was found in the same vicinity. She was aged between twenty-five and thirty-two, between 5 feet 4 and 5 feet 7 inches tall, and died from a stab wound to the back of the neck. Like the previous victim, she had protruding teeth and wore no clothing; unlike the previous victim, her body had been burned. She was estimated to have been dead for around one to three years. Convicted serial killer Henry Louis Wallace has been questioned in relation to these deaths, as he confessed to murdering black women in North and South Carolina in the relevant timeframe. However, no charges have been brought.\n\nThe body of a Hispanic or biracial woman was found strangled on May 24, 1995 in Yemassee, Beaufort County, South Carolina. Although the body was found laying face down, postmortem lividity indicated that it had been face-up for at least the first twelve hours after death, indicating that some time had passed between the death and disposal of the body. The victim had been between 30 and 35 years old, tall, and weighed ; both ears were pierced twice, and two earrings were present in each. She had scars from thyroid surgery and a caesarean birth, and had undergone a hysterectomy. Her hair was naturally brown but was dyed red. The body was nude except for panties.\n\nOn February 28, 1981, the body of a newborn male infant was discovered on the side of a road in Sioux Falls, Minnehaha County. The child is presumed to have been abandoned at the of his discovery just hours prior and most likely died due to a combination of exposure and blood loss.\n\nThe infant was wrapped in a blanket and a bed sheet when he was found, and still had the umbilical cord attached to his body. Little physical statistics exist regarding the victim, as his race, hair and eye color were not recorded.\n\nThe baby was buried in a ceremony attended by approximately 50 people, after public donations raised sufficient funds for the child to be afforded a dignified burial as opposed to interment inside a pauper's grave. An anonymous woman assisted with organizing the baby's funeral and named him \"Andrew.\" The body was later exhumed for DNA testing in hopes of both identifying the victim and his parents. If the victim could be identified, law enforcement explained their plans to file appropriate charges against a potential perpetrator or perpetrators.\n\nOn February 14, 1975, the virtually skeletonized remains of a black woman between the ages of 15 and 25 years were discovered in Maury County, Tennessee. Her body was found near a highway, leading investigators to believe that she may not have been a native of Tennessee.\n\nAn examination of the decedent's body indicated she most likely died six to nine months prior to the discovery of her body, thus making the most likely time of her death in the spring or summer of 1974. She was 5 feet 3 inches to 5 feet 5 inches in height, and weighed between 127 and 137 pounds. She wore a red top decorated with a seashell design, blue pants with a floral design, undergarments, and wedgie shoes. Her hair was black and kinky; her eye color could not be determined. Her autopsy also noted a distinctive dental trait: she had an extra tooth in her upper jaw. The victim had received several bone fractures during her life; two of which were fully healed at the time of her death. The unhealed fractures of the decedent were found in her pelvis and ribs.\n\nIt is possible the decedent was either the victim of a car accident or had been intentionally run down by a car, as her unhealed bone injuries and the location of her body suggest. The remains of a young dog were also found near her body, but it is not known if she owned the animal.\n\nThe skull of Maury County Jane Doe was reconstructed by the National Center for Missing and Exploited Children in 2012.\n\nThe body of a teenage Hispanic or Native American girl was discovered on March 24, 1976 in Nashville, Tennessee. She had died of drowning approximately one day prior to her discovery under unknown, but suspicious circumstances. She was 5 feet 2 inches in height and weighed between 120 and 130 pounds. This girl's age is estimated to be between 14 and 17 years old and she had large breasts for her age and a mole near her left temple. She also had scars on both arms which may have been caused by cigarette burns.\n\nPrior to her death, Davidson County Jane Doe had been seen in the company of another girl who was never located; according to witnesses who had seen the two together, the deceased had called herself a name phonetically sounding like \"Sherry\" or \"Cheryl\", and both girls claimed that they had run away from a treatment center in St. Paul, Minnesota, and were heading to Haines City, Florida. Her traveling companion was a white teenage girl with sandy-blonde hair and who wore wire-rimmed glasses.\n\nThe body of black female was discovered on October 25, 1998. She had received a gunshot wound to the head, several stab wounds and her body also revealed evidence of her having been beaten prior to her death. She was aged between 30 and 40, was five feet six inches in height and weighed130 pounds. She had died days prior to her discovery.\n\nAccording to her forensic examination, Campbell County Jane Doe had an extra tooth visible on the right side of her mouth and also had several impacted teeth, giving her a distinct smile. Forensic facial feconstructions of this decedent were screened on \"Good Morning America\" in 2004 in an attempt to generate leads as to her identity, but no sufficient clues were generated via this initiative.\n\nThe woman's body was exhumed in March 2015 to extract DNA from her remains.\n\nOn March 19, 1998, the body of a white female between the ages of 45 and 55 was discovered in the Cumberland River in Nashville. She had been shot twice in the head approximately one day before her body was located, and her body was dressed in athletic pants, underwear and one Reebok shoe. She wore jewelry, including a gold necklace with a Leo zodiac pendant and two rings; one of which was gold and the other black.\n\nThe victim was overweight for her height, weighing 167 pounds at her height of five feet two inches. Her teeth had been extensively cared for in life: dental work valued at approximately $10,000 was visible upon her teeth, indicating she likely hailed from a higher socioeconomic class. Her hair was brown with highlights and her eyes were green.\n\nA man had been seen in the company of this woman prior to her death inside a store; he had worn the same pendant as she. This individual was never located. In 2011, the decedent's DNA was entered into national forensic databases, although no matches have been made with her remains.\n\nThe skeleton of a woman of African heritage was discovered on November 14, 2007 in La Vergne, Rutherford County. She had been murdered approximately four months prior to her discovery, and her clothing had been removed. Although the actual cause of Rutherford County Jane Doe's death has not been conclusively determined, her hands and feet had been bound with yard trimmer cords.\n\nThis decedent was approximately five feet six inches in height and aged between her mid 20s and mid 30s; her hair was short and brown. Her teeth also revealed she had undergone dental surgery in her lifetime. She wore two bracelets (one of which contained pictures) and a ring.\n\nAlthough this decedent is believed to have been of African heritage, investigators cannot exclude the possibility she may have been biracial.\n\nThe skeletonized remains of three individuals: a female; a male child; and a teenager whose sex remains undetermined, were discovered in Middlebury, Vermont on May 15, 1935. Each victim had been shot in the head between one and three years prior to their discovery. The adult female's DNA showed she may have been the mother of the teenage victim, but testing of the youngest victim was inconclusive. The female was estimated to be aged between 35 and 45; the male child aged between nine and 11, and the teenager between 13 and 15 at the time of his or her death.\n\nAt the crime scene, investigators recovered feathers from a pillow, pearl buttons presumed to belong to pajamas. Facial reconstructions of the oldest and youngest victims were created in 2015.\n\nOn June 13, 1972, the nude body of a boy of African heritage aged between three and six years old was found in Massey Creek, Virginia. The child was four feet tall and weighed just 50 pounds. He had been dead less than 24 hours. The cause of death was determined be multiple blows to the head.\n\nThe decomposing body of a white male was found on May 27, 1987 in Rockbridge County, Virginia. He was estimated to be between 20 and 40 years of age (most likely being aged in his early twenties). The decedent's hair was brown and he was approximately five feet four inches tall. He was presumed to have been nearsighted, as he wore plastic-framed glasses to treat the condition, issued by a Veterans Administration. The decedent's possessions included a switchblade along with a cross necklace, ten dollars and twelve cents, a cassette tape, memo pad, a lighter, and a pen. His clothing included a short-sleeved shirt, blue jeans, white socks with yellow and green stripes, a brown belt with paint-spattering, brown shoes, and a coat.\n\nThe man had been killed by two gunshot wounds by a man named John Swartz, who has since been convicted of his murder. The victim had allegedly been picked up at a truck stop by Swartz and had informed Swartz his name was Chris.\n\nSwartz had paid the decedent assist him with unloading cargo, which he then used to buy several items. After Swartz had picked up a second shipment, the Swartz requested more money along with some of the items in the vehicle, threatening Swartz with the knife he had purchased with his initial payment. This physical threat was accompanied by a verbal threat of informing authorities he had an \"unauthorized passenger\" inside his vehicle. After he had taken contact information that was later discovered in his pockets, Swartz eventually killed the man and proceeded with his shipment.\n\nConstruction workers discovered the skeletalized remains of a 26 to 31-year-old woman in a shallow grave in Centreville, Fairfax County on December 6, 1993. The woman had been stabbed to death, most likely in the late 1980s or early 1990s. Multiple articles of clothing were found with her body, as well as a clip-on button earring. In addition, she was wearing dark pink nail polish on her fingernails.\n\nFairfax County Jane Doe was estimated to be between five feet and five feet three inches in height and had \"dark blond to brown hair\". The dental care she had received was relatively poor as many of her teeth were in an advanced state of decay. She is presumed to be white, although it is possible that she may have been Hispanic.\n\nSnohomish County Jane Doe is the name given to an unidentified female aged between 15 and 21 who was picked up hitchhiking in August 1977. The man that accepted her request for a ride eventually strangled and shot the victim seven times in the head after she refused to engage in intercourse after the pair had spent the day together. Her decomposed body was discovered five days afterward, on August 14, 1977 in Everett, Washington.\n\nThe decedent was determined to be a white female with un-dyed brown, shoulder-length hair. She was five feet ten inches in height and weighed between 150 and 160 pounds. She had a suntan, restorations on her upper front teeth (that protruded somewhat), and appeared to be a smoker, as she had a packet of Marlboro cigarettes in her possession.\n\nIn 1979, the man that killed her was convicted of her murder after ballistic testing confirmed that bullets recovered at the scene of her discovery had been fired from his gun. He was released 26 years later.\n\nThis unidentified decedent is also known as \"Precious Doe.\"\n\nOn February 1, 1980, the partially skeletalized remains of a girl between the ages of 13 and 18 were discovered in woodland near Amboy, Clark County, Washington (although her NamUs profile states the remains were discovered on February 24). She is estimated to have died circa 1978, and was the victim of a homicide.\n\nThe girl's weight and height could not be estimated because the bones of her torso were never found. One or both of her hands were also not found at the crime scene. Her exact race is not known, but she may have been biracial. After examining her bones, it is believed that the muscles on her neck would have been \"well developed.\"\n\nSoon after a 2016 review of the case, internet users began referring to her case as the \"Fly Creek Jane Doe\" case.\n\nIn 2018, an independent group led by Jason Futch began active research on the Clark County Jane Doe case. Futch had previously ran an independent study on Florida's Lake City John Doe case, with which some of his information had been useful in identifying the John Doe as Fred Paul Laster. Putting in some hours and trips to the crime scene, this independent group are currently building a profile on the decedent and a potential suspect in her murder. Additionally, Futch announced that $500 would be rewarded to an individual who could successfully identify this Jane Doe or provide information to Law Enforcement that ultimately leads to her positive identification. Futch is considering raising the reward to $1000 by the end of 2019.\n\nOn June 20, 1984, the nude remains of a woman were found in the Spokane River in Spokane County, Washington. Initially believed to be aged between 16 and 30, a further examination conducted in 1998 indicated that she was actually aged between 16 and 35 years old at the time of her death.\n\nThe decedent was white, around five feet five inches in height and weighed approximately 130 pounds. She had two prominent moles on her neck, and is known to have suffered from a minor case of spina bifida. She also had a scar on both her left arm and upon one of her knees. Her body was extensively dismembered, with her head, hands and feet being severed from her body. A separate hand was located around the time of the discovery of her torso, but was determined not to have belonged to the decedent. She is known to have borne at least one child during her life.\n\nHer head was not located until 1998, which was matched with the DNA of the victim. She had suffered a blow to the face, which had caused fractures to her skull. Additionally, sharp force trauma was found on the side of the head.\n\nSeveral reconstructions have been created of Spokane County Jane Doe's face.\n\nOn March 21, 1984, the body of a teenage female was found in Seattle, Washington. She had died at least ten months before her discovery and was aged between 12 and 18. She was most likely left-handed, and a healed fracture was also observed on her skull. Gary Ridgway described her as a white female in her early twenties who may have had brown hair.\n\nOn January 2, 1986, the body of another female was found in Auburn, King County, Washington. She was aged between 14 and 19 and had lain undiscovered for between two and six years.\n\nA third Green River victim also remains unidentified. Her remains were discovered in August 2003. Due to the recovered remains being partial, no option exists to reconstruct her face, although she is believed to have been aged between 13 and 24. Ridgway described this victim as a white female in her mid-teens or early twenties with blond or brown hair and around 135 pounds in weight.\n\nThese three victims remain known as Jane Doe B-10, Jane Doe B-17 and Jane Doe B-20, respectively. Most, though not all, of the Green River Killer's victims who have been identified were involved in prostitution.\n\nOn May 10, 1950, the nude body of a white female was discovered in Morgan County, West Virginia. She had been strangled to death within 48 hours prior to her discovery, with her body being discarded in a wooded area close to the state border of Maryland. She was estimated to be between the ages of 35 and 50 at the time of her death.\n\nThe victim had reddish hair in a perm and her height was approximately five feet five inches. Her weight was between 125 and 135 pounds. The victim had several distinctive scars upon her body; one shaped like the letter \"w\" on her forehead; and another shaped like the letter \"y\" on one of her wrists. A scar from a hysterectomy and an appendectomy were also present. Her hands were noticeably small, and she had freckles on the back of both hands and upon her arms. Despite the fact the decedent was found shortly after her death, her eye color is unknown.\n\nIn 2007, the body was exhumed to obtain DNA information in efforts to determine her identity.\n\nA young boy estimated to be between five and seven years old whose body was found in a pond in Waukesha, Wisconsin in 1921. He was dressed in upper-class clothing. Despite the apparently affluent background of the child, his family never claimed his body.\n\nThe skeletal remains of a woman were found in Caledonia, Columbia County, Wisconsin on May 8, 1982. The body was found in a wooded area near Highway 78. It is believed that she had died elsewhere and was disposed of at that location. The victim and her murderer may not have been local to the area where the body was discovered as her body was found near a highway, indicating that her body may have been transported to the location from elsewhere in the United States.\n\nThe victim, aged 45 to 65 and most likely white, had been killed by blunt-force trauma to the skull. She had likely borne at least one child before her death. There was evidence of arthritis in her neck and back, and this may have affected the way she walked.\n\nBecause of the degree of decomposition of the body, the hair color, eye color, weight, and complexion of the victim are unknown. However, some details could be assessed. Her height is estimated to be 5 feet 5 to 5 feet 7 inches tall. The victim's dental characteristics were fairly unusual, as the partial denture and crowns in her mouth were said to have been out of the ordinary. No clothing was found at the body disposal site except for a multicolored blouse and size 12 brown pants.\n\nShe was buried in Wyocena, Wisconsin, on September 1, 1987, after her case went cold but her body was later exhumed in April 2014. The remains were transported to Virginia for additional testing, including DNA profiling. Since the case was reopened and reintroduced to the public eye, tips as to her identity have been submitted to the authorities.\n\nThe skeleton of a young man was discovered by loggers on September 21, 1982, in Dallas, Barron County, Wisconsin. This decedent is estimated to be between 18 and 24 years old at the time of his death. Basic estimations, such as the height, weight and hair color were later calculated. He was about 5 feet 7 to 5 feet 9 inches tall and likely weighed 180 to 195 pounds, with a large build. Hair found with the body was light brown.\n\nIt is believed that the decedent had been stabbed to death; this was indicated by tears in his western-style plaid shirt. He was also wearing jeans, a denim jacket, and blue shoes with white stripes.\n\nSome distinctive elements as to the victim were also noted. It is possible that he wore glasses, although none were found at the scene. He had received a large amount of dental work in life; this had been performed shortly before he died. He had also had some kind of surgery on his left knee that involved a screw and staple in the tibia. This kind of surgery would have required an extensive hospitalization period that could have lasted up to six months. Serial numbers on the screw and staple were traced, but this did not lead to the location where they had been purchased.\n\nVernon County Jane Doe is a woman aged between 50 and 65 years old who was murdered in 1984. She had been killed by blunt-force trauma to her head. Her hands had been severed from her arms to prevent fingerprinting and identification.\n\nA possibly mentally handicapped woman who was discovered in a field; evidence on the body indicated that she had endured weeks of abuse before ultimately dying in July 1999. The victim had been dead less than a day and was between 18 and 30 years old.\n\nThe skull of a woman aged 35 to 60 years was found in an advanced stage of decomposition on October 21, 2002. She had been dead for approximately one year before her skull was found.\n\nThe skull had been placed in a garbage bag, which was disposed of near Anderson Scout Camp Road, where it was later discovered by Boy Scouts.\n\nThe woman had dark brown hair, no teeth, and may have been of mixed race. Examination of the skull indicated that she may have had a mental disability. She may also have had \"different looking\" features, such as wide-set eyes and a flat nose. She may have been living in a group home, as her condition may have been severe.\n\nA teenage or young adult woman who was found frozen in ice in 2008. She had a distinctive overbite and may have been pigeon-toed or knock-kneed.\n\nThe nude body of a white female was discovered on March 1, 1992 in Sweetwater County, Wyoming. The decedent's body is believed to have been discarded at the location of her discovery approximately one month prior, although due to the cold weather, her body was well preserved. She was between 24 and 32 years of age, and between five feet six and five feet eight inches in height. She had a scar from a Caesarean section on her abdomen as well as a tattoo of a rose beneath one of her breasts. At the crime scene, a golden-appearing necklace and ring, sweatpants and pink underwear were found. (After images of the victim's tattoo were published throughout the United States, a man came forward claiming that he had performed the tattoo on the woman. This man claimed that she was Hispanic, lacking any discernible accent, and was likely a drifter who hitchhiked frequently around the country.)\n\nLater genetic testing would also determine the woman was of possible Hispanic and European descent. This unidentified decedent is also known as \"Rose Doe\".\n\nThe woman had died from being stabbed through one of the nostrils, having also been strangled and beaten, likely at another location. She had also been sexually assaulted both anally and vaginally prior to her murder.\n\nMultiple missing persons have been ruled out as possible identities of Bitter Creek Betty. Apart from this victim, two other decedents from the area also remain unidentified. DNA from the scene has also matched another murder, indicating she has been murdered by a serial killer.\n\nA female aged 16 to 21 was discovered murdered on April 13, 1992 in Sheridan County, Wyoming. DNA from the scene was eventually matched to that found at the site of Bitter Creek Betty's body. Unlike the previous victim, the body of this decedent was too decomposed to identify visually and her eye color could not be determined. The cause of her death was ruled as blunt force trauma to the head. She was white, five feet five to five feet six inches tall, 110 to 115 pounds and had brown hair with a wavy texture. It is believed that she was murdered at a different area than where her body was discovered.\n\nThe victim's clothing consisted of a patterned white and light blue top that had ties underneath the bust, with pearl and jewel-like buttons. The female also wore a bra, blue jeans, pink underwear and brass earrings.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "355620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=355620", "title": "Lorenzo Ruiz", "text": "Lorenzo Ruiz\n\nSaint Lorenzo Ruiz (; ; ; ca. 1600 – 29 September 1637) is a Filipino saint venerated in the Roman Catholic Church. A Chinese-Filipino, he became the country's protomartyr after his execution in Japan by the Tokugawa Shogunate during its persecution of Japanese Christians in the 17th century.\n\nSaint Lorenzo is patron saint of, among others, the Philippines and the Filipino people.\n\nLorenzo Ruiz was born in Binondo, Manila, to a Chinese father and a Filipino mother who were both Catholic. His father taught him Chinese while his mother taught him Tagalog.\n\nRuiz served as an altar boy at the Binondo Church. After being educated by the Dominican friars for a few years, Ruiz earned the title of \"escribano\" (calligrapher) because of his skillful penmanship. He became a member of the \"Cofradia del Santísimo Rosario\" (Confraternity of the Most Holy Rosary). He married Rosario, a native, and they had two sons and a daughter. The Ruiz family led a generally peaceful, religious and content life.\n\nIn 1636, whilst working as a clerk for the Binondo Church, Ruiz was falsely accused of killing a Spaniard. Ruiz sought asylum on board a ship with three Dominican priests: Saint Antonio Gonzalez, Saint Guillermo Courtet, and Saint Miguel de Aozaraza; a Japanese priest, Saint Vicente Shiwozuka de la Cruz; and a lay leper Saint Lázaro of Kyoto. Ruiz and his companions sailed for Okinawa on 10 June 1636, with the aid of the Dominican fathers.\n\nThe Tokugawa Shogunate was persecuting Christians by the time Ruiz had arrived in Japan. The missionaries were arrested and thrown into prison, and after two years, they were transferred to Nagasaki to face trial by torture. The group endured many and various cruel methods of torture.\n\nOn 27 September 1637, Ruiz and his companions were taken to Nishizaka Hill, where they were tortured by being hung upside-down over a pit. This form of torture was known as \"tsurushi\" (釣殺し) in Japanese or \"horca y hoya\" (\"gallows and pit\") in Spanish. The method, alleged to have been extremely painful, had the victim bound; one hand was always left free so that the individual may signal their desire to recant, leading to their release. Despite his suffering, Ruiz refused to renounce Christianity and died from eventual blood loss and suffocation. His body was cremated, with the ashes thrown into the sea.\n\nAccording to Latin missionary accounts sent back to Manila, Ruiz declared these words upon his death:\n\nThe \"Positio Super Introductione Causae\" or the cause of beatification of Saint Lorenzo Ruiz was written by respected historian, Fr. Fidel Villarroel, O.P. Ruiz was beatified during Pope John Paul II's papal visit to the Philippines. It was the first beatification ceremony to be held outside the Vatican in history. San Lorenzo Ruiz was canonized by the same pope in the Vatican City on 18 October 1987, making him the first Filipino saint.\n\nHis canonization was supported by a miracle in October 1983, when Cecilia Algeria Policarpio of Calinog, Iloilo, was cured of brain atrophy (hydrocephalus) at the age of two, after her family and supporters prayed to Ruiz for his intercession. She was diagnosed with the condition shortly after birth and was treated at University of the East Ramon Magsaysay Memorial Medical Center.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nLorenzo Ruiz is included in American painter John Nava's \"Communion of Saints Tapestries\", a depiction of 135 saints and \"beati\" which hangs inside the Cathedral of Our Lady of the Angels in Los Angeles, California.\n\nOn 28 September 2007, the Catholic Church celebrated the 20th anniversary of Ruiz's canonisation. Then-archbishop of Manila Cardinal Gaudencio Rosales said: \"\"Kahit saan nandoon ang mga Pilipino, ang katapatan sa Diyos ay dala-dala ng Pinoy\".\" (\"Wheresoever Filipinos are, the Pinoy brings fidelity to God.\")\n\nA mosaic of St. Lorenzo is found in the Trinity Dome of Mary's National Shrine in Washington DC.\n\nOn 28 September 2017, St. Lorenzo Ruiz celebrated his 30th anniversary of his canonisation by Archbishop of Manila.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1238913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1238913", "title": "Marjorie Bruce", "text": "Marjorie Bruce\n\nMarjorie Bruce or Marjorie de Brus (probably 1296–1316) was the eldest daughter of Robert the Bruce, King of Scots by his first wife, Isabella of Mar. (Six years after Isabella's death, Robert married Elizabeth de Burgh.)\n\nMarjorie's marriage to Walter, High Steward of Scotland gave rise to the House of Stewart. Her son was the first Stewart monarch, King Robert II of Scotland.\n\nHer mother, Isabella, was a noblewoman from the Clan Mar. Soon after giving birth to Marjorie, at the age of 19, Isabella died. Marjorie's father was at that time the Earl of Carrick, and Marjorie was named after her father's mother, Marjorie, Countess of Carrick.\n\nAccording to legend, Marjorie's parents had been very much in love, and Robert the Bruce did not remarry until Marjorie was 6 years old. In 1302, a courtier named Elizabeth de Burgh became her stepmother.\n\nOn 27 March 1306, her father was crowned King of Scots at Scone, Perthshire, and Marjorie, then 9 years old, became a Princess of Scotland.\n\nThree months after the coronation, in June, 1306, her father was defeated at the Battle of Methven. He sent his wife, two sisters, and Marjorie north with his supporter Isabella MacDuff, Countess of Buchan, but by the end of June they were captured by Uilleam II, Earl of Ross, a Balliol supporter, who handed them over to the English.\n\nAs punishment, Edward I of England sent his hostages to different places in England. Princess Marjorie went to the convent at Watton; her aunt Christina Bruce was sent to another convent; Queen Elizabeth was placed under house arrest at a manor house in Yorkshire (because Edward I needed the support of her father, the powerful Earl of Ulster, her punishment was lighter than the others'); and Marjorie's aunt Mary Bruce and the Countess of Buchan were imprisoned in wooden cages, exposed to public view, at Roxburgh Castle and Berwick Castle, respectively. For the next four years, Marjorie, Elizabeth, Christina, Mary, and Isabella endured solitary confinement, with daily public humiliation for the latter two. A cage was built for Marjorie at the Tower of London, but Edward I reconsidered and instead sent her to the convent. Christopher Seton, Christina's husband, was executed.\n\nEdward I died on 7 July 1307. He was succeeded by his son, Edward II, who subsequently held Marjorie captive in a convent for about seven more years. She was finally set free around 1314, probably in exchange for English noblemen captured after the Battle of Bannockburn.\n\nWalter Stewart, 6th High Steward of Scotland distinguished himself in the battle and was rewarded the hand of the adolescent princess. Her dowry included the Barony of Bathgate in West Lothian. \n\nThe traditional story is that two years later, on 2 March 1316, Marjorie was riding in Gallowhill, Paisley, Renfrewshire while heavily pregnant. Her horse was suddenly startled and threw her to the ground. She went into premature labour and her child, Robert, was born. Marjorie died soon afterward at the age of around 20, like her mother, who was roughly the same age when she died in childbirth. However, it is not clear that this traditional story is correct; some accounts indicate that she may have survived into 1317. (She may still have died in a riding accident, but this could have taken place after the birth of her son.)\n\nAt the junction of Renfrew Road and Dundonald Road in Paisley, a cairn marks the spot called \"the Knock\", near where Marjorie reputedly fell from her horse. Bruce Road and Marjorie Drive are named in her honour. She is buried at Paisley Abbey.\n\nHer son succeeded his childless uncle David II of Scotland in 1371 as King Robert II. Her descendants include the House of Stuart (or Stewart) and all their successors on the throne of Scotland, England and the United Kingdom.\n\nThe young adult novel \"Girl in a Cage\", by Jane Yolen and Robert J. Harris, features Marjorie Bruce as its protagonist. In it, Marjorie is imprisoned in a cage. Although there is a preface stating that it is fictional, many have taken it to be a true story.\n\nThe historical fiction novel \"Spirit of Fire: The Tale of Marjorie Bruce \" (2016), by the young author Emmerson Brand, features Marjorie Bruce as its protagonist.\n\nIn the historical action drama film \"Outlaw King\" (2018), Marjorie is featured as a minor character during the First War of Scottish Independence.\n\nThe original site of Bathgate Castle, which was part of her dowry, can be found on the grounds of Bathgate Golf Club. The site is protected by the Historic Scotland organisation and the Club is debarred from carrying out any excavation work on the site without prior permission. Every year on the first Saturday of June, the town of Bathgate celebrates the marriage of Marjorie and Walter in their annual historical pageant, just before the town's procession and Newland festival. Local school children are given the parts of Marjorie, Walter and other members of the court. After the pageant, everyone joins the procession along with Robert the Bruce on horseback.\n\n"}
{"id": "23799709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23799709", "title": "Marvin Sonsona", "text": "Marvin Sonsona\n\nMarvin Doecadez Sonsona (born July 25, 1990) is a Filipino professional boxer and former WBO super flyweight champion. A relative of his named Eden Sonsona is also a boxer and a former Philippine national bantamweight champion. One of Sonsona's trainers is Nonito Donaire Sr., father and trainer of Nonito Donaire.\n\nSonsona started boxing at seven years of age under the tutelage of his uncle. Before fighting as a professional, he fought 150 times as an amateur.\n\nHe won his professional debut on points then knocked out his next ten opponents in short rounds. All his first opponents were unknowns but then he also knocked out former two time WBC world Champion Thai fighter Wandee Singwancha (record 57-10) via second-round KO.\n\nSonsona climbed up in weight to challenge José López for the WBO super flyweight title on September 5, 2009. He scored a knockdown in the fourth round and fought his way to a unanimous decision victory.\n\nOn November 20, 2009, Sonsona vacated his newly won WBO super flyweight title after not being able to make the weight limit for his first title defense. The bout still went on with the WBO title at stake but only his challenger, Alejandro Mutchuneli (22-7-1), had the chance to win. At the end of the bout, the judges had it a split decision. With the result, Sonsona set a record for the Philippine boxer who had the shortest reign as world champion: 2 months and 17 days.\n\nOn February 27, 2010, Sonsona jumped two weight divisions, challenging undefeated Wilfredo Vázquez, Jr. for the vacant WBO super-bantamweight title. Vázquez, son of former world champion Wilfredo Vázquez, defeated Sonsona by knockout in the fourth round.\n\nOn October 15, 2011 Sonsona finally back in action facing Carlos Jakolmo, Sonsona sent the Mexican boxer to the canvass during the 8th round and He defeated Jakolmo via Unanimous Decision.\n\nSonsona claimed a 5th round KO victory against Dominican Republic's Carlos “El Burito” Fulgencio in the main event Pinoy Knockout 1 at the Hoops Dome in Lapu-Lapu City, Cebu, Philippines on March 17, 2012. Sonsona has assured himself of a slot in the undercard of Johnriel Casimero's IBF Interim light flyweight title defense against Mexico’s Sammy Gutierrez on May 13, 2012 at the Waterfront Cebu City Hotel.\n\n"}
{"id": "14970425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14970425", "title": "Military sexual trauma", "text": "Military sexual trauma\n\nAs defined by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs, military sexual trauma (MST) are experiences of sexual assault, or repeated threatening sexual harassment that occurred while a person was in the United States Armed Forces.\n\nMilitary sexual trauma is used by the United States Department of Veterans Affairs (VA) and defined in federal law as \"psychological trauma, which in the judgment of a VA mental health professional, resulted from a physical assault of a sexual nature, battery of a sexual nature, or sexual harassment which occurred while the Veteran was serving on active duty, active duty for training, or inactive duty training\".\n\nSexual harassment \"... means repeated, unsolicited verbal or physical contact of a sexual nature which is threatening in character\". The behavior may include physical force, threats of negative consequences, implied promotion, promises of favored treatment, or intoxication of either the perpetrator or the victim or both.\n\nMilitary sexual trauma is a serious issue faced by the United States armed forces. In 2012, 13,900 men and 12,100 women who were active duty service members reported unwanted sexual contact while in 2016, 10,600 men and 9,600 women reported being sexually assaulted. Further, there were 5,240 official reports of sexual assault involving service members as victims in 2016; however, it is estimated that 77% of service member sexual assaults go unreported. More specifically, prevalence of MST among veterans returning from Operation Enduring Freedom (OEF) in Afghanistan and Operation Iraqi Freedom (OIF) in Iraq, was reported to be as high as 15.1% among females and 0.7% among males. In a study conducted in 2014, 196 female veterans who had deployed to OIF and/or OEF were interviewed and 41% of them reported experiencing MST. As a result of these and similar findings, 17 former service members filed a lawsuit in 2010 accusing the Department of Defense of allowing a military culture that fails to prevent rapes and sexual assaults. According to the Department of Defense Task Force on Sexual Violence (2004) perpetrators of sexual assault were often male, serving in the military, and knew the victim well.\n\nCurrently, the U.S. military allows victims of MST to make either restricted or unrestricted reports of sexual assault. This two tier system includes restricted (anonymous) and unrestricted reporting. A restricted report, allows victims to receive access to counseling and medical resources without disclosing their assault to authorities or seeking litigation against the perpetrator(s). This is different from an unrestricted report which involves seeking criminal charges against the perpetrator, eliminating anonymity. The restricted reporting option is meant to reduce negative social consequences suffered by MST survivors, increase MST reporting and in doing so improve the accuracy of information concerning MST prevalence.\nAccording to the DOD Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military (2016) in 2015, there were 4,584 Unrestricted Reports involving Service members as either victims or subjects and 1,900 Restricted Reports involving Service members as either victims or subjects. The Services do not investigate Restricted Reports and do not record the identities of alleged perpetrators. Service members who experience MST are eligible for medical care, mental healthcare, legal services, and spiritual support related to MST through the VA. \n\nU.S. military members appear to fear repercussions, retaliation, and the stigma associated with reporting MST. The reasons service members do not report military sexual assaults include concerns about confidentiality, wanting to \"move on\", not wanting to seem \"weak\", fear about career repercussions, fear of stigmatization, and worry about retaliation by superiors and fellow service members. Additionally, survivors of MST may believe that nothing will be done if they report a sexual assault, they may blame themselves, and/or they may fear for their reputation. \n\nStigma is a significant deterrent to reporting MST. Many military service members do not report sexual abuse due to fear about not being believed, worry about career impact, fear of retribution, or because their victimization will be minimized with comments such as \"suck it up\". Additionally, perceived stigma associated with seeking mental health treatment after experiencing MST affects reporting. Service members often do not disclose any type of trauma (sexual assault or battlefield trauma) until asked specifically by a mental health professional due to mental health stigma, worry about career difficulties, or because they wish to preserve their masculine image. \n\nAdditionally, reporting MST sometimes results in an individual being diagnosed with a personality disorder, resulting in a discharge other than honorable, and reducing access to benefits from the VA or state. A diagnosis of a personality disorder also discounts or minimizes the credibility of the victim and may result in stigmatization by the civilian community. Many survivors of MST report that they experience rejection from the military and feel incompetent after an Unrestricted Report.\n\nIn spite of increased access to medical and mental health resources there are also important drawbacks to unrestricted reports of MST. MST survivors often report a loss of professional and personal identity. They are also at increased risk of re-traumatization and retaliation through the process of getting help. Service members may experience re-traumatization through blame, misdiagnosis, and being questioned about the validity of their experience. Retaliation from reporting a sexual complaint may have distressing consequences for the victim and weakens the respectful culture of the military. Retaliation can refer to reprisal, ostracism, maltreatment or abusive behavior by co-workers, exclusion by peers, or disruption of their career. The Department of Defense Task Force on Sexual Violence (2004) reported that unkind gossip was the most common problem that members experienced at work in response to a MST report. In 2015, 68% of survivors reported at least one negative experience associated with their report of sexual assault.\nThe Department of Defense Annual Report on Sexual Assault in the Military (2016) indicates that approximately 61% of retaliation reports involved a man or multiple men as alleged retaliators, while nearly 27% of reports included multiple men and women as retaliators. The majority (73%) of retaliators were not the alleged perpetrator of the associated sexual assault or sexual harassment. More than half (58%) of the alleged retaliators were in the chain of command of the reporter, followed by peers, co-workers, friends, or family members of the reporter, or a superior not in the reporters chain of command. Infrequently (7%), the alleged sexual perpetrator was also the alleged retaliator.\n\n85% of the members of the military are active duty and male. Although more men than women in the military experience sexual assault, a larger proportion of female victims report their assault to military authorities. In 2004, of service members who said they reported their experiences, 33% of women and 28% of men were satisfied with the complaint outcome, meaning approximately two thirds of women and men were dissatisfied. Service members who felt satisfied with the outcome of their report indicated that the situation was corrected, the outcome of the report was explained to them, and some action was taken against the offender. Service members who were dissatisfied with the outcome reported that nothing was done about their complaint. Since changes in reporting standards were implemented in 2012, military sexual assault reporting has increased significantly. Since this change, most service members report instances of MST to their direct supervisor, another person in their chain of command, or the offender's supervisor, rather than to a military special office or civilian authority.\n\nIndividuals who make a report and deny mental health evaluations could be given a dishonorable discharge for making false allegations. Therefore, victims are sent the message to \"keep quiet and deal with it\" rather than reporting the assault and possibly losing their career and military benefits. In fact, 23% of women and 15% of men reported that action was taken against them because of their complaint. Additionally, according to an investigation by the Human Rights Watch in 2016, many survivors reported they received more disciplinary notices, were seen as \"troublemakers\", assigned undesirable shift assignments, were intimidated by drill sergeants, were threatened by peers with comments such as \"you got what you deserved\", and were socially isolated and further assaulted due to fear of more retaliation after an initial report. \n\nService members who experiencing a MST may experience increased emotional and physical distress as well as feelings of shame, hopelessness, and betrayal. Some of the psychological experiences of both male and female survivors include: depression, symptoms of post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), mood disorders, dissociative reactions, isolation from others, and self-harm. Medical symptoms survivors have experienced include sexual difficulties, chronic pain, weight gain, and gastrointestinal problems. \n\nAccording to research, reports of MST have been shown to be higher among veteran populations compared to current active duty personnel and DoD estimates. Specifically within the lesbian, gay, and bisexual (LGB) veteran community, who are significantly more likely to have experienced military sexual assault (MSA) (32.7% of combined female and male veterans) than non-LGB veterans (16.4%).\n\nMST is a significant predictor of interpersonal difficulties post-deployment. Holland and colleagues (2015) found that survivors who perceived greater logistical barriers to obtaining mental health care reported more symptoms of depression and PTSD. Particularly for women veterans, PTSD and suicide are major concerns. Males experiencing MST are associated with greater PTSD symptom severity, greater depression symptom severity, higher suicidality, and higher outpatient mental health treatment. In general, male veterans who report experiencing MST are younger, less likely to be currently married, more likely to be diagnosed with a mood disorder, and more likely to have experienced non-MST sexual abuse either as children or adults than military members who have not been victimized. However, the strongest predictor of any of these negative mental health outcomes, for either gender, includes anticipating public stigma (i.e., worrying about being blamed for the assault).\n\nThe Veterans Health Administration (VHA) provides medical and mental health services free of charge to enrolled veterans who report MST and has implemented universal screening for MST among all veterans receiving VA health care (Title 38 United States Code 1720D; Public Law 108-422).\n\n"}
{"id": "11575806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11575806", "title": "Mor Abraham", "text": "Mor Abraham\n\nMor Abraham is a saint of the Syriac Orthodox Church. His feast day is November 15.\n\n"}
{"id": "51928173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51928173", "title": "Muhammad Yusuf Ali", "text": "Muhammad Yusuf Ali\n\nMuhammad Yusuf Ali (1923 – December 1998) was a Bangladesh politician. He was the first minister for Education and Cultural Affairs in the first cabinet of Bangladesh.\n\nAli was born in Farakkabad, Biral, Dinajpur in 1923. He passed matriculation in 1944 from Dinajpur Academy High School and intermediate exams from Ripon College. He got his bachelor's from Surendranath College and master's from the University of Dhaka in 1953. He later earned a B.Law degree from University of Rajshahi and joined the Dinajpur district bar.\n\nAli was a professor of Nawabganj College and afterwards at Surendranath College. He joined awami league in 1960 and in 1962 was elected to the East Pakistan Legislative Assembly. In 1965 he was elected to the Pakistan Constituent Assembly. He was involved in a number of Bengali Nationalist movements including Six point movement, Agartala Conspiracy Case and 1969 uprising in East Pakistan. He was elected to the national assembly of Pakistan.\n\nAli moved to India during Bangladesh Liberation war. On 17 April 1971 he read declaration of independence of Bangladesh at the oath taking ceremony of Mujibnagar Government. In the Mujibnagar Government he was the chairman of Youth Control Board. It recruited and trained personal for the Mukti Bahini. He was the first minister for Education and Cultural Affairs of Bangladesh, Sheikh Mujibur Rahman cabinet. Ali was the speaker of \"Ganaporishad\" (provisional Parliament of Bangladesh) and he made oath of the acting president with ministers of provisional government. He was made the Chairman of Shromik League of BAKSAL (Bangladesh Krishok Shromik Awami League) by Sheikh Mujibur Rahman, then president of Bangladesh. In 1975 he was the Labour Minister in the BAKSAL. In 1975, after the Assassination of Sheikh Mujibur Rahman he joined the Khandakar Mushtaq Ahmed government. He became Minister of Planning of the Khondaker Mostaq Ahmad government.\n\nIn 1977, Ali was the secretary-general Mizanur Rahman Chowdhury fraction of Bangladesh Awami League. He joined the Bangladesh Nationalist Party after a failed parliamentary election. In 1979 he was Minister of Textile in Ziaur Rahman cabinet. In 1981 he was the Minister of Jute and Textile in Justice Abdus Sattar cabinet. He joined Jatiya Party in 1985. In 1986 he served as relief and rehabilitation minister under President Ershad.\n\nAli died in December 1998.\n"}
{"id": "4856714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4856714", "title": "Oliver H. Prince", "text": "Oliver H. Prince\n\nOliver Hillhouse Prince (1787October 9, 1837) was an editor, attorney and politician, elected as United States Senator by the Georgia state legislature in 1828. Born in Connecticut, he had migrated as a child with his parents to Georgia, where he grew up. After working as a journalist and attorney, he was elected to the state senate. He prepared \"A Digest of the Laws of the State of Georgia\" (1822), for 30 years the most important collection of the laws.\n\nIn 1830 Prince left the law to become editor of the \"Georgia Journal,\" returning to early work in journalism. With his multi-faceted career, he was describe as \"one of the brilliant figures of Georgia in the first half of the nineteenth century\". He and his wife died on October 9, 1837 in the wreck of the \"SS Home,\" grounded near Ocracoke Inlet, North Carolina, during Racer's Storm. This was the first hurricane recorded as attacking both the Gulf and Atlantic coasts.\n\nBorn in Montville, Connecticut in 1787, Oliver Hillhouse Prince completed his first studies locally. In 1796 he moved with his parents to Georgia, where they settled in Washington, Wilkes County. His mother's Hillhouse family included ancestors who were judges and her brother James Hillhouse was a US Senator. Oliver's maternal uncle David Hillhouse had already settled in the state when his parents moved there.\n\nPrince later engaged in newspaper work as an assistant editor for \"The Monitor,\" a Wilkes County newspaper, from 1803 to 1806. Tradition has it that Prince wrote many humorous articles as a young man during this period. But in files of the Monitor, there are no humorous articles attributed to Prince. In fact, nowhere in the surviving issues of the paper is there any other item that might fairly be described as a \"humorous sketch.\" However, he was described by 20th-century historians as \"remarkably gifted with the literary instinct which he possessed with the most delicious sense of humor.\" At the same time, he \"read the law.\" At age 19 in 1806, he gained admission to the bar by special act of the legislature, as he was under age. He began his practice in Macon.\n\nIn 1817 Prince married Mary Ross Norman of Lincoln County, Georgia, who was eighteen, a typical age of marriage for young Georgia women. Their first two children died young in 1822, and they moved to newly established Bibb County, Georgia. They had three more children: Virginia (b. 1825), another daughter and son Oliver H. Prince, Jr.\n\nPrince became active in politics as an adult. As an attorney, he traveled around Georgia's Northern Circuit for 16 years with circuit judges for court sessions in log cabins and other makeshift sites throughout the state. His work helped him establish a broad network.\n\nIn 1819 he was commissioned by the state legislature to compile a digest of Georgia law. After two years of research and work, he produced \"A Digest of the Laws of the State of Georgia\" (1822). It quickly was put into use and is considered a classic, filled with notes, a list of repealed statutes and a valuable discussion of \"habeas corpus\". A second and larger edition was published in 1837 after his death. His work was considered a landmark achievement. It was the \"most important collection of Georgia laws until 1851,\" when Thomas R.R. Cobb published a new compilation.\n\nIn early 1823 Prince was one of five commissioners selected to lay out the town of Macon. He was elected to the State senate in 1824.\n\nIn 1828 he was elected by the state legislature to the U.S. Senate in a special election to fill the vacancy caused by the resignation of Thomas W. Cobb. He served from November 7, 1828 to March 3, 1829 as a Jacksonian Democrat, supporting the president in the Indian Removal Act of 1830. This authorized the government to remove the tribes especially from the Southeast to Indian Territory west of the Mississippi River. All the Five Civilized Tribes were affected in this removal, and they lost many members in the harsh conditions of their journeys.\n\nPrince later worked again as an editor. He presided over the first railroad convention in Georgia, and was one of the first stockholders and directors of the Georgia Railroad, critical to developing infrastructure in the state.\n\nHe abandoned the practice of law in 1832 and moved with his wife to Milledgeville, then the state capital. He purchased and became the editor of the \"Georgia Journal,\" an influential newspaper.\n\nHe sold the journal in 1835, retiring with his family at the age of 48 to a 450-acre farm he bought in Athens, Georgia. Their son Oliver, Jr. attended a preparatory school in Gwinnett County, Georgia.\n\nPrince and his wife left in May 1837 for a trip to New York and Boston, where he worked with his publisher for some months preparing the second edition of his \"Law Digest\" for publication. They missed their children and were looking forward to their return. After sailing from New York on October 7, 1837, both Prince and his wife died in the wreck of the steam packet ship \"SS Home,\" which was caught in Racer's Storm, a destructive hurricane that hit both the Gulf and Atlantic coasts. Although the ship had been converted for ocean going, it carried only three lifeboats and two life preservers. It grounded near Ocracoke Inlet, North Carolina on October 8, 1837 and broke up the next day. The ship was 537 tons, 220 feet long and 22 feet wide. The remains of the estimated 90 victims, mostly women and children, were never recovered. Years later, the three Prince children erected a cenotaph in Rose Hill Cemetery in Macon in their parents' honor.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14236625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14236625", "title": "Personality systematics", "text": "Personality systematics\n\nPersonality systematics is a contribution to the psychology of personality and to psychotherapy summarized by Jeffrey J. Magnavita in 2006 and 2009. It is the study of the interrelationships among subsystems of personality as they are embedded in the entire ecological system. The model falls into the category of complex, biopsychosocial approaches to personality. The term personality systematics was originally coined by William Grant Dahlstrom in 1972.\n\nSystems psychology has emerged here as a new approach in which groups and individuals, are considered as systems in homeostasis. Within open systems they have an active method of remaining stable through the dynamic relationship between parts. A classic example of this homeostatic dynamic is the \"problem behavior\" of a bed wetting child having a stabilizing function of holding a troubled marriage together because the attention of the parents is drawn away from their conflict towards the \"problem\" child.\n\nMore recent developments in systems psychology have challenged this understanding of homeostasis as being too focused on causal understanding of systems. This change in thought from 1st order cybernetics to 2nd order cybernetics involved a postmodern shift in understanding of reality as objective to being socially and linguistically constructed.\n\nFamily systems therapy received an important boost in the mid-1950s through the work of anthropologist Gregory Bateson and colleagues – Jay Haley, Donald D. Jackson, John Weakland, William Fry, and later, Virginia Satir, Paul Watzlawick and others – at Palo Alto in the US, who introduced ideas from cybernetics and general systems theory into social psychology and psychotherapy, focusing in particular on the role of communication. This approach eschewed the traditional focus on individual psychology and historical factors – that involve so-called linear causation and content – and emphasized instead feedback and homeostatic mechanisms and “rules” in here-and-now interactions – so-called circular causation and process – that were thought to maintain or exacerbate problems, whatever the original cause(s).\n\nRelational psychoanalysis began in the 1980s as an attempt to integrate interpersonal psychoanalysis's emphasis on the detailed exploration of interpersonal interactions with British object relations theory's sophisticated ideas about the psychological importance of internalized relationships with other people. Relationalists argue that personality emerges from the matrix of early formative relationships with parents and other figures. Philosophically, relational psychoanalysis is closely allied with social constructionism.\n\nPersonality systematics seeks to establish the underlying processes within the domains of the larger system. The domains range from what can be observed from the microlevel to the macrolevel domains.\n\nPersonality can be conceptualized as an emergent phenomena of the convergent forces and their expressions which can be compared to a holographic representation. Personality systematics is based on a holistic model of functioning which considers part-whole relationships as being essential to understanding complex self-organizing systems.\n\nThe model describes four levels of the personality system:\n\nThis model has been used in treating complex clinical syndromes, personality dysfunction, and relational disturbances. To enhance efficacy and range, new methods are used, such as audiovisual recording and physiological measurements, galvanic skin response, heart rate variability, and other forms of bio- and neuro-feedback.\n\n"}
{"id": "2432279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2432279", "title": "Peter Woodcock", "text": "Peter Woodcock\n\nDavid Michael Krueger (March 5, 1939 – March 5, 2010), best known by his birth name, Peter Woodcock, was a Canadian serial killer, child rapist and diagnosed psychopath. He gained notoriety for the murders of three young children in Toronto in the late 1950s, as well as for a murder in 1991 on his first day of unsupervised release from the psychiatric institution in which he was incarcerated for his earlier crimes.\n\nAn adopted child, Krueger lived in numerous foster homes as an infant, and showed signs of severe emotional trauma when he found a permanent foster home at the age of 3. Unable to adjust to social situations, he was bullied by his peers. He would often wander from his home by foot, bicycle or train to parts of Toronto where he would molest dozens, and ultimately murder three young children. Found not guilty by reason of insanity for his crimes, he was sent to a psychiatric facility. Experimental treatment programs for psychopathy tried with him proved ineffective when he murdered a fellow psychiatric patient in 1991; after his death in 2010, he was described in the \"Toronto Star\" as \"the serial killer they couldn't cure.\"\n\nPeter Woodcock was born in Peterborough, Ontario to a 17-year-old factory worker, Waita Woodcock, who gave him up for adoption after breastfeeding him for a month. Adoption agency records report that the newborn, Peter, showed feeding problems and cried constantly. As an infant, he stayed in various foster homes, unable to bond with any of his foster parents. After his first birthday, he became terrified of anybody approaching him, and his speech was incoherent—described as strange whining animal noises. He was also physically abused by at least one of his early foster parents, with a 2-year-old Woodcock having to be given medical treatment for an injured neck after receiving a beating. He was placed into a stable home at the age of 3, to foster parents Frank and Susan Maynard – an upper-middle-class couple with another son. Susan Maynard, who was described as a \"forceful woman with an exaggerated sense of propriety\", became strongly attached to the maladjusted child who would still scream when someone approached him. By the age of 5, Woodcock would no longer scream when approached, but he remained a strange child and became the target of neighbourhood bullies. He often wandered far away from his neighbourhood, once being found cowering in some bushes, in an attempt to hide from other children.\n\nWorried about the child's fragile emotional state, Frank and Susan Maynard would regularly bring him to the Hospital for Sick Children, where Woodcock received extensive treatment. Woodcock was sent to a private school, but again failed to make friends or interact successfully with his peers and remained isolated. By the age of 11, he was described as an \"angry little boy\"; a Children's Aid Society report on him from that time read:\n\nSigns of Woodcock's violent fantasies were present at this time also, seen when a social worker was walking with him at the Canadian National Exhibition and Woodcock muttered, \"I wish a bomb would fall on the Exhibition and kill all the children\". Woodcock was sent to a school for emotionally disturbed children in Kingston, Ontario, and began acting on his strong sexual urges with other children – with Woodcock stating that here he had consensual intercourse with a 12-year-old girl when he was 13. When he turned 15, he was discharged from this school and returned to live with his foster parents, but was soon re-enrolled at his original private school, where he again failed to connect with his peers. At the age of 16, he left the private school again and was sent to a public high school, where children from the neighborhood instantly recognized him and resumed the bullying; he transferred to a private high school six weeks later. While his peers again shunned him, his teachers there remembered him as a very bright student who excelled in science, history, and English, and who frequently scored 100 percent on his tests.\n\nPeter Woodcock's prized possession was a red and white Schwinn bicycle on which he satisfied his continuing compulsion to wander. He rode the bike to the far reaches of the city—even during the deep, cold Toronto winters—and evolved a fantasy in which he led a gang of 500 invisible boys on bikes called the 'Winchester Heights Gang'. His foster parents were aware of this fantasy and his compulsion to wander, but they were unaware that he had begun traveling around Toronto on his bike and sexually assaulting children.\n\nOn September 15, 1956, Woodcock was riding his bike around the grounds of the Exhibition Place when he met 7-year-old Wayne Mallette. He lured the boy out of sight and then proceeded to strangle him to death. Mallette's body was found in the early hours of September 16. He was dressed in a British schoolboy blazer, shirt and plaid trousers. It appeared that his clothing had been removed and he had then been re-dressed. His face was pushed into the dirt and two bite marks were found on the body — one on the boy's calf and the other on his buttock. There was no evidence of rape, however. Pennies were found ritualistically scattered near the body and someone had defecated next to the victim as well.\n\nOn October 6, 1956, Woodcock was riding his bike around Cabbagetown when he picked up 9-year-old Gary Morris. He then drove the boy to Cherry Beach, where he strangled and beat him to death - with a coroner later determining that Morris had died from a ruptured liver. Morris' body was found with a bite mark on his throat and this time paper clips seemed to have been ritualistically sprinkled near the corpse. Again, the clothing had been removed from the victim and then he had been re-dressed.\n\nOn January 19, 1957, Woodcock was riding his bike when he approached 4-year-old Carole Voyce and offered her a ride. He then drove her under the Bloor Viaduct and murdered her. When she was found, her clothes had been pulled off. It appeared that she had been choked into unconsciousness and sexually molested, and that her death was caused by a tree branch being forcibly inserted into her vagina.\n\nWitnesses saw a teenager cycling away from Carole Voyce's crime scene, and an accurate composite sketch was created based on those witnesses' descriptions. This sketch ran on the front page of the \"Toronto Star\" and would lead to Woodcock's arrest on January 21, 1957, and his subsequent confession to all three murders. He recalled upon his arrest: \"My fear was that Mother would find out. Mother was my biggest fear. I didn't know if the police would let her at me.\"\n\nWoodcock was tried only for the murder of Carole Voyce. On April 11, 1957, after a four-day trial, he was found not guilty by reason of insanity and was sent to the Oak Ridge division of the maximum-security Penetanguishene Mental Health Centre in Penetanguishene, Ontario.\n\nWhile imprisoned, Woodcock was diagnosed as a psychopath. He underwent various forms of psychiatric therapy, including LSD treatments when they were popular in the 1960s. He was also given other personality-breaking drugs: scopolamine, sodium amytal, methedrine and dexamyl. He was subjected to \"dyads\" — a personality-breaking therapy in which inmates challenged each other's belief systems — which inmates referred to as \"The Hundred-Day Hate-In\". Dyads were developed in the late 1950s to early 1960s by a Harvard psychologist and former CIA interrogation and psychological warfare expert, Henry A. Murray. In the 1960s, one of Murray's volunteer personality-destruction subjects had been a young Harvard student—Ted Kaczynski, the future Unabomber. Woodcock did not respond well to these treatments, and was not an ideal prisoner. He engaged in coercive sexual acts and exploited his fellow inmates, who were often less intelligent or less sane than he was. He formed an imaginary gang, the Brotherhood. He convinced inmates that he had contact with the mythical group on the outside, and that in order to be initiated, inmates had to perform oral sex on him and bring him gifts of cigarettes.\n\nWoodcock was eventually transferred to less restrictive institutions, and ultimately arrived at the Brockville Psychiatric Hospital. Here, staff indulged his passion for trains by taking him to the Smiths Falls Railway Museum, and even took him to see \"The Silence of the Lambs\". During this time, he legally changed his name to David Michael Krueger and rekindled a relationship with Bruce Hamill, an Ottawa killer who had been released from Oak Ridge and was working as a security guard at the Ottawa courthouse. Krueger convinced Hamill an alien brotherhood would solve his problems if he helped kill another Brockville inmate, Dennis Kerr.\n\nOn July 13, 1991, Bruce Hamill went to a hardware store, bought a plumber's wrench, hatchet, knives and a sleeping bag, then went to the Brockville hospital and signed out Krueger on his first publicly escorted day pass. During the first hour of his first weekend pass (unsupervised release) in 34 years, Krueger arranged to meet Dennis Kerr in the woods near Brockville where Krueger would loan Kerr five hundred dollars. When Dennis Kerr arrived as instructed, Krueger struck him in the head with the pipe wrench and continued to beat him into unconsciousness. Krueger and Hamill then seized the hatchet and knife they had hidden in the bushes while waiting for Kerr's arrival and hacked and stabbed Kerr, mutilating his body, cutting it open, and nearly severing his head. Drenched in Kerr's blood, they then stripped themselves naked and sodomized the corpse. Krueger then left the scene, walked to a police station about two miles away, and turned himself in.\n\nFor the murder of Dennis Kerr, Krueger was transferred back to the Oak Ridge division of the Penetanguishene Mental Health Centre, where he had spent the majority of his 34 preceding years in custody. In the years after Kerr's murder, he was the focus of a biography and several documentary films and sometimes tried to explain why he killed, but he never came up with rational reasons. He said in a 1993 interview: \"I'm accused of having no morality, which is a fair assessment, because my morality is whatever the system allows.\" On March 5, 2010, his 71st birthday, Krueger died of natural causes.\n\n\nFootnotes\nBibliography\n"}
{"id": "3099997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3099997", "title": "Protein poisoning", "text": "Protein poisoning\n\nProtein poisoning (also referred to colloquially as rabbit starvation, mal de caribou, or fat starvation) is a rare form of acute malnutrition thought to be caused by a near complete absence of fat in the diet.\n\nExcess protein is sometimes cited as the cause of this condition, however when meat and fat are consumed in the correct ratio, such as that found in pemmican (which is 50% fat by volume), the diet is considered nutritionally complete and can support humans for months or more. Other stressors, such as severe cold or a dry environment, may intensify symptoms or decrease time to onset. Symptoms include diarrhea, headache, fatigue, low blood pressure, slow heart rate, and a vague discomfort and hunger (very similar to a food craving) that can be satisfied only by the consumption of fat.\n\nProtein poisoning was first noted as a consequence of eating rabbit meat exclusively, hence the term, \"rabbit starvation\". Rabbit meat is very lean; commercial rabbit meat has 50–100 g dissectable fat per 2 kg (live weight). Based on a carcass yield of 60%, rabbit meat is around 8.3% fat while beef and pork are 32% fat and lamb 28%.\n\nGiven the lack of scientific data on the effects of high-protein diets, the US Food and Nutrition Board does not set a tolerable upper intake level nor upper acceptable macronutrient distribution range for protein.\n\nIn U.S. Military Arctic Light Infantry Training (ALIT), it is taught that rabbit takes more vitamins to digest than it returns. It is recommended in survival situations to refrain from eating at all if rabbit is the only thing to eat. Though, instead of eating the meat (which consumes your fat and vitamins), you could simply boil the rabbit meat to extract the fat and some minerals and vitamins (some vitamins will be destroyed by temperature). \n\nThe Arctic explorer Vilhjalmur Stefansson, who experienced rabbit starvation himself, wrote:\nThe groups that depend on the blubber animals are the most fortunate in the hunting way of life, for they never suffer from fat-hunger. This trouble is worst, so far as North America is concerned, among those forest Indians who depend at times on rabbits, the leanest animal in the North, and who develop the extreme fat-hunger known as rabbit-starvation. Rabbit eaters, if they have no fat from another source—beaver, moose, fish—will develop diarrhea in about a week, with headache, lassitude and vague discomfort. If there are enough rabbits, the people eat till their stomachs are distended; but no matter how much they eat they feel unsatisfied. Some think a man will die sooner if he eats continually of fat-free meat than if he eats nothing, but this is a belief on which sufficient evidence for a decision has not been gathered in the North. Deaths from rabbit-starvation, or from the eating of other skinny meat, are rare; for everyone understands the principle, and any possible preventive steps are naturally taken.\n\nDuring the Greely Arctic Expedition 1881–1884, a harrowing experience of 25 expedition members, of whom 19 died, Stefansson refers to \"'rabbit starvation' which is now to me the key to the Greely problem,\" which was why \"only six came back.\" He concludes that one of the reasons for the many deaths was cannibalism of the lean flesh of members who had already died. Stefansson likens this to rabbit starvation, which he explains somewhat as in the above quoted observation.\n\nCharles Darwin, in \"The Voyage of the Beagle\", wrote:\nWe were here able to buy some biscuit. I had now been several days without tasting any thing besides meat: I did not at all dislike this new regimen; but I felt as if it would only have agreed with me with hard exercise. I have heard that patients in England, when desired to confine themselves exclusively to an animal diet, even with the hope of life before their eyes, have hardly been able to endure it. Yet the Gaucho in the Pampas, for months together, touches nothing but beef. But they eat, I observe, a very large proportion of fat, which is of a less animalized nature; and they particularly dislike dry meat, such as that of the agouti. Dr. Richardson, also, has remarked, “that when people have fed for a long time solely upon lean animal food, the desire for fat becomes so insatiable, that they can consume a large quantity of unmixed and even oily fat without nausea:” this appears to me a curious physiological fact. It is, perhaps, from their meat regimen that the Gauchos, like other carnivorous animals, can abstain long from food. I was told that at Tandeel, some troops voluntarily pursued a party of Indians for three days, without eating or drinking.\n\nIn \"Into the Wild\" (1996), Jon Krakauer conjectured that Chris McCandless might have suffered from rabbit starvation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14551660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14551660", "title": "Religious stratification", "text": "Religious stratification\n\nReligious stratification is the division of a society into hierarchical layers on the basis of religious beliefs, affiliation, or faith practices. \n\nAccording to Kingsley Davis and Wilbert E. Moore, \"[t]he reason why religion is necessary is apparently to be found in the fact that human society achieves its unity primarily through the possession by its members of certain ultimate values and ends in common\". Furthermore, Davis and Moore contend that it is \"the role of religious belief and ritual to supply and reinforce this appearance of reality\" that these \"certain ultimate values\" have. This is one possible explanation for why religion is one of the underlying factors which links various forms of inequality into a chain of stratification.\n\nBroadly defined, social stratification is constituted by the division of a society into hierarchical layers of wealth, power, and prestige. These layers, or strata, have been related to a variety of social categories, such as:\n\n\nSociologists have paid attention to stratification based on race, class, gender, and ethnicity. Religion is closely tied to ethnic affiliation. Research suggests that religious stratification deserves more attention than it usually gets. It is a common development in religiously diverse societies. Once it becomes embedded in societies' laws, customs, and ideologies, it tends to persist. It also has societal consequences. Thus, it is important in its own right, but also in relation to other forms of stratification.\n\nSociologists James D. Davidson and Ralph E. Pyle (2011) argue that religious stratification emerged during America's colonial period, as a result of religious ethnocentrism, religious competition, and unequal resources. They show that Anglicans, Congregationalists, and Presbyterians were over-represented among the economic, political, and educational elites. Other Protestant groups, Catholics, Jews, and people with no religious preference ranked much lower in status. \n\nThe ranking of religious groups has changed in some ways over the course of U.S. history (Davidson and Pyle 2011, Pyle 1996). Most notably, Jews have risen into the upper stratum, while Catholics have climbed into the upper-middle stratum. However, religious stratification persists. For example, Anglicans (now Episcopalians), Congregationalists (now United Church of Christ), and Presbyterians remain in the upper stratum, and other Protestants groups such as Baptists (who ranked low in the colonial period) still have not experienced much upward mobility. \n\nThese developments are linked to inter-religious power struggles related to membership size, organizational capacity, and resources. The struggles affect societal laws, ideologies, and customs. In the colonial period, religious stratification was justified by law: Congregationalists were the \"established\" church in New England colonies; Anglicans were the \"established\" church in southern colonies. The First and Fourteenth Amendments, along with other civil rights laws, have knocked the legal foundation out from under religious stratification. The pro-Protestant ideology that emerged in the colonial period has been tempered somewhat by multiculturalism, but it remains an integral part of American culture. Religious groups that have adapted most to this ideology have experienced more mobility than other groups. Colonial elites also have developed a number of customs, such as church-sponsored preparatory schools, private colleges, universities, and legacy admissions that have perpetuated their prominence (Coe and Davidson 2011). Another custom has been the tendency to appoint other religious elites to political office (Davidson, Kraus, and Morrissey 2005). Jews and Catholics have developed customs of their own, such as parochial schools and business ownership, that have contributed to improvements in their social status.\n\nContrary to Davis and Moore's argument that stratification is functional for society, Davidson and Pyle (2011) argue that religious stratification destabilizes society. It produces social problems, like religious hate crimes, that would not otherwise exist.\n\nAccording to Evelyn L. Lehrer religion has a significant impact on marital stability, the choice of marital partner, fertility, women's work at home and in the labor market, education, wages and wealth, and the timing of entry into first union and the choice of whether to cohabit. In her research there are many instances in which stratification is the byproduct of religious faith practices. Stratification based on religion is evident specifically in the realm of economics.\nOne case in point is the presence of women in the work force. Lehrer explains \"The Mormon and conservative Protestant faiths make a sharp distinction between male and female social and economic roles, encouraging the traditional division of labor within the household when young children are present\" (713). Depending on the socioeconomic class of the family, the expectation of the woman to adhere to these traditional social roles could be a factor by which the economic advancement of the family is limited. \nCited within Lehrer's book are studies which examine levels of education, wages, and wealth among different religious faiths. Lehrer writes in her book, \"A conservative Protestant upbringing may be associated with an authoritarian approach to knowledge and a rejection of critical inquiry and unconventional modes of thinking, implying lower levels of certain types of home investments in child quality\" (716). This was derived from the work of Sherkat and Darnell published in 1999. Also based on the work of Sherkat and Darnell published in 1997, is Lehrer's assertion that conservative Protestant parents \"often discourage their children from taking college preparatory courses, out of a concern that such courses may be harmful to them\" (716). Lehrer, as a result, contends that children raised by conservative Protestant parents \"often acquire less human capital in their formative years and may thus be less able to benefit from college\" (716). So, as the topic is quite well developed, educational inequality is well researched and there is much evidence concerning the impact that an individual's level of education can have in terms of the hierarchy of stratification. It seems however that there can be seen another factor which should be allowed for in terms of determining the lines of stratification. Perhaps the significant impact that education plays in inequality can be even better understood when religion is controlled for. \n\nOther works which have investigated religious stratification include that of Gaetano Mosca whose research was published in his The Ruling Class. Although this work was published in the late 1930s the concept that is brought forth is interesting to note and is perhaps still quite relevant in contemporary times. Mosca states that \"In societies in which religious beliefs are strong and ministers of the faith form a special class a priestly aristocracy almost always arises and gains possession of a more or less important share of the wealth and the political power.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49430", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49430", "title": "Robert Abercromby (Jesuit)", "text": "Robert Abercromby (Jesuit)\n\nFather Robert Abercromby (1536 – 27 April 1613), whose surname was also spelled as Abrecromby and Abercrombie, and was known by such pseudonyms as Robert Sandiesoun and Sanders Robertson, was a Scottish Jesuit missionary.\n\nHe was born and educated in Scotland, and studied in the Collegium Romanum in Rome, where on 19 August 1563 he became a Jesuit. From 1564 he lived in Braunsberg (then in Royal Prussia; present-day Braniewo, Poland) where he was professor of grammar in the biggest Polish Jesuit \"collegium\" (where teaching was in Latin) and a novice master.\n\nIn 1565 he was ordained a priest. In Braniewo he was in constant contact with Cardinal Stanislaus Hosius. He was considered a good priest, but learning Polish was difficult for him, and he had some problems with the finances of the school. Due to these problems he was permitted to leave Poland in 1580, when he met the Scottish king for the first time. In September 1580 he went back to Poland - from 1580–87 he performed similar tasks in Kraków, Poznań and Wilno.\n\nIn 1587 he left Poland and returned to Scotland. During the journey to Scotland in 1580 and during his second stay there he was organizing transports of Scottish Catholic novices to be trained in Polish schools and seminaries.\n\nAbercromby claimed that he had reconciled Anne of Denmark, queen of James VI of Scotland, to the Catholic Church. James apparently allowed Abercromby to meet her at Holyroodhouse circa 1599. She made no outward sign of a change of religion.\n\nAbercromby remained in Scotland for some time, but a price of 10,000 crowns was put upon his head. He spent the period 1601–06 under the protection of George Gordon, 1st Marquess of Huntly.\n\nAbercromby went back to Braunsberg in 1606. His name was connected to the allegiance oath controversy when a pamphlet \"pasquil\", \"Exetasis epistolæ nomine regis\", written under the pseudonym Bartholus Pacenius against James I was traced to Braunsberg; but the investigation by Patrick Gordon was inconclusive. He died there on 27 April 1613.\n\n"}
{"id": "7578350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7578350", "title": "Rouvaun", "text": "Rouvaun\n\nRouvaun (1932–1975) was born Jim Haun in Bingham, Utah. A child singer with the Mormon Tabernacle Choir in Salt Lake City, he went on to study voice at the Los Angeles Conservatory of Music and perform with the Beverly Hills Opera Company. Nonetheless, he remained a struggling woodworker studying voice. Rouvaun was a virtual unknown until February 5, 1967, when he appeared in Las Vegas as the headline singer leading the 100-person Frederick Apcar French stage review Casino De Paris at the Dunes Hotel. His first record label, KALAMO, described him on his debut album cover as \"The World's Greatest Singer\".\n\nNicknamed \"The Vocal Vesuvius\", Rouvaun continued performing on stage to sellout crowds and recorded a number of albums (see below). His career seemed to be blossoming until tragedy struck in 1975, when Rouvaun collapsed and died at age 43 due to massive internal hemorrhaging. Apparently the strain on his vocal cords had caused his esophagus to rupture.\n\nRouvaun's rise to stardom was not by accident. His first vocal coach was Mario Chamlee, a famed tenor among the many who tried to succeed Enrico Caruso at the Metropolitan Opera in the 1920s. Rouvaun then studied with Mario Silva, acclaimed voice coach of Mario Lanza. His singing career led to big city and foreign concerts. His hobbies included foreign cars, riding his motorcycle, target shooting, listening to jazz, and painting landscapes and seascapes in oil. He was marketed and promoted by Tony Alamo, who later became a notorious Christian minister. Rouvaun had a potential movie contract in the works to star in the life story of Mario Lanza and had the approval of the Lanza family, although the movie with Rouvaun never happened. Rouvaun's RCA Victor contract called for several long play records and singles to be recorded and released yearly.\n\nHe left behind a wife and children. One son, Jimmy Haun, went on to become guitarist with the rock group Air Supply. Jimmy Haun's daughter and Rouvaun's granddaughter is the television actress Lindsey Haun (born 1984). Rouvaun can be seen and heard here on television and audio clips. An official Rouvaun website put up by Rouvaun's family no longer exists, but a Rouvaun tribute website can still be found on Myspace featuring Rouvaun's music, biography and many photographs from his career (including his stint at the Dunes).\n\nA Rouvaun Fan Club existed with many chapters, and comedian Jack Benny was President of the Burbank Chapter, according to program notes on the Rouvaun Album \"From the Heart of a Man\".\n\nTelevision appearances:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45315837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45315837", "title": "Sleep in space", "text": "Sleep in space\n\nSleeping in space requires that astronauts sleep in a crew cabin, a small room about the size of a shower stall. They lie in a sleeping bag which is strapped to the wall. Astronauts have reported having nightmares, dreams, and snoring while sleeping in space.\n\nSleeping and crew accommodations need to be well ventilated; otherwise, astronauts can wake up oxygen-deprived and gasping for air, because a bubble of their own exhaled carbon dioxide had formed around their heads. Brain cells are extremely sensitive to a lack of oxygen and brain cells can start dying less than 5 minutes after their oxygen supply disappears; the result is that brain hypoxia can rapidly cause severe brain damage or even death. A decrease of oxygen to the brain can cause dementia and brain damage, as well as a host of other symptoms.\n\nIn the early 21st century, crew on the ISS were said to average about six hours of sleep per day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28387", "title": "Spirituality", "text": "Spirituality\n\nThe meaning of spirituality has developed and expanded over time, and various connotations can be found alongside each other. \n\nTraditionally, spirituality referred to a religious process of re-formation which \"aims to recover the original shape of man\", oriented at \"the image of God\" as exemplified by the founders and sacred texts of the religions of the world. The term was used within early Christianity to refer to a life oriented toward the Holy Spirit and broadened during late medieval times to include mental aspects of life.\n\nIn modern times the term both spread to other religious traditions and broadened to refer to a wider range of experience, including a range of esoteric traditions and religious traditions. Modern usages tend to refer to a subjective experience of a sacred dimension and the \"deepest values and meanings by which people live\", often in a context separate from organized religious institutions, such as a belief in a supernatural (beyond the known and observable) realm, personal growth, a quest for an ultimate or sacred meaning, religious experience, or an encounter with one's own \"inner dimension\". \n\nThe term spirit means \"animating or vital principle in man and animals\". It is derived from the Old French \"espirit\", which comes from the Latin word \"spiritus\" (soul, courage, vigor, breath) and is related to \"spirare\" (to breathe). In the Vulgate the Latin word \"spiritus\" is used to translate the Greek \"pneuma\" and Hebrew \"ruah\".\n\nThe term \"spiritual\", matters \"concerning the spirit\", is derived from Old French \"spirituel\" (12c.), which is derived from Latin \"spiritualis\", which comes from \"spiritus\" or \"spirit\".\n\nThe term \"spirituality\" is derived from Middle French \"spiritualité\", from Late Latin \"spiritualitatem\" (nominative spiritualitas), which is also derived from Latin \"spiritualis\".\n\nThere is no single, widely agreed upon definition of spirituality. Surveys of the definition of the term, as used in scholarly research, show a broad range of definitions with limited overlap. A survey of reviews by McCarroll each dealing with the topic of spirituality gave twenty-seven explicit definitions, among which \"there was little agreement.\" This impedes the systematic study of spirituality and the capacity to communicate findings meaningfully. Furthermore, many of spirituality's core features are not unique to spirituality; for example self-transcendence, asceticism and the recognition of one's connection to all were regarded by the atheist Arthur Schopenhauer as key to ethical life.\n\nAccording to Kees Waaijman, the traditional meaning of spirituality is a process of re-formation which \"aims to recover the original shape of man, the image of God. To accomplish this, the re-formation is oriented at a mold, which represents the original shape: in Judaism the Torah, in Christianity there is Christ, for Buddhism, Buddha, and in Islam, Muhammad.\" Houtman and Aupers suggest that modern spirituality is a blend of humanistic psychology, mystical and esoteric traditions and Eastern religions.\n\nIn modern times the emphasis is on subjective experience and the \"deepest values and meanings by which people live,\" incorporating personal growth or transformation, usually in a context separate from organized religious institutions.\n\nWords translatable as 'spirituality' first began to arise in the 5th century and only entered common use toward the end of the Middle Ages. In a Biblical context the term means being animated by God, to be driven by the Holy Spirit, as opposed to a life which rejects this influence.\n\nIn the 11th century this meaning changed. Spirituality began to denote the mental aspect of life, as opposed to the material and sensual aspects of life, \"the ecclesiastical sphere of light against the dark world of matter\". In the 13th century \"spirituality\" acquired a social and psychological meaning. Socially it denoted the territory of the clergy: \"The ecclesiastical against the temporary possessions, the ecclesiastical against the secular authority, the clerical class against the secular class\" Psychologically, it denoted the realm of the inner life: \"The purity of motives, affections, intentions, inner dispositions, the psychology of the spiritual life, the analysis of the feelings\".\n\nIn the 17th and 18th century a distinction was made between higher and lower forms of spirituality: \"A spiritual man is one who is Christian 'more abundantly and deeper than others'.\" The word was also associated with mysticism and quietism, and acquired a negative meaning.\n\nModern notions of spirituality developed throughout the 19th and 20th century, mixing Christian ideas with Western esoteric traditions and elements of Asian, especially Indian, religions. Spirituality became increasingly disconnected from traditional religious organisations and institutions. It is sometimes associated today with philosophical, social, or political movements such as liberalism, feminist theology, and green politics. \nRalph Waldo Emerson (1803–1882) was a pioneer of the idea of spirituality as a distinct field. He was one of the major figures in Transcendentalism, an early 19th-century liberal Protestant movement, which was rooted in English and German Romanticism, the Biblical criticism of Johann Gottfried Herder and Friedrich Schleiermacher, the skepticism of Hume, and Neo-Platonism.\nThe Transcendentalists emphasised an intuitive, experiential approach of religion. Following Schleiermacher, an individual's intuition of truth was taken as the criterion for truth. In the late 18th and early 19th century, the first translations of Hindu texts appeared, which were also read by the Transcendentalists, and influenced their thinking. They also endorsed universalist and Unitarianist ideas, leading to Unitarian Universalism, the idea that there must be truth in other religions as well, since a loving God would redeem all living beings, not just Christians.\n\nA major influence on modern spirituality was the Theosophical Society, which searched for 'secret teachings' in Asian religions. It has been influential on modernist streams in several Asian religions, notably Neo-Vedanta, the revival of Theravada Buddhism, and Buddhist modernism, which have taken over modern western notions of personal experience and universalism and integrated them in their religious concepts. A second, related influence was Anthroposophy, whose founder, Rudolf Steiner, was particularly interested in developing a genuine Western spirituality, and in the ways that such a spirituality could transform practical institutions such as education, agriculture, and medicine.\n\nThe influence of Asian traditions on western modern spirituality was also furthered by the Perennial Philosophy, whose main proponent Aldous Huxley was deeply influenced by Swami Vivekananda's Neo-Vedanta and Universalism, and the spread of social welfare, education and mass travel after World War Two.\n\nAn important influence on western spirituality was Neo-Vedanta, also called \"neo-Hinduism\" and \"Hindu Universalism\", a modern interpretation of Hinduism which developed in response to western colonialism and orientalism. It aims to present Hinduism as a \"homogenized ideal of Hinduism\" with Advaita Vedanta as its central doctrine. Due to the colonisation of Asia by the western world, since the 19th century an exchange of ideas has been taking place between the western world and Asia, which also influenced western religiosity. Unitarianism, and the idea of Universalism, was brought to India by missionaries, and had a major influence on neo-Hinduism via Ram Mohan Roy's Brahmo Samaj and Brahmoism. Roy attempted to modernise and reform Hinduism, from the idea of Universalism. This universalism was further popularised, and brought back to the west as neo-Vedanta, by Swami Vivekananda.\n\nAfter the Second World War, spirituality and theistic religion became increasingly disconnected, and spirituality became more oriented on subjective experience, instead of \"attempts to place the self within a broader ontological context.\" A new discourse developed, in which (humanistic) psychology, mystical and esoteric traditions and eastern religions are being blended, to reach the true self by self-disclosure, free expression and meditation.\n\nThe distinction between the spiritual and the religious became more common in the popular mind during the late 20th century with the rise of secularism and the advent of the New Age movement. Authors such as Chris Griscom and Shirley MacLaine explored it in numerous ways in their books. Paul Heelas noted the development within New Age circles of what he called \"seminar spirituality\": structured offerings complementing consumer choice with spiritual options.\n\nAmong other factors, declining membership of organized religions and the growth of secularism in the western world have given rise to this broader view of spirituality. Even the secular are finding use for spiritual beliefs. In his books, Michael Mamas makes the case for integrating Eastern spiritual knowledge with Western rational thought.\n\nThe term \"spiritual\" is now frequently used in contexts in which the term \"religious\" was formerly employed. Both theists and atheists have criticized this development.\n\nRabbinic Judaism (or in some Christian traditions, Rabbinism) (Hebrew: \"Yahadut Rabanit\" - יהדות רבנית) has been the mainstream form of Judaism since the 6th century CE, after the codification of the Talmud. It is characterised by the belief that the Written Torah (\"Law\" or \"Instruction\") cannot be correctly interpreted without reference to the Oral Torah and by the voluminous literature specifying what behavior is sanctioned by the law (called halakha, \"the way\").\n\nJudaism knows a variety of religious observances: ethical rules, prayers, religious clothing, holidays, shabbat, pilgrimages, Torah reading, dietary laws, etc.\n\nKabbalah (literally \"receiving\"), is an esoteric method, discipline and school of thought of Judaism. Its definition varies according to the tradition and aims of those following it, from its religious origin as an integral part of Judaism, to its later Christian, New Age, or Occultist syncretic adaptations. Kabbalah is a set of esoteric teachings meant to explain the relationship between an unchanging, eternal and mysterious Ein Sof (no end) and the mortal and finite universe (his creation). While it is heavily used by some denominations, it is not a religious denomination in itself. Inside Judaism, it forms the foundations of mystical religious interpretation. Outside Judaism, its scriptures are read outside the traditional canons of organised religion. Kabbalah seeks to define the nature of the universe and the human being, the nature and purpose of existence, and various other ontological questions. It also presents methods to aid understanding of these concepts and to thereby attain spiritual realisation.\n\nHasidic Judaism, meaning \"piety\" (or \"loving kindness\"), is a branch of Orthodox Judaism that promotes spirituality through the popularisation and internalisation of Jewish mysticism as the fundamental aspect of the faith. It was founded in 18th-century Eastern Europe by Rabbi Israel Baal Shem Tov as a reaction against overly legalistic Judaism. His example began the characteristic veneration of leadership in Hasidism as embodiments and intercessors of Divinity for the followers. Opposite to this, Hasidic teachings cherished the sincerity and concealed holiness of the unlettered common folk, and their equality with the scholarly elite. The emphasis on the Immanent Divine presence in everything gave new value to prayer and deeds of kindness, alongside Rabbinic supremacy of study, and replaced historical mystical (kabbalistic) and ethical (musar) asceticism and admonishment with optimism, encouragement, and daily fervour. This populist emotional revival accompanied the elite ideal of nullification to paradoxical Divine Panentheism, through intellectual articulation of inner dimensions of mystical thought.\n\nCatholic spirituality is the spiritual practice of living out a personal act of faith (\"fides qua creditur\") following the acceptance of faith (\"fides quae creditur\"). Although all Catholics are expected to pray together at Mass, there are many different forms of spirituality and private prayer which have developed over the centuries. Each of the major religious orders of the Catholic Church and other lay groupings have their own unique spirituality - its own way of approaching God in prayer and in living out the Gospel.\n\nChristian mysticism refers to the development of mystical practices and theory within Christianity. It has often been connected to mystical theology, especially in the Catholic and Eastern Orthodox traditions. The attributes and means by which Christian mysticism is studied and practiced are varied and range from ecstatic visions of the soul's mystical union with God to simple prayerful contemplation of Holy Scripture (i.e., \"Lectio Divina\").\n\nProgressive Christianity is a contemporary movement which seeks to remove the supernatural claims of the faith and replace them with a post-critical understanding of biblical spirituality based on historical and scientific research. It focuses on the lived experience of spirituality over historical dogmatic claims, and accepts that the faith is both true and a human construction, and that spiritual experiences are psychologically and neurally real and useful.\n\nThe Pillars of Islam (\"arkan al-Islam\"; also \"arkan ad-din\", \"pillars of religion\") are five basic acts in Islam, considered obligatory for all believers. The Quran presents them as a framework for worship and a sign of commitment to the faith. They are (1) the creed (\"shahadah\"), (2) daily prayers (\"salat\"), (3) almsgiving (\"zakah\"), (4) fasting during Ramadan and (5) the pilgrimage to Mecca (\"hajj\") at least once in a lifetime. The Shia and Sunni sects both agree on the essential details for the performance of these acts.\n\nThe best known form of Islamic mystic spirituality is the Sufi tradition (famous through Rumi and Hafiz) in which a spiritual master or \"pir\" transmits spiritual discipline to students.\n\nSufism or () is defined by its adherents as the inner, mystical dimension of Islam. A practitioner of this tradition is generally known as a \"\" (). Sufis believe they are practicing ihsan (perfection of worship) as revealed by Gabriel to Muhammad, \nSufis consider themselves as the original true proponents of this pure original form of Islam. They are strong adherents to the principal of tolerance, peace and against any form of violence. The Sufi have suffered severe persecution by more rigid and fundamentalist groups such as the Wahhabi and Salafi movement. In 1843 the Senussi Sufi were forced to flee Mecca and Medina and head to Sudan and Libya.\n\nClassical Sufi scholars have defined Sufism as \"a science whose objective is the reparation of the heart and turning it away from all else but God\". Alternatively, in the words of the Darqawi Sufi teacher Ahmad ibn Ajiba, \"a science through which one can know how to travel into the presence of the Divine, purify one's inner self from filth, and beautify it with a variety of praiseworthy traits\".\n\nJihad is a religious duty of Muslims. In Arabic, the word \"jihād\" translates as a noun meaning \"struggle\". There are two commonly accepted meanings of jihad: an inner spiritual struggle and an outer physical struggle. The \"greater jihad\" is the inner struggle by a believer to fulfill his religious duties. This non-violent meaning is stressed by both Muslim and non-Muslim authors.\n\nAl-Khatib al-Baghdadi, an 11th-century Islamic scholar, referenced a statement by the companion of Muhammad, Jabir ibn Abd-Allah:\n\nBuddhist practices are known as Bhavana, which literally means \"development\" or \"cultivating\" or \"producing\" in the sense of \"calling into existence.\" It is an important concept in Buddhist praxis (\"Patipatti\"). The word \"bhavana\" normally appears in conjunction with another word forming a compound phrase such as \"citta-bhavana\" (the development or cultivation of the heart/mind) or \"metta-bhavana\" (the development/cultivation of loving kindness). When used on its own \"bhavana\" signifies 'spiritual cultivation' generally.\n\nVarious Buddhist Paths to liberation developed throughout the ages. Best-known is the Noble Eightfold Path, but others include the Bodhisattva Path and Lamrim.\n\nHinduism has no traditional ecclesiastical order, no centralized religious authorities, no governing body, no prophet(s) nor any binding holy book; Hindus can choose to be polytheistic, pantheistic, monistic, or atheistic. Within this diffuse and open structure, spirituality in Hindu philosophy is an individual experience, and referred to as ksaitrajña (Sanskrit: क्षैत्रज्ञ). It defines spiritual practice as one's journey towards moksha, awareness of self, the discovery of higher truths, true nature of reality, and a consciousness that is liberated and content.\n\nTraditionally, Hinduism identifies three \"mārga\" (ways) of spiritual practice, namely Jñāna, the way of knowledge; Bhakti, the way of devotion; and Karma yoga, the way of selfless action. In the 19th century Vivekananda, in his neo-Vedanta synthesis of Hinduism, added Rāja yoga, the way of contemplation and meditation, as a fourth way, calling all of them \"yoga.\"\n\nJñāna marga is a path often assisted by a \"guru\" (teacher) in one's spiritual practice. Bhakti marga is a path of faith and devotion to deity or deities; the spiritual practice often includes chanting, singing and music - such as in \"kirtans\" - in front of idols, or images of one or more deity, or a devotional symbol of the holy. Karma marga is the path of one's work, where diligent practical work or \"vartta\" (Sanskrit: वार्त्ता, profession) becomes in itself a spiritual practice, and work in daily life is perfected as a form of spiritual liberation and not for its material rewards. Rāja marga is the path of cultivating necessary virtues, self-discipline, \"tapas\" (meditation), contemplation and self-reflection sometimes with isolation and renunciation of the world, to a pinnacle state called \"samādhi\". This state of \"samādhi\" has been compared to peak experience.\n\nThere is a rigorous debate in Indian literature on relative merits of these theoretical spiritual practices. For example, Chandogyopanishad suggests that those who engage in ritualistic offerings to gods and priests will fail in their spiritual practice, while those who engage in \"tapas\" will succeed; Svetasvataropanishad suggests that a successful spiritual practice requires a longing for truth, but warns of becoming 'false ascetic' who go through the mechanics of spiritual practice without meditating on the nature of Self and universal Truths. In the practice of Hinduism, suggest modern era scholars such as Vivekananda, the choice between the paths is up to the individual and a person's proclivities. Other scholars suggest that these Hindu spiritual practices are not mutually exclusive, but overlapping. These four paths of spirituality are also known in Hinduism outside India, such as in Balinese Hinduism, where it is called \"Catur Marga\" (literally: four paths).\n\nDifferent schools of Hinduism encourage different spiritual practices. In Tantric school for example, the spiritual practice has been referred to as \"sādhanā\". It involves initiation into the school, undergoing rituals, and achieving moksha liberation by experiencing union of cosmic polarities. The Hare Krishna school emphasizes bhakti yoga as spiritual practice. In Advaita Vedanta school, the spiritual practice emphasizes jñāna yoga in stages: samnyasa (cultivate virtues), sravana (hear, study), manana (reflect) and dhyana (nididhyasana, contemplate).\n\nSikhism considers spiritual life and secular life to be intertwined: \"In the Sikh Weltanschauung...the temporal world is part of the Infinite Reality and partakes of its characteristics.\" Guru Nanak described living an \"active, creative, and practical life\" of \"truthfulness, fidelity, self-control and purity\" as being higher than a purely contemplative life.\n\nThe 6th Sikh Guru Guru Hargobind re-affirmed that the political/temporal (Miri) and spiritual (Piri) realms are mutually coexistent. According to the 9th Sikh Guru, Tegh Bahadhur, the ideal Sikh should have both Shakti (power that resides in the temporal), and Bhakti (spiritual meditative qualities). This was developed into the concept of the Saint Soldier by the 10th Sikh Guru, Gobind Singh.\n\nAccording to Guru Nanak, the goal is to attain the \"attendant balance of separation-fusion, self-other, action-inaction, attachment-detachment, in the course of daily life\", the polar opposite to a self-centered existence. Nanak talks further about the one God or Akal (timelessness) that permeates all life). and which must be seen with 'the inward eye', or the 'heart', of a human being.\n\nIn Sikhism there is no dogma, priests, monastics or yogis.\n\nIn some African contexts, spirituality is considered a belief system that guides the welfare of society and the people therein, and eradicates sources of unhappiness occasioned by evil.\n\nThe term \"spiritual\" is now frequently used in contexts in which the term \"religious\" was formerly employed. Contemporary spirituality is also called \"post-traditional spirituality\" and \"New Age spirituality\". Hanegraaf makes a distinction between two \"New Age\" movements: New Age in a restricted sense, which originated primarily in mid-twentieth century England and had its roots in Theosophy and Anthroposophy, and \"New Age\" in a general sense, which emerged in the later 1970s\nThose who speak of spirituality outside of religion often define themselves as \"spiritual but not religious\" and generally believe in the existence of different \"spiritual paths,\" emphasizing the importance of finding one's own individual path to spirituality. According to one 2005 poll, about 24% of the United States population identifies itself as spiritual but not religious.\n\nModern spirituality is centered on the \"deepest values and meanings by which people live.\" It embraces the idea of an ultimate or an alleged immaterial reality. It envisions an inner path enabling a person to discover the essence of his/her being.\n\nNot all modern notions of spirituality embrace transcendental ideas. Secular spirituality emphasizes humanistic ideas on moral character (qualities such as love, compassion, patience, tolerance, forgiveness, contentment, responsibility, harmony, and a concern for others). These are aspects of life and human experience which go beyond a purely materialist view of the world without necessarily accepting belief in a supernatural reality or divine being. Nevertheless, many humanists (e.g. Bertrand Russell, Jean-Paul Sartre) who clearly value the non-material, communal and virtuous aspects of life reject this usage of the term spirituality as being overly-broad (i.e. it effectively amounts to saying \"everything and anything that is good and virtuous is \"necessarily\" spiritual\"). In 1930 Russell, a renowned atheist, wrote \"... one's ego is no very large part of the world. The man [sic.] who can center his thoughts and hopes upon something transcending self can find a certain peace in the ordinary troubles of life which is impossible to the pure egoist.\" Similarly, Aristotle—one of the first known Western thinkers to demonstrate that morality, virtue and goodness can be derived without appealing to supernatural forces—even argued that \"men create Gods in their own image\" (not the other way around). Moreover, theistic and atheistic critics alike dismiss the need for the \"secular spirituality\" label on the basis that appears to be nothing more than obscurantism in that i) the term \"spirit\" is commonly taken as denoting the existence of unseen / otherworldly / life-giving forces and ii) words such as morality, philanthropy and humanism already efficiently and succinctly describe the prosocial-orientation and civility that the phrase secular spirituality is meant to convey but without risk of potential confusion that one is referring to something supernatural. \nAlthough personal well-being, both physical and psychological, is said to be an important aspect of modern spirituality, this does not imply spirituality is \"essential\" to achieving happiness (e.g. see). Free-thinkers who reject notions that the numinous/non-material is important to living well can be just as happy as more spiritually-oriented individuals (see)\n\nContemporary spirituality theorists \"assert\" that spirituality develops inner peace and forms a foundation for happiness. For example, meditation and similar practices are suggested to help the practitioner cultivate her/his inner life and character. Ellison and Fan (2008) assert that spirituality \"causes\" a wide array of positive health outcomes, including \"morale, happiness, and life satisfaction.\". However, Schuurmans-Stekhoven (2013) actively attempted to replicate this research and found more \"mixed\" results. Nevertheless, spirituality has played a central role in some self-help movements such as Alcoholics Anonymous:\n\nYet such spiritually-informed treatment approaches have been challenged as pseudoscience, are far from uniformly curative and may for non-believers cause harm (see iatrogenesis).\n\n\"Spiritual experience\" plays a central role in modern spirituality. This notion has been popularised by both western and Asian authors. Important early 20th century western writers who studied the phenomenon of spirituality, and their works, include William James, \"The Varieties of Religious Experience\" (1902), and Rudolph Otto, especially \"The Idea of the Holy\" (1917). James' notions of \"spiritual experience\" had a further influence on the modernist streams in Asian traditions, making them even further recognisable for a western audience.\n\nWilliam James popularized the use of the term \"religious experience\" in his The Varieties of Religious Experience. It has also influenced the understanding of mysticism as a distinctive experience which supplies knowledge.\n\nWayne Proudfoot traces the roots of the notion of \"religious experience\" further back to the German theologian Friedrich Schleiermacher (1768–1834), who argued that religion is based on a \"feeling\" of the infinite. The notion of \"religious experience\" was used by Schleiermacher to defend religion against the growing scientific and secular critique. It was adopted by many scholars of religion, of which William James was the most influential.\n\nMajor Asian influences were Vivekananda and D.T. Suzuki. Swami Vivekananda popularised a modern syncretitistic Hinduism, in which the authority of the scriptures was replaced by an emphasis on personal experience. D.T. Suzuki had a major influence on the popularisation of Zen in the west and popularized the idea of enlightenment as insight into a timeless, transcendent reality. Another example can be seen in Paul Brunton's \"A Search in Secret India\", which introduced Ramana Maharshi and Meher Baba to a western audience.\n\nSpiritual experiences can include being connected to a larger reality, yielding a more comprehensive self; joining with other individuals or the human community; with nature or the cosmos; or with the divine realm.\n\nWaaijman discerns four forms of spiritual practices:\n\nSpiritual practices may include meditation, mindfulness, prayer, the contemplation of sacred texts, ethical development, and spiritual retreats in a convent. Love and/or compassion are often described as the mainstay of spiritual development.\n\nWithin spirituality is also found \"a common emphasis on the value of thoughtfulness, tolerance for breadth and practices and beliefs, and appreciation for the insights of other religious communities, as well as other sources of authority within the social sciences.\"\n\nSince the scientific revolution of the 18th-century Enlightenment, the relationship of science to religion and to spirituality has developed in complex ways. Historian John Hedley Brooke describes wide variations: \nBrooke has proposed that the currently held popular notion of antagonisms between science and religion has historically originated with \"thinkers with a social or political axe to grind\" rather than with the natural philosophers themselves. Though physical and biological scientists today see no need for supernatural explanations to describe reality, some scientists continue to regard science and spirituality as complementary, not contradictory, and are willing to debate,\nrather than simply classifying spirituality and science as non-overlapping magisteria.\n\nA few religious leaders have shown openness to modern science and its methods. The 14th Dalai Lama, for example, has proposed that if a scientific analysis conclusively showed certain claims in Buddhism to be false, then the claims must be abandoned and the findings of science accepted.\n\nDuring the twentieth century the relationship between science and spirituality has been influenced both by Freudian psychology, which has accentuated the boundaries between the two areas by accentuating individualism and secularism, and by developments in particle physics, which reopened the debate about complementarity between scientific and religious discourse and rekindled for many an interest in holistic conceptions of reality. These holistic conceptions were championed by New Age spiritualists in a type of quantum mysticism that they claim justifies their spiritual beliefs, though quantum physicists themselves on the whole reject such attempts as being pseudoscientific.\n\nVarious studies (most originating from North America) have reported a positive correlation between spirituality and mental well-being in both healthy people and those encountering a range of physical illnesses or psychological disorders. Although spiritual individuals tend to be optimistic, report greater social support, and experience higher intrinsic meaning in life, strength, and inner peace, whether the correlation represents a causal link remains contentious. Both supporters and opponents of this claim agree that past statistical findings are difficult to interpret, in large part because of the ongoing disagreement over how spirituality should be defined and measured. There is also evidence that an agreeable / positive temperament and/or a tendency toward sociability (which all correlate with spirituality) might actually be the key psychological features that predispose people to subsequently adopt a spiritual orientation and that these characteristics, not spiritually \"per se\", add to well-being. There is also some suggestion that the benefits associated with spirituality and religiosity might arise from being a member of a close-knit community. Social bonds available via secular sources (i.e., not unique to spirituality or faith-based groups) might just as effectively raise well-being. In sum, spirituality may not be the \"active ingredient\" (i.e. past association with psychological well-being measures might reflect a reverse causation or effects from other variables that correlate with spirituality), and that the effects of agreeableness, conscientiousness, or virtue—personality traits common in many non-spiritual people yet known to be slightly more common among the spiritual—may better account for spirituality's apparent correlation with mental health and social support.\n\nMasters and Spielmans conducted a meta-analysis of all the available and reputable research examining the effects of distant intercessory prayer. They found no discernible health effects from being prayed for by others. In fact, one large and scientifically rigorous study by Herbert Benson and colleagues revealed that intercessory prayer had no effect on recovery from cardiac arrest, but patients told people were praying for them actually had an increased risk of medical complications. Knowing others are praying for you could actually be medically detrimental.\n\nIn the health-care professions there is growing interest in \"spiritual care\", to complement the medical-technical approaches and to improve the outcomes of medical treatments. Puchalski et al. argue for \"compassionate systems of care\" in a spiritual context.\n\nNeuroscientists have examined brain functioning during reported spiritual experiences finding that certain neurotransmitters and specific areas of the brain are involved. Moreover, experimenters have also successfully induced spiritual experiences in individuals by administering psychoactive agents known to elicit euphoria and perceptual distortions. Conversely, religiosity and spirituality can also be \" dampened\" by electromagnetic stimulation of the brain. These results have motivated some leading theorists to speculate that spirituality may be a benign subtype of psychosis (see). Benign in the sense that the same aberrant sensory perceptions that those suffering clinical psychoses evaluate as distressingly in-congruent and inexplicable are instead interpreted by spiritual individuals as positive—as personal and meaningful transcendent experiences.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23852476", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23852476", "title": "Vontaze Burfict", "text": "Vontaze Burfict\n\nVontaze DeLeon Burfict Jr. ( ; born September 24, 1990) is an American football player for the Cincinnati Bengals of the National Football League (NFL). He was signed by the Bengals as an undrafted free agent in 2012. He played college football at Arizona State. Burfict has earned a reputation as a dirty player for multiple incidents throughout his career. He has accumulated $4,150,000 in fines and forfeited salary through his career.\n\nBurfict was considered the most highly ranked football prospect Arizona State ever signed to a letter of intent, but had an up-and-down career for the Sun Devils. An All-American in 2010, Burfict was projected an early first round pick for the 2012 NFL Draft on the eve of his junior season. However, a mediocre on-field performance and poor pre-draft workouts deteriorated his draft stock. He went on to have a productive rookie season, starting 14 games and leading the team in tackles.\n\nBurfict attended Centennial High School in Corona, California, where he was part of an undefeated Huskies team that won a CIF title, a state championship with the help of quarterback Taylor Martinez, and was ranked second in the nation by \"USA Today\" in 2008. That year, Burfict led the Huskies with 159 tackles, two quarterback sacks, two interceptions and two fumble recoveries. Burfict participated in the US Army All-American Bowl and was the third-leading tackler for the West team. He also earned numerous All-American honors, including \"Parade\".\n\nAs a junior, Burfict collected a team-high 130 tackles and added four sacks, two interceptions and one fumble recovery. He helped anchor a linebackers unit that included fellow Sun Devils Shelly Lyons and Brandon Magee. Corona Centennial finished the 2007 season as No. 24 on \"USA Today‘s\" Top 25.\n\nBurfict missed almost all of his sophomore season due to academic problems.\n\nHe played in the 2009 U.S. Army All-American Bowl. Considered a five-star recruit by \"Rivals.com\" and \"Scout.com\", Burfict was listed as the No. 1 inside linebacker prospect in the nation.\n\nBurfict originally committed to play for the USC Trojans, but eventually switched to Arizona State on National Signing Day. He joined ASU's 2009 class that included three of his high school teammates. By July 2009, he struggled to meet admission standard based on the NCAA eligibility sliding scale and still had one summer school class to complete. Sun Devils coach Dennis Erickson, who compared Burfict to Ray Lewis, expected him to be academically eligible for enrollment. Burfict did qualify on time for the 2010 football season.\n\nBy midseason, Burfict ranked second in the team with 30 tackles despite starting only three of six games, and had five tackles for a loss, two sacks, and three pass break-ups. \"ESPN\" named him Arizona State's midseason defensive MVP. In a road game against Georgia on September 26, Burfict collected a season-high 11 tackles (three solo) and one and half tackles for loss. He led the Sun Devils in tackles in five games over the course of the season. By the end of the year, he had collected 69 tackles, seven tackles for loss, and a pair of sacks, and was named a Freshman All-American by \"College Football News\", and by the Football Writers Association of America. He was also honored as the Pacific-10 Conference Defensive Freshman of the Year.\n\nAt the start of his sophomore season, Burfict was named First-Team Preseason All-American by \"The Sporting News\". He was also named to the watchlists of the 2010 Rotary Lombardi Award and the Bronko Nagurski Trophy.\n\nOn October 6, 2010, Burfict was benched by Arizona State head coach Dennis Erickson. The reason given was Burfict's unusually high number of personal foul penalties. In a game against Stanford, Burfict was called for grabbing the facemask of Doug Baldwin, and—after complaining to the referee—charged with a personal foul for unsportsmanlike conduct that gave Stanford a first down at the ASU 7. Two plays later, Stanford scored what turned out to be the winning touchdown.\n\nBurfict finished the 2010 season with a team leading 90 tackles, 8.5 for a loss, and two forced fumbles. \"The Sporting News\" selected him to their All-American team, as well as Pacific-10 Defensive MVP. Burfict is ASU's first 1st team All-American since Terrell Suggs.\n\nWith senior cornerback Omar Bolden lost for the season to a knee injury, Burfict was expected to take over as the leader of the Sun Devils defense in 2011, but eventually had a rather inconsistent junior season. Burfict decided to forgo his senior year at Arizona State and entered the 2012 NFL Draft.\n\nWhen he entered his junior season, Burfict was regarded as one of the best linebackers available in the 2012 NFL Draft, projected to go as high as the fifth pick. Problems on and off the field at Arizona State, however, caused his draft stock to plummet. In October 2011, \"Sports Illustrated\"′s Tony Pauline still ranked him as the No. 20 prospect on his midseason draft board, but noted that he has been \"a loose cannon on and off the field, which has raised red flags.\"\n\nBurfict entered the NFL Combine rated as the third best inside linebacker, behind Luke Kuechly and Dont'a Hightower, but his \"disappointing\" performance—including a 5.09 sec in the 40-yard dash, slowest among linebackers—caused some analysts to project him as a third day (Rd. 4-7) draft pick. NFL scouts also faulted him for his interview process, in which he blamed the Arizona State coaching staff for his mediocre junior season. Later it was also reported that Burfict tested positive for marijuana at the combine.\n\nAt the Arizona State pro day on March 16, Burfict had an \"average\" performance by his own estimation. According to \"Sports Illustrated\"s Tony Pauline, Burfict \"looked poorly conditioned and out-of-place in drills\". In their draft coverage, SI.com projected him as 7th round to undrafted. Burfict eventually went undrafted, but was signed by the Cincinnati Bengals as an undrafted free agent.\n\nAn undrafted rookie, Burfict managed to make the Cincinnati Bengals' roster. He played in all 16 games and started 14 of those, finishing the seasons as the Bengals' top tackler with 127 combined tackles, including 18 tackles in their final game of the year against their divisional rival Baltimore Ravens. When Burfict was on field, the Bengals defense allowed 2.4 yards fewer per play, allowing 4.5 compared to 6.9 when he was off the field.\n\nFor incidents that occurred in the 34–30 win over the Green Bay Packers in Week 3 of the 2013 season, Burfict was fined a total of $31,000. He had hit a defenseless receiver (James Jones) and intentionally struck an opponent in the groin (Ryan Taylor).\n\nBurfict finished the 2013 season leading the NFL in tackles with 171, and was the only Bengals defensive player selected to the Pro Bowl. He was the first Bengals linebacker to make the Pro Bowl since Jim LeClair in 1976. Burfict also topped the list for the NFL'Performance-Based Pay' program with earning $299,465.\n\nOn August 20, 2014, Burfict signed a four-year contract extension with the Bengals.\n\nOn October 10, 2014, Panthers tight end Greg Olsen accused Burfict of intentionally trying to injure Olsen and Panthers quarterback Cam Newton by twisting their ankles after the play was over. On October 15, 2014, Burfict was fined $25,000 for twisting ankles on both Newton and Olsen.\n\nOn December 15, 2015, Pittsburgh Steelers quarterback Ben Roethlisberger accused Burfict of having intentionally targeted his ankle in the teams' regular season game on December 13. Burfict was fined for the hit a few days later and planned to appeal.\n\nOn January 9, 2016, in the AFC Wild Card Round against the Steelers, Burfict committed a critical penalty with 18 seconds left in the fourth quarter, when the Bengals were leading Pittsburgh 16-15. Ben Roethlisberger had reentered the game, drove from inside his own 10 yard line, and crossed midfield into Bengals territory. The penalty, which was for an illegal hit to the head on Antonio Brown after Brown had converted a 4th and 3 for a 1st down into Bengal territory, which together with a second personal foul by Adam Jones positioned Pittsburgh to kick a go-ahead field goal and win the game, 18-16, and advance to the divisional round against the Denver Broncos. On January 11, the NFL announced that Burfict would be suspended for the first three games of the 2016 season for repeated violations of player safety rules.\n\nAfter serving a suspension of 3 games to begin the season, Burfict started 11 games in 2016. He participated in 101 tackles, 73 of them individually, had two interceptions for 54 yards, and recovered one fumble.\n\nOn August 28, Burfict was suspended for the first five games of the 2017 regular season due to a hit he made on Chiefs fullback Anthony Sherman in the second preseason game. On August 30, he appealed, and his suspension was reduced to three games. On September 7, Burfict signed a three-year extension worth $38.68 million with a $3.3 million signing bonus. During Week 7 against the Steelers, Burfict lunged both his feet in the face mask of Roosevelt Nix before trying to get back up. The scene occurred with 43 seconds of regulation beginning, but no flag was thrown. On October 27, Burfict was fined $12,154. During Week 10 against the Tennessee Titans, Burfict's troubles continued as he committed two personal foul penalties. The first penalty was a late hit on DeMarco Murray, and the other was unsportsmanlike conduct, where he bumped into an official (although camera footage did not show). Burfict was subsequently ejected for the first time in his NFL career, and left by imitating a celebration taunt by Johnny Manziel. Burfict became the victim of a blindside hit by JuJu Smith-Schuster during Monday Night Football against the Steelers in Week 13, being carted off the field with a concussion. Smith-Schuster was suspended for one game for the hit.\n\nOn March 16, 2018, Burfict was suspended for four games due to a PED violation.\nOn October 20, 2018, during the Bengal's week 6 loss to the Pittsburgh Steelers, Burfict was fined $112k for an illegal hit on Antonio Brown which sent him into the NFL's concussion protocol and also resulted in a game-ending head injury to his own teammate.\n\nBurfict was born in South Los Angeles. His father, a gang member and convicted cocaine dealer, was incarcerated most of the time and never had a relationship with his son. His mother, a city transit bus driver, initially raised Burfict and his older half-brother DaShan Miller ( 1986) on her own, but eventually remarried and moved to Corona. Like Burfict, Miller was a football player at Corona Centennial High School, and later played college football at UTEP and Akron. Miller was eligible for the 2010 NFL Draft, but he went undrafted.\n\n"}
{"id": "7210138", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7210138", "title": "Æthelwold of East Anglia", "text": "Æthelwold of East Anglia\n\nÆthelwold, also known as Æthelwald or Æþelwald (Old English: \"Æþelwald\" \"noble ruler\"; reigned c. 654–664), was a 7th-century king of East Anglia, the long-lived Anglo-Saxon kingdom which today includes the English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. He was a member of the Wuffingas dynasty, which ruled East Anglia from their \"regio\" (centre of royal authority) at Rendlesham. The two Anglo-Saxon cemeteries at Sutton Hoo, the monastery at Iken, the East Anglian see at Dommoc and the emerging port of Ipswich were all in the vicinity of Rendlesham.\n\nÆthelwold lived during a time of political and religious upheaval in East Anglia, whose Christian kings in the decades prior to his succession all died violent deaths, having proved unworthy of the task of defending the newly converted kingdom against attacks from its neighbouring kingdom, Mercia, led by its pagan king, Penda. Æthelwold was the last of the nephews of Rædwald to rule East Anglia. He died in 664 and was succeeded by Ealdwulf, the son of his brother Æthelric.\n\nFew records relating to East Anglia have survived and almost nothing is known of Æthelwold's life or reign. He succeeded his elder brother Æthelhere, after Æthelhere was killed with Penda of Mercia at the Battle of the Winwæd in about 655. During his rule he witnessed a setback in the aspirations of Mercia to dominate its neighbours, following the Battle of the Winwæd and the murder of Penda's son, Peada.\n\nHe was king during the last decade of the co-existence in England of the Christian Roman rite, centred at Canterbury, and the Celtic rite based in Northumbria. At the Synod of Whitby, in 664, the Roman cause prevailed and the division of ecclesiastical authorities ceased. In 662, Swithelm of Essex was persuaded to adopt Christianity and was baptised at Rendlesham, with Æthelwold present as his sponsor. East Anglia became more closely allied to Northumbria, Kent and lands in the Fens by means of royal marriages such as that between the Northumbrian Hereswitha and the East Anglian Æthilric.\n\nThe history of East Anglia and its kings is known from \"The Ecclesiastical History of the English People\", compiled by the Northumbrian monk Bede in 731, and a genealogical list from the \"Anglian collection\", dating from the 790s, in which the ancestry of Ælfwald of East Anglia was traced back through fourteen generations to Wōden.\n\nEast Anglia was a long-lived Anglo-Saxon kingdom in which a duality of a northern and a southern part existed, corresponding with the modern English counties of Norfolk and Suffolk. It was formed during the 5th century, following the ending of Roman power in Britain in 410. The east of Britain became settled at an early date by Saxons and Angles from the continent. During the 5th century, groups of settlers of mixed stock migrated into the Fens and up the major rivers inland. From Bede it is known that the people who settled in what became East Anglia were Angles, originally from what is now part of Denmark. By the 6th century, new settlements had also appeared along the river systems of the east coast of East Anglia, including the Deben, the Alde and the Orwell. The settlers were unaffected by Roman urban civilisation and had their own religion and language. As more of the region fell under their control, new kingdoms were formed, replacing the function of the Roman \"territoria\". Surrounded by sea, fenland, large defensive earthworks such as the Devil's Dyke and wide rivers, all of which acted to disconnect it from the rest of Britain, the land of the East Angles eventually became united by a single ruling dynasty, the Wuffingas.\n\nThe first king of the East Angles of whom more than a name is known was Rædwald, described by Bede as 'the son of Tytil, whose father was Wuffa', who reigned from about 599 until approximately 624. According to Bede, he was converted to Christianity at the court of his overlord Æthelberht of Kent in about 604. Later in his reign he was powerful enough to hold \"imperium\" over several Anglo-Saxon kingdoms. In 616, he defeated Æthelfrith of Northumbria and installed the exiled Edwin as the new king. He is thought to have been given a ship burial and interred amongst a magnificent array of personal treasures and symbols of regal power that were discovered under Mound 1 at Sutton Hoo, in Suffolk. His son Eorpwald succeeded him and reigned briefly before he was killed soon after his baptism, by a heathen named Ricberht, after which the East Angles reverted to paganism. Ricberht was replaced by Sigeberht, whose Christian education ensured that Christianity was reestablished. During Sigeberht's joint reign with Ecgric, the East Anglian see at Dommoc was established.\n\nDuring 632 or 633, Edwin of Northumbria was overthrown and slain and his kingdom was ravaged by Cadwallon ap Cadfan, supported by Penda of Mercia. The Mercians then turned on the East Angles and their king, Ecgric. In 640 or 641, they routed the East Anglian army in a battle in which Ecgric and his predecessor Sigeberht both perished.\n\nEcgric's successor, Æthelwold's brother Anna, who was renowned for his devout Christianity and the saintliness of his children, proved ineffective in preventing East Anglia from being invaded by the Mercians. Following a Mercian attack in 651 on the monastery at Cnobheresburg, Anna was exiled by Penda, possibly to the kingdom of the Magonsæte. After his return, East Anglia was attacked again by Penda, Anna's forces were defeated and he was killed. During the reign of his successor, Æthelhere (another brother of Æthelwold), East Anglia was eclipsed by Mercia. In 655, after the Battle of the Winwæd, near Leeds, in which Æthelhere was slain fighting beside Penda, a new political situation arose. Penda's son Peada, who had ruled the Mercian province of the Middle Angles as a Christian king from 653, now succeeded Penda as king of Mercia, but he was murdered a year later. Peada's death dealt a severe blow to Mercian aspirations of dominion over the other kingdoms of England.\n\nThe royal seat of Rendlesham, specified by Bede, seals the evident importance of the Deben estuary headwaters as a centre of royal power, demonstrated for an earlier period by the royal cemetery of Sutton Hoo. Rendlesham, a short distance from Iken, the site of Botolph's monastery, stands at a strategic point between the rivers Deben and Alde at the headwaters of the Butley estuary, which intersects the peninsula between the two major rivers. The dedication of Rendlesham's church to St Gregory suggests its early, perhaps primary connection with the royal dwelling mentioned by Bede. If the Dommoc bishopric was at Walton, as Rochester claimed in the thirteenth century, then this was also immediately within the sphere of Rendlesham. Archaeologists have revealed that the quay of Gipeswic (now modern Ipswich), at a ford of the River Orwell estuary, was then growing in importance as a centre of seaborne trade to the continent, under direct royal patronage.\n\nÆthelwold, (Old English 'noble ruler') was a member of the Wuffingas dynasty, the youngest son of Eni and a nephew of Rædwald of East Anglia. Two of his brothers, Anna and Æthelhere, ruled in succession before him.\n\nHis accession is mentioned by the 12th-century historian William of Malmesbury, in \"Gesta Regum Anglorum\": \n\nDynastic alliances bound Æthelwold's kingdom strongly to the Christian kingdom of Kent, where Seaxburh, the eldest daughter of Æthelwold's elder brother Anna, was Eorcenberht of Kent's queen. East Anglia's western stronghold in the Fens was held by Seaxburh's sister Æthelthryth and, like Kent, it was devoutly attached to the Roman Church. There was also an important Northumbrian connection: in 657, Hilda established the monastery of Streoneshalh (identified with Whitby), which later became the burial-place of Edwin and other Northumbrian kings. Hilda's sister Hereswitha married Æthelwold's youngest brother Æthelric in around 627–629.\n\nThe influence of the Celtic rite in East Anglia had been strong whilst the monastery of Saint Fursey and Saint Foillan at Cnobheresburg had existed. The authority of East Anglian Christianity still resided in the East Anglian see at Dommoc, obedient to Canterbury. Saint Botolph began to build his monastery at Iken, on a tidal island site in the River Alde, Suffolk, in about 653, the year that Anna of East Anglia was killed at the Battle of Bulcamp. \nOswiu successfully persuaded Sigeberht II of the East Saxons to receive baptism and Cedd, a Northumbrian disciple of Aidan's, was diverted from the Northumbrian mission to the Middle Angles under Peada to become Bishop of the East Saxons and re-convert the people. Cedd built monasteries at Tilbury in the south and at Ythancæster, where there was an old Roman fort, at what is now Bradwell-on-Sea, in north-east Essex. Sigebert was assassinated by his own thegns and was succeeded by the pagan Swithelm of Essex. Cedd persuaded him to accept the faith and, according to Bede, his baptism by Cedd took place at Rendlesham, in the presence of King Æthelwold:\n\n\"Sigebert was succeeded in the kingdom by Suidhelm, the son of Sexbald, who was baptized by the same Cedd, in the province of the East Angles, at the king's countryseat, called Rendelsham, that is, Rendil's Mansion; and Ethelwald, king of the East Angles, brother to Anna, king of the same people, was his godfather.\"\n\nIn the early 660s, two important marriages took place. Ecgfrith of Northumbria, the fifteen-year-old son of Oswiu, married Æthelthryth of Ely, the daughter of Anna of East Anglia, (who was about fourteen years older than him), and moved to live with him at his Northumbrian court. She had remained a virgin for Christ during her first marriage: she continued in this resolve as Ecgfrityh's bride, with the result that he could not expect to father an heir. Æthelthryth retained Ely as her own possession during this marriage.\n\nMeanwhile, Wulfhere of Mercia, a brother of Peada, emerged from safe retreat and was proclaimed king. He was not Christian, but was soon converted and subsequently married Eormenhilda, daughter of Eorcenberht of Kent and Seaxburh. Soon afterwards he founded the monastery of Medeshamstede, which later became known as Peterborough, under abbot Seaxwulf.\n\nFollowing the death of Finan, bishop of Lindisfarne, Alhfrith of Deira, in collusion with Wilfred of York, Agilbert of Wessex and others, were determined to persuade Oswiu to rule in favour of the Roman rite of Christianity within the kingdoms over which he had \"imperium\". The case was debated in Oswiu's presence at the Synod of Whitby in 664, with Colmán, Hild and Cedd defending the Celtic rite and the tradition inherited from Aidan, and Wilifred speaking for the Roman position. The Roman cause prevailed and the former division of ecclesiastical authorities was set aside. Those who could not accept it, including Colmán, departed elsewhere.\n\nAt that time plague swept through Europe and Anglo-Saxon England. Amongst its victims was Bishop Cedd, Archbishop Deusdedit of Canterbury, and Eorconbehrt of Kent. Æthelwold also died in 664.\n\n"}
