{"id": "21470959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21470959", "title": "2009 Perak constitutional crisis", "text": "2009 Perak constitutional crisis\n\nThe 2009 Perak constitutional crisis was a political dispute in Malaysia regarding the legitimacy of the Perak state government formed in February 2009. It began when three Pakatan Rakyat state legislators defected, causing a collapse of the state government. The Sultan of Perak then refused Menteri Besar Mohammad Nizar Jamaluddin's request to dissolve the state assembly and call for new elections. Instead, Barisan Nasional (BN), with support from the three defecting assemblymen, formed the new state government.\n\nThe BN state government's legitimacy and the Sultan's decision not to dissolve the state assembly was disputed vehemently by Pakatan Rakyat politicians. A series of battles in the courts ensued between Nizar and the new Menteri Besar (Chief Minister), Zambry Abdul Kadir. Ultimately, the Federal Court confirmed in February 2010 that Zambry was the lawful menteri besar.\n\nThe crisis in Perak began with the announcement by Barisan Nasional's Nasarudin Hashim of his desire to cross the floor to Pakatan Rakyat. This was then followed by the re-defection of Nasaruddin to Barisan Nasional, and the declaration by three Pakatan Rakyat representatives, Deputy Speaker Hee Yit Foong, senior state Executive Council member Jamaluddin Mohd. Radzi and Osman Jailu, of their intentions to sit as independents while supporting the Barisan Nasional in confidence matters. The Sultan granted an audience to the Prime Minister (who is the head of Perak Barisan Nasional); at this meeting the PM claimed that the Barisan Nasional had the support of the majority of peoples elected representatives in the State Assembly. The Sultan ordered the PM to prove he had a majority. The PM left and returned later (the same day) with 31 elected members of the State Assembly all of whom told the sultan that they had no confidence in the Pakatan Rakyat and that they would support a Barisan Nasional government. Prior to the defections, Pakatan Rakyat had 32 representatives while Barisan Nasional had 27 representatives. The defections meant that the state now has 28 Pakatan Rakyat representatives, 28 Barisan Nasional representatives, and 3 independent representatives who pledged confidence to Barisan Nasional.\n\nThe morality of crossing the floor, the Sultan's power to dismiss the Menteri Besar (First Minister), the validity of pre-signed undated resignation letters, the powers of the Speaker of the House and power of the Election Commission were major issues of this constitutional crisis. On 11 May 2009, the Kuala Lumpur High Court ruled that the Sultan was not constitutionally permitted to dismiss the Menteri Besar, and that Nizar had always been the rightful head of the state government. On 22 May 2009, the Court of Appeal overturned the High Court decision, and confirmed that the Barisan Nasional which has sworn in a new chief minister and parliamentary speaker for Perak should remain in power. Furthermore, the Court of Appeal found the trial judge to have erred in confusing the issue of whether the government has lost the confidence of the majority of the house with the issue of whether the Sultan has the power to dismiss the government. However Zambry's position as Menteri Besar will not go unchallenged despite the ruling as Pakatan Rakyat leaders have indicated they intend to file an appeal.\n\nThe crisis began on 25 January 2009 when a member of the Barisan Nasional coalition's main component party - UMNO, Nasarudin Hashim announced his decision to leave the party and join PKR. Pakatan Rakyat leader, Anwar Ibrahim made continued claims of the possibility of more Perak and also Federal lawmakers from Barisan Nasional crossing the floor to Pakatan Rakyat. Mohammad Nizar Jamaluddin, the state's First Minister, also hinted at the possibility of another three state lawmakers from Barisan Nasional defecting over to Pakatan Rakyat. Nasarudin Hashim's defection angered the then Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi, who chided Nasarudin for being weak and claimed that Nasarudin's defection was because Nasarudin was disappointed in not being offered any senior party posts. Nasarudin rebutted the Prime Minister's statement and claimed his decision was due to the mood of his constituents. On 29 January 2009 then Finance Minister Najib Razak took over from Mohammad Tajol Rosli Ghazali as the Perak UMNO chief, as Tajol Rosli resigned over Nasaruddin's party shift.\n\nOn 30 January 2009 two state assemblymen from PKR, senior state exco member and one time candidate for First Minister Jamaluddin Mat Radzi and Mohd Osman Jailu, who were both previously accused of corruption went missing from their homes. The State Assembly speaker V. Sivakumar of the DAP then declared the seats held by Jamaluddin and Osman vacant and informed the Election Commission to initiate a by-election in the two ridings. On 2 February 2009 both assemblymen reappeared and declared themselves independent assemblymen while pledging support for Barisan Nasional in confidence matters. The Election Commission then decided to not heed the speaker's requests and states that no by-elections would be held for the seats held by Jamaluddin and Osman.\n\nThe deputy speaker of the state assembly from the DAP Hee Yit Foong declared herself independent on 3 February 2009 with the same terms as Jamaluddin and Osman - supporting Barisan Nasional in matters of confidence. Nizar had an audience with the Sultan of Perak Sultan Azlan Shah and requested a dissolution of the state assembly to pave way for a snap election on 4 January 2009. Najib in his capacity as Perak UMNO chief had an audience with Sultan Azlan Shah together with Hee, Jamaluddin and Osman. The latest Pakatan Rakyat lawmaker Nasaruddin announced his return to UMNO citing that \"[He] want[s] stability in Perak.\" Najib, then sought royal consent for Barisan Nasional to form the new government.\n\nAn almost similar scenario occurred in the state of Sabah following the 1994 state election whereby Parti Bersatu Sabah (PBS) won 25 seats against 23 won by Barisan Nasional. Defections by representatives of PBS into Barisan Nasional gave the latter the requisite majority to form government in Sabah.\n\nThe Sultan Azlan Shah announced his decision to refuse Nizar's request for a dissolution of the state assembly and asked Nizar and his cabinet to resign, citing his discretion under Article XVIII (2)(b) of the Perak State Constitution after being satisfied that Nizar no longer commanded the support of the majority in the house of assembly. DAP advisor, Lim Kit Siang, charged that the sultan was obliged to act on the advice of the Menteri Besar and call fresh elections, citing Article 16(6) of the Perak State Constitution.\n\nNizar refused to resign and asked the sultan to reconsider and dissolve the assembly, citing reasons of democracy, with backing from leaders of Pakatan Rakyat. The police cordoned off the state secretariat building and demanded Nizar's cabinet to vacate the building. Later in the evening, the sultan asked Zambry Abdul Kadir to form the next government, removed Nizar from the office of Menteri Besar and swore in Zambry as the new First Minister on 6 February 2009.\n\nOn the morning of 6 February 2009, Nizar and his exco members returned to the Menteri Besar's office to find that their offices had been cleared. Nizar held a press conference in the office premises along with his exco, but they were promptly ordered to leave by the state secretary on grounds that they had breached an earlier agreement to only take his personal belongings. Nizar was escorted out of the office by the police 45 minutes later. Some members of the Bar Council defended the sultan's decision saying that His Majesty had acted within the state constitutional provisions while Information Minister Ahmad Shabery Cheek claimed that Nizar's refusal to resign was act of treason.\n\nZambry was sworn in as the new Menteri Besar of Perak at 4.08pm that day. The ceremony was attended by members of the Barisan Nasional, including Najib, who arrived in the royal palace, Istana Iskandariah, Kuala Kangsar under heavy security. Supporters of the Pakatan Rakyat amassed in large number outside the palace to protest the swearing in of Zambry. Anwar Ibrahim challenged the legitimacy of Zambry's appointment by stating that Nizar still remains the Menteri Besar, as guaranteed by the state constitutional provisions, while Nizar continued his call for a motion of no confidence to be held in the assembly sitting before he steps down. Nizar called for the resignation of Zambry and stated his desire to file an application at the High Court and declare his appointment as unconstitutional. Nizar and other members of the Pakatan administration returned to the Menteri Besar official residence on 7 February and went ahead with approving three new policies in Perak.\n\nDAP chairman and Bukit Gelugor MP Karpal Singh issued a notice that he will file a lawsuit against the sultan and the new Barisan Nasional state government for acting beyond the state Constitution. Since the Election Commission had ruled that there was doubt over the vacancy of the state seats of Changkat Jering and Behrang (held by Osman Jailu and Jamaluddin Mohd Radzi respectively) after the pre-signed letters submitted by Assembly Speaker V. Sivakumar in relation to their resignation were contradicted by denials from both assemblymen, it triggered the provision of Article 33 (1). The provision stated that \"if any question arises whether a member of the state Legislative Assembly has become disqualified for membership, the decision of the assembly shall be taken and shall be final\". Mohammad Nizar Jamaluddin also filed an application at the High Court to declare the swearing in of Zambry Abdul Kadir as unconstitutional and illegal.\n\nAccording to Nizar's senior exco member Ngeh Koo Ham, the Perak state legal advisor, Ahmad Kamal Mohd Shahid was trying to block state representatives from being notified of an emergency sitting of the state assembly on 3 March. He mentioned that this obstruction was in “contempt of the house” and liable for punishment under house rules.\n\nBecause the assemblypersons were barred from entering the building, Sivakumar declared the parking lot of the State Secretariat building as the meeting place. The assembly met under a tree in the parking lot, which would later be known as the Democracy tree. All the three motions were debated and passed unanimously, 27-0.\n\nThe Coalition for Free and Fair Elections (Bersih) urged Malaysians to wear black on 7 May, to protest the \"ongoing Perak coup\" by the Barisan Nasional government.\n\"It will be a peaceful but powerful message of civil disobedience: that we, the people, are the politicians' bosses and no politician defiant of public opinion can escape punishment at the next poll,\" said Bersih representative Wong Chin Huat at the launch of the 1BLACKMalaysia campaign on 5 May.\nThat evening, Wong was arrested for sedition for writing several articles, including on the 1BLACKMalaysia campaign.\nSecurity was tight around the state secretariat building where the state assembly is housed. The police cordoned off the roads in the areas from the night before the sitting on 7 May.\nThe police warned political party supporters not to create tension by dressing in black and gathering illegally in protest of the Perak state assembly sitting.\nThat didn't stop the supporters from showing up, dressed in black. Even before the sitting began, the police had arrested at dozens of people.\n\nOn 11 May 2009, the High Court of Kuala Lumpur ruled that, since there had been no vote of no confidence in the state assembly, the Barisan Nasional takeover was \"illegal\" and the Pakatan Rakyat's Mohd Nizar Jamaluddin still held office. The opposition is expected to call for fresh elections, while the ruling party has vowed to appeal.\nThe Regent of Perak Raja Nazrin Shah has agreed to see Datuk Seri Nizar Jamaluddin on his request for dissolution of the Perak state legislature and the call for a fresh election.\n\nThe night of 11 May, the Pakatan Rakyat Perak executive council met and dismissed the state secretary and state legal adviser. Nizar announced his executive council would report for work the next day, and asserted that the 7 May sitting of the state assembly was invalid because it had been called by Zambry. By implication, this would prevent the Barisan-appointed Speaker from convening a new sitting of the state assembly.\n\nOn 12 May, Zambry filed his appeal at the Court of Appeal, which granted him a stay of execution on the court ruling, allowing him to retain the post of Menteri Besar until his appeal is heard.\n\nThe Court of Appeal overturned the High Court decision and held that Zambry the lawful Menteri Besar. The Court of Appeal's verdict was upheld by the Federal Court with a 5-0 verdict in February 2010.\n\nThe constitutional crisis came to an indefinite end with Pakatan leaders having no choice but to obey the ruling. As a result, no fresh election was called and Zambry continues as Menteri Besar while Nizar became the opposition leader.\n\nOn 2 March 2009, the president of the Malaysian Bar Council, Ambiga Sreenevasan remarked that the Institution of the Perak and its constitution are breaking down. She also mentioned that the secretary of state does not have the power to interfere in the affair of the assembly nor does the police, while the speaker has the very rights within the constitution to exercise his power to call for an emergency sitting of the state assembly. She was also quoted saying “Our institutions, that is the courts, the police, et cetera, are being tested and we can judge for ourselves whether they are acting independently or not.”\n\nTengku Razaleigh Hamzah, an UMNO politician veteran agreed with Pakatan MB to dissolve the state legislative and call for fresh state elections to resolve the political stalemate in Perak.\n\nThe Human Rights Commission (Suhakam) has joined the ever increasing chorus calling for fresh state elections to resolve the political stalemate in Perak.\n\nHardial Singh Khaira, a legal researcher, has done a full research on \"The Dismissal and Appointment of Menteri Besars in Perak\" before any judgment was delivered on the Perak constitutional crisis by any Malaysian court and the full article can be viewed online.\n"}
{"id": "31503419", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31503419", "title": "2011 crackdown on dissidents in China", "text": "2011 crackdown on dissidents in China\n\nThe 2011 crackdown on dissidents in China refers to the arrest of dozens of mainland Chinese rights lawyers, activists and grassroots agitators in a response to the 2011 Chinese pro-democracy protests. Since the protests, at least 54 Chinese activists have been arrested or detained by authorities in the biggest crackdown on dissent since the Tiananmen Square protests of 1989. Since the start of the protests in mid-February 2011, human rights groups have claimed that more than 54 people have been arrested by authorities, some of whom have been charged with crimes. Among those arrested are bloggers who criticise the government such as Ai Weiwei, lawyers who pursue cases against the government, and human rights activists.\n\nAt least 54 leading activists have been arrested or detained by authorities including:\n\nRenee Xia, the international director of Chinese Human Rights Defenders, commented on 26 February 2011: \"The numbers point to a bad situation that is only getting worse. In the matter of a few days, we have seen more cases of prominent lawyers subjected to prolonged disappearances, more criminal charges that may carry lengthy prison sentences for activists, more home raids, and a heavier reliance on extralegal measures.\";\nIn addition, according to Phelim Kine of the Human Right Watch, three people, Lan Ruoyu, Tan Yanhua, and Zhang Haibo, are believed to be still missing by September, 2011. A total of about 17 people from the above list remain in detention, prison, or re-education through labor. An unknown number of people remain held in house detention.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38015347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38015347", "title": "Accord Alliance", "text": "Accord Alliance\n\nAccord Alliance was founded in March 2008 to support a dialogue on intersex patients and their care. They are a hosted project of the Tides Center, an organization that supports non-profit groups. Their stated mission is to promote comprehensive and integrated approaches to care that enhance the health and well-being of people and families affected by disorders of sex development (DSD, which includes some conditions referred to as \"intersex\"). DSD is a term contested by some activists. Cheryl Chase, founder of the Intersex Society of North America, was a founding member on the advisory board.\n"}
{"id": "39375026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39375026", "title": "Alley Dwelling Authority", "text": "Alley Dwelling Authority\n\nThe Alley Dwelling Authority was a government funded program that sought to help with the development of alley dwellings in Washington DC. Alleys in Washington DC suffered from a variety of problems, most prominently overpopulation and poverty. During the 1800s in Foggy Bottom, Washington DC’s population changed drastically. Starting in 1822, there was an estimated forty households with a majority of skilled workers; however, by 1860 there were around 175 households. This drastic change yielded the percentage of skilled workers and unskilled workers to fluctuate. This suggests that there was a boom in the economy and a drastic change in the need for factory hands. This change was beneficial because it created greater numbers to flock into these new areas of Foggy Bottom, then forcing groups like the Alley Dwelling Authorities to step in and reconstruct old dilapidated homes.\n\nThe ADA was given the task of evaluating homes and streets to see if they met proper living conditions. Specific documentation would state the reasons why the area needed to be renovated. This documentation would then be sent from the authority to legislation for approval. Individuals in legislation included (but not exclusively) Eleanor Roosevelt. Common reasons as to why an area needed to be renovated were: excess of individuals in one home, too many African Americans in and around the area, or a fading exterior. After the ADA gained approval from legislation, it would then give the occupants of the houses anywhere from two to four months to find a new home. By July 1, 1944, all of the houses in Foggy Bottom had been evacuated and plans were set forward for renovation. This act sought to produce larger living spaces for individuals with better conditions, so that the owners could charge more for rent. Higher rent prices were acceptable at the time because of a boom in available jobs, which created a more competitive supply and demand market for housing. Monthly rent usually ranged anywhere from seventeen dollars to thirty-seven dollars. These prices fluctuated often because of the available jobs and the condition of the houses. Older houses were typically cheaper than new homes, some of which had running water, gas heaters and cooling systems. Statistics suggest that, on average, the greater wealth arose from the majority of white residents, but also that black wealth was steadily increasing due to new job patterns.\n\nIn the process of attempting to improve upon DC living standards, the ADA demolished entire alleys. By tearing down the houses of alley dwellers, the ADA was able to refurbish the area into better houses. Funding for the new houses were from the United States Housing Authority. The two loans that were made amounted to a total of $6,000,000 and $4,258,000. However, the construction rendered alley dwellers whose houses were being fixed with no place to live. Of the five completed projects, four of them were being occupied by African Americans. The intended purpose for these projects was to lower crime and death rates. Moreover, there was a conflict when the white population did not want the black population to dwell near them. The ADA had several moral and legal conflicts to manage, as it had to undergo multiple legal loopholes to excise the alley dwellers out of their homes.\n\nThe black population in DC Alleys was at its zenith during the late nineteenth century, although they could not afford sufficient housing. The black population needed more housing in order to live comfortably, but since they did not have more housing, living conditions were often cramped, particularly in small apartments. At the same time, it was necessary for them to live in DC and be close enough to their jobs. John Ihlder, a supporter of public housing and an executive officer for the ADA, dealt with implementing alley development. One government official whom Ihlder contacted was Dr. William T. Grady, chairman in office. The two exchanged letters in order to deal with St. Mary’s court apartment which was specifically built for “negro occupancy,”. The white population believed that the black population should be completely moved out of the DC district, and that St. Mary’s court should be renewed and housed for the white people living in these areas. They began to have regulations on being able to live in these apartments, causing “negroes” to live in the outskirts of town. The regulations included working in the West End, and preferences toward families instead of single people. Ihlder stated that three-four years before June 25, 1939, African Americans occupied most alley dwellings. five to six thousand African Americans paid low rent housing with the alley dwellings. The whites wanted to and had nuked the blacks “negro occupancy”. The government stated that this was inaccurate, that the reasoning for the blacks being moved out from these alleys was for them to improve the conditions of their living environment. Their plan was to put indoor plumbing and polish the housing and make more room, and made blacks move into low income home for 3–4 months. When the blacks came back to purchase their homes they were unable to afford it, due to the new improvements. Not all government officials were trying to push blacks out of these alleys; one of the main advocates for blacks staying in these alleys was Eleanor Roosevelt.\n\nEleanor Roosevelt was a strong advocate for the Washington Housing Authority, as she looked to put an end to discrimination. As the president of the committee Eleanor Roosevelt made it a priority for her to aid the alley dwellers. On June 12, 1934 the District of Columbia Alley Dwelling Act was passed, establishing the Washington Housing Authority as an independent agency. The government attempted to eliminate the alley dwelling lifestyle and tried to improve the situation which was the cause for the New Deal.\n\nThe ADA had a significant effect upon the development of alleys, particularly in Foggy Bottom. An alley dwelling within Foggy Bottom, Snow’s Court, witnessed some of the most prevalent changes in terms of alley development. The ADA effectively mended the initially horrid living conditions and the problems that arose with overpopulation in Snows Court. Because of their actions, Snows Court today is affiliated primarily with the middle and the upper class.\n\nBorchert, James. Alley Life in Washington: Family, Community, Religion, and Folklife in the City, 1850-1970. Urbana: University of Illinois, 1980. Print.\n\n\"First Lady Biography: Eleanor Roosevelt.\" The National First Lady Library. The National First Lady Library, n.d. Web. 26 Apr. 2013. <http://www.firstladies.org/biographies/firstladies.aspx?biography=33>.\n\nSherwood, Suzanne Berry. Foggy Bottom, 1800-1975: A Study in the Uses of an Urban Neighborhood. Washington: George Washington University, 1978. Print.\n"}
{"id": "14653254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14653254", "title": "Casual vacancy", "text": "Casual vacancy\n\nIn politics, a casual vacancy (\"casual\" in the sense of \"by chance\") is a situation in which a seat in a deliberative assembly becomes vacant during that assembly's term. Casual vacancies may arise through the death, resignation or disqualification of the sitting member, or for other reasons.\n\nCasual vacancies have the effect of eliminating or reducing the representation for the member's constituency. Accordingly, many jurisdictions provide by law for the speedy filling of vacant seats.\n\nCasual vacancies can also occur in non-governmental assemblies, such as boards of directors and committees of voluntary organisations.\n\nVacancies in the House of Commons of Canada are filled by the scheduling of a by-election in the affected district. The writ for a by-election must be dropped no sooner than 11 days and no later than 180 days after the Chief Electoral Officer is officially notified of a vacancy via a warrant issued by the Speaker. Under the Canada Elections Act, the minimum length of a campaign is 36 days between dropping the writ and election day. A seat can, in some cases, be vacant for even longer; prior to the 2015 federal election, for example, Stephen Harper had to call three by-elections in 2015. However, as the length of time the seats were vacant required that a byelection be called but the length of time remaining before the general election campaign began was too short to justify actually holding one, he scheduled the by-election dates as the date of the general election itself — a technical formality which essentially meant that a by-election was scheduled but would never actually be held. The by-elections were superseded by the general election at the dissolution of parliament on August 2, 2015 and the dropping of the federal election writ.\n\nAs the Senate of Canada is an appointed rather than elected body, vacancies in that body are simply filled with a new appointment.\n\nBy-elections are also held to fill vacancies in Canada's provincial or territorial legislatures.\n\nA by-election is usually called when an incumbent MP vacates his or her seat in a SMC or when all MPs vacates their seat together in a GRC. \n\nIn a recent case according to then Minister in the Prime Minister's Office Chan Chun Sing, a by-election need not be called if a GRC MP resigns or is incapacitated in any way. The reason is the GRC scheme is meant to achieve two purposes: Ensure there are enough minority members in the House and ensure no political campaigning is done on issues of race and religion. These goals would not be affected if one member of the GRC left, Mr Chan added. However it did not cater for instances where the minority race MP vacates their seat hence the SDP filed a suit to clarify the matter. The High Court judge rejected the bid to hold a by-election and SDP withdraws the suit after a thorough explanation by the Deputy AG.\n\n, the New Zealand House of Representatives has 70 seats whose members represent geographical constituencies, and a further 52 seats selected from party lists. A vacancy in any of the 70 \"electorate seats\" is filled through a by-election. The writ for the by-election must, in most circumstances, be issued within 21 days of the notification of the vacancy. A by-election is not required if Parliament is due to expire within six months.\n\nBy contrast, a vacancy in one of the \"list seats\" is filled by the next available candidate on the list submitted by the party holding that seat.\n\nThe term \"casual vacancy\" is not commonly used in the United States. A vacancy in the House of Representatives is filled by a special election. The Constitution requires the executive authority (i.e. the governor) of the state concerned to issue writs of election.\n\nThe seventeenth amendment provides that vacancies in the Senate filled by an appointment by the governor unless the legislature of the state concerned has passed a law providing some other means to fill the vacancy, such as a popular election.\n"}
{"id": "28033539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28033539", "title": "CeSID", "text": "CeSID\n\nThe Center for Free Elections and Democracy ( / \"Centar za slobodne izbore i demokratiju\"), or CeSID, is a non-governmental, non-profit organization in Serbia. Founded in 1997, the organization deals with election monitoring in Serbia and the parallel counting up of the votes. CeSID last enclosed about 21000 volunteers/observers, 165 regional teams, 16 local and 5 regional offices.\n\n"}
{"id": "51097123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51097123", "title": "Content Disarm &amp; Reconstruction", "text": "Content Disarm &amp; Reconstruction\n\nContent Disarm & Reconstruction (CDR) is a computer security technology for removing malicious code from files. Unlike malware analysis, CDR technology does not determine or detect malware's functionality but removes all file components that are not approved within the system's definitions and policies.\n\nIt is used to prevent cyber security threats from entering a corporate network perimeter. Channels that CDR can be used to protect include email and website traffic. Advanced solutions can also provide similar protection on computer endpoints, or cloud email and file sharing services.\n\nCDR works by processing all incoming files of an enterprise network, deconstructing them, and removing the elements that do not match the file type's standards or set policies. CDR technology then rebuilds the files into clean versions that can be sent on to end users as intended.\n\nBecause CDR removes all potentially malicious code, it can be effective against zero-day vulnerabilities that rely on being an unknown threat that other security technologies would need to patch against to maintain protection.\n\nCDR can be used to prevent cyber threats from variety of sources:\n\n\n\nGlasswall Solutions Whitepaper discusses how organisations can protect themselves from such email attachment threats by integrating highly-detailed, unique analytics and file-regeneration technology.\n"}
{"id": "43070186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43070186", "title": "Deportations of Hungarians to the Czech lands", "text": "Deportations of Hungarians to the Czech lands\n\nDeportations of Hungarians to the Czech lands were a series of mass deportations of Hungarian population from southern Slovakia to Czech lands by Czechoslovak authorities. Deportations took place during the period from 1945 to 1947.\n\nPresidential Decree No. 071/1945 Coll. (\"concerning the work duty of persons that had lost Czechoslovak citizenship\") and No. 88/1945 Coll. (\"concerning universal work duty\") authorized the Czechoslovak administration to draft people into paid labor service for the maximum period of one year in order to redress some of the war damages. Under the disguise of \"labor recruiting\", the deportation of Hungarians from South Slovakia began to the recently vacated Czech borderlands. Those who could not prove that they either remained loyal to the Czechoslovakia during the war, or that they took part in liberation, or that they were subject to Nazi terror, also had their property confiscated under Presidential Decree No. 108/1945 Coll. (\"concerning the confiscation of enemy property and on the Fund for National Restoration\"). The transit trains were labelled as \"voluntary agricultural workers\". In fact, the real goal was to alter the ethnic composition of South Slovakia. These \"labor recruitings\" were named by Czech historian Karel Kaplan as \"internal colonizations\", and according to him their \"political aim... was to transfer a part of the Hungarian minority away from the Hungarian border and to destroy it as a compact territorial unit. This colonization also had an immediate industrial goal – to provide the depopulated areas with a workforce\".\n\nBetween July and August 1946, under the slogan \"Slovak agricultural labor assisting the Czech lands\", more Hungarians were deported to Czech lands. Eventually, 40,000-45,000-50,000 Hungarians were deported to Czech territories recently cleared of Sudeten Germans, but also to the other areas where labor force was required. While their properties in Slovakia were confiscated, they obtained the former Sudeten Germans' properties. According to the Slovak National Archives, 41,666 Hungarians had been deported from southern Slovakia.\nHungarians who stayed in Slovakia became the targets of the Slovak assimilation efforts.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14110334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14110334", "title": "Electoral districts of Poland", "text": "Electoral districts of Poland\n\nElectoral districts of Poland () are defined by Polish election law. Electoral districts can be divided depending on whether they are individual entities or parts of a larger electoral district with regard to elections to 1) parliament (Sejm) and Senate 2) local offices and 3) European Parliament. Each district has a number of mandates calculated on the basis of its population.\n\n"}
{"id": "43217101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43217101", "title": "Equality Hawaii", "text": "Equality Hawaii\n\nEquality Hawaii was a statewide political advocacy organization in Hawaii that advocated for lesbian, gay, bisexual, and transgender (LGBT) rights, including same-sex marriage.\n\nEquality Hawaii was founded as Family Equality Coalition on November 16, 2007 as a 501(c)(4) nonprofit corporation. It was founded based on community and expert input at the organization's first meeting in September 2007 after a civil unions bill was attempted in February 2007. The organization made an early commitment to advocating for same-sex marriage in Hawaii. The first general membership meeting was held in partnership with UNITE HERE Local 5 and featured Cleve Jones. In 2010, the board elected to change its name to Equality Hawaii to reflect its scope expanding beyond just same-sex marriage.\n\nOriginally named Family Equality Foundation, Equality Hawaii Foundation (EHF) was founded on October 27, 2009 as a 501(c)(3) nonprofit corporation. While its 501(c)(3) application was being approved by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS), the organization was fiscally sponsored by the Equality Federation Institute. This allowed the organization to immediately pursue grant funding. The organization received its official designation from the IRS on June 5, 2011.\n\nEquality Hawaii Action Fund was founded August 13, 2010 as a 527 organization. It was formed in response to Governor of Hawaii Linda Lingle vetoing a 2010 civil unions bill; opponents of legal recognition of same-sex relationships had made public pledges to remove from office any legislators who supported civil unions; and Gubernatorial candidates Mufi Hannemann and Duke Aiona were promising to not only veto any future civil unions legislation, but put the issue on the ballot.\n\nEquality Hawaii was a founding member and fiscal agent of Hawaii United for Marriage, a coalition of organizations that advocated for the Hawaii Marriage Equality Act, which was signed into law on November 13, 2013 by Governor Neil Abercrombie, and same-sex couples began marrying on December 2, 2013.\n\nFrom 2013 - 2016 Equality Hawaii worked to pass key legislation to empower and protect Hawaii’s LGBTQ community; enabling transgender people to change the gender identity maker on official documents and preventing health insurers from discriminating against them. In 2016 Equality Hawaii formed a strategic alliance to share networks and resources with the Hawaii LGBT Legacy Foundation, an organization dedicated to unifying, facilitating and empowering Hawaii’s LGBTQ community. \n\nEquality Hawaii ceased operations in January 2017. \n\nEquality Hawaii is often used to describe three separate organizations:\n\nEquality Hawaii activities and programs included:\n\n"}
{"id": "4205059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4205059", "title": "EuropaBio", "text": "EuropaBio\n\nEuropaBio (\"The European Association for Bioindustries\") is Europe's largest and most influential biotech industry group, whose members include Monsanto, Bayer and other biotechnology companies. The organisation was initiated in 1996 to represent the interests of the biotechnology industry at European level and therefore influence legislation that serves the interests of biotechnology companies in Europe.\n\nEuropaBio is engaged in dialogue with the European Parliament, the European Commission and the Council of Ministers to influence legislation on biotechnology.\n\nEuropaBio represents the three traditional sectors of the biotech industry. \n\nEuropaBio's stated goals are to:\n\nEuropaBio's primary focus is the European Union but because of the global character of the biotech business, it also represents its members in transatlantic and worldwide forums.\n\nEuropaBio believes there is \"an urgent need to reshape the terms of the debate about GM in Europe.\"\n\nIn an effort to transform European policy relating to the production and distribution of genetically modified foods within the EU, EuropaBio has proposed the creation of an \"outreach program.\" This entails recruiting high-profile \"ambassadors\" in an effort to sway opinion on GM policy by lobbying European leaders directly. A public relations company working for EuropaBio claimed that a number of well known public figures had expressed interest in the ambassadorial positions. EuropaBio intends to introduce the ambassadors to high-level European bureaucrats and MEPs in with the goal of making a stronger case for GM within EU institutions.\n\nEuropaBio has a board of management made up of representatives from among its industry members. Since June 2018, Tjerk de Ruiter Corbion is Chairman of the Board. \n\nThe Board is assisted by sectoral councils representing the main segments of EuropaBio - healthcare (red biotech), industrial (white biotech) and agriculture (green biotech).\n\nExperts from member companies and national associations participate in EuropaBio's working groups which cover a very wide range of issues and areas of concern of biotech enterprises.\n\nSince June 2017 EuropaBio Secretary General is John Brennan. Before his appointment, Nathalie Moll led the association as Secretary General for 7 years.\n\nIn 2018, the association represents 78 corporate and associate members and BioRegions and 15 national biotechnology associations. \nThrough the national associations, EuropaBio represents 1800 small and medium-sized enterprises.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37590770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37590770", "title": "European Capitals and Cities of Sport Federation", "text": "European Capitals and Cities of Sport Federation\n\nThe European Capitals and Cities of Sport Federation (ACES Europe) is a non-profit federation based in Brussels which \nhas granted the awards of European Capital, City, Community and Town of Sport every year since 2001.\n\nThese awards are given for a period of one calendar year.\n\nThe European Capital of Sport is awarded to a municipality that has an official population of 500,000 or more inhabitants in the European continent:\n\nThe European Community of Sport is a title awarded to a community consisting of a maximum of three municipalities, which together have a population of between 25,000 and 499,999 inhabitants, in the European continent.\n\nThe European City of Sport is a title awarded to a municipality that has an official population of between 25,000 and 499,999 inhabitants, in the European continent.\n\nThe European Town of Sport is a title awarded to a municipality that has an official population of between 1 and 24,999 inhabitants, in the European continent.\n\n"}
{"id": "58391294", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58391294", "title": "Food labelling and advertising law (Chile)", "text": "Food labelling and advertising law (Chile)\n\nChile's food labelling and advertising law, formally titled \"Ley 20.606, sobre la composición de los alimentos y su publicidad\" (“Law 20.606, on the nutritional composition of foods and their advertising”) establishes a regulatory framework on food security and healthy food with the intention of guiding consumers towards behaviour patterns that promote public health. After the 2012 law was enacted, its accompanying regulations came into full force on June 27, 2016. Andrew Jacobs, writing for \"The New York Times\", has characterized this measure as \"the world’s most ambitious attempt to remake a country’s food culture\" and suggests it \"could be a model for how to turn the tide on a global obesity epidemic that researchers say contributes to four million premature deaths a year.\"\n\nIn Chile, the law — often referred to by less cumbersome names such as \"ley de etiquetado de alimentos\" (“food labelling law”), \"ley del Súper Ocho\" (“Super Eight law”), or simply \"ley de alimentos\" (“food law”) — specifically regulates the delivery of nutritional information on foods high in sodium, saturated fats, sugars or calories. The standard also prohibits the sale of such foods in educational institutions, and limits the advertising of these products to children under fourteen.\n\nAccording to a 2010 national health survey, more than 60 percent of Chile’s population suffers from excessive weight. The problem begins early in childhood, with more than 10 percent of children under six, more than 15 percent of preschoolers and more than 25 percent of first-grade children presenting with obesity. When the overweight and the obese children are considered as a group, more than 50 percent of them, according to the Chilean Ministry of Health, are found to suffer from malnutrition, which is considered the main public health problem in the country.\n\nThe law has eleven articles; its stipulations establish: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nHealth ministry decree No. 13 (April 16, 2015), amended the government's processed foods regulation to adapt it to the provisions of Law 20.606 and specifying maximum calories, sodium, sugars and saturated fats in food; the values were set to diminish by progressive stages after the regulation's entry into force. The limits stipulated by law are:\n\nThe regulation also detailed the foods that are exempted from the labelling obligation, which includes foods without added sugars, honey or syrups; without added sodium and without saturated fats; those sold in bulk or portioned out, divided and prepared at the request of the public (even if they are packaged at the time of sale); infant formula; commercially prepared minced baby food, unless they contain added sugar; food prepared for medical use; food for weight control regimens; dietary supplements and certain foods for athletes; and table-top sugar substitutes.\n\nSeveral countries have expressed interest in the Chilean standards and have considered their content in developing their own countries' labelling regulations, including Argentina, Australia, Brazil, Canada, Ecuador, Guatemala, Honduras, Israel, Mexico, New Zealand, Nicaragua, Panama, Peru, El Salvador and Uruguay.\n\nIn addition, international organizations — including the Caribbean Community (CARICOM), the Pan American Health Organization, the UN's Food and Agriculture Organization and World Health Organization, the Union of South American Nations and the OECD — have expressed support for the Chilean food labelling and advertising law and regulations and have facilitated bilateral cooperation, memoranda of understanding and the establishment of international networks. Codex Alimentarius has urged member countries to revise regulations on labelling, while the World Trade Organization has established international discussion panels on food labelling, at which Chile has been a prominent speaker.\n\nIn addition, during North American Free Trade Agreement negotiations, the governments of Mexico and Canada have advocated for nutritional warnings on foods, inspired by the Chilean experience, but the current United States government has supported efforts of the commercial food and beverage industry to prevent the adoption of laws similar to Chile's by demanding NAFTA clauses forbidding the enactment of such consumer safety laws in Canada, Mexico and the United States.” Lora Verheecke, a researcher at the Corporate Europe Observatory, a non-profit group tracking corporate lobbying, has declared that once such pro-industry and anti-consumer rules are enshrined into international trade agreements, it becomes extremely difficult to overturn them in the laws of trade-pact member states: “It kind of kills a law before it can be written, and once you put it into one trade agreement, it can become the precedent for all future deals with future countries.”\n"}
{"id": "33684196", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33684196", "title": "Formal and effective rights", "text": "Formal and effective rights\n\nFormal and effective rights refers to the distinction between the theoretical rights of legalism and the measurable rights within implemented policies. It is argued that the gap between the two concepts stems from the difficulties in realising the theoretical concepts into manageable effective rights. Also, while there is a greater consensus regarding the formal rights, due partly on diplomacy motives, the actual implementation process is much more complex.\n\n"}
{"id": "10980", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10980", "title": "Four Freedoms", "text": "Four Freedoms\n\nThe Four Freedoms were goals articulated by United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt on Monday, January 6, 1941. In an address known as the (technically the 1941 State of the Union address), he proposed four fundamental freedoms that people \"everywhere in the world\" ought to enjoy:\n\n\nRoosevelt delivered his speech 11 months before the surprise Japanese attack on U.S. forces in Pearl Harbor, Hawaii that caused the United States to declare war on Japan, December 8, 1941. The State of the Union speech before Congress was largely about the national security of the United States and the threat to other democracies from world war that was being waged across the continents in the eastern hemisphere. In the speech, he made a break with the tradition of United States non-interventionism that had long been held in the United States. He outlined the U.S. role in helping allies already engaged in warfare.\n\nIn that context, he summarized the values of democracy behind the bipartisan consensus on international involvement that existed at the time. A famous quote from the speech prefaces those values: \"As men do not live by bread alone, they do not fight by armaments alone.\" In the second half of the speech, he lists the benefits of democracy, which include economic opportunity, employment, social security, and the promise of \"adequate health care\". The first two freedoms, of speech and religion, are protected by the First Amendment in the United States Constitution. His inclusion of the latter two freedoms went beyond the traditional Constitutional values protected by the U.S. Bill of Rights. Roosevelt endorsed a broader human right to economic security and anticipated what would become known decades later as the \"human security\" paradigm in social science and economic development. He also included the \"freedom from fear\" against national aggression and took it to the new United Nations he was setting up.\n\nIn the 1930s many Americans, arguing that the involvement in World War I had been a mistake, were adamantly against continued intervention in European affairs. With the Neutrality Acts established after 1935, U.S. law banned the sale of armaments to countries that were at war and placed restrictions on travel with belligerent vessels.\n\nWhen World War II began in September 1939, the neutrality laws were still in effect, and ensured that no substantial support could be given to Britain and France. With the revision of the Neutrality Act in 1939, Roosevelt adopted a \"methods-short-of-war policy\" whereby supplies and armaments could be given to European Allies, provided no declaration of war could be made and no troops committed. By December 1940, Europe was largely at the mercy of Adolf Hitler and Germany's Nazi regime. With Germany's defeat of France in June 1940, Britain and its overseas Empire stood alone against the military alliance of Germany, Italy, and Japan. Winston Churchill, as Prime Minister of Britain, called for Roosevelt and the United States to supply them with armaments in order to continue with the war effort.\n\nThe 1939 New York World's Fair had celebrated Four Freedoms - religion, speech, press and assembly - and commissioned Leo Friedlander to create sculptures representing them. Mayor of New York City Fiorello La Guardia described the resulting statues as the \"heart of the fair\". Later Roosevelt would declare his own \"Four Essential Freedoms\" and call on Walter Russell to create a \"Four Freedoms Monument\" that was eventually dedicated at Madison Square Garden in New York City.\n\nThe Four Freedoms Speech was given on January 6, 1941. Roosevelt's hope was to provide a rationale for why the United States should abandon the isolationist policies that emerged from World War I. In the address, Roosevelt critiqued Isolationism, saying: \"No realistic American can expect from a dictator's peace international generosity, or return of true independence, or world disarmament, or freedom of expression, or freedom of religion–or even good business. Such a peace would bring no security for us or for our neighbors. \"Those, who would give up essential liberty to purchase a little temporary safety, deserve neither liberty nor safety.\"\n\nThe speech coincided with the introduction of the Lend-Lease Bill, which promoted Roosevelt's plan to become the \"arsenal of democracy\" and support the Allies (mainly the British) with much-needed supplies. Furthermore, the speech established what would become the ideological basis for America's involvement in World War II, all framed in terms of individual rights and liberties that are the hallmark of American politics.\n\nThe speech delivered by President Roosevelt incorporated the following text, known as the \"Four Freedoms\":\n\n     In the future days, which we seek to make secure, we look forward to a world founded upon four essential human freedoms.<br>     The first is freedom of speech and expression—everywhere in the world.<br>     The second is freedom of every person to worship God in his own way—everywhere in the world.<br>     The third is freedom from want—which, translated into world terms, means economic understandings which will secure to every nation a healthy peacetime life for its inhabitants—everywhere in the world.<br>     The fourth is freedom from fear—which, translated into world terms, means a world-wide reduction of armaments to such a point and in such a thorough fashion that no nation will be in a position to commit an act of physical aggression against any neighbor—anywhere in the world.<br>     That is no vision of a distant millennium.<br>     It is a definite basis for a kind of world attainable in our own time and generation.<br>     That kind of world is the very antithesis of the so-called new order of tyranny which the dictators seek to create with the crash of a bomb.\nThe declaration of the Four Freedoms as a justification for war would resonate through the remainder of the war, and for decades longer as a frame of remembrance. The Freedoms became the staple of America's war aims, and the center of all attempts to rally public support for the war. With the creation of the Office of War Information (1942), as well as the famous paintings by Norman Rockwell, the Freedoms were advertised as values central to American life and examples of American exceptionalism.\n\nThe Four Freedoms Speech was popular, and the goals were influential in the postwar politics. However, in 1941 the speech received heavy criticism from anti-war elements. Critics argued that the Four Freedoms were simply a charter for Roosevelt's New Deal, social reforms that had already created sharp divisions within Congress. Conservatives who opposed social programs and increased government intervention argued against Roosevelt's attempt to justify and depict the war as necessary for the defense of lofty goals.\n\nWhile the Freedoms did become a forceful aspect of American thought on the war, they were never the exclusive justification for the war. Polls and surveys conducted by the United States Office of War Information (OWI) revealed that \"self-defense\", and vengeance for the attack on Pearl Harbor were still the most prevalent reasons for war.\n\nIn a 1942 radio address, President Roosevelt declared the Four Freedoms embodied \"rights of men of every creed and every race, wherever they live.\"\n\nOn February 19, 1942, President Roosevelt authorized Japanese American internment and internment of Italian Americans with Executive Order 9066, which allowed local military commanders to designate \"military areas\" as \"exclusion zones,\" from which \"any or all persons may be excluded.\" This power was used to declare that all people of Japanese ancestry were excluded from the entire Pacific coast, including all of California and much of Oregon, Washington and Arizona, except for those in internment camps. By 1946, the United States had incarcerated 120,000 individuals of Japanese descent, of whom about 80,000 had been born in the United States.\n\nThe concept of the Four Freedoms became part of the personal mission undertaken by First Lady Eleanor Roosevelt regarding her inspiration behind the United Nations Declaration of Human Rights, General Assembly Resolution 217A. Indeed, these Four Freedoms were explicitly incorporated into the preamble to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which reads, \"\"Whereas\" disregard and contempt for human rights have resulted in barbarous acts which have outraged the conscience of mankind, and the advent of a world in which human beings shall enjoy freedom of speech and belief and freedom from fear and want has been proclaimed the highest aspiration of the common people...\"\n\nFDR called for \"a world-wide reduction of armaments\" as a goal for \"the future days, which we seek to make secure\" but one that was \"attainable in our own time and generation.\" More immediately, though, he called for a massive build-up of U.S. arms production:\n\nEvery realist knows that the democratic way of life is at this moment being directly assailed in every part of the world... The need of the moment is that our actions and our policy should be devoted primarily—almost exclusively—to meeting this foreign peril. ...[T]he immediate need is a swift and driving increase in our armament production. ...I also ask this Congress for authority and for funds sufficient to manufacture additional munitions and war supplies of many kinds, to be turned over to those nations which are now in actual war with aggressor nations. ...Let us say to the democracies...\n\nThe Franklin D. Roosevelt Four Freedoms Park is a park designed by the architect Louis Kahn for the south point of Roosevelt Island. The Park celebrates the famous speech, and text from the speech is inscribed on a granite wall in the final design of the Park.\n\nThe Roosevelt Institute honors outstanding individuals who have demonstrated a lifelong commitment to these ideals. The Four Freedoms Award medals are awarded at ceremonies at Hyde Park, New York and Middelburg, Netherlands during alternate years. The awards were first presented in 1982 on the centenary of President Roosevelt's birth as well as the bicentenary of diplomatic relations between the United States and the Netherlands.\n\nAmong the laureates have been:\n\nRoosevelt's speech inspired a set of four paintings by Norman Rockwell.\n\nThe members of the set, known collectively as \"The Four Freedoms\", were published in four consecutive issues of \"The Saturday Evening Post\". The four paintings subsequently were displayed around the US by the United States Department of the Treasury.\nEach painting was published with a matching essay on that particular \"Freedom\":\n\nRockwell's \"Four Freedoms\" paintings were reproduced as postage stamps by the United States Post Office in 1943, in 1946, and in 1994, the centenary of Rockwell's birth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34664341", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34664341", "title": "Gujarat Marine Police", "text": "Gujarat Marine Police\n\nGujarat Marine Police was set up for peacetime patrol of the state's coastline including coastal area and inshore sea due to the proximity to the Pakistan border as well as the presence of important structures like petroleum refinery. It has been envisaged as the first line of defence along Gujarat's coastline to patrol a radius of 10 km from the shore. Thereafter, the Indian Coast Guard is responsible for the area, with the Indian Navy guarding the area beyond that. Currently, this area is secured by the Indian Coast Guard. \n\nBased on the recommendations of the Group of Ministers on ‘Reforming the National Security System’, the Coastal Security Scheme Phase-1\nwas approved by the Cabinet Committee on Security (CCS) in January 2005 for implementation over five years starting from 2005-06. \nThereafter Gujarat Marine Police was inaugurated in November 2006 with the centre and the state sharing the cost on a 50:50 basis as per Coastal Security Scheme. \n\nThe first phase of Coastal Security Scheme consisting of setting up ten stations including those at Bhadreshwar (Bhuj), Bhatiya (Jamnagar), Harshadmata (Jamnagar), Bedi (Jamnagar), Nawabandar (Jamnagar)\nBhavnagar (Bhavnagar), Somnath (Junagadh), Pipavav (Amreli), Porbandar(Porbandar), Hazira (Surat) 25 check posts, 46 outpost and the procurement of 30 boats GSL Interceptor Speed Boat have already been completed. \n\nThe Phase two consisting of expansion and strengthening with additional 31 patrol boats, 1,000 trained police officers (including 900 constabulary and 100 police officers) and 12 marine police stations is currently under progress as on 2012.\n\nPresently personnel are drawn from police in state. The Indian Coast Guard provide training to them, usually of 15 days. This practice may be discontinued. In future Gujarat marine police may directly recruit specially trained personnel. A marine police academy is also being proposed for future recruitment.\n\nThe Gujarat state is also raising a Gujarat Marine State Reserve Police (SRP) that will get into act in case of emergency, particularly when the Marine police is busy patrolling in the sea.\n\nThe eight groups of Marine SRP are going to be headed by a DIG rank officer, who will be holding a post of marine task force commander. He will be assisted by a superintendent of police whose post is marine sector commander followed by deputies called marine sector leaders. Below them are eight police inspectors, each heading the groups. Each group will consist of five units, which will be headed by an officer of police sub-inspector rank.\n\nThere will be 42 head constables and 276 constables working as marine commandos.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31835707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31835707", "title": "Homeshare", "text": "Homeshare\n\nHomeshare (also called sharehome) is the exchange of housing for help in the home. A householder, typically an older person with a spare room, offers free or low-cost accommodation to another person in exchange for an agreed level of support. The support may include companionship, shopping, household tasks, gardening, care of pets and, increasingly, help to use the computer. Homeshare thus provides a solution to the needs of two groups of people - those in need of affordable housing, often younger people, and those in need of some support to live at home, usually older people. Homeshare programmes, many run by voluntary bodies, have taken root in at least thirteen countries worldwide, some of them with public funding.\n\nHomeshare was originally set up to benefit older people who needed support to live independently, but the concept is flexible and can be adapted to meet local needs and circumstances. Homeshare is directly benefiting many people across the globe, including:\n\n\nThe direct benefits to a Householder include; help with daily living, companionship and the security of having someone in the house, especially at night. There are even recorded instances of homesharers saving lives; for example a German homesharer called the emergency services when the householder had a heart attack. Other benefits include: breaking down the barriers between generations and different cultures, fostering mutual understanding and tolerance. For instance, in an Australian program, an elderly Italian lady successfully shared her home with a Pakistani Muslim homesharer.\n\nOthers benefit indirectly. Families of Householders speak of the reassurance that their loved one has someone in the house, looking out for their welfare. Public services benefit too, as homeshare can delay the need for costly services such as residential care.\n\nThe following case study from the UK indicates how homeshare can benefit an older and a younger person.\n\nHomeshare programmes are diverse in terms of how they operate. Some are run on a ‘counselling’ model, whereby programme coordinators screen potential candidates, match them skilfully, negotiate a contract, monitor the outcome and provide ongoing support to both parties (called ‘match-up programs’ in the USA). Others are run on the ‘referral’ model, where the programme coordinators interview applicants and suggest matches, and it is then up to the applicants to take the arrangements forward. Many USA programs offer both approaches.\n\nHomeshare is usually seen as a free exchange of services, though in some programmes, such as ensemble2generations in France, Homesharers pay a modest rent for their room. Typically the Homesharers get free accommodation however and in return offer a specified number of hours of support: ten hours per week in the UK is usual, while in Germany the hours of support are related to the size of the Homesharer’s room. Either or both applicants may pay a fee to the Homeshare programme to cover administrative, marketing and monitoring costs.\n\nHomeshare has its roots in the USA where the late Maggie Kuhn (founder of the Gray Panthers) set up the first programs in 1972. In the UK, homeshare was taken up in the early 1980s by the late Nan Maitland, who in 1993 launched the first formal programme, in London. In Europe, it is believed that the concept of homeshare was invented quite independently in Spain, where, in 1991 the Alojamiento por Compañia programme was set up in Granada to meet an urgent need for student accommodation. By 1992 the idea had been adopted in Germany where the award-winning Wohnen für Hilfe programme was founded by Professor Anne-Lotte Kreickemeier in Darmstadt, again to meet the need for student accommodation. There are now several programmes in Germany. In France, ensemble2generations, founded in 2006 in the Paris area, is now spreading to other parts of the country.\n\nIn 1999 Nan Maitland went on to launch Homeshare International (HI). Homeshare programmes in Sydney and Melbourne, Australia, were launched in 2000 as a direct result of Homeshare International’s work.\n\nThe concept has now been adopted in many parts of the world. There have been failures too – in Israel and the Czech Republic in the 1990s for example.\n\nHomeshare fits well with the policy agendas of many different countries, where it:\n\nDespite the fact that homeshare meets so many policy aims, public authorities have been slow to adopt it. Some programmes are funded by government, for example in Australia, but others struggle with little or no public financial backing. In part this may be policy makers’ lack of awareness but another factor may be the perceived risk of homeshare. In the UK for example, policy makers are wary of enabling strangers to move in with vulnerable older people, even though there is no single documented case of abuse taking place. The cost of running homeshare programmes may be another factor that limits the spread of the idea, though there is ample evidence that homeshare can be very cost effective in meeting the needs of older people (see Carstein (2003), below).\n\nHomeshare International was set up in 1999 to:\n\nRun entirely by volunteers, Homeshare International runs a multi-lingual website, which is a major resource for practitioners, publishes a directory of known programmes (also on the website) and runs biennial conferences to enable people to meet and share experiences and learning.\n\nIn the UK, Homeshare UK (part of Shared Lives Plus, formerly NAAPS (National Association of Adult Placement Services) supports the promotion and development of Homeshare schemes in the UK and ROI , with a membership of the 23 Homeshare programmes. In the USA, many homeshare programmes are affiliated with the National Shared Housing Resource Center. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "1276176", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1276176", "title": "Hong Kong Police Force", "text": "Hong Kong Police Force\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force (HKPF; ) is the largest disciplined service under the Security Bureau of Hong Kong. It is the world's second, and Asia's first, police agency to operate with a modern policing system. It was formed on 1 May 1844 by the British Hong Kong government with a strength of 32 officers. In 1969, Queen Elizabeth II granted the 'Royal' prefix and the HKPF became the Royal Hong Kong Police Force (RHKP), only to be removed in 1997 upon the transfer of sovereignty of Hong Kong to China.\n\nDue to the one country, two systems principle, the mainland authorities may not interfere with Hong Kong's local law enforcement affairs. Thus, HKPF is completely independent from the jurisdiction of Ministry of Public Security of the People's Republic of China.\n\nHong Kong has been ranked consistently in the top ten positions in the Global Competitiveness Report in terms of its reliability of police services. Including the Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force and civil servants, the force consists of about 34,000 personnel, which gave Hong Kong the second highest police officer/citizen ratio in the world in 2014. The Marine Region with about 3,000 officers and a fleet of 143 vessels in 2009, was the largest such marine division of any civil police force.\n\nThe Hong Kong Police has been serving Hong Kong since shortly after the island was established as a colony in 1841. On 30 April 1841, 12 weeks after the British landed in Hong Kong, Captain Charles Elliot established a police force in the new colony. The first chief of police was Captain William Caine, who also served as the Chief Magistrate.\n\nThe 1950s saw the commencement of Hong Kong's 40-year rise to global prominence, during which time the Hong Kong Police tackled many issues that have challenged Hong Kong's stability. Between 1949 and 1989, Hong Kong experienced several huge waves of immigration from mainland China, most notably 1958–62. In the 1970s and 1980s, large numbers of Vietnamese boat people arrived in Hong Kong, posing challenges first for marine police, secondly for officers who manned the dozens of camps in the territory and lastly for those who had to repatriate them. The force was granted the Royal Charter in 1969 for its handling of the Hong Kong 1967 riots—renaming it: the Royal Hong Kong Police Force .\n\nThe recruitment of Europeans to the force ceased in 1994, and in 1995 the Royal Hong Kong Police took responsibility for patrolling the boundary with China. Prior to 1995, the British Army had operated the border patrol. The Force played a prominent role in the process of handover of sovereignty in 1997 and performs ceremonial flag-raising each anniversary.\n\nIn more recent history, the police force played a prominent role in handling the 2014 Hong Kong protests.\n\nThe current crest of the force was adopted in 1997 so as to retire symbols of British sovereignty. Changes to the crest included: St Edward's Crown replaced with a bauhinia flower; The official title of the force was changed from the monolingual 'Royal Hong Kong Police' to the bilingual '香港 Hong Kong Police 警察'; Badge image changed from one depicting a junk and British ship in Victoria Harbour, to one with a modern view of Hong Kong Island and the modern skyline (Queensway Government Offices, Bank of China Building, City Hall, HSBC Building, and Exchange Square).\n\nChanges to the flag included replacing the Blue Ensign, featuring the old crest, with a single blue flag with the crest centred in the middle.\n\nThe Force is commanded by the Commissioner of Police, who is assisted by two deputy commissioners; a \"Deputy Commissioner – Operations\" supervises all operational matters including crime and a \"Deputy Commissioner – Management\" is responsible for the direction and co-ordination of force management including personnel, training, and management services.\n\nFor day-to-day policing (Operations), the Force is organised into six regions:Hong Kong Island; Kowloon East; Kowloon West; New Territories North; New Territories South; and Marine Region. The Force Headquarters (Management) is made up of five departments: Operations & Support; Crime & Security; Personnel & Training; Management Services; Finance, Administration & Planning.\n\nRegions are largely autonomous in their day-to-day operation and management matters, and each has its own headquarters, which comprises administration and operation wings, Emergency Units, as well as traffic and criminal investigation units. Each region is divided into districts and divisions and, in a few cases, sub-divisions. Currently, there are 23 districts. The policing of Hong Kong Island, Kowloon and the main towns of the New Territories follows a similar pattern. Responsibility for law and order on the Mass Transit Railway, which runs through most police districts, lies with the Railway District.\n\nRailway District based at 2 Siu Yip Street in Kwun Tong is responsible for patrols on the MTR.\n\nPolice Force operational matters are coordinated by the Operations & Support Department. Land Operations and Support are divided into six regions, whereas marine matters are managed by the marine police—organised as one Marine Region. Each land region comprises two wings, the operations wing and support wing, and a traffic headquarters (which is part of the operations wing). The department is charged with the formulation and implementation of policies, the monitoring of activities and the efficient deployment of personnel and resources. Operations Wing coordinates counter-terrorism, internal security, anti-illegal-immigration measures, bomb disposal commitments and contingency planning for natural disasters—they are also responsible for the Police Dog Unit.\n\nThe Operations Wing consists of three sections: The Operations Bureau, the Police Tactical Unit, and the Explosive Ordnance Disposal Bureau.\n\nOperations Bureau comprises the Operations Division, the Counter-Terrorism and Internal Security Division, and the Key Points and Search Division which includes the Police Dog Unit. It deals mainly with the staffing of operational matters which include the formulation and dissemination of relevant Force orders, boundary security, deployment of resources, and liaison with the Hong Kong garrison. The Regional Command and Control Centre in Operations Division provides the means for exercising control over resources both at regional and district levels. It also acts as an information centre for the passage of information to the Headquarters CCC and other agencies. Equipped with the Enhanced Computer Assisted Command and Control System, each Centre receives 999 calls from the public and provides a fast and efficient service to operational officers. The Emergency Unit within the Operations Division is primarily tasked with providing quick responses to emergency situations such as 999 calls, as well as a speedy and additional presence of uniformed police on the ground to combat crime. An EU comprises a headquarters element and four platoons which operate on a three-shift basis.\n\nThe Police Tactical Unit provides an immediate manpower reserve for use in a large-scale emergency. Unit companies are attached to all land Regions and are available for internal security, crowd control, anti-crime operations, disaster response and riot control throughout Hong Kong. The PTU also includes the Special Duties Unit (SDU) which specializes in counter-terrorism and hostage rescue.\n\nExplosive Ordnance Disposal Bureau is a special standalone unit within the Operations and Support Wing. Its main responsibilities are bomb-disposal work both on land and underwater. It also trains officers on explosives-related matters and inspects storage of ammunition and explosives.\n\nOther peripheral section included the Anti-Illegal Immigration Control Centre that is responsible for collecting intelligence and monitoring operations regarding illegal immigrants from Mainland China and Vietnam. Administration Formation implements policies laid down by the Regional Commander and is responsible for the Region's general administration. Its responsibilities include community relations, staff relations, and magistrates. Crime Formation is responsible for investigates serious and inter-district crimes. In addition, it collects, collates and evaluates intelligence on criminals and criminal activity within the Region. The Traffic Branch Headquarters covers traffic control, enforcement of traffic legislation and regulations, investigation of traffic accidents, promotion of road safety, and implementing Force and Regional traffic policies.\n\nEach of the land regions holds its own Support Wing. A Support Wing oversees the execution and staffing of operational support matters, including the formulation of operational policies for both the regular and Hong Kong Auxiliary Police Force and for updating kits and equipment. It is also responsible for the various licensing functions of the Force. The co-ordination of all public relations activities is arranged through the Police Public Relations Branch.\n\nA support wing consists of Traffic Branch, Support Branch, and Police Public Relations Branch.\n\nTraffic Branch Headquarters is responsible for formulating force priorities, policies and procedures on matters related to traffic, coordinating their implementation and monitoring their effects. It processes all traffic prosecutions such as the processing of traffic summons and fixed penalty tickets. It also collects and maintains traffic-related data such as monitoring the changes in traffic legislation. The Traffic Headquarters offers advice on matters, examines local traffic patterns and new major infrastructure projects. It also formulates, monitors, coordinates and evaluates road safety efforts, enforcement programmes and traffic management schemes. It is also responsible for the administration of the Traffic Warden Corps, who assist the Police in the control of traffic and enforcement of parking offences. It comprises the Traffic Management Bureau, Central Traffic Prosecutions Bureau, and Administration Bureau.\n\nSupport Branch is sub-divided into five divisions. Field Division is responsible for coordinating policy matters relating to firearms, equipment, uniforms and operational procedures. Projects undertaken by the Division during the year included the force-wide introduction of the OC Foam and the new, expandable baton. It had also been instrumental in developing technological solutions to a number of policing problems and is currently conducting a review of police uniforms including the cap and the shoes as well as other accoutrements. General Division handles policy matters relating to station procedures; the security and management of the Police Headquarters (PHQ) complex; and diverse other duties. During the year, the Division played a major role in the streamlining of station procedures; making arrangements for the reallocation of offices and facilities; formulating a new policy for parking at the PHQ as required by the PHQ Redevelopment Project and such other duties as coordinating the Force involvement in the District Council elections. Transport Division is responsible for the management and deployment of the Force fleet of approximately 2,400 vehicles, driver establishment and the acquisition of new police vehicles. It also administers all policy matters relating to police transport requirements. Force Data and Access to Information Coordination Unit is responsible for coordinating the Force response to devising internal policy on and ensuring compliance with the provisions of the Personal Data (Privacy) Ordinance and the Code on Access to Information. Police Licensing Office acts as the licensing authority for a number of licences and permits.\n\nPolice Public Relations Branch is responsible for maintaining a high level of public confidence by robustly projecting a positive image of the Force through community and media relations. It is sub-divided into two branches: Community Relations Bureau and Information and Publicity Bureau\n\nCrime & Security Department is responsible for the force policy regarding the investigation of crimes and matters of a security nature. Crime Wing consists of a number of operational bureaux and specialized units. The operational bureaux deal with specific areas of criminal activity whereas the specialized units provide support services to operational units in the force and deal with policy matters on various issues including child abuse, domestic violence, and witness protection. Security Wing provides VIP protection and security co-ordination, including counter-terrorism.\n\nOrganised Crime and Triad Bureau (OCTB or O記) investigate major organised and serious crime involving all types of activities such as theft/smuggling of vehicles, human trafficking, firearms, vice, debt collection, syndicated gambling and extortion. It also investigates triad societies and their hierarchies with particular emphasis on their involvement in organized crime.\n\nCriminal Intelligence Bureau (CIB) is the Force's central co-ordinating body for intelligence on crime and criminality which, after analysis and assessment, is disseminated to crime investigation units as required. In addition, the CIB works closely with the OCTB and other Crime Wing bureaux in tackling triad and organised crime syndicates. To strengthen the criminal intelligence capability within the Force, the Bureau also organises related training courses and seminars for investigators. Criminal Investigation Division or CID are sub-division located in each district.\n\nCommercial Crime Bureau (CCB) investigates serious commercial and business fraud, computer-related crimes, the forgery of monetary instruments, identity documents and payment cards, and the counterfeiting of currency and coins. It liaises very closely with international law enforcement agencies on exchange of intelligence and requests for investigation from other jurisdictions alleging criminal conduct in relation to commercial transactions.\n\nNarcotics Bureau (NB) investigates serious drug cases such as importation and manufacture of illicit drugs and gathers intelligence in relation to major drug activities. It also conducts investigations in partnership with overseas law enforcement agencies whenever there is a Hong Kong connection to international drug trafficking. The Bureau is also responsible for financial investigations using powers granted under the Drug Trafficking (Recovery of Proceeds) Ordinance, Organised and Serious Crimes Ordinance and the United Nations (Anti-Terrorism Measures) Ordinance.\n\nSupport Group is made up of units which provide a technical and professional service to support criminal investigation, including Criminal Records Bureau, Identification Bureau, Forensic Firearms Examination Bureau, Witness Protection Unit, and Child Protection Policy Unit. The group also fulfils a liaison responsibility for the Forensic pathology Service and the Forensic Science Division.\n\nThe Security Wing () is responsible for a range of security-related matters including VIP protection, counter-terrorism and security co-ordination.\n\n\nPersonnel Wing is responsible for all core human resource management functions, including recruitment, promotion, conditions of service, staff relations and welfare matters.\nIn recent years, the Personnel Wing has also asserted the near exclusive right to adjudicate disciplinary proceedings brought against Inspectors and Junior Officers. The establishment of a dedicated unit for this purpose made it easier for senior officers in the Personnel Wing to influence outcomes.\n\nHong Kong Police College is responsible for all matters relating to training within the Hong Kong Police except internal security, Auxiliary, and Marine Police training. Training provided by the Police College includes recruit and continuation training, crime investigation training, police driver training and weapon tactics training. The information technology training, command training, local and overseas management training, some specialist courses and periodic courses on firearms and first aid are also provided by the Police College.\n\n\nInformation Systems Wing has two branches and one bureau dealing with communications, information technology, and business services.\n\nCommunications Branch designs, acquires, examines, and maintains all force communications networks and equipment including radio, video, navigational aids, speed detection radar, mobile phones, pagers, office telephones and mini firing range equipment. Information Technology Branch is responsible for the planning, development, implementation, operation and maintenance of information technology systems. It has over 10,000 terminals installed throughout Hong Kong supporting the Force in the spheres of command and control, criminal records, crime intelligence analysis, fingerprint identification, reports to Police, human and financial resources planning and management, transport management, licensing, and e-mail. Business Services Bureau coordinates the business needs of the five departments of the Force. It consists of the Business Services Division, the e-Police Division and the Major Systems Division which acts as the System \"Owner\" for systems used Force-wide.\n\nService Quality Wing is responsible for spearheading initiatives to improve services provided to force customers both external and internal. The wing comprises three branches: Performance Review, Research and Inspections, and Complaints and Internal Investigations (C&II). The Wing is responsible for implementing the force strategy on 'service quality' which aims at promoting efficiency, effectiveness and economy, whilst pursuing continuous improvement. The C&II Branch which includes the Complaints Against Police Office (CAPO) oversees the investigation and successful resolution of all complaints made both externally and internally against members of the force. The work of CAPO is closely monitored by the Independent Police Complaints Council to ensure that all complaints against police officers and traffic wardens are fully and impartially investigated. The findings of CAPO are then endorsed by the IPCC subject to their queries which is not rare after the enactment of IPCC Ordinance in 2009.\n\nFinance Wing is responsible for the financial management, stores, and internal audit of the Force. Administration Wing is responsible for civilian staff, force establishment matters, and the management of the Police Museum. Planning and Development Branch(P&D) coordinates strategic thinking and planning on options for the operational policing of Hong Kong into the foreseeable future. It is responsible for maintaining and modernizing the police estate and for running projects for the construction of new police buildings/facilities.\n\nThe HKPF continues to use similar ranks and insignia to those used in British police forces. Until 1997, the St Edward's Crown was used in the insignia, when it was replaced with the Bauhinia flower crest of the Hong Kong government. Pips were modified with the Bauhinia flower in the middle replacing the insignia from the Order of the Bath. The crest of the force was modified in 1997. The rank structure, organisation and insignia are similar to those used by the Metropolitan Police Service until the mid-1970s.\n\nGazetted\nInspectorate \nJunior Police Officer (Rank and File)\nUp until 1997, uniforms and hats had distinctions according to their rank. For example, senior constable and sergeant ranks are plastic ranks on the sleeve of the uniform. SDU, Marine Police, and the Counterterrorism Response Unit have their ranks at the back of the helmet or vest. Inspector to senior superintendent ranks have a insignia on the collar of the uniform. Superintendents also have a white stripe fitted on the police hat. Chief Superintendents and up have a white stripe on their hats, a slide with a silver vertical line on the collar of the uniform, a black baton, and a red whistle or a black and white whistle on the front right pocket. Until 1972, the Commissioner of Police ranks was two pips over a wreathed and crossed batons.\n\nCurrent uniforms were changed after 2001. Hong Kong Police Force uniform currently comprises:\n\nUniform Branch: Dark navy blue jacket with the words 'Police', in English and Chinese, in reflective white tape, on the front left breast and back. Light blue shirts are worn by most officers, whilst white shirts are worn by senior officers. Dark blue cargo trousers and black caps are worn by all officers.\n\nTactical Units: these uniforms are identical to those of the Uniform Branch officers, although berets are worn rather than caps and trousers are tucked into boots. Riot helmets are worn for riot control.\n\nTraffic branch: Reflective yellow jacket and navy blue riding trousers. In warmer weather, reflective vests with white sleeves are an alternative.\n\nFrom the return of HKPF, all patrol officers and inspectors had their whistle taken off. The same summer uniform and winter uniform was worn until 2005.\n\nSenior Constable, Sergeant and Station Sergeant ranks had their ranks moved to their shoulder slides.\n\nThey are white or dark tunic. Sword design was based on 1897 pattern British infantry officer's sword and used for formal occasions such as parade out or Legal Opening Day. They are fitted with a black whistle on the front right pocket and insignia on the collar for commissioned officers. A Sam Browne belt is worn too.\n\nSummer Uniform: Green Khaki drill tropical shirts and trousers or Bermuda shorts, worn with black Sam Browne Belts. Females wore summer beige shirts with skirts. This uniform was worn until about 2005 when the force switched to a slightly modernized version of the Winter Uniform, to be worn all year round. The Green uniform can be seen in some of the older Hong Kong and Hollywood movies.\n\nWinter Uniform: Cornflower blue (or white, for commissioned officers) shirts with necktie, worn under a navy blue tunic and Sam Browne Belt, with navy blue uniform trousers. Tunic may be removed under warmer weather.\n\nUntil 1998, all officers were fitted with a black whistle, red whistle, or black and white whistles on the front right pocket.\n\nMost police vehicles in Hong Kong are white, with a blue and red 3M retroreflective stripe around on the sides of the vehicle with wording \"警 Police 察\" in white, the only exception being the armoured personnel carriers specially designed for the Police Tactical Unit, which are wholly dark blue and with wording \"警 Police 察\" on a light blue background in white on the sides of the vehicle. Most police vehicles in Hong Kong are equipped with both red and blue emergency vehicle lighting. The vehicles which are assigned to airport duties have additional yellow emergency vehicle lighting. All police vehicles are government property and so bear licence plates starting with \"AM\".\n\nSince 2008, the Hong Kong Police Force have brought in the use of Battenburg markings for new police vehicles of the Traffic Branch Headquarters. In addition, these new vehicles show the Force crest on the front part of the vehicle, which the Force has not used in the design of new vehicles for the last two decades.\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force have unmarked police vehicles to catch and arrest criminals in the act; such vehicles include the discreet and high performance BMW M5 cars, among other types. Also, the Force operate unmarked police vehicles for surveillance to gather evidence of any criminal offence. In addition, for security purposes, armoured cars specially designed for the VIP Protection Unit (VIPPU) and bulletproof tactical police vehicles specially designed for the Special Duties Unit have no markings also.\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force has ordered 10 new electric scooters for their officers to help reduce pollution in central Hong Kong. Emergency Unit, Police Tactical Unit, and Traffic Police have identification markings on the back of the car (no motorcycles of Traffic Police), for example, PTUD 1/3. This means PTU D Team 1st Team 3rd car. EU is like this: EUKW 23. EU means Emergency Unit, KW means Kowloon West, and 23 means the 23rd car of the Kowloon Emergency Unit. Traffic Police cars include TKW 2. T means Traffic Police, KW means Kowloon West, and 2 means the second car of the Kowloon West Traffic Unit. Until 2007, EU, PTU, and TP vehicles have identification markings like this (1/3 PTUD, 23 EUKW, 2 TKW).\n\nExplosive Ordnance Disposal Bureau\n\n\n\nHong Kong faced an economic slump after the end of the Second World War in 1945. Trade was slow, mainland China was experiencing a civil war and thousands of Chinese refugees flooded the British colony to escape the Chinese communist revolution. Police management was under resourced being reliant on its staff sergeants (senior non-commissioned officers), who wielded significant power and influence within their districts, ruling their subordinates with an iron fist.\n\nIt was then that corruption started to tarnish the reputation of the Hong Kong Police. Officers were reputedly poorly paid in comparison with other civil servants and with others in society in general. Some officers accepted bribes to turn a blind eye towards syndicated vice, drugs and illegal gambling activities. During the 1950s and 1960s, syndicated criminals paid regular sums of money to the staff sergeants who, in turn, used couriers and book keepers to share their ill-gotten gains amongst the officers and constables of their respective police districts.\n\nThis became an increasing concern for the colonial government but corruption was overshadowed by the leftist violence and riots that beset Hong Kong in 1967, threatening the stability and very existence of the British colony. In 1969, Her Majesty, Queen Elizabeth II honoured the Force with the 'Royal' title to recognize its loyalty, dedication and efforts to restore law and order during the 1967 disturbances and Princess Alexandra became its Commandant General. The Force thus changed its name to the Royal Hong Kong Police.\n\nAlthough not confined to the police but tarnishing other government departments and the wider business community as well, police corruption re-emerged as a major concern in the early 1970s. The Commissioner of Police, Charles Sutcliffe, ordered investigations to break the culture of corruption and this caused forty-odd Chinese officers to flee Hong Kong with more than HK$80 million cash (about HK$2 million each). Moreover, in 1973, a highly decorated officer, Chief Superintendent Peter Godber, became embroiled in a corruption scandal when Sutcliffe found him to have amassed HK$4.3 million in assets. Godber fled the colony after learning of his intended arrest, prompting a public outcry. These events precipitated formation of the Independent Commission Against Corruption (ICAC) in 1974, which the government gave wide-ranging powers to investigate and bring to justice corrupt elements in Hong Kong society.\n\nThe Hong Kong Police’s official history cites poor pay as one of the primary factors that motivated officers to engage in corruption. This may be true but cannot account for the nature and scale of this activity. Indeed, the eminent historian and Southeast Asia expert, Professor Alfred McKoy classified the severity of the Royal Hong Kong Police’s corruption problem of that time as “level 5” on a five-point rating scale. He describing the phenomenon as involving “a syndication of all organized crime activity by a tightly-structured group of senior police officers.” McKoy asserts, “Unlike the individual variety of police criminality that occurs at stage four, stage-five corruption is highly formalized and often involves a strict system of profit-sharing according to rank.”\n\nAfter Godber's extradition from the UK and subsequent trial and conviction in Hong Kong, the ICAC focused its efforts on the police. Investigators mounted a series of raids on police stations throughout the colony, sometimes bringing lorry loads of officers to ICAC offices for questioning. Police discontent with this situation peaked in 1977 and the government offered an amnesty to all serving officers after junior police officers demonstrated at the Police Headquarters in Wanchai and the ICAC offices near Admiralty. \n\nFollowing the amnesty, the police force re-organised itself, introducing new layers of management, police procedures and supervisory accountability to deter and detect corrupt elements within its ranks. The government also greatly improved police remuneration and overhauled the terms and conditions of their service—arguably removing the incentive for corruption.\n\nResulting from the reforms of 1979 and the early 1980s, the Royal Hong Kong Police regained its good name and reputation, becoming known as Asia's Finest. It developed a strong track record for fighting crime, and enjoyed the reputation of being one of the most professional, efficient, honest and impartial police forces in the Asia Pacific region. The force enjoyed the esteem and confidence of the public it served, as demonstrated by the University of Hong Kong opinion polls between 1997 and 2007. Its popularity peaked in 2007 with a net approval rating of 79 percentage points.\n\nAlthough the media has often dubbed it \"Asia's Finest\", its reputation has taken a serious drubbing under the leadership of the hawkish Andy Tsang, Commissioner between 2011 and 2015. As a result of Tsang's unpopular decisions and comments, the public nicknamed him \"Andy the Vulture\". Approval rating of the police declined markedly from mid-2012, and it plummeted to net approval of 21 percentage points in early 2015.\n\nAccording to a leader in the \"Wall Street Journal\", Tsang is responsible for the politicisation of the police during his tenure, and aligning policing objectives with the state rather than in the interests of justice. The manner in which police officers have appeared to condone or turn a blind eye to assaults against certain groups, particularly heavy-handed treatment of protesters during the \"Umbrella Revolution\", notably procedural escalation of police violence in the face of protesters, through deployment of riot police and 87 instances in which tear gas was released to disperse unarmed students, has also caused disquiet among the public and senior police staffers alike.\n\nDuring Tsang's tenure, reports of alleged police harassment of protesters increased but only because the police were thrust into maintaining public order during the pro-democracy protests of the Umbrella Movement of 2014 ; Accordingly, some interest groups have claimed that the police has turned into a political tool in support of a governance system that is overseeing (wittingly or not) an erosion of the rule of law in favour of \"rule by law\". Fung Wai-wah, president of the Professional Teachers' Union, commented that \"the police [during the Umbrella Revolution] have made themselves enemy of the people\", literally overnight.\n\nSince 2014, there have been reports of police officers involved in sexual assaults on female victims. In one high-profile case involving an officer with six years' service molesting a female within Police Headquarters toilet, the officer was convicted of indecent assault and abuse of power. There had been an incident in 2008, when a woman was raped inside Mong Kok police station by a policeman.\n\nPolice were criticised for violent attacked protesters in October 2014, as well as for allegedly colluding with triads and thugs against peaceful protesters. Seven police officers were suspended after a video tape surfaced of them beating a handcuffed protester in police custody on 15 October 2014, sparking outrage and accusations of police brutality.\n\nThe seven officers were convicted and sentenced to two years in prison in early 2017. The police commissioner, pro-Beijing politicians, and thousands of members of the police unions steadfastly publicly supported and rallied around the convicted criminal officers.\n\nIn December 2014, public satisfaction with the police had declined to 56% (from 62.3% five months earlier); its net satisfaction rate plunged to a record low of 29%, the lowest level since 1997 and lower than that of the PLA Hong Kong Garrison. Pollsters drew the conclusion that the sharp decline was due to policing actions during the 2014 protests, and said that to repair its reputation, the police would need to \"strengthen its professionalism in executing its duties, and also its affection and care for the society. It should not lean towards any political force, nor resort to improper means, just let political problems be resolved in political ways\".\n\nThe Hong Kong Police came under fire for failing to charge police superintendent Franklin Chu King-wai, now retired, who was filmed hitting civilians with a police baton when uniformed officers were directing a line of passers-by to move along after a protest in Mong Kok on 26 November 2014. The day before Chu was due to retire in July 2015, the Independent Police Complaints Council (IPCC) established by a majority decision that a complaint against Chu was justified. The internal Complaints Against Police Office (CAPO) disagreed and sought legal advice from the Department of Justice. Despite the seemingly incontrovertible evidence against Chu, the case remains pending without a prosecution in sight, raising concerns about the partiality of CAPO and the police force as a whole.\n\nIn December 2014, the police caused concern when they applied for Care and Protection Orders (CPO) for two youths, one of whom was arrested during the protests. Police arrested one 14-year-old male for contempt of court during the clearance of Mong Kok and applied for a CPO. The CPO was cancelled four weeks later when the Department of Justice decided that they would not prosecute. In a second case, a 14-year-old female who drew a chalk flower onto the Lennon Wall on 23 December 2014 was arrested on suspicion of criminal damage, but was not charged. A magistrate decided in favour of a CPO pursuant to a police application, deeming it \"safer\". The incident created uproar as she was taken away from her hearing-impaired father, and was unable to go to school. On 19 January, another magistrate rescinded the protection order for \"Chalk Girl\" after reviewing a report from a social worker. The handling of the situation by the police raised concerns, as there was no explanation as to why the police failed to locate and consult a social worker before applying for the order in accordance with proper procedures. Use of the device against minors involved in the Umbrella movement was seen as \"white terror\" to deter young people from protesting.\n\nIn April 2015, police reputation suffered a further blow when a student accused by a police officer of attacking him during the clearance of the Mong Kok occupation on 28 November 2014 was acquitted. In three written statements and during questioning at the witness stand, Constable Lau Kam-wing accused the defendant of approaching him from the front and hitting him in the mouth. Video evidence submitted by an independent witness clearly showed that Lau was in a highly agitated state, and that the defendant was behind him and had not assaulted Lau. Lau changed his testimony under questioning, and again in light of the video evidence. The judge observed that the case was \"highly suspicious\" and that the defendant had been falsely accused; he criticised Lau's wavering testimony and reproached him for being a dishonest and thus unreliable witness. The judge ordered the incident to be referred to the police complaints department, and asked to be kept informed of the progress of the investigation.\n\nIn May 2015, a man was arrested, detained from 2–4 May for in excess of 48 hours and wrongfully accused of murder. The man was autistic, and the police failure to handle such a case sparked controversy. According to the police, the suspect made a written confession of an assault that contradicted severely with statements obtained whilst interviewed with family members. A nursing home later offered the suspect an alibi, corroborated with video evidence, that the man could not have been at the alleged crime scene. Civil rights activists condemned the incident which traumatised a vulnerable individual, and criticised the police procedures including not proposing legal representation, lengthy detention, an methods for obtaining a bogus confession. The police chief expressed \"regret\" but refused to make an apology. Also in May 2015, police procedures for conducting identity parades attracted controversy when suspects in an assault case on television reporters were allowed to wear shower caps and face masks during an identity parade, ostensibly to cover distinctive features, leading to the police abandoning the case due to insufficient evidence. The police stance was confirmed by the new Chief Commissioner.\n\nIn mid-September, media reported that the police had made material deletions from its website concerning \"police history\", in particular, the political cause and the identity of the groups responsible for the 1967 riots. Mention of communists and Maoists were expunged: for example, \"Bombs were made in classrooms of left-wing schools and planted indiscriminately on the streets\" became \"Bombs were planted indiscriminately on the streets\"; the fragment \"waving aloft the Little Red Book and shouting slogans\" disappeared, and an entire sentence criticising the hypocrisy of wealthy pro-China businessmen, the so-called \"red fat cats\" was deleted. The editing gave rise to criticisms that it was being sanitised, to make it appear that the British colonial government, rather than leftists, were responsible. Stephen Lo, the new Commissioner of Police, said the content change of the official website was to simplify it for easier reading; Lo denied that there were any political motives, but his denials left critics unconvinced.\n\nIn October 2015 the Police Public Relations Bureau launched a Facebook page in a bid to improve its public image. The page was immediately inundated with tens of thousands of critical comments, many asking why the seven officers who beat the handcuffed protester a year earlier had not been arrested. In response, the police held a press conference and warned of \"criminal consequences\" for online behaviour.\n\nA police sergeant at the Wan Chai Police Station allegedly absconded on 1 May 2016 with HK$1.07 million (US$140,000) in bail funds. A man remanded on bail who reported to the station on 25 May claimed that an officer told him that the police could not be held liable for the missing money, and made him sign a waiver of claims in relation to the bail money he had posted previously. Although police public relations quickly apologised for the \"misunderstanding\" that had occurred at the Wan Chai station, media criticised top management for being equivocal and evasive about the accountability of the station and also about whether the police officers responsible for the waiver response would be disciplined.\n\nOn 22 February 2017, more than 30,000 persons, including off-duty and former police officers, their family members as well as prominent Hong Kong society members such as former Secretary for Security and former Hong Kong Chief Executive candidate Regina Ip Lau Suk-yee, National People’s Congress deputy Maria Tam and legislators Priscilla Leung Mei-fun, Elizabeth Quat and Junius Ho Kwan-yiu, gathered at the Police Sports and Recreation Club in Mong Kok to express their sympathy for seven police officers who had been convicted and sentenced to two years' imprisonment for assaulting pro-democracy activist Ken Tsang, whom they had earlier arrested (and who was subsequently convicted) for assaulting police. Many observers condemned this as an illegal gathering as the organisers allegedly did not submit formal notice for this public gathering, as requited under Hong Kong's Public Order Ordinance. Some observers claim the gathering and its purpose was unethical as it implied endorsing the use of unlawful or excessive force against arrested persons; and that it improperly supported the actions of the convicted officers while suggesting contempt for the judicial decisions prompting their conviction and sentencing. Rather than disrespecting the judicial decision, other observers assert that the gathering's purpose was to show support for the convicted officers' families while expressing police frustration for being the focus of excessive verbal assaults and abusive insults when maintaining public order during the Umbrella Movement protests of 2014. One officer at the gathering was quoted as saying, “It is a deep and heartfelt expression of genuine support for our colleagues and their families, who we feel have been unfairly treated and whose actions came out of a time of highly charged political emotion and stress.” No matter the divergent points of view, the gathering albeit controversial, was conducted in a peaceful and orderly manner. \n\nDuring the 22 February 2017 police rally, the police speakers said that the treatment officers had received in recent years were similar to the Nazi persecution of Jews during the second world war. This prompted response from the German and Israeli consulate-generals in HK, condemning the remarks. \n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force and its previous incarnation have been the subject of many films and television shows, including the locally produced \"Police Story\" film series, \"The Criminal Investigator\", \"Infernal Affairs\" film series, \"Cold War\", and \"OCTB\". English language films featuring the HKPF include \"Rush Hour\".\n\nThe Hong Kong Police Force and SDU have also appeared in popular video game series “Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six Siege”, and \"Sleeping Dogs\", among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "5709600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5709600", "title": "International Center for Transitional Justice", "text": "International Center for Transitional Justice\n\nThe International Center for Transitional Justice (ICTJ) was founded in 2001 as a non-profit organization dedicated to pursuing accountability for mass atrocity and human rights abuse through transitional justice mechanisms.\n\nICTJ officially opened its doors in New York City on March 1, 2001, and within six months was operating in more than a dozen countries, as requests for assistance poured in.\n\nA collection of materials assembled by the ICTJ covering the years 1981–2008 is housed at the Duke University library.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19224516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19224516", "title": "Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge", "text": "Israelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge\n\nIsraelite School of Universal Practical Knowledge (ISUPK) is a non-profit organization based in Upper Darby, Pennsylvania, United States. The group is part of the Hebrew Israelism movement, which regards American blacks as descendants of the Twelve Tribes of Israel. The Southern Poverty Law Center has designated the ISUPK a hate group, citing its \"extremist\" ideology and black supremacist rhetoric.\n\nISUPK has demonstrated many times at the corner of Seventh and H streets in Washington, D.C., since 2004, but residents complain that the group amplifies its open-air preaching to more than 90 decibels and that its message is offensive. Some homeowners say the group accuses white and gay people of destroying historically black neighborhoods, and at least one resident has complained of being called \"cracker, slave owner, [and] white devil,\" but they reiterate that volume, rather than the group's speech content, is the problem.\n\nISUPK and other groups' volume prompted Washington's municipal government to consider an ordinance to \"resolve the issue.\" The measure would have limited the volume of daytime noncommercial speech to 70 decibels, but it died because of free-speech concerns. ISUPK's regional director, General Yahanna, defended the group, saying residents' real issue was not sound, but the group's message. The group identifies its message as saving local residents' souls and discouraging people from drugs and crime; it regards its separatist teachings as the real objection residents have.\n"}
{"id": "8569458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8569458", "title": "It Don't Cost Nothin' to Say Good Morning", "text": "It Don't Cost Nothin' to Say Good Morning\n\nIt Don't Cost Nothin' to Say Good Morning 1994 is an award-winning documentary film directed by Kenny Hotz and Spencer Rice. The film is about the life of a homeless man, known only as \"'Shorty' Gordy\", who was a beloved but drunken, potty-mouthed panhandler, which was filmed over three years, covering Gordy's life and death. The movie premiered at Palm Springs Film Festival, Cinéfest, the Worldwide Short Film Festival and won best short at the Hot Docs Film Festival.\n\n"}
{"id": "1913377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1913377", "title": "Jerry Yanover", "text": "Jerry Yanover\n\nJerald \"Jerry\" Yanover (January 3, 1947 – July 26, 2009) was a political advisor in Canada.\n\nFor several decades, Yanover was the leading advisor to the Liberal Party of Canada House Leader. He was considered to be one of Canada's foremost experts on parliamentary procedure. While not a public figure, he played a central role in Canadian politics for many years. \"Maclean's\" magazine once stated that \"Yanover is to Liberalism what Yoda is to the Jedi Council.\"\n\nBorn in Erie, Pennsylvania, the son of Gordon and Katherine Yanover, Yanover grew up in Kingston, Ontario. He was one of three siblings (sisters Judy and Gail).\n\nHe first came to Parliament Hill as a tour guide at age eighteen. After obtaining a political science degree from Queen's University, he returned to Parliament Hill in 1969 as assistant to Liberal House Leader Donald Macdonald.\n\nHe continued to serve as an advisor to the House Leader. He planned to retire after the 2004 election, but chose to remain to help the minority government. One of his greatest successes was arranging the votes on the 2005 federal budget, and preventing the defeat of the government on numerous votes of non-confidence. As a result of Yanover's efforts, the Liberal government survived the turbulent spring of 2005.\n\nYanover died in his Ottawa apartment where he lived with his Norwich Terrier, Opie. He was 62. His funeral service was held at the Jewish Memorial Chapel in Ottawa on July 29, 2009 with interment in Belleville, Ontario.\n"}
{"id": "3673472", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3673472", "title": "Kamal Qadir", "text": "Kamal Qadir\n\nDr. Kamal Sayid Qadir (also known as Kamal Berzenji; born 1958 in Arbil, Iraq) is a Kurdish human rights activist with Austrian citizenship. He immigrated to Austria in 1978 and studied law at the Vienna School of Law. He has taught at the University of Suleimani (1998–99) as well as Salahaddin University in Arbil (1999–2000) in Iraq.\nHe had been arrested in October 2005.\nHe was sentenced to 30 years' imprisonment for defamation. The sentence was condemned by Amnesty International, Reporters without Borders and media. \n\nHe was released from custody on January 25, 2006, as a result of efforts by special envoy of the Austrian foreign ministry, Gudrun Harrer. The envoy intervened after the Austrian government deemed the sentence too harsh. Qadir was later retried and the sentence was changed to eighteen months. In April 2006 he was released.\n\n"}
{"id": "56052757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56052757", "title": "Kuridža's Rebellion", "text": "Kuridža's Rebellion\n\nKuridža's Rebellion () was a rebellion against the Republic of Venice due to taxation on newly conquered territory, which included a large peasant Orthodox Christian (Serb) population, led by Serbian Orthodox priest Petar Jagodić \"Kuridža\" (1666–1749) in Bukovica and Ravni kotari (in the Dalmatian hinterland) that took place in 1704.\n\nThe Venetian government implemented a tax of a tenth of yield on all lands that were conquered from the Ottoman Empire with the Great Turkish War (1683–99). With special decrees or investments, lands were assigned to natural and legal persons, with regular payment of an annual tenth collected by tenants. The tenth () was introduced in Venetian Dalmatia during the Morean War around 1690.\n\nOrthodox priest Petar Jagodić organized the poor population in a rebellion against Venetian taxation. Breaking out in Bukovica, it eventually expanded into Ravni kotari. Apart from Kuridža, Žegar chieftain Ilija Nanić and Biograd chieftain Matija Žabetić were also involved. Despite Kuridža's calling to the population of the Knin, Drniš, Skradin and Šibenik areas to rise up, the rebellion did not expand eastwards from the Krka river. The rebels attacked the tax collectors, and also those who did not join the rebellion. Food imports from the Zadar hinterlands to the cities were banned, and money was collected from the people for the needs of further rebellion. Venetian \"provveditore generale\" (general-governor) of Dalmatia, Marino Zane, was at the time of the outbreak at Split. He ordered his deputy, the captain of Zadar, to make threats of most severe punishment and invite the rebels to stop violence and present their problems to the authorities. Responding to the invitation, some 7,000 armed rebels under the leadership of some seventy village chieftains arrived outside Zadar and called the Kotari colonel and count Posedarski, and the serdars Radasović, Smiljanić and Spingaroli to negotiate at Crno. After the talks, Zane received a report from the serdars, after which he sent them back to threaten the rebels with the most severe punishments. The Venetian government had insufficient armed forces in Dalmatia to suppress the rebellion; Zane through calling the rebel chieftains individually and gradually to negotiate in Split, where these were given various promises, won over all chieftains except Kuridža, Nanić and Žabetić, who retreated to Lika. Zane ended his office as governor of Dalmatia in 1705, succeeded by Justinian da Riva. Kuridža, from exile, contacted governor Riva and requested him to hear the exiles. After receiving the three leaders, they were allowed to return home and were left in peace. However, the next governor Vincenzo Vendramino issued for the arrest of Kuridža in 1706, and threw him in jail for the next decades. Nanić and Žabetić were pardoned, most likely due to Venice needing them for future wars with the Ottomans. Kuridža died shortly after his release in old age.\n\nThe events are included in the historical novel \"Most uzdisaja\" (Bridge of Sighs) by Yugoslav author Mirko Žeželj. A poem dedicated to him is included in \"Put Morlaka\" (2013).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2141536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2141536", "title": "Laird v. Tatum", "text": "Laird v. Tatum\n\nLaird v. Tatum, 408 U.S. 1 (1972), was a case in which the United States Supreme Court dismissed for lack of ripeness a claim in which the plaintiff accused the U.S. Army of alleged unlawful \"surveillance of lawful citizen political activity.\" The appellant's specific nature of the harm caused by the surveillance was that it chilled the First Amendment rights of all citizens and undermined that right to express political dissent.\n\nArlo Tatum, the executive secretary of the Central Committee for Conscientious Objectors, sued Melvin Laird, the Secretary of Defense. Tatum sued after \"Washington Monthly\" published an article revealing that US military intelligence units were gathering intelligence on civilians and civil organizations in the US.\n\nThe Court was initially divided into three camps. Justices Rehnquist and Powell initially urged the conservatives to determine that the surveillance program was constitutional. However, Chief Justice Burger, and Justices Blackmun and White determined that it would be more controversial for the Court to enter into a political question.\" After further reflection Powell concluded that it was unwise to rule on the constitutionality of the surveillance program and that the issue was best decided on the principle of ripeness. That is, in the absence of a discernable injury, the issue was too speculative for the Court to rule upon. Burger eventually prevailed on Rehnquist to abandon a concurrence and join with the majority.\n\nThe Court determined that the plaintiff's claim was based on the fear that sometime in the future the Army might cause harm with information retrieved during their surveillance, but that there was no present threat. Therefore, the claim was too \"speculative.\"\n\nMr. Justice Douglas wrote in dissent, with Mr. Justice Marshall concurring:\nThe dismissal of the case was made possible by the timely nomination by Richard Nixon of Assistant Attorney General William Rehnquist to the Supreme Court. Rehnquist had previously testified to Senator Sam Ervin's committee that there were no \"serious constitutional problems with respect to collecting data or keeping under surveillance persons who are merely exercising their right of a peaceful assembly or petition to redress a grievance.\" He further stated that he felt that \"Laird v. Tatum\" should be dismissed on the procedural ground that the plaintiffs lacked standing to sue. Yet he later refused to recuse himself from the case as legal ethicists almost unanimously agreed that he should. After a petition for rehearing was filed based on his participation, Rehnquist issued a memorandum stating that the attack on his impartiality was essentially a criticism of his conservative judicial philosophy, and there had been no actual bias towards the litigant.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6965608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6965608", "title": "Local medical committee", "text": "Local medical committee\n\nA local medical committee is a statutory body in the UK. LMCs are recognised by successive NHS Acts as the professional organisation representing individual GPs and GP practices as a whole to the Primary Care Organisation. The NHS Act 1999 extended the LMC role to include representation of all GPs whatever their contractual status. This includes sessional GP and GP speciality registrars. The LMC represents the views of GPs to any other appropriate organisation or agency.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, local medical committees (LMCs) have been the local general practitioner (GP) committees since 1911. They represent all General Practitioners in their geographical area which is historically coterminous with the successive Primary Care Organisations or other healthcare administrative areas.\n\nAs the organisation and complexity of primary care has increased and along with the call for increased professionalism and specialisation of for instance negotiators, LMCs' administrative structures have developed from a pile of papers on the kitchen table of the LMC medical secretary to permanent staff and offices with substantial assets. This has allowed the LMCs to develop relationships ranging over time, topic and space between mutual suspicion and antagonism to useful cooperation for common benefit with NHS administrative organisations. \n\nThe LMCs interact and work with and through the British Medical Association's General Practitioners Committee (GPC) and with other craft committees and local specialist medical committees in various ways, including conferences. The Northumberland Local Medical Committee has been involved in \"creating a general practice data set in England.\"\n\nThey are funded by a statutory levy, of so many pence per patient on GP principals and practices, and generally receive contributions from non-principal GPs on various local bases.\n\nThey have recently rejected the opt-out model for care records in Great Britain, were involved in a nurse controversy, and became \"divided over what the GPC's action should be on pay freeze in Great Britain.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "3368586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3368586", "title": "Luogotenente", "text": "Luogotenente\n\nThe Italian word luogotenente (; plural \"luogotenenti\") is an etymological parallel to lieutenant, deriving from the Latin \"locum tenens\" \"holding a place\", i.e. someone who fills a position instead of another, as a substitute, deputy, et cetera.\n\nIt has a few specific historical uses:\n\nThe knightly officer who is in daily command of the Grand Master's own regimental company, to which the \"famigliari\" (closest personal staff) belonged.\n\nIt was also the governor (elsewhere other titles, such as \"provveditore\", were used) for the Venetian Republic on the island of Cyprus, which it bought from its last Crusader king from the house of Lusignan, usually for a two-year term, until the Turks captured it in 1570. Besides him the military command was entrusted to a \"capitano\" ('captain', de facto military governor), from 1480 to 1571 (when Famagusta, the last fortress, fell).\n\nIn the Neapolitan Two Sicilies Kingdom there was a Luogotenente generale dei reali domini al di là del Faro meaning \"Lieutenant-general of the royal domains beyond the Lighthouse\", i.e. the Governor appointed by the King for Sicily (Statute of 11 December 1816).\n\nIn the Savoy dynasty's Kingdom of Piedmont-Sardinia and later united Kingdom of Italy, when the King was away from his office for some reason (e.g. to follow the war on the battlefield) he could appoint a Luogotenente Generale del Regno (\"Lieutenant-general of the realm\") (chosen from members of royal family) to carry out some of the King's duties as a Viceroy.\n\nIt happened on 1848, when king Carlo Alberto reached the battlefield in Lombardia, Eugenio Savoia-Carignano was 'Luogotenente Generale del Regno' and it was up to him to announce the year after that the defeated king abdicated and succession passed to his son Vittorio Emanuele II. Eugenio Savoia-Carignano covered again the same role in 1859 and in 1866 when Vittorio Emanuele II was involved in the second and third War of Independence. Finally in 1860/1861 he was appointed Luogotenential duties but limited to Toscana and to southern Italy, when those regions passed under the Kingdom of Sardinia.\n\nAgain on 25 May 1915 during World War I when King Vittorio Emanuele III, leaving Rome in order to reach the war headquarters in North Italy and to assume Supreme War Command, he appointed his uncle, Tomaso di Savoia Duca di Genova, 'Luogotenente Generale del Regno' with delegate powers for ordinary and urgent administration (excluding grave importance affairs) until 1919.\n\nAt the end of World War II, the same King appointed his son, Umberto, as 'Luogotenente Generale del Regno' under Allied and Italian pressure in an attempt to save the monarchy, which had been compromised by its earlier association with the fascist regime.\n\n"}
{"id": "2998759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2998759", "title": "Meiji oligarchy", "text": "Meiji oligarchy\n\nThe Meiji oligarchy was the new ruling class of Meiji period Japan. In Japanese, the Meiji oligarchy is called the .\n\nThe members of this class were adherents of \"kokugaku\" and believed they were the creators of a new order as grand as that established by Japan's original founders. Two of the major figures of this group were Ōkubo Toshimichi (1832–78), son of a Satsuma retainer, and Satsuma \"samurai\" Saigō Takamori (1827–77), who had joined forces with Chōshū, Tosa, and Hizen to overthrow the Tokugawa shogunate. Okubo became minister of finance and Saigō a field marshal; both were imperial councillors. Kido Koin (1833–77), a native of Chōshū, student of Yoshida Shōin, and conspirator with Ōkubo and Saigō, became minister of education and chairman of the Governors' Conference and pushed for constitutional government. Also prominent were Iwakura Tomomi (1825–83), a Kyoto native who had opposed the Tokugawa and was to become the first ambassador to the United States, and Ōkuma Shigenobu (1838–1922), of Hizen, a student of \"Rangaku\", Chinese, and English, who held various ministerial portfolios, eventually becoming prime minister in 1898.\n\nTo accomplish the new order's goals, the Meiji oligarchy set out to abolish the four divisions of society through a series of economic and social reforms. Tokugawa shogunate revenues had depended on taxes on Tokugawa and other daimyo lands, loans from wealthy peasants and urban merchants, limited customs fees, and reluctantly accepted foreign loans. To provide revenue and develop a sound infrastructure, the new government financed harbor improvements, lighthouses, machinery imports, schools, overseas study for students, salaries for foreign teachers and advisers, modernization of the army and navy, railroads and telegraph networks, and foreign diplomatic missions, such as the Iwakura mission. \n\nDifficult economic times, manifested by increasing incidents of agrarian rioting, led to calls for social reforms. In addition to the old high rents, taxes, and interest rates, the average citizen was faced with cash payments for new taxes, military conscription, and tuition charges for the newly introduced compulsory education. The people needed more time for productive pursuits while correcting social abuses of the past. To achieve these reforms, the old Tokugawa class system of \"samurai\", farmer, artisan, and merchant was abolished by 1871, and, even though old prejudices and status consciousness continued, all were theoretically equal before the law. Actually helping to perpetuate social distinctions, the government named new social divisions: the former daimyō became peerage nobility, the \"samurai\" became gentry, and all others became commoners. \"Daimyō\" and \"samurai\" pensions were paid off in lump sums, and the samurai later lost their exclusive claim to military positions. Former samurai found new pursuits as bureaucrats, teachers, army officers, police officials, journalists, scholars, colonists in the northern parts of Japan, bankers, and businessmen. These occupations helped stem some of the discontent this large group felt; some profited immensely, but many were not successful and provided significant opposition in the ensuing years.\n\nThe 1873 Korean crisis resulted in the resignation of military expedition proponents Saigō and Councillor of State Etō Shimpei (1834–74). Etō, the founder of various patriotic organizations, conspired with other discontented elements to start an armed insurrection against government troops in Saga, the capital of his native prefecture in Kyūshū in 1874. Charged with suppressing the revolt, Ōkubo swiftly crushed Etō, who had appealed unsuccessfully to Saigō for help. Three years later, the last major armed uprising—but the most serious challenge to the Meiji government—took shape in the Satsuma Rebellion, this time with Saigō playing an active role. The Saga Rebellion and other agrarian and \"samurai\" uprisings mounted in protest to the Meiji reforms had been easily put down by the army. Satsuma's former \"samurai\" were numerous, however, and they had a long tradition of opposition to central authority. Saigō, with some reluctance and only after more widespread dissatisfaction with the Meiji reforms, raised a rebellion in 1877. Both sides fought well, but the modern weaponry and better financing of the government forces ended the Satsuma Rebellion. Although he was defeated and committed suicide, Saigō was not branded a traitor and became a heroic figure in Japanese history. The suppression of the Satsuma Rebellion marked the end of serious threats to the Meiji regime but was sobering to the oligarchy. The fight drained the national treasury, led to serious inflation, and forced land values—and badly needed taxes—down. Most important, calls for reform were renewed.\n\nThe following were leading figures in the Meiji Restoration, when and in the subsequent Government of Meiji Japan:\nFrom the Court nobility:\n\nFrom Satsuma Domain:\n\nFrom Chōshū Domain:\n\nFrom Tosa Domain:\n\nFrom Hizen Domain:\n\nOthers:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1323679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1323679", "title": "Mezzanine capital", "text": "Mezzanine capital\n\nIn finance, mezzanine capital is any subordinated debt or preferred equity instrument that represents a claim on a company's assets which is senior only to that of the common shares. Mezzanine financings can be structured either as debt (typically an unsecured and subordinated note) or preferred stock.\n\nMezzanine capital is often a more expensive financing source for a company than secured debt or senior debt. The higher cost of capital associated with mezzanine financings is the result of its being an unsecured, subordinated (or junior) obligation in a company's capital structure (i.e., in the event of default, the mezzanine financing is only repaid after all senior obligations have been satisfied). Additionally, mezzanine financings, which are usually private placements, are often used by smaller companies and may involve greater overall levels of leverage than issues in the high-yield market; they thus involve additional risk. In compensation for the increased risk, mezzanine debt holders require a higher return for their investment than secured or more senior lenders.\n\nMezzanine financings can be completed through a variety of different structures based on the specific objectives of the transaction and the existing capital structure in place at the company. The basic forms used in most mezzanine financings are subordinated notes and preferred stock. Mezzanine lenders, typically specialist mezzanine investment funds, look for a certain rate of return which can come from (each individual security can be made up of any of the following or a combination thereof):\n\n\nMezzanine lenders will also often charge an arrangement fee, payable upfront at the closing of the transaction. Arrangement fees contribute the least return, and their purposes are primarily to cover administrative costs or as an incentive to complete the transaction.\n\nThe following are illustrative examples of mezzanine financings:\n\n\nIn structuring a mezzanine security, the company and lender work together to avoid burdening the borrower with the full interest cost of such a loan. Because mezzanine lenders will seek a return of 14% to 20%, this return must be achieved through means other than simple cash interest payments. As a result, by using equity ownership and PIK interest, the mezzanine lender effectively defers its compensation until the due date of the security or a change of control of the company. \n\nMezzanine financings can be made at either the operating company level or at the level of a holding company (also known as structural subordination). In a holding company structure, as there are no operations and hence no cash flows, the structural subordination of the security and the reliance on cash dividends from the operating company introduces additional risk and typically higher cost. This approach is taken most often as a result of the company's existing capital structure.\n\nIn leveraged buyouts, mezzanine capital is used in conjunction with other securities to fund the purchase price of the company being acquired. Typically, mezzanine capital will be used to fill a financing gap between less expensive forms of financing (e.g., senior loans, second lien loan, high yield financings) and equity. Often, a financial sponsor will exhaust other sources of capital before turning to mezzanine capital. \n\nFinancial sponsors will seek to use mezzanine capital in a leveraged buyout in order to reduce the amount of the capital invested by the private equity firm; because mezzanine lenders typically have a lower target cost of capital than the private equity investor, using mezzanine capital can potentially enhance the private equity firm's investment returns. Additionally, middle market companies may be unable to access the high yield market due to high minimum size requirements, creating a need for flexible, private mezzanine capital.\n\nIn real estate finance, mezzanine loans are often used by developers to secure supplementary financing for development projects (typically in cases where the primary mortgage or construction loan equity requirements are larger than 10%). These sorts of mezzanine loans are often secured by a second ranking real property mortgage (that is, ranking subordinate to the first mortgage lenders). Standard mortgage foreclosure proceedings can take more than a year, depending upon the relationship between the first mortgage lenders and the mezzanine debt lender, governed by an Intercreditor Deed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54203831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54203831", "title": "Minimum wage in Kazakhstan", "text": "Minimum wage in Kazakhstan\n\nMinimum wage in Kazakhstan is set by a special law. It is equally distributed across the country and there is no difference between the minimum wages in different cities. \n\nAccording to Kazakh sources, minimum wage in Kazakhstan in 2010 was 14592 tenge. After that it increased to 21364 tenge in 2015.\nThe current minimum wage in Kazakhstan, which was set on January 1 2017, equals 24,459 tenge.\nThere is a lot of discussion about the low level of minimum wages in Kazakhstan. Because of that, the opposition party in Kazakhstan, Democratic Choice of Kazakhstan, has criticised the president of the country, Nursultan Nazarbayev.\n"}
{"id": "6186973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6186973", "title": "Ministry of National Defence (Romania)", "text": "Ministry of National Defence (Romania)\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence () is one of the fifteen ministries of the Government of Romania.\n\nThe current Minister of National Defence is Mihai Fifor.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence is the specialized body of the central public administration submitted to the Government conducting the national defence activity according to the stipulations of law and to the strategy of national security, with a view to safeguarding national sovereignty, state independence and unity, territorial integrity and constitutional democracy.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence is responsible to the Parliament, the Supreme Council of National Defence and the Government for implementation of provisions of the Constitution, laws in force, decisions of the Supreme Council of National Defence and of the Government, of international treaties ratified by Romania in fields of its activity.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence is structured on central structures.\nMoND central structures subordinated to the minister of National Defence:\n\n\nCoordinates the Euro-Atlantic integration process and the development of military international relations, is in charge of the defence policy enforcement, ensures the integrated defence planning and controls the research activity in its area of responsibility.\n\nDepartment of Relations with the Parliament,\nLegislative Harmonization and Public Relations,Gabriel Leș\n\nEnsures the relations with the Parliament, other public authorities and NGOs, coordinates the legislative activity, presents the drafts of laws in the Parliament, coordinates the process of harmonization with defence stipulations of the NATO and UE members, coordinates the public relations and the research activity in its area of responsibility.\n\n\nIs in charge with military acquisitions and coordinates the research in its area of responsibility.\n\n\nEnsures the military management of the Armed Forces, is in charge with the combat capacity of the Armed Forces, fulfills the programs of Euro-Atlantic integration and political-military cooperation for its own structures and controls the research activity in its area of responsibility.\n\nThe General Staff is headed by the chief of the General Staff, named by the President of Romania at the suggestion of the minister of National Defence and the Prime Minister's approval.\n\nThe chief of the General Staff is the highest military rank in the Armed Forces.\n\nA Committee of chiefs of staffs with deliberative role is established at the General Staff level.\n\nIts organization and function are established by the rule approved by order of the minister of National Defence.\n\n\nThe structure through which the minister of National Defence exercises the control and evaluates the activities developed in the Armed Forces.\n\nThe Inspectorate organizes and controls the environment and labor protection, technical and metrological overwatch.\n\nThe Inspectorate is managed by the general inspector designated by order of minister of National Defence.\n\n\nControls the subordinated directorates and services established by order of minister of National Defence and ensures the secretariat, administrative and protocol works at the minister level.\n\nThe General Secretariat is headed by the general secretary, a civil servant, nominalized by order of minister of National Defence.\n\n\nThe specialized structure for gathering, processing, confirming, stocking (filing) and evaluating the internal and external military and non military risks and threats affecting the national security; also in charge of developing the intelligence security concept, the cryptographic activity and ensuring the geographic data required by the Armed Forces.\nDefence Intelligence General Directorate is headed by a general director appointed by the decision of the Prime Minister at the recommendation of the Minister of National Defence.\n\n\nThe specialised structure in elaborating the politics, strategies and rules in professionalised human resources management.\n\n\nThe MoND specialized structure ensuring the fulfillment of economic, financial-accounting activities of the minister as the chief accountant.\n\n\nThe specialized structure of endogenous and expost verifications on patrimony administration and use of the public money according to the criteria of efficiency and economy.\n\nThe minister of National Defence also has in his subordination:\n- counselors of minister;\n- diplomatic counselor;\n- minister's cabinet;\n- control body of the minister.\n- The Military Courts Directorate and the Military Prosecutor's Section are subordinated to the minister of National Defence only regarding the aspects established by common order of minister of National Defence, minister of Justice and General Prosecutor.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence subordinates the service staffs, commands, directorates, education and research institutes, formations and other structures.\n\nThe Ministry of National Defence is led and represented by the minister of National Defence. The minister of National Defence in exercising the leadership is assisted by State Secretaries and chief of the General Staff.\n\nAt the Ministry of National Defence level exist:\n- College of Ministry of National Defence with consultative role;\n- Council of Defence Planning with deliberative role.\n\nRomania used the Julian calendar until 1919, but all dates are given in the Gregorian calendar.\n\nThe following party abbreviations are used:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3289763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3289763", "title": "National Institute for Smart Government", "text": "National Institute for Smart Government\n\nThe National Institute for Smart Government (NISG) is a non-for profit company incorporated in 2002 by the Government of India and NASSCOM with its head office at Hyderabad, India.\n\n"}
{"id": "19660709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19660709", "title": "National Socialist League of the Reich for Physical Exercise", "text": "National Socialist League of the Reich for Physical Exercise\n\nThe National Socialist League of the Reich for Physical Exercise (, abbreviated NSRL), was the umbrella organization for sports and physical education in Nazi Germany. The NSRL was known as the German League of the Reich for Physical Exercise (, abbreviated DRL) until 1938. The organization was expanded to Austria after that country's annexation by Nazi Germany.\n\nThe NSRL was led by the \"Reichssportführer\", who after 1934 was at the same time presiding over the German National Olympic Committee. The NSRL's leaders were Hans von Tschammer und Osten (1933–1943), Arno Breitmeyer (1943–1944) and Karl Ritter von Halt (1944–1945).\n\nThe 1916 Summer Olympics had been awarded to Berlin, but were canceled because of the duration of World War I. The \"Deutscher Reichsausschuss für Olympische Spiele\" (DRA or DRAfOS) \"German Imperial Commission for Olympic Games\", was the German Olympic Sports organization at that time. In 1917 the \"German Imperial Commission for Olympic Games\" was renamed (DRA), (sometimes also DRL or, more rarely, DRAfL) (\"German Imperial Commission for Physical Exercise\"). The name change reflected Germany's protest against the fact that Germany and other Central Powers were being excluded from the \"Olympic family\" which was dominated by the Entente Powers.\n\nThe Deutscher Reichsausschuss für Leibesübungen was led by Theodor Lewald and Carl Diem was its Secretary General. Even though it saw itself as the pan-German umbrella organization for sports, it did not represent all types of sports and sports associations of Germany. A great number of sport clubs, especially those stemming from industrial workers' background, had not joined the DRA.\n\nAfter the Enabling Act, which legally gave Hitler dictatorial control of Germany in March 1933, all sports organizations connected to the Social Democratic Party, the Communist Party, and even to the church, were banned. This ban affected especially the sports clubs of industrial workers, most of which were called to split up on their own \"(Selbstauflösung)\" before the first semester of 1933 was over. The more conservative nationalistic and bourgeois clubs were allowed to subsist into the following year.\n\nOn April 12, 1933 Theodor Lewald gave in to the Nazi authorities and resigned as leader of the German Sports Office after it was revealed his paternal grandmother was Jewish. The Nazi minister of the interior, Wilhelm Frick, interfered with the process of the election of a new Sports leader, and the decision was made by a hurriedly instituted three-man commission. Thus, in April 1933, Hans von Tschammer und Osten, a figure formerly unknown in German sports, was named \"Reichskommissar für Turnen und Sport\" (Commissioner for Gymnastics and Sports of the Reich). Von Tschammer, however, would keep his predecessor in a high position in the sports body, and years later he would appoint Theodor Lewald as president of the Organizing Committee of the Berlin Olympic Games.\n\nHans von Tschammer und Osten was a SA group leader and promoter of Nazism. In the name of \"gleichschaltung\" he disbanded the \"Deutscher Reichsausschuss für Leibesübungen\" on May 5, 1933 (officially on May 10). Von Tschammer was then elevated to \"Reichssportführer\" on July 19 and the whole sports sphere in Germany was placed under his power.\n\nThe Deutscher Reichsbund für Leibesübungen (DRL) was established on July 27, 1934, as the official Sports governing body of Nazi Germany. It would quickly become a formidable system within the German nation.\n\nAfter the DRL's foundation all other German sport associations gradually lost their freedom and were coopted into the DRL as mere units (\"Fachämter\"). Even the most prestigious ones, like the German Football Association (DFB) lost their independence. Von Tschammer's goal was to build a formidable Nazi sports body to which all German sports associations would be submitted. His vision was that physical exercise would \"improve the morale and productivity of German workers\" as well as making sports a source of national pride for the Germans. Sporting skills were made a criterion for school graduation as well as a necessary qualification for certain jobs and admission to universities.\nAmong the controversial measures taken by the Sports Office of the Reich at the time, the staging of the massive Reichssportfest event on Trinity Sunday was a decision that shocked devout Catholics.\n\nIn 1935 journalist Guido von Mengden, was named public relations officer of the Reich Sports Office. He became the personal advisor and consultant of the \"Reichssportführer\" in 1936. A committed Nazi, von Mengden became the chief editor of NS-Sport, the official organ of the Reich Sports Office.\nOther DRL/NSRL publications included \"Dietwart\", a sports magazine with excellent illustrations and \"Sport und Staat\" (Sports and State), a massive four-volume Nazi propaganda report on the organized sports activities in Nazi Germany. \"Sport und Staat\" was made by Arno Breitmeyer and Hitler's personal photographer Heinrich Hoffmann. This lavishly illustrated work had many pictures and information about the various Nazi organizations, i.e. SA, NSKK, Bund Deutscher Mädel, Hitler Jugend, etc. Printed in 1934 by the publishing house of the German Sports Aid Funds, a branch of the DRL, only volume one and two of a planned series of four volumes were published.\n\nThe aims of the promotion of sports in Nazi Germany included hardening the spirit of every German as well as making German citizens feel that they were part of a wider national purpose. This was in line with the ideals of Friedrich Ludwig Jahn, the \"Father of physical exercises\", who connected the steeling of one's own body to a healthy spirit and promoted the idea of a unified, strong Germany. A more controversial aim was the demonstration of Aryan physical superiority.\n\nVon Tschammer's impressively staged events of sports pageantry not only enhanced the physical activity, but also the nationalism of Germans. Nordic aesthetic beauty and commitment to Germanic ideals of race went hand in hand during the Nazi era, and von Tschammer und Osten implemented a policy of racial exclusion within sports. Athletes of Jewish origin were excluded from participation in relevant sporting events.\n\nIn 1936 Hans von Tschammer und Osten, as the head of the Deutscher Reichsbund für Leibesübungen, played a major role in the structure and coordination of the Summer Olympics in Berlin. The Olympic Games, the first in history to have live television coverage, provided an ideal setting to showcase the Nazi regime and what Hitler deemed to be his exploits.\n\nAs Secretary General of the Organizing Committee of the Berlin Olympic Games, Carl Diem, the former secretary of the Deutscher Reichsausschuss für Leibesübungen (DRA), the forerunner of the DRL/NSRL, became the chief organizer of the Berlin Olympic Games. Diem held high posts in the Reichs Sports office even after the Olympics, being named leader of the Foreign Department of the Nationalsocialist Sports Office in 1939 by the \"Reichssportführer\". As such Carl Diem was responsible for the issues of German athletes in foreign countries, as well as for the international affairs of the NSRL.\n\nVon Tschammer trusted the organization of the Fourth Winter Olympics in Garmisch-Partenkirchen to Karl Ritter von Halt, whom he named President of the Committee for the organization of the Winter Games. As a result of the prestige acquired in this event, Karl Ritter von Halt would be elected member of the Executive Committee of the International Olympic Committee (IOC) in 1937, a post von Tschammer craved but was not able to obtain.\n\nThe German eagle with the swastika on the chest, worn as a badge by the athletes of the 1936 German Olympics team, became the official symbol of the Nazi Sports Body; \"the swastika on the eagle's chest displays ... the ideology of the DRL\" \"(\"Das Hakenkreuz aber, welches der Adler in seinen Schwingen trägt, bekennt, aus welcher Gesinnung ... im DRL gearbeitet wird)\".\nThe verbal salutation \"Heil Hitler!\" was introduced by von Tschammer on December 12, 1936 as the official formal salutation by members of German sport organisations in the sport events that would be organized from that date onwards. The Nazi salute had already been introduced three years before by . On March 17, 1937, all German athletes were called by Hans von Tschammer und Osten to join the Hitler Youth.\n\nIn 1937 two cricket (Germanized into \"Kricket\" by the DRL) matches between a German team and a British team from Worcester took place in Berlin.\n\nAustria's annexation by Germany in March 1938 brought the budding Austrian Nationalliga to an early end. Numerous football teams were disbanded and some players fled the country. All Austrian sports associations were absorbed by the system of the DRL as Gau XVII section under \"Gaufachwart\" Hans Janisch. The Hitler salute was introduced as compulsory before and after every game. Finally, the operation of junior sports teams was handed over to the local Hitlerjugend units.\n\nDespised by Nazis as unworthy of a true German, professionalism in sports was outlawed by the DRL in May 1938. Felix Linnemann, the German Football Association (DFB) president, was one of the greatest campaigners for amateurism in sports in Nazi Germany. In 1940, the already powerless German Football Association was finally wound up.\n\nFollowing the 1938 Munich Agreement and the liquidation of Czechoslovakia as a state, the ethnic Sudeten German football teams played in the Gauliga Sudetenland. The NSRL formed two groups in 1939, which were raised to three in 1941. None of these teams were able to make it to the final stages of the German football champions. Czech clubs continued to play their own Bohemia/Moravia championship A separate Gauliga for the Czech teams of the territories occupied by Germany, Gauliga Böhmen und Mähren, was formed by the NSRL in 1943.\n\nThe last big sports event organized in its trademark grandiose style by the NSRL was the \"Deutsches Turn- und Sportfest\" (German Gym and Sports Celebration) in Breslau (now Wrocław) in July 1938. This highly nationalistic sports event commemorated the 125th anniversary of the German Wars of Liberation against Napoleon and the first award of the Iron Cross in the city of Breslau itself in 1813.\n\nOn December the 21st 1938, a decree was issued by Adolf Hitler changing the name of the Reich Sports Body to Nationalsozialistischer Reichsbund für Leibesübungen (NSRL), thereby \"elevating it to an organization served by the NSDAP\". This name change meant that the NSRL would be \"placed under\" the Nazi Party. Its seat would be the Haus des Deutschen Sports (House of the German Sports) in the Reichssportfeld (Sports Field of the Reich) in Berlin.\n\nWorld War II radically altered the role of the NSRL in Germany and the areas under its leadership. The military re-armament and dire war preparations would make the influence of physical exercises in Nazi German society wane in favour of militarism. The massive sports pageantry events in the large cities, carefully organized to arouse nationalistic fervor, were replaced by military parades of German warriors. Successful sportsmen found it increasingly difficult to compete with frontline war heroes in capturing the attention of the German public.\n\nEven though the NSRL continued playing a big role in sporting activities among the youth for a few years, the atmosphere had changed. Many Germans were subjected to conscription and left for the different fronts, so the NSRL concentrated in training and staging local or regional events for younger athletes. Already in 1940 monetary funds for organizing sporting venues, such as the prestigious Kiel Week sailing competition, were not forthcoming. Contributors felt emboldened to deny funds to the formerly influential branches of the Nazi Sports Office owing to the war-related shifting of priorities. During this time the NSRL sold lottery tickets as a source of self-financement.\n\nVon Tschammer's influence and power within the NSDAP also began rapidly eroding despite having been a committed topmost Nazi leader. He would, however, never witness Germany's defeat and humiliation in the war, for he died from pneumonia in Berlin in March 1943. Arno Breitmeyer, a fellow SA officer became the new \"Reichssportführer\".\n\nAs the war dragged on, a huge number of members of the many branches of the NSRL, among them youngsters in their early teens, had to go to fight to the fronts. Since players were not available, except in shoddily organized military sports events in scattered frontline locations, sports life in Germany came practically to a standstill. The last \"von Tschammer und Osten Pokal\" football trophy was played in Vienna in 1943 and the following two years plunged the NSRL into irrelevance. The once mighty Nazi Sports Body had to give up its weight and its position of pride long before the war was lost.\nOn May 31, 1945, after Nazi Germany's defeat in World War II, the American Military Government issued a special law outlawing the Nazi party and all of its branches. Known as \"Law number five\", this Denazification decree disbanded the NS Reichsbund für Leibesübungen along with all its facilities and departments.\n\nThe disbandment of the NSRL meant that all the sports organizations of Germany had to be established anew during the postwar reconstruction of both West Germany and the DDR. Even after German reunification in 1990, there has never been such a powerful and all-encompassing sports organization in Germany as the DRL/NSRL was at its height.\n\nAs a sports governing body seeking to control and integrate all sport activities in Germany, the DRL/NSRL provided a highly organized structure. This structuralization, whose nationalistic seriousness was often outright theatrical, was in line with the Nazi Party's goal of reminding Germans constantly that they were members of a large extended country. According to Paragraph 2 of the DRL's Statutes: \"The purpose of the League of the Reich for Physical Exercise is the training of the body and character of Germans grouped together in member organizations through planned physical exercises and care of the national conscience (Volksbewußtsein) in the spirit of the National Socialist state\".\n\nRegarding method and purpose, and keeping aside the ideology, the well-ordered and solemn DRL/NSRL system proved itself efficient. The 1936 Summer Olympics, as well as other key events, provided ample opportunity to test the good organization that the Sports Body of the Reich was able to provide. The NSRL's obvious competence succeeded in instilling a spirit of unity and pride among the German sportsmen and women as well as their supporters. Moreover, even if not duly credited, many of the NSRL's systemic improvements in sports are still in use in today's sports organizations.\n\nBesides the departments above, certain competences of the NSRL as a league were served by sports federations some of which still exist today:\n\n\"(1) The \"Summer Games\" include the following games known collectively as \"\" in German: (a German bat-and-ball sport), Fistball, (closely related to korfball), Schleuderball and Ringtennis.\"\n\nThe regional structure of the NSRL followed the Nazi Party model. Often two or more gaue were included in one region where it was expedient to do so.\n\n\"(1) Thuringia, Anhalt and the Province of Saxony. — (2) Schleswig-Holstein, Hamburg and Mecklenburg. — (3) The Palatinate and (from 1935 onwards) the Saar Region. — (4) Austria from 1938 onwards .\"\n\nBy January first 1937 the Nationalsozialistischer Reichsbund für Leibesübungen had 45,096 Associations with 3,582,776 active members (of which 517,992 were female and 3,064,784 male). On April first 1939 there were 44,622 Associations with 3,668,206 active members (of which 526,084 were female). The kind of sports practiced were the following:\n\n\"Numbering according to Departments and Departmental Federations.\"\n\nChampionships in the individual types of sports were duly organized by the corresponding associations and federations. Among the events directly organized by the NS Reichsbund für Leibesübungen the most important were:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23962217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23962217", "title": "Oklahoma Council on Judicial Complaints", "text": "Oklahoma Council on Judicial Complaints\n\nThe Oklahoma Council on Judicial Complaints is an agency of the state of Oklahoma that investigates allegations of judicial misconduct and can recommend a judge be reprimanded by the Oklahoma Supreme Court or recommend the judge's removal from office by the Oklahoma Court on the Judiciary. The council has jurisdiction over all state, municipal and administrative law judges. The council is composed of three members.\n\nThe council consists of three members. Only two members of the council may be members of the Oklahoma Bar Association. One member is appointed by the President pro tempore of the Oklahoma Senate, one member is appointed by the Speaker of the Oklahoma House of Representatives, and the third member is appointed by the President of the Oklahoma Bar Association. No members of the council, during their terms of office, is eligible for appointment to the Oklahoma Judicial Nominating Commission.\n\nThe current members of the council are:\n"}
{"id": "1884082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1884082", "title": "Peace Conference of 1861", "text": "Peace Conference of 1861\n\nThe Peace Conference of 1861 was a meeting of 131 leading American politicians in February 1861, at the Willard's Hotel in Washington, DC, on the eve of the American Civil War. The success of President Abraham Lincoln and the Republican Party in the 1860 presidential elections led to a flurry of political activity. In much of the South, elections were held to select delegates to special conventions to consider secession from the Union. In Congress, efforts were made in both the House of Representatives and the Senate to reach compromise over the issues relating to slavery that were dividing the nation. The conference was the final effort by the individual states to resolve the crisis. With the seven states of the Cotton South already committed to secession, the emphasis to preserve the Union peacefully focused on the eight slaveholding states representing the Upper and Border South, with the states of Virginia and Kentucky playing key roles.\n\nIn December 1860, the final session of the Thirty-sixth Congress met. In the House, the Committee of Thirty-Three, with one member from each state, led by Ohio Republican Thomas Corwin, was formed to reach a compromise to preserve the Union. In the Senate, former Kentucky Whig John J. Crittenden, elected as a Unionist candidate, submitted the Crittenden Compromise, six proposed constitutional amendments that he hoped would address all the outstanding issues. Hopes were high, especially in the Border States, that the lame duck Congress could reach a successful resolution before the new Republican administration took office.\n\nCrittenden's proposals were debated by a specially-selected Committee of Thirteen. The proposals provided for, among other things, an extension of the Missouri Compromise line dividing the territories to the Pacific Ocean, bringing his efforts directly in conflict with the 1860 Republican Platform and the personal views of President-elect Abraham Lincoln, who had made known his objections. The compromise was rejected by the committee on December 22 by a vote of 7–6. Crittenden later brought the issue to the floor of the Senate as a proposal to have his compromise made subject to a national referendum, but the Senate rejected it on January 16, by a vote of 25–23.\n\nA modified version of the Crittenden Plan, believed to be more attractive to Republicans, was considered by an \"ad hoc\" committee of 14 congressmen from the lower North and the upper South, meeting several times between December 28 and January 4. The committee was chaired again by Crittenden and included other Southern Unionists such as Representatives John A. Gilmer of North Carolina, Robert H. Hatton of Tennessee, J. Morrison Harris of Maryland, and John T. Harris of Virginia. A version of their work was rejected by the House on January 7.\n\nIn the House, the Committee of Thirty-Three on January 14 reported that it had reached majority agreement on a constitutional amendment to protect slavery where it existed and the immediate admission of New Mexico Territory as a slave state. This latter proposal would result in a \"de facto\" extension of the Missouri Compromise line for all existing territories.\n\nA fourth attempt came from the state of Virginia. Former President John Tyler, a private citizen of Virginia who was still much interested in the fate of the nation, had been appointed as a special Virginia envoy to President James Buchanan to urge him to maintain the \"status quo\" in regard to the seceded states. Later, Tyler was an elected delegate to the Virginia convention called to consider whether or not to follow the Deep South states out of the Union. Tyler thought that a final collective effort should be made to preserve the Union and in a document published on January 17, 1861, he called for a convention of the six free and six slave border states to resolve the sectional split. Governor John Letcher of Virginia had already made a similar request to the state legislature, agreed to sponsor the convention while the list of attendees to all of the states was expanded. Corwin agreed to hold off any final vote on his House plan pending the final actions of the Peace Conference.\n\nThe conference convened on February 4, 1861, at the Willard Hotel; all seven Deep South states had already passed ordinances of secession and were preparing to form a new government in Montgomery, Alabama. At the same time that Tyler, selected to head the Peace Convention, was making his opening remarks in Washington, his granddaughter was ceremonially hoisting the flag for the convention in Montgomery. No delegates were sent by the Deep South states or by Arkansas, Michigan, Wisconsin, Minnesota, California, and Oregon. Fourteen free states and seven slave states were represented. Among the representatives to the conference were James A. Seddon and William Cabell Rives from Virginia, David Wilmot from Pennsylvania, Reverdy Johnson from Maryland, William P. Fessenden and Lot M. Morrill from Maine, James Guthrie from Kentucky, Stephen T. Logan from Illinois, Alvan Cullom from Tennessee, and Thomas Ewing and Salmon P. Chase from Ohio. Many of the delegates came in the belief that they could be successful, but many others, from both sides of the spectrum, came simply as \"watchdogs\" for their sectional interests. Because many of the 131 delegates, which included \"six former cabinet members, nineteen ex-governors, fourteen former senators, fifty former representatives, twelve state supreme court justices, and one former president,\" qualified as senior statesmen, the meeting was frequently referred to derisively as the \"Old Gentleman's Convention\".\n\nOn February 6, a separate committee, charged with drafting a proposal for the entire convention to consider, was formed. The committee consisted of one representative from each state and was headed by James Guthrie. The entire convention met for three weeks, and its final product was a proposed seven-point constitutional amendment that differed little from the Crittenden Compromise. The key issue, slavery in the territories, was addressed simply by extending the Missouri Compromise line to the Pacific Ocean, with no provision for newly-acquired territory. That section passed by a 9–8 vote of the states.\n\nOther features of the proposed constitutional amendment were the requirement for the acquisition of all future territories to be approved by a majority of both the slave states and the free states, a prohibition on Congress passing any legislation that would affect the status of slavery where it currently existed, a prohibition on state legislatures from passing laws that would restrict the ability of officials to apprehend and return fugitive slaves, a permanent prohibition on the foreign slave trade, and 100% compensation to any master whose fugitive slave was freed by illegal mob action or intimidation of officials required to administer the Fugitive Slave Act. Key sections of this amendment could be further amended only with the concurrence of all of the states.\n\nIn failing to limit the expansion of slavery to all new territories, the compromise failed to satisfy hardline Republicans. In failing to protect slavery in all territories, the compromise failed to address the issue that had divided the Democratic Party into northern and southern factions in the 1860 presidential elections. The convention's work was completed with only a few days left in the final session of Congress. The proposal was rejected in the Senate in a 28-7 vote and never came to a vote in the House. The Corwin Amendment, a less-encompassing constitutional amendment that was finally submitted by the Committee of Thirty-Three was passed by Congress, but it simply provided protection for slavery where it currently existed, something that Lincoln and most members of both parties already believed was a state right protected by the existing US Constitution. A bill for New Mexico statehood was tabled by a vote of 115-71 with opposition coming from both Southern Democrats as well as Republicans.\n\nWith the adjournment of Congress and the inauguration of Lincoln as president, the only avenue for compromise involved informal negotiations between Unionist southerners and representatives of the incoming Republican government: Congress was no longer a factor. A final convention of only the slave states still in the Union scheduled for June 1861 never occurred because of the events at Fort Sumter. Robert H. Hatton, a Unionist from Tennessee who would later change sides, summed up the feelings of many shortly before Congress adjourned:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46698588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46698588", "title": "Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism", "text": "Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism\n\nThe Pears Institute for the Study of Antisemitism was launched in 2010, as a centre for research, teaching, and public policy formation relating to antisemitism and racial intolerance.\n\nThe Institute is based at Birkbeck, University of London, and was established by the Pears Foundation. The director is David Feldman.\n"}
{"id": "48430021", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48430021", "title": "Pleasant Stay hotel case", "text": "Pleasant Stay hotel case\n\nPleasant Stay hotel case was a sensational case against Jayalalithaa, the late Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu, a state in South India during her tenure in 1991-96. Jayalalitha and her ministerial colleague, T. M. Selvaganapathy, were charged of misusing office to allow Pleasant Stay Hotel in Kodaikanal to build seven floors against the norms. The case and chargesheet were filed during the following DMK (Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam) government headed by Karunanidhi in 1996. Jayalalitha and T. M. Selvaganapathy were convicted in the lower court, which sentenced her to one year imprisonment to the two and three others involved. The case had political implications as the aftermath violence created furore in the state. The statewide violence resulted in the burning of five buses, damaging fifty buses and leaving 40 people injured. Three girls students of the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University were burnt alive in a bus in Dharmapuri . The three AIADMK party workers were convicted in the case, got death sentence in the case in 2007 which was commuted to life imprisonment.\n\nThe Madras High Court acquitted her and other four accused in the case of all the charges on 4 December 2001 along with the TANSI land acquisition case. The Supreme Court upheld the order of Madras High Court on 24 November 2003 on grounds of lack of evidence. She came back to power winning the Tamil Nadu assembly by-election, 2002 from Andipatti constituency in March 2002.\n\nJayalalithaa Jayaram (born 24 February 1948), commonly referred to as Jayalalithaa, is an Indian politician and three time Chief Minister of Tamil Nadu during various times from 1991–96, 2002–06 and 2011–14, 2015-2016.\n\nDuring April 1991, Mittal was permitted to construct two floors of his hotel named Pleasant Stay in Kodaikanal. In January 1992, he submitted a revised plan seeking permission to build seven floors altogether. His petition was rejected by Kodaikanal township and he filed an appeal. Not waiting for the appeal, he started constructing four floors of the hotel. Palani Hills Conservation Council (PHCC) obtained a stay from Madras High Court during December 1997. There was a legal tangle between the hotel and PHCC, which PHCC won. On 13 May 1994, the Jayalalithaa government passed a Government Order, G.O. Ms. No.126, which permitted Mittal to build five extra floors in a total of seven floors against the norms. Jayalalitha, Local Administration Minister Selvaganapathy, Municipal Administration and Water Supply secretary H.M. Pandey, executive director of the hotel Rakesh Mittal, and Chairman and managing director of the hotel Palai N. Shanmugham were the five accused in the case. It was quoted that P.C. Cyriac, who was the Secretary of Municipal Administration and Water supply did not authorise the construction was transferred and was replaced by Pandey. It was also inferred that the GO was passed by Jayalalitha, Selavaganapathy and Pandey, against the Architectural and Aesthetics Aspects Committee (AAAC) headed by the Chief secretary of the Government of Tamil Nadu. On 6 December 1994, the government passed another order G.O., Ms. No.317 with effect from 13 May 1994, preventing buildings from provisions of the Development Control Rules. on 31 March 1994, Mittal was ordered by Madras High Court not to use any floor other than the zero and first floors. He went on higher appeal, which was quashed along with the G.O. of 13 May 1994.\n\nThe trial was held in a trial court in Chennai and was presided over by a special judge named Radhakrishnan. The prosecution team was headed by N. Natarajan, Senior Special Public Prosecutor for corruption cases against Jayalalitha, conducted by Special Public Prosecutors S. Ramasamy and K.E. Venkataraman, Special Public Prosecutor R. Karunakaran and advocate Sunder Mohan. The judge noted that the First Investigation Report (FIR) was filed only two years after the incident on account of the higher officials and politicians involved. He also noted that there was pecuniary advantage to the hotel management, though it was not proved that the passing of G.O. in favour of the hotel management has no reciprocal benefit for the government officials involved. It quoted that Pandey, who knew the details about the case, did not follow the Secretarial functions of passing the file directly to Jayalalitha via Selavaganapathy. On 2 February 2000, the five were convicted and Jayalalithaa was sentenced to one year of rigorous imprisonment and levied a fine of 2,000 on charges of criminal conspiracy and criminal misconduct by a public servant. The judge in his order stated, \"We have sufficient circumstantial evidence which proves beyond any reasonable doubt that Jayalalithaa, Selvaganapathy and Pandey committed criminal misconduct abetted by Rakesh and Palani, and all were party to the criminal conspiracy. Hence I am inclined to impose the minimum sentence contemplated under Section 13(2) of the Prevention of Corruption Act\". On 9 February 2000, the Madras High Court suspended the implementation of the sentence on appeal from Jayalalitha.\n\nThe supporters of Jayalalithaa were angered by the verdict, which led to statewide protests and violence, including damage to public property by AIADMK members. Two AIADMK cadres committed suicide by setting themselves ablaze. The violence resulted in burning five buses, damaging fifty buses and leaving 40 people injured. Major violence took place in the state capital Chennai where 22 buses of the state run MTC buses were damaged, leaving 27 people with injuries. The state bus transport was suspended for 24 hours and the police arrested 400 people across the state, with 317 from Chennai alone.\n\nThe major violence was that of 2000 Dharmapuri bus burning, where three girls were killed. On 2 February 2000, seventy students from the Tamil Nadu Agricultural University, Coimbatore, were returning from a study tour in two buses. They were stopped by mob, who forced the students to alight. One of the men threw a petrol bomb, setting fire to a bus before all of the students got out. Three girls, Hemalatha from Chennai, V. Gayathri from Virudhachalam and Kokilavani from Namakkal were burned to death, and 16 others sustained injuries. The scenes of the bus burning were captured and broadcast the following day on Sun TV. The incident caused anger amongst the student community. Schools and colleges were asked to shut for a week, and students across the state held silent processions and protest marches condemning the act. The three AIADMK men who were charged in the act, went on to be sentenced by the High Court to death on 5 December 2007, confirming the lower court order. There were 25 other cadre of AIADMK who were convicted on lesser charges and sentenced to seven years of rigorous imprisonment.\n\nThe verdict came at a time when the Tamil Maanila Congress, which was in alliance with DMK during the 1996 parliamentary elections, was supporting the AIADMK in the upcoming by-elections. DMK was alleging that it was the handiwork of AIADMK cadre, while AIADMK demanded a CBI (Central Buruea of Investigation) probe in the issue questioning the presence of DMK supported Sun TV crew during the time of burning.\n\n"}
{"id": "25316812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25316812", "title": "Rate-capping rebellion", "text": "Rate-capping rebellion\n\nThe rate-capping rebellion was a campaign within English local councils in 1985 which aimed to force the Conservative government of Margaret Thatcher to withdraw powers to restrict the spending of councils. The affected councils were almost all run by left-wing Labour Party leaderships. The campaign's tactic was that councils whose budgets were restricted would refuse to set any budget at all for the financial year 1985–86, requiring the government to intervene directly in providing local services, or to concede. However, all fifteen councils which initially refused to set a rate eventually did so, and the campaign failed to change government policy. Powers to restrict council budgets have remained in place ever since.\n\nRising local government spending had long been a concern of central government, but direct powers to limit individual council budgets were controversial and some Conservative Party members opposed them. While the measure was passing through Parliament, internal dissent within Liverpool City Council led to prolonged delay in budgeting which only ended when government grants were increased. Believing Liverpool to have forced a concession, left-wing Labour council leaders decided to emulate their approach, despite warnings by Liverpool that success was unlikely. Refusing to set a budget was illegal and the campaign was divisive: it did not unify the left-wing of the Labour Party in its support and the party leadership made it clear its lack of support.\n\nEight councils ended their campaign when the leadership proposed a legal budget, six when councillors from the majority group joined opposition councillors to overrule the leadership; Lewisham conceded in unique circumstances. Two councils, Lambeth and Liverpool held out for longer than others and were subjected to an extraordinary audit which resulted in the councillors responsible for not setting a budget being required to repay the amount the council lost in interest, and also being disqualified from office. Liverpool's delay in setting a budget caused a severe financial crisis which was denounced by the Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock.\n\nUntil 1989 in Scotland and 1990 in England and Wales, local councils raised their own revenue through a tax known as rates. Every property, whether residential or commercial, was given a rateable value which estimated the annual rent it would bring in. In the budgeting process the council would work out the total amount it needed to raise locally, and then divide it by the total rateable value within its boundaries to produce the proportion of the rateable value that each householder or business would have to pay. This proportion was known as 'the rate' for the year and the process was therefore known as 'setting a rate'.\n\nWhere there were two levels of local government, one of them (the lower tier) was designated as the principal local authority, with the higher tier authority setting its rate in the form of a precept which was added to the rate levels set by the lower tier authorities it covered. The lower tier was responsible for collecting the whole amount and then passing on the proceeds of the precept to the authority which had set it.\n\nThe Conservative Party came to power in 1979 committed to reducing public spending, and reducing spending by local authorities was part of this desire from the start. As early as November 1979 the Environment Secretary Michael Heseltine announced his intention to take powers to curb overspending local authorities. From the financial year 1980–81, councils which were deemed to be overspending had their central government grants reduced; in 1981–82, a system known as 'targets and penalties' was introduced.\n\nHowever, the election of many more Labour councillors and Labour councils in local elections in 1981 and 1982, many of whom were associated with the left-wing, meant that more councils were explicitly committed to increasing public spending. Local government spending started to rise again in 1982–83. As councils found their grants cut, their response was not to cut their budgets, but to increase the rates even further to compensate. Pressure within the Government, especially from the Treasury and Chief Secretary Leon Brittan was applied to the Department of the Environment to take more effective action. On 16 July 1982 Brittan told the conference of the Society of Local Authority Chief Executives that continued overspending was \"bound to cause central government to intervene ever more obtrusively and seek ever greater powers over local authority finances\".\n\nIn June 1982, a Cabinet committee had been set up to look at local government finance, on which Brittan sat. At this committee the idea of central government taking powers to limit rates was first developed; however it proved very unpopular with most Ministers on the committee: Michael Heseltine and his deputy Tom King thought it would be too complicated and possibly unconstitutional, and the Attorney General Sir Michael Havers had to give advice. When the committee reported to Cabinet on 17 January 1983 against rate limitation, Margaret Thatcher rejected its report and instructed Tom King (who had since been promoted to Environment Secretary) to come up with a foolproof system.\n\nKing put Terry Heiser, a civil servant then Deputy Secretary in charge of the Finance and Local Government at the Department of the Environment, in charge of developing the policy; Heiser produced two schemes known as 'selective' and 'general' rate limitation which were approved at a Cabinet meeting on 12 May – three days after Thatcher had called a general election. The Conservative Party manifesto declared:\n\nThe Conservatives' victory in the election was followed on 1 August 1983 by a white paper which put more details on the proposal. It stated that authorities would be selected on the basis of several factors, not only the absolute level of spending in comparison with the 'Grant Related Expenditure' (the notional level set by the Government needed to provide a standard level of service):\n\nIdentifying the local authorities which were spending significantly more than they received in grants and more than the government's targets, all were controlled by the Labour Party except for the City of London Corporation. The Government announced that it would aim to pass legislation in 1984, and then select a small number of councils to have their rates capped in 1985–86. The proposal to cap rates was controversial and many in local government were concerned where it would lead to; in particular the Audit Commission, responsible for overseeing local government spending, was concerned that it might be drawn into a political fight, casting doubt on its independence.\n\nOn 20 December the Rates Bill was published, with the new Environment Secretary Patrick Jenkin making it clear he would resign if he could not get it enacted. It was anticipated that the Bill would be highly controversial especially with members of the House of Lords and Jenkin was said to have reminded them of the Salisbury Convention which prevented the Lords from rejecting any Bill mentioned in an election manifesto. The Bill was soon under criticism in Parliament by Conservative MPs Geoffrey Rippon and Anthony Beaumont-Dark, and outside it by David Howell.\n\nWhen the Bill was debated on 17 January 1984, the opposition was led by former Prime Minister Edward Heath who attacked the centralisation of power; Heath led a total of 24 Conservative MPs in voting against the Bill, while 11 more abstained including Francis Pym. With opposition MPs debating the Bill in detail, the Government was forced to move a guillotine motion on 29 February, which was passed despite some Conservative protests. After making a minor concession exempting smaller councils from selective capping, the Bill went to the Lords where the Labour opposition moved an amendment asserting that it would \"gravely weaken local democracy\" and rejecting the Bill. The amendment was lost by 235 to 153, the Government regarding it as an issue of confidence which justified them summoning many Peers who rarely attended.\n\nThe main clause giving the Government power to cap rates was supported by the Lords with a majority of 10 votes despite some Conservative abstentions, and after some more concessions the Government saw the Bill through the Lords without a defeat. The Rates Act 1984 received Royal Assent on 26 June.\n\nWhen the Labour Party won control of Liverpool City Council in the local elections of May 1983, the council leadership was under the effective control of the Militant tendency, a group which had a majority of the active members of the Liverpool District Labour Party which directed the activities of the council group. The new leadership inherited a budget set by the Liberal Party administration which preceded them, which it considered was insufficient to meet their commitments to the electorate to the tune of £25m. The council, under Militant's guidance, began in Summer 1983 a political fight to win more resources from the government.\n\nWith no alteration in the government's stance, there was already talk of the council adopting illegal tactics in its 1984 budgeting, and on 19 March the District Auditor Les Stanford wrote to every councillor warning that the consequences of not setting a legal rate was a budget crisis, with surcharge and disqualification for councillors. A group of six Labour councillors under the leadership of Eddie Roderick declared they would not approve an illegal budget, but the majority of the Labour group thought the letter was a tactic to scare them into backing down. The council leadership put forward an illegal budget on 29 March; after an eight-hour meeting, Roderick put forward an amendment to delay setting a budget until 11 April to let officers prepare a legal one. A suggestion that council leader John Hamilton and chair of Finance Tony Byrne form an emergency committee to control finances in the interim was accepted but the delaying amendment fell: it had the support of the Conservatives and six councillors in Roderick's group but the Liberal councillors opposed it and supporters of the council leadership abstained. Instead the six Labour rebels, 30 Liberals and 18 Conservatives voted to postpone consideration.\n\nA further budgeting meeting on 25 April saw the illegal budget again presented but owing to the opposition of the Roderick group it was defeated; the Conservative and Liberal groups could not agree on an alternative and the matter was allowed to drop; among the council leadership it was decided to delay setting a rate until after the results of local elections to one third of the council. In the event Labour gained seven seats, which gave a majority even if the Roderick Group opposed. A further council meeting was set for 15 May, but on 9 May Patrick Jenkin announced that he would be going to Liverpool on 7 June to look at housing conditions, and would be willing to meet council leaders while there. The council therefore postponed budgeting again until the outcome of these talks was known.\n\nNothing resulted from the meeting with the councillors on 7 June, with the council leadership still putting forward an illegal budget, but Jenkin agreed to meet with them again in London on 9 July. At this meeting Jenkin told the councillors that he could offer about £20m extra money for housing. This concession was treated by the leading members of Liverpool City Council as a major victory, and two days later the council set a legal budget.\n\nOther commentators agreed that Liverpool's tactics had been successful: \"The Times\" printed a leader which began \"Today in Liverpool municipal militancy is vindicated\" and argued that the Government had subverted \"its whole local government financial policy of the past four years; it issues an open invitation to councils to say the caps don't fit and they won't wear them\". Within the Conservative government the political impact was immense. While the Government had not wanted to engage in a major fight in 1984 at the same time as the miners' strike, attitudes quickly hardened. Margaret Thatcher, in a lecture in November 1984 delivered a month after she survived an assassination attempt that killed five senior Conservatives, referred to a spectrum of groups undermining rule of law: \"At one end of the spectrum are the terrorist gangs within our borders, and the terrorist states which finance and arm them. At the other are the Hard Left operating inside our system, conspiring to use union power and the apparatus of local government to break, defy and subvert the law.\"\n\nOn the left, many thought that the outcome of Liverpool's budget dispute in 1984 had vindicated its confrontational approach.\n\nWhile the Liverpool dispute was still unresolved at the end of May 1984 there was already pressure on the left-wing leadership of Lewisham London Borough Council to copy the Liverpool option and confront the Government with a deficit budget. At a meeting of Labour controlled London boroughs in mid-June, the idea of a united strategy of many councils refusing to levy a rate was introduced. The idea caught on, especially with the leaders of the four South London boroughs of Lambeth, Southwark, Lewisham and Greenwich, and with John McDonnell, chair of the finance committee of the Greater London Council. On 22 June 1984, they signed a statement published in \"Labour Herald\" which outlined the strategy.\n\nThe day after \"Labour Herald\" was published, left-wing council leaders met in Liverpool to discuss tactics. The strategy of many councils refusing to levy rates was heavily discussed: John Austin-Walker, leader of Greenwich London Borough Council was quoted saying that enough councils would join \"sufficient .. to force the Government's hand\". Especially in London the policy was approved by groups of Labour councillors, and by the Greater London Labour Party executive.\n\nThe Labour Party's official line was to oppose the strategy as it was illegal. Over the weekend of 7–8 July, Labour councillors met at a conference organised by the Party in Sheffield; as the invitations included moderate councils, the meeting was expected to endorse the official line. The host, leader of Sheffield city council David Blunkett wrote a paper for the conference which said that \"collective action, achieving Government retreat, and not martyrdom, is the objective\". The meeting adopted an attitude of non-compliance, with many councillors willing to break the law; there were also hints from Liberal spokesman on local government Simon Hughes that Liberal councillors may do the same. Non-compliance included refusing to use the system in the Rates Act which allowed a council to ask for a reassessment of its cap: to do so meant supplying any information the Secretary of State required, and gave the Secretary of State power to impose \"such requirements relating to its expenditure or financial management as he thinks appropriate\" on the council. Labour-run councils regarded this provision as inviting a Conservative minister to undertake detailed scrutiny of their policies with power to change them, which they refused to countenance.\n\nOnce the list of councils to be capped was known, their leaders began meeting regularly under the auspices of the Local Government Information Unit, being joined by some uncapped councils (including Newham, Liverpool and Manchester) who decided to follow the same strategy because of the effect of grant penalties on their budget. Five strategies were under consideration:\n\n\nOf these options, the first was heavily advocated by the rate-capped councils from south London. It was strongly opposed by Liverpool, where the deputy leader Derek Hatton regarded it as \"a totally negative strategy\", and Militant supporting councillor Felicity Dowling complained that she had spent months arguing publicly against a formal 'no rate' stance which would have serious consequences. Liverpool felt obliged to go along with the other councils for the sake of unity although they felt sure that some of the leaders would not carry their groups in support and most of the other councils would soon drop out.\n\nThe councils facing rate-capping, together with others who were not capped but supported the campaign, hoped to get the Labour Party to vote to support their approach at the party's conference at Blackpool in early October. Local government was debated on the morning of Wednesday 3 October, with three issues to be voted on. The National Executive Committee sought approval for a statement which endorsed non-compliance with the Government and called for unity, but did not explicitly support illegality. There were then two composite motions; the first (composite 42), moved by the National Union of Public Employees, followed the lines of the NEC statement but supported councils framing budgets \"which can be defined as technical illegality\". The second (composite 43) was moved by Derek Hatton on behalf of Liverpool Broadgreen Constituency Labour Party declared support for \"any councils which are forced to break the law as a result of the Tory government's policies\".\n\nOn the previous day, Neil Kinnock had told the party not to \"scorn legality\", but the General Secretary of NUPE Rodney Bickerstaffe responded when moving composite 42 that the required cuts would force councils to break statutory obligations: \"The question is not should we break the law, but which law shall we obey?\". When summing up the debate on behalf of the NEC, David Blunkett (Leader of rate-capped Sheffield City Council) did not make clear that the NEC asked for composite 43 to be remitted, meaning withdrawn for further consideration. On a show of hands from those in the hall, the NEC statement and both composites were carried. The result, supporting illegal budgeting, dismayed the party leadership.\n\nBy December 1984 the first option had emerged as the preferred strategy as councils would not involve themselves in immediate illegality if they simply voted to postpone making a rate. In the new year of 1985 the strategy came under strain as the deadline for any application to reconsider the level of the cap (set at 15 January) approached; when no council applied, the deadline was extended to 24 January, but the councils held firm. However, some councils made informal approaches and the Department of the Environment revised some of the limits. The councils intending to set no rate met together to plan the campaign, and Patrick Jenkin gave them \"de facto\" recognition by meeting them as a group.\n\nThe meeting on 4 February 1985 went badly for the councils, with Jenkin refusing to abandon rate capping and grant penalties; Jenkin declared his willingness to meet the councils again if they wanted to negotiate. Shortly before, Labour leader Neil Kinnock had made clear his opposition to the policy of not setting a rate; he declared at the Labour Party local government conference that what Labour supporters were saying was \"Better a dented shield than no shield at all. Better a Labour council doing its best to help us than Government extending the full force of Government policy\". He saw the strategy as a gesture which would not help protect services. Notwithstanding his criticism, 26 councils were still considering defying the law.\n\nOne of the foundations of the campaign was the knowledge that certain aspects of the law on council budgeting in 1985 were not entirely clear. What was clear was that all local authorities had a duty to set a budget and therefore an annual rate or precept, under sections 2 and 11 of the General Rate Act 1967. Precepting authorities had the additional responsibility to set their budgets and precepts at least 21 days before the start of the new financial year; as the local government financial year began on 1 April, 21 days before that was 10 March. No such duty applied to rate-making authorities. In practice most set a budget and a rate some weeks before the new financial year, but not all did; some authorities routinely made their rates after the beginning of a financial year. The General Rate Act, section 2(1), also provided that the rate had to be sufficient to meet all estimated expenditure not met by other sources, thereby making any deficit budget illegal.\n\nChecking council activities was the responsibility of the district auditor who was appointed by the Audit Commission; if the auditor found that financial loss to the authority had been caused by the wilful misconduct of councillors, then they were under a duty to issue a certificate to the councillors responsible ordering them to repay the money in a surcharge. If the sum to be paid was more than £2,000 each, the councillor would also be disqualified from office. Councillors were held to be 'jointly and severally liable' for the sum, meaning that the total amount was recoverable from each individually should others be unable to pay.\n\nMost councillors contemplating delaying setting a rate considered that the crucial point would come at the point in the year when the first rate payments would have become due; if the council had not set a rate at that point, it would be unable to recover the interest on the payments due to have been made to it. The General Rate Act 1967 section 50 and schedule 10 gave ratepayers the right to pay by ten instalments which were to be paid at monthly intervals during the year. With a financial year ending on 31 March, the latest date to start the payment was 1 July; the council had to give ten days' notice of a payment being due, so the latest date for setting a rate without incurring irrecoverable debts was 20 June.\n\nEnvironment Secretary Patrick Jenkin announced the list of local authorities to be capped in a statement to the House of Commons on 24 July 1984. There were 18 authorities on the list:\n\n\nJenkin decided to limit the 1985/86 budget of 15 of these councils to the cash level of their 1984/85 budget. In the cases of the GLC, ILEA and Greenwich, where budgets were over 70% above their grant-related expenditure, and had gone up by more than 30% since 1981/82, he placed the cap at 1½% below the 1984/85 budget. 16 out of the 18 councils were under majority control by Labour at the time they were designated. The exceptions were Portsmouth, where there was a Conservative majority, and Brent where no party had an overall majority. A Labour administration had held power but when Labour councillor Ambrozine Neil joined the Conservatives in December 1983, the Conservatives took control with Liberal support.\n\nPortsmouth City Council's Conservative leader Ian Gibson called the decision to cap his budget \"iniquitous\", explaining that the reason for high spending was that the council had heavy debt charges from extensive rebuilding several years before. He pledged to use the appeal mechanism, but when the matter came to a vote on 25 September the council voted not to do so.\n\nOn 11 December 1984, Patrick Jenkin confirmed the list of 18 councils announced for capping and announced provisional figures for their budgets. For 12 out of the 18, the budget cap meant an absolute cut in the level of the rates to be paid by households. In January Portsmouth decided to accept the cap and make a budget within the limits which the Government was planning to impose; it was therefore removed from the list.\n\nAfter the figures for the budget limitations were revised, Patrick Jenkin introduced the first order to limit budgets on the four precepting authorities (the GLC, ILEA, Merseyside and South Yorkshire) in the House of Commons on 6 February 1985. After a short debate the order was approved by 255 to 193 votes. The second order, covering the remaining 13 rate-making authorities, was set down for debate on 20 February, but on the previous day Jenkin had to agree to reconsider the limit for Haringey after receiving a letter from its district auditor saying it would have a deficit if the original limit had been imposed. At 10.15pm on the night before the order would have been debated, Jenkin announced that the debate was being delayed. After the figures for six councils were altered, revised figures for the caps were approved by a vote of 267 to 184 in the House of Commons on 25 February.\n\nThe budget restrictions imposed are shown in the table. The first column states whether the council made a rate or set a precept to be collected by other authorities on its behalf. The next column gives the 1985/86 budget limit imposed; following that are the budget plans showing what the council intended to spend in 1985/86. The maximum rate imposed by the cap (in pence) comes next, followed by the maximum percentage change on 1984/85 rate levels. The final two columns shows the rate that the council would have hoped to set, and the percentage change on 1984/85 rate levels this represented.\n\nThe two capped councils that were controlled by the Conservatives, Brent and Portsmouth, were never part of the strategy of not setting a rate. Portsmouth having already accepted its cap, it set its budget without incident on 5 March 1985. Brent, where the Conservatives had taken over in December 1983, had not, but set a legal budget on 13 March 1985.\n\nThe two metropolitan county councils were subject to the legal requirement to make their precept by 10 March. They were also facing their own abolition at the end of March 1986. Faced with the prospect of immediate legal sanctions if they failed to do set a budget and with no continuing existence, neither were inclined to press their objections to rate-capping. At a meeting of capped councils on 19 February, both made it clear that they would set a legal precept on time. South Yorkshire County Council then made it clear publicly that it would fix a budget within the cap, and proceeded to do so at a budget meeting on 7 March.\n\nMerseyside also decided on 7 March not to defy the cap but to set a £213m budget substantially lower than the limit: the precept was 73p which was much lower than the cap of 82.86p, meaning rates rose by 11% instead of the 27% which was allowed. The budget set no further details on council spending, but the council created a special mechanism to keep spending under the limit. The council had obtained legal advice that this course of action was risky, but likely to be accepted as legal if the council was sincerely trying to keep its budget within the cap. Council leader Keva Coombes called for extra assistance but was rebuffed by Patrick Jenkin.\n\nFrom an early stage, the GLC and its leader Ken Livingstone and finance chair John McDonnell were heavily involved in planning the campaign to defy rate-capping. Their involvement also took in the Inner London Education Authority which was technically a special committee of the Greater London Council, consisting of members elected to the GLC from inner London, plus one member from each of the inner London boroughs. As both the GLC and ILEA set a precept rather than a rate, both were under a legal requirement to set a budget by 10 March. Livingstone was conscious that the Labour group on the GLC had recent experience of deciding whether to defy the law, having split 23 to 22 to vote in 1981 not to comply with a House of Lords judgment ordering it to raise public transport fares. He was not confident of persuading more councillors to support defying the law on budgeting, but because the Government was intending to abolish the GLC on 31 March 1985, he went along with supporting the campaign.\n\nJust as the tactic of not setting a rate became popular among the councils subject to rate-capping, the Government suffered a defeat in the House of Lords which gave the GLC an extra year of existence and subjecting it to budgeting and rate-capping for 1985–86. Owing to the inevitable split in the Labour group of councillors, it was agreed not to debate the issue until just before the deadline; in the meantime, to stop the Government setting a harsh cap on the budget, the council ordered that no detailed budget documents would be published. John McDonnell was given the responsibility of leading the campaign in which he claimed that the rate-capping would require a reduction of £138m in the planned spending.\nAs the time for voting on the budget approached, Livingstone discovered that instead of the outright illegality involved in resolving not to make a rate, the other councils were planning to exploit the legal grey area of refusing to make a rate for the time being. This strategy would put them in a different position to the GLC and ILEA who would be illegal immediately. Budget papers prepared by the Director-General Maurice Stonefrost then revealed that the capping limit still allowed the council to increase spending substantially; the papers were circulated to all members of the GLC on 1 March. A long and acrimonious debate at a Labour group meeting on 4 March agreed by 24 votes to 18 to support the legal budget with its £25m in growth. The GLC Labour group split into three factions, with one group of 10 under John McDonnell insistent on not setting a rate, another of 8 under Ken Livingstone willing to defy the law but also to accept a budget at the cap if that stance failed, and a third group unwilling to support any illegal budgeting.\n\nFirst to meet was ILEA, on 7 March; supporters of the no rate strategy had hoped that it would still vote for defiance but the authority ended up adopting a legal budget by a margin of four votes. The GLC met the following day; with the chairman Illtyd Harrington not voting except to break a tie, one Labour member ill and another absent on holiday, the full voting strength was Labour 45, Conservatives 41 and Alliance 3. The first budget to be voted on was the Conservative proposal for cut in the rates to 27p; this was rejected by 48 to 38. A budget setting the rate at the maximum allowed by the cap was defeated by 59 to 30 with both Livingstone and McDonnell opposed. At this point the meeting was adjourned until Sunday 10 March, at which meeting a second attempt to set a budget at the cap level was rejected by 54 to 34. After a further budget proposed by the Conservative group was rejected, another budget at the cap level was proposed by Steve Bundred but again rejected by 53 to 36. Finally a budget proposed by moderate Labour councillor Barrie Stead, setting the rate below cap level, was passed by 60 to 26.\n\nFrom an early stage in 1984, before the official announcement of the councils to be rate-capped, Basildon had worked on the assumption that it would have its budget restricted. In March, prior to the capping list being announced, the council leadership invited the Audit Commission to independently investigate its spending, hoping that it would vindicate the council's decisions. The report found that the council's high spending was not the result of inefficiency but of policy decisions, and the fact that as a new town it had higher interest payments and higher spending on managing housing. The council duly published the report after it was capped, making much of the fact that the Audit Commission had exonerated it.\n\nDetermined to frustrate the capping order, Basildon announced at the end of February 1985 that it could evade it by setting up a limited company – Basildon Economic Development Corporation Ltd – through which the council would contract to pay grants of £140,000 to voluntary organisations. When it came to the budgeting meeting on 7 March 1985, a group of rebel Labour councillors pulled back from pressing the council to join the others in refusing to set a rate; instead the council set the rate at the limit allowed by the cap. The council leader Harry Tinworth claimed that the council had won the first round in a battle with the Government to preserve essential services. Later that month the council announced its plan to sell council mortgages to a merchant bank to raise capital finance to build sheltered homes for the elderly, also evading the cap.\n\nThe north-eastern borough of North Tyneside was not rate-capped but the effect of rate penalties had reduced its rate support grant from £55m to £38m. On 26 February 1985 the Labour leadership of the council called a press conference to announce that the Labour group had decided to recommend to the council that it not set a rate, to allow negotiations with the Government to produce improved grant. At the council's budget meeting on 8 March, all Labour councillors voted along these lines; the council leader Brian Flood declared that he wished to see spending growth of £4.2m.\n\nIn the middle of March the district auditor, Brian Singleton, sent a letter to every councillor warning them of the legal dangers of delaying setting a rate. At a special council meeting called by the Conservative group on 22 March 1985, the Labour chair of the Finance Committee Harry Rutherford proposed an £83m budget which included uncommitted growth of only £300,000 instead of the £4.2m wanted by the Leader; he attracted the support of the opposition Conservative and Alliance councillors together with 12 other Labour rebels and the budget was passed. The chief whip of the Labour group Stephen Byers said that the auditor would have to check the budget was legal. Four of the thirteen Labour rebels were suspended from the party for terms between six and twelve months, and the others were reprimanded and required to give a written undertaking to observe group policy in future.\n\nAfter the rate-capping of Thamesdown was announced, the Member of Parliament for Swindon Simon Coombs (who was Parliamentary Private Secretary to Kenneth Baker, the local government minister) pressed the council to use the appeal mechanism provided in the Rates Act 1984. The ruling Labour group maintained the unity of the capped councils by refusing to appeal, and on this issue had the support of Conservative councillors. However the leadership of the Labour group was relatively moderate and wary of the 'no rate' strategy. Thamesdown seemed to some observers an odd target for capping; \"The Times\"' correspondent reported local rumours that it had been selected for capping in the hope that it might appeal and be removed, thereby damaging the policy of confrontation.\n\nOn 7 March, Thamesdown passed a motion declaring its inability to set a rate. The council's chief executive, David Kent, wrote to all councillors after the meeting telling them that a rate had to be set by the end of March, and pressure appeared also from the Department of Health and Social Security which warned on 21 March that there would be a problem paying Housing Benefit to the council if no rate was made. The council felt sufficiently concerned to avoid budget chaos that it set up a special resources sub-committee to agree emergency measures for ordering supplies. On 25 March the Mayor summoned a special council meeting for 28 March, while senior councillors discussed options with the borough solicitor. The meeting on 28 March saw prolonged disruption from the public gallery by those who supported continued defiance, and Mayor Harry Garrett called on the police to keep order. Among the councillors the decision was taken to approve a legal rate of 196.65p; a council spokesman claimed that the council would be going ahead with what it was going to do anyway.\n\nInitial figures for the rate cap of Leicester City Council would have required it to lower rates by 57%, a level which council leader Peter Soulsby described as \"savage treatment\". However, later figures allowed the council to include an additional £3.7m in its budget. On 7 March 1985 the council approved a budget of £30,650,000 (significantly over the cap), but not a rate to go with it; the motion also told the Secretary of State that if the rate limit and grant penalties were withdrawn, the council could set a rate rise lower than the rate of inflation. Although this vote was unanimous, the Labour leadership soon decided that there was no point in holding out. The council came under pressure not to give in, with a letter from the 'West End Rate-Capping Campaign Group' sent to each councillor urging them to continue to set no rate, and a petition of 2,000 presented to the council opposing rate-capping by Mrs Megan Armstrong who urged the council to defy the Government even if it meant breaking the law. From the other side, the Conservative group on Leicestershire County Council attempted to get their authority to initiate a judicial review as Leicester collected and passed on its precept; the attempt failed as the Liberal group opposed it.\n\nThe council leadership proposed a deficit budget at a policy committee meeting on 27 March; despite being told by city treasurer Michael Lambert that it was illegal, the committee referred it to full council the following day. Although 22 petitions containing 9,000 signatures were presented to the council meeting calling for continued defiance, the council adopted the budget; finance committee chair Graham Bett said that it was not the rate of elected councillors but of a \"remote right-wing Government in London\". Seven Labour councillors were absent from the meeting, continuing to support defiance.\n\nManchester City Council was not rate-capped. However its leadership was fully committed to the strategy of not setting a rate, arguing that the effect of the grant penalties system harmed it. A large rally protesting against rate-capping was held in Manchester on 6 March 1985, followed the next day by the council voting not to set a rate. When, the following week, the opposition Liberal Party group on the council called a special meeting to propose their own budget (which included a 4.4% rate rise), the council leader Graham Stringer insisted that the no rate strategy would continue. Liberal leader David Sandiford was ruled out of order by Stringer when he attempted to speak about the no rate strategy at a Policy Committee meeting on 17 March.\n\nLegal pressure on the council leadership began early when the District Auditor wrote to the City Clerk saying that the decision not to set a rate was 'wilful misconduct'. At the special meeting of the council on 22 March, the Liberal proposed budget was defeated, but 16 Labour councillors (including the Lord Mayor) supported it. One of them, Paul Murphy, insisted the council could make a rate without job losses. A further council meeting on 25 March saw 17 Labour councillors support the Liberal budget, but it was again rejected by 52 to 23.\n\nOn the last day of the financial year, 31 March, the council met again in its fifth budgeting meeting in a month. In a six-hour meeting, a left-wing amendment declaring it impossible to set a rate was defeated by 51–45, with 31 Labour councillors opposing it. A Conservative budget involving a 0.7% rate rise was voted down; the Labour chair of the Economic Development committee then proposed a 257.5p rate (a 6% rise) which was agreed by 83–1 with 12 abstentions. Graham Stringer declared that \"Manchester's case and the national campaign has been weakened\" but pledged that there would be no cuts and they would continue to support other councils.\n\nCommitment to the no rate strategy by Lewisham, under its leader Ron Stockbridge, was strong and the council passed a motion on 7 March declaring its inability to make a rate along with many others. Lewisham worked together with the other south London boroughs of Lambeth, Southwark and Greenwich in a joint publicity campaign under the title 'Standing Together'. However, the council's stance was unexpectedly ended at a council meeting on 4 April. A group of 20 trade union members had invaded the chamber prior to the start of the meeting, protesting against rate-capping and intending to prevent the council meeting from being held at all. Labour councillors then withdrew to a separate room to discuss tactics, not noticing that after an hour the demonstration had dispersed. The Conservative councillors who remained in the council chamber then quickly convened a meeting under a temporary chairman, and passed a budget reducing rates by 6%.\n\nThe Labour group, incensed at being caught off guard, took legal advice but were told that the budget as approved was \"more legal than not\". The Conservative councillor who had led the initiative of calling the meeting claimed that Labour councillors had told him it was the best thing to happen, as it removed the threat of disqualification and surcharge while allowing Labour to blame the Conservatives locally for any service cuts. However, Ron Stockbridge subsequently resigned as council leader.\n\nThe Government had been forced to change the level of the cap on Haringey Borough Council due to the discovery that it had overpaid housing subsidy. Due to the system of penalties, the repayment of £5m required a rate rise of £16m. On 7 March, the council passed a motion in similar terms to others, declaring its inability to make a rate. At the next meeting on 4 April, all 34 members of the Labour group stuck to their decision and were joined by an independent councillor in voting not to set a rate (23 Conservatives disagreed).\nHowever at a party meeting on 10 April the attitude of the council leadership had changed and a significant split opened up.\n\nCouncil leader George Meehan proposed at a meeting of Labour Party councillors that a legal rate be set at the council meeting the day after, but was defeated by \"a clear majority\" in favour of delaying a rate until 29 April by which time the council would have met ministers. Meehan then offered his resignation. At the council meeting Meehan formally proposed the legal rate and then joined with 12 other Labour councillors and the opposition Conservative group to pass it; the majority of the Labour group voted in favour of delay until 29 April. Meehan then left office and Bernie Grant succeeded him as leader.\n\nAlthough not capped, Newham was severely affected by grant penalties. It had worked with the capped councils and decided to join the campaign: on 7 March the council members unanimously passed a motion declaring that they could not set a rate. Council deputy leader Alan Mattingly said that the majority of councillors would go to jail rather than cut services. It was soon clear that there was a significant split in the Labour group as Leader Jack Hart told a council meeting on 28 March that the Government would not increase their spending limit and urged members to be realistic. His ally, councillor David Gilles, proposed a budget of £151.5m. Alan Mattingly by contrast urged the council to stand firm and despite Hart's support the budget was defeated by 18 to 35; a budget proposed by the SDP was voted down by 20 to 33.\n\nIn April the council leadership received a warning from the trade unions representing council workers that their support for the council's stance was limited and \"the day you stop paying wages then our fight is with you\". A meeting of Labour councillors on 15 April agreed to support a budget of £150.6m, and a council meeting the following day approved it.\n\nWith council leader David Blunkett holding a place on the Labour Party National Executive Committee, Sheffield was one of the most prominent Labour councils of the 1980s and Blunkett was an unofficial spokesman on behalf of Labour in local government. One of the rallies held on 6 March to protest against rate-capping was held in Sheffield. On 7 March the council passed a budget (including capital spending which was not subject to the cap) of £249m, which was £31.1m over the cap; £11.8m of the gap was met from reserves. The council then passed a motion calling for income and expenditure to be reconciled and instructed the Policy Committee to prepare a detailed budget. The council did not set the rate to go with the budget but instead passed a motion declaring that it could not set a rate. Later in March the council passed a second resolution which explained that it would not set a rate until learning the outcome of Greenwich borough council's application for judicial review which was due to be heard on 12 April.\n\nSheffield's own action for judicial review of its spending limit ended on 2 April when Mr Justice Woolf refused it permission, ruling that while the High Court had jurisdiction, any matter involving political judgment should be dealt with through the democratic processes; an appeal failed on 2 May. A further meeting on 24 April again postponed setting a rate. By the beginning of May, leading members of the council were acknowledging the risks of their stance: the deputy leader Alan Billings talked of \"asking people to commit political suicide for the greater good\", while Blunkett talked in \"Tribune\" of \"those who look for corpses .. to prove that there has been a genuine struggle\". Blunkett appealed for campaigners to avoid a shambles such as had happened at the GLC.\n\nOn 7 May the council came to a crunch meeting at which the council leadership put forward a motion which stopped delaying fixing a rate but instead refused to set a rate until the Government began negotiating. It was understood that this motion would invite immediate legal action. Instead, after a five-hour meeting, 20 Labour councillors voted with the Liberal and Conservative groups on the council in favour of an amendment to set a rate within the cap limit; the amendment passed by 46 to 38 with one abstention. After the vote, it was noticed that the rate demands sent out by the council appeared to have been printed before the council had formally set the rate. The problems for Sheffield did not end there as the council leadership asked chief officers to implement the original budget. A report by the district auditor in July declared Sheffield's deficit budget illegal and the council had to instruct the service committees to reduce spending in line with a capped budget.\n\nTower Hamlets London Borough Council, which was not capped, was in the unusual position of being unable to set a rate due to the actions of dissenting councillors from the majority group combining with the opposition. The council had a leadership from the right-wing of the Labour Party; council leader John Riley argued that the rates were high enough and that ratepayers ought not to have a massive increase. However two left-wing Labour councillors Chris Rackley and Thérèse Shanahan announced that they would join with the opposition Liberal group to support a 'no cuts' budget. Their stance attracted others and the Labour budget was defeated with nine Labour councillors voting against it.\n\nThe response of the Labour leadership was to expel the nine rebels, a move opposed by the Greater London Labour Party and by the majority of Labour Party members in the borough. This move reduced the Labour group to a minority on the council. When the Mayor Bob Ashkettle attempted to put through a budget at a council meeting on 23 April with an 8% rise, legal advice was sought and the motion was ruled unconstitutional. The Liberal group was opposed to this budget, demanding extra spending. The leadership then tried to compromise, but an extra £3.5m in the budget failed to shift the Liberal opposition on 8 May. It was not until a meeting on 14 May 1985 called by the Liberal group that a rate was set by 33 votes to 10.\n\nSupport for the no rate strategy among leading councillors in Hackney was among the strongest anywhere. The open declaration by the council of its intentions led one Hackney resident, Mourad Fleming, to go to law before the council held its budgeting meeting seeking judicial review of the council's actions. In February 1985 Fleming had been the SDP candidate in a byelection in Hackney's Clissold ward which had been won by a Labour candidate pledged to the no rate strategy. On 6 March 1985 in the High Court, Mr Justice Mann issued an interlocutory declaration that the council had a duty to set a rate which did not breach the cap and that it could not use interim borrowing powers. Notwithstanding the judgment and firm advice from the borough solicitor that the council had to set a rate, on 7 March the council passed a resolution declaring that \"the council considers it would be impossible to make a rate\". The resolution disguised the refusal to set a rate as a delay pending negotiation with the Secretary of State.\n\nOn 20 March, council leader Hilda Kean declared that the council would be bankrupt by the middle of April if unable to set a rate and abjured the use of creative accounting to evade the cap. The council slightly softened its policy on 28 March, declaring that it was only deferring making a rate and committing to making a legal rate in due course; a motion to stick to the previous formula was defeated by 32 to 24. The council having ignored the High Court's interlocutory declaration, Mourad Fleming's judicial review application proceeded to trial on 1 April; Fleming agreed to vary an order and let the council use borrowing powers in the 1985/86 financial year, but said that he would ask the court to appoint a receiver to run the council if no rate was set. At the end of the hearing, Mr Justice Woolf found both Hackney's resolutions of 7 and 28 March unlawful and quashed them but refused to immediately order the council to set a rate. Instead he adjourned the case to 16 April.\n\nMr Justice Woolf's judgment on 16 April observed that the council \"have determined, irrespective of their legal duty, not to make a rate\". Having decided that this was unlawful, he then grappled with the issue of the discretion available to the council of when to set its rate which he found the council had to use reasonably and in the interests of ratepayers. Woolf again declined to issue an order of \"mandamus\" compelling the council to set a rate, instead stating that he would do so unless Hackney indicated it would make a rate within an acceptable timescale. After hearing submissions about what such a timescale would be, he decided to give the council \"a relatively liberal period of time in which to give effect to this judgment\" and fixed the end of May as the deadline. On 2 May, Hackney also lost its appeal against the ruling in its own judicial review challenge of the Secretary of State's spending guidance, and was refused leave to appeal to the House of Lords. The council was warned by the borough solicitor that the legal costs of attempting further legal challenge would probably be the subject of a surcharge of councillors.\n\nBy the middle of May it was clear that enough Labour councillors in Hackney had become willing to vote for a legal budget and that the council would not defy the court judgment. A group of Labour councillors joined with the council's Liberal group to produce an acceptable budget. An attempt to hold a budgeting meeting on 16 May was thwarted when some town hall staff locked up the building and refused to allow councillors in; when the council met on 22 May, it allowed addresses by delegations from trade unions and community groups at which the secretary of the joint shop stewards Alf Sullivan described what was proposed as \"a bent budget\" introduced to \"cover your retreat from the fight\". When the vote on the budget was called at 12:45 AM, the chamber was invaded with the result that the meeting was adjourned to the following day. On 23 May the council finally approved a legal budget put forward by Labour councillor Tony Millwood. 24 Labour councillors joined six Conservatives and three Liberals to pass it, while 26 Labour councillors remained opposed. Hilda Kean, who said the decision was a betrayal, resigned the leadership along with her deputy Andrew Puddephatt.\n\nPart of a group of four south London boroughs, with whom it had formed a joint publicity campaign, Southwark was strongly committed to the no rate strategy. The council duly passed a motion on 7 March declaring its inability to set a rate, and at the end of March reiterated its stance by a large majority. When the council asked ratepayers to keep paying the same rates as the previous year, the local government minister William Waldegrave said in Parliament that until a rate was set, ratepayers need not pay anything.\n\nWhile the leadership was determined not to set a rate, there were moderate Labour councillors who were willing to defy the whip to vote for a legal budget. Supporters sought to prevent them from being put in such a position. On 16 April, council leader Tony Ritchie prevented a meeting called to set a legal rate from continuing by using powers under the council's standing orders to adjourn pending new advice; the meeting lasted only two minutes. A further meeting on 24 April was also swiftly adjourned, although on this occasion it was because Ritchie collapsed and had to be taken to hospital. When the council finally met on 26 April, the chamber was invaded by members of tenants groups and council staff with the result that the meeting broke up and was cancelled by the Mayor.\n\nOn 1 May the council managed to meet, and the meeting went on for seven hours of angry debate. It resulted in a legal budget written by Labour moderates, which would have cut the rates, being voted down by the Labour leadership and the Conservative group. A further, more orderly, meeting on 8 May voted down a Conservative budget and a deficit budget proposed as a compromise by a minority faction in the Labour group. The next day, the District Auditor Brian Skinner wrote to all councillors in authorities which had not yet set rates telling them to do so without delay and certainly before the end of May deadline given by the High Court in the Hackney case. The council maintained its defiance at the next meeting on 16 May, but by a margin of only one vote (24 to 23). On 23 May, a vote to continue not setting a rate was passed only on the casting vote of the Mayor.\n\nAs the end of May deadline approached, the Conservative group leader Toby Eckersley voiced his dislike of the pressure put on him to vote for a budget featuring an increase in spending of 34% to solve the dispute, especially since the motion also included political criticism of the Conservative government. Finally at a meeting on 30 May, the council voted by 26 to 23 to set a rate at the maximum level allowed, although the budget did not fund £9.5m of spending commitments. The final voting showed that 25 Labour councillors had supported the budget together with one Independent, 21 Labour councillors and two Independents had opposed, while the eight Conservative and two Liberal councillors had joined one Labour councillor in abstaining.\n\nThe leader of Islington borough council, Margaret Hodge, had chaired the meeting of the Labour london boroughs in June 1984 at which the strategy of setting no rate had been decided upon, and according to Ken Livingstone, claimed to have come up with the idea. Hodge was one of the public leaders of the campaign and on the evening of Thursday 7 March the council organised a people's festival in the civic auditorium while the council formally voted not to set a rate. On 22 April the council published the results of an opinion poll it had commissioned which showed that 57% of people in Islington supported the council in the struggle, with 20% supporting the Government. Asked what the council should do, the poll found 37% wanted the council to continue not to set a rate, 27% wanted the council to resign and force an election on the issue, and 21% wanted the council to set a legal rate.\n\nWhen the council met again on 23 April, the members had been warned by District Auditor Brian Skinner of \"serious consequences\" including surcharge should they decide not to set a rate; Margaret Hodge ignored the advice and commented as she moved the motion that she would not \"abandon the collective unity that is so important in the struggle against the Government\". However the council sent out a circular requesting ratepayers to volunteer rate payments in accordance with the previous years' demands. The council deliberately took steps to justify its delay in setting a rate by obtaining counsel's opinion; on 26 April Hodge wrote to Brian Skinner declaring that \"important [specified] matters justifying such a deferral arose\" and that \"matters [have been] taken to minimize and cancel any possible losses which might arise\".\n\nAfter a series of warning letters, District Auditor Skinner was invited to Islington town hall on 8 May to meet the council leaders and discuss his draft report on Islington. Skinner found that the streets outside were full of thousands of demonstrators supporting the council, which the councillors insisted had arrived spontaneously. Despite police protection he was kicked when attempting to leave after the meeting, and had to be smuggled out lying on the back seat of a police car covered by coats. An application for an emergency debate in the House of Commons by Islington North MP Jeremy Corbyn was turned down that afternoon.\n\nAs with other councils still without a budget, the auditor had ordered Islington to set a legal rate by the end of May or face an extraordinary audit. On 30 May, the Local Government committee of the Islington Labour Party narrowly voted to support a legal rate, and the following day Margaret Hodge proposed a legal budget to the council. The galleries were crowded with people urging the council to continue the fight and an amendment to continue to defer setting a rate was moved by Chris Calnan, but the amendment was lost by 34 votes to 10 with six abstentions and Islington duly set a legal rate a few hours before the deadline.\n\nAll 33 Labour councillors on Camden Borough Council voted on 7 March against setting a rate; they included Stephen Bevington who had only been elected a week before on a platform of setting no rate. The Conservative group on the council, who had supported setting the rate at the level of the cap, immediately called for surcharges on councillors where the delay in setting the rate led to financial losses for the council. At a Labour group meeting on 26 March, Alan Woods moved a motion to declare that Camden would continue to refuse to set a rate even if other boroughs gave up; with council leader Phil Turner abstaining, the motion was lost by 15 votes to 14.\n\nFor the moment the council continued, citing the forthcoming judicial review action by Greenwich as justification. In the middle of April, a Labour councillor was quoted by the \"Hampstead & Highgate Express\" contemplating alternate strategies of non-compliance and worrying about drifting into surcharge and disqualification \"through nothing more than indecision, confusion and default\", although the council continued to vote against setting a rate at its meeting on 24 April.\n\nAlong with other councils who had set no rate, Camden was sent a statutory report by the district auditor Brian Skinner on 9 May giving them until the end of May to set a rate or face an extraordinary audit. The Conservative opposition thought this move may have been counter-productive, and the council went until 5 June before meeting. This meeting continued until 3 am when ten Labour councillors rebelled to vote through a budget proposed by former council leader Roy Shaw which passed by 33 to 26. Shaw, who was a member of the Audit Commission, had agreed with the Deputy Controller of the commission that he would be alerted before his council position came into conflict with his audit role. The budget agreed by Camden was \"prima facie\" unbalanced and illegal as it showed expenditure of £132.46m against a cap of £117.609m, but by counting income from the GLC's 'stress borough' fund and using accounting tricks, it came into balance.\n\nGreenwich had shown early interest in leading a fight against rate-capping, and its leader John Austin-Walker had signed the personal statement published in \"Labour Herald\" on 22 June 1984. The council duly passed a resolution declaring its inability to set a rate, and John Austin-Walker accepted that his refusal to cut spending \"may place us beyond the law\". The council brought its own proceedings for judicial review against the government's decision to cap its budget, which was set down for initial hearing on 12 April with the main hearing not until 19 June. In April the council sent out standing order forms to ratepayers which were calculated on the basis of a budget at the cap limit, but denied that this marked a concession.\n\nOn 19 April the council was warned by the District Auditor Brian Skinner that the judge's decision in the Hackney case not to require the council to set a rate did not give Greenwich the same leeway, but on 24 April the council again refused to set a rate. The auditor followed up with a formal audit report on 9 May, giving a deadline of the end of that month to set a rate, accompanied by counsel's opinion which stated that the pending High Court case did not override the council's legal duty to make a rate. The council had obtained its own counsel's opinion that refusing to make a rate pending the outcome of the High Court case was reasonable, and the auditor's opinion took steps to nullify it by stating \"A councillor cannot escape from being guilty of misconduct by relying on advice of counsel where that advice is shown to be wrong\". The borough solicitor Tony Child continued to insist that the council still had discretion to refuse to make a rate.\n\nDespite the auditor's deadline, Greenwich voted by 39 to 19 against setting a rate on 29 May, although it quietly stopped using the demand for spending concessions as a reason for its actions. A 12-hour council meeting called on Saturday 8 June eventually voted to set a rate, under two weeks before the High Court hearing on which the council had pinned its hopes. The judicial review went ahead but on 18 July Greenwich was notified that it had lost: Mr Justice McNeill ruled that the government acted lawfully. Greenwich appealed but the Court of Appeal upheld the judgment.\n\nDespite their doubts about the strategy, the leaders of Liverpool City Council were keen not to damage the unity of the campaign; after the previous year's experience the council believed there was no legal requirement to set a rate until June. Accordingly, on budget day in 1985, Liverpool's Finance Committee chairman Tony Byrne stated that the council needed a £265m budget, but because the Government grant penalties restricted them to £222m, the council would not set a rate. There was one significant change from the past year, as the Audit Commission had appointed Tim McMahon as the new District Auditor for Liverpool at the beginning of May 1985. McMahon wrote to all councillors on 21 May warning them that not setting a rate by the end of the month would result in an extraordinary audit and asking them individually for reasons why they should not be surcharged. The council's leadership believed that the deadline really was 20 June, and had pencilled in a meeting on 14 June for setting a rate.\n\nOn 10 June, the auditor sent out letters to the Liverpool councillors reporting that the council's failure to set a rate that financial year had already caused a loss of £106,103, and notifying them of an extraordinary audit under section 20 of the Local Government Finance Act 1982. According to council deputy leader Derek Hatton, the letters had the effect of prolonging the dispute: \"According to McMahon's assessment of the situation, we had already broken the law. So what the hell had we to lose by doing it again?\" Their continued defiance took the form of a deficit budget involving a 9% rise in rates, which was to produce £236m, but also approving £265m of spending. The budget was approved by 49 to 42 on 14 June, with five Labour councillors opposed. The council leadership saw the deficit budget as a tactic to comply with the law in one sense and so buy time.\n\nThe council was given notice of an extraordinary audit on 26 June with the auditor concentrating on the council's loss of interest on payments from the Department of Health and Social Security (which would have covered the rate rebates element in housing benefit subsidy), and on payments from the Treasury Valuer (which paid contributions \"in lieu\" of rates on Crown property). The amount of both of these payments depended on the level of rates, and so no payment could be made until the level of rates was set.\n\nFrom the start, Lambeth had been in the forefront of the campaign. Despite rumours that three might break ranks, all 34 Labour councillors present voted on 7 March 1985 not to set a rate. As the new financial year approached, Labour councillor Stewart Cakebread dissented, saying that a budget set at the cap limit would not require cuts. The Conservative group summoned an emergency meeting on 10 April 1985 but their proposal for a legal rate was defeated by 34 to 30. A second Labour councillor, Janet Boston, rebelled at a special policy committee meeting on 30 April, supporting a Conservative motion to call a special council meeting on Sunday 5 May; both Boston and Cakebread were barristers. Meanwhile, council officials estimated that the failure to set a rate by 1 May had already cost the council £170,000 in lost interest.\n\nAs had happened on other councils, the district auditor wrote to all councillors on 9 May telling them that an extraordinary audit would follow if no rate had been set by the end of the month; council leader Ted Knight insisted that the council would not set a rate at its meeting on 15 May \"or any time after until the Government returns the money it has taken from us\". At this meeting a third Labour councillor, Vince Leon, joined Boston and Cakebread in voting for legal budgets. Boston and Cakebread were removed from all committees by the Lambeth Labour Group at the end of the month, and Boston was told to resign her seat by her local ward Labour Party (she refused). Cakebread received the support of his branch.\nThe district auditor, Brian Skinner, found that his permission to use offices in Lambeth town hall allocated to NALGO was withdrawn in mid-May; he was also surprised to discover his photograph on a threatening mock 'Wanted' poster in his local supermarket. Skinner's employers, the Audit Commission, sought police assistance in tracking down and destroying copies of the poster. After a council meeting on 5 June again rejected a legal budget (by 32–30), the Audit Commission stated that a letter would be sent immediately to all councillors who had not voted for the motion (possibly including two Conservatives who had been absent) notifying them of an extraordinary audit and possible surcharge over lost interest which by then amounted to over £270,000.\n\nWhile the council finances were sustained by loans amounting to £29m from the Public Works Loan Board, the resignation of Labour councillor Mike Bright on 21 June 1985 put those supporting continued defiance in the minority. Bright wrote a resignation letter revealing he saw no hope of success and expected to be surcharged: \"Martyrdom, however heroic, is usually the sign of a lost cause\". Ted Knight described Bright as a \"victim of [the state] machine\". After a formal notice of an extraordinary audit was published on 18 June, 32 councillors received notice on 27 June that the auditor deemed them liable to a surcharge of £126,947. The response of the councillors was to set up a 'Fighting Fund' in their defence, which was supported at its launch by the prominent actors Jill Gascoine, Frances de la Tour, Matthew Kelly, and Timothy West; the Labour group debated whether Mike Bright ought to be eligible for help from the fund.\n\nAt the next council meeting on 3 July, there was uproar after members of Vauxhall Constituency Labour Party unfurled a banner from the public gallery behind the Conservative group. When Conservative councillor Tony Green tore the banner down, Labour councillor Terry Rich rushed across to confront him and was only held back in a headlock by another councillor. The meeting was adjourned for 20 minutes. When it resumed, Janet Boston and Stuart Cakebread moved a legal rate which was passed by 32 to 31. The council was able to avoid cuts in planned spending with the aid of additional £5.5m housing subsidy from the Government and £6m from the Greater London Council's 'stress boroughs' scheme, the Lambeth Fighting Fund therefore claimed the campaign had been a success \"in financial terms\".\n\nAlthough Lambeth was the last council to set a rate for the year, many aspects of the ratecapping fight were not settled.\n\nOn 9 September 1985 the district auditors for Lambeth and Liverpool gave notice to 81 councillors (49 from Liverpool, 32 from Lambeth) that the delay in fixing the rates was wilful misconduct and so they were required to repay the costs as a surcharge: £106,103 in Liverpool, £126,947 in Lambeth. In both cases the amount per councillor was over £2,000 and therefore they were also disqualified. The district auditor found that Lambeth Borough Council had been embarked, since at least September 1984, on a political campaign against the Rates Act 1984 and the Government. Since its failure to make a rate was a political lever in that battle, the failure was wilful misconduct and therefore the councillors responsible were liable for the surcharge to make good the cost of the council's actions. The surcharged councillors from both Lambeth and Liverpool appealed to the High Court against the surcharges; when the case opened on 14 January 1986, counsel for the Lambeth councillors, Lionel Read QC, argued that the cost of delaying setting a rate was a legitimate expense in an attempt to secure more money from the Government which might have succeeded. He also argued that the loss of interest was not irrecoverable.\n\nThe Lambeth Fighting Fund had raised £74,000 by the opening of the High Court case, of which £69,000 had already been spent. The council had also spent £31,050 on publicity for what it termed \"Lambeth Rates Democracy\", spending which was criticised by the Conservative group. The High Court delivered its judgment on 6 March 1986, finding heavily against the councils. Lord Justice Glidewell described the stance of the councillors as \"mere political posturing\"; Mr Justice Caulfield described the evidence of wilful misconduct as \"crushing\" and the councillors' stance as having \"reached a pinnacle of political perversity\".\n\nThe judgment came just before full council elections were due in Lambeth, which had elections for every seat once every four years. If the councillors appealed and lost, they would be disqualified in the middle of the term, endangering Labour control of the council. The Lambeth Labour group decided (with seven dissenting) that it was better not to appeal, accept the disqualifications and select replacement candidates for the impending elections. After holding a special meeting to transfer running of the council up to the election to a special committee consisting of three Labour councillors who had not been surcharged (Janet Boston, and two had been elected in byelections after the rate was set), the councillors were disqualified on 30 March. The Transport and General Workers' Union ended financial support for the Liverpool and Lambeth councillors at the beginning of April, having spent £107,000 up to then. At the end of July 1986, the surcharged Lambeth councillors were given 21 months to pay off the surcharges; they were to pay £5,000 per month between them.\n\nLiverpool had elections three years out of four, with one third of councillors elected in each election. The Liverpool councillors did appeal – bringing in the argument that the extraordinary audit had not notified the councillors of their right for an oral hearing to put their case before making a finding of wilful misconduct. The Court of Appeal agreed that an oral hearing ought to have been allowed, but that the subsequent High Court hearing had cured that deficiency. The councillors then appealed to the House of Lords which unanimously rejected the appeal on 12 March 1987, ruling that the auditor's procedure was fair and not prejudiced against the council. The total surcharge to be paid by 47 current and former councillors (two had died in the meantime) amounted to £333,000.\n\nJust as the Lambeth councillors' five-year disqualification was ending, they were sent further letters inviting them to attend a hearing at Lambeth Town Hall on 3 April 1991 which was to look at the final year's accounts for 1985–86. The auditor was looking into whether the council's final outturn, which showed an additional loss of interest amounting to £212,000 over and above the amount surcharged in 1986, should be the subject of a new surcharge. Former council leader Ted Knight described it as a \"witch hunt\", asserting that it had been a political decision by the Government to suspend the councillors from office for a further five years and that it amounted to being tried twice for the same offence. No further surcharge was levied.\n\nLiverpool's adoption of a deficit budget for 1985/86 meant that the council quickly ran short of money. By September it was apparent that without a new source of funds, the council would be insolvent in December; as an employer it was therefore obliged to issue 90-day redundancy notices to its entire workforce. After this decision was announced on 6 September, the council's joint shop stewards called for an indefinite strike, and also occupied council buildings and prevented the council from holding a meeting to formally vote to issue the redundancy notices. The national leaderships of the trade unions attempted to restrain their local branches from going ahead with the strike, and when NALGO members voted against the strike by 7,284 to 8,152, it was called off.\n\nThe redundancy notices were issued on 27 September, together with a letter from the council's leader and deputy leader (John Hamilton and Derek Hatton) explaining that there was no intention to make any employee redundant but that the notices were a legal requirement. With time running out, the council had to hire taxis to distribute the notices. At the Labour Party conference the following week, David Blunkett agreed with Hatton that the GLC's Director-General Maurice Stonefrost could offer advice to Liverpool. Stonefrost suggested increasing rates by 15%, and cutting the housing programme. The council's budget problems for the 1985–86 financial year were only solved when the council removed £23m from its capital budget to fund revenue spending, and borrowed £30m from Swiss banks to replenish the capital fund. The council also transferred £3m in loans which it had given to other Labour councils and found £3m of budget savings. The council's Finance Committee approved this plan on 26 November 1985.\n\nThe district auditors operated under the control of the Audit Commission, which was a body established by (although operationally independent of) central government. Given the highly politicised fight, there was speculation that the Government was encouraging the Commission. Looking back on the history, Martin Loughlin noted that the Government did not appear to be formally directing the Commission, but that there was probably extensive consultation. The Commissioners had on 6 June 1985 directed the extraordinary audits of Lambeth and Liverpool, although by that time the district auditors were already planning to take this course. The auditors calculated the loss to the council as being the amount lost from interest payments on the amount paid by the Department of Health and Social Services and the Treasury Valuer which were unable to be paid until a rate was set; Martin Loughlin notes that this interest had instead accrued to the Government and therefore no money was lost to the public purse.\n\nGiven that other councils went into the new financial year having deliberately set no rate, and seven had incurred financial loss through their delay, Audit Commissioners considered whether to subject them to the same audits as had been ordered on Lambeth and Liverpool. As the formal notice of surcharges were being sent to the Lambeth and Liverpool councillors in autumn 1985, it was not clear to the Commissioners whether there was a significant distinction between them and the councils which had backed down earlier. At regular meetings of the Commission, deputy controller Cliff Nicholson had to give an update; his regular answer was that auditors were awaiting information from the councils before they could proceed. There were several reasons to delay action: the Lambeth and Liverpool appeals were proceeding, ratepayers were separately objecting to the accounts, and new auditors in Islington and Hackney were being challenged by the councils. The Commission also needed legal advice whether to proceed against all seven councils together, or one at a time.\n\nA Conservative member of the Commission, Ian Coutts, became concerned at the prolonged delay. The 2008 history of the Audit Commission, \"Follow the Money\", notes that the controller and deputy controller had decided before the end of 1985 that having acted on Lambeth and Liverpool, it would be better to take no action on the others, and then sought reasons to justify this lack of action. One of the reasons for this stance was concern that Lambeth and Liverpool appeals might be successful; another was that no council sought to follow the same strategy in the next financial year. Writing a decade earlier, Martin Loughlin also believed that having made an example of Lambeth and Liverpool, the most confrontational councils, the Audit Commission had no need to pursue the others.\n\nAfter the High Court ruled in favour of the auditor on Liverpool and Lambeth, the Commission obtained legal advice from Robert Alexander QC who agreed that taking on other councils would be useless. David Blunkett agreed in an interview in \"New Society\" in March 1986 that pursuing other councils would look \"highly political\" and would negate what the Commission had achieved in auditing Lambeth and Liverpool. Although the district auditor for Sheffield prepared two papers in March 1987, one justifying the issue of a certificate of wilful misconduct and the other not, and obtained a legal opinion advising him to submit the first, he decided to take no action; no other auditor sought to pursue losses due to late setting of rates.\n\nThe Government quickly moved to cut off the chances for a repeat of the tactic of setting no rate, by introducing legislation which set a deadline for approving a budget. Professor Malcolm Grant, a leading local government academic, regarded it as remarkable that they had neglected to block this gap in the Rates Act 1984. The Local Government Act 1986, which in section 1 required councils to set a rate by 1 April each year, received Royal Assent on 26 March 1986.\n\nThis Act was followed by the Local Government Act 1988, which gave auditors power to issue a 'prohibition order' to negate any decision by a local council which would lead to a breach in the law, and also gave auditors the power to initiate a judicial review of any decision or failure to act which might have an effect on the council's accounts. The Audit Commission welcomed the second power in particular as it was broadly worded. The Local Government and Housing Act 1989 then required local authorities to designate one of their officers as a \"Monitoring Officer\" who would have the duty of alerting the Director of Finance to any legally questionable decision.\n\nStewart Lansley, writing in the Labour Party journal \"New Socialist\" in July 1985, argued that the ratecapping fight had very quickly turned from councils fighting the Government into a fight within the Labour Party. He pointed out that three leaders of Labour councils had resigned when budgets were passed, and council meetings had seen angry scenes of abuse, recrimination and intimidation; dissenting councillors in Southwark had been sent white feathers. Martin Loughlin, author of \"Legality and Locality\", ascribed the reason for the failure of the ratecapping challenge to the councils not being as united as they appeared; some had viewed it as a direct confrontation of the Government, while the majority saw an opportunity to exploit an ambiguity in the law. Only a very small number of councils could get a majority for a blatantly unlawful policy. Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock told the party's Local Government committee on 10 March 1986 that there was no possibility of a Labour government extending a retrospective indemnity from surcharges.\n\nThe Labour Party conference was held in the week that Liverpool's council employees received their redundancy notices. On the morning that Labour Party leader Neil Kinnock was due to make his speech, an article by the Anglican and Roman Catholic Bishops of Liverpool David Sheppard and Derek Worlock denounced the Militant leadership and council's \"policy of confrontation\". Kinnock's speech denounced \"the grotesque chaos of a Labour council — \"a Labour council\" — hiring taxis to scuttle round a city, handing out redundancy notices to its own workers\". In the aftermath of the speech, the Labour Party National Executive Committee suspended the Liverpool district Labour Party and ordered an investigation, which resulted eventually in the expulsion of all Militant tendency members from the Labour Party.\n\nWith the use of 'creative accounting' techniques by councils to conceal spending while remaining within the law, ratecapping did not immediately lead to the reductions in local government spending for which the Government was hoping. One observer saw no evidence of redundancies through capping before 1987. The Audit Commission kept a close eye on the techniques of creative accounting, under pressure from the Department of the Environment which criticised the Commission's \"apparent inability to date to make any impact\" on it. Council practices grew more sophisticated as the number of Public Interest Reports issued by district auditors increased. However it was only legislative changes which succeeded in stopping the unorthodox financial practices. The Local Government Act 1985 introduced automatic precept limitation for the new authorities created by it in the metropolitan counties.\n\nJust as the fight between local authorities and the Government over rate-capping was starting in March 1985, the Government was deciding whether to proceed with a proposal for a new form of tax for local government replace to replace Rates, which would take the form of a flat rate charge for each individual adult resident living within the area of the local council. According to one published history of this reform, the fight and the acrimony over rate-capping helped to encourage the Government and the Prime Minister in particular to support this change. This proposal was eventually enacted as the Community Charge. For the 1986–87 financial year, twelve local authorities were rate-capped. Ten of them had been rate-capped the previous year (Basildon, Camden, Greenwich, Hackney, Haringey, Islington, Lambeth, Lewisham, Southwark and Thamesdown); two were newly selected, Liverpool and Newcastle upon Tyne. The following year, 1987–88, saw 20 authorities rate-capped and in 1988–89 there were 17.\n\nIn June 1990, after a favourable opinion from the Government's law officers, it was decided to use the power to issue a general limitation on local government budgets in all authorities which had been enacted in the Rates Act 1984 but had remained unused until then. This decision removed most local government financial autonomy. This 'universal capping' continued from the 1991–92 financial year until 1998–99; when it was ended the Secretary of State took reserve powers under the Local Government Act 1999 to regulate increases in the Council Tax (which had replaced the Community Charge). The Secretary of State was also allowed to require reduction in individual local authorities' budgets.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14830160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14830160", "title": "Red Sea Dam", "text": "Red Sea Dam\n\nThe Red Sea dam is a speculative macro-engineering proposal put forward in 2007 by a group of scientists and engineers. Although the authors' intentions are to explore \"the ethical and environmental dilemmas and some of the political implications of macro-engineering\", the proposal has attracted both criticism and ridicule.\n\nThe idea is to dam the Red Sea at its southern end where the Bab-al-Mandab Strait is only wide. Natural evaporation would rapidly lower the level of the enclosed Red Sea. Water rushing back into the sea would then drive turbines to generate electricity. It is claimed that up to of electrical power could be generated, dwarfing all other power schemes worldwide.\n\nThe proposal's authors point out that \"Macro-engineering projects of this size cause a massive destruction of existing ecologies\", a point emphasized by critics who note the damage caused by current, far smaller schemes.\n\nThe authors also note the benefits of the project. Besides helping to satisfy the region's growing energy needs, there are environmental benefits to the scheme: \"On the positive side of the environmental scale, however, are the big reductions of greenhouse gas emissions, and the reduced pace of fossil hydrocarbon resource exhaustion\".\n\nInfluential scientists such as Peter Bosshard, policy director of International Rivers in California, have condemned the scheme as ludicrous.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1150036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1150036", "title": "Regency Acts", "text": "Regency Acts\n\nThe Regency Acts are Acts of the Parliament of the United Kingdom passed at various times, to provide a regent in the event of the reigning monarch being incapacitated or a minor (under the age of 18). Prior to 1937, Regency Acts were passed only when necessary to deal with a specific situation. In 1937, the Regency Act 1937 made general provision for a regent, and established the office of Counsellor of State, several of whom would act on the monarch's behalf when the monarch was temporarily absent from the realm. This Act forms the main law relating to regency in the United Kingdom today.\n\nAn example of a pre-1937 Regency Act was the Act of 1811 which allowed George, Prince of Wales to act as regent while his father, King George III, was incapacitated. George ruled as the Prince Regent until his father's death, when he ascended the throne as King George IV.\n\nPrior to 1937, there was no permanent, general provision in British law for a regent to be appointed if the British monarch were incapacitated or absent from the country. Nor was there a general provision for a regent to rule on behalf of an heir apparent or heir presumptive who succeeded to the throne as a minor. Before the Glorious Revolution, it was up to the sovereign to decide who would be regent in any event, although this decision was often implemented by legislation. For example, section XI of the Treason Act 1554 made King Philip, husband and co-ruler of Queen Mary I, regent in the event that Mary died and her heir was male and under 18, or an unmarried female under 15.\n\nBy the Act of Settlement 1701, Parliament passed the line of succession to Electress Sophia of Hanover; this decision was confirmed and extended to all of Great Britain by the Acts of Union 1707. With the doctrine of Parliamentary supremacy firmly established in British law, it became possible for Parliament to pass legislation to determine who would act as regent during the absence, incapacity or minority of the ruling monarch. Since then several Regency Acts have been passed.\n\nWith the passage of the Act of Settlement 1701 establishing the Protestant Succession and making Sophia of Hanover heiress to the throne, it became likely that upon Anne's death the country would be without a monarch-in-residence. The Regency Act 1705 was passed \"to put it [the succession] in such a method as was not to be resisted but by open force of arms and a public declaration for the Pretender\". The Act required privy counsellors and other officers, in the event of Anne's death, to proclaim as her successor the next Protestant in the line of succession to the throne, and made it high treason to fail to do so. If the next Protestant successor was abroad at the death of Anne, seven great Officers of State named in the Act (and others whom the heir-apparent thought fit to appoint), called \"Lords Justices,\" would form a regency. The heir-apparent would name these others through a secret instrument which would be sent to England in three copies and delivered to the Hanoverian Resident, the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Lord Chancellor. The Lords Justices were to have the power to give royal assent to bills, except that they would be guilty of treason if they amended the Act of Uniformity 1662.\n\nTwo years later, after the union of Scotland and England, the new Parliament of Great Britain passed the Succession to the Crown Act 1707, reaffirming the above procedure and modifying it slightly. Under the act, if the monarch died while the heir to the throne was overseas, the government would be run until the new monarch returned by between seven and fourteen \"Lords Justices.\" Seven of the Lords Justices were named in the Act, and the next monarch could appoint seven more, who would be named in writing, three copies of which were to be sent to the Privy Council in England. The Act made it treason for any unauthorised person to open these, or to neglect to deliver them to the Privy Council. The Lords Justices were to have the power to give royal assent to bills, except that they would be guilty of treason if they amended the Act of Uniformity 1662 or the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707.\n\nUpon Queen Anne's death in 1714, George I, the new king, was in his home realm of Hanover. In accordance with the Succession to the Crown Act, Thomas Parker, Lord Chief Justice, became head of the regency. He served for a little over a month.\n\nThe second Act passed by the Parliament of Great Britain to deal exclusively with a regency was in 1728, the \"Regency During the King's Absence Act 1728\" (2 Geo. 2 c. 27). The Act specified that Queen Caroline would act as regent in the absence of her husband King George II rather than the Prince of Wales, whom he despised. The Act was necessary because George II was also Elector of Hanover and was returning to his homeland for a visit.\n\nIn 1751, Frederick, Prince of Wales, the eldest son and heir apparent of King George II, died. This left Frederick's eldest son, Prince George, as the new heir apparent. But George was only 12 at the time of his father's death. If the King were to die before Prince George turned 18, the throne would pass to a minor.\n\nConsequently, Parliament made a provision for a regent by passing the Minority of Successor to Crown Act 1751 (24 Geo. 2 c. 24). This Act provided that George's mother, Augusta, Dowager Princess of Wales, would act as regent. The Act also specified that a \"Council of Regency\" be put in place to rule alongside Princess Augusta. The Council of Regency was to act as a brake on the regent's power; some acts of the royal prerogative, such as declarations of war or the signing of peace treaties, would require a majority vote of the council. The provisions of this act actually never came into force, since Prince George had already come of age at the time of the death of his grandfather.\n\nIn 1760, King George III ascended the throne, with his brother Prince Edward, Duke of York and Albany, as heir presumptive. However, the new King soon married and had several children. By 1765, the King had three infant children in the order of succession. Parliament again passed a Regency Act to provide for a regent in the event of the King's death.\n\nThe Minority of Heir to the Crown Act 1765 (5 Geo. 3 c. 27) provided that either the King's wife, Queen Charlotte, or his mother, Augusta, Dowager Princess of Wales, would act as regent. This Act also required the formation of a Council of Regency. As with the previous act, the provision of this act actually never came into force, since the eldest son of George III was already 57 when his father died.\n\nThe Regency Bill of 1789 was a proposed Act of Parliament to provide that King George III's eldest son George, Prince of Wales, would act as regent due to the King's incapacity through mental illness. With no legislation already in place, there was no legal basis for providing a regent, and the King was in no fit state to give Royal Assent to the Act. Parliament decided to have the Lord Chancellor (Lord Thurlow) approve the bill by fixing the Great Seal of the Realm to give Royal Assent. However, the King recovered in time before the bill could be passed. Prince Frederick, Duke of York and Albany, and others thought the Act illegal; but following his recovery, the King declared that the government had acted correctly.\n\nThe King's continuing mental problems throughout the rest of his life confirmed the need for a suitable Regency Act to be in place. However, the King was hostile to the passing of such an Act while he was of sound mind.\n\nIn late 1810, King George III was once again overcome by mental illness, following the death of his youngest daughter, Princess Amelia. Parliament agreed to follow the precedent of 1789: without the King's consent, the Lord Chancellor affixed the Great Seal of the Realm to letters patent naming Lords Commissioners. Such letters patent were irregular, because they did not bear the Royal Sign Manual, and only Letters Patent signed by the Sovereign himself can provide for the appointment of Lords Commissioners or for the granting of Royal Assent. However, because the King was already incapacitated \"de facto\", resolutions by both Houses of Parliament approved the action, directing the Lord Chancellor to prepare the Letters Patent and to affix the Great Seal to them even without the signature of the monarch. The Lords Commissioners thus appointed, in the name of the King, signified the granting of the Royal Assent to a bill which became the Care of King During his Illness, etc. Act 1811 (51 Geo. 3 c. 1). Under this Act, the King was suspended from the personal discharge of the royal functions, and George, Prince of Wales discharged those functions in the name and on behalf of the King from 1811 until 1820, when the King died and the Prince of Wales succeeded to the throne. Parliament restricted some of the powers of the Prince Regent (as the Prince of Wales became known). The constraints expired one year after the passage of the Act. The 1811–1820 period is known as the Regency era.\n\nThe importance of this Regency Act was that it did not require a Council of Regency, as required by previous legislation. One reason for this was that the Prince Regent was heir apparent to the throne in any case, and would assume full powers upon his father's death.\n\nIn 1830 the throne passed to George IV's younger brother (George III's third-eldest son), King William IV. But William IV had no legitimate children, and given the age of his wife, Queen Adelaide, he was unlikely to have any in the future. The heir presumptive to the throne was his niece, Princess Alexandrina Victoria of Kent, who was only eleven.\n\nAs Victoria's father was dead, and Parliament mistrusted the younger sons of George III, the Act (1 Will. 4 c. 2) placed any potential regency caused by the King's death before Victoria had reached 18, in her mother, the Duchess of Kent. However, if Queen Adelaide gave birth to a child, that child was to become king or queen instead of Victoria, and Adelaide would become regent. If such a birth occurred after the King's death, his child was to immediately succeed Victoria, in Victoria's lifetime, as king or queen. The Act prohibited either monarch from marrying during the regency without the Regent's consent, and made it high treason to marry the monarch without such consent, or to assist in or be concerned in the marriage. The Act also prohibited the regent from giving royal assent to a bill to change the line of succession to the throne, or to repeal or alter the Act of Uniformity 1662 or the Scottish Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707.\n\nHowever, since Victoria became queen aged 18, and Queen Adelaide had no more children, a regency was unnecessary and the Act never came into force.\n\nIn 1837 Princess Victoria of Kent succeeded her uncle to become Queen Victoria. She became monarch aged 18, while she was still unmarried and without children. The next in the line of succession was her uncle, the 66-year-old Ernest Augustus, Duke of Cumberland, who succeeded King William IV in the Kingdom of Hanover as Salic Law prevented Victoria becoming Queen of Hanover. Thus Ernest August departed the United Kingdom to take up his role in Hanover. This meant that until the Queen married and had legitimate children, the heir presumptive to the throne and his children would reside abroad. Although they would almost certainly return to the United Kingdom in the event of Victoria dying without an heir, it would take some weeks for this to happen using nineteenth century transport.\n\nTo provide for the continuation of government in such an instance, Parliament passed the Lords Justices Act 1837 (7 Will. 4. & 1 Vict. c. 72, long title: \"An Act to provide for the Appointment of Lords Justices in the Case of the next Successor to the Crown being out of the Realm at the Time of the Demise of Her Majesty\"). This Act did not provide for a specific regent to be appointed, as it was expected that the new monarch would arrive in the country within a reasonable time. Thus the Act provided only for Lords Justices, including such people as the Archbishop of Canterbury and the Lord Chief Justice, to take up some of the monarch's duties. Unlike the powers granted to prospective regents in previous legislation, the powers of the Lords Justice were more limited; for example, they could not dissolve Parliament or create peerages.\n\nBy 1840, Queen Victoria had married her cousin, HSH Prince Albert of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha and soon gave birth to The Princess Victoria. It was expected that the Queen would have many other children; however, they would be in minority for at least the next 18 years, and Parliament again would have to provide for a regent in the event of Victoria's death. The previous Lords Justices Act 1837 would not apply to the Queen's children, as they resided in the UK. Parliament therefore passed the Regency Act 1840 (3 & 4 Vict. c. 52) which provided for Prince Albert to rule as regent until the eldest child reached the age of 18. The Act did not require a Regency Council to operate alongside Prince Albert, potentially giving him more power than earlier proposed regents. The Act was fairly controversial at the time, as the British people were suspicious of Prince Albert and he was generally unpopular in Parliament. However Victoria lived until 1901 and, in any case, Albert predeceased her, so he did not become regent.\n\nThe Act would have prohibited the monarch from marrying during the regency without written consent from the Regent and both houses of Parliament, and made it high treason to marry the monarch without such consent, or to assist in or be concerned in the marriage. The Act also prohibited the regent from giving royal assent to a bill to change the line of succession to the throne, or a bill to repeal or alter the Act of Uniformity 1662 or the Scottish Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707.\n\nIn 1910 Queen Victoria's grandson, King George V, succeeded to the throne. However, his children were all under the age of 18. Therefore, Parliament passed a new Regency Act (10 Edw. 7 & 1 Geo. 5 c. 26) in 1910, that named the King's consort, Queen Mary, as regent. No regency council was provided for, following the Regency Act 1840. Once again, the provisions of this Act never came into operation, as the Prince of Wales was well over 18 by the time George V died.\n\nThe Acts currently in force governing the cases in which a Regency shall come into existence and when a Regency shall cease, the determination of who shall be Regent and the powers of such Regent are the Regency Act 1937, the Regency Act 1943, and the Regency Act 1953, jointly referred to as the \"Regency Acts 1937 to 1953\".\n\nIn 1936, George VI (George V's second son) had become King, with his elder daughter, Princess Elizabeth, as heir presumptive. However, Elizabeth was under the age of 18, leading to the need for a new Regency Act.\n\nRather than pass a specific Regency Act relating to the death or incapacity of George VI only, Parliament passed the Regency Act 1937 (1 Edw. 8 & 1 Geo. 6 c. 16), which provided for the incapacity or minority of all future monarchs. It also repealed the Lords Justices Act 1837, and established in statute the office of Counsellor of State, to be appointed during the monarch's absence abroad, or temporary illness not amounting to complete incapacity.\n\nThe Act required that the regent should be the next person in the line of succession who was:\n\nThe Counsellors of State were to consist of:\n\nThus, at the time of the passing of the Act, Prince Henry, Duke of Gloucester would have become Regent in the event that King George VI died while The Princess Elizabeth was still a minor. The current prospective regent under the Act would be Charles, Prince of Wales.\n\nSection 4 of the Act prohibits the regent from giving royal assent to a bill to change the line of succession to the British throne or to repeal or alter the Scottish Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Act 1707.\n\nThis Act (6 & 7 Geo. 6 c. 42) modified the Regency Act 1937 so that counsellors of state who were absent during the Sovereign's absence would not be listed among the appointments. It also declared that the heir-apparent or presumptive to the throne (first in the line of succession) only had to be 18 to be a counsellor.\n\nMost of the provisions of the Regency Act 1953 (2 & 3 Eliz. 2 c. 1) ceased to be applicable as children came of age. The sole provision of the 1953 Act that is still relevant is section 2, which removed the perceived anomaly that a person aged 18 could become a counsellor of state and could, upon accession to the throne, personally discharge the royal functions, but could not act as a regent until 21.\n\nIn 1952 King George VI died and was succeeded by his daughter, Queen Elizabeth II. With her eldest son and heir apparent, Prince Charles, under the age of 18, the Regency Act 1937 would provide for the next person over the age of 21 in the line of succession, the Queen's sister Princess Margaret, to act as regent. However, although a regency was already provided for, Parliament made a new law creating a provision specific to the scenario of the succession to the throne of a son or daughter of Queen Elizabeth II and her husband, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, while still under the age of 18 years. That provision, which ceased to have any relevance in law once all children of Elizabeth and Philip reached adulthood, was to the effect that Prince Philip, if living, would act as regent in case of an underage succession to the Crown by one of the children born of his marriage to Queen Elizabeth II. Furthermore, if a regency was necessary during Elizabeth II's reign, the Duke of Edinburgh would act as regent if the Queen had no eligible children or grandchildren.\n\nThe Act also allowed the Queen's mother, Queen Elizabeth the Queen Mother, to become a Counsellor of State again, a position she had lost on the death of her husband King George VI.\n\nAccording to the Regency Acts 1937 to 1953, presently in force, there is provision for the establishment of a regency either on account of the minority of the monarch or of the absolute incapacity of the Sovereign to discharge the Royal Functions.\n\nAccording to the Regency Acts in force, if the monarch is under the age of 18 years when he or she succeeds to the Throne, a regency is automatically established, and, until the monarch attains the age of 18 years, the royal functions are discharged by the regent in the name and on behalf of the monarch.\n\nIn that case, any oaths or declarations required by statute to be taken by the Sovereign on or after succeeding to the Crown are postponed until the sovereign's personal assumption of the royal functions, and for the purpose of all such enactments regarding oaths and declarations that the new monarch must make upon accession \"the date on which the Sovereign attains the age of eighteen years shall be deemed to be the date of His Accession\".\n\nUnlike any of the preceding Regency Acts, the Regency Act 1937 (which is still in force) established in law a procedure for determining the incapacity of the Sovereign due to infirmity of mind or body or due to the monarch's unavailability for another definite cause.\n\nWhen a declaration of incapacity is made in accordance with the procedure set out in the Regency Act 1937 a Regency is established and the royal functions are transferred from the Sovereign to a Regent, who discharges them in the name and on behalf of the monarch until a declaration is made in accordance with the said Act to the effect that the monarch's incapacity has ceased.\n\nAccording to section 2 of the Regency Act 1937, the people who can make a declaration of incapacity (or a declaration that the incapacity has ended) are the consort of the Sovereign, the Lord Chancellor, the Speaker of the House of Commons, the Lord Chief Justice of England and the Master of the Rolls. these positions were held by, respectively, Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh, David Gauke, John Bercow, Lord Burnett of Maldon, and Sir Terrence Etherton.\n\nAny declaration of incapacity or of cessation of incapacity needs to be signed by three or more of them. Declarations based on the monarch's unavailability for a definite cause need to be supported by evidence, and declarations attesting the Sovereign's incapacity by reason of infirmity of mind or body need to be supported by evidence including evidence provided by physicians.\n\nA declaration of incapacity or of cessation of incapacity needs to be made to the Privy Council and communicated to the governments of the Dominions.\n\nUnder the Regency Act 1937, a declaration of incapacity can also be made with respect to the regent. Thus, if the person serving as regent becomes incapable of discharging the royal functions, either on account of an infirmity of mind or body, or because the regent has become, for a definite cause, unavailable to perform the said functions, the same group of people who can make a declaration of incapacity regarding the sovereign (the wife or husband of the monarch, the Lord Chancellor, the Speaker of the House of Commons, the Lord Chief Justice of England and the Master of the Rolls) are empowered to make a declaration of incapacity regarding the regent.\n\nThe requirements for that declaration of incapacity are the same ones that are valid with regard to a declaration affecting the sovereign: the incapacity of the regent must be attested by evidence; in the case of infirmity that evidence shall include evidence provided by physicians; the declaration needs to be signed by at least three of the people empowered by law; and it needs to be lodged with the Privy Council.\n\nUnder section 3, subsection 5, of the Regency Act 1937, when the regent is the object of a declaration of incapacity, he or she ceases to be the regent, as if he or she were dead, and the person next in line capable of discharging the regency becomes regent in his or her place.\n\nWhen a regent is removed from office by a declaration of incapacity and subsequently the incapacity ceases to exist, the regent can be restored to office by means of a declaration of cessation of incapacity. In that case upon the declaration of cessation of incapacity, a change of regent takes place, with the person who has a lower place in the order of succession ceasing to be the regent, and in his or her stead the person with a higher position in the order of succession, who had only ceased to be regent due to the declaration of incapacity, resuming the office of regent. The requirements for declaration of cessation of incapacity regarding the regent are the same ones that are valid for a declaration of cessation of incapacity regarding the sovereign.\n\nWhenever a regency is established, either on account of incapacity of the sovereign (duly declared in accordance with the procedure prescribed in statute), or on account of the minority of the Sovereign, and also when there is a change of regent, the new \"Regent shall, before he acts in or enters upon his office\" take the oaths required by the Regency Act, 1937; accordingly, a new regent only enters into the execution of his office by taking the oaths, and therefore cannot discharge any of the royal functions before taking them.\n\nThe oaths required to be taken by a new Regent upon his assumption of office are as follows:\n\n\"I swear that I will be faithful and bear true allegiance to [here insert the name of the Sovereign] his heirs and successors according to law. So help me God\".\n\n\"I swear that I will truly and faithfully execute the office of Regent, and that I will govern according to law, and will, in all things, to the utmost of my power and ability, consult and maintain the safety, honour, and dignity of [here insert the name of the Sovereign] and the welfare of his people. So help me God\".\n\n\"I swear that I will inviolably maintain and preserve in England and in Scotland the Settlement of the true Protestant religion as established by law in England and as established in Scotland by the laws made in Scotland in prosecution of the Claim of Right, and particularly by an Act intituled “An Act for Securing the Protestant Religion and Presbyterian Church Government” and by the Acts passed in the Parliament of both Kingdoms for Union of the two Kingdoms, together with the Government, Worship, Discipline, Rights, and Privileges of the Church of Scotland. So help me God\".\n\nThe said oaths need to be taken and subscribed by the new Regent before the Privy Council, and the Regency Act, 1937 specifies that \"the Privy Council are empowered and required to administer those oaths and to enter them in the Council Books\".\n\nUnlike the situations of minor infirmity or of travel abroad that allow for the possible delegation of the royal functions by the monarch to counsellors of state (as authorised by section 6 of the Regency Act 1937), the establishment of a regency carries with it the notion that the sovereign is not fit and able to administer the affairs of his own person, so that he needs a legal guardian. The guardianship of the monarch, however, is not governed by the same ordinary body of laws that regulate the appointment of legal guardians to people in general. Instead of the legal guardian of the Sovereign being appointed by a court based on the recommendations of the social services, the guardianship of the monarch is provided for directly by Regency Act 1937, presently in force.\n\nBecause the sovereign in his or her private capacity is not subject to the jurisdiction of the courts, the institution of a regency remains the sole method of placing the person of the sovereign under legal guardianship. And, according to the provisions of the Regency Acts in force, the creation of a regency to discharge the royal functions and the legal guardianship of the monarch go hand in hand: the monarch is only subject to legal guardianship when there is a regency, and always when there is a regency the monarch is placed under legal guardianship.\n\nThe legal guardianship of the person of the monarch (with the corresponding power to administer the private property of the sovereign) does not necessarily rest with the regent. However, if the none of the prospective guardians provided for in the statute exist, then, also according to the statute, the regent becomes the guardian of the sovereign. Accordingly, during a regency, the regent is the person invested with the royal authority, that discharges the royal functions on behalf of the monarch. The guardian, on the other hand, has the legal custody of the sovereign (who is either a minor or an incapacitated person) and the duty to care for the monarch's personal well being. The two roles may or may not be combined.\n\nAccording to section 5 of the Regency Act 1937, if the monarch is under the age of eighteen years and unmarried, then his or her mother, if living, shall have the guardianship of the monarch's person. On the other hand, if the sovereign is married, but is still under the age of eighteen years, or if the sovereign is a married adult, but has been declared incapable for the time being of performing the royal functions, then the wife or husband of the sovereign, if of full age, shall have the guardianship of the person of the monarch. In all other cases except the two situations described above (that is, if the sovereign is unmarried and under the age of eighteen years, but his mother is no longer living; or if the sovereign is married, but the wife or husband is not of full age; or if the sovereign has been declared incapable of performing the royal functions, but does not have a wife or husband), then the regent shall be the legal guardian of the monarch and shall have custody of his or her person, and the property of the sovereign, except any private property which in accordance with the terms of any trust affecting it is to be administered by some other person, shall be administered by the regent.\n\n, under the provisions of the Regency Acts in force, Prince Charles, Prince of Wales, would act as regent in the event of the incapacity of his mother, Queen Elizabeth II. The next person in the line of succession, the Prince of Wales' elder son Prince William, Duke of Cambridge, would also be able to succeed without necessitating a regency and would be eligible to be regent for his grandmother or his father.\n\n, the first person under the age of 18 in the line of succession to the throne is William's son Prince George of Cambridge, who is third in line to the throne after his grandfather and father. If the prince were to succeed to the throne before his 18th birthday on 22 July 2031, his uncle, Prince Harry, Duke of Sussex (the Prince of Wales' younger son), would serve as regent, as George's younger siblings Charlotte and Louis (currently fourth and fifth in line, respectively) would also be minors. In the event that Prince Harry would be unable to serve as regent, the next in line would be his uncle (Prince George's grand-uncle) Prince Andrew, Duke of York, followed by the Duke of York's elder daughter Princess Beatrice of York.\n\nCurrently, if Elizabeth II were to be declared incapable of discharging the royal functions, the legal guardianship of the incapacitated monarch would be vested in her husband Prince Philip, Duke of Edinburgh. If, however, the Duke of Edinburgh were to predecease his wife or be otherwise unable to carry out the duties of legal guardian, the guardianship of the Sovereign would then be vested in the sitting Regent.\n\nPrince George of Cambridge, should he ascend to the throne prior to his 18th birthday, is the first person in the present line of succession that would require Regency and Legal Guardianship, until he was 18. According to the Regency Acts as currently in force, should this occur, his legal guardianship would be vested in his mother, Catherine, Duchess of Cambridge. If she were to be unable to carry out the duties of legal guardian, they would then revert to the sitting Regent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2095662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2095662", "title": "Renewed Caledonian Union", "text": "Renewed Caledonian Union\n\nThe Renewed Caledonian Union (, UC-R) is a political party in New Caledonia formed by dissidents from the Caledonian Union. It is a member of the National Union for Independence (UNI) coalition, which is in turn a member of the Kanak and Socialist National Liberation Front (FLNKS).\n\nIn the latest legislative election of May 10, 2009, it participated in the National Union for Independence (UNI) list in the Loyalty Islands which won 24.66% of the popular vote and 4 seats, one of which was a member of the UC-R.\n"}
{"id": "1210300", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1210300", "title": "Richard Nixon mask", "text": "Richard Nixon mask\n\nA Richard Nixon mask is a mask with the likeness of Richard Nixon. These were commercially available and quite popular in the waning days of the Nixon Administration. They are generally made out of vinyl by the Cesar mask company from France and are sold worldwide. The most famous Nixon mask was the big nose Cesar Nixon comical mask made by Cesar in the 1970s. Later other companies made similar versions made from latex rubber or similar flexible castable compounds.\n\nOne of the notable features of most Richard Nixon masks is the classically caricatured nose. Many of the different versions of the Nixon mask have a wide grinning smile as well.\n\nAlthough the masks were widely believed to be only a fad that would presumably die down as the public attention on Watergate waned (and once Nixon left office), the masks managed to outlive their presumed fad status by becoming popular during events such as Halloween and adult masquerade parties. The Richard Nixon mask remains popular today, worn both for humorous effect, and in protest marches and similar \"public displays of disaffection\". According to \"Harper's\" magazine's October 2002 \"Harper's Index,\" Nixon masks were the best-selling political mask for the previous five years for top U.S. costume wholesaler Morris Costumes.\n\nThe masks sparked a commercial demand for masks resembling other famous people, most notably Presidents of the United States. Masks of other presidents have often been most popular either in the term of the current president or immediately preceding term.\n\n"}
{"id": "36020941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36020941", "title": "Romanian military referendum, 1986", "text": "Romanian military referendum, 1986\n\nA referendum on the military was held in Romania on 23 November 1986. Voters were asked whether they approved of reducing the size of the army and cutting military spending by 5%. According to official results, the proposals were approved by 100% of voters, with not a single vote against and only 228 registered voters not voting.\n\nFollowing a proposal by President Nicolae Ceaușescu, on 23 October 1986 the National Assembly changed the constitution to allow for referendums, whilst the voting age was lowered to 14 years.\n"}
{"id": "376611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=376611", "title": "Shin Kanemaru", "text": "Shin Kanemaru\n\nShin Kanemaru (金丸 信 \"Kanemaru Shin\"), 17 September 1914 - 28 March 1996) was a Japanese politician who was a significant figure in the political arena of Japan from the 1970s to the early 1990s.\n\nKanemaru was born in Suwa village (now Minami-arupusu city), Yamanashi Prefecture on 17 September 1914. He was a member of the Liberal Democratic Party and member of the faction of Noboru Takeshita. In 1992, he was indicted in the Sagawa Kyubin corruption scandal. He was charged with evading taxes on payments he had received from construction companies that were seeking political influence. He resigned and was arrested on 13 March 1993 after authorities found at least $51 million in bearer bonds and hundreds of pounds of gold stored at his home.\n\nKanemaru died in Yamanashi on 28 March 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "12554855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12554855", "title": "Swiss passport", "text": "Swiss passport\n\nA Swiss passport is the passport issued to citizens of Switzerland to facilitate international travel. For travel within Europe, Swiss citizens can use an identity card with few exceptions.\n\nThe first Swiss passports were issued on 10 December 1915. The characteristic red Swiss passport was created in 1959. Until 1985 the Swiss passport included only the national languages of the time (French, German, and Italian) as well as English. Romansh was added in the later Pass 85 after it was declared the fourth Swiss national language following a referendum. The order of the languages was then changed to German, French, Italian, Romansh, and English.\n\nLater Swiss passports (Pass 03, 06, and 10) contain 40 pages (instead of the previous 32) and a data page. 36 pages are provided for foreign visas and official stamps. The first page contains the bearer signature, as well as field 11 \"Official observations\". The pages 2–3 contain translations of the field labels of the data page in 13 (Pass 03) and 26 (Pass 06 and Pass 10) languages, respectively. Each page has a unique color pattern, as well as an incomplete Swiss cross which registers with the matching incomplete cross on the reverse side when held to light. On pages 8–33, the incomplete Swiss cross contains the microprinted name of a canton and the year it joined the Swiss Confederation, with the canton's coat of arms and a famous landmark in the top outer corner.\n\nSince 15 February 2010, non-biometric passports (Pass 03, 06, and 85) are no longer issued. \n\nFrom 1 March 2010 and according to the Schengen Agreement, Swiss passports are all biometric. This is required for visa-free travel to the United States.\n\nThe Swiss passport includes the following fields on the polycarbonate data page \n\n\nThe bottom of the data page is the machine-readable zone.\n\nNames containing diacritics (ä, ö, ü, à, ç, é, è, etc; the letter ß is not normally used in Swiss German) are spelled with diacritics outside the machine-readable zone, but in the machine-readable zone, German umlauts (ä/ö/ü) are transcribed as ae/oe/ue (e.g. Müller becomes MUELLER) while other letters simply omit the diacritics (e.g. Jérôme becomes JEROME and François becomes FRANCOIS) according to ICAO conventions.\n\nThe transcription above is generally used for airplane tickets etc., but sometimes simple vowels are used (e.g. MULLER instead of MÜLLER or MUELLER). The three possible spelling variants of the same name (e.g. Müller / Mueller / Muller) on different documents can lead to confusion, and the use of two different spellings within the same document (as in the passport) may give people who are unfamiliar with the German orthography the impression that the document is a forgery.\n\nPage 1, in addition to the signature line, is the designated area for official endorsements (field 11, \"Official observations\").\n\nThe entire passport is written in the four official languages (German, French, Italian, and Romansch) as well as English, with the exception of page 40, containing use and care instructions only. Page 2 contains translations into 13 languages. In Pass 10, 13 additional languages were added in consideration of the 10 countries added to the EU in 2004 as well as Norwegian and Icelandic to cover the languages of the EFTA states. Consequently, the Swiss passport has 26 languages, exceeding the EU's own passports with 23 languages. Inside the back cover, the phrase \"This passport contains 40 numbered pages\" is written in the 26 languages.\n\nAvailable from 1 March 2010, Pass 10 contains biometric data: a photograph and fingerprints. Switzerland was required to implement this type of passport in order to participate in the Schengen Agreement. Pages 2–3 contain 26 translations. Pass 10 is practically the same as Pass 06 except for the chip with the biometric data. This passport was accepted in a popular referendum on 17 May 2009.\n\nPass 06 was issued from 2006. It contained biometric data in an RFID chip. This was a prototype of the newest Pass 10 but limited to a 5-year validity. On page 2 contains 13 translations. The older version, Pass 03, was still usable until the date of expiry, but because of the Schengen Agreement, had to be replaced with a biometric passport upon expiry.\n\nThe temporary passport is often called an \"emergency passport.\" Under to the Swiss law on identity documents, it may be issued only when there is no time to apply for a regular passport, or a regular valid passport could not be presented (if the regular passport was lost, destroyed, or stolen for example), or if a valid passport does not meet the necessary requirements for travel (for instance when the time of passport validity is not long enough to enter a foreign country, e.g., Russia and China require more than 6 months of validity).\n\nThe temporary passport is the same as Pass 03, lacking biometric data. The front cover of the temporary passport is clearly marked with a white band on the lower half of the cover to distinguish it from a regular passport. The temporary passport only has 16 pages. There is no polycarbonate data page, instead using a laminated security paper data page. The temporary passport complies with international security standards for these types of documents and is machine readable. \n\nThe temporary passport can be applied for abroad at any Swiss consulate or embassy, any domestic passport office, or at the Zürich, Basel, and Geneva airports.\n\nPass 03 was first issued on 1 January 2003, because its predecessor did not comply with current international standards. Pass 03 is also the first Swiss passport equipped with a machine-readable, polycarbonate data page. It is identical to Pass 06, except for the fact that it contains no biometric data.\n\nPass 85 was first introduced on 1 April 1985. Its data page was not machine readable. The medium-red cover is decorated with a large Swiss cross and the words \"Swiss Passport\" vertically in 5 languages. An earlier version of Pass 85 only had 4 languages, until Romansh was made a national language in Switzerland in the late 1980s. Safety features include UV-reactive paper, watermarks with the page number and Swiss cross, Guilloché printing with variegated colours, colour shift ink, and printing registration elements when the passport is held up to light. The photograph of the bearer was glued on and embossed with two seals. Black and white photographs were acceptable in Pass 85. As in older passport versions, the bearer's hair and eye colours were stated.\n\nPass 59, introduced in 1959, had a dark red cover with a Swiss coat of arms on the left and on three lines \"Passeport Suisse\", \"Schweizerpass\", and \"Passaporto Svizzero\". The inner pages were in four languages: French, German, Italian -- the three national languages at the time -- and English. Security features included watermarks and Guilloché printing.\n\nPass 1932 had a brown cover with a centred Swiss coat of arms and employed no security features. The Romansh language was not used.\n\nPass 1915 had a green cover with no printing, and also only had the three Swiss official languages and no security features. There were no restrictions on the size of the photograph of the bearer, which could extend beyond the page margins.\n\nAccording to the 2018 Henley Passport Index, Swiss citizens had visa-free or visa on arrival access to 185 countries and territories, ranking the Swiss passport fifth in the world in terms of travel freedom (tied with Belgian, Canadian and Irish passports).\n\nDual citizenship is allowed in Switzerland, but the requirements for the naturalization of foreigners vary from canton to canton. Male Swiss citizens, including dual citizens, can be required to perform military or civilian service, and Swiss citizens are not allowed to participate in any other military, unless they are a citizen of, and are resident in, the country in question. (The Swiss Guards of the Vatican are regarded as a \"house police\" and not as an army.)\n\n\"Prices in Swiss Francs (CHF) as of 24 January 2017 \"\n\nTemporary passports issued by the Federal Police at airports incur an additional fee of CHF 50.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "198970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=198970", "title": "Thing (assembly)", "text": "Thing (assembly)\n\nA thing was the governing assembly of an early Germanic society, made up of the free people of the community presided over by lawspeakers. The word appears in Old Norse, Old English, and modern Icelandic as \"þing\" (where \"þ\" is pronounced like unvoiced \"th\" /θ/), in Middle English (as in modern English), Old Saxon, Old Dutch, and Old Frisian as \"thing\", in German as \"Ding\", and in modern Norwegian, Danish, Swedish, Faroese, Gutnish, and Norn as \"ting\", all from a reconstructed Proto-Germanic neuter \"*þingą\"; the word is the same as the more common English word \"thing\", both having at their heart the basic meaning of \"an assemblage, a coming together of parts\"—in the one case, an \"assembly\" or \"meeting\", in the other, an \"entity\", \"object\", or \"thing\". The meeting-place of a thing was called a \"thingstead\" (Old English \"þingstede\") or \"thingstow\" (Old English \"þingstōw\").\n\nThe Anglo-Saxon folkmoot (Old English \"folcgemōt\", \"folk meeting\"; Middle English \"folkesmōt\"; modern Norwegian \"folkemøte\") was analogous, the forerunner to the \"witenagemōt\" and a precursor of the modern Parliament of the United Kingdom.\n\nToday the term lives on in the English term \"hustings\", in the official names of national legislatures and political and judicial institutions of Nordic countries and, in the Manx form \"tyn\", as a term for the three legislative bodies on the Isle of Man.\n\nThe Old Norse, Old Frisian, and Old English \"þing\" with the meaning \"assembly\" is identical in origin to the English word \"thing\", German \"Ding\", Dutch \"ding\", and modern Scandinavian \"ting\" when meaning \"object\". All of these terms derive from Proto-Germanic *\"þingą\" meaning \"appointed time\", and some suggest an origin in Proto-Indo-European *\"ten-\", \"stretch\", as in a \"stretch of time for an assembly\". The word shift in the meaning of the word \"thing\" from \"assembly\" to \"object\" is mirrored in the evolution of the Latin \"causa\" (\"judicial lawsuit\") to modern French \"chose\", Spanish/Italian/Catalan \"cosa\", and Portuguese \"coisa\" (all meaning \"object\" or \"thing\"). A word with similar meaning, the cognate to English \"sake\" (purpose), \"sak\" in Norwegian and Swedish, \"sag\" in Danish, \"zaak\" in Dutch, and \"Sache\" in German, still retains the meaning \"affair, matter\" alongside \"thing, object\".\n\nIn English the term is attested from 685 to 686 CE in the older meaning \"assembly\"; later it referred to a being, entity or matter (sometime before 899), and then also an act, deed, or event (from about 1000). The early sense of \"meeting, assembly\" did not survive the shift to Middle English. The meaning of personal possessions, commonly in the plural, first appears in Middle English around 1300.\n\nIn the pre-Christian clan-culture of Scandinavia the members of a clan were obliged to avenge injuries against their dead and mutilated relatives. A balancing structure was necessary to reduce tribal feuds and avoid social disorder. It is known from North-Germanic cultures that the balancing institution was the thing, although similar assemblies are also reported from other Germanic peoples and others.\n\nThe thing was the assembly of the free men and women of a country, province or a hundred (, ). There were consequently hierarchies of things, so that the local things were represented at the higher-level thing, for a province or land. At the thing, disputes were solved and political decisions were made. The place for the thing was often also the place for public religious rites and for commerce.\n\nThe thing met at regular intervals, legislated, elected chieftains and kings, and judged according to the law, which was memorized and recited by the \"lawspeaker\" (the judge). The thing's negotiations were presided over by the lawspeaker and the chieftain or the king. In reality the thing was dominated by the most influential members of the community, the heads of clans and wealthy families, but in theory one-person one-vote was the rule.\n\nHaugating, the Thing for Vestfold in Norway, was located in Tønsberg at Haugar (from the Old Norse \"haugr\" meaning hill or mound). This site was one of Norway's most important places for the proclamation of kings. In 1130, Harald Gille called together a meeting at the Haugating at which he was declared to be King of Norway. Sigurd Magnusson was proclaimed king in 1193 at Haugating. Magnus VII was acclaimed hereditary King of Norway and Sweden at the Haugating in August 1319.\n\nA famous incident took place when Þorgnýr the Lawspeaker told the Swedish king Olof Skötkonung (c. 980–1022) that the people, not the king, held power in Sweden; the king realized that he was powerless against the thing and gave in. Main things in Sweden were the Thing of all Swedes, the Thing of all Geats and the Lionga thing.\n\nThe island of Gotland had twenty things in late medieval times, each represented at the island-thing called \"landsting\" by its elected judge. New laws were decided at the landsting, which also took other decisions regarding the island as a whole. The landsting's authority was successively eroded after the island was occupied by the Teutonic Order in 1398. In late medieval times the thing was made up of twelve representatives for the farmers, free-holders or tenants.\n\nThe assembly of the thing was typically held at a specially designated place, often a field or common, like Þingvellir, the old location of the Icelandic thing (Alþingi). The parliament of the Isle of Man is still named after the meeting place of the thing, Tynwald, which etymologically is the same word as \"þingvellir\" (there is still an annual public assembly at Tynwald Hill each July 5, where the new Manx laws are read out and petitions delivered). Other equivalent placenames can be found across northern Europe; in Scotland, there is Dingwall in the Scottish Highlands and Tingwall, occurring both in Orkney and Shetland, and further south there is Tinwald, in Dumfries and Galloway. In Sweden, there are several places named Tingvalla, which is the modern Swedish form of \"Þingvellir\", and the Norwegian equivalent is found in the place name Tingvoll. In Dublin, Ireland the \"Thingmote\" was a raised mound, 40 foot high and 240 foot in circumference, where the Norsemen assembled and made their laws. It stood on the south of the river, adjacent to Dublin Castle, until 1685.\n\nSimilarly, in England there is Thingwall on the Wirral. In the Yorkshire and former Danelaw areas of England, which like the Wirral and north west England were subject to much Norse invasion and settlement, \"wapentake\"s - another name for the same institution = were, until recently, still used in public records. Several places ending in the \"-by\" (\"village\") place name suffix originally possessed their own laws - \"by-laws\" - and jurisdiction subject to the wapentake in which they served, which often extended over a surrounding ground called a \"thorpe\" (\"hamlet\"). If there was a riding surrounding the wapentake, the wapentake would merely be a local assembly coordinating the power of the riding, which in Scandinavian York's case, would be under the king's command at what is now King's Square in York. The Kingdom of East Anglia was in control of the Danelaw which had been organised as the Five Boroughs. The Five were fortifications defending land against Wessex, or against the Vikings, depending on who ruled there; together with Lindsey, Lincolnshire, which was divided into three ridings like Yorkshire. Again, the naming of the two roads named Inner and Outer Ting Tong on a hill-top in Devon between Budleigh Salterton, Woodbury and Exmouth is widely derided as fanciful, but may be derived from Thing-Tun, a dun (hill fort) or tun (settlement) around the place where the Thing used to meet.\n\nThynghowe was an important Danelaw meeting place, or thing, located in Sherwood Forest, Nottinghamshire, England. It was lost to history until its rediscovery in 2005–06 by local history enthusiasts Lynda Mallett and Stuart Reddish.[1] The site lies amidst the old oaks of an area known as the Birklands in Sherwood Forest. Experts believe it may also yield clues as to the boundary of the Anglo Saxon kingdoms of Mercia and Northumbria. English Heritage has recently inspected the site, and has confirmed it was known as \"Thynghowe\" in 1334 and 1609.[2] It functioned as a place where people came to resolve disputes and settle issues. Thynghowe is an Old Norse name, although the site may be older than the Danelaw, perhaps even Bronze Age. The word \"howe\" is derived from the Old Norse word \"haugr\" meaning mound. This often indicates the presence of a prehistoric burial mound.[3]\n\nThe national legislatures of Iceland, Norway and Denmark all have names that incorporate \"thing\":\n\n\nThe legislatures of the self-governing territories of the Åland Islands, Faroe Islands, Greenland and Isle of Man also have names that refer to \"thing\":\n\n\nIn addition, \"thing\" can be found in the name of the Swedish Assembly of Finland (\"Svenska Finlands folkting\"), a semi-official body representing the Finland Swedish, and those of the three distinct elected Sámi assemblies which are all called \"Sameting\" in Norwegian and Swedish.\n\nThe Swedish national legislature, since medieval times, has borne a different style, Riksdag, which is cognate to the old name of the German national assembly, Reichstag. In Sweden, however, \"ting\" is used to name the subnational county councils, which are called Landsting. That name was also used in medieval times for the tings that governed the historical Landskap provinces, that were superseded by the counties in the 17th century. The name \"ting\" is also found in the names of the first level instances of the Swedish and Finnish court system, which are called tingsrätt (), the Court of the Thing.\n\nSimilarly, prior to 1953, the Danish legislature was known as Rigsdagen, which comprised the two houses of the Folketing \"People's Thing\" and Landsting \"Land Thing\". The latter, which was reserved for people of means, was abolished by the constitution of 1953.\n\nThe Norwegian parliament, the \"Storting\", has historically been divided into two chambers named the \"Lagting\" and the \"Odelsting\", which translates loosely into the \"Thing of the Law\" and the \"Thing of the Allodial rights\". However, for much of the Storting's recent history, the division into Lagting and Odelsting has been mostly ceremonial, and the Storting has generally operated as a unicameral parliament. A constitutional amendment passed in February 2007 abolished the Lagting and Odelsting, making this \"de facto\" unicameralism official following the 2009 election.\n\nOn the lower administrative level the governing bodies on the county level in Norway are called Fylkesting, the Thing of the County. The names of the judicial courts of Norway contain for the most part the affix \"ting\". The primary level of courts is called the \"Tingrett\", with the same meaning as the Swedish \"Tingsrätt\", and four of the six Norwegian Courts of Appeal are named after historical Norwegian regional Things (\"Frostating\", \"Gulating\", \"Borgarting\" and \"Eidsivating\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "460932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=460932", "title": "Timber and Stone Act", "text": "Timber and Stone Act\n\nThe Timber and Stone Act of 1878 (45th Congress, Sess. 2, ch. 151, ) in the United States sold Western timberland for $2.50 per acre ($618/km²) in 160 acre (0.6 km²) blocks.\n\nLand that was deemed \"unfit for farming\" was sold to those who might want to \"timber and stone\" (logging and mining) upon the land. The act was used by speculators who were able to get great expanses declared \"unfit for farming\" allowing them to increase their land holdings at minimal expense.\n\nIn theory the purchaser was to make an affidavit that he was entering the land exclusively for his own use and that no association was to hold more than . In practice however, wealthy companies seeking to access natural resources semi-fraudulently circumvented the law by hiring individuals to purchase lots that were then deeded to the company after a nominal compliance with the law. This was legal only in that companies complied with the letter of the law while brashly ignoring the spirit of it. Ultimately, said companies were able to obtain title up to . \n\n"}
{"id": "506701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506701", "title": "Trustee", "text": "Trustee\n\nTrustee (or the holding of a trusteeship) is a legal term which, in its broadest sense, is a synonym for anyone in a position of trust and so can refer to any person who holds property, authority, or a position of trust or responsibility for the benefit of another. A trustee can also refer to a person who is allowed to do certain tasks but not able to gain income. Although in the strictest sense of the term a trustee is the holder of property on behalf of a beneficiary, the more expansive sense encompasses persons who serve, for example, on the board of trustees of an institution that operates for a charity, for the benefit of the general public, or a person in the local government.\n\nA trust can be set up either to benefit particular persons, or for any charitable purposes (but not generally for non-charitable purposes): typical examples are a will trust for the testator's children and family, a pension trust (to confer benefits on employees and their families) and a charitable trust. In all cases, the trustee may be a person or company, whether or not they are a prospective beneficiary.\n\nTrustees have certain duties (some of which are fiduciary). These include the duty to:\n\nThe modern interpretation of fiduciary duty requires the consideration of environmental, social, and governance (ESG) factors as these are long-term investment value drivers. When evaluating whether or not an institutional investor has delivered on its fiduciary duties, both the outcomes achieved and the process followed are of critical importance. \n\nThe terms of instrument that creates the trust may narrow or expand these duties—but in most instances they cannot be eliminated completely. Corporate trustees, typically trust departments at large banks, often have very narrow duties, limited to those the trust indenture explicitly defines.\n\nA trustee carries the fiduciary responsibility and liability to use the trust assets according to the provisions of the trust instrument (and often regardless of their own or the beneficiaries' wishes). The trustee may find himself liable to claimants, prospective beneficiaries, or third parties. In the event that a trustee incurs a liability (for example, in litigation, or for taxes, or under the terms of a lease) in excess of the trust property they hold, they may find themselves personally liable for the excess.\n\nTrustees are generally held to a \"prudent person\" standard in regard to meeting their fiduciary responsibilities, though investment, legal, and other professionals can, in some jurisdictions, be held to a higher standard commensurate with their higher expertise.-Trustees can be paid for their time and trouble in performing their duties only if the trust specifically provides for payment. It is common for lawyers to draft will trusts so as to permit such payment, and to take office accordingly: this may be an unnecessary expense for small estates.\n\nIn an exception to the duties outlined above, sabbatical officers of students' unions who are also trustees of these organisations they work for do have the right to a salary (and hence profit from their being a trustee). This is an exception explicitly granted in the 1993 act\n\nThe broadest sense of the term \"trustee\" applies to someone held to a fiduciary duty similar in some respects to that of a trustee proper. For example, the directors of a bank may be trustees for the depositors, directors of a corporation are trustees for the stockholders and a guardian is trustee of his ward's property. Many corporations call their governing board a board of trustees, though in those cases they act as a board of directors.\n\nIn the case of UK charities, a \"trustee\" is a volunteer who undertakes fiduciary responsibilities on behalf of the charity, subject to the provisions of Charity Law, a branch of trust law, and the Charities Act 1993. For charity trustees, the Charity Commission of England and Wales, Office of the Scottish Charity Regulator of Scotland and Voluntary Activity Unit of Northern Ireland often has concurrent jurisdiction with the courts. Many UK charities are also limited liability companies registered with Companies House, in this case the trustees are also directors of the company and their liability is limited. This is the preferred model if the charity owns property or employs people.\n\nThe law on this in England changed considerably with the Charities Act of 2006. An account of the main changes can be found in \"Charities Act 2006 A guide to the new law\" by Michael King and Ann Phillips. One of the key changes made was that it introduced the Charitable Incorporated Organisation which is basically a limited liability charity. There are thus now two main aspects of corporate management of charities.\n\nOne is the traditional way in which a corporation is a corporate trustee of a given charity. The second is the new way, in which the charity itself is incorporated as a CIO. The advantages and disadvantages of the different methods is a complicated matter. According to King and Philips, many of the advantages of incorporating as a CIO are obtained if the trustees are not individuals but a corporate entity. \n\nDepending on the state, a trustee is a member of the \"village board of trustees\", which is a village's elected legislative body as outlined by local or state law. It can be composed of the mayor and a set number of trustees and usually manages village property, finances, safety, health, comfort, and general welfare and leadership of the town (acting as a board of police or fire commissioners or a moderate income housing board for example). \"Village board of trustees\" is comparable to but distinguished from city council or town council. Small villages have a trustee instead of a mayor, who is elected to manage village business in a similar function.\n\nIn some states, a civil township may be administered by a trustee or a group of trustees; see Indiana Township Trustee for an example.\n\nIn this context, a \"trusty\" is a prisoner who is trusted not to attempt an escape, and therefore requires little or no guarding. For example, a trusty may be allowed to leave the prison to attend work or other important events. Many times, \"trusty\" is misspelled as \"trustee\".\n\nIn the United States, when a consumer or business files for bankruptcy all property belonging to the filer becomes property of a newly created entity, the \"bankruptcy estate\". (See 11 U.S.C. § 541.) For all bankruptcies (consumer or business) filed under Chapter 7, 12 or 13 of Title 11 of the United States Code (the Bankruptcy Code), a trustee (the \"trustee in bankruptcy\" or TIB) is appointed by the United States Trustee, an officer of the Department of Justice that is charged with ensuring the integrity of the bankruptcy system and with representatives in each court, to manage the property of the bankruptcy estate, including bringing actions to avoid pre-bankruptcy transfers of property. In bankruptcies filed under Chapter 11, the debtor continues to manage the property of the bankruptcy estate, as \"debtor in possession,\" subject to replacement for cause with a trustee.\n\nChapter 7 trustees in bankruptcy are chosen by the United States Trustee from a panel, and are known as panel trustees. Every judicial district has a permanent Chapter 13 trustee, known as a \"standing trustee.\" As cases under Chapter 12 (for family farmers or fishermen) are filed fairly infrequently, the United States Trustee usually makes trustee appointments in such cases on an ad hoc basis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48626", "title": "War crime", "text": "War crime\n\nA war crime is an act that constitutes a serious violation of the laws of war that gives rise to individual criminal responsibility. Examples of war crimes include intentionally killing civilians or prisoners, torturing, destroying civilian property, taking hostages, performing a perfidy, raping, using child soldiers, pillaging, declaring that no quarter will be given, and seriously violating the principles of distinction and proportionality, such as strategic bombing of civilian populations.\n\nThe concept of war crimes emerged at the turn of the twentieth century when the body of customary international law applicable to warfare between sovereign states was codified. Such codification occurred at the national level, such as with the publication of the Lieber Code in the United States, and at the international level with the adoption of the treaties during the Hague Conventions of 1899 and 1907. Moreover, trials in national courts during this period further helped clarify the law. Following the end of World War II, major developments in the law occurred. Numerous trials of Axis war criminals established the Nuremberg principles, such as notion that war crimes constituted crimes defined by international law. Additionally, the Geneva Conventions in 1949 defined new war crimes and established that states could exercise universal jurisdiction over such crimes. In the late 20th century and early 21st century, following the creation of several international courts, additional categories of war crimes applicable to armed conflicts other than those between states, such as civil wars, were defined.\n\nThe trial of Peter von Hagenbach by an ad hoc tribunal of the Holy Roman Empire in 1474 was the first \"international\" war crimes trial, and also of command responsibility. He was convicted and beheaded for crimes that \"he as a knight was deemed to have a duty to prevent\", although he had argued that he was \"just following orders\".\n\nIn 1865, Henry Wirz, a Confederate States Army officer, was held accountable by a military tribunal and hanged for the appalling conditions at Andersonville Prison, where many Union prisoners of war died during the American Civil War.\n\nThe Hague Conventions were international treaties negotiated at the First and Second Peace Conferences at The Hague, Netherlands, in 1899 and 1907, respectively, and were, along with the Geneva Conventions, among the first formal statements of the laws of war and war crimes in the nascent body of secular international law.\n\nThe Geneva Conventions are four related treaties adopted and continuously expanded from 1864 to 1949 that represent a legal basis and framework for the conduct of war under international law. Every single member state of the United Nations has currently ratified the conventions, which are universally accepted as customary international law, applicable to every situation of armed conflict in the world. However, the Additional Protocols to the Geneva Conventions adopted in 1977 containing the most pertinent, detailed and virulent protections of international humanitarian law for persons and objects in modern warfare are still not ratified by a number of States continuously engaged in armed conflicts, namely the United States, Israel, India, Pakistan, Iraq, Iran, and others. Accordingly, states retain different codes and values with regard to wartime conduct. Some signatories have routinely violated the Geneva Conventions in a way which either uses the ambiguities of law or political maneuvering to sidestep the laws' formalities and principles.\n\nThree conventions were revised and expanded with the fourth one added in 1949:\n\nTwo Additional Protocols were adopted in 1977 with the third one added in 2005, completing and updating the Geneva Conventions:\n\nA small number of German military personnel of the First World War were tried in 1921 by the German Supreme Court for alleged war crimes.\n\nThe modern concept of war crime was further developed under the auspices of the Nuremberg Trials based on the definition in the London Charter that was published on August 8, 1945. (Also see Nuremberg Principles.) Along with war crimes the charter also defined crimes against peace and crimes against humanity, which are often committed during wars and in concert with war crimes.\n\nAlso known as the Tokyo Trial, the Tokyo War Crimes Tribunal or simply as the Tribunal, it was convened on May 3, 1946 to try the leaders of the Empire of Japan for three types of crimes: \"Class A\" (crimes against peace), \"Class B\" (war crimes), and \"Class C\" (crimes against humanity), committed during World War II.\n\nOn July 1, 2002, the International Criminal Court, a treaty-based court located in The Hague, came into being for the prosecution of war crimes committed on or after that date. Several nations, most notably the United States, China, Russia, and Israel, have criticized the court. The United States still participates as an observer. Article 12 of the Rome Statute provides jurisdiction over the citizens of non-contracting states in the event that they are accused of committing crimes in the territory of one of the state parties.\n\nWar crimes are defined in the statute that established the International Criminal Court, which includes:\n\nHowever the court only has jurisdiction over these crimes where they are \"part of a plan or policy or as part of a large-scale commission of such crimes\".\n\nTo date, the present and former heads of state and heads of government that have been charged with war crimes include:\n\n\nWar crimes are serious violations of the rules of customary and treaty law concerning international humanitarian law that have become accepted as criminal offenses for which there is individual responsibility.\nColloquial definitions of \"war crime\" include violations of established protections of the \"laws of war\", but also include failures to adhere to norms of procedure and rules of battle, such as attacking those displaying a peaceful flag of truce, or using that same flag as a ruse to mount an attack on enemy troops. The use of chemical and biological weapons in warfare are also prohibited by numerous chemical arms control agreements and the Biological Weapons Convention. Wearing enemy uniforms or civilian clothes to infiltrate enemy lines for espionage or sabotage missions is a legitimate ruse of war, though fighting in combat or assassinating individuals, even if they are military targets, behind enemy lines while so disguised is not, as it constitutes unlawful perfidy. Attacking enemy troops while they are being deployed by way of a parachute is not a war crime. However, Protocol I, Article 42 of the Geneva Conventions explicitly forbids attacking parachutists who eject from disabled aircraft and surrendering parachutists once landed. Article 30 of the 1907 Hague Convention \"IV - The Laws and Customs of War on Land\" explicitly prohibits belligerents to punish enemy spies without previous trial. \n\nThe rule of war, also known as the Law of Armed Conflict, permit belligerents to engage in combat. A war crime occurs when superfluous injury or unnecessary suffering is inflicted upon an enemy.\n\nWar crimes also include such acts as mistreatment of prisoners of war or civilians. War crimes are sometimes part of instances of mass murder and genocide though these crimes are more broadly covered under international humanitarian law described as crimes against humanity. In 2008, the U.N. Security Council adopted Resolution 1820, which noted that \"rape and other forms of sexual violence can constitute war crimes, crimes against humanity or a constitutive act with respect to genocide\"; see also war rape. In 2016, the International Criminal Court convicted someone of sexual violence for the first time; specifically, they added rape to a war crimes conviction of Congo Vice President Jean-Pierre Bemba Gombo.\n\nWar crimes also included deliberate attacks on citizens and property of neutral states as they fall under the category of non-combatants, as at the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor. As the attack on Pearl Harbor happened without a declaration of war, without explicit warning, and went out of proportion, all military and civilian casualties at the harbor were officially non-combatants, the military were not ready for face up to the attack and the attack was declared by the Tokyo Trials to go beyond justification of military necessity and therefore constituted a war crime.\n\nWar crimes are significant in international humanitarian law because it is an area where international tribunals such as the Nuremberg Trials and Tokyo Trials have been convened. Recent examples are the International Criminal Tribunal for the Former Yugoslavia and the International Criminal Tribunal for Rwanda, which were established by the UN Security Council acting under Chapter VIII of the UN Charter.\n\nUnder the Nuremberg Principles, \"war crimes\" are different from crimes against peace which is planning, preparing, initiating, or waging a war of aggression, or a war in violation of international treaties, agreements, or assurances.\nBecause the definition of a state of \"war\" may be debated, the term \"war crime\" itself has seen different usage under different systems of international and military law. It has some degree of application outside of what some may consider to be a state of \"war\", but in areas where conflicts persist enough to constitute social instability.\n\nThe legalities of war have sometimes been accused of containing favoritism toward the winners (\"Victor's justice\"), as some controversies have not been ruled as war crimes. Some examples include the Allies' destruction of Axis cities during World War II, such as the firebombing of Dresden, the indiscriminate bombings started by Churchill, the \"Operation Meetinghouse\" raid on Tokyo (the most destructive single bombing raid in history) and the atomic bombings of Hiroshima and Nagasaki; and the mass killing of Biharies by Kader Siddique and Mukti Bahini before or after victory of Bangladesh Liberation War in Bangladesh between 1971 and 1972.\nIn regard to the strategic bombing during World War II, there was no international treaty or instrument protecting a civilian population specifically from attack by aircraft, therefore the aerial attacks on civilians were not officially war crimes. Because of this, the Allies at the trials in Nuremberg and Tokyo never prosecuted the Germans, including Luftwaffe commander-in-chief Hermann Göring, for the bombing raids on Warsaw, Rotterdam, and British cities during the Blitz as well as the indiscriminate attacks on Allied cities with V-1 flying bombs and V-2 rockets nor the Japanese for the aerial attacks on crowded Chinese cities. Although there are no treaties specific to aerial warfare, Protocol 1, Article 51 of the Geneva Conventions explicitly prohibits the bombardment of cities where civilian population might be concentrated regardless of any method. (see Aerial bombardment and international law).\n\nControversy arose when the Allies re-designated German POWs (under the protection of the 1929 Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War) as Disarmed Enemy Forces (allegedly unprotected by the 1929 Geneva Convention on Prisoners of War), many of which then were used for forced labor such as clearing minefields. By December 1945, six months after the war had ended, it was estimated by French authorities that 2,000 German prisoners were still being killed or maimed each month in mine-clearing accidents. The wording of the 1949 Third Geneva Convention was intentionally altered from that of the 1929 convention so that soldiers who \"fall into the power\" following surrender or mass capitulation of an enemy are now protected as well as those taken prisoner in the course of fighting.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17302909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17302909", "title": "Washington Monument Syndrome", "text": "Washington Monument Syndrome\n\nThe Washington Monument syndrome, also known as the Mount Rushmore Syndrome, or the firemen first principle, is a term used to describe the phenomenon of government agencies in the United States cutting the most visible or appreciated service provided by the government when faced with budget cuts. It has been used in reference to cuts in popular services such as national parks and libraries or to valued public employees such as teachers and firefighters. This is done to put pressure on the public and lawmakers to rescind budget cuts. The term can also refer to claims by lawmakers that a proposed budget cut would hinder \"essential\" government services (firefighters, police, education, etc.).\n\nAlthough intended to highlight the government's value to voters, it can also be aimed at lawmakers themselves. Faced with budget cuts in the 1970s, Amtrak announced plans to cease train routes in the home districts of several members of Congress.\n\nThe term was first used after George Hartzog, the seventh director of the National Park Service, closed popular national parks such as the Washington Monument and Grand Canyon National Park for two days a week in 1969. In response to complaints, Congress eventually restored the funding and Hartzog resigned.\n\nArchitectural historian Nicole Sully has termed the shutdown of the \"Pandacam\" at the National Zoo and the fencing off of the National World War II Memorial during the United States federal government shutdown of 2013 to be examples of the \"syndrome.\" Sully writes: \"In reality, the closure of these monuments was likely to have been undertaken, firstly, for reasons of public liability, maintenance and security, and secondly, to ensure that the shutdown was made visible to the public – and it was for this latter reason that it was widely questioned by the public and the media.\"\n\n"}
