{"id": "2686769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2686769", "title": "Ada Jones", "text": "Ada Jones\n\nAda Jane Jones (June 1, 1873 – May 2, 1922) was an English-American popular singer who made her first recordings in 1893 on Edison cylinders. She is among the earliest female singers to be recorded.\n\nShe was born in Lancashire, UK, but moved with her family to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, at the age of six in 1879. She started performing on stage, including juvenile roles in the 1880s.\n\nShe sang in a contralto, learning songs by ear, and lacked the ability to read music or play an instrument. Her repertoire included ballads, ragtime, vaudeville, and comedy in a variety of dialects. During 1893–1894, she recorded for Edison Records on wax cylinders, making her among the earliest female singers to be recorded. She sang with Billy Murray, Billy Watkins, Cal Stewart, Len Spencer, the American Quartet, and with her 12-year-old daughter Sheilah. Touring was made difficult due to epilepsy.\n\nIn 1893 or 1894 she recorded some musical performances for the North American Phonograph Company, including \"Sweet Marie\" and \"The Volunteer Organist\". But the demise of this company interrupted her recording career and it was not until 1905 that she returned to recording, after a few years doing performances at such locations as Huber's 14th Street Museum in New York City.\n\nAda Jones recorded \"The Yama Yama Man\" in 1909 for the Victor Light Opera Company. The lyrics for verse two and three were changed from the original, verse two being more bawdy. It was the most popular song of her career, spending five weeks at number one.\n\nJones died in Rocky Mount, North Carolina, on May 22, 1922 of kidney failure.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8795541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8795541", "title": "Airlock Alpha", "text": "Airlock Alpha\n\nAirlock Alpha, formerly SyFy Portal, is an entertainment news website focusing on science-fiction, fantasy and comic book television series and films.\n\nAfter a collaboration between Michael Hinman and Greg Boubel, the site debuted August 13, 1998, as \"Syfyman's World\", later renamed \"SyFy World\". In 2000, SyFy World became part of Trek Nation, the parent network of TrekToday. In 2001, the site merged with the Star Trek Portal website and relaunched as \"SyFy Portal\".\n\nOn February 23, 2009, the site announced a rebranding under the new name of Airlock Alpha. No reason outside of a new marketing strategy was given for the name change at the time, but on March 16, 2009, Sci Fi Channel announced that it was changing its name to Syfy, and Airlock Alpha revealed that it had sold its former brand name to an undisclosed party a month earlier.\n\nAirlock Alpha created the Genre Awards in 1999, which has handed out awards for genre television and movies nearly every year since. It is based upon fan-based voting. The awards were later renamed as the Portal Awards.\n\nAs of September 30, 2015, Airlock Alpha is uploading content and is online.\nAs of October 4, 2015, Airlock Alpha is back offline. Its site is still up, but it hasn't posted any information since.\n"}
{"id": "819332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=819332", "title": "Arcee", "text": "Arcee\n\nArcee is the name of several fictional characters in the \"Transformers\" franchise. They are female Autobots, usually pink or blue in color. Being the most famous of the Female Autobots, she has made more appearances and has had several more incarnations than any other female Transformer. Originally she turned into a car, however, later incarnations have turned into motorcycles. The character has gained much notability upon appearing in \"\", even though that incarnation is significantly altered than the others. \nArcee's design, alternate mode, and personality vary depending on continuity. Usually colored pink and white, she has also been depicted as a blue-colored character, and Botcon storyline saw her reformatted into a Maximal spider.\n\nArcee is a female Autobot warrior and the daughter of Fortress Maximus who turns into a pink convertible. She was voiced by Susan Blu.\n\nAlthough a group of Female Autobots had already been featured in one episode of the original cartoon series, Arcee quickly became the best-known due to her position as a recurring cast member following her introduction in \"\".\nArcee who would go on to be involved in several more \"Transformers\"-related shows as voice director, even reprising her role as Arcee in . Arcee was a gunner and was depicted as being an excellent marksman. Arcee was not one of the Female Autobots in the aforementioned group. In the season 3 introduction, \"Five Faces of Darkness\", she accompanies Springer on a mission to track down a sleezoid ship. The mission eventually reunites them with Grimlock and Rodimus Prime. They also go onto rescue Ultra Magnus, Kup and Spike Witwicky from the clutches of the Quintessons.\n\nArcee would appear sporadically over the course of the season, and even kept her main character status into the fourth season dubbed \"The Rebirth\". She was a major player in \"Dark Awakening\", being among the crew zombie Optimus Prime betrayed aboard the mausoleum. And, in \"Dweller in the Depths\", she is seen fighting back against Springer when he is turned into an energy vampire.\nIn the episode \"Only Human\", Ultra Magnus, Springer, Rodimus Prime and Arcee found their minds transferred into human-mimicking \"synthoid\" bodies by the human crime lord Victor Drath.\n\nIn the final three episodes of the U.S. television series, when the Decepticons successfully stole the key to the Plasma Energy Chamber and opened the ancient device, a group of Autobots and humans included Arcee and Daniel Witwicky were blasted across the galaxy by the energy release, crash-landing on the planet Nebulos. Quickly siding with a group of rebels engaged in a war against the planet's evil rulers, the Hive, they deduced a process by which they could combine the best of their minds and bodies together, becoming Headmasters. While the other Autobot Headmasters combined with Nebulons, Daniel became Arcee's Headmaster partner.\n\nIn the Japanese television series \"Transformers: The Headmasters\", the events of the last three episodes of the U.S. series were ignored. Although Headmasters were introduced, they had a vastly different origin. Arcee did not become a Headmaster, but was a regular on this series, appearing in most of the episodes, from episode 1 \"Four Warriors Come Out of The Sky\" to episode 35 \"The Final Showdown On Earth Part 2\".\n\nIn the \"Beast Wars\" episode \"Transmutate\", Rattrap referred to Arcee as his great aunt: \"What in the name of my great aunt Arcee is going on!?\" The character Transmutate was coincidentally voiced by Susan Blu, who also voiced Arcee.\n\nArcee appeared in the 1986 story and coloring book \"The Lost Treasure of Cybertron\" by Marvel Books.\n\n\"Transformers: Universe Wreckers\" #1 starts with a flashback to late in the original cartoon series, where Daniel Witwicky and Wheelie are killed. This puts Daniel's friend Arcee into a sad state. The main story is set in the later episodes of \"Beast Machines\". Arcee, now a Maximal Valkyrie with a spider beast mode, joins the Wreckers, though initially she proves unwilling. The Predacon Fractyl speaks with her after the rest of the group leaves, but is then almost killed by the Vehicons, and Arcee saves his life by sharing her Spark with him, converting him into a new body in the process. The two then rejoin the rest of the team and flee Cybertron in an Autobot shuttle, which unbeknownst to them has been boarded by Devcon. A confrontation with him leaves Fractyl dangerously wounded, and Arcee takes him to receive medical care. She and the other Wreckers are then betrayed by Cyclonus, who had infiltrated the team in service to the Predacon criminal Cryotek.\n\nAccording to the script for the unreleased issue #4 of \"Transformers: Universe - The Wreckers\" the Wreckers returned to Cybertron where they helped repel an invasion by the Quintessons.\n\nArcee appeared in the Devil's Due third series of \"G.I. Joe vs. The Transformers\". Grimlock, Arcee, Bumblebee, and Perceptor were sent to Earth to aid G.I. Joe in removing the influence of Cybertronian technology on Earth. When Cobra attacked the base, the Autobots helped repel the Cobra Battle Android Trooper armies. However, Cobra Commander was able to infiltrate the base and awaken the special project the government was working on - SerpentO.R, a cyborg created using DNA from many great warleaders and parts from Megatron. SerpentO.R. promptly turned on him and escaped to Cybertron via Spacebridge. The Autobots and a team of G.I. Joes led by Hawk pursued him. During this an attraction had been growing between Arcee and Bumblebee. This led to Bumblebee's death at the hands of SerpentO.R and Arcee and the others were captured. Freed by Snake Eyes, Arcee was part of the assault to rescue Prime and proved instrumental in SerpentO.R's (now controlled by Cobra Commander) defeat, ripping his chestpiece off and allowing Hawk to reach the Matrix, opening it and putting Cobra Commander in a coma. Arcee was seen mourning Bumblebee at the end.\n\nDuring the years when Shockwave united most of Cybertron, Arcee was in a resistance group to his rule along with Kup, Blaster, Hot Rod and Wheelie. Later, after Shockwave's defeat, Arcee joined Ultra Magnus in trying to fortify one of Cybertron's moons – but her affections were the subject of a feud between Hot Rod and Springer.\n\nIt is revealed in IDW Publishing's \"\" issue that Arcee was a part of Jhiaxus's experiments to introduce gender into the Cybertronian species. Arcee was his first test-subject and her creation was due to Jhiaxus altering with her CNA. According to Arcee she did not measure up to Jhiaxus's ideals and was abandoned.\n\nUnlike her other versions, this Arcee, while still an Autobot by allegiance, is a violent, antisocial killer who is imprisoned by the other Autobots at Garrus 9 for her actions. Released by a reluctant Fortress Maximus during a Decepticon attack to buy time for Jetfire's team to get rid of the Monstructor components, her power level appears much higher than a normal Autobot, as she is seen taking on all of the Combaticons single handed and winning, although unable to stop their kidnapping of the Monstructor components due to a teleporter based escape plan. She is classified as a \"level 9\" threat, the only Autobot of that power level present in the prison during the assault. Realizing there is a link between her and the Monstructor Transformers, as they were all created by Jhiaxus, Maximus and Jetfire release her to track them down.\n\nThroughout the \"Revelations\" arc, Arcee hunts for Jhiaxus to get her revenge, finally confronting him in \"Spotlight: Sideswipe\". She is informed by Hardhead that Jhiaxus cannot be destroyed forever as he is bound to the Dead Universe; she is pleased by this, as it means she has the chance to kill him, over and over, forever.\n\nIn \"Heart of Darkness\", it is revealed that she and Hardhead had remained on Garrus Prime to guard the portal to the Dead Universe and continue torturing Jhiaxus. When the D-Void called the entire population of the planet into the portal to feed on, Arcee was overwhelmed, but Hardhead, vaccinated against the call by his exposure to dead universe energy during revelations, held her back until the portal closed. Since then, they had been exploring the remains of a mysterious dead civilization uncovered by the portal closing. When Galvatron and the seekers arrived to investigate, Arcee and Hardhead engaged them and despite initial success including the severe wounding of Galvatron, became outmatched when Galvatron used the Heart of Darkness to heal himself and attack them, and Hardhead told her to run and get help. Cyclonus blasted a bridge out from under her, and left her for dead, but she was later seen pulling herself back out of the pit.\n\nLater on, Arcee joins with Prowl, becoming his personal assassin whom he deploys to murder Ratbat in order to keep peace on a post-war Cybertron. Prowl dispatches her to kill several more Decepticons, however some of these deaths are faked as a part of a conspiracy to rile up the many Decepticons on Cybertron into a frenzy against the provisional Autobot government. It is later revealed that Prowl has been under mind control by the Insecticon Bombshell since shortly after having Ratbat killed. Prowl is subsequently forced to become a part of a new Devastator under Bombshell's control. During this, Arcee appears to be loyal to the Decepticons, but once Devastator is unleashed on Cybertron, she kills Bombshell to sever his link with Prowl, enabling the newly formed Autobot combiner Superion to temporally overpower him.\n\nFollowing the Decepticons defeat, Starscream takes command of the neutral population of Cybertron, and banishes Autobot and Decepticon alike from the small city built in the aftermath of the war. Arcee leaves with Prowl and the Autobots, eventually joining them officially by carving their insignia into her shoulder.\n\n\"All stories exclusive to Marvel UK are in italics\"\n\nArcee was absent from the U.S. Marvel Comics (barring the adaptation of the movie), because the comics had established that in their continuity, Transformers did not possess sexes, thus Arcee's presence as a clearly female robot would have defied this.\n\nArcee also makes an appearance twice in the American \"Transformers: Headmasters #1\" as a background character in Fortress Maximus' regiment. In order to explain any Autobots introduced during the fourth (then-ongoing) and fifth production years, most of Fortress Maximus's crew on Cybertron and aboard the Steelhaven were unseen, or used generic bodies until readers were \"surprised\" with them later.\n\nArcee would appear in the UK Marvel comic issue #234, \"Prime's Rib!\" This story is set in the near future, 1995, where Optimus Prime, Jazz and Hot Rod introduce the latest Autobot, Arcee, to the human feminists. She was met with displeasure by the humans, being called a token female and disliked for her pink color. They were then attacked by Shockwave, Fangry, Horri-Bull and Squeezeplay, who thought the Autobot would be unveiling a new weapon. The Autobots fought off the Decepticons, who escaped, but nothing seemed to please the human feminists.\n\nThe UK comic also set a number of stories directly after the events of the movie. The \"Space Pirates\" arc saw Arcee skip guard duty at Autobot City; her dereliction of duty led directly the fall of Autobot City to the Quintessons. She was then used as bait in a Quintesson trap to claim the Creation Matrix from Rodimus Prime. Arcee achieved some measure of redemption by aiding Rodimus Prime, now reduced in power to his \"Hot Rod\" form, in his bid to reclaim Autobot City by activating Metroplex.\n\nArcee later joined Rodimus Prime's time-travelling party, helping in the fight against Galvatron during the \"Time Wars\". Arcee and the other future Autobots returned find to their own time-stream changed to a different, darker future, where Galvatron was alive and ruling most of Cybertron.\n\nArcee appeared among the Autobots under the command of Rodimus Prime in the alternate future story \"Aspects of Evil 2\" from Marvel UK Transformers #224. In this story Rodimus Prime remembered how Galvatron, Crankcase, Ruckus and Windsweeper killed Blurr and then attacked Rodimus Prime, Kup, Arcee and the Battle Patrol. Enraged, Rodimus nearly killed Galvatron, but to keep the Matrix from being contaminated by hatred he relented.\n\nArcee appeared in Marvel UK Transformers #251 \"The Void!\" where she was among the Autobot crew of a ship commanded by Rodimus Prime which was retreating from Cybertron.\n\nArcee appeared in the TFcon 2009 voice actor play \"Bee for, Bee now\".\n\nArcee appears as a playable character in the 2003 video game \"The Transformers\", voiced by Lenne Hardt.\n\nArcee appears as an unlockable character in the 2010 video game \"\".\n\nArcee appears as an unlockable character in the 2014 mobile video game \"Angry Birds Transformers\".\n\nArcee makes an appearance in the \"Robot Chicken\" episode \"Junk in the Trunk\". She gives Optimus Prime flowers before he dies of prostate cancer. Seth Green noted on the commentary for the episode that \"Nobody makes an Arcee, so we had to make one ourselves.\"\n\nArcee appeared in \"Lil Formers\" #93, \"Fembots\" by Matt Moylan, where she co-hosted a television talk show series.\n\nThe first reuse of the name Arcee was in Japan. In 2003, the name Arcee was given to the Mini-Con known in America as Sureshock (leading to some debate on the Mini-Con's gender - the Dreamwave Comics would later identify Sureshock as female, but the tech specs for \"Transformers: Cybertron\" Sureshock would refer to it as male). Sureshock was even repainted in pink and white colors in Japan as \"X-Dimension Arcee\".\n\nIn \"\", Arcee had a wide-release original mold made in homage to the original character. In the \"Energon\" storyline, the character Arcee was a female Omnicon who transformed into a motorcycle and used an energon crossbow. She was created to be a leader for the Omnicons and, as such, was the only Omnicon to have a unique name and body-type. In Japan the toy and character were named Ariel, a name used by the female transformer who was the \"girlfriend\" of Orion Pax in the original series's episode \"War Dawn\"; this Ariel would later become Elita One.\n\nIn the original Japanese series \"Superlink\", it is said Ariel took the form of a woman as a symbol of care, who protects all soldiers.\n\nThis incarnation of Arcee was a member of the Omnicons, a race and faction of robots exclusive to this fictional universe of Transformers. Larger than Mini-Cons, they can carry passengers and process raw energon to create tools, weapons, or energon stars. Omnicons were a main group of characters \"\" series allied with the Autobots. They were opposition of to the Decepticon allied Terrorcons.\n\nWhile Omnicons were formerly Autobots and Decepticons, these two sides set aside their differences and left Cybertron with Team Rodimus. The Omnicons eventually began working together to mine Energon, the energy-rich mineral needed to power Transformers and their technology. Invaluable to the Transformers because of their unique ability to handle, shape and process raw energon, which is damaging to normal Transformers, the Omnicons created the Cybertron cities as only they can. There are three distinct body types shared among the Omnicon ranks, but unlike the Terrorcons, each Omnicon possesses an individual mind of his own.\n\nAdditionally, there is one other Omnicon body-type - that of the unique Omnicon leader, Arcee. Transforming into a motorcycle and wielding an Energon crossbow, she arrived in the middle of Megatron's attack on Cybertron, guiding the Omnicon forces into subduing Unicron's hunger. She was soon frequently partnered with Kicker on the battlefield.\n\nAll of the Omnicon toys, including Arcee, were redecoed and released as Target store exclusives for the 2007 Transformers movie. The new colors are designed to look more like a real vehicle would be painted, in keeping with the theme of the movie.\n\nArcee also appeared in the Dreamwave Productions \"Transformers: Energon\" comics, as one of the four Omnicons watched over by the Mini-Con Over-Run.\n\nArcee would first appear in issue #19, being introduced to Optimus Prime by Over-Run as the first of the new species—the Omnicons. Subsequently, assigned to Earth for training, they managed to annoy their commander Hot Shot beyond reason but subsequently apprehended Snow Cat. Arcee would have further adventures battling Mirage, Sharkticon and Slugslinger to protect Kicker, eventually defeating them with Kicker's help.\n\nArcee appeared in the text story from Fun Publications called \"Force of Habit\". This story explained where she was during the events of the \"Cybertron\" story. Ultra Magnus was the commander of various Autobot ships sent to other planets in search for the Cyber Planet Keys. Arcee served as captain of the \"Azusa\" which was sent to Gamma Serpentis.\n\nArcee was initially set to be in the 2007 \"Transformers\" film and had a very positive fan reaction, but due to the fact that there was not enough time in the movie to explain the presence of a \"female\" in a robotic race, she was dropped from the script and replaced with Ironhide. Before she was dropped, her alternate mode was slated to be a Buell Firebolt motorcycle; concept art by Ben Procter can be seen on his website. Even though Arcee was not in the movie, a motorcycle was used by Captain William Lennox to attack Blackout (although the bike was an Aprilia RSV 1000 R rather than a Buell). Arcee was also initially set to battle Blackout in the movie. According to the Hasbro 2007 movie toy's tech spec for Arcee, she received combat training from Ironhide.\n\nAccording to the biography printed in the collected \"Reign of Starscream\" books, Arcee was once a member of the Autobot science team who had to adapt her skills when the war broke out.\n\nAccording to the biography for the \"Revenge of the Fallen\" Chromia toy, she is a sister to Chromia and Elita One. She is an unusual Cybertronian as she and her sisters (Chromia and Elita One) are controlled by one mind, allowing them to attack with extremely precise timing. According to the biography for her 2009 movie toy she commands her team. Writer Roberto Orci has stated he intended the three motorcycles to be a single mind, but Michael Bay portrayed them as individuals just like the Hasbro bios. According to Hasbro, Arcee is only about 7 feet tall but on the scale for the first film it was stated she was 9 feet tall.\n\nIn \"\" #1, back on ancient Cybertron Arcee was among Optimus Prime's crew at an excavation site near the temple at Simfur where an artifact was uncovered. In issue #2 Arcee helped in the recovery effort after the attack on Cybertron. She later sided with Optimus Prime against Megatron's orders to counter-attack their invaders. In issue #4 Arcee, Bumblebee, Cliffjumper, Jazz and Smokescreen ambushed Ironhide, who they believed worked for Megatron, but Ironhide instead joined Optimus Prime's Autobots. Arcee and Bumblebee later spied on the building of the Decepticon starship Nemesis.\n\nAlthough Arcee was not in the film, the character still appeared in the comic book \"\" where she fights as part of Bumblebee's squad. She realized that Bumblebee knew more than he was revealing, but likewise said nothing when their squad was captured and tortured by the Decepticons.\n\nIn \"Reign of Starscream\" the Decepticon Starscream barely made it to the Nemesis on Mars before he ran out of power. His return was noted by the Autobot Cosmos, who alerted Arcee, Cliffjumper, Smokescreen, Camshaft and Air Raid. Aided by Thundercracker on the Nemesis Starscream recovered and sent the information Frenzy had gathered back to Cybertron just as Hardtop spotted the Autobots closing on the Nemesis. Arcee appears on the cover of issue #3. In issue #4 Arcee returned to Cybertron from Mars by hiding in the landing gear of Starscream's ship. Once on the planet she was discovered by a Dreadwing and Payload drone, who she deactivated. Returning to an Autobot training facility she discovered Clocker, who took her to Crosshairs who was planning an attack to free the Autobots at Simfur, which they attempted with the aid of Wingblade, Skyblast, Breakaway and Strongarm.\n\nIn \"Tales of the Fallen\" #6 Arcee is taken by Thundercracker and given to the Decepticon medic Flatline, who experiments on her. Upon waking up she discovers Skids and Mudflap are also captives of the Decepticons. After she discovers her spark has been merged with that of Chromia and Elita One, they have a mental link, and use this to lead an escape. Arcee, Chromia and Elita One subsequently were among the Autobots to come to Earth in response to Optimus Prime's signal inviting all of his kind to come there. She joined with the Earth-based Autobots in \"\" #4.\n\nIn \"Rising Storm\" #1, its revealed that Arcee, Chromia, and Elita-One survived the events in eygpt and with the Autobots when they set a trap for Starscream's minions Divebomb, Fearswoop and Skystalker by having Theodore Galloway pose as an arms dealer attempting to purchase Cybertronian technology. The trap is uncovered and the Autobots send in Arcee, Chromia, Elita-One, Ironhide, Mudflap and Skids. Divebomb and Skystalker are killed while Fearswoop is captured by the Autobots and taken back to the NEST base on Diego Garcia. In issue #3, she, Chromia, and Elita one are sent to New York City hoping to get information from Starscream who was sending information to humans, but instead found Astrotrain and a monster, then they realized Shockwave is on Earth. They tried to contact Optimus and warn him, but Soundwave jammed their communications and were attack by his minions. Elita-One went to go warn Optimus. In issue #4, Elita-one is killed by Shockwave, Arcee and Chromia felt her death, they sent off the explosives which possibility killed Soundwave's minions, but Arcee and Chromia survived.\n\nNote - The appearance of Arcee is modified in some of the IDW Publishing stories, she has a Cybertronian alternate mode.\n\nNote: Information in \"italics\" occurs in the alternate storyline where Megatron won the battle for the Allspark.\n\n\"In \"Twilight's Last Gleaming\" part 1, Skyblast lead the Autobots Arcee, Armorhide, Elita One, Longarm, and Strongarm who in resisting the Decepticons who had conquered Earth. In part 3 Starscream and Scorponok attack the Autobots Arcee, , Elita One, Longarm, Skyblast, and Strongarm on the moon. The Autobots flee to Earth, which is exactly what Starscream hoped they'd do. In part 4 Ratchet and Ironhide continued fighting Bonecrusher in Savannah, but did not stand much of a chance until they were joined by Arcee, Armoride, and Longarm, arriving from the moon. In this story Arcee resembles a pink version of her scout class toy in robot mode, but assumes a Cybertronian \"protoform entry mode\" for her vehicle mode.\" \"Arcee appeared in issue #17 of the Titan Transformers Magazine, in a story called \"Return to Cybertron Part 1\". In this story she is among the Autobots that go to Cybertron.\" \"Arcee would return in issue #22 of the Titan Transformers Magazine series in a story called \"The Decepticon who Haunted Himself.\"\"\n\nAccording to her extended biography from the Target store exclusive Robo-Vision web site, Arcee was only on Earth for a short time before her stealth skills were needed elsewhere. Optimus Prime sent her to another planet to stop Decepticon research on a star breaking weapon.\n\nIn \"Revenge of the Fallen\" Arcee was accompanied by two similar Transformers, Chromia and Elita One, sharing similar robot and vehicle forms, as well as the same holographic driver. They chased the Decepticon Sideways in an alley in Shanghai, but lost track of him. They were later present when the Autobots faced off with the Decepticons in Egypt, and were sent with Ironhide as an advance team to recover Sam. Upon finding Sam and Mikaela, several Decepticons attacked, and Arcee and Elita One were shot, and killed while Chromia was last seen taking cover.\n\nIn \"Age of Extinction\" a card with her picture on it was seen with a Red 'X' through it confirming her death\n\n\nArcee is a female Autobot who seems to be inspired by her \"Generation 1\" counterpart and Susan Blu reprises the role. She was originally a teacher before the war began, her full name being Teaching Unit RC-687040.\n\nArcee makes an appearance in the \"Transformers Animated\" episode \"Thrill of the Hunt\". During several flashback sequences, Ratchet recalls his first encounter with the rogue bounty hunter Lockdown during the Great War thousands of years earlier. Still a young field medic at that time, Ratchet comes across Arcee, who has been injured in the fighting. He knocks her out to repair her left leg, but then they are both ambushed by Lockdown. After being taken to his hideout, Lockdown divulges that Arcee is carrying vital information Megatron would be interested in, intent to extract it for his employer. After Lockdown forcibly removes Ratchet's medical-use electro-magnetic pulse generator from his left arm as a personal trophy, Arcee manages to sneak it back to Ratchet. She then bravely tells Ratchet to use the EMP device on her to erase her data core so that Lockdown will not be able to retrieve the data from her. After protesting that doing so would also completely erase her entire life and memory, Ratchet is suddenly forced to do so in order to protect them both from Lockdown. After escaping, Arcee's memory has, as expected, been completely erased, including all knowledge of herself.\n\nIt was revealed in \"Transwarped\" that due to a special fail-safe program after being placed in stasis, Arcee uploads the data into Ratchet, allowing him to continue her mission of activating Omega Supreme.\n\nLong after the Great War has ended, a now-older Ratchet honors her by keeping the painful memory of her intact in his own mind. However, by the events of \"This is Why I Hate Machines\", when Megatron arrives to Cybertron in Omega Supreme, the exposed Shockwave begins setting up a scheme to track down Arcee and acquire the access code to Omega Supreme from her. His plans are delayed when Ratchet and Captain Fanzone arrive on Cybertron and made an attempt protect to Arcee before Shockwave escapes with her. However, it turned out her memory may not be as lost as previously believed. Though at first only her pre-war memories were available, Shockwave manages to recover her war-time ones before forcefully extracting the activation codes when she refused to give them willingly. This action resulted with Arcee relapsing until Sari's new-found ability allows Ratchet to use his EMP generator to restore Arcee's memories before she uses her codes to regain control of Omega Supreme. In the aftermath of the final battle on Earth, Arcee returns home to Cyberton with the Autobots, Omega Supreme, and the captured Megatron.\n\n\nA mirror-universe version of Arcee appeared in the \"Transformers: Timelines\" fiction. She is one of the evil Autobots. She is described as barely sane. She wields a neutronic crossbow with deadly accuracy.\n\nThis version of Arcee first appeared in the fiction \"Dungeons & Dinobots\", a text based story from Fun Publications. She was among the Autobots who attacked the Arch-Ayr fuel dump. She was attacked by the laughter inducing Decepticon Dirge as she fired on Gutcruncher.\n\n\"Transformers\" Scout Elite One (2007)\n\nArcee is one of the main group of Autobots in the 2010 computer animated series \"\". She transforms into a blue motorcycle, inspired by her appearance in the live film series, but with a more humanoid robot form. As a motorcycle she is capable of producing a humanoid female hologram driver who she refers to as \"Sadie\" to help disguise her identity. She can form bladed weapons or blasters from her hands. Arcee is the most focused character in the series, and arguably the show's main protagonist for much of the first and second seasons. Arcee played a smaller role in the third season, but had an episode that focused on her, \"Plus One\", where she started a potential relationship with Wheeljack, convincing him to stay with the Autobots. She is the only character to have actual flashbacks and complete in-depth origin episodes, where as characters such an Optimus Prime and Smokescreen have images of an event while they narrate the story. Arcee is also the only character to have two \"arch-enemies\" Starscream and Airachnid, creating a three-way rivalry, holding a grudge against the two for killing her former partners Cliffjumper and Tailgate respectively. She is also the only character who appeared in every single episode of the series until \"Triangulation\" (in which she was only mentioned) in the middle of the second season. After that she was absent from only three more episodes: \"Triage\", \"Chain of Command\", and \"Thirst\" (a Decepticon focused episode that featured no Autobots). Coincidently, Arcee's human partner Jack, is arguably the most focused human of the series, having had his own background focused on more in-depth unlike most other human characters.\n\nArcee appears in the short story \"Bumblebee at Tyger Pax\" By Alex Irvine.\n\nArcee appears as an unlockable character in the 2010 video game \"\" and on a poster in its 2012 sequel \"\". Arcee appears as a playable character in the 2012 video game \"\". Arcee, as the Angry Birds Stella transformed, is an unlockable character in Angry Birds Transformers.\n\nBefore the war, Arcee had been spying in Kaon, and sometime during it she had been rescued by Cliffjumper. When Optimus ordered the Autobots to Earth, her ship had been destroyed, and she was willing to wait as she detected the Decepticons had returned to Cybertron and they were planning something \"big\". There, she entered a base and annihilated the Vehicons there, inadvertently returning Cliffjumper's favor. She hacked into the Decepticons's communications signal there, and found their weapons lab in Kaon. Arcee found Cliffjumper a brash soldier inappropriate for her stealthy mission, but he convinced her Kaon was too dangerous and that she could use his ship to go to Earth.\n\nThe duo entered the city through the maintenance tunnels Arcee had once explored, and she found a secret staircase by activating an Autobot symbol on the wall. There they discovered Starscream had rebuilt a space bridge to travel to Earth. Concerned by the repercussions of the Decepticons's discovery of how to build space bridges, Arcee wanted to destroy it, but Cliffjumper convinced her it was their way off Cybertron. Distracting Starscream with a ruse, Arcee activated the space bridge and overloaded its systems, jumping through it with him before it blew up.\n\nLanding on Earth, the duo scanned their alternate modes and traveled to find a population center where they could build a scanner and find Optimus. Starscream attacked, having also jumped through the space bridge, blasting Arcee's arm off. Cliffjumper fought him and tried to get Arcee to safety, but she refused, telling him to leave her and find Optimus. Optimus and Bumblebee appeared, fending off Starscream and Breakdown. Optimus carried Arcee through a GroundBridge to base, where Ratchet reattached her arm.\n\nFollowing Optimus's sacrifice, Arcee, Bumblebee and Bulkhead encountered Sludge in a tunnel. They emerged on the surface in time to help Grimlock and the other Dinobots fight a squad of Forged. Arcee was shocked to hear they'd been created by Shockwave. After dealing with that threat, Arcee starting filling the Dinobots in on recent events, only for them to be promptly attacked by a new Predacon. The Autobots split into groups to head to Kaon, with Arcee and Swoop taking one group of survivors. Swoop drew off the Predacon when it attacked, allowing Arcee and the other to reach Kaon while the Predacon was dealt with. There, Arcee explained that the Dinobots would always be welcome in the Autobot ranks. Grimlock, however, said the Dinobots would be unable to help with the reconstruction of Kaon, since they'd be building a new home for the survivors.\n\nArcee took part in the testing of Ratchet's newly developed Safe training room, though she was amused by the medic's interest in making things explode. After Bulkhead broke through a wall, Arcee alerted the others to the rather large nuclear missile he'd accidentally uncovered and activated. A Vehicon scouting party showed up looking for the source of the energy signature the bomb was giving off, so Optimus, Arcee and Bumblebee went out to trash them. The trio returned to base a short time later to find Fowler had arrived to deal with the bomb. Optimus took the other Autobots, including Arcee, on a trip to Valley of Fire State Park.\n\nArcee roundly mocked Bulkhead as he attempted to decorate a Christmas tree. Unfortunately for her, after Fowler reported that the Decepticons had taken over a nuclear-powered ship, she found herself left at base with Bulkhead. The kids suggested she and Bulkhead try to find something they both liked, but progress was slow until they discovered their mutual love of ice skating. They subsequently turned the base into an ice rink and skated around it until the other Autobots came back.\n\nShe and Jack scouted out Franklin High School when schools in the region began unexpectedly exploding. It paid off when MECH turned up, however while Arcee was on the comm to Optimus, Jack sneaked inside the school. Arcee crashed inside to rescue him from MECH, though he insisted on following the baddies up to the roof. Silas got away anyway, and Arcee had to get Jack off the burning building. After the President of the United States was kidnapped, the Autobots traced the culprit, Starscream, to the Grand Canyon. Bumblebee and Arcee teamed up to take out the cannons manned by Vehicons that Starscream had brought along.\n\nArcee and Bulkhead headed to Zhejiang Province, China after the Autobots lost contact with Optimus Prime. They found Knock Out and a bunch of Vehicons feeding Optimus's body into a crusher but were overcome by the Decepticons before they could rescue him. Luckily Optimus came to his senses in time. After Miko was kidnapped by MECH agent Novo, Arcee joined the hunt to find her.\n\nArcee was bemused by Jack's demonstration of bobbing for apples. She was on the team which visited the Deep Driller oil platform and encountered General Madison] and his men. After ending up underneath Bulkhead, she managed to trick two of the soldiers in robotic battle suits into shooting each other. When Bulkhead went missing, Arcee searched in vain until Miko managed to work out he was on the Decepticon ship. Arcee was subsequently part of the mission to rescue their friend. Arcee took part in a battle against the Decepticons in The Wave.\n\nFollowing a TV studio takeover by Knock Out and Breakdown, Arcee came along on the mission as backup. She took to the shadows, and once Optimus had rescued the other hostages, Arcee rescued Chuck Chuckles and took down the two Decepticons herself.\n\nArcee occasionally takes time out from defending the universe and protecting the planet Earth in disguise to answer fan mail. In every issue, Arcee gets her own segment (sometimes with Megatron) to comment on the readers' fan mail and/or fan-art they sent them.\n\nArcee tracked Ripclaw to the Canadian Rockies. Rather than attack directly, she leaked the coordinates to the Decepticons in the hope they would deal with the problem.\n\nArcee was a regularly appearing character in the \"Transformers: Prime\" animated series. Arcee was a participant in the Great War and originally was partnered with Tailgate. During one mission, she talked to Tailgate on comm before being captured by Airachnid for interrogation. Arcee was tied up and refused to talk. To try to make her talk, Airachnid captured Tailgate and threatened to kill him. When she still didn't talk, Airachnid slaughtered him before her very eyes. After Tailgate was killed, Arcee was saved by Bumblebee and Cliffjumper. She began working alone and distancing herself from others to cope with her grief.\n\nArcee was captured by Starscream and taken captive alongside fellow Autobot Cliffjumper. She claimed to have never met him before and when Starscream said he would kill Cliffjumper if she did not cooperate, Arcee showed little to no concern about him. Starscream took the two Autobots to Shockwave, who was on Cybertron. Shockwave used a cortical psychic patch to get the Intel, but the two managed to escape before he could kill them. They raced into a Space Bridge and teamed up with Optimus Prime. Cliffjumper and Arcee became partners at this time.\n\nIn \"Darkness Rising: Part 1\", three years later, the Decepticons returned, killing Cliffjumper. Arcee was devastated at his loss. To cope, she went for a drive. She ended up having to protect a young human boy named Jack Darby from two Vehicons. Arcee was quickly joined by Bumblebee in the fight and they had a difficult time defeating them, until Bulkhead arrived. After returning to the base, Arcee was ordered by Optimus to pickup Jack from his school. After talking to him briefly, the two were seen by a girl named Miko Nakadai. She took the two back to the base.\n\nIn \"Darkness Rising: Part 2\", Arcee went with Optimus, Bumblebee and Bulkhead to investigate the possibility of Cliffjumper still being alive. She and the other Autobots uncovered a Decepticon Energon mine and were shot at by the antagonistic robots. Arcee went ahead to find Cliffjumper, but discovered only his body, revived into a mindless zombie and mutilated. Realizing that he was lost, she and the other Autobots left.\n\nIn \"Darkness Rising: Part 3\", Arcee went out on patrol, after Optimus told her she was in charge of the base while he was with Ratchet, because she didn't want to babysit the kids. She took Bumblebee with her, leaving Bulkhead in charge of the kids. Arcee and Bumblebee drove around, before being contacted by Bulkhead. She was forced to go to Bulkhead's location after she found out the Decepticons had captured Agent Fowler (and that Miko had sneaked along with Bulkhead).\n\nIn \"Darkness Rising: Part 4\", Arcee got on the Nemesis, along with Bumblebee. The two aided Bulkhead in defeating several Vehicons and promised to come back for the humans before the three went off to confront Starscream and rescue Fowler. Arcee pointed a gun pointblank at Starscream's head, as the Decepticon had Bumblebee and Bulkhead next to him, armed as well. But the Decepticon still managed to escape. Arcee rescued Fowler with the others, came back for the humans and escaped the Nemesis. Arcee watched as Jack refused to participate anymore in the endangerment of his life and others and left the Autobot base.\n\nIn \"Darkness Rising: Part 5\", despite her demeanor with him, Arcee could not stand to see Jack go and parked at his job, waiting for him. She explained to him that she couldn't leave him so soon after Cliffjumper's death. Arcee went out into space with Bumblebee, Bulkhead and Optimus to fight off Megatron in space. Before he was presumed dead, Arcee was shot by Megatron and taken back to the base. She survived the blast, much to the suspense of Jack and the other Autobots.\n\nIn \"Masters and Students\", Arcee helped Jack with his science project, until Ratchet decided to get involved. In \"Scrapheap\", Arcee went with Optimus Prime to the Arctic to investigate. After determining there was nothing, she and Optimus tried to contact Ratchet back at the base, but could not. She started to rest, before Optimus warned her not to. Arcee tried to blame Bulkhead and reminded Optimus of the time Bulkhead first arrived on Earth, but Optimus reminded her that Bulkhead, even though he was clumsy, was a great help to the team. Just as the two were about to freeze to death, Scraplets were launched from the base. Before the Scraplets could get to Arcee and Optimus, they froze and the two were allowed to get back into the base.\n\nIn \"Con Job\", she, Bulkhead and Bumblebee aided Wheeljack in defeating Decepticons try to stop him from reaching the other Autobots. She introduced herself to him and watched as he met Optimus. After it was revealed that the real Wheeljack was captured by Starscream and the one who arrived at the base was really Makeshift, she tried to attack him with the others before Wheeljack arrived at the base and attacked him.\n\nIn \"Convoy\", Arcee went with Optimus, Bumblebee and Bulkhead to transport D.N.G.S. While transporting the military based object, the four were attacked by several MECH soldiers. she and the others were attacked by several Vehicons. The resulting fight inadvertently revealed their existence to MECH.\n\nIn \"Deus Ex Machina\", after Bulkhead accidentally destroyed a painting of an artifact, Arcee asked at the base how the Decepticons could search for an artifact when they had no idea where it was before being told by Raf that they could simply use the internet. Arcee fought alongside the rest of the Autobots against newly arrived Decepticons Breakdown and Knock Out. She and Bumblebee planned to attack the two at the same time, before they were forced to crash into each other by Knock Out. She, Bumblebee and Optimus Prime came to Bulkhead's aid after he single-handedly defeated the two and Starscream later on.\n\nIn \"Speed Metal\", as Arcee and Jack were leaving school, they encountered Sierra, who asked if she could take Jack up on his offer of a ride. They were interrupted by Vince, who challenged Jack to a race. Arcee reminded her companion of the rules, however when Vince made disparaging remarks about her motorcycle mode, she decided that he needed to be taught a lesson. Arcee and Jack completely smoked Vince at racing, though she made Jack swear not to tell any of the other Autobots. When Jack agreed to another race, Arcee flatly refused to take part, and later found out he'd talked Bumblebee into helping him instead. Furious, she dragged Bulkhead out to help her find Jack and Bumblebee, only to reach them just as Knock Out was abducting Vince. The three Autobots tracked the Decepticons to a storage facility, where Arcee attempted unsuccessfully to retrieve Vince from Knock Out, and ended up chasing the Con. She was unable to catch him, but Optimus turned up to lend a hand and rescue the human, and he demanded an explanation from his ashamed soldiers. Afterwards, Arcee was willing to allow Jack to give Sierra a ride, but just once.\n\nIn \"Predatory\", Arcee and Jack went on recon together. Arcee then saw a ship and realized that the ship was that of Airachnid. When she was confronted by Airachnid, Arcee tried to fight, but was tied up by Airachnid's webs. She tried to convince Jack to leave her behind. Arcee eventually managed to break free using her motorcycle mode, and caught up with Jack in time to save him by delivering a brutal beating to Airachnid, who managed to flee underground. Arcee was left with a new respect for how Jack had handled the situation, and was happy to call him her partner.\n\nIn \"Sick Mind\", after Optimus was infected by Cybonic plague, Arcee and Bumblebee GroundBridged aboard the Nemesis to find a cure. They found Megatron's body in stasis lock. Arcee and Bumblebee used a cortical psychic to search Megatron's brain for the cure. Arcee did the attaching, while Bumblebee went into Megatron's mind. Starscream discovered their hiding place, but luckily, just as he did, Bumblebee found the formula, so Arcee disconnected him and they both GroundBridged out of there.\n\nIn \"Out Of His Head\", Arcee, Bulkhead, and Optimus went after a telescope lens that Starscream had stolen to melt a glacier and gain the energon underneath. Arcee and Bulkhead drove towards the Nemesis to distract the Decepticons from Optimus. The two fought Breakdown and the fight ended in a stalemate.\n\nIn \"Shadowzone\", Arcee and the other Autobots discovered a Dark Energon signal. Arcee acted as GroundBridge operator. She realized that the kids had gone with the others and called Optimus to tell him so. Optimus told her to reopen the GroundBridge, but the kids didn't make it through because Starscream's and the kids' GroundBridges crossed streams. Arcee Bridged the others back to base. She tried to call Jack, but was unable to. \nIn \"Operation: Breakdown\", Arcee and the others hear from Bulkhead on his mission, during which he was knocked unconscious and never discovered where Breakdown, his combatant, disappeared to. When they heard that MECH had captured him, Optimus told them they were going to rescue Breakdown. Arcee was confused and asked why, to which Optimus replied that they could not let Cybertronian technology fall into MECH's hands. She came on the rescue mission with the others.\n\nIn \"Crisscross\", Arcee was present when Jack's mom, June, grounded him from his motorcycle. She and Bumblebee were raiding an Energon mine when Jack called her to tell her that his mom was coming home early. She bridged back into the garage, but not quite in time. When June asked Jack for an explanation, to Arcee's dismay, he told her the truth. He asked her to show herself to June, but she didn't, not wanting to blow her cover. When she bridged over the next night, she beat June home, only to find a package addressed to Jack. When Jack came home, he opened it to find a message from Silas: They had captured June and told them to come to their coordinates as soon as possible. They arrived at an oil refinery, where MECH was stationed. They discovered Airachnid had teamed up with MECH to get even with them. Arcee was webbed up and shocked unconscious. When she awakened, she was lying on an operating table and MECH was about to open her up. She knocked their tools away and drove out. She found Jack, Airachnid, and June. Airachnid was about to kill June, but Arcee knocked her out of the way. The two fought each other for some time, until Arcee landed a hard punch and knocked her down, then covering her with cement. Despite this, Airachnid broke through it easily and webbed Arcee to the ground. But before she could do anything else, Agent Fowler arrived. Airachnid escaped, but not before she scanned Fowler's helicopter. Jack introduced June to Arcee, and the next day she drove both of them to base.\n\nIn \"Metal Attraction\", Arcee and Jack were about to go on a routine diagnostic, but June intervened, asking whether it was safe. Arcee grew increasingly irritated by June's questions and doubts, and when Bulkhead was sent to check out a magnetic disturbance, she volunteered to go along. The two found Airachnid and Breakdown fighting over a polarity gauntlet, a device that acts like a magnet. The two Autobots leapt into combat. After a few minutes' fighting, Bulkhead and Arcee overcame their opponents, but Breakdown grabbed the weapon and activated it. Warning him that it isn't a toy, Airachnid retreated underground, and Arcee and Bulkhead found themselves being dragged towards each other. The weapon hoisted them into the air before slamming them back against some rocks. The gauntlet magnetized Arcee to Bulkhead's back. Ratchet says their best bet to get Arcee unstuck is to get the gauntlet back. Bulkhead trudged up to the gas station to confront Airachnid, who had captured Breakdown and had the gauntlet. She told him to put his hands up and turn around. He did so, and Arcee promptly opened fire, managing to shoot the gauntlet out of Airachnid's hand. The device activated and dragged everything metal towards it. Breakdown was the first to touch it and shut the gauntlet down. Bulkhead and Arcee began awkwardly fighting Breakdown and Airachnid. Bulkhead managed to knock down Breakdown and turned to face Arachnid, but Breakdown used the gauntlet to drop an oil derrick on the Autobots. Pinned under an unconscious Bulkhead, Arcee was menaced by Airachnid. Fortunately, Bulkhead came around in time, and the pair stood up, now separated. Arcee attacked Breakdown, but Bulkhead found himself no match for Airachnid. She dragged Arcee to her, but Arcee got the upper hand and briefly used the gauntlet to polarize everyone. In the end, the Autobots triumphed and returned to base with the gauntlet, where Arcee received an apology from June for the earlier questioning.\n\nIn \"Rock Bottom\", Arcee was assigned to check out an old Energon mine with Bulkhead. When Miko ran into the mine, Arcee was persuaded by Jack to let him take a look inside too. She and Jack stumbled on Megatron and Starscream, and during the firefight that ensued, she shot Megatron's arm, causing him to blast the ceiling and causing a cave in. After the floor fell away, she lost track of the others, but eventually found the kids, and was able to rescue Bulkhead from Starscream. The two Autobots and the kids escaped the mine and briefly considered ending the Decepticons then and there before deciding it wasn't what Optimus would have done. Though Arcee still looked tempted.\n\nIn \"T.M.I\", Arcee accompanied Prime and Bumblebee as they tried to retrieve a Cybertronian data cylinder before the Decepticons did. During the fight she was tackled by Knock Out. Ultimately the Decepticons made off with the cylinder. Back at base, they discovered that Bulkhead had been zapped in the head with the data when Miko triggered its fail-safe. She went with Optimus when they tried to bargain for the cylinder.\n\nIn \"One Shall Fall\", when an ancient prophecy looked like it was imminent, Arcee and Bulkhead wondered how seriously they should take it. They accompanied Optimus to a military base to stop the Decepticons attacking it, but when they were faced with Raf being gravely injured, Optimus ordered Arcee to accompany him and Bumblebee back to base. While Ratchet fought to save the boy's life, Arcee had to keep Bumblebee calm.\n\nIn \"One Shall Rise: Part 1\", Arcee accompanied Bulkhead and Ratchet on a mission to rescue Prime from an area rich in Dark Energon, though at one point she appeared to become mesmerized by the sight of a volcano spewing Dark Energon. Once they got Optimus back to base, they set about investigating the cause of the natural disasters that had begun plaguing the planet, and realized that Unicron lay at the center of the Earth. Arcee and the other Autobots began checking out the sites of the tremors.\n\nIn \"One Shall Rise: Part 2\", though Optimus ordered the other Autobots to remain at base, Arcee, Bulkhead and Bumblebee joined him anyway. They fought increasingly larger stone Unicrons, until they encountered a colossal one that knocked Bulkhead and Bumblebee aside, then sent Arcee likewise tumbling along the ground. As it moved to crush Optimus underfoot, help came in the unlikely form of Megatron, who offered to help them fight Unicron. After they returned to base, Optimus gave the trio the choice of whether to accompany him and Megatron to Earth's core, and Arcee opted to go for Jack's sake. She, Bumblebee and Bulkhead greeted Megatron to the Autobot base by aiming their guns at him, and when they were ready to GroundBridge to their new destination, she insisted Megatron go first. Before long, they were standing within Earth's core.\n\nIn \"One Shall Rise: Part 3\", as the Autobots battled Unicron's antibodies, Arcee was briefly separated from the others, and had to ride one of the antibodies to catch up with them again. She, Bulkhead and Bumblebee remained outside Unicron's spark chamber to fight off the antibodies. After Unicron's defeat, they entered the chamber, only to discover that Optimus had lost his memories and that Megatron had tricked him into siding with the Decepticons.\n\nIn \"Orion Pax: Part 2 and 3\", Arcee acts as Jack's chaperone on Cybertron when the boy goes to retrieve the collective wisdom of the Primes from Vector Sigma, and holds off both an Insecticon and Megatron himself to allow for Optimus' return. Arcee would later be at Airachnid's mercy, only to be saved by Starscream, who then drove Airachnid away, before repaying his debt to Arcee for sparing him when he was at her mercy by releasing her.\n\nWhile waiting to hear from Bulkhead (who had become trapped aboard the Nemesis,) Ratchet picks up as unusual readings come from where they last encountered Airachnid and her Insecticon. Arcee join Optimus and Bumblebee to the location of the readings, where they find Airachnid sending her Insecticons to attack the Nemesis. They decide to take down Airachnid, but she orders her rear guard to attack them while she tries to escape. Arcee follows Airachnid, leaving Optimus and Bumblebee to deal with the Insecticons. Airachnid travels underground and Arcee follows her into a cavern that houses the Insecticon's now empty Stasis Pods. Airachnid tries to sneak up on Arcee, but she seeing Airachnid's reflection in one of the pods and dodges just in time. She manages to corner Airachnid who realizing she has lost, goads Arcee into making it hurt, as she would have done to Arcee. Despite having her hated enemy at her mercy, Arcee responds to Airachnid's goading by saying \"I'm not like you.\" Airachnid uses the opportunity to turn the tables on Arcee, but ends up landing on an empty Insecticon stasis pod which activates, trapping Airachnid in stasis lock. Arcee, Optimus, and Bumblebee transport the stasis pod holding Airachnid to their base for safekeeping. Optimus commends Arcee for her actions and better judgement.\n\nIn \"Flying Mind\", Arcee is one of the Autobots who attacks the Nemesis, but is put in stasis like the rest of them until the Nemesis is emptied of Dark Energon. In \"Tunnel Vision\", Arcee and Bumblebee are sent after the first relic from the Iacon Data Base which the ship was able to decode. Jack and Miko accompany them into New York, but they are separated later. Arcee and Bumblebee have a fight with Knock Out and his insecticon partner. Arcee was able to kill the Insecticon by tricking it into stepping on the third rail of the subway track. She and Bumblebee were able to obtain the relic, the Phase Shifter. In \"Hurt\", she, Jack, Bumblebee, and Miko victoriously return to base with the Phase Shifter, only to find Ratchet desperately trying to stabilize a critically injured Bulkhead. Arcee and the others learn of Bulkhead's ordeal with Tox-En and encounter with the Insecticon Hardshell. She tries to go after Miko when she runs off (being able to relate to what she is going through), but Optimus stops her saying she needs sometime alone.\n\nIn the episode \"New Recruit\", when the new Autobot Smokescreen arrives on Earth, Arcee does not trust him as she remembers when Makeshift infiltrated the base. In the episode \"Legacy\", Arcee is angered by Smokescreen's action that caused the Autobots to be seen by a human. When Optimus assigns Smokescreen to be tutored about living on Earth by Jack, Arcee shows great concern about his safety. Later, after being led astray by Soundwave with a decoy to distract the Autobots from the Star Saber. When Ratchet alerts them of the situation (in which Smokescreen and Jack were being attacked), Arcee rushes to Jack's aid and kills the Insecticons attacking him. After the battle in which Optimus obtains the Star Saber, Arcee is enraged at Smokescreen for putting Jack in danger.\n\nIn the episode \"Alpha; Omega\", Arcee learns from Optimus about the final four Iacon relics, the Omega Keys, which together have the power to revive Cybertron. At first, Arcee and the others are excited to return to their homeworld, but they realize that they do not want to leave because of their human friends. Arcee is sent to find the first Omega Key, and Smokescreen accompanies her. They find the key, but they discover Megatron, with the arm of a Prime and his new weapon, the Dark Star Saber. Arcee watches as Megatron seemingly kills Smokescreen, and allows her to live, to deliver Optimus the message to face him for the relic. But after the battle, Arcee sees that Smokescreen is alive, thanks to the Phase Shifter.\n\nIn \"Hard Knocks\", Arcee and Bumblebee go to retrieve the second Omega Key, but Knock Out attacks them with Soundwave's Resance Blaster. In \"Inside Job\", Arcee happily congratulates Smokescreen for getting two of the Omega Keys to the Autobots. When Starscream contacts the Autobots about the final Omega Key, Arcee is concerned whether or not they can trust Starscream. In \"Regeneration\", Arcee takes the Apex Armor with her when the Autobots return to Cybertron. With it she is able to defeat the Decepticons and retrieve the Omega Keys with the other Autobots. However, in \"Darkest Hour\", she and the others are forced to give the keys when Megatron threatens to expose the newly kidnapped children to Cybertron's toxic atmosphere. Megatron then tries to reformat Earth into a metallic planet like Cybertron with the Omega Lock forcing Optimus to destroy it with the Star Saber.\n\nIn the opening arc of the third season, \"Beast Hunters\", Arcee and Jack are on their own, trying to avoid the Decepticons. After a close encounter with the Decepticons, they escape and eventually find Optimus Prime's second-in-command, Ultra Magnus, who reveals that Arcee is one of five Autobot life signals that he detected on Earth. Eventually, they find Bulkhead, Wheeljack, Ratchet and Bumblebee, the last of whom has a new paint scheme created by reversing his colors. Arcee makes the remark that were she to do the same, she would be pink (a nod to the color scheme of her Generation 1 counterpart.) She later participates in the attack on Darkmount and retreats with the other Autobots after a recently upgraded Optimus Prime destroys the fortress.\n\nIn the episode \"Plus One\", Arcee is sent with Wheeljack after a Predacon remain. After the two defeat a group of Vehicons easily, Arcee talks with Wheeljack about his current problems with Ultra Magnus. She learns that Wheeljack's real problem was with Bulkhead as he has gone soft. She tells him that he'll always have the Wreckers as he knew them and also says not to push Bulkhead away, as if something were to happen to him, he'd never forgive himself, speaking from experience of losing two partners. After they get the Predacon spine, Arcee is contacted by Jack, who tells her that June and Fowler were captured. She and Wheeljack find Knock Out and pursue him. Arcee fights with the Insecticons, and tests her new powerful blaster on them. Knock Out escapes, but June and Fowler are saved.\n\nIn \"Deadlock\", the final episode, Arcee leads Stealth Team to storm the Omega Lock, where they are met by Starscream, who Arcee fights. After the Autobots defeat the Decepticons and restore Cybertron, she has to return to Cybertron to help rebuild. She has a heartfelt goodbye with Jack, telling him to keep in touch, and emotionally leaving afterwards.\n\nAfterwards, in the epilogue movie \"Predacons Rising\", she and the other Autobots-save Ratchet, who remained behind on Earth-return to Cybertron and witness Bumblebee's ceremony of promotion to the rank of warrior. Optimus and Wheeljack then depart to locate the long lost AllSpark, leaving Arcee and the others to safeguard Cybertron. Major trouble soon arrives in the form of new Predacons cloned by Shockwave and Starscream, as well as the return of Unicron in Megatron's resuscitated and upgraded body. Along with the other Autobots, Arcee participates in defending Primus from Unicron and his army of Terrorcons. She also has an exchange with Bumblebee in which she expresses her admiration of how much he's matured, and is complimented by him in turn. Unicron is defeated and the Decepticons are formally dissolved by a penitent Megatron, and Optimus Prime returns the AllSpark to Cybertron after becoming one with it to protect it from Unicron. Arcee and the others are thus left to watch as new life comes to Cybertron. \n\nOriginally, Arcee was going to team up with Airachnid after Megatron betrayed her however during the climax, Airachnid would've backstabbed her and resurrect her insecticons only for them to become savage and they devour the two of them. This was scrapped because it was deemed too dark.\n\nAlthough she doesn't appeared in the series, a picture of her shown and was along with the list of Autobots who were backlisted by the Decepticons disguised as the new High Council for being a supporter of Optimus Prime following the restoration of Cybertron after the Great War. In her picture, she resembles her G1 Counterpart but is still colored blue.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18317279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18317279", "title": "Archie and Me", "text": "Archie and Me\n\nArchie and Me was a comic book title published by Archie comics from 1964 to 1987. Most issues and covers focused on the interaction of Archie Andrews and the school principal, Mr. Weatherbee. This suggests that Mr. Weatherbee is the \"Me\" mentioned in the title, whereas the \"Me\" in \"Reggie and Me\" and \"Betty and Me\" appeared to refer to Archie Andrews himself.\n\n"}
{"id": "8212230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8212230", "title": "Artistic billiards", "text": "Artistic billiards\n\nArtistic billiards, sometimes called fantasy billiards or fantaisie classique, is a carom billiards discipline in which players compete at performing 76 preset shots of varying difficulty. Each set shot has a maximum point value assigned for perfect execution, ranging from a four-point maximum for lowest level difficulty shots, and climbing to an 11-point maximum for shots deemed highest in difficulty level. There are a total of 500 points available to a player, representing the combined value of a perfect score on all 76 shots, although not all games are played with the full shot catalogue. The governing body of the sport is the Confédération International de Billard Artistique (CIBA).\n\nEach shot in an artistic billiards match is played from a well-defined position (in some venues within a two millimetre tolerance), and each shot must unfold in an established manner. Players are allowed three attempts at each shot. In general, the shots making up the game – even four-point shots – require a high degree of skill, devoted practice and specialized knowledge to perform. Such shots often require extremes in shot-making techniques that are not often employed in other games, such as , , precision multiple-rail , and combined with outlandish use of (). \nPlayers may use up to twenty separate cues providing different performance functions. For example, performing massés may require a cue with a very large diameter terminus and a specialized , while jumping may require a short, with a flat (rather than rounded), very hard and also wider cue tip than a playing cue. Some shots may require the use of props such as a small placed precisely on the and around which the player is required to make the pass on a designated side \"(see Figure A10 illustration)\". For the most part, top artistic billiard players specialize in the game to the exclusion of all others.\n\nWorld title competition first started in 1986 and required the use of ivory balls. However, this requirement was dropped in 1990. The highest score ever achieved in world competition was 374, by the Frenchman Jean Reverchon in 1992, while the highest score in competition overall is 427 set by the Belgian Walter Bax in 2006. The game is played predominantly in Western Europe, especially in France, Belgium and the Netherlands. The game employs a specialized vocabulary, chiefly derived from French words, encompassing many terms that have no analogues in other cue sports disciplines. Some examples are \"coup fouetté\" (\"whip shot\"; a type of force follow); \"massé coulé\" (a massé shot with follow) and \"piqué\" (describes either a massé shot with no english, or a shot in which the cue stick is steeply angled, but not held quite as vertical as it is in full massé).\n\nArtistic pool trick shot competitions on pocket billiards tables, inspired by artistic billiards, began in 1993 in the US at an amateur level and in 2000 professionally and internationally, featuring fifty-six pre-set shots to attempt.\n\n"}
{"id": "42573989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42573989", "title": "Bambang Sumantri", "text": "Bambang Sumantri\n\nIn Javanese traditional puppet theater, Bambang Sumantri (also known as Raden Sumantri) is a stock character — specifically, a knight with a handsome face and destructive weapons, Cakrabaskara. Bambang was the eldest son of Begawan Suwandagni at the Hermitage Ardisekar. Rishi Suwandagni still cousins with Ramaparasu son of Rishi Jamadagni. Bambang Sumantri's brother is Bambang Sukrasana..\n"}
{"id": "17016522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17016522", "title": "Beyond the Limits (film)", "text": "Beyond the Limits (film)\n\nBeyond the Limits is a 2003 horror-thriller film directed by Olaf Ittenbach and stars Xenia Seeberg, Darren Shahlavi and Timo Rose.\n\nA young reporter interviews a gravedigger, Vivian Frederick, who tells her about the recently deceased mobster Robert Downing and the attempt to steal an ancient relic with occult powers that ends in a bloodbath. The relic, itself, has been here since the Middle Ages and preserves a terrible secret.\n\nOlaf Ittenbach won 2003 the Golden Glibb at Weekend of Fear in Nuremberg, Germany for his film.\n\nThe film was released on 23 March 2003 as the Direct-to-video project.\n\n"}
{"id": "1519160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1519160", "title": "BioShock", "text": "BioShock\n\nBioShock is a first-person shooter video game developed by 2K Boston (later Irrational Games) and 2K Australia, and published by 2K Games. The first game in the \"Bioshock\" series, it was released for Microsoft Windows and Xbox 360 platforms in August 2007; a PlayStation 3 port by Irrational, 2K Marin, 2K Australia and Digital Extremes was released in October 2008, and an OS X port by Feral Interactive in October 2009. A scaled down mobile version was developed by IG Fun, which contained the first few levels of the game.\n\nThe game's concept was developed by Irrational's creative lead, Ken Levine, and incorporates ideas by 20th century dystopian and utopian thinkers such as Ayn Rand, George Orwell, and Aldous Huxley, as well as historical figures such as John D. Rockefeller. The game is considered a spiritual successor to the \"System Shock\" series, on which many of Irrational's team including Levine had worked previously.\n\n\"BioShock\" is set in 1960. The player guides the protagonist, Jack, after his airplane crashes in the ocean near the bathysphere terminus that leads to the underwater city of Rapture. Built by the business magnate Andrew Ryan, the city was intended to be an isolated utopia, but the discovery of ADAM, a genetic material which can be used to grant superhuman powers, initiated the city's turbulent decline. Jack tries to find a way to escape, fighting through hordes of ADAM-obsessed enemies, and the iconic, deadly Big Daddies, while engaging with the few sane humans that remain and eventually learning of Rapture's past. The player, as Jack, is able to defeat foes in a number of ways by using weapons, utilizing plasmids that give unique powers, and by turning Rapture's own defenses against them.\n\n\"BioShock\" includes elements of role-playing games, giving the player different approaches in engaging enemies such as by stealth, as well as moral choices of saving or killing characters; additionally, the game and biopunk theme borrow concepts from the survival horror genre.\n\n\"BioShock\" received critical acclaim and was particularly praised by critics for its morality-based storyline, immersive environments, and its unique setting, and is considered to be one of the greatest video games of all time and a demonstration of video game as an art form. It received several \"Game of the Year\" awards from different media outlets, including from BAFTA, \"Game Informer\", Spike TV, and \"X-Play\".\n\nSince its release a direct sequel has been released, \"BioShock 2\" by 2K Marin, as well as a third game titled \"BioShock Infinite\" by Irrational Games. A remastered version of the original game was released on Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 4 and Xbox One on September 13, 2016, as part of \"\", along with \"BioShock 2\" and \"Infinite\". A standalone version of \"BioShock Remastered\" was released for macOS by Feral Interactive on August 22, 2017.\n\n\"BioShock\" is set in 1960 in the underwater city of Rapture; the city's history is mostly revealed via audio recordings the player can collect during the game. Rapture was planned and constructed in the 1940s by Objectivist business magnate Andrew Ryan who wanted to create a utopia for society's elite to flourish outside of government control and \"petty morality\". Scientific progress greatly expanded, including the discovery of the genetic material \"ADAM\" created by sea slugs on the ocean floor. ADAM allows its users to alter their DNA to grant them super-human powers like telekinesis and pyrokinesis. To protect Rapture, Ryan imposed a law that no contact with the surface world was allowed.\n\nDespite the apparent utopia, class distinctions grew, and former gangster and businessman Frank Fontaine used his influence of the lower class to plan a coup over Rapture. Fontaine profited by creating black market routes with the surface world, and together with Dr. Brigid Tenenbaum, created a cheap plasmid industry by mass-producing ADAM through the implantation of the slugs in the stomachs of orphaned girls, nicknamed \"Little Sisters\". Fontaine used his plasmid-enhanced army to attack Ryan, but reportedly was killed in the battle. Ryan took the opportunity to seize his assets including the plasmid factories. In the months that followed, a second figure named Atlas rose to speak for the lower class, creating further strife. Atlas led attacks on the factories housing the Little Sisters, and Ryan countered by creating \"Big Daddies\", plasmid-enhanced humans surgically grafted into giant lumbering diving suits who were psychologically compelled to protect the Little Sisters at all costs. Ryan also created his own army of plasmid-enhanced soldiers, named \"Splicers\", which he controlled using pheromones distributed through Rapture's air system.\n\nTension came to a head on New Year's Eve of 1958, when Atlas ordered an all-out attack on Ryan. The battle left many dead, and the few sane survivors barricaded themselves away. What once was a beautiful utopia had fallen into a crumbling dystopia. Some of the events described above are revisited and expanded upon in the downloadable expansion \"\", which takes place in Rapture during the latter months of 1958 and leads up to Atlas' assault on Ryan's forces.\n\nIn 1960, at the start of the game, the protagonist, Jack, is a passenger on a plane that goes down in the Atlantic Ocean. As the only survivor, Jack makes his way to a nearby lighthouse that houses a bathysphere terminal that takes him to Rapture.\n\nJack is contacted by Atlas via radio, and is guided to safety from the Splicers and the perils of the run down city. Atlas requests Jack's help in stopping Ryan, directing him to a docked bathysphere where he claims Ryan has trapped his family. When Jack encounters a wandering Little Sister and its fallen Big Daddy, Atlas urges Jack to kill the Little Sister to harvest her ADAM for himself; Dr. Tenenbaum overhears this and intercepts Jack before he harms the Little Sister, urging him to spare the child and any other Little Sisters he encounters, providing him with a plasmid that would force the sea slug out of her body. Jack eventually works his way to the bathysphere, but Ryan destroys it before Jack can reach it. Enraged, Atlas directs Jack towards Ryan's mansion through Ryan's army of Splicers and Big Daddies. At times, Jack is forced to travel through areas controlled by Ryan's allies that have now become deranged, such as the mad doctor J.S. Steinman or Sander Cohen, a former musician and art dealer who now takes enjoyment in watching the death and misery of others.\n\nEventually, Jack enters Ryan's personal office, where Ryan is patiently waiting for Jack by casually playing golf. Ryan explains he fully knew of Atlas' plan, and explains that Jack is his illegitimate child, taken from his mother by Fontaine who placed him out of Ryan's reach on the surface, and genetically modified to age rapidly. Fontaine had planned to use Jack as a trump card in his war with Ryan, bringing him back to Rapture when the time was right; Jack's genetics would allow him to access systems such as the bathysphere that Ryan had locked out long ago. With no place to run, Ryan is willing to accept death by his own free will, quoting one of his own principles: \"A man chooses. A slave obeys.\" He asks Jack \"would you kindly\" kill him with the golf club, and Jack is compelled to do so. As Ryan dies, Jack becomes aware that the phrase \"would you kindly\" has preceded many of Atlas' commands as a hypnotic trigger forcing him to follow Atlas' orders without question; a flashback reveals Jack himself was responsible for crashing his plane near the lighthouse after reading a letter containing the trigger phrase. Atlas reveals himself as Fontaine, having used the Atlas alias to hide himself while providing a figure for the lower class to rally behind. Without Ryan, Fontaine takes over control of Ryan's systems, and leaves Jack to die as he releases hostile security drones into Ryan's locked office.\n\nJack is saved by Dr. Tenenbaum and the Little Sisters who had previously been rescued. Dr. Tenenbaum helps Jack to remove Fontaine's conditioned responses, including one that would have stopped his heart. With the help of the Little Sisters, Jack is able to make his way to Fontaine's lair to face him. Fontaine, being cornered by Jack, injects himself with a large amount of ADAM, becoming an inhuman monster. Jack is aided by the Little Sisters in draining the ADAM in Fontaine's body and eventually killing him.\n\nThe ending depends on how the player interacted with the Little Sisters:\n\n\"BioShock\" is a first-person shooter with role-playing game customization and stealth elements, and is similar to \"System Shock 2\". The player takes the role of Jack as he is guided through Rapture towards various objectives. The player collects various weapons and plasmids as they work their way through enemy forces. The player can switch between one active weapon and one active plasmid at any time, allowing them to find combination attacks that can be effective against certain enemies, such as first shocking a Splicer then striking them down with a wrench. Weapons are limited by ammunition that the player collects; many weapons have secondary ammo types that can be used instead for additional benefits, such as bullets that inflict fire damage. Plasmid use consumes a serum called EVE which can be restored using EVE syringes collected by the player. The player has a health meter that decreases when they take damage. The player can restore their health with medical packs found throughout Rapture. If the player's health reduces to zero, they will be regenerated at the last Vita-Chamber that they passed with limited amounts of health and EVE. A patch for the game allows players to disable these Vita-Chambers, requiring players to restart a saved game if the character dies.\n\nThe game provides several options for players to face challenges. In addition to direct combat, the player can use plasmids to lure enemies into traps or to turn enemies against each other, or employ stealth tactics to avoid detection by hostiles including the security systems and turrets. The player can hack into any of Rapture's automated systems; the hacking process is done via a mini-game similar to \"Pipe Mania\" where the player must connect two points on opposite sides of a grid with a limited set of piping within a fixed amount of time, with failure to complete in time costing health and potentially sounding alarms. Early in the game, the player is given a research camera; by taking photographs of enemies, the player will cumulatively gain knowledge about the individual foes which translates into attack boosts and other benefits when facing that enemy type in the future.\n\nThe player collects money by exploring Rapture and from the bodies of defeated foes; this money can be used at vending machines to restock on ammunition, health and EVE, and other items; like security cameras, vending machines can also be hacked to reduce the costs of items from it. The player will also receive rewards in the form of ADAM from completing some tasks, as well as from either saving or killing the Little Sisters after defeating their Big Daddy guardian. ADAM is used to purchase new plasmids from Gatherer's Garden machines scattered around Rapture. In addition to plasmids, the player will also collect and buy tonics that provide passive bonuses, such as increasing Jack's strength, using EVE more efficiently, or making Jack more resistant to damage. The player can only have a limited number of plasmids and tonics active at any time, and can swap between the various plasmids and tonics at certain stations located throughout Rapture.\n\nLead developer Ken Levine had created Irrational Games in 1997 out of former members from Looking Glass Studios. Their first game was \"System Shock 2\", a sequel to Looking Glass's \"System Shock\", and was met with critical success, though it did not prove a financial one. Levine had attempted to pitch a sequel to \"System Shock 2\" to Electronic Arts, but the publisher rejected the idea based on the poor performance of the earlier game. Irrational would proceed to develop other games, including \"Freedom Force\", \"\", the cancelled title \"Deep Cover\", and the completed \"The Lost\" which was never released due to legal complications, but at this point, Levine wanted to return to a game in the same style as \"System Shock 2\", a more free-form game with strong narrative.\n\nIn 2002, the team had come up with a core gameplay mechanic idea based on three groups of forces; drones that would carry a desirable resource, protectors that would guard the drones, and harvesters that would attempt to take the resource from the drones; these would eventually bear out as the Little Sisters, Big Daddies, and splicers in the final game, but at the time of the concept, there was no set theme. They began working on creating a setting for the game as to be able to pitch the idea to game publishers. A 2002 demonstration version was based on the Unreal Engine 2 for the first Xbox. This demonstration was primarily set aboard a space station overtaken with genetically-mutated monsters; the main character was Carlos Cuello, a \"cult deprogrammer\"—a person charged with rescuing someone from a cult, and mentally and psychologically readjusting that person to a normal life. Ken Levine cites an example of what a cult deprogrammer does: \"[There are] people who hired people to [for example] deprogram their daughter who had been in a lesbian relationship. They kidnap her and reprogram her, and it was a really dark person, and that was the [kind of] character that you were.\" This story would have been more political in nature, with the character hired by a Senator. The team collectively agreed that this game was not what they had set out to make, and were having trouble finding a publisher. They considered ending development, but as news about their efforts to make a spiritual successor to \"System Shock 2\" began to appear in gaming magazines and websites, the team opted to continue development, performing a full revamp the game.\n\nBy 2004, 2K Games, a subsidiary of Take-Two Interactive, offered to publish the game primarily based on the drone/protector/harvester concept, giving Irrational the freedom to develop the story and setting. By this point, the story and setting had changed significantly, taking place in an abandoned World War II-era Nazi laboratory that had been recently unearthed by 21st century scientists. Over the decades, the genetic experiments within the labs had gradually formed themselves into an ecosystem centered on the three groups. This version of game included many of the gameplay elements that would remain in the final \"BioShock\", themselves influenced by concepts from \"System Shock 2\". These elements included the use of plasmids and EVE, the need to use stealth or other options to deal with automated security systems, direction through the environment from a non-player character relayed over a radio, and story elements delivered through audio recordings and \"ghosts\" of deceased characters.\n\nWhile the gameplay with the 2004 reveal was similar to what resulted in the released version of \"BioShock\", both design and story underwent changes, consistent with what Levine says was then-Irrational Games' guiding principle of putting game design first. These areas were also issued due to some internal strife and lack of communication between the various teams within Irrational, part of the result of having to expand the team from six to sixty members for the scope of the project. The environment was considered bland, and there were difficulties by the team's artists to come up with a consistent vision to meet the level designer's goals. A critical junction was a short experiment performed by level designer Jean Paul LeBreton and artist Hoagy de la Plante, setting themselves aside to co-develop a level that would later become part of the \"Tea Garden\" area in the released game, which Levine would later use as a prime example of a \"great \"BioShock\" space\", emphasizing the need for departments to work together. Levine also found that the cyberpunk theme had been overplayed considering their initial reject from Electronic Arts for \"System Shock 3\", leading towards the underwater setting of Rapture.\n\nThe thematic core of \"BioShock\" was born when Levine was walking at Rockefeller Center near the GE Building in New York City. He saw the uniqueness of the art deco styling of the building along with imagery around the building such as the statue of Atlas near it, and recognized that these were spaces that had not been experienced in the first-player shooter genre. The history of the Rockefeller Center also fed into the story concept; Levine noted how the Center had started construction prior to the Great Depression of the 1920s; when the primary financiers had pulled out, John D. Rockefeller backed the remaining construction to complete the project himself, as stated by \"Edge\" magazine \"a great man building an architectural triumph against all the odds\". The history of Rapture and the character of Andrew Ryan is loosely based on Rockefeller's story. He also considered that many of the characters of Rapture were all people who were oppressed once before in the lives and now free of that oppression, have turned around and become the oppressors, a fact he felt resonated throughout human history.\n\nAt this point in the development, the backdrop of Rapture had been fleshed out, but they had yet to come on how to represent the drones, protectors, and harvesters from their original game idea. The Big Daddy concept as the protector class was developed early in the process, but the team had yet to reach a satisfying design for the drones, having used several possible designs including bugs and dogs in wheelchairs. The team wanted to have the player care for the drones in some way and create pathos for these characters. The idea of using little girls came out of brainstorming, but was controversial and shocking within the team at first, recognizing that they could easily be killed and make the game more horrific in the style of \"Night Trap\". However, as Levine worked on the story, he started to incorporate the ideas of dystopian and utopian thinkers from the twentieth century, including Ayn Rand, Aldous Huxley, and George Orwell, and considered their ideas \"fascinating\". He brought in the ideas of Objectivism that Rand primarily outlined in the book \"Atlas Shrugged\", that man should be driven by selfishness and not altruism, and used this to inform the philosophy behind the city of Rapture and Andrew Ryan's work, tied in with his previous observations on Rockefeller and his writings. This was extended to the use of the little girls as drones (now Little Sisters), particularly the question whether the player should try to save the girls or harvest the ADAM for their own benefit. 2K Games expressed concern about the initial mechanic of the Little Sisters, where the player would actively prey on the Little Sister, which would have alerted a Big Daddy and setting up the fight with the player. This approach did not sit well with Levine, and 2K Games asserted that they would not ship a game \"where the player gets punished for doing the right thing\". They altered this approach where the Little Sisters would be invulnerable until the player had dealt with their Big Daddy, though LeBreton considered this \"a massive kludge\" into the game's fiction. The idea of creating the Little Sisters and presenting the player with this choice became a critical part of the game's appeal to the larger gaming market though would still be met with criticism from some outlets. Levine desired only to have one ending to the game, something that would have left the fate of the characters \"much more ambiguous\", but publisher pressure directed them to craft multiple endings depending on the choice of harvesting Little Sisters. Levine also noted that \"it was never my intention to do two endings for the game. It sort of came very late and it was something that was requested by somebody up the food chain from me.\"\n\nOther elements came into the story design. Levine had an interest in \"stem cell research and the moral issues that go around <nowiki>[it]</nowiki>\". In regard to artistic influences, Levine cited the books \"Nineteen Eighty-Four\" and \"Logan's Run\", representing societies that have \"really interesting ideas screwed up by the fact that we're people\". The idea of the mind control used on Jack was offered by LeBreton, inspired by films like \"The Manchurian Candidate\", as a means to provide a better reason to limit the player's actions as opposed to the traditional use of locked doors to prevent them exploring areas they should not. The team had agreed that Jack's actions would be controlled by a key phrase but struggled with coming up with one that would not reveal Atlas' true nature. Levine happened upon \"Would you kindly\" after working on marketing materials for the game that asked the reader hypothetical questions such as \"Would you kill people, even innocent people, to survive?\", later working that phrase into the first script for the game.\n\nNumerous tensions within the team and from publisher 2K Games continued during the development process. According to LeBreton, Levine was distrustful of some of the more egotistical newer hires and was often arguing with them to enforce his vision of \"BioShock\". 2K Games was concerned with the growing budget for the title, and told Levine to market the title more as a first-person shooter rather than the first-person shooter/role player game hybrid they set out for. Near the targeted release date, Levine ordered the team into round-the-clock development, creating more strife in the team. Paul Hellquist, the game's lead designer, was often omitted from key design meetings, which he later recounted was due to his contrary nature to Levine, questioning several of his choices; he used his frustration to put into the design efforts for the Medical Pavilion level that he was in charge of at that time. Near the anticipated completion date, 2K decided to give Irrational another three months to polish up the game, extending the current crunch time the studio was already under. This left some hard-to-discover bugs and issues in the game undiscovered. One such case was an apparent Easter egg found in the remastered version in 2018, where under certain conditions, the player can end up looking at an object with the description \"Paul Hellquist did not do his Job\". Both Levine and Chris Kline, the game's lead programmer confirmed the message was a cheeky jab at Hellquist left as a debugging message; Kline and Hellquist were developing the systems to show descriptions of objects to players when looked at, and Hellquist offered to complete all the necessary descriptions in game; to jokingly help prod Hellquist along, Kline put \"Paul Hellquist did not do his Job\" as the default message within the executable code. While the code message was changed for the original release, the remastered version likely used a pre-final version of the \"BioShock\" code, according to Kline. Hellquist took the revelation in good humor and tweeted that other Easter eggs should have been added to the game to display, \"If you are enjoying this, Paul Hellquist did his job.\"\n\nA critical playtest of the game occurred in January 2007, where initial feedback from the players was mostly negative, including issues of the setting being too dark, having no idea where to go, and distrusting Atlas, who at the time was voiced in a southern drawl, described as a \"lecherous Colonel Sanders\". The team took this criticism to heart, revamping several elements during those extra months such as improving the lighting, implementing a quest marker, and using an Irish voice for Atlas to make him sound more trustworthy. During another late-stage playtest with the title \"ninety-nine percent\" complete according to Levine, the playtesters did not like the game at all as they felt no connection to the player-character Jack, and the person overseeing the tests told Levine that the game was likely to be a failure. At this point, \"BioShock\" did not have many cutscenes, as Levine was ideologically opposed to them. However, the following day, Levine and the lead group came up with a \"cheap\" way to correct this, by adding the initial cut scene within the plane and the subsequent plane crash, as this helped to set the time frame, place the player in the role of the character, and alluded to the \"would you kindly\" line later in the game. Levine likened this approach to the initial aircraft crash at the onset of the television show \"Lost\" to quickly establish character and setting.\n\nThe game was successfully released in August 2007 with a final budget of about $25 million. In a 2016 interview, Levine felt that the game could have used about six more months of development to improve the gun combat system and fix lagging issues that occurred during the final boss fight. Despite the critical success of the title, many of those on the team would leave Irrational to pursue other projects due to late development strife that occurred.\n\nIn an interview in 2018, Levine had come to recognize that \"BioShock\" reflected several Jewish themes, though this was not intentional. Levine, who considers himself culturally Jewish but does not follow Judaism, had grown up in New Jersey, but spent much of his childhood time with his father who worked in Manhattan's Diamond District and visiting his grandparents in Queens, a neighborhood with a large proportion of Eastern European immigrants. Thus, Levine was exposed to much of the Jewish culture that flourished in the area following World War II, and understood some of the anxiety Jewish people faced. In the 2018 interview, Levine recognized several of the characters, including Andrew Ryan (who was inspired by Ayn Rand who was also Jewish), Sander Cohen, and Brigid Tenenbaum, were written all as Jewish, and all seeking to escape a world they felt they did not fit into by going to Rapture; Levine said \"'There's literal displacement and then there's a feeling of not fitting in, of 'I don't really belong here'. I think Jews are always going to feel a little bit like they don't belong wherever they are. There's always that 'what if we have to flee' mentality.\"\n\n\"BioShock\" uses a heavily modified Unreal Engine 2.5 with some of the advanced technologies from Unreal Engine 3. Irrational had previous experience with modifying and expanding on the Unreal Engine in \"SWAT 4\", and continued this advancement of the engine within \"BioShock\". One major improvement they added was improved water effects, given the nature of the game's setting, hiring a programmer and artist just to focus on the water effects. This graphical enhancement has been lauded by critics, with GameSpot saying, \"Whether it's standing water on the floor or sea water rushing in after an explosion, it will blow you away every time you see it.\" \"BioShock\" also uses the Havok Physics engine that allows for an enhancement of in-game physics, the integration of ragdoll physics, and allows for more lifelike movement by elements of the environment. The Windows version was built to work in both Direct3D 10 (DirectX 10) and DirectX 9, with the DirectX 10 version supporting additional water and particle effects.\n\n\"BioShock\" contains both licensed music and an original score. The licensed music from the 1940s and 1950s can be heard playing on phonograph throughout Rapture. In total, 30 licensed songs can be heard throughout the game. The original score was composed by Garry Schyman. He works his pieces to mesh well with the chosen licensed music as to keep the same feel, while also trying to bring out something that was \"eerie, frightening and at times beautiful\" to mesh well with Rapture's environments.\n\n2K Games released an orchestral score soundtrack on their official homepage on August 24, 2007. Available in MP3 format, the score—composed by Garry Schyman—contains 12 of the 22 tracks from the game. The Limited Edition version of the game came with \"The Rapture EP\" remixes by Moby and Oscar The Punk. The three remixed tracks on the CD include \"Beyond the Sea\", \"God Bless the Child\" and \"Wild Little Sisters\"; the original recordings of these songs are in the game. \"BioShock\" score was released on a vinyl LP with the \"BioShock 2\" Special Edition\n\nAn initial demo of the game was made available in August 2007 for Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows. This demo included cutscenes to introduce the player to Rapture, the game's tutorial section, and its first levels; the demo also included weapons, plasmids, and tonics that would otherwise be introduced later in the full title, as to give the player more of the features that would be found in the published game. The Xbox demo was the fastest demo at that time to reach one million downloads on the Xbox Live service. The full game was released for these platforms on August 21, 2007.\n\nThe first patch for the Xbox 360 version was released about two weeks after release to fix some of the game stability issues players had reported The patch was found to introduce more problems to the game for some users, including occasional freezes, bad framerates, and audio-related issues, though methods to resolve these issues through the console's cache system were outlined by Irrational Games.\n\nIn December 2007, a common patch was released for both the Xbox and Windows version. The patch included additional content such as new Plasmids, new achievements for the Xbox 360 version, and additional graphics settings to address some of the field-of-view issues identified by players. (See below). The patch also added in an option to disable the use of Vita-Chambers, a feature requested by players to make the game more challenging, as well as an achievement to complete the game at its hardest setting without using a Vita-Chamber.\n\nIn an August 2007 interview, when asked about the possibility of a PlayStation 3 version of \"BioShock\", Ken Levine had stated only that there was \"no PS3 development going on\" at the time; however, on May 28, 2008, 2K Games confirmed that a PlayStation 3 version of the game was in development by 2K Marin, and it was released on October 17, 2008. On July 3, 2008 2K Games announced partnership with Digital Extremes and said that the PlayStation 3 version is being developed by 2K Marin, 2K Boston, 2K Australia and Digital Extremes. Jordan Thomas was the director for the PlayStation 3 version. While there are no graphical improvements to the game over the original Xbox 360 version, the PlayStation 3 version offers the widescreen option called \"horizontal plus\", introduced via a patch in the 360 version, while cutscene videos are of a much higher resolution than in the DVD version. Additional add-on content will also be released exclusively for the PlayStation 3 version. One addition is \"Survivor Mode\", in which the enemies have been made tougher, and Vita-Chambers provide less of a health boost when used, making the player become creative in approaching foes and to rely more on the less-used plasmids in the game. \"BioShock\" also supports Trophies and PlayStation Home. A demo version was released on the PlayStation Store on October 2, 2008. An update for the PlayStation 3 version was released on November 13, 2008 to fix some graphical problems and occasions where users experienced a hang and were forced to reset the console. This update also incorporated the \"Challenge Room\" and \"New Game Plus\" features.\n\nA port to OS X systems was made by Feral Interactive and released in October 2009.\n\nIn early 2008, IG Fun secured the rights to develop and publish a mobile phone version of \"BioShock\". This version was developed as a top-down, two-dimensional platformer that attempted to recreate most of the plot and game elements of the original title; IG Fun worked with Irrational to determine the key story elements they wanted to keep in the game. IG Fun recognized they would not be able to include the full storyline within a single mobile title, and so planned to split the title into three \"episodes\". Only the first episode was released.\n\nA port to iOS devices done by the 2K China studio was released on August 27, 2014. The iOS version is content complete and functionally equivalent to the original Xbox 360 and Windows version, featuring either the use of touch-screen virtual gamepad controls or the use of a Bluetooth-enabled controller, and with a graphics engine optimized for iOS devices. The game was later delisted from the App Store in September 2015; the game had become unplayable for many that upgraded to iOS 8.4 on their devices, and while a patch had been discussed, a 2K representative stated that the decision to remove the game came from the developer. 2K later clarified that they will be working on resolving the issues with the game's compatibility with the new firmware and will re-release the title once that has been completed. However, by January 2017, 2K officially stated that it will no longer support the title, the game will remain on the App Store, but will not receive additional updates.\n\n\"BioShock\" has received critical acclaim. Mainstream press reviews have praised the immersive qualities of the game and its political dimension. The \"Boston Globe\" described it as \"a beautiful, brutal, and disquieting computer game ... one of the best in years\", and compared the game to Whittaker Chambers' 1957 riposte to \"Atlas Shrugged\", \"Big Sister Is Watching You\". \"Wired\" also mentioned the Ayn Rand connection (a partial anagram of Andrew Ryan) in a report on the game which featured a brief interview with Levine. The \"Chicago Sun-Times\" review said \"I never once thought anyone would be able to create an engaging and entertaining video game around the fiction and philosophy of Ayn Rand, but that is essentially what 2K Games has done ... the rare, mature video game that succeeds in making you think while you play\".\n\nThe \"Los Angeles Times\" review concluded, \"Sure, it's fun to play, looks spectacular and is easy to control. But it also does something no other game has done to date: It really makes you feel.\" \"The New York Times\" reviewer described it as: \"intelligent, gorgeous, occasionally frightening\" and added, \"Anchored by its provocative, morality-based story line, sumptuous art direction and superb voice acting, \"BioShock\" can also hold its head high among the best games ever made.\"\n\nAccording to review aggregator Metacritic, the game received an average review score of 96/100 for Xbox 360 and Microsoft Windows, and 94/100 for PlayStation 3. , it is one of the highest-rated games on Metacritic, tied with a number of other games for the third-highest aggregate score. GameSpy praised \"BioShock\" \"inescapable atmosphere\", and \"Official Xbox Magazine\" lauded its \"inconceivably great plot\" and \"stunning soundtrack and audio effects.\" The gameplay and combat system have been praised for being smooth and open-ended, and elements of the graphics, such as the water, were praised for their quality. It has been noted that the combination of the game's elements \"straddles so many entertainment art forms so expertly that it's the best demonstration yet how flexible this medium can be. It's no longer just another shooter wrapped up in a pretty game engine, but a story that exists and unfolds inside the most convincing and elaborate and artistic game world ever conceived.\"\n\nReviewers did highlight a few negative issues in \"BioShock\", however. The recovery system involving \"Vita-Chambers\", which revive a defeated player at half life, but do not alter the enemies' health, makes it possible to wear down enemies through sheer perseverance, and was criticised as one of the biggest flaws in the gameplay. IGN noted that both the controls and graphics of the Xbox 360 version are inferior to those of the PC version, in that switching between weapons or plasmids is easier using the PC's mouse than the 360's radial menu, as well as the graphics being slightly better with higher resolutions. The game has been touted as a hybrid first-person shooter, but two reviewers found advances from comparable games lacking, both in the protagonist and in the challenges he faces. Some reviewers also found the combat behavior of the splicers lacking in diversity (and their A.I. behavior not very well done), and the moral choice too much \"black and white\" to be really interesting. Some reviewers and essayists such as Jonathan Blow also found that the \"moral choice\" the game offered to the player (saving or harvesting the little sisters) was flawed because it had no real impact on the game, which ultimately leads the player to think that the sisters were just mechanics of no real importance. Daniel Friedman for \"Polygon\" concurred with Blow, noting that the player only loses 10% of the possible ADAM rewards for saving the Little Sisters rather than killing them, and felt that this would have been better instituted as part of the game difficulty mechanic. Former LucasArts developer Clint Hocking wrote a noted essay that stated that \"BioShock\" exhibited \"ludonarrative dissonance\" between its story and mechanics, as while the story advocates selflessness in helping others, its gameplay encourages selfishness by preying on Little Sisters.\n\nAt E3 2006, \"BioShock\" was given several \"Games of the Show\" awards from various online gaming sites, including GameSpot, IGN, GameSpy and GameTrailers's Trailer of the Year. \"BioShock\" received an award for Best Xbox 360 Game at the 2007 Leipzig Games Convention. After the game's release, the 2007 \"Spike TV Video Game Awards\" selected \"BioShock\" as \"Game of the Year\", \"Best Xbox 360 Game\", and \"Best Original Score\", and nominated it for four awards: \"Best Shooter\", \"Best Graphics\", \"Best PC Game\", \"Best Soundtrack\". and the game also won the 2007 BAFTA \"Best Game\" award. X-Play also selected it as \"Game of the Year\", \"Best Original Soundtrack\", \"Best Writing/Story\", and \"Best Art Direction\".\n\nAt IGN's \"Best of 2007\" \"BioShock\" was nominated for Game of The Year 2007, and won the award for PC Game of the Year, Best Artistic Design, and Best Use of Sound. GameSpy chose it as the third best game of the year, and gave \"BioShock\" the awards for Best Sound, Story and Art Direction. GameSpot awarded the game for Best Story, while GamePro gave \"BioShock\" the Best Story, Xbox 360 and Best Single-Player Shooter awards. \"BioShock\" won the \"Best Visual Art\", \"Best Writing\", and \"Best Audio\" awards at the 2008 Game Developers Choice Awards. Guinness World Records awarded the game a record for \"Most Popular Xbox Live Demo\" in the Guinness World Records: Gamer's Edition 2008. \"BioShock\" is ranked first on \"Game Informer\" list of The Top 10 Video Game Openings. GamesRadar placed \"Bioshock\" as the 12th best game of all time. In 2011 \"BioShock\" was awarded the number 1 spot in GameTrailer's \"Top 100 Video Game Trailers of All Time\", for submerging the viewer into the \"BioShock\" universe and its enduring impact. In August 2012, IGN gave it the top spot on their list of the Top 25 Modern PC Games, a ranking of the best PC games released since 2006. In November 2012, \"Time\" named it one of the 100 greatest video games of all time. In July 2015, the game placed 9th on USgamer's The 15 Best Games Since 2000 list.\n\nThe Xbox 360 version was the third best-selling game of August 2007, with 490,900 copies. The \"Wall Street Journal\" reported that shares in Take-Two Interactive \"soared nearly 20%\" in the week following overwhelmingly favorable early reviews of the game. Take-Two Interactive announced that by June 5, 2008, over 2.2 million copies of \"BioShock\" had been shipped. In a June 10, 2008 interview, Roy Taylor, Nvidia's VP of Content Business Development, stated that the PC version has sold over one million copies. According to Take-Two Interactive's chairman Strauss Zelnick, the game had sold around 3 million copies by June 2009. By March 2010, \"BioShock\" has sold 4 million copies.\n\nThe initial Windows release was criticized by players for several perceived shortcomings. The game was shipped with SecuROM copy protection that required activation from 2K Games' servers over the Internet; the unavailability of these servers was reported as the reason for the cancellation of the game's midnight release in Australia. Players found that the SecuROM limited the number of times the game could be activated to two; user feedback led to 2K Games to increase the activation count to five, and later offer a tool that allowed users to revoke previous activations on their own. Ultimately 2K Games removed the activation limit, though retail versions of the game still required the activation process. Levine admitted that their initial approach to the activation process was malformed, harming their reputation during the launch period.\n\nThe SecuROM software also caused some virus scanners and malware detector to believe the software was malicious. 2K Games assured players that the software installation process did not install any malicious code or rootkit However, players observed that some of the SecuROM software was not fully removed on uninstallation of the game.\n\nSome of the graphic capabilities of \"BioShock\" were also criticised by players. The initial release of the game was found to use a field of view (FOV) in widescreen that presented a smaller view compared to the game running at a 4:3 screen resolution, conflicting with original reports from a developer on how widescreen would have been handled. Though the choice of FOV was a design decision made during development, Irrational included an option for \"Horizontal FOV Lock\" in the December 2007 patch that allows widescreen users a wider field of view, without cutting anything off the image vertically. \"BioShock\" was also criticized for not supporting pixel shader 2.0b video cards (such as the Radeon X800/X850), which were considered high-end graphics cards in 2004–2005, and accounted for about 24% of surveyed hardware collected through Valve's Steam platform at the time of \"BioShock\" release.\n\nOn July 8, 2014, 2K Games released a DRM-free version of BioShock on the Humble 2K Bundle, and then re-released on the Humble Store.\n\n\"BioShock\" has received praise for its artistic style and compelling storytelling. In their book, \"Digital Culture: Understanding New Media\", Glen Creeber and Royston Martin perform a case study of \"BioShock\" as a critical analysis of video games as an artistic medium. They praised the game for its visuals, sound, and ability to engage the player into the story. They viewed \"BioShock\" as a sign of the \"coming of age\" of video games as an artistic medium. John Lanchester of the \"London Review of Books\" recognized \"BioShock\" as one of the first video games to break into coverage of mainstream media to be covered as a work of art arising from its narrative aspects, whereas before video games had failed to enter into the \"cultural discourse\", or otherwise covered due to moral controversies they created. Peter Suderman for \"Vox\" in 2016 wrote that \"BioShock\" was the first game that demonstrated that video games could be a work of art, particularly highlighting that the game plays on the theme of giving the illusion of individual control.\n\nIn February 2011, the Smithsonian Institution announced it would be holding an exhibit dedicated to the art of video games. Several games were chosen initially and the public could vote for which games they felt deserved to be displayed via a poll on the exhibit's website. \"BioShock\" was considered a front runner to be displayed because of its status as a game that demonstrated how artistic the medium can be.\nThe game's plot twist, where the player discovers that the player-character Jack has been coerced into events by the trigger phrase, \"Would you kindly...\", is considered one of the strongest narrative elements of recent games, in part that it subverted the expectation that the player has control and influence on the game. The phrase was used in homage to \"BioShock\" in the video game-centric episode, \"Playtest\", of \"Black Mirror\", purposely included by its director Dan Trachtenberg.\n\nIn response to the game's high sales and critical acclaim, Take-Two Interactive chairman Strauss Zelnick revealed in a conference call to analysts that the company now considered the game as part of a franchise. He also speculated on any follow-ups mimicking the development cycle of \"Grand Theft Auto\", with a new release expected every two to three years. 2K's president Christoph Hartmann stated that \"BioShock\" could have five sequels, comparing the franchise to the \"Star Wars\" movies.\n\n\"BioShock 2\" was announced in 2008, with its development being led by 2K Marin. Levine stated that Irrational (then 2K Boston) was not involved in the game's sequel because they wanted to \"swing for the fences\" and try to come up with something \"very, very different\", which was later revealed as \"BioShock Infinite\". \"BioShock 3\" was also announced, with its release assumed to likely coincide with the \"BioShock\" film. \"BioShock 2\" takes place about ten years following the events of the first game. The player assumes the role of Subject Delta, a precursor of the Big Daddies who must search the fallen city of Rapture for his former Little Sister, Eleanor. \"BioShock 2\" was released for Windows PC, Mac, Xbox 360, and the PlayStation 3 worldwide on February 9, 2010.\n\nWhile \"BioShock Infinite\", developed by Irrational Games and released in 2013, shares the name and many similar gameplay concepts with \"BioShock\", the title is not a sequel or prequel in story, instead taking place aboard the collapsing air-city of Columbia in the year 1912, and following former Pinkerton agent Booker DeWitt as he tries to rescue a woman named Elizabeth from the dystopia it has become. \"Infinite\" involves the possibilities of multiple universes, and one scene during the game take place at the lighthouse and bathysphere terminus of Rapture as part of this exploration, though any direct canonical connection is not given in the main game. The episodic expansion, \"\", takes place in Rapture in 1959, prior to the war between Atlas and Ryan, while continuing the story of Booker and Elizabeth. This content links the two stories while providing expansion on the causes and behind-the-scenes events alluded to by the in-game background from \"BioShock\".\n\nAfter completing \"BioShock Infinite\" and its expansion, Levine announced that he was restructuring Irrational Games to focus on smaller, narrative-driven titles. 2K Games continues to hold on to the \"BioShock\" intellectual property and plans to continue to develop games in this series, considering the framework set by Levine and his team as a \"rich creative canvas\" for more stories.\n\nFollowing the creation of a fan petition for a special edition, Take-Two Interactive stated that they would publish a special edition of \"BioShock\" only if the petition received 5,000 signatures; this number of signatures was reached after just five hours. Subsequently, a poll was posted on the 2K Games operated Cult of Rapture community website in which visitors could vote on what features they would most like to see in a special edition; the company stated that developers would take this poll into serious consideration. To determine what artwork would be used for the Limited Edition cover, 2K Games ran a contest, with the winning entry provided by Crystal Clear Art's owner and graphic designer Adam Meyer.\n\nOn April 23, 2007, the Cult of Rapture website confirmed that the Limited Collector's Edition would include a Big Daddy figurine (many of which were damaged due to a dropped shipping container; a replacement initiative is in place), a \"Making Of\" DVD, and a soundtrack CD. Before the special edition was released, the proposed soundtrack CD was replaced with \"The Rapture EP\".\n\n\"BioShock\" was remastered to support 1080p and higher framerates as part of the 2016 \"\" release for Windows, PlayStation 4, and Xbox One systems. The remastering was performed by Blind Squirrel Games and published by 2K Games. A standalone version of \"BioShock Remastered\" was released for macOS by Feral Interactive on August 22, 2017.\n\n\"BioShock: Breaking the Mold\", a book containing artwork from the game, was released by 2K Games on August 13, 2007. It is available in both low and high resolution, in PDF format from 2K Games's official website. Until October 1, 2007, 2K Games was sending a printed version of the book to the owners of the collector's edition whose Big Daddy figurines had been broken, as compensation for the time it took to replace them. On October 31, 2008, the winners of \"Breaking the Mold: Developers Edition Artbook Cover Contest\" were announced on cultofrapture.com.\n\nA prequel novel, titled \"BioShock: Rapture\" written by John Shirley, was published July 19, 2011. The prequel book details the construction of Rapture and the events leading to its demise. The book follows multiple \"BioShock\" characters.\n\nIndustry rumors after the game's release suggested a film adaptation of the game would be made, utilizing similar green screen filming techniques as in the movie \"300\" to recreate the environments of Rapture. On May 9, 2008, Take-Two Interactive announced a deal with Universal Studios to produce a \"BioShock\" movie, to be directed by Gore Verbinski and written by John Logan. The film was expected to be released in 2010, but was put on hold due to budget concerns. On August 24, 2009 it was revealed that Verbinski had dropped out of the project due to the studio's decision to film overseas to keep the budget under control. Verbinski reportedly feels this would have hindered his work on \"Rango\". Then Juan Carlos Fresnadillo was in talks to direct with Verbinski as producer.\n\nIn January 2010 the project was in pre-production stage, with director Juan Carlos Fresnadillo and Braden Lynch, a voice artist from \"BioShock 2\" both working on the film. By July the film was facing budget issues but producer Gore Verbinski said they were working it out. He also said the film would be a hard R. Ken Levine, during an interview on August 30, 2010, said: \"I will say that it is still an active thing and it's something we are actively talking about and actively working on.\" Verbinski later cited that by trying to maintain the \"R\" rating, they were unable to find any studios that would back the effort, putting the film's future in jeopardy.\n\nLevine confirmed in March 2013 that the film has been officially cancelled. Levine stated that after Warner's \"Watchmen\" film in 2009 did not do as well as the studio expected, they had concerns with the $200 million budget that Verbinski had for the \"BioShock\" film. They asked him to consider doing the film on a smaller $80 million budget, but Verbinski did not want to accept this. In February 2017, Verbinski said that his crew were about eight weeks from starting filming, with plans for many elaborate sets given that the setting of Rapture could not be something easily shot on existing locations, requiring the $200 million budget. Verbinski was anticipating on releasing the film with an R-rating, when Universal approached him about changing the film's direction. Universal requested that he tone down the film and aim instead for a PG-13 movie, which would be able to draw more audiences to the film and recoup the larger budget he asked for. Verbinski insisted on keeping the R-rating, and refused the smaller budget Universal offered to make the R-rated version. Universal felt that that expensive a film with the limited R-rating would be too much of a risk, and pulled him from the film. Universal then subsequently brought in a new director to work with the smaller budget, but Levine and 2K Games did not feel that the new director was a good fit with the material. Universal then let Levine make the decision to end the project, which he did believing that the film would not work with the current set of compromises they would have had to make.\n\nIn January 2014, artwork from the canceled film surfaced online, showing what an adaptation could have looked like. Verbinski said that there is \"all kinds of crazy stuff\" from the pre-production stage that still exists such as screen tests for characters. He noted in the 2017 Reddit piece that with the success of the 2016 film \"Deadpool\", he believes that there is now justification for his vision of the \"BioShock\" film.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "988689", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988689", "title": "Blaster (Transformers)", "text": "Blaster (Transformers)\n\nBlaster is the name of several fictional characters in the Transformers television and comic series based on the popular toy line produced by Takara Tomy and Hasbro. Due to trademark reasons, he is sometimes called Autobot Blaster. He is an Autobot who specializes in communications.\n\nBlaster's initial transformation is an AM/FM Stereo Cassette Player, commonly referred to as a boombox or \"ghettoblaster\", hence the name. Blaster was a popular character from the original series while not featuring as prominently in the modern Transformers universe.\n\nAs a member of the Autobot communications sub-group Blaster frequently worked with its other members – Eject, Grand Slam, Raindance, Ramhorn, Rewind and Steeljaw. He is the Autobots' answer to the evil Decepticon Soundwave.\n\nBlaster (Tempo in France, Radiorobot in Italy, Broadcast in Japan), like the Autobot Jazz, has a great love of Earth culture, rock music and other forms of music as long as it is hard. He's normally at the forefront of any given situation. As an AM/FM stereo cassette player, he can perform as a deck, plus receive radio signals on a variety of frequencies. Acting as the Autobot communications center, he can transmit signals within a 4,000 mile radius. Blaster is sometimes depicted as carrying various tape warriors within his deck, including (Steeljaw, Ramhorn, Rewind and Eject).\n\nAccording to Dan Fleming in Powerplay: toys as popular culture, Blaster represents a guardian of more primitive heroes, as well as the hidden power of technology.\n\nBlaster was voted the 5th top Transformer who was “bad ass” in the comics by Topless Robots.\n\nAccording to critics, Blaster has a \"black coded\" voice and name.\n\nBlaster's first appearance was in episode 20, \"Dinobot Island, Part 1\" with no particular origin, simply appearing among the Autobots. Blaster frequently spoke in rhyme resembling rap music lyrics.\n\nHe had several important appearances in season 2, most notably in \"Blaster Blues\", when Spike and Carly brought Blaster to a concert because he loved music. Blaster decided to share his music by transmitting the show to the other Autobots but drove everyone but Cosmos and Jazz, who liked his taste in music, crazy also because the music was so loud they were unable to respond to a Decepticon attack as they got away with stealing a powerful decoder. Blaster and Cosmos went looking for the Decepticon in space then as luck would have it they found something on the moon which turned out to be a Decepticon hideout. Blaster and Cosmos listen in on their plans to conquer the Earth but they ended up getting captured by Astrotrain when they got discovered by Megatron. After they got captured, Megatron decided to use Blaster as a transcrambler with Cosmos being used as a power booster for their device which could foul up Earth commutation systems. Blaster, who wanted to stop Megatron's plan and to redeem himself from before, tipped the other Autobots the Decepticons location by transmitting his music when Megatron ransomed the humans into giving all their energy reverses. Blaster ejected some feedback to overload the Decpeticons machine with Cosmos offering a power boast to destroy it, after Megatron and Astrotrain left base to confront Omega Supreme, Powerglide, Optimus Prime, Spike and Carly when they arrived to stop them and to rescue their friends, which stop their plans.\n\nIn the episode \"Prime Target\", the big game hunter Lord Chumley captures a secret Soviet jet, leading to panic and the possibility of war. Chumley then set his sights on the ultimate trophy, the head of Optimus Prime. In order to lure Optimus in, Chumley captures the Autobots Tracks, Bumblebee, Jazz, Beachcomber, Grapple, Blaster and Inferno. Windcharger and Huffer are able to avoid being trapped. When Cosmos learns of the location Chumley was keeping the captured Autobots, Optimus Prime accepts Chumley's challenge to meet him alone. Although interrupted by the Decepticons Astrotrain and Blitzwing's attempt to ally the Decepticons with Chumley, Optimus defeats the big game hunter and frees the Autobots. Chumley and the stolen jet were handed over to the Soviets by the Autobots as punishment for his actions.\n\nHe also had a prominent role in \"Auto-Bop\". In the episode, Blaster and Tracks encounter Raoul, someone who Tracks has encountered before. Raoul and the posse, the Bop Crew, were finding something suspicious about a nightclub called the Dancitron. As the two Autobots investigate, they find a scheme plotted by the Decepticons Soundwave and Starscream. Later, while Tracks in his Cybertronian shuttle craft mode chases Starscream in an aerial battle, Blaster faces off with his Decepticon counterpart Soundwave in a sonic duel, resulting in a rivalry between the two.\n\nIn \"\", set in the year 2005, Blaster was assigned to Autobot City on Earth. During the invasion by Megatron's forces, Blaster was responsible for sending a distress signal to Optimus Prime on Moonbase One. Upon Megatron's orders, Soundwave releases Rumble, Frenzy, Ravage, and Ratbat to jam the transmission to prevent him from establishing contact with the Autobot Moonbase. After Blaster's broadcasting message was interrupted and blocked, Soundwave's cassette minions attack the communications tower. For the first time we also see Blaster's own cassettes, Eject, Rewind, Ramhorn, and Steeljaw. The signal is received and Optimus Prime is able to arrive with reinforcements to defeat the Decepticons. After the attack, Blaster picked up transmissions from Moonbases One and Two. He was not seen for the rest of the film.\n\nIn episode 78, \"Madman's Paradise\", Spike Witwicky and his wife Carly host a banquet for a visiting ambassador. Their son Daniel gets bored and wandered off. Grimlock follows him, and they fall into a lost chamber where Quintessons banished their criminals to other dimensions. They slipped through to the sorcerous other-dimensional realm of Menonia, and are tricked into fighting on the Red Wizard's side, only to find out that he is the Quintesson criminal, who overthrew the Golden One. Blaster, Ultra Magnus, Eject, Rewind, Ramhorn, and Steeljaw follow, and using Blaster's amplification, they help the Golden One defeat the Red Wizard. With the help of Perceptor, the Autobots and Daniel are returned to Cybertron.\n\nHe continued to appear throughout the season 3. His last appearance in the U.S. cartoon was in episode 95, \"The Return of Optimus Prime, Part 2\".\n\nBlaster is destroyed in the Japanese \"\" series during a fight with Soundwave (who also perished in the fight) and rebuilt two episodes later as Twincast, with a blue/white color scheme as opposed to the red/yellow previously. After a pivotal role in \"Operation Cassette\", he featured as a regular character throughout the whole series. The Twincast toy was recently re-issued by eHobby. Aside from the blue/yellow color scheme, the Twincast toy also differs from the Blaster/Broadcast toy in that the tape compartment can hold two cassette Transformers simultaneously.\n\nBlaster was among the Autobot resistance during the \"Age of Interment\", shown in the third \"War Within\" series.\n\nIn the second Generation 1 miniseries from Dreamwave Productions, Blaster is part of a resistance group led by Hot Rod. He accompanies Optimus Prime during his attack on Iacon.\n\nBlaster was recently the subject of a \"\" issue in 2008. The comic depicts Blaster as \"The Voice\", acting much like a radio DJ and bolstering Autobot morale in the war against the Decepticons. In the comic, Blaster's alternate form is a tank with a pair of large sonic cannons.\n\nIn “Spotlight: Blaster”, Blaster was badly damaged and left adrift in space, but was discovered by an alien ship who bought him back to the Autobot Command Hub under the command of Silverbolt. Having little memory of the event himself, Blaster finds that he was betrayed and nearly killed by a fellow Autobot just before his regular broadcast, in order to demoralize the Autobots just before a Decepticon attack. When the assassin tries again, Blaster eventually finds out that his attacker was Beachcomber, who was being controlled by the Decepticon Bombshell at the behest of Soundwave. Blaster manages to talk Beachcomber into resisting the control, which nearly burns out his mind. Blaster swears to get revenge on Soundwave.\n\nIn the Marvel Transformers comics Blaster originally appeared in issue #17, attempting to rescue his friend Scrounge, who was to be executed by Straxus. Blaster is captured himself and forced to watch his friend die. He is rescued by Perceptor and his Autobot group. Later, spying on Straxus' use of the Space Bridge, the Autobots decide to attack and blow it up. They discover the Space Bridge is their comrade Spanner. Blaster then battles Straxus one-on-one, seemingly destroying him. With the Space Bridge blowing itself up, Blaster has no choice but to lead his comrades (Beachcomber, Cosmos, Perceptor, Powerglide, Seaspray and Warpath) across the Bridge to Earth.\nTheir luck didn't improve as they were attacked by Megatron and his troops on arrival, only being saved when Megatron decides to attack the Autobot bases instead. Circuit Breaker, a super-powered human whose crippling in an attack by Shockwave had left her with a pathological hatred of all Transformers, then attacks and defeated them. She mounts their heads in her Rapid Anti-Robot Attack Team headquarters. After capturing the Aerialbots as well a new problem arose. The Decepticon Battlechargers Runabout and Runamuck had been causing mayhem all across America. Using the parts from all the captured Autobots she creates a giant Autobot with herself in control, striking a deal with them that if they would co-operate she would let them go. Circuit Breaker then uses them to oppose the two Decepticons, who were attacking the Statue of Liberty. After defeating the Decepticons with Circuit Breaker the Autobots were released and rebuilt into their original forms.\n\nAfter a brief side adventure in the UK comics, in which Blaster's group are attacked (and almost killed) by the insane future Decepticon Galvatron, Blaster and his men join up with the main Autobots on Earth. Soon after they join, Optimus Prime dies. Blaster delivers the eulogy at his funeral.\n\nIn issue #27, \"King of the Hill!\", Perceptor summons his fellow Autobots Blaster, Hot Spot, Jetfire, Omega Supreme, Ratchet and Silverbolt in order to decide who should take leadership of the Autobots. After an attack by the giant Decepticon Trypticon, Grimlock is chosen to lead them.\n\nBlaster would soon regret this. After a mission where their cover had been blown by \"the Mechanic\", a human, he and Goldbug, appalled by Grimlock's willingness to sacrifice humans to achieve their goals, desert. They also ran because they fear Grimlock's anger.\n\nThey had more adventures; facing the Decepticon Triple Changers and a plague of Scraplets, as well as facing off with a Decepticon strike force sent to destroy Galvatron and Ultra Magnus. Blaster (himself getting more callous) is robbed of his ally when Goldbug and the Throttlebots are betrayed by humans and captured by RAAT. He is subsequently attacked by both the Combaticons and the Protectobots, who had been sent by Grimlock to arrest him. The two combiner teams battled, with Bruticus beating Defensor. With aid from some human children Blaster takes out the giant Decepticon. As a reward, he locks Blast Off into his Decepticon shuttle mode and took them into space. There, they are attacked by Grimlock and the Ark. Surrendering to save their lives, Blaster discovers he was not alone in his discontent, especially after Grimlock had tried to have the kids executed.\n\nEvents came to a head when Fortress Maximus's group of Autobots link up with Grimlock's group, informing him that many of their group's number had been empowered by linking themselves with humans via the Headmaster and Targetmaster processes. Grimlock is not pleased, and it was quickly realized he had to be defeated. A recently rebuilt and imprisoned Goldbug convinces Blaster to fight in Maximus' place. In the midst of their duel, Ratbat's Decepticons attacked, and the two put aside their differences to lead the Autobots to a partial victory. During the conflict, Maximus sent a unit of his troops back to Nebulos so that Prime will be resurrected via the Powermaster process. Prime soon returns and retakes command, sending Blaster to investigate the Decepticon island resort Club Con, seemingly run by Buster Witwicky. Accompanying Buster's girlfriend Jessie, he soon had his cover blown by the Seacons and was forced to flee.\n\n\"Blaster encounters time-traveling Autobots who intended to deal with Galvatron, a plot detailed in the UK comics. This encounter results in Blaster being displaced to an alternate limbo realm.\"\n\nHe is soon freed, only to be deactivated by the Underbase powered Starscream.\n\nBlaster was seen among the Autobots being repaired on the Ark when Optimus Prime sent Landmine and Cloudburst on their mission to obtain computer chips to repair fellow Autobots in issue #52, \"Guess Who The Mechannibals Are Having For Dinner?\". Despite rescuing Sky Lynx, the two Autobots' mission ended in failure, when the pair realized the Mechannibals came by their computer chips by recycling them from other robots they ate.\n\nBlaster's body was seen among the deactivated Autobots Ratchet is doing his best to revive in Transformers #56, \"Back from the Dead\".\n\nThis was not the end for Blaster; he is one of the Autobots revived by Nucleon by Grimlock and the other Dinobots. Returning to Cybertron, he battles against the coming of Unicron. After the betrayal of the Decepticons, the Autobots follow them to the planet Klo, where they were ambushed. Blaster is one of the few survivors. Then he is badly damaged by Quake's tank mode while Prowl berates Grimlock for inept strategy. He still makes the final battle along with Grimlock, Prowl and a few others. He was present when Optimus Prime returned with the Last Autobot and routed the Decepticon forces.\n\nThe future Blaster from the Movie continuity would also appear in the UK comics, as one of the crew of Autobot city. Arcee's unintentional dereliction of duty allows a Quintesson sneak attack to catch the city unawares, and Blaster appears to get killed trying to radio for help. His body was later strung up by the Quintessons as a taunting gesture to the other Autobots. However, he helps his comrades from \"beyond the grave\", allowing his cassettes Steeljaw, Eject and Ramhorn to assist in taking back the city.\n\n\"It later transpires that depictions of Blaster's \"death\" had been greatly exaggerated; he shows up, alive and well, in the prologue to the \"Time Wars\" saga, set months after the Quintesson attack on Autobot City.\"\n\nBlaster appeared in the TFcon 2008 voice play \"Primitive Recall.\"\n\nA new version of Blaster was introduced in the \"\" toyline.\n\n\nThis Blaster is an evil mirror universe version of the \"Generation 1\" character. He is evil, sadistic and speaks with a thick German accent.\n\nBlaster is one of the many Autobots aboard the Ark in \"Do Over\" by Fun Publications. The Ark launches from Cybertron for Earth under the command of Rodimus and is followed by the Decepticon ship Nemesis, under the command of Starscream. While battling over Earth it is shot down by human defense systems.\n\nBlaster is spotlighted in the story \"Blitzwing Bop\" where he is one of two Autobots who were not affected by a radio disruption broadcast by the Decepticon Blitzwing. Sent to recover Blitzwing, he plans to send the Decepticon to Cybertron on the Stellar Spanner with an amplifier which will destroy everyone on the planet, including Blitzwing! He is stopped by Soundwave and Thunderwing and thrown into the Spanner, which ends up placing him on Earth's moon.\n\nBlaster appears in the novel \"\" as part of the crew of the Ark.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36852023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36852023", "title": "Cinemateca Brasileira", "text": "Cinemateca Brasileira\n\nCinemateca Brasileira is an institution located in Vila Mariana, São Paulo, responsible for the preservation of Brazilian audiovisual production. Centered on activities involving the storing, diffusion, and the restoration of its collection, it is one of the largest film libraries in Latin America and also one of its oldest, established in 1949 in the Film Department of the Modern Art Museum of São Paulo. It became a government institution in 1984 when it was incorporated into the Ministry of Culture. There are about 200,000 rolls of film, long, short and newsreels; 120,000 were reported in 1996 but it has since grown markedly. It also has a large collection of documents, books, journals, original scripts, photographs and posters. The website of Cinemateca Brasileira is one of the most authoritative sources on Brazilian cinema.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35630613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35630613", "title": "Deutscher Computerspielpreis", "text": "Deutscher Computerspielpreis\n\nThe Deutscher Computerspielpreis (German computer games award) is awarded annually by the \"Bundesverband Interaktive Unterhaltungssoftware\" (federal association for interactive entertainment software), \"G.A.M.E. Bundesverband der Entwickler von Computerspielen\" (federal association of computer game developers) and Federal Minister of Transport and Digital Infrastructure Alexander Dobrindt, starting in 2009.\n\nThe Deutscher Computerspielpreis (The German Video Game Awards) was first awarded in 2009. The venue for the German Video Game Awards ceremony alternates annually between Munich and Berlin. The German Video Game Awards are presented by the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure and the BIU (German Trade Association of Interactive Entertainment Software) and GAME (German Games Industry Association) trade associations, with the support of the Digital Gaming Culture Foundation. The prize money is donated by those supporters and amounts to a total of €385.000. The German Video Game Awards are the most prestigious games award within Germany. Awarded are games of “cultural and pedagogical value”, technical or gameplay-related innovations or games of high entertainment value. Prize money is only disbursed to winners in national categories. Basic condition to submit a game in one of the donated categories is a development quota of 80 percent of the game in Germany.\n\nRegarding the year 2015, the award has been fundamentally reshaped by the Federal Ministry of Transport and Digital Infrastructure and the BIU (German Trade Association of Interactive Entertainment Software) and GAME (German Games Industry Association) trade associations, with the support of the Digital Gaming Culture Foundation. Besides the introduction of new and the re-structuring of existing categories, criteria for registration have been reformulated. The award currently consists of 14 categories with the latest additions of an audience award category and three international award categories, albeit those four categories are exempt from donation. Regarding criteria, pleasure as part of the gaming experience has been included and the overall catalog of criteria has been refocused. Part of the decision was also the restaffing of juries and increase of prize money up to €450.000 in 2017.\n\nThe German Video Game Awards are announced (tendered) jointly by politicians and industry and were created by the German Government following an initiative of the German Bundestag (German Parliament) in cooperation with BIU (German Trade Association of Interactive Entertainment Software) and GAME (German Games Industry Association) trade associations. \nDocuments concerning the origin of the award are the Report of BKM to the German Bundestag dated 24. October 2007 (federal printed matter: BT-Drs. 16/7081) and the resolution of the German Bundestag dating 21. February 2008 following a proposal of the grand coalition of the SPD Party and the CDU Party (printed matter: BT-Drs. 16/7116). Background of the initiative was the perceived change of importance within society regardless of age, sex and social background of gamers and the increase of games industry as an economy of scale, as well as the extended application of games and game technology in other sectors of economy. \nUntil 2014 the Kulturstaatsministerium (State Ministry of Culture) was the political Partner complementary to BIU and GAME as the economical partners of the German Video Game Awards. In 2014 the Ministry of Transport and digital Infrastructure adopted the role of the political partner.\n\nPrimary purpose is the promotion of the German games industry. Especially the development of innovative cultural and pedagogical valuable games is emphasized. Complementing its role as an advancement award, the German Video Game Awards also award donated prizes to game concepts from students and pupils within a particular category “Best young concept” and therefore support non-professionals financially to realize their ideas for video games.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe awards were announced on April 21, 2015 in Berlin.\n\n\nThe awards were announced on April 7, 2016 in Munich.\n\n\nThe awards were announced on April 26, 2017 in Berlin.\n\n"}
{"id": "6915781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6915781", "title": "Dilemma story", "text": "Dilemma story\n\nA dilemma story (also dilemma tale) is an African story-form intended to provoke discussion. They are used as a form of both entertainment and instruction.\n"}
{"id": "55153428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55153428", "title": "Dragon Awards", "text": "Dragon Awards\n\nThe Dragon Awards are fan-voted awards that \"recognize outstanding achievement in science fiction and fantasy literature, comics, gaming and filmed entertainment\". They are given out annually at Dragon Con in Atlanta, Georgia since 2016. The award process consists of two steps: a nomination step where each voter nominates one work of choice in each category, and a voting step where the finalists selected from the nominated works are voted on by each voter. The nominations and votes are collected electronically. Participation is available to everyone, requiring no membership or other fees to vote.\n\nThe finalist shortlist for the first Dragon Awards was announced on August 11, 2016, and the winners were announced on September 4.\n\nControversy:\nThe Dragon Awards have been criticized in Science-Fiction and fantasy fandom because of the appearance that the awards were created in conjunction with campaigns by the Rabid and Sad Puppies to attack the Hugo Award, giving the impression that Dragon Con as a convention is itself aligned with these campaigns. \n\nCritics, such as bloggers \"Camestros Felapton\", Mike Glyer of File 770, and their commenters, have noted that the Dragon Awards process is not transparent, but \"opaque\". According to the Dragon Awards process, \"The Dragon Awards reserves the right to invalidate suspect or questionable ballots without notice.\" Language describing the review of nominations does not state that nominations are counted numerically but are \"gathered and reviewed to create a final ballot.\" Neither counts of nominations nor votes have ever been made public. The system for voting is done by email and unprotected Survey Monkey, and is easily subject to mass voting campaigns, whether by self-promoting authors, or by organized political groups. In its first year, the Dragon Awards lined up with the slate promoted by Vox Day\n\nIn 2017, nominated authors, Allison Littlewood, John Scalzi, and N.K. Jemisin asked Dragon Con to remove their names from the ballot. John Scalzi then reconsidered and kept his name on the ballot. The Dragon Awards initially refused to remove authors names, and received criticism across blogs and Science-Fiction related publications. \nThere are currently fifteen categories for the awards.\n\nThe full list of nominees (\"shortlist\") can be found at List of Dragon Award Nominees.\n\nThe category \"Best Apocalyptic Novel\" was removed from the awards in 2018.\n\nThe category \"Best Media Tie-In Novel\" was first introduced in 2018.\n"}
{"id": "13116957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13116957", "title": "East India Company (video game)", "text": "East India Company (video game)\n\nEast India Company is a real-time strategy video game developed by Finnish company Nitro Games and published by Paradox Interactive. It was released on July 31, 2009 in North America and on August 14, 2009 in Europe.\n\nThe game is based on the history of European conquest of South Asia and Southeast Asia by means of their East India Companies. In the game, the player takes on the role of the Governor Director of the East Indies. The task is to conquer India and establish a trade empire to rule over all others.\n\nThe game features real-time naval combat when enemy ships engage the player's fleets, and real-time land combat when the enemy tries to invade one of the player's colonies. East India Company combines trading, naval warfare, and management. Players can create a fleet to conquer the enemy with powerful warships and privateers.\n\nThere are eight playable nations to choose from: Britain, France, The Netherlands, Portugal, Denmark, Sweden, Holy Roman Empire and Spain. Tasks may be given by the company or the crown to do various missions including diplomacy, war, and trade. The game is mainly based in the Indian Subcontinent.\n\nThere are 11 ship types in the game, including the schooner, sloop, brig, East Indiaman, frigate, and ship of the line.\n\nA Designer's Cut was made available for download on October 27, 2009. It offers several additional features.\n\nThe game was met with mixed reviews, with an average of 67% on Metacritic. IGN said that \"players who are interested in the concept or the period will definitely find a worthwhile game here, but the appeal wears thin long before it should have\". IT Reviews agreed, stating that the game was \"a fun short-term challenge, just lacking the depth of play to ensure a lengthy shelf life\". Total PC Gaming magazine called it \"an enjoyable trading and strategy experience, let down by lacklustre combat\" (Issue 23).\n\n"}
{"id": "35820238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35820238", "title": "Fables for Robots", "text": "Fables for Robots\n\nFables for Robots () is a series of humorous science fiction short stories by Polish writer Stanisław Lem, first printed in 1964.\n\nThe fables are written in the grotesque form of folk fairy tales, set in the universe populated by robots. In this universe there are robot kings, robot peasants, robot knights, robot scientists; a robot damsel in distress is pestered by a robot dragon, robot dogs have robot fleas, etc.\n\nThe \"Fables\" constituted the bulk of the collection Mortal Engines () translated by Michael Kandel. Two of them were also published in \"The Cosmic Carnival of Stanislaw Lem\".\n\nIn 1965 three of the fables, \"Jak ocalał świat\" (\"How the World Survived\"), \"Maszyna Trurla\" (\"Trurl's Machines\"), and \"Wielkie lanie\" (\"The Great Spanking\") were included into the cycle \"The Cyberiad\".\n\nOn the other hand, one of the stories from \"The Cyberiad\", \"O królewiczu Ferrycym i królewnie Krystali\" (\"About Prince Ferricius and Princess Crystal\"), stylistically belongs to the \"Fables\" cycle.\n\nThe remaining fables are:\n\n\nAdditionally the 1993 collection \"Pożytek ze smoka\" contained the short story \"Zagadka\" (\"Riddle\"), written in 1980, a discussion of Father Cynkan, M.D. (Doctor Magneticus) and Father Chlorjan about the apocryphal possibility of non-ferrous life and how such beings could reproduce, without any design documentation.\n"}
{"id": "45362188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45362188", "title": "Film Authors' Studio", "text": "Film Authors' Studio\n\nFilm Authors' Studio (, FAS) was a short-lived but influential Croatian film production studio. Established in 1967, it was the first independent feature film production company in Yugoslavia.\n\n"}
{"id": "36932334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36932334", "title": "George Bartenieff", "text": "George Bartenieff\n\nGeorge Bartenieff (born January 24, 1933 in Berlin, Germany) is a German-American stage and film actor. He is noted both for his character roles in commercial and non-commercial films and on television, and for his work in the avant-garde theatre and performance world of downtown Manhattan, New York City in the 1960s-1970s. He is a co-founder of the Theatre for the New City, and of the Greenwich Village Halloween Parade.\n\nBartenieff appeared in nine shows on Broadway, in 19 productions Off-Broadway, in 18 films and in 21 television episodes for 14 different programs. He is the recipient of two Obie Awards and a Drama Desk Award.\n\nAs of 2003, Bartenieff was also teaching at the City University of New York, and in a high school in the Bedford-Stuyvesant neighborhood of Brooklyn.\n\nBartenieff made his stage debut at the age of 14 in the 1947 Broadway theatre production \"The Whole World Over\", directed by Harold Clurman. After appearing in a few shows on Broadway, Bartenieff went to London for training at the Royal Academy of Dramatic Arts, where he \"fell in love\" with the works of Shakespeare. His intention at the time was to be a classical actor, and his hero was Laurence Olivier.\n\nWhen Bartenieff returned to the United States, he worked with Andre Gregory's Theatre for the Living Arts in Philadelphia. For a number of years in the 1960s, Bartenieff worked with Gregory in Philadelphia, on Broadway, for Joe Papp's New York Shakespeare Festival, and in \"cross-disciplinary\" showcases at the Judson Poets Theatre at the Judson Church in Greenwich Village.\n\nBartenieff also began to do \"street theatre\" at this time. One production, with writer/carpenter/landscape artist Bib Nichols, protested against the Lower Manhattan Expressway which Robert Moses wanted to build across the island. Their production played in the street in the neighborhoods which would be affected by the highway, Little Italy and the West Village; the set was constructed in such a way that if a car came by, it would break apart to allow the vehicle to proceed.\n\nIn 1970, feeling that the Judson Poets Theatre had passed its peak, four artists involved in it – Bartenieff, his wife at the time, dancer Crystal Field, director Larry Kornfield and Theo Barnes – wanted to start their own \"cross-disciplinary theater which emphasized poetic language\", according to Bartenieff. The Westbeth Artists Community had just started at the time, and a large space appropriate for performance became available in the complex. This was the beginning of Theatre for the New City, which still exists, albeit in other quarters. TNC not only did their own work, they invited other companies, such as Mabou Mines, the Talking Band, and Richard Foreman's company, to perform there. They also mounted street theatre productions, with the purpose of making \"the theater part of the community, and the community part of the theater.\"\n\nBartenieff stayed with Theatre for the New City for 24 years – performing, directing or producing more than 900 new American plays – but left when he began to feel he was spending more time on the financial problems of the company than he was on his craft. \"I had to return,\" said Bartenieff, \"to my own work, from being the Cecil B. DeMille of off-off-Broadway to the idea that small is more.\" To this end, he collaborated with his wife, playwright and director Karen Malpede, to create a one-man show, \"I Will Bear Witness\", an adaptation of the memoirs of Victor Klemperer, which documented daily life as a Jewish professor in Nazi Germany. This production was the beginning of Bartenieff and Malpede's Theater Three Collaborative, which as of 2012 was 17 years old.\n\n\n\n\n\nBartenieff has appeared in episodes of \"Crime Story\" (1987), \"Law & Order\" (6 episodes, 1993-2004), \"New York Undercover\" (1995), \"From the Earth to the Moon\" (1998), \"\" (2002), \"American Masters\" (2 episodes, 2003 & 2007), \"Rescue Me\" (2004), \"Conviction\" (2006), \"30 Rock\" (2009), \"Curb Your Enthusiasm\" (2011), \"Elementary\" (2013) and \"Zero Hour\" (2013).\n\nIn addition, he has appeared in several made for TV movies:\n\n\nand in the \"Great Performances\" production of \"Paradise Lost\" (1971).\n\nIn 1977, Theatre for the New City, of which Bartenieff was then co-director, won a Special Citation Obie Award for Sustained Excellence. Personally, Bartenieff won a 2001 Obie for his performance in his one-act play, \"I Will Bear Witness\" and a 2006 Drama Desk Award for his performance in \"Stuff Happens\"\n\nNotes\n"}
{"id": "11124755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11124755", "title": "Gorgeous Tiny Chicken Machine Show", "text": "Gorgeous Tiny Chicken Machine Show\n\nGorgeous Tiny Chicken Machine Show is an internet comedy talk show parody starring a Japanese character called Kiko. The video series debuted on YouTube in 2007 and was created by husband-and-wife team Greg Benson and Kim Evey's production company, Mediocre Films. In spring 2008, a distribution deal with Sony Pictures resulted in 10 new episodes to premiere weekly on the company's C-Spot YouTube channel and its Crackle web video site. A second season premiered on C-Spot's channel on September 19, 2008.\n\nOriginally developed for a live improv venue, the show's first online episode was uploaded to YouTube on February 25, 2007. It was featured on the site, and quickly rose to viral video status. As of May 28, 2007, it had over 1.4 million views on YouTube and had been featured on a wide variety of other sites. The episode was screened at the FanTasia Festival on July 20, 2007, marking its Canadian premiere on screen.\n\nDavid Spade took particular interest in the fledgling series, promoting it on his show, \"The Showbiz Show with David Spade\". Pairing with Mediocre Films, they created an episode specifically for his show in which one of his co-workers is a guest on Kiko's show.\n\nA second episode was uploaded on YouTube, but shortly taken off the site by the producers. A vlog by Benson was quickly posted stating that new episodes would be coming, and negotiations were being made about the fate of the show. On May 10, 2007, a Kiko music video excerpted from the original episode two and titled \"JUICY!\" was posted.\n\nAfter considerable delays, a revised second episode was uploaded to YouTube on May 29, 2007. This episode was chosen as \"YouTube Star of the Moment\" by viewers of the \"Attack of the Show!\" program on G4 for the week ending June 10, 2007; host Kevin Pereira described the show as \"a cross between Letterman, Pee-Wee Herman, Steve Irwin, Emeril, and a Japanese schoolgirl on meth.\"\n\nAfter a long hiatus, a third episode was finally uploaded to YouTube on March 28, 2008, in conjunction with the show's debut as part of C-Spot and Crackle. It was announced at that time that C-Spot would release 10 episodes, coming out on successive Fridays as part of an original-programming lineup of six programs. The fourth episode, featuring pornographic actor Ron Jeremy, drew increased media attention around its April 4, 2008, debut, with \"Los Angeles Times\"<nowiki>'</nowiki> Web Scout article titled \"Sony's C-Spot: New Web comedy lineup surprisingly clean despite Ron Jeremy cameo.\"\n\nMonsters and Critics reported that same week that the series would be available on C-Spot via several channels of distributions, including AOL Video, Hulu, YouTube and Crackle, as well as through Verizon's V Cast and directly to Sony's Bravia televisions. The same story indicated that additional episodes would have guest appearances by writer-actor Wil Wheaton, actor-director Adam Arkin, and actor-director Michael O'Keefe; Arkin's episode — in which he played a bewildered mycologist — was made available April 25, at which time C-Spot announced that Wheaton would appear in the May 16 episode. Wheaton would instead end up on the May 30th episode.\n\nEpisodes follow a fairly standard format: The episode begins with the theme song followed by Kiko introducing herself as the host and introducing the guest (\"please for you to crap hands and cheering for...\"), mispronouncing their name in an off-color fashion, and then bringing the guest star out from a side curtain. The guest attempts to correct Kiko's pronunciation, but Kiko continues mispronouncing the guest's name throughout the show (and subtitles reflect the mispronunciation, not the correct name).\n\nKiko usually leads the guests through a series of zany activities (which usually make the guest rather uncomfortable), which are usually interrupted by Kiko announcing, \"Now it's time to spin the Wheel of Fun!\" Kiko spins a wheel of a chicken, and when it lands on a space (containing unspecified Japanese characters) pointed to by the chicken's beak, she indicates yet another zany activity for the characters to participate in.\n\nThe show ends with the guest star appearing very uncomfortable/confused and Kiko announcing the end of the show as the credits roll.\n\nKiko is played by Evey, who also writes the series. While the character is Japanese, Evey was born in South Korea and grew up in the United States.\n\nAdditional regular characters include UniCow (Payman Benz) and Cownicorn (Sean Becker), hybrid cow-unicorns; Panda (Michele Gregory), and Go-Go Dancer (Julie Wittner), who do not speak (though Go-Go Dancer can sing). Guest Rick Pope (Ryan Smith) — which Kiko mispronounces as \"Lick Poop,\" a mispronunciation that is transcribed on-screen — appeared in episodes 1, 4, 5, 13, 16, 18, and 22; several follow-up videos from Mediocre Films and distributed on C-Spot's YouTube channel are part of a series titled \"Lick Poop's Video Diary\", which purports to be Rick Pope's private vlog, stolen, edited, and uploaded by UniCow.\n\n"}
{"id": "47138926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47138926", "title": "Green Thumb Theatre", "text": "Green Thumb Theatre\n\nGreen Thumb Theatre (also known as the Green Thumb Theatre for Young People and simply as Green Thumb) is a Canadian children's theatre company based in Vancouver, British Columbia that was founded by Dennis Foon and Jane Howard Baker in 1975. The couple then went on to conceive and write New Canadian Kid, the company's signature play about a young boy who struggles with culture shock and bullying after immigrating to Canada. The play has been produced world wide for close to 40 years. Green Thumb operates in a former school house located in East Vancouver. In 1980, Green Thumb produced \"Feeling Yes, Feeling No\", a sexual abuse prevention program. Green Thumb performed the premiere of Colin Thomas' play \"One Thousand Cranes\" in 1983. Morris Panych has written several plays for the company that have toured internationally. Green Thumb's \"Celestial Being\" received the 2015 Jessie Richardson Theatre Award for outstanding production for young audiences. Also that year, Green Thumb performed George F. Walker's \"Moss Park\". As of 2018, Patrick McDonald is Green Thumb's artistic director.\n\n"}
{"id": "320757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=320757", "title": "Groove (music)", "text": "Groove (music)\n\nIn music, groove is the sense of propulsive rhythmic \"feel\" or sense of \"swing\". In jazz, it can be felt as a persistently repeated pattern. It can be created by the interaction of the music played by a band's rhythm section (e.g. drums, electric bass or double bass, guitar, and keyboards). Groove is a significant feature of popular music, and can be found in many genres, including salsa, funk, rock, fusion, and soul.\n\nFrom a broader ethnomusicological perspective, groove has been described as \"an unspecifiable but ordered sense of something that is sustained in a distinctive, regular and attractive way, working to draw the listener in.\" Musicologists and other scholars have analyzed the concept of \"groove\" since around the 1990s. They have argued that a \"groove\" is an \"understanding of rhythmic patterning\" or \"feel\" and \"an intuitive sense\" of \"a cycle in motion\" that emerges from \"carefully aligned concurrent rhythmic patterns\" that stimulates dancing or foot-tapping on the part of listeners. The concept can be linked to the sorts of ostinatos that generally accompany fusions and dance musics of African derivation (e.g. African-American, Afro-Cuban, Afro-Brazilian, etc.).\n\nThe term is often applied to musical performances that make one want to move or dance, and enjoyably \"groove\" (a word that also has sexual connotations). The expression \"in the groove\" (as in the jazz standard) was widely used from around 1936 to 1945, at the height of the swing era, to describe top-notch jazz performances. In the 1940s and 1950s, groove commonly came to denote musical \"routine, preference, style, [or] source of pleasure.\"\n\nLike the term \"swing\", which is used to describe a cohesive rhythmic \"feel\" in a jazz context, the concept of \"groove\" can be hard to define. Indeed, some dictionaries use the terms as synonyms: \"Groovy...[d]enotes music that really swings.\" Marc Sabatella's article \"Establishing The Groove\" argues that \"groove is a completely subjective thing.\" He claims that \"one person may think a given drummer has a great feel, while another person may think the same drummer sounds too stiff, and another may think he is too loose.\" Similarly, a bass educator states that while \"groove is an elusive thing\" it can be defined as \"what makes the music breathe\" and the \"sense of motion in the context of a song\".\n\nIn a musical context, general dictionaries define a groove as \"a pronounced, enjoyable rhythm\" or the act of \"creat[ing], danc[ing] to, or enjoy[ing] rhythmic music\". Steve Van Telejuice explains the \"groove\" as the point in this sense when he defines it as a point in a song or performance when \"even the people who can't dance wanna feel like dancing...\" due to the effect of the music.\n\nBernard Coquelet argues that the \"groove is the way an experienced musician will play a rhythm compared with the way it is written (or would be written)\" by playing slightly \"before or after the beat\". Coquelet claims that the \"notion of groove actually has to do with aesthetics and style\"; \"groove is an artistic element, that is to say human...and \"it will evolve depending on the harmonic context, the place in the song, the sound of the musician's instrument, and, in interaction with the groove of the other musicians\", which he calls \"collective\" groove\". Minute rhythmic variations by the rhythm section members such as the bass player can dramatically change the feel as a band plays a song, even for a simple singer-songwriter groove.\n\nUK musicologist Richard Middleton (1999) notes that while \"the concept of \"groove\"\" has \"long [been] familiar in musicians' own usage\", musicologists and theorists have only more recently begun to analyze this concept. Middleton states that a groove \"... marks an understanding of rhythmic patterning that underlies its role in producing the characteristic rhythmic 'feel' of a piece\". He notes that the \"feel created by a repeating framework\" is also modified with variations. \"Groove\", in terms of pattern-sequencing, is also known as \"shuffle note\"—where there is deviation from exact step positions.\n\nWhen the musical slang phrase \"Being in the groove\" is applied to a group of improvisers, this has been called \"an advanced level of development for any improvisational music group\", which is \"equivalent to Bohm and Jaworski's descriptions of an evoked field\", which systems dynamics scholars claim are \"forces of unseen connection that directly influence our experience and behaviour\". Peter Forrester and John Bailey argue that the \"chances of achieving this higher level of playing\" (i.e., attain a \"groove\") are improved when the musicians are \"open to other's musical ideas\", \"finding ways of complementing other participant's musical ideas\", and \"taking risks with the music\".\n\nTurry and Aigen cite Feld's definition of groove as \"an intuitive sense of style as process, a perception of a cycle in motion, a form or organizing pattern being revealed, a recurrent clustering of elements through time\". Aigen states that \"when [a] groove is established among players, the musical whole becomes greater than the sum of its parts, enabling a person [...] to experience something beyond himself which he[/she] cannot create alone (Aigen 2002, p.34)\".\n\nJeff Pressing's 2002 article claimed that a \"groove or feel\" is \"a cognitive temporal phenomenon emerging from one or more carefully aligned concurrent rhythmic patterns, characterized by...perception of recurring pulses, and subdivision of structure in such pulses...perception of a cycle of time, of length 2 or more pulses, enabling identification of cycle locations, and...effectiveness of engaging synchronizing body responses (e.g. dance, foot-tapping)\".\n\nThe \"groove\" has been cited as an example of sensory-motor coupling between neural systems. Sensory-motor coupling is the coupling or integration of the sensory system and motor system. Sensorimotor integration is not a static process. For a given stimulus, there is no one single motor command. \"Neural responses at almost every stage of a sensorimotor pathway are modified at short and long timescales by biophysical and synaptic processes, recurrent and feedback connections, and learning, as well as many other internal and external variables\". Recent research has shown that at least some styles of modern groove-oriented rock music are characterized by an \"aesthetics of exactitude\" and the strongest groove stimulation could be observed for drum patterns without microtiming deviations.\n\nThe \"groove\" is also associated with funk performers, such as James Brown's drummers Clyde Stubblefield and Jabo Starks, and with soul music. \"In the 1950s, when 'funk' and 'funky' were used increasingly as adjectives in the context of soul music—the meaning being transformed from the original one of a pungent odor to a re-defined meaning of a strong, distinctive groove.\" As \"[t]he soul dance music of its day, the basic idea of funk was to create as intense a groove as possible.\"\nWhen a drummer plays a groove that \"is very solid and with a great feel...\", this is referred to informally as being \"in the pocket\"; when a drummer \"maintains this feel for an extended period of time, never wavering, this is often referred to as a deep pocket.\"\n\nA concept similar to \"groove\" or \"swing\" is also used in other African-American genres such as hip hop. The rhythmic groove that jazz artists call a sense of “swing” is sometimes referred to as having \"flow\" in the hip hop scene. \"Flow is as elemental to hip hop as the concept of swing is to jazz\". Just as the jazz concept of \"swing\" involves performers deliberately playing behind or ahead of the beat, the hip-hop concept of flow is about \"funking with one's expectations of time\"—that is, the rhythm and pulse of the music. \"Flow is not about \"what\" is being said so much as \"how\" one is saying it\".\n\nIn some more traditional styles of jazz, the musicians often use the word \"swing\" to describe the sense of rhythmic cohesion of a skilled group. However, since the 1950s, musicians from the organ trio and latin jazz subgenres have also used the term \"groove\". Jazz flute player Herbie Mann talks a lot about \"the groove.\" In the 1950s, Mann \"locked into a Brazilian groove in the early '60s, then moved into a funky, soulful groove in the late '60s and early '70s. By the mid-'70s he was making hit disco records, still cooking in a rhythmic groove.\" He describes his approach to finding the groove as follows: \"All you have to do is find the waves that are comfortable to float on top of.\" Mann argues that the \"epitome of a groove record\" is \"\"Memphis Underground\" or \"Push Push\"\", because the \"rhythm section [is] locked all in one perception.\"\nIn Jamaican reggae, dancehall, and dub music, the creole term \"riddim\" is used to describe the rhythm patterns created by the drum pattern or a prominent bassline. In other musical contexts a \"riddim\" would be called a \"groove\" or beat. One of the widely copied \"riddims\", \"Real Rock\", was recorded in 1967 by Sound Dimension. \"It was built around a single, emphatic bass note followed by a rapid succession of lighter notes. The pattern repeated over and over hypnotically. The sound was so powerful that it gave birth to an entire style of reggae meant for slow dancing called \"rub a dub.\"\"\n\nInfluenced by the sound of Bad Brains, in the 1990s the term \"groove\" was also used to describe elements of a form of thrash metal called groove metal, which is based around the use of mid-tempo thrash riffs and detuned power chords played with heavy syncopation. \"Speed wasn’t the main point anymore, it was what Pantera singer Phil Anselmo called the 'power groove.' Riffs became unusually heavy without the need of growling or the extremely distorted guitars of death metal, rhythms depended more on a heavy groove.\" Groove metal drums typically use double-bass drumming, with emphasis on using the double bass drum in waves, rather than rapid fire double bass and blast beats used in extreme metal styles. Uncommon time signatures and polyrhythms are typical for some bands, and generally these bands put heavy emphasis on the changing beat.\n\nWith heavy metal, the term \"groove\" can also be associated with stoner metal, sludge metal, doom metal and death metal genres as well as djent.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48266768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48266768", "title": "Israeli Documentary Filmmakers Forum", "text": "Israeli Documentary Filmmakers Forum\n\nThe Israeli Documentary Filmmakers Forum is an Israeli Nonprofit organization foster documentary films and series.\nThe Israeli Documentary Filmmakers Forum include over 450 members.\nIn 2006 the forum initiated and organized an annual competition, called \"The Israeli Documentary Film Competition\".\nThe forum held a long-standing struggle to invest more money and get more broadcast time for original Israeli documentary projects in the Israeli television channels.\n\nThe current forum's chairwoman is Osnat Trabelsi.\nHer predecessors were Uri Rosenwaks,\nAvishai Kfir and Naftali Glicksberg.\n\n"}
{"id": "47240836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47240836", "title": "KBC (TV channel)", "text": "KBC (TV channel)\n\nEl Khabar Broadcasting Company (), or simply KBC (), is an Algerian private television channel, owned by El Khabar Group. It was set up in December 25, 2013 by Ali Djerri, and is headquartered in the city of Algiers.\n\nKBC TV was founded on 25 December 2013, it has started to broadcast its programs on 25 December 2013. In May 2014, the Ambassador of the United States in Algeria Henry S. Ensher visited the headquarters of the channel in Algiers.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48253908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48253908", "title": "Kagoshima City Museum of Art", "text": "Kagoshima City Museum of Art\n\n\n"}
{"id": "372907", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372907", "title": "List of Italian comedians", "text": "List of Italian comedians\n\nThis is a list of Italian comedians sorted by last name:\n\n"}
{"id": "38729372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38729372", "title": "List of lost silent films (1910–1914)", "text": "List of lost silent films (1910–1914)\n\nThis is a list of lost silent films that were released from 1910 to 1914.\n"}
{"id": "12027380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12027380", "title": "Nihongami", "text": "Nihongami\n\nNihongami (日本髪), is one of many traditional Japanese hairstyles, dating to the Edo period, today most often seen on \"maiko\" (geisha apprentices). Traditionally, two sides of the hair stick out until it curves to the back. The hair is pulled in the back as well in the front.\n\nOther maiko hairstyles include wareshinobu (only worn during the actual apprenticeship, with a round curve on the top and sides and a round bun in the middle), Ofuku, Yakko-shimada, Katsuyama, and Sakko. Gion Kobu maiko wear a special hairstyle for the Miyako Odori.\n\nNihongami requires special combs and supplies, such as a special wax called Bintsuke. Kanzashi, special hair ornaments, usually accompany this style.\n\nOther Japanese hairstyles:\n"}
{"id": "1867989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1867989", "title": "Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide", "text": "Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide\n\nThe Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide (or Official Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide) is an annually published comic book price guide widely considered the primary authority on the subject of American comic book grading and pricing in the hobby/industry. \nMany observers tie in the growth of the direct market distribution system and comic book specialty shops to the general acceptance of Overstreet's annual guide as a standardized inventory and pricing system.\n\nBegun in 1970 by Robert M. Overstreet as a guide for fellow fans of Golden Age and Silver Age comics, the \"Overstreet\" guide has expanded to cover virtually the entire history of the American comics publication as far back as the Victorian Age and Platinum Age. The annual edition also covers promotional comics (giveaways and advertising) and \"big little books,\" while continually updating new publications and market reports that cover the prior year of market activity.\n\nOverstreet's annual guide to the comic book collecting hobby has itself become a collectible, and since the 1980s each edition of the \"Price Guide\" includes a page listing collector's values for older editions, with hardcover editions, in particular, selling for a premium. Currently, the \"Price Guide\" is published in four formats: hardcover, softcover, a larger, ring-bound edition and an electronic edition, often with multiple covers for each version.\n\nRobert M. Overstreet grew up as a comic book, coin, and Indian arrowhead collector. In the 1960s, after abandoning a project to create an arrowhead price guide, Overstreet turned his attention to comics, which had no definitive guide.\n\nComic back-issue prices had stabilized by the end of the 1960s, and, Jerry Bails, who had recently published the \"Collector’s Guide to the First Heroic Age\", was considering creating a comic book price guide. He was contacted by Overstreet, who was doing the same thing. Bails' extensive notes, supplemented by Overstreet's study of dealer listings, \"became a backbone to the \"Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide\".\" \n\nUnder the auspices of Overstreet Publications, the first \"Comic Book Price Guide\" was published in November 1970. Priced at $5, saddle-stitched and published in a print run of 1000 (a second edition of 800 was released subsequently), the book included 218 pages of listings. Among other things, Overstreet's guide included inventory lists, and it instantly became an invaluable resource tool for comic book collectors and dealers. By 1976, the guide had achieved national distribution.\n\nAn early decision was made by author to exclude the niche of underground comix, an adult-oriented expression of the genre that Mr. Overstreet had no interest in documenting, for reasons he has never made public, despite the book being promoted by its publisher as \"the most complete listing of comics from the 1500s to the present.\"\n\nThroughout the 1980s and 1990s, Overstreet also produced publications that would serve price updates regarding newer comics releases from the present, to selected titles dating from the Silver Age, including a price guide to current and valuable comics, as well as comic book and collector news, and interviews. There was also some editorial content from the publishers, and from polled bookstore owners. Various incarnations of the publication (which were published quarterly to bi-monthly, and eventually monthly) included \"Overstreet's Comic Book Price Update\", \"Overstreet's Comics Price Bulletin\",\"Overstreet Comic Book Monthly\", and \"Overstreet's Fan\", with this last incarnation showing a great deal of similarity to the successful comics news magazine \"\". Overstreet also published twenty-one issues of \"Comic Book Marketplace\" between Mar./Apr. 1993 and January 1995. Ultimately, most titles were canceled, including \"Overstreet's Fan\" which ceased publication in 1997.\n\nOverstreet sold the business to Gemstone Publishing in 1994, and continues to serve as author of the annual guides and associated publications.\n\nIn July 2003, Gemstone attempted another monthly by publishing \"Overstreet's Comic Price Review\", which ran only for nineteen issues.\n\nThe 48th edition (2018-2019) of the \"Overstreet Comic Book Price Guide\" went on sale July 18, 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "38060068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38060068", "title": "Panto!", "text": "Panto!\n\nPanto! is a 2012 one-off Christmas special, made by Baby Cow Productions and broadcast by ITV on Thursday 27 December 2012.\nThe special centres on Lewis Loud, a local Morecambe disk jockey in his stage debut of Dick Whittington \nat the Grand Theatre, Lancaster as Jack the Lad.\n\nLewis Loud (John Bishop) is doing his early morning radio show at Morecambe FM with his less than impressed producer Deborah (Lisa Jackson) at his side. After the show, Lewis heads to rehearsals for his first ever pantomime Dick Whittington where a romance between him and Dick, Tamsin (Sheridan Smith) has been blossoming. Tamsin is also known as 'Mad Mindy, The Axe Murderer' from the nation's favourite soap. A full dress-rehearsal has been called for the show by Producer Di (Samantha Spiro) as tensions begin to build. Di's nervous daughter Chantelle (Ami Metcalf) stars as the obvious miscast love interest of Dick while Director Francis (Mark Benton) tries hard to pull the show together while Di keeps interfering with his decisions. Johnny Darby (Michael Cochrane) a famous Channel 5 star goes into drag while accident prone Chesney Hawkes tries to make the show. While all this is happening, Lewis' son Paul (played by Bishop's real-life son Daniel) is dropped off with him while Lewis' ex-wife Gina (Kaye Wragg) and her new boyfriend Tony (Trevor Dwyer-Lynch) go on an exotic holiday that they won by creating a jingle for a toilet company. Tamsin however gets offered by her agent Jerry (Kenneth Cranham) to go on Celebrity Sleigh Ride, a new reality show which sees celebrities battling to the North Pole with a vote-off day to day. Tamsin takes the offer with her agent also offering Lewis to go but he declines to face his responsibility with Paul. The cast is then reformed to match the show with Paul playing the cat and Greg Chip (Dean Whatton) the original cat playing Dick. Gina dumps Tony to be on her own after coming back from the airport after their flights were cancelled as the toilet company went bust. At the end, Lewis plays football with Paul after the show was a success.\n\n"}
{"id": "18725879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18725879", "title": "Polideportivo Vitoria-Gasteiz", "text": "Polideportivo Vitoria-Gasteiz\n\nPolideportivo Vitoria-Gasteiz is a multi-use sports complex located in Nejapa, El Salvador. The sports complex is mainly used for its soccer facility. The soccer field is the home field of Nejapa F.C., a first division soccer team with a capacity of 2,000. \n\nIt is named after the town of Vitoria-Gasteiz.\n"}
{"id": "19855868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19855868", "title": "SBK-08: Superbike World Championship", "text": "SBK-08: Superbike World Championship\n\nSBK-08: Superbike World Championship (known as SBK Superbike World Championship in North America) is the official video game for the 2008 Superbike World Championship season. It features 22 official riders and 12 official race tracks.\n\nThe game was going to be planned for the Nintendo DS and the Nintendo Wii but was cancelled.\n\nThe European version of PlayStation 3 release lacked Playstation trophies support.\n\nSBK08 received mixed reviews, with an average of 65% on GameRankings. It's owest score was 55% from Play, and highest 7/10 from Total PC Gaming.\n"}
{"id": "47804107", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47804107", "title": "Showbiz Unlimited", "text": "Showbiz Unlimited\n\nShowbiz Unlimited is a 30 minute late-night showbiz news and talk show aired over Intercontinental Broadcasting Corporation Channel 13. It is produced by Philippine Showbiz Republic, the fastest growing showbiz news portal in the country, founded in April 2014 and operated by DCR Managers, Inc. and aired every Saturday at 11:00 p.m. until 11:30 p.m. (PST) over IBC 13. The segments of the program, are \"PNB: Pinakamainit na Balita\" (showbiz news), \"KBP: Kilig Balita Pa More\" (updates on Philippine showbiz loveteams, ex. KathNiel, JaDine, AlDub), \"BlindFold\" (blind item revealing) and \"Man On The Street\", question and answer.\n\nInitially, Showbiz Unlimited, was an online podcast show thru their website, and due to public demand, it went into television. PMPC membered-columnist Rommel Placente and Mildred Bacud, are the main hosts of the program, while Marla David served as the news anchor and Rodel Fernando worked as the segment host. \n\nCurrently, SU is now on season break. It will return on November 7, 2015.\n"}
{"id": "8648013", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8648013", "title": "Soviet montage theory", "text": "Soviet montage theory\n\nSoviet montage theory is an approach to understanding and creating cinema that relies heavily upon editing (\"montage\" is French for \"assembly\" or \"editing\"). It is the principal contribution of Soviet film theorists to global cinema, and brought formalism to bear on filmmaking.\n\nAlthough Soviet filmmakers in the 1920s disagreed about how exactly to view montage, Sergei Eisenstein marked a note of accord in \"A Dialectic Approach to Film Form\" when he noted that montage is \"the nerve of cinema\", and that \"to determine the nature of montage is to solve the specific problem of cinema\". Its influence is far reaching commercially, academically, and politically. Alfred Hitchcock cites editing (and montage indirectly) as the lynchpin of worthwhile filmmaking. In fact, montage is demonstrated in the majority of narrative fiction film available today. Post-Soviet film theories relied extensively on montage's redirection of film analysis toward language, a literal grammar of film. A semiotic understanding of film, for example, is indebted to and in contrast with Sergei Eisenstein's wanton transposition of language \"in ways that are altogether new.\" While several Soviet filmmakers, such as Lev Kuleshov, Dziga Vertov, Esfir Shub and Vsevolod Pudovkin put forth explanations of what constitutes the montage effect, Eisenstein's view that \"montage is an idea that arises from the collision of independent shots\" wherein \"each sequential element is perceived not \"next\" to the other, but on \"top\" of the other\" has become most widely accepted.\n\nThe production of films—how and under what conditions they are made—was of crucial importance to Soviet leadership and filmmakers. Films that focused on individuals rather than masses were deemed counterrevolutionary, but not exclusively so. The collectivization of filmmaking was central to the programmatic realization of the Communist state. Kino-Eye forged a film and newsreel collective that sought the dismantling of bourgeois notions of artistry above the needs of the people. Labor, movement, the machinery of life, and the everyday of Soviet citizens coalesced in the content, form, and productive character of Kino-eye repertoire.\n\nThe bulk of influence, beginning from the October 1917 Revolution until the late 1950s (oftentimes referred to as the Stalin era), brought a cinematic language to the fore and provided the groundwork for contemporary editing and documentary techniques, as well as providing a starting point for more advanced theories.\n\nMontage theory, in its rudimentary form, asserts that a series of connected images allows for complex ideas to be extracted from a sequence and, when strung together, constitute the entirety of a film's ideological and intellectual power. In other words, the editing of shots rather than the content of the shot alone constitutes the force of a film. Many directors still believe that montage is what defines cinema against other specific media. Vsevolod Illarionovich Pudovkin, for example, claimed that words were thematically inadequate, despite silent cinema's use of intertitles to make narrative connections between shots. Steve Odin traces montage back to Charles Dickens' use of the concept to track parallel action across a narrative.\n\nConfined to the project of Soviet expansion, film theorists of the USSR cared little for questions of meaning. Instead, the writing sought the praxis of filmmaking and theory. The pragmatic and revolutionary application of these movements stands in harsh contrast to ideas being developed simultaneously in Western Europe. Socialist Realism characterized the emergence of art within the constraints of communism. Constructivism, an extension of Futurism, sought a pre-modern integration of art into the everyday. Soviet theorists had a clear job before them: theorize in order to aid the cause of the Communist Party. The ethical and ontological dimensions explored in the West were tabled in lieu of film's potential to reach the millions in far reaches of Soviet territory, where literacy was scarce. Film was a tool with which the state could advance the dictatorship of the proletariat. It was no surprise that most of the Soviet film theorists were also filmmakers.\n\n\nDistance, lack of access, and regulations meant that the formal theory of montage was not widely known until well after its explosion in the Soviet Union. It was only until 1929, for example, that Eisenstein's theories reached Britain in \"Close Up\". Additionally, filmmakers in Japan during the 1920s were \"quite unaware of montage\" according to Eisenstein. Despite this, both nations produced films that used something tantamount to continuity editing. According to Chris Robé, the internal strife between Soviet theories of montage mirrored the liberal and radical debates in the West. In his book \"Left of Hollywood: Cinema, Modernism, and the Emergence of U.S. Radical Film Culture\", Robé illustrates the Western Left's attempts to tone-down revolutionary language and psychoanalyze characters on the screen. Hanns Sach's essays \"Kitsch\"(1932) and \"Film Psychology\" (1928) are used here to demonstrate Kitsch's aesthetic distinction from the Realist project of the Soviet Union, and also to affirm Kitsch's ability to create a more powerful affect than realism ever could. As such, Sach argued, a psychological montage was recognizable in all films, even abstract ones which held no resemblance to classic Soviet cinema. Robé also cites Zygmunt Tonecky's essay \"The Preliminary of Art Film\" as a reformulation of montage theory in service of abstract cinema. Zygmunt's argument centers around his disagreement with Eisenstein that montage was logical, but rather psychological. As such, abstract films defamiliarize objects and have the potential to create critical spectators. Defamiliarization was seen a catalyst for revolutionary thinking. Clearly, the adoption of Montage Theory was rarely hard and fast, but rather a stepping stone for other theories.\n\nThe split between the West and Soviet filmmaking became readily apparent with André Bazin's dismissal of montage and Cahiers du Cinéma's assertion of the primacy of auteurs. The belief that a still, highly composed, and individuated shot marked cinema's artistic significance was an affront to the dialectical method. That individual directors could compose and produce films by themselves (at least in terms of credit and authorship) made impossible the collectivization of filmmaking. Eisenstein's later work (\"Alexander Nevsky\" [1938] and \"Ivan the Terrible\" [1944-1946]), would undercut his earlier film's appeal to masses by locating the narrative on a single individual.\n\nThe term montage has undergone radical popular redefinition in the last 30 years. It is commonly used to refer to a sequence of short shots used to demonstrate the passage of prolonged time. A famous example is the training sequence in \"Rocky\" (Avildsen 1976) in which weeks of preparation on represented through a sequence of disparate exercise footage. \"Ferris Bueller's Day Off\" (Hughes 1986) demonstrates the same concept in order to collapse several hours into a few short minutes of footage throughout Chicago. This differs entirely from even the most conservative interpretations of montage in the Soviet Union, wherein time is subordinate to the collision of images and their symbolic meaning.\n\n\nIn \"The General Line\" (referred in the text as \"The Old and the New\") the pathos of the milk separator is localized in order to examine the (in)voluntary contamination of pathos by themes and supposedly neutral elements. Like \"Potemkin\", \"The General Line\" invoked the theme of \"collective unity\" within a community. \"And all this because the scheme 'of a chain reaction'- buildup of intensity- explosion- leaps from explosion to explosion- gives a clearer structural picture of the leaps from one state to another, characteristic for the ecstasy of particulars accumulating into the pathos of the whole.\" However, a number of factors separate the scenes' pathos. The use of a new 28-inch lens allowed for a simultaneous splitting and unifying effect in The General Line. Also, milk's transformation to cream was a metaphorical device used to stand-in for the peasants' own transformation. These, and other examples, illustrate that pathos, as determined by exterior features, is incomplete. Rather, pathos and emotion were self-determined and intrinsic to form. The example of several painterly renderings of Christ's expulsion of the moneylenders and his eventual resurrection demonstrate a consistent pathos, despite different artists and moments. This suggests a parallel \"inner discovery\" process embedded in thematic works. Finally, Eisenstein identifies the dialectical process as the precipitating force for unearthing pathos. \"The law of construction of processes- the basis of their form- in these cases will be identical. The effectiveness of the results in the norms of each area is equally 'transported beyond the limits' of these norms and the areas themselves as well. The actual processes- according to the same formula of ex stasis- is 'being beside oneself'. And this formula is nothing but the moment (instant) of the culmination of the dialecti law of transition of quantity into quality[...]The areas of application are different. But the stages are identical. The nature of the effects achieved is different. But the 'formulas' at the basis of these highest stages of manifestation, independent of the areas themselves, are identical.\"\n\n\nIn his later writings, Eisenstein argues that montage, especially intellectual montage, is an alternative system to continuity editing. He argued that \"Montage is conflict\" (dialectical) where new ideas, emerge from the collision of the montage sequence (synthesis) and where the new emerging ideas are not innate in any of the images of the edited sequence. A new concept explodes into being. His understanding of montage, thus, illustrates Marxist dialectics.\n\nConcepts similar to intellectual montage would arise during the first half of the 20th century, such as Imagism in poetry (specifically Pound's Ideogrammic Method), or Cubism's attempt at synthesizing multiple perspectives into one painting. The idea of associated concrete images creating a new (often abstract) image was an important aspect of much early Modernist art.\n\nEisenstein relates this to non-literary \"writing\" in pre-literate societies, such as the ancient use of pictures and images in sequence, that are therefore in \"conflict\". Because the pictures are relating to each other, their collision creates the meaning of the \"writing\". Similarly, he describes this phenomenon as dialectical materialism.\n\nEisenstein argued that the new meaning that emerged from conflict is the same phenomenon found in the course of historical events of social and revolutionary change. He used intellectual montage in his feature films (such as \"Battleship Potemkin\" and \"October\") to portray the political situation surrounding the Bolshevik Revolution.\n\nHe also believed that intellectual montage expresses how everyday thought processes happen. In this sense, the montage will in fact form thoughts in the minds of the viewer, and is therefore a powerful tool for propaganda.\n\nIntellectual montage follows in the tradition of the ideological Russian Proletcult Theatre which was a tool of political agitation. In his film \"Strike\", Eisenstein includes a sequence with cross-cut editing between the slaughter of a bull and police attacking workers. He thereby creates a film metaphor: assaulted workers = slaughtered bull. The effect that he wished to produce was not simply to show images of people's lives in the film but more importantly to shock the viewer into understanding the reality of their own lives. Therefore, there is a revolutionary thrust to this kind of film making.\n\nEisenstein discussed how a perfect example of his theory is found in his film \"October\", which contains a sequence where the concept of \"God\" is connected to class structure, and various images that contain overtones of political authority and divinity are edited together in descending order of impressiveness so that the notion of God eventually becomes associated with a block of wood. He believed that this sequence caused the minds of the viewer to automatically reject all political class structures.\n\nThough montage was widely acknowledged in principle as the mechanism that constitutes cinema, it was not universally believed as cinema's essence. Lev Kuleshov, for example, expressed that though montage makes cinema possible, it does not hold as much significance as performance, a type of internal montage. Additionally, Kuleshov expressed the subservience of montage to the will of those who deploy it. In his comparisons between Russian, European, and American cinema prior to the Russian Revolution, Kuleshov could not identify a unifying theory between them and concluded a relativistic approach to filmmaking, opting for something similar to later auteur theories. The implication of an exclusive focus on montage is one in which performances become unconvincing given the actors jilted belief in his/her own significance.\n\nKino-eye, composed of various newsreel correspondents, editors, and directors, also took indirect aim at montage as the overarching principle of cinema. Kino-eye was interested in capturing life of the proletariat and actualizing revolution, and was accused by Eisenstein of being devoid of ideological method. Films like Dziga Vertov's \"The Man with a Movie Camera\" utilized montage (almost all films did at the time), but packaged images without discernible political connection between shots. Vertov, on the other hand, saw the fictional revolutions represented in Eisenstein's films as lacking the visceral weight of unscripted action.\n\nSocialist Realism speaks to the project of art within Stalin's period. Art, inherently implosive when funded and regulated by the state, requires form and content to avoid neutrality. The five-year plan, which demanded workers to \"overfill the plan\" required filmmakers to exceed baseline standards. Naturalism, in which art can only express its subject singularly rather than relationally, is incapable of exposing the structural and systemic characteristics of phenomena. Realism, on the other hand, is concerned with relationships, causality, and the production of informed spectators. As such, Socialist Realism was primarily a literary movement, characterized by works such as Maxim Gorky's novel \"Mother\". Filmmakers took cues from their literary counterparts, implementing a narrative and character style reminiscent of communist cultural values. Below are some factors that influenced the cinematic Socialist Realist approach.\n\n\nKinoks (\"cinema-eye men\") / Kinoglaz (\"Kino-eye\") – The group and movement founded by Dziga Vertov. The Council of Three was the official voice of Kino-eye, issuing statements on the group's behalf. The demands, elaborated in films, conferences, and future essays, would seek to situate Kino-eye as the preeminent Soviet filmmaking collective. In the Art of the Cinema, Kuleshov issues a challenge to non-fiction filmmakers: \"Ideologues of the non-fictional film!- give up convincing yourselves of the correctness of your viewpoints: they are indisputable. Create or point out methods of creating genuine, exciting newsreels. ... When it is possible to film easily and comfortably, without having to consider either location, or the light conditions, then the authentic flowering of the non-fictional film will take place, depicting our environment, our construction, our land.\"\n\n\n\"Above all, I constructed a true cinema-object not on top of everyday life, but out of everyday life. The story offered by comrade Verevkin's script did not weigh life down in my work. Instead, the everyday life of the Young Pioneers absorbed the story, making it possible to capture the essence of the young Leninists in their spontaneous actuality [or immediate reality, neposredstvennoi deistvitel'nosti]. This materialist approach freed us from art cinema's bourgeois illustration of a literary text, overcame the \"government-issue\" formalism of the newsreel, and allowed us to productively establish devices for filming with a socialist character.\"\n\nKristin Romberg mediates the conflictual but parallel nature of Kino-eye and Gan's constructivism by identifying empathy as the central dividing element. \"Island of the Young Pioneers\" enters into a role-playing relationship between and with children that seeks to build an understanding between them. This, along with the focus on radicalizing children specifically, was inconceivable within Kino-eye's framework. Vertov, concerned with machinery, movement and labor, universalized Kino-eye's strategy of constant critique, with little room for empathy and nuance.\n\nIn this essay, Eisenstein explicates how art is created and sustained through a dialectical process. He begins with this supposition:\n\nFrom this, the form an art takes grants it its dialectical and political dimension. The material from which it is created is inherently conflictual and holds the seeds of its own destruction (antithesis). Without this understanding, montage is merely a succession of images reminiscent of DW Griffith's continuity editing. Here, it is important to note that, for Eisenstein, art form is inherently political. The danger is in claiming it's neutral until a story or interpretation are attached. While theories of montage prior to this sought political mobilization, Dramaturgy took montage beyond the cinema and implicated film form in broader Marxist struggle.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20264425", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20264425", "title": "Spectromorphology", "text": "Spectromorphology\n\nSpectromorphology is the perceived sonic footprint of a sound spectrum as it manifests in time. A descriptive spectromorphological analysis of sound is sometimes used in the analysis of electroacoustic music, especially acousmatic music. The term was coined by Denis Smalley in 1986 and is considered the most adequate English term to designate the field of sound research associated with the French writer, composer, and academic, Pierre Schaeffer .\n\nSchaeffer's work at INA/GRM in Paris, beginning in the late 1940s, culminated in the publication of the book Traité des objets musicaux in 1966. Smalley's notion of spectromorphology builds upon Schaeffer's theories relating to the use of a classification system for various categories of sound.\n\nSmalley's term refers to the descriptive analysis of perceived morphological developments in sound spectra over time, and it implies that the \"spectro\" cannot exist without the morphology: something has to be shaped and that something must have sonic content (Smalley, 1986, 1997).\n\nThe theoretical framework of spectro-morphology is articulated mainly in four parts: \n\nSmalley defines three different spectral typologies that exist in what he calls the noise-note continuum. This continuum is subdivided into three principal elements: \n\nSmalley also designates different morphological archetypes:\n\n"}
{"id": "22167409", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22167409", "title": "Spellbound Pictures", "text": "Spellbound Pictures\n\nSpellbound Pictures Ltd., USA LLC is a film and television production and distribution company founded by Mark McClafferty and Pamela Edwards McClafferty in 1996. \n\nSpellbound Pictures completed a $60,000,000.00, 12 picture deal with Ellipse/Canal +, the French Entertainment giant in 1996 to supply the United Artist Theatre Circuit with a steady flow of family friendly films. It was under this deal that Spellbound Pictures along with Mehra Entertainment completed \"The Climb\", starring John Hurt, Gregory Smith, and David Strathairn, which won eight international film festival awards and was released February 26, 1999.\n\nhttps://www.facebook.com/spellboundpictures\nhttp://www.spellboundpictures.com/theclimb/production.html\nhttps://twitter.com/spellboundpic\nhttps://www.imdb.com/name/nm0565581/\n"}
{"id": "2688365", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2688365", "title": "Spiritualists' National Union", "text": "Spiritualists' National Union\n\nThe Spiritualists' National Union (SNU) is a Spiritualist organisation, founded in the United Kingdom in 1901, and is one of the largest spiritualist groups in the world. Its motto is \"Light, Nature, Truth\".\n\nOver its history, it has organised test cases regarding the legal status of spiritualist mediums, with regard to such matters as exemption from compulsory military National service. In legal terms, spiritualist mediums were considered to violate such laws as the Vagrancy Act 1824, which outlawed fortune telling, and the Witchcraft Act 1735. The Union campaigned against these laws for many years. They were eventually repealed by the Fraudulent Mediums Act 1951, which legalised the practice of mediums unless it was shown that they were profiting financially from a fraudulent service. This act was repealed in April 2008, and fraudulent mediums are now covered by consumer protection legislation, namely The Consumer Protection from Unfair Trading Regulations 2008.\n\nIt has also performed more everyday services, such as organising war memorial services in the wake of the First World War.\n\nIn 2002 there was some controversy surrounding the removal of Kevin West, the then leader of Waterloo spiritualist church. After the church removed West from his position in 2001, he refused to step down, igniting a conflict that saw both sides changing locks to keep each other out of the building before eventually losing the dispute in 2002.\n\nThe Union later organised educational courses in spiritualism-related subjects, and has participated in scientific research into mediumship.\n\nIn 1995 the SNU acquired the publication \"Psychic News\", which it ran until it was closed in July 2011, later reopening under different ownership.\n\nMission Statement and Goals\nIn 2000 the SNU adopted the following mission statement:\n\nTo Promote the Religion and Religious Philosophy of Spiritualism as based upon The Seven Principles\n\nIt also re-defined its goals as:\n\n\nIn the same year it began work on forming what is now called the Philosophy & Ethics Committee. It was created following a series of complaints from members about the ethics of certain SNU Trust Investments. The issue was originally highlighted by an internet article about the use of what are termed \"surplus funds\".\n\nThe SNU was founded on 18 October 1901 as the Association of the Spiritualists' National Union Ltd. In 1916, it campaigned to get government recognition for the religion of spiritualism.\n\nThe Philosophy of SNU\n\nSpiritualism is based upon seven principles. The Principles are not intended to be binding rules or the basis of a dogma but to provide a moral and ethical framework upon which people can base their lives.\n\n1. The Fatherhood of God.\nThe core belief of the religious philosophy of Spiritualism is the acceptance of a Divine Energy. This force, whatever name given to it, has created all there is and sustains all its creation.\nThe ‘Spirit of God’ exists within and around everything. It is within all of us: we are all children of God so are part of one family. We acknowledge God as our Father.\n\n2. The Brotherhood of Man.\nWe are all part of the universal creative force and therefore one family in God. The operation of true Brotherhood throughout the word would create betterment to the lives of many, bringing equality, security and peace. Spiritualists try to understand the needs of others and help all people regardless of race, colour or creed\n\n3. The Communion of Spirits and the Ministry of Angels.\nCommunion with divine energy is a natural and essential part of existence. Communication between Spirit itself and its creations is an inbuilt ability. Spiritualists use this ability for communication directly, or via a medium, between those in the spirit world and ourselves. This is not supernatural; it is a normal activity. The main purpose of communication with the spirit world is to provide the evidence which supports our philosophy. The Ministry of Angels brings enhanced wisdom to enlighten the individual, society and the world in which we live. This includes those who are dedicated to the welfare and service of mankind bringing inspiration guidance and healing.\n\n4. The Continuous Existence of the human soul.\nSpirit is part of the ‘Creative Force’ and thus indestructible. Energy cannot be destroyed; it can only change its form. After death the physical body is left behind whilst the soul continues to exist in a different dimension that we call the spirit world. The individual personality continues unchanged by the event we call ‘death’.\n\n5. Personal Responsibility.\nIn His wisdom, God has given us enormous potential; we can use that potential to improve our own lives and the lives of others. We have the ability to make decisions throughout our lives as we see fit. What each of us makes of our life is our Personal Responsibility no one can replace or override that right. No other person or influence can put right our wrongdoings.\n\n6. Compensation and Retribution hereafter for all the good and evil deeds done on earth.\nThis Principle expresses the natural law of ‘cause and effect’. This law operates now, on earth, as well as in the spirit world. As we move through life making choices, the outcome of those choices affects our soul growth. When we leave this earthly life there will be no divine judgement. We will have the opportunity to reassess, take stock and decide what might have been done differently.\n\n7. Eternal Progress open to every human soul.\nEternity does not begin at death; Progress is open to all now! Any action, or intent to change, to promote soul growth and progression, creates a positive reaction. There will always be the opportunity to develop and move forward, no one is ever deprived of the all embracing love of God.\n\nThese principles were the summary of faith of Emma Hardinge Britten, a pioneer for the UK's Spiritualist Movement and were adopted by the SNU. Emma was a medium and gifted orator and it was during her many speeches in trance state, that 'spirit communicators' gave various statements of faith. This resulted in the creation of the Seven Principles of Modern Spiritualism in the UK. Many believe that the influence of the 'spirit' of Socialist Robert Owen was paramount in this process.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52900", "title": "Spread betting", "text": "Spread betting\n\nSpread betting is any of various types of wagering on the outcome of an event where the pay-off is based on the accuracy of the wager, rather than a simple \"win or lose\" outcome, such as fixed-odds (or money-line) betting or parimutuel betting.\n\nA \"spread\" is a range of outcomes and the bet is whether the outcome will be above or below the spread. Spread betting has been a major growth market in the UK in recent years, with the number of gamblers heading towards one million. Financial spread betting (see below) can carry a high level of risk if there is no \"stop\". In the UK, spread betting is regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority rather than the Gambling Commission.\n\nThe general purpose of spread betting is to create an active market for both sides of a binary wager, even if the outcome of an event may appear \"prima facie\" to be biased towards one side or the other. In a sporting event a strong team may be matched up against a historically weaker team; almost every game has a \"favorite\" and an \"underdog\". If the wager is simply \"Will the favorite win?\", more bets are likely to be made for the favorite, possibly to such an extent that there would be very few betters willing to take the underdog.\n\nThe point spread is essentially a handicap towards the underdog. The wager becomes \"Will the favorite win by more than the point spread?\" The point spread can be moved to any level to create an equal number of participants on each side of the wager. This allows a bookmaker to act as a market maker by accepting wagers on both sides of the spread. The bookmaker charges a commission, or \"vigorish\", and acts as the counterparty for each participant. As long as the total amount wagered on each side is roughly equal, the bookmaker is unconcerned with the actual outcome; profits instead come from the commissions.\n\nBecause the spread is intended to create an equal number of wagers on either side, the implied probability is 50% for both sides of the wager. To profit, the bookmaker must pay one side (or both sides) less than this notional amount. In practice, spreads may be perceived as slightly favoring one side, and bookmakers often revise their odds to manage their event risk.\n\nOne important assumption is that to be credited with a win, either team only needs to win by the minimum of the rules of the game, without regard to the margin of victory. This implies that teams in a winning position will not necessarily try to extend their margin—and more importantly, each team is only playing to win rather than to beat the point spread. This assumption does not necessarily hold in all situations. For example, at the end of a season, the total points scored by a team can affect future events such as playoff seeding and positioning for the amateur draft, and teams may \"run up\" the score in such situations. In virtually all sports, players and other on-field contributors are forbidden from being involved in sports betting and thus have no incentive to consider the point spread during play; any attempt to manipulate the outcome of a game for gambling purposes would be considered match fixing, and the penalty is typically a lifetime banishment from the sport, such is the lack of tolerance for gambling in sport.\n\nSpread betting was invented by Charles K. McNeil, a mathematics teacher from Connecticut who became a bookmaker in Chicago in the 1940s. In North America, the gambler usually wagers that the difference between the scores of two teams will be less than or greater than the value specified by the bookmaker. An example:\n\nSpreads are frequently, though not always, specified in half-point fractions to eliminate the possibility of a tie, known as a \"push\". In the event of a push, the game is considered \"no action\", and no money is won or lost. However, this is not a desirable outcome for the sports book, as they are forced to refund every bet, and although both the book and its bettors will be even, if the cost of overhead is taken into account, the book has actually lost money by taking bets on the event. Sports books are generally permitted to state \"ties win\" or \"ties lose\" to avoid the necessity of refunding every bet.\n\nBetting on sporting events has long been the most popular form of spread betting. Whilst most bets the casino offers to players have a built in house edge, betting on the spread offers an opportunity for the astute gambler. When a casino accepts a spread bet, it gives the player the odds of 10 to 11, or -110. That means that for every 11 dollars the player wagers, the player will win 10, slightly lower than an even money bet. If team A is playing team B, the casino is not concerned with who wins the game; they are only concerned with taking an equal amount of money of both sides. For example, if one player takes team A and the other takes team B and each wager $110 to win $100, it doesn’t matter what team wins; the casino makes money. They take $100 of the $110 from the losing bet and pay the winner, keeping the extra $10 for themselves. This is the house edge. The goal of the casino is to set a line that encourages an equal amount of action on both sides, thereby guaranteeing a profit. This also explains how money can be made by the astute gambler. If casinos set lines to encourage an equal amount of money on both sides, it sets them based on the public perception of the team, not necessarily the real strength of the teams. Many things can affect public perception, which moves the line away from what the real line should be. This gap between the Vegas line, the real line, and differences between other sports books betting lines and spreads is where value can be found.\n\nA \"teaser\" is a bet that alters the spread in the gambler's favor by a predetermined margin – in American football the teaser margin is often six points. For example, if the line is 3.5 points and bettors want to place a teaser bet on the underdog, they take 9.5 points instead; a teaser bet on the favorite would mean that the gambler takes 2.5 points instead of having to give the 3.5. In return for the additional points, the payout if the gambler wins is less than even money, or the gambler must wager on more than one event and both events must win. In this way it is very similar to a parlay. At some establishments, the \"reverse teaser\" also exists, which alters the spread against the gambler, who gets paid at more than evens if the bet wins.\n\nSports spread betting began in the United Kingdom in the late 1980s to offer an alternative form of sports wagering to traditional fixed odds, or fixed-risk, betting. With fixed odds betting, a gambler places a fixed-risk stake on stated fractional or decimal odds on the outcome of a sporting event that would give a known return for that outcome occurring or a known loss if that outcome doesn’t occur (the initial stake). With sports spread betting, gamblers are instead betting on whether a specified outcome in a sports event will end up being above or below a ‘spread’ offered by a sports spread betting firm, with profits or losses determined by how much above or below the spread the final outcome finishes at.\n\nThe spread on offer will refer to the betting firm’s prediction on the range of a final outcome for a particular occurrence in a sports event e.g. the total number of goals to be scored in a football match, the number of runs to be scored by a team in a cricket match or the number of lengths between the winner and second-placed finisher in a horse race.\n\nThe gambler can elect to ‘buy’ or ‘sell’ on the spread depending on whether they think the final outcome will be higher than the top end of the spread on offer, or lower than the bottom end of the spread. The more right the gambler is then the more they will win, but the more wrong they are then the more they can lose.\n\nThe level of the gambler’s profit or loss will be determined by the stake size selected for the bet, multiplied by the number of unit points above or below the gambler’s bet level. This reflects the fundamental difference between sports spread betting and fixed odds sports betting in that both the level of winnings and level of losses are not fixed and can end up being many multiples of the original stake size selected.\n\nFor example, in a cricket match a sports spread betting firm may list the spread of a team’s predicted runs at 340 – 350. The gambler can elect to ‘buy’ at 350 if they think the team will score more than 350 runs in total, or sell at 340 if they think the team will score less than 340. If the gambler elects to buy at 350 and the team scores 400 runs in total, the gambler will have won 50 unit points multiplied by their initial stake. But if the team only scores 300 runs then the gambler will have lost 50 unit points multiplied by their initial stake.\n\nIt is important to note the difference between spreads in sports wagering in the U.S. and sports spread betting in the UK. In the U.S. betting on the spread is effectively still a fixed risk bet on a line offered by the bookmaker with a known return if the gambler correctly bets with either the underdog or the favourite on the line offered and a known loss if the gambler incorrectly bets on the line. In the UK betting above or below the spread does not have a known final profits or loss, with these figures determined by the number of unit points the level of the final outcome ends up being either above or below the spread, multiplied by the stake chosen by the gambler.\n\nFor UK spread betting firms, any final outcome that finishes in the middle of the spread will result in profits from both sides of the book as both buyers and sellers will have ended up making unit point losses. So in the example above, if the cricket team ended up scoring 345 runs both buyers at 350 and sellers at 340 would have ended up with losses of five unit points multiplied by their stake.\n\nIn addition to the spread bet, a very common \"side bet\" on an event is the \"total\" (commonly called the \"over/under\" or \"O/U\") bet. This is a bet on the total number of points scored by both teams. Suppose team A is playing team B and the total is set at 44.5 points. If the final score is team A 24, team B 17, the total is 41 and bettors who took the \"under\" will win. If the final score is team A 30, team B 31, the total is 61 and bettors who took the \"over\" will win. The total is popular because it allows gamblers to bet on their overall perception of the game (e.g., a high-scoring offensive show or a defensive battle) without needing to pick the actual winner.\n\nIn the UK, these bets are sometimes called spread bets, but rather than a simple win/loss, the bet pays more or less depending on how far from the spread the final result is.\n\nExample: In a football match the bookmaker believes that 12 or 13 corners will occur, thus the spread is set at 12–13.\n\nIn North American sports betting many of these wagers would be classified as \"over-under\" (or, more commonly today, \"total\") bets rather than spread bets. However, these are for one side or another of a total only, and do not increase the amount won or lost as the actual moves away from the bookmaker's prediction. Instead, over-under or total bets are handled much like \"point-spread\" bets on a team, with the usual 10/11 (4.55%) commission applied. Many Nevada sports books allow these bets in parlays, just like team point spread bets. This makes it possible to bet, for instance, \"team A and the over\", and be paid if \"both\" team A \"covers\" the point spread and the total score is higher than the book's prediction. (Such parlays usually pay off at odds of 13:5 with no commission charge, just as a standard two-team parlay would.)\n\nThe mathematical analysis of spreads and spread betting is a large and growing subject. For example, sports that have simple 1-point scoring systems (\"e.g.,\" baseball, hockey, and soccer) may be analysed using Poisson and Skellam statistics.\n\nBy far the largest part of the official market in the UK concerns financial instruments; the leading spread-betting companies make most of their revenues from financial markets, their sports operations being much less significant. Financial spread betting in the United Kingdom closely resembles the futures and options markets, the major differences being\n\nFinancial spread betting is a way to speculate on financial markets in the same way as trading a number of derivatives. In particular, the financial derivative Contract for difference (CFD) mirrors the spread bet in many ways. In fact, a number of offer both financial spread bets and CFDs in parallel using the same trading platform.\n\nUnlike fixed-odds betting, the amount won or lost can be unlimited as there is no single stake to limit any loss. However, it is usually possible to negotiate limits with the bookmaker:\n\nSpread betting has moved outside the ambit of sport and financial markets (that is, those dealing solely with share, bonds and derivatives), to cover a wide range of markets, such as house prices. By paying attention to the external factors, such as weather and time of day, those who are betting using a point spread can be better prepared when it comes to obtaining a favorable outcome. Additionally, by avoiding the favourite-longshot bias, where the expected returns on bets placed at shorter odds exceed that of bets placed at the longer odds, and not betting with one’s favorite team, but rather with the team that has been shown to be better when playing in a specific weather condition and time of day, the possibility of arriving at a positive outcome is increased.\n\nIn the UK and some other European countries the profit from spread betting is free from tax. The UK and some other European countries tax authorities designate financial spread betting as gambling and not investing, meaning it is free from capital gains tax and stamp tax, despite the fact that its regulated as a financial product by the Financial Conduct Authority in the UK. Most traders are also not liable for income tax unless they rely solely on their profits from financial spread betting to support themselves. The popularity of financial spread betting in the UK and some other European countries, compared to trading other speculative financial instruments such as CFDs and futures is partly due to this tax advantage. However, this also means any losses cannot be offset against future earnings for tax calculations.\n\nConversely, in most other countries financial spread betting income is considered taxable. For example, the Australian Tax Office issued a decision in March 2010 saying \"Yes, the gains from financial spread betting are assessable income under section 6-5 or section 15-15 of the ITAA 1997\". Similarly, any losses on the spread betting contracts are deductible. This has resulted in a much lower interest in financial spread betting in those countries.\n\nSuppose Lloyds Bank is trading on the market at 410p bid, and 411p offer. A spread-betting company is also offering 410-411p. We use cash bets with no definite expiry, or \"rolling daily bets\" as they are referred to by the spread betting companies.\n\nIf I think the share price is going to go up, I might bet £10 a point (\"i.e.,\" £10 per penny the shares moves) at 411p. We use the offer price since I am \"buying\" the share (betting on its increase). Note that my total loss (if Lloyds Bank went to 0p) could be up to £4110, so this is as risky as buying 1000 of the shares normally.\n\nIf a bet goes overnight, the bettor is charged a financing cost (or receives it, if the bettor is shorting the stock). This might be set at LIBOR + a certain percentage, usually around 2-3%.\n\nThus, in the example, if Lloyds Bank are trading at 411p, then for every day I keep the bet open I am charged [taking finance cost to be 7%] ((411p x 10) * 7% / 365 ) = £0.78821 (or 78.8p)\n\nOn top of this, the bettor needs an amount as collateral in the spread-betting account to cover potential losses. Usually this is either 5 or 10% of the total exposure you are taking on but can go up to 100% on illiquid stocks. In this case £4110 * 0.1 or 0.05 = £411.00 or £205.50\n\nIf at the end of the bet Lloyds Bank traded at 400-401p, I need to cover that £4110 – £400*10 (£4000) = £110 difference by putting extra deposit (or collateral) into the account.\n\nThe punter usually receives all dividends and other corporate adjustments in the financing charge each night. For example, suppose Lloyds Bank goes ex-dividend with dividend of 23.5p. The bettor receives that amount. The exact amount received varies depending on the rules and policies of the spread betting company, and the taxes that are normally charged in the home tax country of the shares.\n\n\nAccording to an article in \"The Times\" dated 10 April 2009, approximately 30,000 spread bet accounts were opened in the previous year, and that the largest study of gambling in the UK on behalf of the Gambling Commission found that serious problems developed in almost 15% of spread betters compared to 1% of other gambling. A report from Cass Business School found that only 1 in 5 gamblers ends up a winner. As noted in the report, this corresponds to the same ratio of successful gamblers in regular trading. Evidence from spread betting firms themselves actually put this closer to being 1 in 10 traders as being profitable, with a high number of clients suffering from the volatility that is supposed to be one of the benefits of spread betting.\n\n"}
{"id": "1277647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1277647", "title": "Statues (game)", "text": "Statues (game)\n\nStatues (also known as Red Light, Green Light in the United States, and Grandmother's Footsteps in the United Kingdom) is a popular children's game, often played in different countries. How the game is played varies throughout different regions of the world.\n\n\nRed Light/Green Light (sometimes abbreviated as RLGL) is a variation of statue. The \"it\" person stands at one end of the playing field, with the rest of the players at the other end. \"It\" turns their back to the others and calls out \"Green Light!\" or \"1, 2, 3! Red Light! Green Light!\" or \"Red Light! Green Light! 1, 2, 3!\" The players then run as fast as they can towards \"it\". At any time, \"it\" can face the players, calling out \"Red Light\", and the others must freeze in place. If anyone fails to stop, they are out or must return to the starting line. The first player to reach the person who is \"it\" wins and becomes \"it\" for the next round.\n\nIn the Dutch version, instead of \"Green light!\" the \"it\" person sings in a slow voice \"Annemaria\", followed by a quick and loud \"Koekkoek!\" (\"Cuckoo!\") when he/she turns around (like \"Red Light!\"). \"Koekkoek!\" is also the Dutch equivalent of a Peek-a-boo game played with babies, where the parents hide their face with their hands, then reveal themselves whilst saying \"Peek-a-boo!\" (also known in Dutch as \"Kiekeboe!\").\n\nIn this version the Curator is the \"Granny\" and does not call out anything before facing the players.\n\nWinnie the Pooh is a variation of Statues where the person playing \"Pooh\" (the Curator) usually leans against a wall and has to shout \"1, 2, 3, Winnie the Pooh, stop!\" (so it is long enough for the players to reach some distance and because of the rhyme it provides in Bulgarian, where this version comes from) before turning to face the players. Whenever a player tags Pooh they have to run so it doesn't catch them. If they manage to go back to the wall where Pooh was leaning before it catches them, they become Pooh and the game starts over. In this variation the role of Pooh is more desirable.\n\nAnother variation of the Red Light / Green Light game was altered as a team building exercise. It follows RLGL rules with exception that if anybody moves after the red light the whole team must return to the starting line. Also, the object of the game is for the players to \"steal\" an \"object\" positioned near the \"it\" person and return with it to the other side of the field. Once the \"object\" is moved it has to stay hidden from \"it\" who has several guesses as to who has it at the moment. If guessed successfully then the whole team must return to the starting line.\nUno, dos, tres, toca la pared (Spain), Un, deux trois, soleil (France), , Mugonghwa kkochi pieotseumnida (무궁화꽃이 피었습니다, lit. \"The Rose of Sharon Is Blooming\" (Korea)), Peili (tr. \"Mirror\") (Finland), Winnie the Pooh (Мечо Пух, lit. \"Pooh Bear\") (Bulgaria), (דג מלוח \"pickled herring\") (Israel), \"Annemaria Koekkoek!\" (Netherlands), \"Ziitigläse\" (tr. Reading the Newspaper) (Switzerland), Eén, twee, drie, piano! (Flanders), Un, due, tre, stella! (Italy), Un, dos, tres, pollito inglés! (tr. \"One, two, three, little english chicken!\") (Venezuela). Instead of calling out the phrase, \"Daruma-san ga koronda\", you may countdown from 10 to 1.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54090162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54090162", "title": "Suea Sung Fah", "text": "Suea Sung Fah\n\nSuea Sung Fah (; lit: \"The Tiger Commands the Heaven\") a.k.a. Legend of the Tiger is Thai TV series or \"lakorn\" aired on Thailand's Channel 7 from August 25 to October 27, 2011 on Wednesdays and Thursdays at 20:30 for 19 episodes.\n\nThe word \"Suea\" (เสือ) in Thai means \"panther\" or \"tiger\" or implied meaning may people with courageous minds or bandit.\n\nIn 1957, Thailand after World War II gangsters abound. The gangsters clashed with the police with various deadly weapons and black magic spells.\n\nWhen it was released, it was very popular. Especially in the finale, the ratings reached , the highest in 2011, and ranked # 1 throughout the 9 weeks of the broadcast., also voted as the 8th best TV series of the year from the Pantip.com\n"}
{"id": "48539746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48539746", "title": "Tainted Dreams", "text": "Tainted Dreams\n\nTainted Dreams is a soap opera web series that premiered on YouTube on December 30, 2013. Created by Sonia Blangiardo, it is a \"soap-within-a-soap\" which follows the backstage drama of the fictional soap opera \"Painted Dreams\".\n\n\"Tainted Dreams\" was nominated for a Daytime Emmy Award for Outstanding New Approaches Drama Series in 2014, and one for Outstanding Digital Daytime Drama Series in 2017. Kelley Menighan Hensley, Michael Lowry, Natalia Livingston, and Anthony Wilkinson were also nominated for Daytime Emmys in 2017 for their performances.\n\n\nBlangiardo created \"Tainted Dreams\" after the cancellation of the long running daytime soap opera \"One Life to Live\", where she was a producer. She said in 2013, \"I was struck by the loss of this unique art form that had been such an integral part of NYC for decades. I wanted to somehow capture my own two decades working behind the scenes of three different NYC-based soaps.\"\n\nFirst cast were Minshew, Lowry, Willey, Hensley and Schulenburg. In January 2013, Manzo of Bravo's \"The Real Housewives of New Jersey\" was cast as Alessandra DiGiacomo, a role written with her in mind. Later cast additions in 2013 included Peck, Zenk, Aleksander, Livingston, Malloy, Eakes, and DePaiva, Kristen and Walker.\n\nThe first three episodes of \"Tainted Dreams\" were released on YouTube on December 30, 2013.\n\n\"Tainted Dreams\" was licensed to Amazon.com for streaming through its Amazon Prime service starting December 26, 2016.\n\nWriting for \"Entertainment Weekly\", Alina Adams named the series one of the \"4 best soap operas on the web\" in 2015.\n\n"}
{"id": "55325741", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55325741", "title": "Tamaddon TV", "text": "Tamaddon TV\n\nTamaddon TV (Persian: تلویزیون تمدّن‎‎) is a television network channel in Kabul, Afghanistan. The channel was founded by Asif Mohseni.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17125487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17125487", "title": "Tenjō Sajiki", "text": "Tenjō Sajiki\n\n, was a Japanese independent theater troupe led by Shūji Terayama and active between 1967 and 1983 (until Terayama's death). A major phenomenon on the Japanese underground scene, the group has produced a number of stage works marked by experimentalism, folklore influences, social provocation, grotesque eroticism and the flamboyant fantasy characteristic of Terayama's oeuvre. Tenjō Sajiki benefitted greatly from collaborations with a number of prominent artists, including musicians J. A. Seazer and Kan Mikami, and graphic designers Aquirax Uno and Tadanori Yokoo.\n\nThe name is from , the Japanese title of the film \"Children of Paradise\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48645330", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48645330", "title": "The Magician (2015 film)", "text": "The Magician (2015 film)\n\nThe Magician (; lit. \"Joseon Magician\") is a 2015 South Korean period fantasy film directed by Kim Dae-seung. The film was released in December 2015.\n\nA story of the famous magician in Joseon Era who fell in love with a princess who is a fiancé of the prince of the Qing dynasty.\n\n\nThe film debuted in sixth place at the Korean box-office and grossed on its opening week.\n\n"}
{"id": "4024776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4024776", "title": "The Man from Snowy River: Arena Spectacular", "text": "The Man from Snowy River: Arena Spectacular\n\nThe Man from Snowy River: Arena Spectacular, based on Banjo Paterson's poem \"The Man from Snowy River\", was a popular musical theatre production which toured Australian capital cities twice during 2002. Kevin Jacobsen and David Atkins were the executive producers for the show. David Atkins and Ignatius Jones were co-directors and co-writers. Extra dialogue was written for the show by Jonathan Biggins and Phillip Scott.\n\nThe stage musical has no relationship to the 1982 film \"The Man from Snowy River\", or the 1988 sequel \"The Man from Snowy River II\", or the television series \"The Man from Snowy River\".\n\nAll poetry narrated in the musical was written by Banjo Paterson, including the lyrics to the songs \"Waltzing Matilda\" (with music written by M. Cowan), and \"As Long as Your Eyes Are Blue\" (the music to which was \"Clancy's Theme\", which was written by Bruce Rowland for the film \"The Man from Snowy River\").\n\n\n\n\nOn John Conroy's property, the 2-year-old colts and fillies are mustered and brought to the homestead for horse breaking. Two of the colts are of very good stock, especially the beautiful and spirited colt from the famous racehorse Regret (John Conroy says that the colt is worth a thousand pounds (£1000) and that he wants the colt to eventually be the stud horse for the property).\n\nJim Ryan arrives at John Conroy's property following the death of his father. When he and Conroy's daughter, Kate, see each other, it is love at first sight for them both.\n\nJim, however, finds resentment at his presence at the station, both from John Conroy, the owner of the property, and the station's stockmen and station hands, with Dan Mulligan (the leading hand), disdainfully commenting \"We don't want any swagmen here\". Saltbush and McGinness McGee also make remarks about Jim Ryan's horse, with Saltbush sarcastically asking Jim if he bought his horse from a Mark Foy's catalogue, and McGinness McGee commenting that it was more likely that the horse had been saved from a glue factory.\n\nJohn Conroy also comments that they have enough men working on the property already. Kate pleads with her father to give Jim a job at the property, and he finally relents, saying that Jim can help break the horses. John Conroy resents it when Jim Ryan says that he knows of a better way to break horses than the horse-breaking method being used at the property. However, John Conroy says that Jim could prove his expertise in horse-breaking by breaking the colt from Regret.\n\nDuring the night, the Brumby herd gallops close to the homestead, and the colt from Regret breaks free from his tethers and joins them. John Conroy is furious at the loss of his prized colt, and unfairly blames Jim for what has occurred. Conroy decides to get all the crack riders (expert horse riders) from the stations near and far to muster at the homestead and hunt for the Brumbies, offering a reward of £1000, and angrily orders Jim to leave the property first thing in the morning.\n\nThe crack riders gather at the homestead the following morning, including Harrison, who made his fortune when Pardon won the cup (a reference to the President's Cup, a lesser known race held in Manindie, New South Wales). Another crack rider at the homestead was Clancy of the Overflow (who was a friend of Jim). Jim shyly turns up to join in the ride to hunt for the colt and Brumbies, but finds that, apart from his friend, Clancy, he is not wanted by anyone on the ride. Clancy convinces the others that, as both Jim and his horse were mountain-reared, they would be of great help in the ride.\n\nThe Brumbies are too quick for the riders and, when it becomes too steep and dangerous with wombat holes (burrows, where a horse could break a leg), all riders stop short of the dangerous descent — apart from Jim, who continues to chase the Brumby herd - finally bringing the herd (including the colt) back to John Conroy's property.\n\nJohn Conroy is delighted to have his colt back again, and gives his approval to Jim marrying Kate. A concert and country dance, as well as a superb equestrian pageant, are then held in celebration and recognition of Jim's deed, and all ends happily.\n\nScene 1 — Prelude\n\nScene 2 — Mustering the Colts\n\nScene 3 — The Homestead\n\nScene 4 — Jim's Entrance — The Man Arrives\n\nScene 5 — Breaking the Colts\n\nScene 6 — The Horse Whisperer\n\nScene 7 — The Breakout\n\nScene 8 — The Confrontation — Jim's & Kate's First Kiss\n\nScene 9 — The Cracks Gather — Musical Ride\n\nMusical Entrácte\n\nScene 1 — Tall Stories\n\nScene 2 — The Man and Kate — A Kiss for Luck\n\nScenes 3, 4 and 5\n\nScene 6 — The Concert\n\nScene 7 — Musical Ride\n\nScene 8 — The Finale\n\nScene 9 — The Swagman Returns\n\n\nAlthough also based on The Man from Snowy River (poem), the arena spectacular has no connection whatsoever with either the films or the television series of the same name.\n\n\n\n\n\nThe , which was released by the Australian Broadcasting Corporation in 2002, won the 2002 Australian Record Industry Association (ARIA Music Award) for Best Cast/Show Album.\n\nBruce Rowland, who composed the instrumental music for both the 1982 film \"The Man from Snowy River\" film and its sequel 1988 film \"The Man from Snowy River II\" (American title: \"Return to Snowy River\"), composed special arrangements of some of his music for the musical.\n\nLee Kernaghan and Garth Porter wrote the music and lyrics for the country songs. Lee Kernaghan also sang some of the country songs (which he had already recorded on some of his albums), during the concert scene.\n\n\"The Man from Snowy River: Arena Spectacular\" was performed at the Brisbane Entertainment Centre in Boondall, Queensland, Australia, for both of its Brisbane runs (in 2002), with the musical being filmed, for DVD and videotape release, at the entertainment centre during its second run in Brisbane in October, 2002. Extra dancers and acrobats were hired for the finale of this recording. The DVD and VHS recordings of the musical were released on 26 January 2003 (Australia Day).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8251319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8251319", "title": "Theatre de l'Ange Fou", "text": "Theatre de l'Ange Fou\n\nTheatre de l'Ange Fou is a theatre company based in London, England. Its artistic directors are Steven Wasson and Corinne Soum. It was created in Paris in 1984 and relocated to London in 1995.\n\nThe Theatre de l'Ange Fou and the International School of Corporeal Mime (formerly known as the \"Ecole de Mime Corporel Dramatique\") were created in Paris in 1984 by Steven Wasson and Corinne Soum, the last assistants of Etienne Decroux, \"the father of Modern Mime\", and relocated to London in 1995. The International School of Corporeal Mime is devoted to the development of the technique, growing repertoire and dramaturgy of Corporeal Mime, and offers a full range of professional training programmes.\n\nThe company has toured throughout Europe, Russia, the United States, Canada, Brazil, Mexico and the Middle East. It has created more than 20 original plays, devised pieces as well as adaptations, ranging from duets to large ensemble works: \"The Little Dictator\" (parts I & II), \"Beyond the Garden\", \"Crusade\", \"Entangled Lives\", \"The Government Inspector\" and \"The Orpheus Complex\".\n\nUsing Corporeal Mime as the base of their creative work, the dramaturgical construction of their plays takes the form of a voyage where the characters traverse varied landscapes and lifetimes, some real, some imaginary. The world of the Theatre de l'Ange Fou, this visionary world of contrasting light and darkness, of metamorphosis, is populated by a family of invented archetypes in unknown yet familiar settings. Throughout their various productions, the company explores the infinite possibilities of the interaction between the corporeal score and the spoken text, music and film.\n\nAlongside this personal artistic development, in 1992 Wasson and Soum took up the challenge of re-introducing the repertoire of Etienne Decroux to the public with their reconstruction, and performances by the Theatre de l'Ange Fou, of most of his major pieces (including \"La Meditation\", \"Les Arbres\" and \"L'Usine\") in \"The Man Who Preferred to Stand\", and more recently, \"Passage of Man on Earth\" and \"Resonance\". This was the beginning of the transmission process that is today the basis of the teaching in the International School of Corporeal Mime.\n\n"}
{"id": "563616", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=563616", "title": "Ubisoft", "text": "Ubisoft\n\nUbisoft Entertainment SA (; ; formerly Ubi Soft Entertainment SA) is a French video game company headquartered in Montreuil, France, with several development studios across the world. It is known for publishing games for several acclaimed video game franchises including \"Assassin's Creed\", \"Far Cry\", \"Just Dance\", \"Prince of Persia\", \"Rayman\", \"Raving Rabbids\", and \"Tom Clancy's\".\n\nAs of March 2018, it is the fourth largest publicly-traded game company in the Americas and Europe after Activision Blizzard, Electronic Arts, and Take-Two Interactive in terms of revenue and market capitalisation.\n\nThe Guillemot family had established themselves as a farming support business for farmers in the Brittany province in northwest France and nearby regions, including into the United Kingdom. The five sons of the family – Christian, Claude, Gérard, Michel and Yves – helped with the sales, distribution, accounting and management of the company with their parents prior to university. All five gained experience in entrepreneurial while at university, which they brought back to the family business to help improve it, at a time where farming businesses were starting to wane. The brothers came up with the idea of diversification to sell other products of use to farmers; Claude began with selling CD audio media, and later the brothers expanded to computers and additional software which included video games.\n\nIn the early 1980s, they saw that the costs of buying computers and software from a French supplier was more expensive than buying the same materials in the United Kingdom and shipping to France, and came upon the idea of a mail-order business around computers and software. Their mother said they could start their own business this way as long as they managed it themselves and equally split its shares between the five of them. Their first business was Guillemot Informatique, founded in 1984. They originally only sold through mail order, but soon were getting orders from French retailers, since they were able to undercut other suppliers by up to 50% of the cost of new titles. By 1986, this company was earning about 40 million French francs. In 1985, the brothers established Guillemot Corporation for similar distribution of computer hardware. As demand continued, the brothers recognized that video game software was becoming a lucrative property, and decided that they needed to get into the development side of the industry, already having insight on the publication and distribution side. On 12 March 1986, the brothers founded Ubi Soft (formally, Ubi Soft Entertainment S.A.) in Carentoir, a village located in the Morbihan department in Brittany. The name \"Ubi Soft\" was selected to represent \"ubiquitous\" software.\n\nWhile they established operating offices in Paris, the brothers used the chateau in Carentoir as the primary space for development, hoping the setting would lure developers, as well as to have a better way to manage expectations of their developers. However, after about two years, the costs of maintaining the chateau were too expensive, and the developers, about a half-dozen at the time, were given the option to relocate to Paris. One of Ubi Soft's first hires was Michel Ancel who was only a teenager at the time, but had been noticed by the brothers for his animation skills, and he and his family relocated to Carentoir. However, with the chateau's closure, Ancel's family could not afford the cost of living in Paris, and returned to Montpellier in southern France, while the Guillemot brothers told Ancel to keep them abreast of anything he might come up with there. Ancel came back later with Frédéric Houde with a prototype of a game with highly-animated features which caught the brothers' interest. Michel Guillemot decided to make the project a key one for the company, establishing a studio in Montreuil to house over 100 developers in 1994, and targeting the new line of fifth generation consoles like the Atari Jaguar and PlayStation. Their game, \"Rayman\", was released in 1995 to critical success, and is considered the game that put Ubi Soft in the worldwide spotlight. Alongside this, Yves managed Guillemot Informatique, making deals with Electronic Arts, Sierra On-Line and MicroProse to distribute their games in France. By the end of the decade, Guillemot Informatique began expanding to other markets, including the United States, the United Kingdom and Germany. They entered the video game distribution and wholesale markets, and by 1993 they had become the largest distributor of video games in France.\n\nIn 1996, Ubi Soft listed its initial public offering and raised over in funds to help them to expand the company. Within two years, the company established worldwide studios in Annecy (1996), Shanghai (1996), Montreal (1997), and Milan (1998).\n\nOne difficulty that the brothers found was the lack of an intellectual property that would have a foothold in the United States market; games like \"Rayman\" did well in Europe but not overseas. When widespread growth of the Internet arrived around 1999, the brothers decided to take advantage of this by founding game studios aimed at online free-to-play titles, including GameLoft; this allowed them to license the rights to Ubi Soft properties to these companies, increasing the share value of Ubi Soft five-fold. With the extra infusion of , they were able to then purchase Red Storm Entertainment in 2000, giving them access to the \"Tom Clancy's\" series of stealth and spy games, highly popular in the United States. Ubi Soft helped with Red Storm to continue to expand the series, bringing titles like \"Tom Clancy's Ghost Recon\" and \"Tom Clancy's Rainbow Six\" series. The company got a strong foothold in the United States when it worked with Microsoft to develop \"Tom Clancy's Splinter Cell\", an Xbox-exclusive title released in 2002 to challenge the PlayStation-exclusive \"Metal Gear Solid\" series, by combining elements of \"Tom Clancy's\" series with elements of an in-house developed game called \"The Drift\". \"Splinter Cell\" helped not only to sell the Xbox 360 console, but established both Ubi Soft and its Montreal studio as important players in the video game market.\n\nIn March 2001, Gores Technology Group sold The Learning Company's entertainment division (which includes games originally published by Brøderbund, Mattel Interactive, Mindscape and Strategic Simulations) to them. The sale included the rights to intellectual properties such as the \"Myst\" and \"Prince of Persia\" series. Ubisoft Montreal developed the \"Prince of Persia\" title into \"\", released in 2003, another critically successful title. At the same time, Ubi Soft also released \"Beyond Good & Evil\", Ancel's project after \"Rayman\"; it was one of Ubi Soft's first commercial \"flop\", as while it has gained an appreciation over time, it was met with lukewarm reception at its release alongside a competitive 2003 release market.\n\nOn 9 September 2003, Ubi Soft announced that they would change their name to simply Ubisoft, and introduced a new logo known as \"the swirl\". In December 2004, rival gaming corporation Electronic Arts purchased a 19.9% stake in the firm. Ubisoft referred to the purchase as \"hostile\" on EA's part. Ubisoft's brothers recognized they had not considered themselves within a competitive market, and employees had feared that an EA takeover would drastically alter the environment within Ubisoft. EA's CEO at the time, John Riccitiello, assured Ubisoft the purchase was not meant as a hostile maneuver, and EA ended up selling the shares in 2010.\n\nUbisoft established another new IP, \"Assassin's Creed\", first launched in 2007; \"Assassin's Creed\" was originally developed by Ubisoft Montreal as a sequel to \"Prince of Persia: The Sands of Time\" but instead transitioned to a story about Assassins and the Templar Knights. In July 2006, Ubisoft bought the \"Driver\" franchise from Atari for a sum of €19 million in cash for the franchise, technology rights, and most assets. In July 2008, Ubisoft made the acquisition of Hybride Technologies, a Piedmont-based studio renowned for its expertise in the creation of visual effects for cinema, television and advertising. In November 2008, Ubisoft acquired Massive Entertainment from Activision. In January 2013, Ubisoft acquired \"\" from THQ for $3.265 million.\n\nUbisoft announced plans in 2013 to invest $373 million into its Quebec operations over seven years, a move that is expected to generate 500 additional jobs in the province. The publisher is investing in the expansion of its motion capture technologies, and consolidating its online games operations and infrastructure in Montreal. By 2020, the company will employ more than 3,500 staff at its studios in Montreal and Quebec City.\n\nIn March 2015, the company set up a Consumer Relationship Centre in Newcastle-upon-Tyne. The centre is intended to integrate consumer support teams and community managers. Consumer Support and Community Management teams at the CRC are operational seven days a week.\n\nSince around 2015, the French mass media company Vivendi has been seeking to expand its media properties through acquisitions and other business deals. In addition to advertising firm Havas, Ubisoft was one of the first target properties identified by Vivendi, which as of September 2017 has an estimated valuation of $6.4 billion. Vivendi, in two separate actions during October 2015, bought shares in Ubisoft stock, giving them a 10.4% stake in Ubisoft, an action that Yves Guillemot considered \"unwelcome\" and feared a hostile takeover. In a presentation during the Electronic Entertainment Expo 2016, Yves Guillemot stressed the importance that Ubisoft remain an independent company to maintain its creative freedom. Vice-President of Live Operations, Anne Blondel-Jouin, expressed similar sentiment in an interview with \"PCGamesN\", stating that Ubisoft's success was (partly) due to \"...being super independent, being very autonomous.\"\n\nVivendi also acquired stake in mobile game publisher Gameloft, also owned by the Guillemots, at the same time it started acquiring Ubisoft shares. In the following February, Vivendi acquired €500 million worth of shares in Gameloft, gaining more than 30% of the shares and requiring the company under French law to make a public tender offer; this action enabled Vivendi to complete the hostile takeover of Gameloft by June 2016. Following Vivendi's actions with Gameloft in February 2016, the Guillemots asked for more Canadian investors in the following February to fend off a similar Vivendi takeover; by this point, Vivendi had increased their share in Ubisoft to 15%, exceeding the estimated 9% that the Guillemots owned. By mid-June 2016, Vivendi had increased its shares to 20.1%, but denied it was in the process of a takeover.\n\nBy the time of Ubisoft's annual board meeting in September 2016, Vivendi has gained 23% of the shares, while Guillemots were able to increase their voting share to 20%. A request was made at the board meeting to place Vivendi representatives on Ubisoft's board, given the size of their share holdings. The Guillemots argued strongly against this, reiterating that Vivendi should be seen as a competitor, and succeeded in swaying other voting members to deny any board seats to Vivendi.\n\nVivendi continued to buy shares in Ubisoft, approaching the 30% mark that could trigger a hostile takeover; as of December 2016, Vivendi held a 27.15% stake in Ubisoft. \"Reuters\" reported in April 2017 that Vivendi's takeover of Ubisoft would likely happen that year, and \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" observed that some of Vivendi's shares would reach the two-year holding mark, which would grant them double voting power, and would likely meet or exceed the 30% threshold. The Guillemot family has since raised their stake in Ubisoft; as of June 2017, the family now held 13.6 percent of Ubisoft's share capital, and 20.02 percent of the company's voting rights. In October 2017, Ubisoft announced it reached a deal with an \"investment services provider\" to help them purchase back 4 million shares by the end of the year, preventing others, specifically Vivendi, from buying these.\n\nIn the week just before Vivendi would gain double-voting rights for previously purchased shares, which would have likely pushed their ownership over 30%, the company, in quarterly results published in November 2017, that it has no plans to acquire Ubisoft for the next six months, nor will seek board positions due to the shares they hold during that time, and that it \"will ensure that its interest in Ubisoft will not exceed the threshold of 30% through the doubling of its voting rights.\" Vivendi remained committed to expanding in the video game sector, identifying that their investment in Ubisoft could represent a capital gain of over 1 billion euros.\n\nOn 20 March 2018, Ubisoft and Vivendi struck a deal ending any potential takeover, with Vivendi agreeing to sell all of its shares, over 30 million, to other parties and agreeing to not buy any Ubisoft shares for five years. Some of those shares were sold to Tencent, which after the transaction held about 5.6 million shares of Ubisoft; the same day, Ubisoft announced a partnership with Tencent to help bring their games into the Chinese market. Vivendi affirmed it would completely divest its shares in Ubisoft by March 2019.\n\nUbisoft noticed that connected sandbox experiences, with seamless switches between single and multiplayer modes provided the players with more fun, leading the company to switch from pursuing single-player only games to internet connected online experiences. According to Guillemot, Ubisoft internally refers to its reimagined self as 'before \"The Division\" and an 'after \"The Division\".\n\nIn an interview with \"The Verge\", Anne Blondel-Jouin, executive producer of \"The Crew\" turned vice-president of live operations, noted that \"The Crew\" was an early game of Ubisoft's to require a persistent internet connection in order to play. This raised initial concerns for gamers, hampering the game's initial success and sparked concerns internally at the company.\n\nUplay is a digital distribution, digital rights management, multiplayer and communications service for PC created by Ubisoft. Ubisoft Club is a reward program connected ot Uplay Members earn rewards by completing certain actions while playing games published by Ubisoft. Completing an action gives you a certain number of Units, which members can use to unlock those rewards or to get a discount on games from the Uplay Store.\n\nAnvilNext, formerly named Scimitar, is a proprietary game engine developed wholly within Ubisoft Montreal in 2007 for the development of the first \"Assassin's Creed\" game, and since expanded and used for nearly all other \"Assassin's Creed\" titles and other Ubisoft games.\n\nThe Dunia engine is a software fork of the CryEngine that was originally developed by Crytek, with modifications made by Ubisoft Montreal. The CryEngine was unique at the time as it could render large outdoor environmental spaces. Crytek had created a demo of their engine called \"X-Isle: Dinosaur Island\" which they had demonstrated at the Electronic Entertainment Expo 1999. Ubisoft saw the demo, and had Crytek build out the demo into a full title, becoming the first \"Far Cry\", released in 2004. That same year, Electronic Arts established a deal with Crytek to build a wholly different title with an improved version of the CryEngine, leaving them unable to continue work on \"Far Cry\". Ubisoft assigned Ubisoft Montreal to develop console versions of \"Far Cry\", and arranging with Crytek to have all rights to the \"Far Cry\" series as well as a perpetual license on the CryEngine.\n\nIn developing \"Far Cry 2\", Ubisoft Montreal modified the CryEngine to include destructable environments and a more realistic physics engine. This modified version became the Dunia Engine, which premiered with \"Far Cry 2\" in 2008. The Dunia engine continued to be improved, such as adding weather systems, and used of the basis of all future \"Far Cry\" games, as well as \"\", also developed by Ubisoft Montreal. According to Remi Quenin, one of the engine's architect at Ubisoft Montreal, the state of the Dunia Engine as of 2017 includes \"vegetation, fire simulation, destruction, vehicles, systemic AI, wildlife, weather, day/night cycles, [and] non linear storytelling\" which are all fundamental elements of the \"Far Cry\" games, and little of the original CryEngine code remained in the current version.\n\nUbisoft used the controversial \"StarForce\" copy protection technology which is able to install drivers on a system and is known to cause hardware and compatibility issues with certain operating systems. In April 2006, Ubisoft confirmed that they would stop using StarForce on their games, citing complaints from customers.\n\nIn the February 2008 issue of \"Electronic Gaming Monthly\", editor-in-chief Dan \"EGMShoe\" Hsu asserted that Ubisoft had ceased to provide Ubisoft titles to \"EGM\" for coverage purposes as a result of prior critical previews and negative reviews. Yves Guillemot, the CEO of Ubisoft, was quoted in the company's third-quarter 2008–09 sales report as saying \"\"as some of our games did not meet the required quality levels to achieve their full potential, they need more sales promotions than anticipated\".\"\n\nIn August 2008, Ubisoft was criticised by the antiwar group Direct Action to Stop the War (DASW) for its role as a developer of propaganda and recruitment tools for the United States Department of Defense.\n\nIn January 2010, Ubisoft announced the online services platform Uplay, which requires customers to authenticate on the first game launch and to remain online continually while playing, with the game pausing if network connection is lost. This system prevent to play games offline, to resell them and in the case should Ubisoft's servers go down, games would be unplayable. In 2010, review versions of \"Assassin's Creed II\" and \"Settlers 7\" for the PC contained this new DRM scheme and instead of pausing the game, it would discard all progress since the last checkpoint or save game. However, subsequent patches for \"Assassin's Creed II\" allowed players to continue playing once their connection has been restored without loss of progress.\n\nIn March 2010, outages to the Ubisoft DRM servers were reported, causing about 5% of legitimate buyers to be unable to play \"Assassin's Creed II\" and \"Silent Hunter 5\". Ubisoft initially announced this was the result of the number of users attempting to access their servers to play, but later claimed that the real cause of the outages were denial-of-service attacks. In August 2011, Ubisoft released \"From Dust\" with DRM protection, contrary to previous statements that the game would not have any DRM related restrictions. After several months, the DRM had still not been removed from copies of the game.\n\nThe company's use of Aaron Priceman, also known as \"Mr. Caffeine\" by the internet, as a spokesman at Electronic Entertainment Expo 2011 was criticised for his reliance on popular internet references, inability to pronounce Tom Clancy (pronounced by Priceman as \"Tom Culancy\"), sexual innuendos and imitations of video game sound effects with little to no response from the audience.\n\nIn July 2013, Ubisoft announced a major breach in its network resulting in the potential exposure of up to 58 million accounts including usernames, email address and encrypted passwords. Although the firm denied any credit/debit card information could have been compromised, it issued directives to all registered users to change their account passwords and also recommended updating passwords on any other website or service where a same or similar password had been used. All the users who registered were emailed by the Ubisoft company about the breach and a password change request. Ubisoft promised to keep the information safe.\n\nAfter revealing \"Assassin's Creed Unity\" at Electronic Entertainment Expo 2014, Ubisoft came in for criticism from the gaming community shortly after revealing that the game would not support female characters in co-op gameplay. The criticism was inflamed after they explained the absence of a female co-op or playable character in \"Far Cry 4\": according to Ubisoft Montreal, they were close to making it possible when the decision was taken that they didn't have the right animations for a female character. Among the responses were comments from developers that the explanations given were not valid. Among them were the fact that the protagonists of \"Assassin's Creed III\" and its spin-off game \"\" shared a large number of movement animations. There were also statements that characters in video games tended to move in a similar fashion regardless of gender. An animation director for \"Assassin's Creed III\" also said that the stated reasons of workload and animation replacement didn't hold up, saying that it would be \"a day or two's work\" to create a female character model.\n\n"}
{"id": "9560369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9560369", "title": "Ubisoft Montpellier", "text": "Ubisoft Montpellier\n\nUbisoft Montpellier is a French video game developer and a subsidiary of Ubisoft based in Castelnau-le-Lez. The company was founded in 1994, originally as a graphics studio, and was known as Ubi Pictures, and later as Ubisoft Pictures. In December 2000, the studio had 25 employees working from an old farm located near the Opéra national de Montpellier. On March 14, 2011, Ubisoft Pictures was merged with several other Ubisoft-owned properties in the Montpellier area, including Tiwak, and was renamed Ubisoft Montpellier. The studio is best known for developing the \"Beyond Good & Evil\" and \"Rayman\" series, as well as creating the UbiArt Framework game engine.\n"}
{"id": "982243", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=982243", "title": "Watership Down (film)", "text": "Watership Down (film)\n\nWatership Down is a 1978 British animated adventure-drama film written, produced and directed by Martin Rosen and based on the novel of the same name by Richard Adams. It was financed by a consortium of British financial institutions. The film was distributed by Cinema International Corporation in the United Kingdom, while the film was distributed by AVCO Embassy Pictures theatrically in the US and on home video by Warner Bros. Pictures via Warner Bros. Animation in the United States and internationally. Originally released on 19 October 1978, the film was an immediate success and it became the sixth most popular film of 1979 at the British box office. It was the first animated feature film to be presented in Dolby surround sound.\n\nIt features the voices of John Hurt, Richard Briers, Harry Andrews, Simon Cadell, Nigel Hawthorne and Roy Kinnear, among others, and was the last film work of Zero Mostel, as the voice of Kehaar the gull. The musical score was by Angela Morley and Malcolm Williamson. Art Garfunkel's hit song \"Bright Eyes\", which was written by songwriter Mike Batt, briefly features.\n\nAccording to Adams' Lapine language, culture and mythology, the world was created by the god Frith, who represents the Sun. All animals lived harmoniously, but the rabbits eventually multiplied, and their appetite led to a food shortage. At the prayers of the desperate animals, Frith ordered the prince rabbit, El-ahrairah, to control his people, but was scoffed at. In retaliation, Frith gave special gifts to every animal, but some animals he made predators to prey upon the rabbits. Satisfied that El-ahrairah (now also known as \"Prince with a Thousand Enemies\") had learned his lesson, Frith also gave the rabbits speed and cunning; while many would seek to kill them, the rabbits could survive by their wits and quickness.\n\nIn the present, in the English countryside of Sandleford, Fiver, a rabbit seer has an apocalyptic vision and goes with his older brother Hazel to beg the chief to have the warren evacuated, but they are dismissed and attempt to make an exodus themselves. The group meets resistance from the warren's police force called the Owsla, but eight manage to fight and escape: Fiver, Hazel, Bigwig, Blackberry, Pipkin, Dandelion, Silver, and Violet. They travel through the dangerous woods and make it to a bean field to rest. In the morning, Violet is killed by a hawk, leaving the group without a female.\n\nAfter several dangerous situations, they meet the enigmatic rabbit Cowslip, who invites them to his warren. They are grateful, but Fiver senses something unsettling in the atmosphere, as well as the resident rabbits' overly resigned attitudes, and leaves. An irked Bigwig follows, and chastises Fiver for supposedly causing senseless tension with his instincts. Moments later, however, he is caught in a snare trap. Fiver attempts to get help from their hosts, but is ignored. Bigwig is freed after nearly dying. As Fiver reveals, the warren is fed by a farmer who snares rabbits in return for his food and protection from predators. After Bigwig's narrow escape, the other rabbits willingly follow Fiver's and Hazel's advice and set out once more.\n\nThe rabbits discover Nuthanger farm, which contains a hutch of female rabbits, necessary for a new warren. However, they do not manage to free them, on account of the territorial farm cat and dog. Later, they are found by the maimed Owsla Captain Holly, who recounts the destruction of Sandleford by humans, and a mysterious group called the \"Efrafrans\" before falling unconscious. After he recovers, Fiver finally leads the group to the hill he envisioned, Watership Down, where the rabbits settle in with Hazel as their chief.\n\nThey befriend an injured black-headed gull, Kehaar, who offers to survey the local area for does. The rabbits return to Nuthanger Farm to free the does; Hazel is shot by a farmer and presumed dead, but Fiver has a vision and follows the apparition of the Black Rabbit of Inlé (the rabbit equivalent of the Grim Reaper) to his injured brother. Kehaar returns and while removing buckshot pellets from Hazel's leg, reports of Efrafa, a large warren with many females. Holly, who encountered Efrafa, begs them not to go there, describing it as a totalitarian state, run by vicious and heavily territorial rabbits. Hazel feels they have no choice but to go there. Bigwig infiltrates the enemy warren and is made an Owsla officer by the cruel chief, General Woundwort. Bigwig recruits several potential escapees to his cause, including Hyzenthlay, an idealistic doe and Blackavar, a scarred attempted escapee. They flee, and using a boat to float down the river, they evade capture, helped by Kehaar. That night, Kehaar leaves for his homeland with the gratitude of the warren.\n\nSeveral days later, Efrafan trackers discover their trail and follow them to Watership Down. Hazel offers a treaty with Woundwort, who dismisses Hazel, telling him to turn over Bigwig and all the deserters or he will kill the entire warren. The Watership rabbits barricade their warren and are besieged by the Efrafans. Fiver slips into a trance, in which he envisions a dog loose in the woods. His moans inspire Hazel to free the dog from Nuthanger Farm and lead him to the Efrafans. He escapes with Blackberry, Dandelion and Hyzenthlay.\n\nHazel prays to Frith, offering his life for the warren; a bargain Frith acknowledges, but does not accept. Hazel releases the dog while his companions bait it into following them to Watership Down; Hazel is attacked by the cat, but saved by Lucy (the owner of the hutch rabbits). When the Efrafans break through the warren's defences, Woundwort goes in alone; Blackavar attacks him, but Woundwort slays him easily. Bigwig ambushes Woundwort and they fight to exhaustion. The dog arrives and attacks the Efrafan soldiers. Hearing the commotion, Woundwort abandons Bigwig and fearlessly confronts the dog. No trace of Woundwort is found, leaving his fate ambiguous.\n\nSeveral years later, the warren is thriving. An elderly Hazel is visited by El-ahrairah, who invites him to join his own Owsla, assuring him of Watership Down's perpetual safety and its future. Reassured, Hazel accepts and dies peacefully. His spirit then follows El-ahrairah through the woodland and trees towards the Sun, which metamorphoses into Frith, and the afterlife.\n\n\nProduction of the film began in 1975 and was originally to be directed by John Hubley, who died in 1977. His work can still be found in the film, most notably in the \"fable\" scene. He was replaced by the film's producer Martin Rosen, his directorial debut.\n\nAfter the genesis story, which was rendered in a narrated simple cartoon fashion, the animation style changes to a detailed, naturalistic one. There are concessions to render the animals anthropomorphic only to suggest that they have human voices and minds, some facial expressions for emotion, and paw gestures. The animation backgrounds are watercolors. Only one of the predators, the farm cat Tab, is given a few lines, the rest remaining mute.\n\nThe backgrounds and locations, especially Efrafa and the nearby railway, are based on the diagrams and maps in Richard Adams's original novel. Most of the locations in the movie either exist or were based on real spots in Hampshire and surrounding areas.\n\nAlthough the film is fairly faithful to the novel, several changes were made to the storyline, mainly to decrease overly detailed complexity and improve the pace and flow of the plot. In addition, the order in which some events occur is re-arranged. Unlike many animated features, the film faithfully emulated the dark and violent sophistication of the book. As a result, many reviewers took to warning parents that children might find the content disturbing. When the film was first submitted to the British Board of Film Classification, the BBFC passed the film with a 'U' certificate (suitable for all ages, similar to the MPAA's \"G\" rating), deciding that \"whilst the film may move children emotionally during the film's duration, it could not seriously trouble them once the spell of the story is broken and a 'U' certificate was therefore quite appropriate\". In 2012, the BBFC admitted that it had \"received complaints about the suitability of Watership Down at U almost every year since its classification\". In the U.S. the film was rated PG due to the violent scenes.\n\nThis attitude was extended when the animated \"Watership Down\" TV series was marketed with the producers making an effort to reassure parents that the violence had been softened and that the main characters would not be permanently harmed in their adventures. Although the third season took a slightly darker tone to try and attract more of an audience, the season only aired in North America, Germany, and Greece.\n\nSome marketers in the U.S. also worried that the main promotional poster appeared too dark and might scare some children. The poster is actually showing Bigwig in a snare (his distinctive fur is clearly visible), yet the image on the poster does not appear in the film, which contains a far bloodier depiction of the scene.\n\nThe musical score was by Angela Morley and Malcolm Williamson, Morley replacing Williamson after the composer had fallen behind and only composed the prelude and main title theme in sketch form. A list of the musical cues for the film can be found on the composer's website, which also gives information about the different composers working on the project.\n\nThe soundtrack includes Art Garfunkel's British No. 1 hit, \"Bright Eyes\", which was written by the British singer and songwriter Mike Batt. He also wrote other songs for the film which were not used. The composer recorded three songs with vocals by Garfunkel, but only \"Bright Eyes\" made it to the film. The song \"When You're Losing Your Way in the Rain\" has a very similar feeling and arrangement, and was recorded by the former Zombies vocalist Colin Blunstone in 1979. Garfunkel's version was heard years later, on the TV series soundtrack released in 2000. The song, like many others which appeared on the TV soundtrack, was never used in the show.\n\nThe film was an immediate success at the UK box office and has received a mostly positive critical reception, with an 82% 'Fresh' rating on Rotten Tomatoes based on 33 reviews. The critical consensus reads: \"Aimed at adults perhaps more than children, this is a respectful, beautifully animated adaptation of Richard Adams' beloved book.\" \n\nThe film was nominated for Hugo Award for Best Dramatic Presentation in 1979. In 2004, the magazine \"Total Film\" named \"Watership Down\" the 47th greatest British film of all time and it was also ranked 15th in the \"100 Greatest Tearjerkers\".\n\nInvestors in the film reportedly received a return of 5,000% on their investment.\n\nDespite its success at the UK box office, the film underperformed at the US box office, earning only US$3 million against a budget of $4 million.\n\nThe British Board of Film Classification have been criticized for declaring Watership Down as a U rating, which is intended for anyone at least 4 years of age. The film was released to theatres in the UK before the PG rating was created in the UK, but had never been rerated after the PG rating came. The fact that the film is an animation about rabbits makes many unaware parents mistake the film for being a typical child-friendly film, arguing that the frequency of gore, death, and disturbing imagery should have resulted in at least a 'parental guidance' rating. Some places like Quebec have given the film a G rating as well; however, in places like the United States, Australia, and Ireland, the film was rated PG due to the film's violence and disturbing imagery.\n\nA picture book of the animated film was also produced, titled \"The Watership Down Film Picture Book\". Two editions of the book were published, one a hard-cover, the other a reinforced cloth-bound edition. The contents include stills from the film linked with a combination of narration and extracts from the script, as well as a preface written by Richard Adams and a foreword written by Martin Rosen.\n\nDVD/Blu-ray\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5172258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5172258", "title": "Wetpaint", "text": "Wetpaint\n\nWetpaint is an internet company and a wholly owned subsidiary of Function(X). Founded in 2005, Wetpaint both publishes the website Wetpaint Entertainment, focused on entertainment news, and develops a proprietary technology platform, the Social Distribution System, that is used to provide analytics for its own website as well as other online publishers'. Wetpaint began as a wiki farm, hosting wikis using its own proprietary software, before moving into hosting of professional content in 2010. Wetpaint's wiki-hosting component was spun off completely in 2013 after being purchased by Wikifoundry.\n\nWetpaint was originally called Wikisphere, and begun as a wiki farm, hosting wikis using proprietary software. It was co-founded in October 2005 by Ben Elowitz, who had previously co-founded the online jewelry retailer Blue Nile Inc. In December 2005, the company and site were renamed to Wetpaint. In October 2005, the company received its initial A round of venture capital funding of USD5.25 million from Trinity Ventures and Frazier Technology Ventures. Wetpaint closed a USD9.5 million 'B' round of funding in January 2007, adding Accel Partners to the list of investors. Wetpaint closed a Series C round of venture capital funding of USD25 million in May 2008. Investors included Accel Partners, Trinity Ventures, and Frazier Technology Ventures.\n\nWetpaint was named by \"Time Magazine\" as one of the 50 Best Websites of 2007.\n\nIn March 2008, Wetpaint added social networking features.\n\nIn July 2009, Wetpaint laid off 15 of their 56 employees. An additional 9 employees, including co-founders Kevin Flaherty and Alex Berg, were laid off in December. The company also decided to refocus the website on professionally created content. Both steps were taken as a result of declining online ad revenue.\n\nDuring late 2009, Wetpaint re-launched its main homepage, at wetpaint.com, as the Wetpaint Entertainment platform, a set of new online TV fan destination sites, geared toward the female 18-34 demographic. The wiki farm was renamed \"Wikis by Wetpaint\", and was moved to the domain wetpaintcentral.com.\n\nIn December 2010, the company announced the Wetpaint Social Distribution System.\n\nIn December 2012, Wetpaint was acquired by Viggle, an entertainment rewards platform, which was shortly renamed to its former name, Function(X).\n"}
{"id": "27903559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27903559", "title": "You Me Bum Bum Train", "text": "You Me Bum Bum Train\n\nYou Me Bum Bum Train is an Interactive theatre performance devised by Kate Bond and Morgan Lloyd in 2004. The pair met as art students in Brighton, where they were studying illustration and film.\n\n\"You Me Bum Bum Train\" gained critical acclaim in the United Kingdom when it was awarded the Oxford Samuel Beckett Theatre Trust prize while showing in a disused office in London. In 2010 it won the Evening Standard Theatre Award for outstanding newcomer. \n\nIt returned in 2012 in a former postal depot in Holborn, and a new version of the show – at Empire House in Stratford, east London in 2012 – was nominated for an Olivier Award for Outstanding Achievement in an Affiliate Theatre.\n\nIn 2015 the show was mounted again, this time in at what had been Foyles bookshop on London's Charing Cross Road where their last show, started on 25 February 2016, finished on 29 April.\n\nVisitors to the performance pass through a series of scenes of which they have no foreknowledge, in which they are either passive or where they must improvise a part without any preparation. Hanna Hanra, writing for \"Vice\", described it as a series of \"highly detailed, absurd real life scenarios following one another on a nonsense high-paced narrative\".\n\nThe entertainment magazine \"Dazed & Confused\" reported; \"What was one of London's more obtuse treasures is set to become one of Great Britain's proudest moments.\" \"The Times\" said; \"It leaves you questioning everything, and it's lots of fun.\" Time Out magazine wrote; \"My highlight of 2008 was You Me Bum Bum Train, if only real life were that interesting.\"\n\n\"You Me Bum Bum Train\" has provoked controversy due to the fact that none of the performers gets paid, though the directors stress that performers and crew are involved on a voluntary basis, that many are not trained professionals and that they are under no obligation to stay during performances.\n\nThe company was criticized for its ticketing system which caused problems for ticket buyers in June 2015.\n\nIn November 2015 the trade union Equity criticised their £150,000 Arts Council England funding as YMBBT were advertising for professional dancers but were not paying them, despite selling tickets \"at rates typical of a West End show.\" \n\nIn June 2016 the trade union BECTU criticised YMBBT for \"exploiting workers after advertising for unpaid production interns.\" BECTU launched an investigation concerning \"the legality of the “outrageous” internships, which would see successful applicants work at least two days each week for a minimum four hours each day.\" \n"}
