{"id": "15598695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15598695", "title": "2008 submarine cable disruption", "text": "2008 submarine cable disruption\n\nThe 2008 submarine cable disruptions were three separate incidents of major damage to submarine optical communication cables around the world. The first incident caused damage involving up to five high-speed Internet submarine communications cables in the Mediterranean Sea and Middle East from 23 January to 4 February 2008, causing internet disruptions and slowdowns for users in the Middle East and India. The incident called into doubt the safety of the undersea portion of the Internet cable system.\n\nIn late February there was another outage, this time affecting a fiber optic connection between Singapore and Jakarta.\n\nOn 19 December, FLAG FEA, GO-1, SEA-ME-WE 3, and SEA-ME-WE 4 were all cut.\n\nAlthough it was not reported at the time, there was a cut off of FALCON on 23 January. The FALCON cable system connects several countries in the Persian Gulf and India.\n\nOn 30 January 2008, news agencies reported Internet services were widely disrupted in the Middle East and in the Indian subcontinent following damage to the SEA-ME-WE 4 and FLAG Telecom cables in the Mediterranean Sea. The damage to the two systems occurred separately several kilometers apart near Alexandria.\n\nWhile the respective contributions of the two cable systems to this blackout is unclear, network outage graphs show anomalies at 0430 UTC and again at 0800 UTC. The cause of the damage to SEA-ME-WE 4 or FLAG has not been declared by either cable operator. A number of sources speculated these were caused by a dragging ship anchor near Alexandria. The Egyptian Maritime Transport Ministry reviewed one day of complete video footage beginning 12 hours before and through 12 hours after the service disruption, concluding the cause of damage was not surface craft as no ships were traced sailing through the area of the alleged wire damage. The Kuwaitis also do not directly charge seafaring vessels, instead referring to \"weather conditions and maritime traffic.\"\nThe Economist reported that an earthquake may have caused the cable to fault.\n\nDisruptions of 70 percent in Egypt and 60 percent in India were reported, along with problems in Afghanistan-AWCC, Bahrain, Bangladesh, Kuwait, Maldives, Pakistan, Qatar, Saudi Arabia and United Arab Emirates.\n\n1.7 million Internet users in the UAE were affected by the Internet disruption. Mahesh Jaishanker, an executive director for Du, said, “The submarine cable cuts in FLAG Europe-Asia cable 8.3 km away from Alexandria, Egypt and SEA-ME-WE 4 affected at least 60 million users in India, 12 million in Pakistan, six million in Egypt and 4.7 million in Saudi Arabia.” A router for a university in Tehran was not responding, causing some reports of a total loss of connectivity for Iran. However, the Iranian embassy in Abu Dhabi reported that \"everything was fine.\" Additional reports and analysis showed that while Iran was affected, it \"fared much better\" than many other countries in the same geographic area.\n\nOn 1 February 2008, VSNL, a leading communications solutions provider in India, confirmed that the company restored a majority of its IP connectivity into the MENA region within 24 hours of the Egypt cable breakdown. Services were largely restored within 24 hours of the cable cut by diverting traffic through the TIC and SEA-ME-WE 3 cables.\n\nTwo days after the initial break, it was reported that the FALCON cable was cut between Muscat, Oman and Dubai, UAE. This cut was between different landing points than the 23 January cut, FLAG Telecom issued a press release later, stating the \"FALCON cable is reported cut at 0559 hrs GMT on 1 February 2008. Location of cut is at 56 km from Dubai, UAE on segment between UAE and Oman\". This cut was caused by an abandoned anchor weighing 5-6 tonnes.\n\nOn 3 February 2008, Qtel reported that a cable called DOHA-HALOUL connecting Qatar to the United Arab Emirates had been damaged, causing disruptions in already damaged Middle Eastern communication networks. It became the fourth cable to be damaged in 5 days. The location of the break was between the Qatari island of Haloul and the UAE island of Das. The problem was said to be related to the power system.\n\nOn 4 February 2008 the \"Khaleej Times\" reported that SEA-ME-WE 4 had also been damaged at another location, near Penang, Malaysia. The date of this damage was not given.\n\nOn 19 December 2008 France Telecom issued a press release stating that the FLAG Telecom, SEA-ME-WE 4, and SEA-ME-WE 3 cables, linking Alexandria, Egypt, Sicily, and Malta, had been cut by either bad weather conditions or a ship's anchor, resulting in substantial slowdowns in communication traffic, with Egypt experiencing an overall 80% reduction in Internet capacity. France Telecom expects SEA-ME-WE 4 will be repaired first, then SEA-ME-WE 3, then FLAG, and that repairs should be concluded by 31 December. The break disrupted 75% of communication between the Middle East and Asia and the rest of the world. The breaks caused companies including Vodafone, Verizon Communications, Portugal Telecom, GO and France Telecom to experience disruption in their systems and forced them to reroute communications through different means. Others, such as AT&T, also received reports of service disruption. The rerouting of these communications caused large slowdowns in some areas. Interoute director Jonathan Wright stated that \"You can reroute the data through other cables, but that increases traffic and can potentially create bottlenecks, so Internet connections may slow down and some phone calls could get disrupted.\" The GO-1 cable connecting Malta and Sicily was also cut.\n\nThese disruptions are attributed by some officials to accidents involving ships' anchors, but reviews of surveillance footage of the area by Egyptian authorities revealed no ships in the area. However, FLAG Telecom indicated that the cut to the Falcon cable between the United Arab Emirates and Oman was caused by an abandoned anchor weighing five to six tons.\n\nIn mid April two ships were impounded in connection with the FLAG Telecom outages near Dubai. They were charged with improperly dropping anchor in the area of the cuts.\n\nThe 19 December breaks were reported to be caused either by bad weather or a ship's anchor, though the bad weather was just a possibility and the anchor a much more likely occurrence.\n\nAccording to Stephen Beckert, a senior analyst at TeleGeography, the events are far less exceptional than they seem because cable cuts happen all the time. Beckert argues that \"only the first two cuts had any serious impact on the Internet,\" and this drew public attention to other cable cuts that would not normally have been newsworthy. According to Beckert, cable cuts happen \"on average once every three days.\" He further noted that there are 25 large ships that do nothing but fix cable cuts and bends, and that such cuts are usually the result of cables rubbing against rocks on the sea floor.\n\nAccording to Global Marine Systems, \"Undersea cable damage is hardly rare—indeed, more than 50 repair operations were mounted in the Atlantic alone last year\". While a cut in a cable crossing the Atlantic has \"no significant effect\" due to the many alternate cables, only a handful of Internet cables serve the Middle East. These disruptions are only noticeable because of the small number of cables.\n\nSince Israel and Iraq were not affected by the communications blackout, conspiracy theories have begun to spread throughout the Internet.\n\nOn 6 February, theories that the disruption in these cables was related to an economic confrontation between the United States and Iran appeared in an opinion piece on Dow Jones Marketwatch. This article points out that the disruption or damage to these cables preceded the intended launch of the Iranian oil bourse on Kish Island between 1 and 11 February. The launch of this bourse, which was intended to broker sales of oil denominated in euros (sometimes called \"petroeuros\") had been interpreted by some as an attempt by Iran to inflict additional damage to the value of the dollar by reducing the volume of oil which is traded in \"petrodollars\". Given the potential economic damage of euro-denominated oil sales in the context of on-going dollar inflation, as well as the large number of cables which appear to have been disrupted or damaged, Marketwatch's John Dvorak has written that the U.S. can expect to be blamed for the disruptions.\n\nAccording to this sabotage theory, the damaged cables and the resulting Internet disruptions would destroy confidence in the ability of the Iranian Oil Bourse to execute trades, thereby thwarting the establishment of an alternative to dollar-denominated oil sales. In fact, Iran suffered very little from the outages, which primarily affected America's allies in the region (see 'Effects' above). Bloggers have also suggested that the cable disruptions were a cover for NSA installing taps on the lines for eavesdropping.\n\nOn Monday, 18 February, the International Telecommunication Union said that the damage could have been an act of sabotage. The UN agency's head of development, Sami al-Murshed was quoted, \"We do not want to preempt the results of ongoing investigations, but we do not rule out that a deliberate act of sabotage caused the damage to the undersea cables over two weeks ago.\"\nThis was subsequently shown false, as on April 18, two ships parked in a restricted area during a storm, cutting the cables with their anchors. One sailor from each vessel was detained, as were both vessels. The vessels were subsequently released after restitution for the damaged cables was secured.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49475790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49475790", "title": "2015 Sindh road accident", "text": "2015 Sindh road accident\n\nAt least 62 people died in a collision between a bus and oil tanker in Sindh, Pakistan. The bus carried 62 people inside and 10 on the top, most of them sleeping at the time of the collision. Only traveling a small distance, the bus crashed in the outskirts of Karachi on a single track road that connects to the Super Highway. One of the factors was careless driving as the driver of the tanker, who eventually survived but fled the scene, was speeding on the wrong side of the road that suffered from poor conditions. Immediately after the crash, a gas cylinder ignited, causing the bus to catch on fire. The heat melted some of the metal frame on the bus, causing rescuers to cut open the vehicle to obtain some of the bodies.\n\n"}
{"id": "97820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=97820", "title": "526 BC", "text": "526 BC\n\nThe year 526 BC was a year of the pre-Julian Roman calendar. In the Roman Empire, it was known as year 244 \"Ab urbe condita\". The denomination 526 BC for this year has been used since the early medieval period, when the Anno Domini calendar era became the prevalent method in Europe for naming years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21110969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21110969", "title": "Alabama (John Coltrane song)", "text": "Alabama (John Coltrane song)\n\n\"Alabama\" is a composition written by John Coltrane that appears on his album \"Live at Birdland\" (1963). It was written in response to the 16th Street Baptist Church bombing on September 15, 1963, an attack by the Ku Klux Klan in Birmingham, Alabama that killed four African-American girls.\n\nColtrane's Quartet performed this piece on television for an episode of Jazz Casual in 1963.\n\n\"Alabama\" was performed on the 2016 Jack DeJohnette album \"In Movement\" with two musicians whose fathers played on the original version--bassist Matthew Garrison and saxophonist Ravi Coltrane.\n\n"}
{"id": "51046556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51046556", "title": "Amfiteatrof Music Festival", "text": "Amfiteatrof Music Festival\n\nAmfiteatrof Music Festival (previously known as Festival Massimo Amfiteatrof) is a classical and chamber music festival based in Levanto, an Italian \"Comune\" in the ligurian Riviera, between Genoa and La Spezia, since 1992. <br>\nThe festival pays tribute to Massimo Amfiteatrof (born Maksim Aleksandrovich Amfiteatrov), one of the greatest cellist of the 20th century, dubbed as the \"Cellists' Caruso\" (Italian: \"\"il Caruso dei Violoncellisti\"), who moved from St. Petersburg to Italy in the early 1920s, settling first in Cavi, a \"frazione\" of Lavagna, and then in Levanto, where he died in 1990. During his lifetime Amfiteatrof worked with Arturo Toscanini and Fabrizio De André and collaborated with EIAR and subsequently with RAI. <br>\nThe Festival has been being organized by Associazione Festival Massimo Amfiteatrof Levanto since its beginning and the administrative board is currently led by president Angela Fenwick \n\nFounded two years after Amfiteatrof's death, Amfiteatrof Music Festival offers every summer, from july to september, a considerable number of concerts and music performances.\nThe festival is well known for the architectonic, historic and geographic hallmarks of the sites where they are held: old churches, castles, noble houses, small scenic squares (the so-called \"piazzettes\"), old towns and convents, gardens, parks and amazing heights and cliffs overlooking the Ligurian sea. Partly due to these features, a large number of tourists, including foreigners, regularly attend the concerts during the summer season in the Levanto area, near to the Cinque Terre towns. <br> \n\nAll the concerts are free entry with the exception of those requiring an early reservation, such as premieres, debuts, theatre shows and very famous musicians' recitals, often located in prestigious sites (for example, the gardens of Villa Agnelli in Levanto, which belonged to Gianni Agnelli). <br> \n\nAmfiteatrof Music Festival features classical and chamber music performances by many internationally renowned soloists and ensembles. Formative and didactic workshops, cultural lectures, children theatre and contemporary experimental performances, which blend music with other arts, also make the event. Many musicians and orchestra conductors collaborated with Amfiteatrof during his lifetime or were tied with him from caring relationships and that's one of the main reasons why they frequently come back in Levanto to perform again.\nDuring the early years the major place of the Festival was the Convento della Santissima Annunziata in Levanto. Later on, it has been moved to the outside yard of St. Andrew's Church (Chiesa di Sant'Andrea). Nowadays there are more locations than before - both internal and external ones - in Levanto, but also in the nearby villages of the Province of La Spezia, such as Framura, Bonassola (on the Riviera) and Brugnato (within the inner Province)\n\nPopular and recurrent performers of the Festival are: Camerata RCO (soloists of the Royal Concertgebouw Orchestra), ensemble-in-residence from 2009 to 2015, Dynamis Ensemble, Elena Denisova, Moni Ovadia, Alexander Lonquich, the chamber musicians of Maggio Musicale Fiorentino, Palo Alto Chamber Orchestra, Andrea Bacchetti, Mariangela Vacatello, Domenico Nordio, Bruno Canino - Antonio Ballista piano duo and many other popular artists\n\nAmfiteatrof Music Festival locations are in Levanto and in the nearby \"Comuni\".\n\nAmfiteatrof Music Festival concerts or musical events also take place in the pedestrian paths and in the cliffs upon the Ligurian Sea, near to the aforementioned \"Comuni\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11933955", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11933955", "title": "Animation Block Party", "text": "Animation Block Party\n\nAnimation Block Party is an annual animation film festival in New York City, usually held over three days in late July.\n\nOn September 9, 2004, Casey Safron, the event's founder, curated the first Animation Block Party, held in Williamsburg, Brooklyn. The event was rated one of the top five smaller film festivals in the area. The following year, Animation Block Party opened for international submissions, acquired corporate sponsorship and expanded to become an annual festival with juried awards and prizes for participating animators. In 2006, the festival expanded to its current multi-day format, drawing an average of over 2,500 attendees per summer. Based in Brooklyn, the event shows animation from both U.S. and international filmmakers. In 2011, Animation Block Party received 654 submissions, screening 97 of them at their 8th annual festival.\n\nAnimation Block Party expanded to a four-day festival in 2013, including an opening night concert with performances by Adam Green, Hooray for Earth, Tim Harrington, and others, and exclusive animation from Cartoon Network, Nickelodeon and Pixar.\n\nAnimation Block Party has held traveling shows in Philadelphia, Austin, Omaha, Boston and Los Angeles, including a 2014 Valentine's Day showcase at The Troubadour in West Hollywood, which included original shorts from MTV Other, Nickelodeon, Six Point Harness, Loopdeloop and Bill Plympton.\n\nAnimation Block Party also has a production division called Animation Block, which has turned several pieces from the festival into series. In 2008, Animation Block produced the series \"Perfectland\" for MTV, which premiered on April 22, 2008. In 2009, Animation Block produced the series \"Breakfast\" for the Sundance Channel, as well as a 28 episode web series for My Damn Channel.\n\n"}
{"id": "40040109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40040109", "title": "Anoshazad", "text": "Anoshazad\n\nAnoshazad, known in the Shahnameh as Noshzad (meaning \"son of the immortal\"), was a Sasanian prince who was the leader of a revolt in southern Iran in ca. 550. He was the oldest son of king Khosrow I (r. 531-579), while his mother was a Christian and the daughter of the judge (\"dadwar\") of Ray.\n\n\"Anōshāzād\" is a Middle Persian name, while \"Nōshzād\" () is the New Persian form. The Greek form of the name is \"Anasozados\". Whether it is really a proper name, or rather an epithet, is unclear.\n\nAccording to several sources, Anoshazad was sometime before his revolt imprisoned in Gundeshapur by his father. According to Dinavari and Ferdowsi, it was because he had converted to Christianity. However, this is unlikely since neither Procopius nor Ibn al-Athir calls him a Christian; according to Procopius, Anoshazad was imprisoned for seducing some of his father's wives, while Ibn al-Athir states that he was imprisoned because he was suspected of being a crypto-Manichaean.\n\nAccording to Dinavari, while Khosrow I was campaigning in Syria against the Byzantines, he fell ill at Emesa—according to Nöldeke, however, Khosrow never reached the city and instead returned to his capital, Ctesiphon. He further states that Anoshazad had spread false rumours of Khosrow having a deadly sickness. Anoshazad thereafter raised an army, which consisted of prisoners and Christians from Ahvaz and Gundeshapur. However, according to Nöldeke, Fariburz most likely didn't manage to get support from a large number of Christians, which he tried to do so by stating that his mother was a Christian. Nevertheless, he managed to capture Ahvaz and seize its riches.\n\nBurzin, who was Khosrow's vice-regent at Ctesiphon, shortly sent an army under Fariburz to besiege Gundeshapur, and informed Khosrow of the revolt. Khosrow thereafter ordered him bring Anoshazad back alive if possible, and to kill all the nobles participating in his revolt, but not the ordinary people. The revolt of Anoshazad was eventually suppressed, while he was captured and taken to Ctesiphon, where he was blinded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46330507", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46330507", "title": "Battle of Yarmouk Camp (2015)", "text": "Battle of Yarmouk Camp (2015)\n\nThe Battle of Yarmouk Camp (2015) was a battle that broke out in April 2015, during the Syrian Civil War, when the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant stormed the rebel-held Yarmouk Camp. The Yarmouk Camp is a district of Damascus that is home to the largest community of Palestinian refugees in Syria.\n\nOn 17 December 2012, the Free Syrian Army and anti-government Palestinians took control of the camp. After subsequent heavy fighting, the FSA and the Syrian Army agreed to leave Yarmouk as a neutral, demilitarized zone, but the camp remained besieged and sporadic clashes continued. Syrian government forces besieged Yarmouk for two years, and as a result, approximately 200 people were believed to have died of hunger in 2014.\n\nOn 1 April, Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant militants entered the Yarmouk Refugee Camp from the Hajar Al-Aswad district, but were expelled the next day by Syrian and Palestinian rebels. However, ISIL re-entered the camp on 4 April and took control of 90% of it. Local recruits were among the ISIL forces—having joined the militants due to anger at being starved by the Syrian government and disliking some of the rebel groups that controlled Yarmouk \"for playing politics with the regime rather than confronting it.\"\n\nOn 5 April, Jaysh al-Islam claimed that its fighters were refused access to the camp by al-Nusra Front and that al-Nusra allowed ISIL to enter the camp, which led to some defections from the first party. The al-Nusra Front responded by defending its neutral stance in the conflict and claimed to have mediated a ceasefire. It also denied rumors about the alleged defections. Meanwhile, the Army bombed the camp with 13 barrel bombs. A commander in the Aknaf Bait al-Maqdis was killed during clashes with ISIL.\n\nOn 6 April, it was reported that about 2,000 people were evacuated from the camp since ISIL's attack. The same day, pro-government Palestinian groups led by the Palestine Liberation Army, the PFLP, PFLP-GC and Fatah al-Intifada launched an assault against ISIL. They reportedly captured Morocco Street, Al-Ja’ounah Street and the Martyrs Cemetery and claimed to have killed 36 ISIL militant and controlled 40% of the Yarmouk camp.\n\nOn 7 April, the fighting had ceased, with ISIL in control of 95% of the camp.\n\nOn 12 April, Jaysh al-Islam and allied forces launched a counterattack on the ISIL-held Hajar al-Aswad district and reportedly advanced. Jaysh al-Islam also recaptured Al-Zein street in Yarmouk Camp from ISIL, during a nighttime operation.\n\nBy 16 April, ISIL and al-Nusra were still holding 80% of the Yarmouk Camp, after clashes with Aknaf Bait al-Maqdis and other rebels. Two days later, fighting between the rebels and ISIL expanded to the neighborhoods of al-Qaboun and Barzah. The rebels captured 9 ISIL militants and killed 12 others.\n\nOn 19 April, an activist reported that ISIL was planning to leave the camp, although they had not yet done so. He also revealed that most of the al-Nusra Front fighters in Yarmouk Camp had defected to ISIL, and that the two groups were closely collaborating in the area. By then, Aknaf Bai al-Maqdis had dissolved and joined Syrian Government forces. By 20 April, the ISIL attack on the two districts had been repelled.\n\nAfter the retreat of ISIL from the al-Qaboun and Barzah districts, the UN continued trying to bring relief aid into Yarmouk Camp. However, the camp remained sealed off, and the relief workers were only able to deliver supplies to the communities outside of Yarmouk Camp. ISIL control was eventually shrunk to 40% of the area, with another 20% being contested. Meanwhile, talks continued for making the Yarmouk Camp a neutral region, with plans for the expulsion of all gunmen from the area.\n\nFighting between ISIL and government forces continued in the camp into late May. On 8 June 2015, Palestinian militias in Yarmouk Camp reportedly expelled ISIL from the area of Damascus. However, three weeks later, it was revealed that Yarmouk Camp was still under siege by Syrian Army forces.\n\nThe Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant (ISIL) launched a big assault in the Yarmouk Camp, targeting the neighbourhoods controlled by Aknaf Beit Al-Maqdis and Jaysh Al-Islam.\n\nAccording to the terrorist group’s official media wing, their forces captured the Yarmouk Hospital and several buildings nearby after overtaking the Islamist fighters in the southern part of the district.\n\nMost of the Yarmouk Camp is under the occupation of the Islamic State, which leaves the remaining civilians inside the district at the mercy of the terrorist group.\n\nWhile the Syrian Red Crescent and U.N. have attempted to deliver humanitarian aid to the beleaguered neighbourhoods of Yarmouk, they have found themselves often blocked by the Islamic State terrorists manning checkpoints between this district and nearby Palestine Camp.\n\nOn 5 January 2018, Jaysh al-Islam fighters attempted to infiltrate ISIL positions within the orchards situated in-between Yalda and Hajjar As-Aswad. After weeks of sporadic clashes, ISIL managed to capture 3/4 of Yarmouk Camp. By 27 January, ISIL almost entirely controlled Hajjar al-Aswad after breaking through the last lines of defense, and were on the verge of entering the town of Yalda. During the same time, further areas had also been captured in Yarmouk district.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41816371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41816371", "title": "Bernard Waldman", "text": "Bernard Waldman\n\nBernard Waldman (October 12, 1913 – November 1, 1986) was an American physicist who flew on the Hiroshima atomic bombing mission as a cameraman during World War II.\n\nA graduate of New York University, joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame in 1938. During World War II, he served in the United States Navy as an engineering officer. He headed a group that conducted blast measurements for the Trinity nuclear test, and served on Tinian with Project Alberta.\n\nAfter the war he returned to Notre Dame. He was director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association Laboratory from 1960 to 1964, dean of its Notre Dame College of Science at Notre Dame from 1967 to 1979, and associate director of the National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory from 1979 to 1983.\n\nBernard Waldman was born in New York City on October 12, 1913. He attended New York University, from which he received Bachelor of Science and Doctor of Philosophy degrees. His thesis, on \"The Resonance Processes in the Disintegration of Boron by Protons\", formed the basis of a paper published in the \"Physical Review\". His research supported the estimates of J. Robert Oppenheimer and Robert Serber.\n\nAlthough he was a Congregationalist, Waldman joined the faculty of the University of Notre Dame in 1938. He became an assistant professor in 1941.\n\nDuring World War II, Waldman served in the United States Navy as an engineering officer, and was involved in construction and extension of naval bases in the United States. He took a leave of absence from Notre Dame and joined Oppenheimer and Serber at the Manhattan Project's Los Alamos Laboratory in 1943. He was assigned to Norman F. Ramsey's E-7 Group, which was part of the Ordnance (O) Division responsible for \"integration of design and delivery\". Most of the work involved preparing and checking instrumentation from drop tests involving dummy bombs.\nWaldman was the head of Group TR-6 (Airborne Measurements) for the Trinity nuclear test in July 1945. He developed microphones that were dropped by parachute to measure the effect of the blast. He was then assigned to Project Alberta, the part of the Manhattan Project that oversaw the preparation of facilities to test and deploy nuclear weapons, and support their use during the actual missions. As such, he participated in the atomic bombing of Hiroshima, as a camera operator on the observation aircraft. He was equipped with a special high-speed Fastax movie camera with six seconds of film in order to record the blast. Unfortunately, Waldman forgot to open the camera shutter, and no film was exposed.\n\nAfter the war ended, Waldman returned to Notre Dame, where he continued his research into the photodisintegration of deuterium and beryllium. For a time he was in charge of a 3-million volt particle accelerator that was the world`s second most powerful source of X-rays in 1949. In 1960, Waldman took a sabbatical from Notre Dame to become director of the Midwestern Universities Research Association (MURP) Laboratory. He set about fixing problems with the 50 MeV accelerator. These were resolved, but the Federal Government declined to fund MURP's activities, and Walden returned to Notre Dame in 1964. Waldman was appointed dean of Notre Dame's College of Science in 1967. He held this position August, 1979, when he retired at the age of 65. He then became as associate director of the National Superconducting Cyclotron Laboratory at Michigan State University, a position he held until 1983.\n\nWaldman died in a hospital in Sanford, North Carolina, where he was being treated for cancer, on November 1, 1986. He was survived by his wife, Glenna and three daughters. A funeral service was held at the Basilica of the Sacred Heart on the campus of the University of Notre Dame, and he was interred in its Cedar Grove Cemetery. His papers are in the University of Notre Dame Archives.\n\n"}
{"id": "1751946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1751946", "title": "Bernardo Buontalenti", "text": "Bernardo Buontalenti\n\nBernardo Buontalenti (), byname of Bernardo Delle Girandole (\"c.\" 1531 – 25 or 26 June 1608), was an Italian stage designer, architect, theatrical designer, military engineer and artist.\n\nBuontalenti was born in Florence.\n\nHe entered the service of the Medici as a youth and remained with them the rest of his life. He is said to have been instructed in painting by Salviati and Bronzino, in sculpture by Michelangelo Buonarroti, in architecture by Giorgio Vasari, and to have learned miniature painting under Giulio Clovio. He executed a number of miniatures for Francesco, the son of Cosimo I. More than a painter, he was celebrated as an architect; in this role he was much employed in the design of fortifications, villas, and gardens and is considered one of the most important architects of the Mannerist period. He was also a great mechanic, and an excellent mathematician. In 1562 he travelled to Spain.\n\nHis first known work is from 1568, the Palazzo di Bianca Cappello in Florence. His main achievements include the project for the new city of Livorno, the decoration of Palazzo Pitti and the Boboli Gardens with the famous grotto, as well as the Parco di Pratolino of which little remains today, except for a giant sculpture by Giambologna, representing the Colossus of the Apennines. Buontalenti's skills as a military engineer are shown by the fortifications of the port of Livorno, the Forte di Belvedere in Florence, the city walls of Pistoia, Grosseto, Prato, Portoferraio (Elba) and Naples; he also perfected designs for cannons, and devised a new type of incendiary grenade.\n\nIn the Uffizi Palace of Florence, he built a great court stage, where, during the winter of 1585–1586, splendid festivities were produced under his direction. He designed costumes for the Medici extravaganzas. He was also an innovator in ice conservation and is credited with inventing the precursor to modern Florentine cream. \n\nDespite his successes, his prodigality led Buontalenti to financial ruin; he survived in his later life thanks to a pension given him by the Grand Duke of Tuscany.\n\n"}
{"id": "58864844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58864844", "title": "Chalakkudykkaran Changathy", "text": "Chalakkudykkaran Changathy\n\nChalakkudykkaran Changathy is a 2018 Indian Malayalam-language drama film directed by Vinayan, featuring Senthil Krishna, Honey Rose, Dharmajan Bolgatty and Salim Kumar in the lead roles. The film was inspired by the real life of Kalabhavan Mani, the central character Rajamani was created after him.\n\nA biographical drama that chronicles the life and the untimely death of actor Rajamani, who rose from his humble beginnings to become one of the most versatile artists in Malayalam cinema.\n\n\nThe music of \"Chalakkudykkaran Changathy\" is by Bijibal and Satheesh Babu. The lyrics are written by B. K. Harinarayanan.\n\n\"Chalakkudykkaran Changathy\" was released on 28 Sep 2018 (India).\n\n\"The Times of India\" and \"Deccan Chronicle\" gave the film a rating of 3.0/5 and \"Mathrubhumi\" gave the film a rating of 2/5.\n\nVinayan had made it clear even before the release of the film that it is not a biopic on Kalabhavan Mani. Now, the climax of the film has become controversial as several questions have been raised regarding the death of Kalabhavan Mani. According to some reports, the investigating agency CBI has asked Vinayan for explanation on the film’s climax. The death of Kalabhavan Mani has been under CBI investigation, after the actor’s family expressed doubts about the reasons for his early death.\n"}
{"id": "46353078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46353078", "title": "City of Edinburgh District Council election, 1984", "text": "City of Edinburgh District Council election, 1984\n\nElections for the City of Edinburgh District Council took place on Thursday 3 May 1984, alongside elections to the councils of Scotland's various other districts.\n\nThe election was the first time Labour had ever won a majority on the Edinburgh Council, with the party winning 34 of the City's 62 seats. The Conservatives came second, on 22 seats, whilst the SDP-Liberal Alliance won 4, and the SNP 2. Labour would retain its dominance for the next 23 years, until the 2007 election. Mark Lazarowicz and Nigel Griffiths played prominent roles in the election, and would later both become Edinburgh Members of Parliament for Labour. Alex Wood was the leader of the Labour group.\n\nFollowing the election a red flag was raised above the Edinburgh City Chambers, but it was taken down after a day.\n"}
{"id": "17917945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17917945", "title": "Crested Butte Wildflower Festival", "text": "Crested Butte Wildflower Festival\n\nThe Crested Butte Wild Flower Festival is a week-long event that takes place annually in July in Crested Butte, Colorado, USA. The flower-focused festival includes hikes, tours, workshops and performances, and raises awareness of environmental issues, including the importance of preserving wild flowers in the city. Thousands of artists, vendors and people from all over the world gather in the town of Crested Butte for a weekend of art, food, dancing and music.\n\n"}
{"id": "9002161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9002161", "title": "Death of Dale Earnhardt", "text": "Death of Dale Earnhardt\n\nDale Earnhardt was an American race car driver who gained worldwide fame as a stock car driver for NASCAR, recording seven Winston Cup championship victories and 76 career wins, including the 1998 Daytona 500. He was killed in a final-lap collision in the Daytona 500 at Daytona International Speedway on February 18, 2001, in which he crashed into the retaining wall after making contact with Sterling Marlin and Ken Schrader. Earnhardt's death was officially pronounced at the nearby Halifax Medical Center at 5:16 p.m. EST (22:16 UTC), although he likely died immediately upon impact. He was 49 years old. His funeral was held four days later at the Calvary Church in Charlotte, North Carolina. Earnhardt's death was highly publicized and resulted in various safety improvements in NASCAR auto racing.\n\nAfter Earnhardt's death, NASCAR began an intensive focus on safety that has seen the organization mandate the use of head-and-neck restraints, oversee the installation of SAFER barriers at oval tracks, set rigorous new inspection rules for seats and seat-belts, develop a roof-hatch escape system, and the Car of Tomorrow—which eventually led to the development of a next-generation race car built with extra driver safety in mind. Earnhardt was the fourth driver to die during NASCAR competition within a year, beginning with Adam Petty's accident in May 2000. Since Earnhardt's death, no Cup series driver has died during competition.\n\nEarnhardt died while competing in the 2001 Daytona 500, a NASCAR-sanctioned automobile race at Daytona International Speedway. NASCAR sanctions required the use of a carburetor restrictor plate for races held at the track. In 2000, the year before Earnhardt died, NASCAR instituted additional restrictions to the springs and shocks used on the cars, causing Earnhardt to complain to the media, \"The rules took NASCAR Winston Cup racing and made it some of the sorriest racing. They took racing out of the hands of the drivers and the crews. We can't adjust and make our cars drive like we want. They just killed the racing at Daytona. This is a joke to have to race like this.\"\n\nIn response to criticism such as Earnhardt's, NASCAR developed a new aerodynamic package for the cars competing in Winston Cup Series races at Daytona and Talladega. In the initial running of this aerodynamic package at Talladega, Earnhardt passed seventeen cars within four laps to win the fall 2000 Talladega race. The 2001 Daytona 500 was the first race run at the track with this package, which was designed to keep cars bunched up close together and to allow more frequent passing at high speed.\n\nIn the weeks before the Daytona 500, Earnhardt elected not to attend the annual fan and media preview event, drawing vocal criticism from fellow driver Jimmy Spencer. On February 3 and 4, 2001, the first time in his career, Earnhardt participated in the Rolex 24 endurance race at Daytona, the event which kicks off Speedweeks at the track. Earnhardt and his teammates, Dale Earnhardt Jr. (Earnhardt's son), Andy Pilgrim and Kelly Collins, finished 4th overall and 2nd in class.\n\nUltimately, however, 2001 Speedweeks would be the first in many years that Earnhardt failed to win one race. In the Budweiser Shootout, Earnhardt finished second to Tony Stewart. Earnhardt was also denied victory in the Gatorade Twin 125 qualifying race. Earnhardt had won every Twin 125 event he competed in during the 1990s, and was poised to win again in 2001 when Sterling Marlin pulled off a slingshot pass going down the backstretch, taking the victory away from Earnhardt.\n\nThe morning of the race, Earnhardt appeared confident and relaxed. Earnhardt was a front-runner throughout the race, leading 17 laps. In the first three quarters of the race, there were only two caution flags: the first one on lap 49 when Jeff Purvis hit the wall exiting turn 4 and the other on lap 157 when rookie Kurt Busch hit the frontstretch wall while trying to pass Joe Nemechek and slid through the infield and onto pit road.\n\nOn lap 173, Earnhardt drove his familiar black No. 3 car in third place, with two of his team's cars, the blue No. 15 Chevrolet driven by Michael Waltrip and the red No. 8 Chevrolet driven by his son Dale Earnhardt, Jr., running first and second in front of him. On that lap, a huge crash on the back straightaway eliminated 18 cars in a spectacular fashion. Those involved in the crash were Jason Leffler, Steve Park (another of Earnhardt's drivers), both Rusty (who would rally back to finish third) and Kenny Wallace, Jeff and Robby Gordon, both Bobby (the defending Cup Champion) and Terry Labonte, Mark Martin, Tony Stewart, Elliott Sadler, Jeff and Ward Burton (who had led the most laps in the race so far with 53), Jerry Nadeau, John Andretti, Buckshot Jones, Dale Jarrett (the defending Daytona 500 winner), and Andy Houston. The crash began when R. Gordon turned W. Burton at the exit of turn 2. Stewart got hit by W. Burton, turned backwards against the outside wall, and was pushed airborne over R. Gordon. Stewart then flipped over twice, hooking to B. Labonte's hood, and stood on his front wheels before coasting to a stop in the infield, while W. Burton's car turned sideways and collected most of the field behind him. Earnhardt, Ron Hornaday, Jr., Ricky Rudd, Ken Schrader, and Mike Wallace were five of the few drivers who escaped the crash scene. The race was red-flagged to remove cars from the racetrack, and clean up debris.\n\nBetween the time of the lap 173 accident and a lap 180 restart, Earnhardt conversed with his pit crew over the radio. The owner of Dale Earnhardt's car, Richard Childress, describes one remark made by Earnhardt during that time. \"Richard, if they don't do something to these cars, it's gonna end up killing somebody.\"\n\nDuring the ensuing caution, Earnhardt had his last conversation with his crew, this between him and his Rolex 24 teammate Andy Pilgrim:\nPilgrim related that there was no further crew conversation with Earnhardt, but that he did cheer on teammates Michael (Waltrip) and (Dale Earnhardt) Junior over the radio, up to the end of the race.\n\nThe race restarted on lap 180, with Waltrip and Dale Earnhardt, Jr. still out in front. Sterling Marlin, who had beaten Earnhardt in the Gatorade Duel, led the next three laps before Waltrip took the lead again. The lead changed several times between Waltrip and Earnhardt Jr. during the next few laps.\n\nAs the laps wound down, Waltrip and Earnhardt, Jr. were running in first and second place, with Earnhardt Sr. behind them, blocking Marlin's attempts to pass. With less than two laps remaining, Fox commentator Darrell Waltrip noted that \"Sterling had beat the front end off of that ol' Dodge (Marlin's car) just trying to get around Dale Earnhardt, Sr.\".\n\nAs the cars entered turn 3 on the final lap, Earnhardt still held third, and was running in the middle lane of traffic. Marlin's No. 40 Dodge was just behind him and running the bottom lane, while R. Wallace's navy blue No. 2 Ford was directly behind Earnhardt and Ken Schrader was above Earnhardt riding the high lane in his yellow No. 36 Pontiac.\n\nThe accident occurred in turn 4, when Earnhardt made light contact with Marlin and slid off course. When Earnhardt attempted to regain control and turned back onto the track, he crossed in front of Schrader, colliding with Schrader and dragging his car up the track. Earnhardt collided head-on into the retaining wall at a critical angle, damaging the car at an estimated speed between , enough to break the right rear wheel assembly off the car. Upon impact, his hood pins severed, causing it to open and slam up against the windshield multiple times. As Michael Waltrip and Dale Earnhardt, Jr. were about to complete the race, both of the wrecked cars went down the steep banking and slid into the infield grass near the exit of turn 4. No other drivers hit Earnhardt or Schrader after the crash, as they were able to make it past them without incident. After both cars came to a stop on the infield, Schrader escaped his car with minor injuries and went to check on Earnhardt. Earnhardt's window net was still up, and Schrader pulled it down himself, then frantically signalled for paramedics. That day, and in retellings of the events, Schrader described what he saw in indirect terms: \"We've got bigger problems\", \"Look, I'm not a doctor, I'm telling you it don't look good.\" Only shortly after the 10-year anniversary when asked about it, did Schrader finally say, \"Here's the deal. When I went up to the car ... I knew. I knew he was dead, yeah. ... I didn't want to be the one who said 'Dale is dead.'\"\n\nRace officials threw the checkered flag and the yellow simultaneously as the front-runners crossed the finish line, aware only that a crash had occurred behind the finishers. Waltrip won the race, with Earnhardt, Jr. finishing second behind him. Rusty Wallace finished third, Ricky Rudd finished fourth, polesitter Bill Elliott finished fifth, Wallace's brother Mike finished sixth, Marlin finished seventh, Bobby Hamilton finished eighth, Jeremy Mayfield finished ninth, and outside polesitter Stacy Compton finished 10th. Joe Nemechek finished 11th. Earnhardt and Schrader were credited finishing 12th and 13th despite not completing the final lap (only 11 cars – Waltrip and Earnhardt Jr. included – finished on the lead lap as a result of the long green flag runs and the lap 173 crash). Afterwards, Earnhardt, Jr. rushed to his father's location. \n\nAs per NASCAR rules, any driver involved in a crash and unable to drive back to the pits or who must be extricated from their car, must report to the infield hospital. However, in severe cases, the driver may be sent directly to the emergency trauma room at the hospital near the circuit. Earnhardt was extricated from his car by Daytona's safety teams and was taken to the Halifax Medical Center. Attempts to revive Earnhardt failed and his death was officially pronounced at 5:16 p.m. EST (22:16 UTC); he was 49 years old. The official cause of Earnhardt's death was given by the Volusia County medical examiner's office as blunt force trauma to his head among other injuries due to the incident. He also sustained a fatal basilar skull fracture on impact.\n\nLess than two hours after the accident, NASCAR president Mike Helton announced Earnhardt's death. A later investigation revealed that Earnhardt's car struck the concrete retaining wall at a heading angle (angle of the vehicle measured from the wall face to the center-line of the car at point of impact) of between 55–59°, combined with a trajectory angle of 13.6° (path of vehicle approaching the wall) and an estimated speed between . Earnhardt experienced a crash impulse of approximately 80 milliseconds in duration. The result of the wall impact and the impact from Schrader's car combined to yield a change in velocity of approximately . The force exerted was equivalent to a vertical drop from a height of . Later sled testing of an exemplar vehicle yielded g-forces ranging from −68 to −48 g, variation dependent on method of measurement.\n\nEarnhardt's death triggered widespread media attention. One newspaper called the day \"Black Sunday\". Devastated fans congregated at the headquarters of Richard Childress Racing and Dale Earnhardt, Inc. the night of the crash and at Daytona International Speedway. Earnhardt was featured in the following week's \"Time\" magazine, and a video from the race was played on nearly every major television channel in the United States.\n\nEarnhardt's public funeral service was held on February 22, 2001 at the Calvary Church in Charlotte, North Carolina. His death led both to a police investigation and NASCAR-sanctioned investigation. In a reversal of previous NASCAR policy, nearly every detail of the investigation was made public.\n\nDays after the crash, Sterling Marlin received hate mail and death threats from fans who blamed him for Earnhardt's death. Dale Earnhardt, Jr. absolved Marlin of responsibility and asked everyone who loved his father to stop assigning blame for his death. On February 20, Marlin announced to the world about his responsibility:\nIn the week following the accident, Bill Simpson, whose company—Simpson Performance Products—made the seatbelt Earnhardt wore during the race, also reported that he had also received death threats from angry fans. When asked about this, Darrell Waltrip stated that \"NASCAR is an emotion sport and that all the fans love their drivers, so when something like this happens, the connection to these racers makes you want to blame somebody and that somebody had to be involved and unfortunately, the blame was placed in the wrong place here\".\n\nTeam owner Richard Childress made a public pledge that a black car with a GM Goodwrench sponsorship would no longer use the number 3, honoring the color scheme and sponsor that Earnhardt had driven with since 1988. Given the No. 3 team's 12th-place finish in the race, 2000 season status as second in owner points, and presence on the Winner's Circle bonus program, Childress requested (and NASCAR approved) the team to be renumbered to 29. The renumbered team retained the same sponsor, although the car was adorned with a reversed color scheme—a white body with black numerals and a black stripe on the bottom—for races at Rockingham and Las Vegas. The team kept all bonuses earned as the No. 3 team in 2000 and the Daytona 500. For the race at Atlanta, a new GM Goodwrench Service Plus paint-scheme was introduced, along with angled red stripes and a thin blue pinstripe resembling the AC Delco-sponsored Chevrolets driven in the Busch Series. From 2003 to 2006, when the GM Goodwrench Service Plus sponsorship came to an end, the No. 29 car was painted in black and silver, bearing a resemblance to the No. 3. From 2001 - 2013, a small No. 3 decal was placed alongside the No. 29 in Earnhardt's memory and the team's legacy. On December 11, 2013, RCR announced that the No. 3 car would return to the Cup Series for Austin Dillon.\n\nChildress's second-year Busch Series driver Kevin Harvick was tapped to replace Earnhardt beginning with the first race after his death—the Dura Lube 400, held at North Carolina Speedway in Rockingham, North Carolina. Hats bearing the No. 3 logo were distributed to everyone at the track in Earnhardt's memory. Initially, the Childress team wore blank uniforms out of respect but as Harvick's performance improved, the regular GM Goodwrench Service Plus uniforms returned with the team scoring a Top 10 finish by the next race in Las Vegas, and winning the next week in Atlanta. Jeff Gordon, the polesitter for Dura Lube 400, gave a missing man formation during the pace laps. This was a custom used in motorsports for mourning. Steve Park would win that race, but felt emotional in Victory Lane.\n\nHarvick's win at Atlanta has since been memorable to many NASCAR fans. On the last lap of the Cracker Barrel Old Country Store 500, he beat Gordon by .006 seconds, a similar margin to Earnhardt's win over Bobby Labonte during the same race a year before (.010 seconds), and the images of Earnhardt's longtime gas man, Danny \"Chocolate\" Myers, crying after the victory, Harvick's tire-smoking burnout on the frontstretch with three fingers held aloft outside the driver's window, and the Fox television call by Mike Joy, Larry McReynolds, and Darrell Waltrip, concluding with \"Gordon got loose, but he [Harvick] is gonna get him though, it's Harvick! Harvick by inches!\"\n\nDale Earnhardt, Jr. won the Pepsi 400 on July 7, 2001. This led to an emotional celebration on the infield with Michael Waltrip (who finished second), whose victory at the Daytona 500 had been rendered hollow by the senior Earnhardt's death. Earnhardt, Jr. would win two more races that season (the fall races at Dover and Talladega), for an eighth-place finish in the points standings.\n\nThe team still scored a ninth-place finish in points for the 2001 season, led by Harvick's two wins and Top 10 finishes in the points. Harvick also captured Rookie of the Year honors as well.\n\nFans honored Earnhardt by holding three fingers aloft on the third lap of every NASCAR Winston Cup race. Meanwhile, NASCAR's television partners also went silent for the third lap, a practice that was repeated until the 2002 race at Rockingham, and in the 2011 Daytona 500, ten years after his death. Later in 2001, some of these gestures were also done in remembrance of the victims of the September 11 attacks.\n\nEarnhardt was credited finishing 57th in the final point standings for 2001, despite competing in only one race. He also won the 2001 Most Popular Driver Award at the end of year awards' ceremony. Perennial winner Bill Elliott bowed out of the running and encouraged his supporters to vote for Earnhardt instead.\n\nAt a news conference five days after the crash, NASCAR officials announced that the left lap belt on Earnhardt's seat belt harness had broken. Dr. Steve Bohannon, NASCAR's medical expert, said he thought the faulty belt had allowed Earnhardt's chin to strike the steering wheel, causing the fatal basilar skull fracture. This led to speculation that Earnhardt would have survived if his seat belt had not broken.\n\nThe first paramedics to respond to the crash scene maintained that the seat belts had been loose, but the lap belt was not broken or cut when the belts were unbuckled to cut Earnhardt from the car. However, NASCAR's investigation concluded that each of the EMTs who attended to Earnhardt after the crash reported that the buckle position of Earnhardt's harness was off-center by , which would have been impossible had the lap belt not broken.\n\nA subsequent medical investigation revealed that belt failure did not play a significant role in Earnhardt's death.\n\nAt the time of the accident, Simpson Performance Products—the company which manufactured the seat belts—manufactured the seat belts used in nearly every NASCAR competitor's machine. Bill Simpson, the company's founder, maintained that the belt had failed because it had been installed in an unapproved fashion in order to increase Earnhardt's comfort, an allegation that had been supported by some who were familiar with the situation.\nEd Hinton, a sportswriter for the \"Orlando Sentinel\", attempted to acquire Earnhardt's autopsy records and photos for study, as autopsy records were normally public documents in Florida. However, Earnhardt's widow Teresa Earnhardt petitioned a judge to seal the records. After a short court battle, it was mutually agreed to appoint Dr. Barry Myers, an expert on crash injuries at Duke University, to independently study Earnhardt's death. On April 10, 2001, Myers published his report rejecting NASCAR's explanation, finding that Earnhardt's death was the result of his inadequately restrained head and neck snapping forward, independent of the broken seat belt (rendering the question of improper installation moot).\nPhilip Villanueva, a University of Miami neurosurgeon who had previously analyzed the crash for the \"Sentinel\" before the autopsy records were available, said he had reached the same conclusion but had wanted to examine the autopsy photos to be certain. Dr. Steve Olvey, who had been the medical director of CART for 22 years, and Wayne State University crash expert John Melvin also agreed with Myers' report. Bill Simpson said that the report was \"The best news I've heard in seven weeks. I've been living in daily hell.\"\n\nOn the same day as Myers' report was made public, NASCAR announced its own investigation, after having remained silent for six weeks since the crash. The official NASCAR report, which had cost over a million dollars and was published on August 21, 2001, concluded that Earnhardt's death was the result of a combination of factors, which included the last-second collision with Schrader's car, the speed and angle of impact, and the separation of the seat belt as being contributing factors. It was also noted that investigators could not determine whether a head and neck support (HANS) device would have saved Earnhardt's life, and that airline-style black boxes would be mandated for all vehicles in order to better understand the forces at work in a crash such as Earnhardt's.\n\nIn July 2001, Bill Simpson left Simpson Performance Products, citing the stress as \"too much\". The Simpson company attorneys asked NASCAR to unequivocally assert the following in regards to the broken lap belt found in Earnhardt's car:\nNASCAR, however, did not respond.\n\nA year after leaving his own company under controversy, Simpson returned to the motorsports safety industry after his one-year non-compete clause expired, starting IMPACT! Racing Products.\n\nAfter the accident, there were several safety improvements made in the sport of stock car racing.\n\nIn response to the speculation about the broken lap belt in Earnhardt's car, many teams migrated from traditional five to six-point safety harnesses.\n\nAt the time of NASCAR's accident report, there were no rules requiring drivers to wear HANS devices. NASCAR president Mike Helton stated, \"We are still not going to react for the sake of reacting.\" However, NASCAR did wish to \"encourage their use\". By August 19, 2001, 41 out of 43 drivers were wearing them at the Pepsi 400 by Meijer at Michigan International Speedway, just two days before NASCAR's report came out.\n\nTwo months later, after the 2001 ARCA EasyCare 100 at Lowe's Motor Speedway resulted in the death of Blaise Alexander, NASCAR mandated the use of head and neck restraints. Earnhardt's eldest son Kerry Earnhardt was involved in the crash that killed Alexander, although Kerry was not injured.\n\nIn addition to head and neck restraints, NASCAR began requiring the use of SAFER barriers at race tracks in which its top touring series compete. The soft walls feature foam and move slightly upon impact, dissipating energy and resulting in fewer forces being exerted on the driver during an impact.\n\nSoon after Earnhardt's death, NASCAR began developing the Car of Tomorrow (CoT), which was used in competition in the Sprint Cup Series until it was replaced by the so-called \"Gen 6\" car for the 2013 season. The design of the CoT incorporated the result of research conducted in the aftermath of Earnhardt's death. All of the safety improvements from the CoT remain in the Gen 6 design.\n\nOn February 19, 2001, the Volusia County Medical Examiner performed an autopsy for Earnhardt. The unusual act of notifying NASCAR and Teresa Earnhardt was made prior to releasing the records sought by members of the public and media. Three days later, Teresa Earnhardt filed a legal brief in the Circuit Court of the Seventh Judicial Circuit, in and for Volusia County, Florida \"(Case No. 2001-30373-CICI Div. 32)\". Once the complaint was filed, the medical examiner's office was barred from releasing the public records, including autopsy photographs, pertaining to Earnhardt, until a formal hearing on the merits of Teresa Earnhardt's case could be heard.\nOn February 28, March 13, and March 16, 2001, the \"Orlando Sentinel\"; Michael Uribe, founder of WebsiteCity.com; and Campus Communications, Inc., publisher of the University of Florida's student newspaper \"The Independent Florida Alligator\" filed motions to intervene into the Earnhardt v. Volusia litigation in order to uphold their rights to inspect and copy public records held by the Volusia County Medical Examiner to include the photographs and videotape of Dale Earnhardt's autopsy examination.\n\nFrom June 12 to June 13, 2001, a trial was then conducted before Judge Joseph Will. Will eventually ruled against Uribe and CCI's original public records requests and constitutional arguments to inspect and copy the medical examiner files pertaining to Earnhardt, to include autopsy photographs. Judge Will's ruling set forth in motion an extensive legal battle later fought in the appellate courts by both Uribe and CCI seeking to deem the denial of their public records request unconstitutional under Florida State and Federal laws. Then on December 1, 2003, the United States Supreme Court declined to hear Uribe and CCI's appeal. Thus, the Florida Legislature's March 29, 2001, law preventing release of Earnhardt's public record autopsy photographs would remain in effect.\n\nThe Florida Legislature's March 29, 2001 law, also known as the Earnhardt Family Protection Act, was sponsored by Daytona Beach's Senator Jim King (R-Jacksonville) and changed Florida's previously long standing and historically open public records laws from that day onward. The Earnhardt law deemed Florida's medical examination autopsy photographs, video, and audio recordings exempt from public inspection without the express permission from applicable next of kin.\n\nIn April 2002, a year after Earnhardt's death, TLC singer Lisa Lopes was killed in a car accident in Honduras. A controversy similar to the release of Earnhardt's autopsy photos occurred, as within days of Lopes' crash, autopsy photos began to circulate on the Internet. All three of Earnhardt's drivers (Steve Park; Dale Earnhardt, Jr.; and Michael Waltrip) responded in protest to the leak by painting a single black stripe next to their cars' left headlight decals for the Pontiac Excitement 400 at Richmond International Raceway.\n\n"}
{"id": "2401586", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2401586", "title": "Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft", "text": "Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft\n\nThe Deutsche Tourenwagen Meisterschaft (German Touring Car Championship, or DTM) was a touring car racing series held from 1984 to 1996. Originally based in Germany, it held additional rounds elsewhere in Europe and later worldwide.\n\nThe original DTM had resumed racing with production based cars, as the former Deutsche Rennsport Meisterschaft had switched to Group 5 in 1977 and even to expensive Group C sportscars in 1982, leading to its decline. Since 2000, a new DTM has been run as the Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters, again organised by \"ITR\".\n\nThe original DTM was started in 1984 as Deutschen Produktionswagen Meisterschaft (German Production Car Championship), with cars entered by privateer teams and under FIA Group A rules, but was extensively modified throughout the years, allowing more modifications. In the late 1980s, works teams joined the DTM, and it became one of the most popular motorsport championships in Europe.\n\nTurbochargers were banned at the start of 1988 season due to cost reasons.\n\nIn 1993, the Group A rules were abandoned in favor of a more liberalised 2.5 L engine category called FIA Class 1 Touring Cars, with extensive use of ABS, four-wheel drive, electronic driver aids and carbon fibre chassis, the former three were technologies that were banned from F1. Opel, Mercedes-Benz and Alfa Romeo all fielded works teams after Audi and BMW had abandoned earlier.\n\nThe DTM expanded its horizons for the 1995 season and the teams contested the inaugural FIA International Touring Car Series as well as the traditional DTM. The former was contested over ten races, all held outside of Germany and the latter over fourteen races within Germany. Plans were then made to combine the two into one new series, the International Touring Car Championship, for 1996. The ITR governing body then sought approval and support from the FIA to begin the new series. In exchange for FIA support, the ITR let the organisation take control over many aspects of the way the ITC was run: crucially, the financial side of the championship was revolutionised. A large proportion of the revenue generated by the championship went to the FIA, with the result that less went to the teams who subsequently complained of little return on their increasingly large investment in the high-tech series (this was further exacerbated by the travel costs to the new international rounds in Suzuka, Japan and Interlagos, Brazil). The FIA also increased the price for television rights dramatically with the result that television coverage of the series disappeared from all European countries except Italy, Germany and Finland, prices for tickets to races were almost doubled, and access to the circuit paddock to meet the drivers (which had previously been a big hit with fans) was drastically reduced. The choices of circuits on which to hold rounds of the championship were also unsuccessful – the rounds at Magny-Cours, France and particularly Interlagos suffered very poor attendance. Questions were also raised by the manufacturers as to why they were racing in countries in which their cars were not actually sold (Alfa Romeos were not sold in Brazil). Opel and Alfa Romeo both left the championship after the 1996 season, leaving only Mercedes; the championship was consequently cancelled.\n\nThe DTM returned in the year 2000 with different rules and with semi-International Championship status. The DTM initials now stand for Deutsche Tourenwagen Masters (German Touring Car Masters).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20494796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20494796", "title": "Diversionary foreign policy", "text": "Diversionary foreign policy\n\nA diversionary foreign policy, or a diversionary war, is an international relations term that identifies a war instigated by a country's leader in order to distract its population from their own domestic strife. The concept stems from the Diversionary War Theory, which states that leaders who are threatened by domestic turmoil occasionally initiate an international conflict in order to shift the nation's attention away from internal troubles. As a result, this external threat would counter the domestic strife and ensure the leader's position in power. Essentially, a diversionary use of force is a manipulation of the Rally Round the Flag Syndrome effect, causing an increase of national fervor from the general public.\n\nMany scholars of International Relations have dedicated much research to the practical application of diversionary war. A large percentage investigates Presidents of the United States and their disputed culpability partaking in diversionary foreign policy.\nDespite the immense amount of effort and research, scholars have not yet formed a consensus of the accuracy of the theory, and empirical evidence is mixed at best.\n\nIntended\n\nGenerally, the pursuit of a diversionary foreign policy may offer the leader in power four benefits, all of which increase their ability to remain in power:\n\n\nNegative\n\nHowever, all of these benefits depend on success in the diversionary war that the government facing domestic strife incites. Failure in these international actions would backfire against the leader's initial intent. As a result, the leader would likely face more domestic strife, possibly hastening his or her loss of power \nNevertheless, this possible negative effect is addressed in the Diversionary War Theory. The theory itself states that rational leaders facing a near inevitable removal from office become more likely to gamble on a risky diversionary war. If the existing dissatisfaction is prompting their removal from office, a diversionary foreign policy only leaves room for gain \n\nAlthough the theory was not officially addressed in academia until the past half-century, the benefits of a diversionary foreign policy had long been accepted by governments and others as conventional wisdom.\n\nIn 1956, Simmel and Lewis A. Coser both published work applying the in-group/out-group psychology hypothesis towards International Relations. Essentially, their work postulated that populations of nations increase their cohesion during times of conflict with an out-group (another nation, organization, etc.).\nThis often includes rallying around the country's leader. As an example, President George W. Bush's approval ratings soared to 80% following the attacks on September 11, 2001. This type of response suggests that leaders have an incentive to manufacture conflict whenever they are in the need of a boost of popularity.\n\nFrom this assertion, scholars have used this conventional wisdom to expand and test the theory's true applications.\nA significant number of studies have attempted to establish connections between the instigation of war as a way to divert attention from a struggling economy, or general low approval ratings.\nIn addition, the theory has diverged into contemporary and traditional perspectives.\n\nThe purpose of diversionary foreign policy is to divert the attention of the public away from domestic issues. This means that the conditions leading to diversionary tactics include any sort of domestic unrest. This incorporates dissatisfaction with domestic policies and poor economic conditions. The theory predicts that the use of external force will increase the chance of reelection, so it would be used during a time when the president does not seem to have a good chance of reelection. The necessary conditions of the opposing state differ based on which theory one ascribes to, traditional or contemporary. The traditional view of diversionary foreign policy suggests that a state will target another in which conflict is likely to be prolonged, which would be against states with comparable military capabilities. According to this point of view, the prospect of victory is not the most important aspect in choosing an enemy because it is based on a sociological \"in-group/out-group\" perspective. This refers to the increase of cohesion among the \"in-group\" because of the common enemy or \"out-group.\" On the other hand, contemporary diversionary theory states that, due to the uncertainty of international relations and the high cost of war, a state is more likely to prey on a weaker state where victory will be more quickly and easily obtained \nOverall, diversionary foreign policy is more likely seen in a major power because they are less constrained by the international community. It is also seen more in democracies where the government needs to be more responsive to public sentiment \nElection cycles have a lot to do with diversionary wars because a war ideally increases the chance that the incumbent administration will remain \n\nIn 1415, King Henry V of England invaded France shortly after his succession to the throne, resulting in a short campaign and a resounding victory at the Battle of Agincourt. This campaign initiated the third phase of the Hundred Years' War, termed the Lancastrian War (\"see\" Hundred Years' War (1415-53)).\n\nSir John Keegan has opined that the primary motivation for Henry's decision to invade France (ostensibly asserting, \"on dubious legal grounds\", a claim to the succession of the French throne), was to solidify his popularity at home and quell unrest from other English nobles, several of whom questioned the legitimacy of his dynasty, since his father, Henry IV, had usurped the throne from Richard II.\n\nOne historical example that demonstrates the conventional acceptance of the effectiveness of a diversionary war is the Russo-Japanese War of 1904. During the months leading up war, Russia experienced numerous workers strikes that lead to internal unsettledness. These strikes coincided with the Russian's negotiations with the Japanese over expansion in Manchuria and Korea. It has been argued that, as a way to distract their population, the Russian Tzar and his ministers decided to goad the Japanese into declaring war, thereby turning Japan into the needed out-group. In fact, Russia's Minister of the Interior, Vyacheslav von Phleve, stated before starting the war:\n“What this country needs is a short victorious war to stem the tide of revolution.”\nClearly, at least some of the Russians in power at the time believed that by a diversionary war, they would be able to distract their population from the domestic troubles that had been haunting Russia. However, there is some evidence that the Tsar himself, and some of his advisors, did not believe that, being viewed as overmatched, Japan would be willing to go to war, and intended to use only the threat of such a conflict as a diversionary tactic.\n\nHowever, the Russo-Japanese War is also in example of how a diversionary war can backfire. Japan soundly defeated Russia in battle. This only aggravated the calls for replacing the Tzar, loosened the Tzar's grip on power, and some say hastened the path toward the Russian Revolution of 1905 and eventually 1917.\n\nIn 1792, the French Government comprised a newly formed National Assembly, which had replaced King Louis XVI. In order to unify its citizens under the new flag and new leadership, the National Assembly began the French Revolutionary Wars. It first declared war on Austria, soon to be joined by Prussia.\n\nOtto von Bismarck utilized diversionary foreign policy often during his quest to unify Germany. These wars distracted the German people from the cultural difference that previously had prevented them from forming a single country. Bismarck used the success of the Franco-Prussian War in a similar fashion, officially establishing a German Empire following the siege of Paris.\n\nMany contemporary examples involve the U.S. because they fit the mold of conditions, a democratic superpower. The examples follow a similar model in which the U.S. must decide whether or not to intervene in an international conflict. Because the U.S. is in a good position to win most military conflicts, it will most likely increase the current administration's chance of reelection if they engage in military conflict.\n\nDuring a period of major social movements and widespread domestic issues within the country, the United States intervened in the conflict between North and South Vietnam under the policy of containment. This failed to unite the country. In fact, many did not see the justification in going to war and started a large anti-war movement, yet Lyndon B. Johnson was reelected while the war was taking place.\n\nAfter Iraq invaded Kuwait, the United States deployed troops to the area and were then backed by the U.N. in \"Operation Desert Storm.\" The conflict was quickly resolved and George Bush's approval ratings soared, although, this did not lead to his reelection.\n\nAfter the attacks on September 11, the U.S. public was devastated and afraid. The economy was also not doing well. Iraq's alleged possession of weapons of mass destruction was presented as immediate threat to the United States. The occupation of Iraq was considered successful and the ongoing conflict led to George W. Bush's reelection. As the war continued and the economy worsened, Bush's approval ratings dropped.\n\nThe National Reorganization Process, the ruling military government of Argentina, started the Falklands War to divert public attention from the country's chronic economic problems and the regime's ongoing human rights violations of the Dirty War.\n\nA 2017 study in the journal \"Security Studies\" found that Russia's seizure of Crimea in early 2014 \"increased national pride among Russians while support for President Vladimir Putin rose dramatically, and they suggest that the two processes were causally linked.\"\n\nChallenges to Realism and Liberalism\n\nThe focus of the Diversionary War theory on individual state actors and their domestic situations as causes for war challenges the basis of major approaches to International Relations. Many of these International Relation theories used by scholars, such as liberalism and realism, focus on states as the main actors in the international system. Technically, this is referred to as using the interstate level of analysis. These scholars attribute the motives and actions of states to the states themselves, instead of the decision makers inside their governments.\n\nOn the other hand, the use of diversionary foreign policy suggests that factors inside of a state, such as domestic disputes and economic lows, have as much of an impact on foreign policy as national interests. As a result, examinations of the use of diversionary wars shift the study of International Relations away from the interstate level of analysis, toward the domestic level of analysis, and even the individual level of analysis In fact, many critics of realism use examples of the use of diversionary wars as a means to discredit the theory. However, modern approaches to realism, such as neoclassical realism, regard domestic politics as a crucial variable in foreign policy. This means the diversionary foreign policy thesis does in fact fit within the neoclassical realist framework. \n\nAs with most theories there are disagreements among experts regarding diversionary wars. Diversionary foreign policy is supported by anecdotal evidence because it is hard to prove a theory in international relations quantitatively. When quantitative or empirical tests are attempted, the results are fairly ambiguous and there is not enough consistency among various findings to establish a definitive conclusion \nThis creates a discrepancy between the theoretical and historical text and the empirical evidence. Therefore, a good amount of criticism arises.\n\nTo begin with, there is an opposing theory that argues a state leader has the most leverage when citizens are content with domestic policy and he has high public approval ratings. It is then assumed that leaders are most likely to engage in international conflicts when the domestic approval is highest. Furthermore, some analysts argue that the entire basis for the argument, the idea that a foreign enemy brings a country together, is not as well founded as it originally seems. This idea relies heavily on sociological studies that focus on the cohesion of small groups. Problems arise when theorists try to apply this to a large group such as a nation state, which is composed of many smaller groups. In fact, there are examples of external conflict leading to more unrest between domestic groups. For example, World War I led to internal problems in Russia, eventually culminating in the Bolshevik Revolution \nSome also argue that a government cannot just incite an international conflict whenever they wish. Although there are always conflicts going on among the international community, not all are compelling enough to justify the use of force to the public and the government may even be accused of overreacting to a situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "1510652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1510652", "title": "Doc Films", "text": "Doc Films\n\nThe Documentary Film Group, better known as Doc Films, is a student-operated film society at the University of Chicago, Illinois, United States. It is—according to a 2007 \"Chicago Tribune\" article—\"the longest-running collegiate film society in the country\" and may be the oldest film society of any kind in the United States. Formed in 1932 as a group of students who gathered to screen documentary films, it officially adopted the name International House Documentary Film Group in 1940. It has since expanded both the genres it screens and the activities it sponsors.\n\nDoc Films began in 1932 as the Documentary Film Group, as the students involved collected money to foot the bill for screening documentaries. In 1940, it officially became the International House Documentary Film Group\", and by 1950, when an auditorium was in use for screening films, was already being hailed as \"probably the oldest U.S. film society\" by \"Film News\".\n\nAs the student organizers realized that they could not sustain the organization on documentaries alone, they expanded to incorporate fictional and experimental films. While the University's classes are in session, Doc Films hosts nightly screenings of films selected from one of these categories at Max Palevsky Cinema, located in Ida Noyes Hall. Doc's screening selection is eclectic. Each quarter of the academic year, students and members of the public propose series of ten films that are somehow related to each other (filmmaker, actor, language, genre, era, theme, etc.). The Programming Committee, which consists of any interested students or members of the public, then chooses among these proposals to schedule a different series for each weeknight (Sunday through Friday). Recent films, normally delayed one quarter from their nationwide release date, are shown on weekends. Occasionally, Doc screens films which have not yet been released to the general public in the area, including \"The Rules of the Game\" and \"Brokeback Mountain\". The goings on of the theater are also completely run by volunteers, being students or interested members of the community. These volunteers collect tickets, present films, and project film.\n\nOther events include showings of student films and conversations with faculty and professionals connected to the film industry. It has hosted a number of film directors, including Alfred Hitchcock, Woody Allen and John Ford.\n\n"}
{"id": "51973578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51973578", "title": "Dunedin Fringe Festival", "text": "Dunedin Fringe Festival\n\nThe Dunedin Fringe Festival, or Dunedin Fringe, is an 11-day fringe theatre festival held each March in Dunedin, New Zealand. The first Dunedin Fringe was in the year 2000.\n\nIn addition to theatrical performances, the festival hosts dancers and live music. In 2016, artists produced 55 shows. The festival is open-access, which means that anyone who registers may perform.\n\nThe venues are in and around the Octagon, the city centre of Dunedin. Among these are Allen Hall at the University of Otago; The Fortune Theatre; the Octagon Athenaeum; and Dog With Two Tails, a nearby café and bar.\n\n"}
{"id": "20462525", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20462525", "title": "FV Ekawat Nava 5", "text": "FV Ekawat Nava 5\n\nFV \"Ekawat Nava 5\" was a hijacked Kiribati-flagged, Thai-owned deep sea fishing trawler that was sunk by of the Indian Navy on 18 November 2008. The trawler sank when a fire broke out on the vessel after \"INS Tabar\" retaliated to being fired upon by pirates on board. All but one crew member of the trawler were believed killed.\n\nThe \"Ekawat Nava 5\" had a crew of 15 Thais and one Cambodian. It was travelling from Oman to Yemen when it was hijacked on 18 November 2008.\n\nOn the evening of 18 November, \"INS Tabar\" was on patrol southwest of Salalah, Oman (near ), when it spotted the hijacked trawler. The vessel was identified by the frigate as a pirate mother ship, as it had two speed boats in tow and men armed with rocket-propelled grenades (RPG) and assault rifles on its deck. The frigate ordered the trawler to be boarded for inspection. Upon being refused and threatened by the pirates, the frigate continued to follow the trawler.\n\nThe official account from the Indian Navy states that the pirates fired at the frigate with an RPG. The frigate fired back in retaliation. Explosions were later heard on board the trawler, possibly due to ammunition or fuel stored on its deck. The trawler sank as a result of the fire.\n\nThe Indian Navy reported that following the fire on board the vessel, it spotted only the two speed boats fleeing from the scene. It pursued the boats and found one abandoned. It lost track of the other boat in the darkness.\n\nAn account of the incident narrated by the Thai representative of its owner, Sirichai Fisheries, based on information provided by a surviving Thai crew member, states that Somali pirates had boarded and just taken control of the trawler when \"INS Tabar\" arrived on the scene. The crew member's account stated that the trawler had not been used as a pirate mother ship.\n\nOf the original crew members of the trawler, the only survivor was picked up by a passing merchant vessel, one was later confirmed dead, while 14 others were reported missing by the owner. The crew of \"INS Tabar\" reported seeing only the two motor boats fleeing from the scene of the incident in the darkness. They did not spot any of the original crew of the trawler. The fate of the remaining crew was unknown.\n\nAn account of the incident from the US Department of State, may have originally stated that the Indian Navy captured some of the pirates. This was however not confirmed by the Indian Navy.\n"}
{"id": "53981348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53981348", "title": "Game2: Winter", "text": "Game2: Winter\n\nGame2: Winter () was a social experiment and media stunt promoted as a Russian survival reality television program produced by Novosibirsk entrepreneur Yevgeny Pyatkovsky that was set to premiere in . The show caught the attention of the press when the show stated that its rules would allow crimes such as rape and murder which sparked outrage online. The show has been compared to a \"real-life \"Hunger Games\"\".\n\nThe project was revealed to be a social experiment used for marketing research purposes on .\n\n30 participants, half men and half women, were expected to compete on a remote Siberian island in the Ob River for a 100 million rouble ($1.7 million) prize on a nine month survival mission.\nAll contestants were said to have signed death waivers and agreed not to hold the organisers accountable for criminal activity.\nHowever, Snopes found that 'Despite multiple misleading headlines, the waiver described by news outlets explicitly stated that contestants on the show would be obliged to \"obey the laws of the Russian Federation\".'\n\nThe production's home base was in Western Siberia, with the Ob River area proposed as the main filming location.\n\nOn , the production team posted a casting call via their VK account. Registration was closed on with over 340 applications.\n\nAs of , 120 people had qualified for runoff voting. The 30 finalists were set to be revealed that .\n\nAccording to \"The Guardian\", \"five countries have already expressed the desire to broadcast [the show] for their audiences\".\n\n"}
{"id": "380245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380245", "title": "Hamburg State Opera", "text": "Hamburg State Opera\n\nThe Hamburg State Opera (in German: Hamburgische Staatsoper) is a Germany opera company based in Hamburg. Its theatre is located near the square of Gänsemarkt. Since 2015, the current \"Intendant\" of the company is Georges Delnon, and the current \"Generalmusikdirektor\" of the company is Kent Nagano.\n\nOpera in Hamburg dates to 2 January 1678 when the Oper am Gänsemarkt was inaugurated with a performance of a biblical Singspiel by Johann Theile. It was not a court theatre but the first public opera house in Germany established by the art-loving citizens of Hamburg, a prosperous member of the Hanseatic League.\n\nThe Hamburg \"Bürgeroper\" resisted the dominance of the Italianate style and rapidly became the leading musical center of the German Baroque. In 1703, George Friedrich Handel was engaged as violinist and harpsichordist and performances of his operas were not long in appearing. In 1705, Hamburg gave the world première of his opera \"Nero\".\n\nIn 1721, Georg Philipp Telemann, a central figure of the German Baroque, joined the Hamburg Opera, and in subsequent years Christoph Willibald Gluck, Johann Adolph Hasse and various Italian companies were among the guests.\n\nTo replace the aging wooden structure, the first stone was laid on 18 May 1826 for the \"Stadt-Theater\" on the present-day site of the Hamburg State Opera. The new theater, with seating for 2,800 guest, was inaugurated less than a year later with Beethoven's incidental music to \"Egmont\".\n\nIn 1873, both the exterior and interior of the structure were renovated in the reigning \"Gründerzeit\" style of the time, and again in 1891, when electric lighting was introduced.\n\nUnder the direction of Bernhard Pollini, the house mounted its first complete \"Ring Cycle\" in 1879. In 1883, the year of Wagner's death, a cycle comprising nine of his operas commenced. The musical directors Hans von Bülow (from 1887 to 1890) and Gustav Mahler (from 1891 to 1897) also contributed to the fame of the opera house.\n\nIn the beginning of the 20th century, opera was an important part of the theatre's repertoire; among the 321 performances during the 1907–08 season, 282 were performances of opera. The Stadt-Theater performed not only established repertoire but also new works, such as Paul Hindemith's \"Sancta Susanna\", Igor Stravinsky's \"The Soldier's Tale\", Ernst Krenek's \"Jonny spielt auf\", and Leoš Janáček's \"Jenůfa\". Ferruccio Busoni's \"Die Brautwahl\" (1912) and Erich Wolfgang Korngold's \"Die tote Stadt\" (1920) both had their world premieres in Hamburg. In the 1930s, after Hitler came to power, the opera house was renamed \"Hamburgische Staatsoper\".\n\nOn the night of 2 August 1943, both the auditorium and its neighbouring buildings were destroyed during air raids by fire-bombing; a low-flying airplane dropped several petrol and phosphorus containers on to the middle of the roof of the auditorium, turning it into a conflagration.\nThe current Staatsoper opened on 15 October 1955 with Mozart's \"Die Zauberflöte\". Hamburg continued to devote itself to new works, such as Hans Werner Henze's \"The Prince of Homburg\" (1960), Stravinsky's \"The Flood\" (1963), Gian Carlo Menotti's \"Help, Help, the Globolinks!\" (1968), and Mauricio Kagel's \"Staatstheater\" (1971).\n\nIn 1967, under the direction of Joachim Hess, the Hamburg State Opera became the first company to broadcasts its operas in color on television, beginning with \"Die Hochzeit des Figaro\" (a German translation of \"Le Nozze di Figaro\"). Ten of these television productions have been released on DVD by ArtHaus Musik as \"Cult Opera of the 1970s\", as well as separately. All of these were performed in German regardless of the original language (six were written in German, one in French, two in English, and one in Italian).\n\nMore recently, Hamburg gave the world premières of Wolfgang Rihm's \"Die Eroberung von Mexico\" (1992) and Helmut Lachenmann's \"Das Mädchen mit den Schwefelhölzern\" (1997), for which it received much international acclaim. The company has won the \"Opera House of the Year\" award by the German magazine Opernwelt in 1997 and in 2005.\n\nRecent General Music Directors (GMD) have included Ingo Metzmacher and Simone Young. Young was the first female GMD in the company's history, serving from 2005 to 2015. Kent Nagano became GMD as of the 2015-2016 season, with an initial contract of 5 seasons. In October 2017, the company announced the extension of Nagano's Hamburg contract through 2025.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25745597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25745597", "title": "Herbie (tree)", "text": "Herbie (tree)\n\n\"Herbie\" was an American elm tree located in Yarmouth, Maine. It stood by present-day East Main Street (State Route 88), at its intersection with Yankee Drive, between 1793 and January 19, 2010. At 110 feet in height, it was, between 1997 and the date of its felling, the oldest and largest of its kind in New England. The tree, which partially stood in the front yard of a private residence, also had a 20-foot circumference and (until mid-2008) a 93-foot crown spread. It was so-named when children witnessed some of its diseased limbs being sawn off. \"What are you going to do to Herbie? Don't cut Herbie!\" they cried, and the name stuck.\n\nA plaque on its trunk stated:\n\nOn May 1, 1834, the town gave Herbie some company by planting rows of elm trees along East Elm Street. From 1957 onward, however, most of them succumbed to Dutch elm disease. As of 2003, only twenty of Yarmouth's original 739 elms had survived.\n\nAfter battling fifteen bouts of Dutch elm disease, in 2007, stripes appeared under the tree's bark, indicating a worsening condition. In August 2009, it was revealed that Herbie would be cut down on January 18 and 19, 2010, at a cost of $20,000. In October 2009, the plaque was removed from its trunk and replaced with a laminated version, and before the end of the year, \"The Herbie Project\" fund-raising campaign was set up to raise money to care for and plant other trees in the town. After the tree's demise, local woodworkers used its wood to make products which will be auctioned off to raise money for the trust.\n\nA snowstorm during the night of January 17–18, 2010 postponed the removal. The tree was removed on January 19. A preliminary count of the tree's rings, done on site, revealed its age to be at least 212 years. On February 4, however, the official count showed it to be 217. The stump was removed over the weekend of May 29 and 30.\n\nA section of the trunk's base was on show at the 2010 Yarmouth Clam Festival. It is now on permanent display outside Yarmouth town hall, on Cleaves Street, a project of the local Eagle Scouts.\n\nFrank Knight, the town's former \"tree warden\", died at the age of 103 on May 14, 2012. Knight's casket was made, in secret, out of Herbie's wood. Succeeded by Deb Hopkins in 2006, Knight cared for the tree for half of his life, having accepted the role in 1956. Knight's efforts were recognized by the town: the athletic fields at North Yarmouth Academy bear his name, as does a forest behind the town's community garden; a tree in front of Yarmouth's town hall was planted in his honor; and, in 1983, he was the fourth recipient of the town's Latchstring Award.\n\nIn 2017, Portland's Liquid Riot Bottling Company released a beer in tribute to Herbie.\n\n"}
{"id": "8343572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8343572", "title": "Hulwan", "text": "Hulwan\n\nHulwan () was an ancient town on the Zagros Mountains in western Iran, located on the entrance of the Paytak Pass, nowadays identified with the village of Sarpol-e Zahab.\n\nLater Arab tradition, as recorded by al-Tabari, considered the town a Sasanian foundation dating to Kavadh I (reigned 488–496, 498–531), but it is far more ancient: it was known since Assyrian times as Khalmanu, when it lay on the border between Babylonia and Media. To the Seleucids, it was known as Chala () and was the capital of the district of Chalonitis (Χαλωνῖτις). According to Diodorus Siculus, the name derives from the settlement of Greek captives from Boeotia by Xerxes, who founded the town of Celonae or Kelonai (Κέλωναι).\n\nUnder the Sasanian Empire, the district of Hulwan was called [Khusraw] Shad Peroz (\"the joy of Khusraw the victorious\"), and the city itself probably Peroz Kavad (\"victorious Kavad\"). After the Muslim conquest of Persia, the words were Arabicized and became known as: [Khusraw] Shadh Firuz and Firuz Qubadh. Although like the rest of Media it belonged to the quarter (\"kust\") of the North, under Khosrau II (r. 590–628) it was included in the quarter of the West, along with Mesopotamia, as the Sasanian rulers began to use the Zagros Mountains as a summer retreat away from the capital of Ctesiphon on the Mesopotamian plain. \n\nAfter the Battle of Qadisiyya in 636, the last Sasanian ruler, Yazdegerd III (r. 632–651), took refuge in Hulwan for a while during his flight from Ctesiphon. After another heavy defeat at the Battle of Jalula in 637, Yazdegerd left Hulwan for the eastern provinces of his realm, and the town fell into the hands of the pursuing Arabs under Jarir ibn Abdallah Bajali in 640. In the early 640s, the town was of strategic importance as a frontier post between the Mesopotamian lowlands and the still Sasanian-controlled Iranian plateau, and was garrisoned by troops, including Persian defectors (the \"Khamra\"), who were settled there under the Rashidun caliphs. \n\nIn the early Islamic period, until the 10th century, the town is described \"as a flourishing town in a fertile district producing much fruit\" (L. Lockhart). It was situated on the Khurasan Road, and was the first town of the Jibal province to be met travelling eastwards from Baghdad. Nevertheless, as in Sasanian times, it was fiscally tied to the Mesopotamian lowlands (the \"Sawad\"). Under Mu'awiya I (r. 661–680) it became the capital of western Jibal (\"Mah al-Kufa\"). \n\nAccording to the 10th-century traveller Ibn Hawqal, the town was half the size of Dinavar, and its houses were built of both stone and bricks. Though the climate was hot, dates, pomegranates and figs grew abundantly. According to the 10th-century \"hudud al-'alam\" the town's figs were dried and widely exported, while al-Muqaddasi adds that the town was surrounded by a wall with eight gates, and included, alongside a mosque, a Jewish synagogue.\n\nThe town was also a metropolitan province of the Church of the East between the 8th and 12th centuries.\n\nAround the turn of the 11th century, the town was governed by the semi-independent Annazid dynasty, until they were expelled by the Kakuyids. It was taken and burned by the Seljuq Turks in 1046, while an earthquake in 1049 completed the town's destruction. Although rebuilt, it never recovered its former prosperity, and is now the small village of Sarpol-e Zahab.\n\n"}
{"id": "21819959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21819959", "title": "Imtiaz Ahmed (brigadier)", "text": "Imtiaz Ahmed (brigadier)\n\nBrigadier Imtiaz Ahmed (Urdu: امتياز احمد; b. 1935), , also known as Imtiaz Billa, is a retired engineering officer in the Pakistan Army Corps of Engineers and a former spy who served as the of the Intelligence Bureau from 1990–93.\n\nAfter a brief career in the combat engineering formations in the Pakistan Army, his career mostly spent in the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI), where he was responsible for running internal security before serving in the Intelligence Bureau. In 1989, his military commission was discharge when he implicated in a political scandal in trying to sabotage then-Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto's administration.\n\nIn 2001, Ahmad was convicted by the anti-corruption court when National Accountability Bureau (NAB) prosecuted him on monetary embazzlement. Ahmad is a controversial figure in the country, having been accused of involved in the custodial death of Communist leader Nazeer Abbasi in 1987, and later was accused of having forthknowledge on plane crash that resulted in death of President Zia-ul-Haq and his dignitaries in 1988.\n\nImtiaz Ahmed was born in Gujranwala, Punjab in India on 4 June 1935, according to the Indian author, P.C. Joshi. After his matriculation, he joined the Pakistan Army and entered in the Pakistan Military Academy in Kakul, and decided to attend the Military College of Engineering in Risalpur in Khyber-Pakhtunkhwa. He graduated with B.S. in civil engineering, and earned commission as 2nd-Lt. in the Pakistan Army Corps of Engineers in 1960.\n\nHis career is mostly spent in the Corps of Engineers, and served on the combat engineering formations during the second war with India in 1965 and third war with India in 1971. After 1971, Ahmed was directed to attend the staff course at the Command and Staff College in Quetta.\n\nDue to his cunningness and the greenish-eye feline colors, Ahmed was famously known by his codename in the ISI as \"\"billa\"\" (the male cat).\n\nIn late 1970s, he joined the Inter-Services Intelligence (ISI) as an security analyst and remained associated with the country's intelligence community for many years. In 1979, Major Ahmed was posted on a security detail assignment on the Karachi Nuclear Power Plant (KANUPP), involved in running the background checks and providing covert security to the technicians working on the power plant. In 1979, he became aware of an American CIA mole working as an engineer who was trying to seek security details on the commercial nuclear power plant for the sabotage purposes.\n\nAfter thoroughly running the background checks, Ahmad identified the suspected mole and eventually led a sting operation that successfully resulted in an arrest and conviction of a local Pakistani CIA agent, declaration of a few undercover CIA agents, and U.S. diplomats at the U.S. Consulate General in Karachi as \"personae non gratae\" and their return to the United States.\n\nThe details and veracity of such assignment has been criticized in the editorial written in \"Dawn\", whose investigations identified the engineer who was working for the Karachi Electric (KE) electric power transmission and had been a prominent member of the Pakistan Peoples Party, not working for the nuclear power plant as claimed by Brig. Ahmed.\n\nIn 1980, Lt-Col. Ahmed joined the Joint Counterintelligence Bureau (JCIB), mainly working in counterintelligence management and overseeing the anti-communist operations in Sindh.\n\nIn 1981, he began investigating the al-Zulikar, led by Murtaza Bhutto, after the hijacking of the PIA Flight–326, eventually expanding the spying on the leaders of the Movement for Restoration of Democracy led by Benazir Bhutto in 1982–85.\n\nFrom 1983–88, he also monitored the anticommunist judicial probe that implicated the journalists Jam Saqi and Sohail Sangi, and harboured doubts of foreign funding of Movement for the Restoration of Democracy (MRD) alliance led by Benazir Bhutto. Over this judicial probe, the Communist Party of Pakistan politicians have leveled accusations on Ahmed's CI bureau in Sindh of \"wrongfully\" investigating on the Nazeer Abbasi's political ambitions whose death resulted in the custody of the Sindh Police.\n\nIn 1986–87, Col. Ahmed was appointed as the Director-General Intelligence Bureau (DGIB) before being posted to take over the directorship of the JCIB in Islamabad when Lt-Gen. Akhtar Abdur Rahman became .\n\nIn 1988, Brig. Ahmed was appointed as director of Political Wing of the ISI in Islamabad, managing the country's internal security and tried uniting the conservative mass against the left-oriented Pakistan Peoples Party. Due to the complaints of Naseerullah Babar, Security Adviser at the Interior Ministry, Brig. Ahmad was rotated back to the Corps of Engineers on a construction engineering assignment in Risalpur but his skills on intelligence management and extraction was valuable, eventually found a way to secretly serve in the Intelligence Bureau.\n\nIn 1989, Brig. Imtiaz, in secret conversation with Major Amir Khan, talked on sponsoring the (MP) belonging to the Pakistan Peoples Party to bring about a vote of no-confidence movement to remove Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto in order to bring PML(N) led by its then-President Fida Mohammad and his chief secretary Nawaz Sharif in the administration. The plan backfired when the conversation was apparently videotaped by the IB and ISI, and released to the public, which eventually led to the General Mirza Aslam Beg, then-army chief, to allow the Military Intelligence (MI) to conduct the inquiry in such manner.\n\nBoth Brig. Ahmed and Major Amir Khan were discharged from their military commission in 1989, and the inquiry remains classified since it is still unclear who the real culprit behind the plot was or was it under the instructions of the DG ISI Shamsur Rahman Kallu.\n\nAfter his discharge in 1989, he was reportedly employed by then-Chief Minister of Punjab, Nawaz Sharif, as his Additional Chief Secretary in the Government of Punjab, which he served until 1990.\n\nWhen the general elections were held in 1990, which saw Nawaz Sharif forming the first government, Imtiaz Ahmed was re-appointed as the of the Intelligence Bureau (DGIB). In 1992, he aided in launching of the armed operation to cleanse the Karachi of \"anti-social\" elements, and ultimately targeting the MQM once the conspiracy to partitioned Karachi from Sindh was unearthed.\n\nAfter the resignations of the Prime Minister Sharif and President Ghulam Ishaq Khan, Ahmed resigned from the directorship of the Intelligence Bureau, which he termed his resignation as \"on principle\" on 19 April 1992.\n\nIn 1997, Ahmed was appointed by Prime Minister Sharif as Director-General of the FIA but the appointment did not come through. On October 1997, Ahmed took over the chairmanship of the NTM, appointed by the NTM's board of directors amid controversy when NTM's chairman Faisal Sher Jan was fired from the channel. He chaired the channel until 1999.\n\nThe Pakistan Peoples Party (PPP) led by Benazir Bhutto secured the plurality after the general elections held in 1993, and Prime Minister Benazir Bhutto opened the investigation and inquiry when authorizing the arrest warrants of Imtiaz Ahmed on charges of indulging in illegal activities in 1994. The case against him was marked on the political motives, and he was later released due to lack of evidences.\n\nAfter the turnover of the government in 1999 by General Pervez Musharraf, the inquiries led by the National Accountability Bureau (NAB) indicted him on large-scale corruption and misappropriation of funds while serving as the Director of IB, eventually found him guilty in 2001. He was sentenced to sentenced to eight years imprisonment for corruption., released in 2008–09\n\nOn 21 September 2010, Imtiaz Ahmed was again arrested along with Adnan Khawaja, the former chairman of the OGDC, and was shifted to Adiala Prison where they were earlier arrested from the courtroom. In a Supreme Court bench headed by then-Chief Justice Iftikhar Muhammad Chaudhry who heard the NRO implementation case, Ahmed was arrested from the court on orders by Supreme Court during the hearing of a case relating the implementation of National Reconciliation Ordinance (NRO).\n\nOn 25 September 2010, the Supreme Court eventually released him as he already had served him time. His release was given on grounds of his age and medical condition, which he reportedly suffering from the coronary artery disease.\n\nIn 2009, Humayun Akhtar Khan, the former Commerce minister and son of Gen. Akhtar Abdur Rahman, had leveled accusations when he reportedly marked: \"Brig. Imtiaz is the man who encouraged my father to board on the C-130 aircraft which later met an accident. I ask Brig. Imtiaz to explain what led him to play a role in my father's killing\", Humayun Akhtar maintained.\n\nAfter his release in 2009, Ahmed became an intelligence commentator and gave several television interviews on intelligence management and revealed that the Jinnahpur conspiracy was fabricated while giving more information on the secret funding of political parties against the Pakistan Peoples Party.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14424832", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14424832", "title": "Kiev uprising of 1068", "text": "Kiev uprising of 1068\n\nThe Kiev uprising of 1068 was a revolt against Grand Prince Iziaslav Yaroslavich of Kiev in the aftermath of a Kievan Rus’ defeat at the hands of the Cumans at Battle of the Alta River near the city of Pereiaslavl, southeast of Kiev.\n\nThe Polovtsy raid of 1068–1069 was only the tribe's second major raid into Rus’ (they had negotiated a treaty with Prince Vsevolod Yaroslavich of Pereislavl’ (the father of Vladimir Monomach) in 1055, but the tribesmen broke the treaty and attacked Kievan Rus’ six years later, defeating Vsevolod in battle). In 1068-1069, the Polovtsy penetrated the earthwork defensive lines built up over the years by Prince Vladimir Svyatoslavich (r. ca. 980–1015) and his son, Yaroslav the Wise (r. 1019–1054). They were met by a combined army of Yaroslav’s sons: Grand Prince Iziaslav of Kiev and his brothers, Princes Sviatoslav Yaroslavich of Chernigov, and Vsevolod, which was defeated and fled back to Kiev in disarray.\n\nThe Polovsty continued to raid throughout the area, prompting the Kievans to call on the grand prince to rearm them so they could march out and meet the threat. Iziaslav refused, prompting the rebellion. \"The Tale of Bygone Years\" (in Russian \"Povest Vremennikh Let\"), a part of \"The Lavrentian Chronicle\", relates what happened next:\n\nThe Kievans who had escaped to their native city held a veche (literally \"created a veche\") on the marketplace and sent the following communication to the Prince [Iziaslav]: 'The Polovtsy have spread over the country. O Prince, give us arms and horses, that we may offer them combat once more.' Iziaslav, however, paid no heed to this request. Then the people began to murmur against his general (voevoda) Konstantin. From the place of the assembly, they mounted the hill and arrived before the house of Konstantin.\n\nThe Kievan mob ransacked Konstantin's house, apparently blaming him for the defeat. They then drove out Iziaslav and freed Prince Vseslav of Polotsk, who had been imprisoned earlier by Iziaslav, Vsevolod, and Sviatoslav, and placed him on the Kievan throne in hopes that he could stop the Polovtsy. Iziaslav, for his part, fled to Boleslaw II of Poland, who supported him with arms with which he returned to Kiev the following May (1069) and took back the throne.\n\nIn Iziaslav's absence, Prince Sviatoslav managed to defeat a much larger Polovetsian army on November 1, 1068 and stem the tide of Polovetsian raids. A small skirmish in 1071 was the only disturbance by the Polovtsy for the next two decades. Thus, while the Battle of Alta River was a disgrace for Kievan Rus' and led briefly to the ouster of the grand prince, Sviatoslav's victory the following year relieved the Polovtsy threat to Kiev and Chernigov for a considerable period and allowed Iziaslav the breathing space necessary to reclaim the throne.\n\nThe uprising has been seen by a number of Russian and Soviet historians as proof of the power of the veche, which was rather more important in the northwestern Rus' cities of Novgorod the Great and Pskov (and at a later period) and less important in the south, but showed itself to be important here in displacing a Kievan grand prince and bringing in another one. The \"veche\", usually seen as a public assembly and often quite institutionalized in the literature, would, however, appear in this instance to be little more than an angry mob which sacked the \"voevoda's\" house and drove out the prince. It does not appear to be anything like a parliament or legislature as it has often been portrayed in the traditional historiography.\n"}
{"id": "21895990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21895990", "title": "Lead-up to the Iraq War", "text": "Lead-up to the Iraq War\n\nThe lead-up to the Iraq War (i.e., the 2003 invasion of Iraq and subsequent hostilities) began with United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 and subsequent UN weapons inspectors inside Iraq. This period also saw low-level hostilities between Iraq and the United States-led coalition from 1991-2003.\n\nFollowing the 1991 Gulf War, as part of the ceasefire agreement, the United Nations Security Council Resolution 687 mandated that Iraqi chemical, biological, nuclear, and long range missile programs be halted and all such weapons destroyed under United Nations Special Commission control. The UN weapons inspectors inside Iraq were able to verify the destruction of a large amount of WMD-material, but substantial issues remained unresolved in 1998 when the inspectors left Iraq due to then current UNSCOM head Richard Butler's belief that U.S. and UK military action was imminent. Shortly after the inspectors withdrew, the U.S. and UK launched a four-day bombing campaign in Iraq. Also, during this period the U.S. Congress and U.S. President Bill Clinton issued a resolution calling for regime change in Iraq. \nIn addition to the UN inspections, the U.S. and UK (along with France until 1998) engaged in a low-level conflict with Iraq by enforcing non-UN mandated northern and southern Iraqi no-fly zones. These were known as Operation Provide Comfort and Operation Provide Comfort II then followed by Operation Northern Watch in Iraqi Kurdistan in the north and Operation Southern Watch in the south, and were seen by the Iraqi government as an infringement of Iraq's sovereignty. These overflights intensified one year before the Iraq war began when the U.S. initiated Operation Southern Focus in order to disrupt the military command structure in Iraq before the invasion.\n\nFollowing the 1991 Gulf War, U.S. President George H. W. Bush signed a presidential finding directing the Central Intelligence Agency to create conditions for Hussein's removal from power in May 1991. Coordinating anti-Saddam groups was an important element of this strategy and the Iraqi National Congress (INC), led by Ahmed Chalabi, was the main group tasked with this purpose. The name INC was reportedly coined by public relations expert John Rendon (of the Rendon Group agency) and the group received millions in covert funding in the 1990s, and then about $8 million a year in overt funding after the passage of the Iraq Liberation Act in 1998. Another opposition group was the Iraqi National Accord which continues to have influence in the current Iraqi government through its leader Ayad Allawi.\n\nIn late April 1993, the United States asserted that Saddam Hussein had attempted to have former President George H. W. Bush assassinated during a visit to Kuwait on April 14–16. On June 26, as per order of then-President Clinton, U.S. warships stationed in the Persian Gulf and the Red Sea launched a cruise missile attack at the Iraqi Intelligence Service building in downtown Baghdad in response to Iraq's plot to assassinate former President George H. W. Bush. Clinton briefed President-elect George W. Bush in December 2000, expressing his regret that people he regarded as the world's two most dangerous individuals, including Hussein, were still alive and free. He warned Bush that Hussein will \"cause you a world of problems.\"\n\nBush's Treasury Secretary Paul O'Neill said that Bush's first two National Security Council meetings included a discussion of invading Iraq. He was given briefing materials entitled \"Plan for post-Saddam Iraq,\" which envisioned peacekeeping troops, war crimes tribunals, and divvying up Iraq's oil wealth. A Pentagon document dated March 5, 2001 was titled \"Foreign Suitors for Iraqi Oilfield contracts,\" and included a map of potential areas for exploration.\n\nIn April 2002, Colin Powell wrote Bush to inform him that Tony Blair was ready to support the invasion of Iraq, and would present further advice regarding \"strategic, tactical, and public affairs lines\" during Blair's forthcoming visit to Crawford.\n\nThe CIA's Special Activities Division (SAD) teams were the first U.S. forces to enter Iraq in July 2002, prior to the U.S. Invasion. Once on the ground, they prepared for the subsequent arrival of U.S. Army Special Forces to organize the Kurdish Peshmerga. This joint team (called the Northern Iraq Liaison Element (NILE)) combined to defeat Ansar al-Islam, an ally of Al Qaeda, in the North East corner of Iraq. This battle was for control of a territory that was occupied by Ansar al-Islam and was executed prior to the invasion. It was carried out by Paramilitary Operations Officers from SAD and the Army's 10th Special Forces Group. This battle was a significant defeat of a key terrorist organization and the uncovering of a chemical weapons facility at Sargat. Sargat was the only facility of its type discovered in the Iraq war.\n\nSAD teams also conducted missions behind enemy lines to identify leadership targets. These missions led to the initial strikes against Saddam Hussein and his Generals. Although the strike against Saddam was unsuccessful in killing him, it was successful in effectively ending his ability to command and control his forces. Other strikes against his Generals were successful and significantly degraded the command's ability to react to, and maneuver against the U.S. led invasion force. SAD operations officers were also successful in convincing key Iraqi Army officers into surrendering their units once the fighting started.\n\nTurkey refused to allow the U.S. Army entry into Northern Iraq. Therefore, joint SAD and Army Special forces teams and the Kurdish Peshmerga were the entire Northern force against Saddam. They managed to keep Saddam's Army in place rather than moving the northern army to contest the U.S. led coalition force coming from the south. The efforts of the Kurds, SAD and 10th Special Forces Group with the Kurds likely saved the lives of many US and coalition forces during and after the invasion. As described by Mike Tucker and Charles Faddis in their book entitled, \"Operation Hotel California: The Clandestine War Inside Iraq\", four of these CIA officers were awarded the Intelligence Star for their heroic actions.\n\nSen. Bob Graham chaired the Senate Select Committee on Intelligence in 2002, when the Congress voted on the Iraq War Resolution. He first became aware of the significance of Iraq in February 2002, when Gen. Tommy Franks told him the Bush administration had made the decision to begin to de-emphasize Afghanistan in order to get ready for Iraq. In September, the Senate Intelligence Committee met with George Tenet, Director of the CIA, and Graham requested a National Intelligence Estimate (NIE) on Iraq. Tenet responded by saying \"We've never done a National Intelligence Estimate on Iraq, including its weapons of mass destruction.\" and resisted the request to provide one to Congress. Graham insisted \"This is the most important decision that we as members of Congress and that the people of America are likely to make in the foreseeable future. We want to have the best understanding of what it is we're about to get involved with.\" Tenet refused to do a report on the military or occupation phase, but reluctantly agreed to do a NIE on the weapons of mass destruction. Graham described the Senate Intelligence Committee meeting with Tenet as \"the turning point in our attitude towards Tenet and our understanding of how the intelligence community has become so submissive to the desires of the administration. The administration wasn't using intelligence to inform their judgment; they were using intelligence as part of a public relations campaign to justify their judgment.\"\n\nCongress voted to support the war based on the NIE Tenet provided in October 2002. However, the bipartisan \"Senate Intelligence Committee Report on Prewar Intelligence\" released on July 7, 2004, concluded that the key findings in the 2002 NIE either overstated, or were not supported by, the actual intelligence. The Senate report also found the US Intelligence Community to suffer from a \"broken corporate culture and poor management\" that resulted in a NIE that was completely wrong in almost every respect.\n\n"}
{"id": "562651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=562651", "title": "List of corporate collapses and scandals", "text": "List of corporate collapses and scandals\n\nA corporate collapse typically involves the insolvency or bankruptcy of a major business enterprise. A corporate scandal involves alleged or actual unethical behavior by people acting within or on behalf of a corporation. Many recent corporate collapses and scandals have involved false or inappropriate accounting of some sort (see list at accounting scandals).\nThe following list of corporations involved major collapses, through the risk of job losses or size of the business, and meant entering into insolvency or bankruptcy, or being nationalised or requiring a non-market loan by a government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13358515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13358515", "title": "Live Earth concert, Rome", "text": "Live Earth concert, Rome\n\nThe \"Heptavium\" concert, representing also the Live Earth concert in Rome, took place on 7 July 2007 at the Basilica of St. John Lateran, the Cathedral of Rome and subject to the extraterritorial jurisdiction of the Holy See. It was part of a series of high-profile concerts organised by Al Gore and Kevin Wall, which took place across the globe to raise awareness about climate change. Jonas Lauren Norr of Ethos Investments was responsible for the collaboration of Live Earth with the Heptavium concert as a producer of the event. The concert was masterminded and written by composer and researcher of philosophy Michael I.D'Alessandra. The concert was officially backed by the Vatican, thus being the Catholic Church's autonomous presence at the Live Earth events.\n\nThe Heptavium/Live Earth event was inaugurated by Paul Cardinal Poupard, who explained the scope and meaning of the evening, a prelude to the \"Cathedralia\" Project, an endeavour of original sacred music between Rome and the USA, conceived and composed by D'Alessandra and planned for the next decade. A reading of a page from St. Augustine's \"City of God\" followed, mentioning the sacred aspect of earthly nature, concluded by an intervention on behalf of the Live Earth event by acclaimed film producer Lawrence Bender.\n\nThe concert was performed exclusively in two different locations of the Cathedral of Rome: before its Holy Door, and inside the Cathedral, in the central nave. During the first part of the concert, various works for string quartet and grand piano composed by M° Michael D'Alessandra were performed by the Bernini Quartet, a string ensemble of virtuosos from Rome, and D'Alessandra, a piano virtuoso and organist himself; the performance was shown inside the Church through HD screens placed aside the Church's canopy. \n\nThe second part of the concert, consisting of symphonic and choral sacred music, saw the deployment of the largest orchestra the Church had ever experienced. Performing were the London Oratory School Schola, Michael D'Alessandra, The Rome Philharmonic Orchestra and M°Cristiano Serino. The choir and orchestra performed \"Vexilla Regis\", a variation on Franz Liszt's \"Via Crucis\" conducted by Michael D'Alessandra, connected to \"Septem postrema verba\", a concerto for choir, orchestra and cello solo written by M°Cristiano Serino conducting it. The last seven words of Jesus Christ on the cross were utilised for the libretto, culminating towards the core of the concert: D'Alessandra's \"Missa Sylvestri II\", a funeral Mass, beginning with an eerie \"Kyrie Eleison\" progressing to a fast-paced \"Sanctus\", through a solemn \"Benedictus\", reminiscent of German baroque progressions and Russian Orthodox melodies, and concluding with an elegiac \"Agnus Dei\". This funeral Mass, regarded as a masterpiece of new sacred music in Vatican cultural circles, was written for the 1000th anniversary of Pope Sylvester II's death (May 12, 1003) and premiered in the year 2003 in the very Cathedral of Rome, where Sylvester II is buried. The last performance, \"Gloria\", a piece endowed with Wagnerian traits uttered a finale in which, D'Alessandra conducting, 140 musicians and singers reached the acme of their performance.\n\nThis ceremonial concert coincided with the issuance of the motu proprio, \"Summorum Pontificum\" relating to the traditional Latin Mass, also on 7 July 2007.\n\nThe concert was broadcast either in full or in part by many television and radio networks. The concert was broadcast in Italy, America, Australia and New Zealand, and a short clip showing D'Alessandra's funeral \"Kyrie Eleison\" was also shown on BBC One in the UK, along with Live Earth's world feed, thus honouring the British choir performing in Rome, in remembrance of the victims fallen on the terrorist attacks in London on 7 July 2005, a tragedy mentioned also during Card. Poupard's introduction to the event. Articles about the concert also appeared in The Tablet and The Catholic Herald. The fact that a performance of original sacred music of such elevated standards connected the \"Mother of all Churches\" (as the Cathedral of Rome is also called) to an event featuring iconic rock acts like Metallica or The Police, denotes a surprising dynamism of certain Vatican departments, although remaining conservative, thus representing a promising breakthrough for the dialogue of a sensible Roman Catholic world with secularized modernity, and overall, with contemporary global culture.\n\n \"Heptavium\" (literally meaning 'place where seven ways meet') is a Latin neologism conceived by D'Alessandra, who, beside being a musician has an extensive background in Vatican Universities and Institutes as a researcher. This new word aims at condensing in one concept the Arts of the \"trivium\" (grammar, logic, rhetoric) and \"quadrivium\" (mathematics, geometry, astronomy, music), the body known as the seven Liberal Arts, as taught in the Cathedral schools and Universities during the Middle Ages.\nThe city of Rome has always been connected to the number seven since its very foundation: built on seven hills, ruled by seven kings, and furthermore enriched by seven churches and by the seven sacraments, the rhythm of Rome and its symbolism has been and is being governed numerically by the number 7 during its pagan imperial rule and since it became the cradle of Christianity. Therefore, \"Heptavium\" may become an esoteric \"nomen secretum\", a secret name for Rome itself, literally the \"City where seven ways meet\".\n\nThese concepts and prerogatives were mentioned during Card. Paul Poupard's introductory speech to the concert, linking the symbolical contents directly to the music performed. Moreover, the \"Heptavium\" concert was performed both outside and inside the Church, and with two different repertoires and styles of music, profane and sacred-symphonic, to stress the transition from the pagan sphere to the one divinely inspired that the city of Rome has been experiencing for over two millennia.\n\nHowever, the reason why the date 7 July 2007 was chosen by Pope Benedict XVI as the date for the release of a Motu Proprio related to the traditional Latin Mass remains uncertain, as the date July 7 and even more so, the number 777, both seem to reflect the spirit of gnostic and esoteric numerology more than the Spirit of the Latin Mass canonized by St. Pius V. Undeniably, this number holds its great significance in the Western symbolic tradition; nevertheless, the importance of a Motu Proprio aiming at reintroducing liturgical functions in Latin for the Church of Rome, weighed on D'Alessandra's decision to utilise exclusively Latin for the \"Heptavium\" concert's libretto, stressing \"Heptavium\"'s alignment to the symbolical orientation of the current pontificate. This original liturgical music in Latin and a Latin neologism with a concept related to Rome paid homage to the city's Cathedral and seat of the Papal authority, ranking even higher than Saint Peter's Basilica at the Vatican and any other Roman Catholic church in the world in terms of canonical primacy.\n\nAs a resultance of these two occurrences combined, namely: I) the Heptavium/Live Earth concert, II) the promulgation of \"Summorum Pontificum\", 7 July 2007 may from now on be defined as the \"Heptavium Dies\", the Heptavium Day for the Roman Catholic Church and its future approach to the city of Rome in the contemporary artistic scenario.\n\n1 http://www.zenit.org/english/visualizza.phtml?sid=107874\n\n2 http://radiovaticana.org/ung/articolo.asp?c=144233\n\n3 https://web.archive.org/web/20091015212228/http://www.catholicherald.co.uk/features/f0000279.shtml\n\n"}
{"id": "43326718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43326718", "title": "Malaysia Airlines Flight 17", "text": "Malaysia Airlines Flight 17\n\nMalaysia Airlines Flight 17 (MH17) was a scheduled passenger flight from Amsterdam to Kuala Lumpur that was shot down on 17 July 2014 while flying over eastern Ukraine, killing all 283 passengers and 15 crew on board. Contact with the aircraft, a Boeing 777-200ER, was lost when it was about from the Ukraine–Russia border and wreckage of the aircraft fell near Hrabove in Donetsk Oblast, Ukraine, from the border. The shoot-down occurred in the War in Donbass, during the Battle of Shakhtarsk, in an area controlled by pro-Russian rebels. The crash was Malaysia Airlines' second aircraft loss during 2014 after the disappearance of Flight 370 on 8 March.\n\nThe responsibility for investigation was delegated to the Dutch Safety Board (DSB) and the Dutch-led joint investigation team (JIT), who concluded that the airliner was downed by a Buk surface-to-air missile launched from pro-Russian separatist-controlled territory in Ukraine. According to the JIT, the Buk that was used originated from the 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade of the Russian Federation, and had been transported from Russia on the day of the crash, fired from a field in a rebel-controlled area, and the launcher returned to Russia after it was used to shoot down MH17. On the basis of the JIT's conclusions, the governments of the Netherlands and Australia hold Russia responsible for the deployment of the Buk installation and are taking steps to hold Russia formally accountable.\n\nThe DSB and JIT findings confirmed earlier claims by American and German intelligence sources as to the missile type and launch area. In 2014 the American intelligence had also said that Russia had supplied the Buk missile to pro-Russian insurgents, and that the insurgents most plausibly shot down MH17 in error, after misidentifying it as a military aircraft.\n\nUkrainian Prime Minister Arseniy Yatsenyuk laid the blame on professional soldiers that he said came from Russia, stating that \"it wasn't drunken militants with Ukrainian passports [who shot down the Malaysian plane], it was done by Russian professionals and coordinated from Russia\", adding that \"the whole world has learned about the Russian lies and Russian propaganda.\" As of May 2018, the Russian government rejects claims that Russia bears any responsibility for the crash, and denies involvement. The Russian defense ministry said that it had never deployed anti-aircraft missile systems in Ukraine. Several false conspiracy theories about the crash have since appeared in Russian media, including that the aircraft was followed by a Ukrainian military jet. The Russian Government holds Ukraine responsible since the crash happened in the Ukrainian flight information region.\n\nThe Ukrainian Air Force (UAF) was used extensively in operations against the rebels, and several UAF aircraft had been shot down over the rebel-controlled territory, both before and after the MH17 incident. Immediately after the crash, a post appeared on the VKontakte social media profile attributed to Igor Girkin, leader of the Donbass separatist militia, claiming responsibility for shooting down a Ukrainian An-26 military transporter near Torez. This post was removed later the same day, and the separatists then denied shooting down any aircraft. In late July 2014, communications intercepts were made public in which, it is claimed, separatists are heard discussing an aircraft that they had downed. A video from the crash site, recorded by the rebels and obtained by News Corp Australia, shows the first rebel soldiers to arrive at the crash site. At first they assumed that the downed aircraft was a Ukrainian military jet, and were dismayed when they started to realise that it was a civilian airliner.\n\nFlight 17, which was also marketed as KLM Flight 4103 (KL4103) through a codeshare agreement, was operated with a Boeing 777-2H6ER, serial number 28411, registration 9M-MRD. The 84th Boeing 777 produced, it first flew on 17 July 1997, exactly 17 years before the incident, and was delivered new to Malaysia Airlines on 29 July 1997. Powered by two Rolls-Royce Trent 892 engines and carrying 280 seats (33 business and 247 economy), the aircraft had recorded more than 76,300 hours in 11,430 cycles before the crash. The aircraft was in an airworthy condition at departure.\n\nThe Boeing 777, which entered commercial service on 7 June 1995, has one of the best safety records among commercial aircraft. In June 2014 there were about 1,212 aircraft in service, with 340 more on order.\n\nThe incident is the deadliest airliner shootdown incident to date. All 283 passengers and 15 crew died. By 19 July, the airline had determined the nationalities of all 298 passengers and crew.\n\nThe crew were all Malaysian, while over two-thirds (68%) of the passengers were Dutch. Most of the other passengers were Malaysians and Australians, the remainder were citizens of 7 other countries.\n\nAmong the passengers were delegates en route to the 20th International AIDS Conference in Melbourne, including Joep Lange, a former president of the International AIDS Society, which organised the conference. Many initial reports had erroneously indicated that around 100 delegates to the conference were aboard, but this was later revised to six. Also on board were Dutch Senator Willem Witteveen, Australian author Liam Davison, and Malaysian actress Shuba Jay.\n\nAt least twenty family groups were on board the aircraft, and eighty of the passengers were under the age of 18.\n\nThe flight had two captains, Wan Amran Wan Hussin from Kuala Kangsar and Eugene Choo Jin Leong () from Seremban, and two copilots, Ahmad Hakimi Hanapi and Muhd Firdaus Abdul Rahim.\n\nSome airlines started to avoid eastern Ukrainian airspace in early March 2014 due to safety concerns. In April, the International Civil Aviation Organization warned governments that there was a risk to commercial passenger flights over south-eastern Ukraine. The American Federal Aviation Administration issued restrictions on flights over Crimea, to the south of MH17's route, and advised airlines flying over some other parts of Ukraine to \"exercise extreme caution\". This warning did not include the MH17 crash region. 37 airlines continued overflying eastern Ukraine and about 900 flights crossed the Donetsk region in the seven days before the Boeing 777 was shot down.\n\nOn 14 June 2014, a Ukrainian Air Force Ilyushin Il-76 aircraft was shot down on approach to Luhansk International Airport; all 49 people on board died. On 29 June, Russian news agencies reported that insurgents had obtained a Buk missile system after having taken control of a Ukrainian air defence base (possibly the former location of the 156th Anti-Aircraft Missile Regiment [156 zrp]). On the same day, the Donetsk People's Republic claimed possession of such a system in a since-deleted tweet.\n\nOn 14 July 2014, a Ukrainian Air Force An-26 transport plane flying at was shot down. The militia reportedly claimed via social media that a Buk missile launcher had been used to bring down the aircraft. American officials later said evidence suggested the aircraft had been shot down from Russian territory. On 16 July, a Sukhoi Su-25 close air support aircraft was also shot down. The Ukrainian government said the Russian military had shot down the aircraft with an air-to-air missile fired by a MiG-29 jet in Russia; a spokesman for the Russian defence ministry rejected that report as \"absurd\".<ref name=\"rfe/rl on rejection of accusation\"></ref> According to the Dutch newspaper \"De Telegraaf\", the Ukrainian government also warned the government of the Netherlands and other European countries about dangers in flying over the East Ukraine three days prior to the shootdown due to the downing of the An-26 transport aircraft on 14 July.\n\nOn 15 July 2014, following his visit to Kiev, Polish Minister of Foreign Affairs Radosław Sikorski warned about the dangers posed by the continued Russian military support for pro-Russian separatists, especially ground-to-air missiles. On 17 July, an Associated Press journalist saw a Buk launcher in Snizhne, a town in Donetsk Oblast, southeast of the crash site. The reporter also saw seven separatist tanks near the town. Associated Press journalists reported that the Buk M-1 was operated by a man \"with unfamiliar fatigues and a distinctive Russian accent\" escorted by two civilian vehicles. The battle around Savur-Mohyla has been suggested as the possible context within which the missile that brought down MH17 was fired, as separatists deployed increasingly sophisticated anti-aircraft weaponry in this battle, and had brought down several Ukrainian jets in July. A Ukrainian An-26 was scheduled to deliver paratroopers to the battle arena on 17 July and, according to Russian expert Vadim Lukashevich, the separatists \"might have been waiting just for them\". According to the final report of the Dutch Safety Board, no An-26 was downed in Eastern Ukraine that day.\n\nOn 5 June 2014, the airspace above Donetsk Oblast was closed by Ukraine below and on 14 July that below was closed. A few hours before the shootdown the Russian ATC issued NOTAM UUUUV6158/14 which closed the Russian airspace in the adjacent area below (FL 530). The reason given was \"armed conflict in Ukraine\", but such a high altitude was not justified by previous incidents and was comparable with the range of the Buk missile. The Dutch Safety Board asked Russian ATC for further explanation but \"did not receive any clarity on the meaning of the restriction to FL 530\" As with other countries, Ukraine receives overflight fees for commercial aircraft that fly through their borders and this may have contributed to the continued availability of civilian flight paths through the conflict zone, and so flights were allowed that time over FL 320 in the area (MH17 was at FL 330 at the incident)\n\nOn Thursday, 17 July 2014, Malaysia Airlines Flight 17 departed from Amsterdam Airport Schiphol Gate G3 at 12:13 CEST (10:13 UTC) and took off at 12:31 local time (10:31 UTC). It was due to arrive at Kuala Lumpur International Airport at 06:10 MYT, Friday, 18 July (22:10 UTC, 17 July).\n\nAccording to the original flight plan, MH17 was to fly over Ukraine at flight level 330 (33,000 feet or 10,060 metres) and then change to FL 350 around the Ukrainian city of Dnipropetrovsk. When it reached the area as planned, at 15:53 local time (12:53 UTC), Dnipropetrovsk Air Control (\"Dnipro Control\") asked MH17 if they could climb to FL 350 as planned, and also to avoid a potential separation conflict with another flight, Singapore Airlines Flight 351 (SQ351), also at FL 330. The crew asked to remain at FL 330 and the air control approved this request, moving the other flight to FL 350. At 16:00 local time (13:00 UTC), the crew asked for a deviation of to the left (north) of course, on airway L980, due to weather conditions. This request was also approved by \"Dnipro Control\" ATC. The crew then asked if they could climb to FL 340, which was rejected as this flight level was not available, so MH17 remained at FL 330. At 16:19 local time (13:19 UTC), \"Dnipro Control\" noticed that the flight was north of the centreline of approved airway and instructed MH17 to return to the track. At 16:19 local time (13:19 UTC), \"Dnipro Control\" contacted Russian ATC in Rostov-on-Don (\"RND Control\") by telephone and requested clearance to transfer the flight to Russian airspace. After obtaining the permission, \"Dnipro Control\" attempted to contact MH17 for handing them off to \"RND Control\" at 16:20 local time (13:20 UTC), but the aircraft did not respond. When MH17 did not respond to several calls, \"Dnipro Control\" contacted \"RND Control\" again to check if they could see the aircraft on their radar. \"RND Control\" confirmed that the plane had disappeared.\n\nThe Dutch Safety Board reported a last flight data recording at 16:20 local time (13:20 UTC), located west of the urban-type settlement Rozsypne (Розсипне), near Hrabove heading east-southeast (ESE, 115°) at .\n\nAt exactly 16:20:03 local time (13:20:03 UTC) a Buk ground-to-air missile, which had been launched from an area east from the aircraft, detonated outside the aircraft just above the cockpit to the left. An explosive decompression occurred, resulting in both the cockpit and tail sections tearing away from the middle portion of the fuselage. All three sections disintegrated as they fell rapidly towards the ground.\n\nThe majority of debris landed near Hrabove, a village located north of Torez in eastern Ukraine's Donetsk Oblast. The debris spread over a area to the southwest of Hrabove. The fireball on impact is believed to have been captured on video. Photographs from the site of the crash show scattered pieces of broken fuselage and engine parts, bodies, and passports. Some of the wreckage fell close to houses. Dozens of bodies fell into crop fields, and some fell into houses.\n\nThree other commercial aircraft were in the same area when the Malaysian plane crashed: Air India Flight 113 (AI113), a Boeing 787 en route from Delhi to Birmingham, EVA Air Flight 88 (BR88), a Boeing 777 en route from Paris to Taipei, and the closest aircraft Singapore Airlines Flight 351 (SQ351) was away, a Boeing 777 en route from Copenhagen to Singapore.\n\nA Ukraine Foreign Ministry representative said that the bodies found at the crash site would be taken to Kharkiv for identification, to the north. By the day after the crash, 181 of the 298 bodies had been found. Some were observed being placed in body bags and loaded onto lorries.\n\nDutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte complained about the lack of respect shown to the personal belongings of the dead which were reportedly being looted. He initially announced his disgust about the handling of the bodies that were reportedly being \"dragged around\" and \"thrown\", but later stated they had been handled with more care than originally thought. On 20 July, Ukrainian emergency workers, observed by armed separatists, began loading the remains of the passengers of MH17 into refrigerated railway wagons for transport and identification.\n\nOn 21 July, pro-Russian rebels allowed Dutch investigators to examine the bodies. By this time, 272 bodies had been recovered, according to Ukrainian officials. Remains left Torez on a train on the evening of 21 July, en route to Kharkiv to be flown to the Netherlands for identification. On the same day, Malaysian Prime Minister Najib Razak announced that the Malaysian government had reached a tentative agreement to retrieve the remains of the Malaysians who died in the crash, following any necessary forensic work.\nIt was reported on 21 July that with 282 bodies and 87 body fragments found, there were still 16 bodies missing. An agreement had been reached that the Netherlands would co-ordinate the identification effort. A train carrying the bodies arrived at the Malyshev Factory, Kharkiv on 22 July. Dutch authorities stated that they found 200 bodies on the train when it arrived at Kharkhiv, leaving almost 100 unaccounted for. In late July, the UK Metropolitan Police sent specialist officers to Ukraine to assist with the recovery, identification and repatriation of bodies.\n\nThe first remains were flown to Eindhoven in the Netherlands on 23 July, moved there with Dutch air force C-130 and Australian C-17 transport aircraft, which landed at Eindhoven Airport just before 16:00 local time. The day after, another 74 bodies arrived. The examination and identification of the bodies was conducted at the Netherlands Army medical regiment training facility in Hilversum and was coordinated by a Dutch forensic team.\n\nOn 1 August it was announced that a search and recovery mission, including about 80 forensic police specialists from the Netherlands, Malaysia and Australia, and led by Colonel Cornelis Kuijs of the Royal Marechaussee, would use drones, sniffer dogs, divers and satellite mapping to search for missing body parts at the crash site. Australian officials had believed that as many as 80 bodies were still at the site, but after some days of searching the international team had \"found remains of only a few victims\" and concluded that \"the recovery effort undertaken by local authorities immediately after the crash was more thorough than initially thought.\"\n\nOn 6 August the Dutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte announced that the recovery operation would be temporarily halted due to an upsurge in fighting around the crash site threatening the safety of crash investigators and recovery specialists, and that all international investigators and humanitarian forces conducting searches would leave the country leaving behind a small communications and liaison team.\n\nOn 22 August the bodies of 20 Malaysians (of 43 killed in the incident) arrived in Malaysia. The government announced a National Mourning Day, with a ceremony broadcast live on radio and television.\n\nOn 9 October a spokesman for the Dutch national prosecutor's office stated that one victim had been found with an oxygen mask around his neck; a forensic investigation of the mask for fingerprints, saliva and DNA did not produce any results and it is therefore not known how or when that mask got around the neck of the victim.\n\nBy 5 December 2014, the Dutch-led forensic team had identified the bodies of 292 out of 298 victims of the crash. In February and April 2015 new remains were found on the site, after which only 2 victims, both Dutch citizens, had not been identified.\n\n\"De Telegraaf\", a large-circulation Dutch tabloid, published on 19 July a front page photo-collage of pro-Russian rebel leaders, including Igor Girkin, under the one-word headline \"Murderers\" (\"Moordenaars\").\n\nIt was suggested on other media that credit and debit cards may have been looted from the bodies of the victims, and the Dutch Banking Association said it would take \"preventative measures\" against any possible fraud. There were also accusations that other possessions had been removed and that evidence at the crash site had been destroyed. Dutch prime minister Mark Rutte acknowledged on 6 August that early reports of chaos and criminality around the site may have been exaggerated. One eye-witness observed that valuable items like shoes and bottles of alcohol were untouched in the wreckage.\n\nAbout 90 minutes after the incident, Ukraine closed all routes in Eastern Ukrainian airspace, at all altitudes. The incident dramatically heightened fears about airliner shootdowns, leading to some airlines announcing they would avoid overflying conflict zones.\n\nShortly after the crash, it was announced that Malaysia Airlines would retire flight number MH17 and change the Amsterdam–Kuala Lumpur route to flight number MH19 beginning on 25 July 2014, with the outbound flight unchanged. In association with the retirement of the Boeing 777 aircraft type from Malaysia Airlines' fleet, Malaysia Airlines terminated service to Amsterdam, opting to codeshare with KLM on the KUL-AMS route for service beyond 25 January 2016. On 18 July 2014, shares in Malaysia Airlines dropped by nearly 16%.\n\nOn 23 July 2014, two Ukrainian military jets were hit by missiles at the altitude of close to the area of the MH17 crash. According to the Ukrainian Security Council, preliminary information indicated that the missiles came from Russia.\n\nIn July 2015, Malaysia proposed that the United Nations Security Council set up an international tribunal to prosecute those deemed responsible for the downing of the plane. The Malaysian resolution gained a majority on the Security Council, but was vetoed by Russia. Russia had proposed its own rival draft resolution, which pushed for a greater U.N. role in an investigation into what caused the downing of the aircraft and demanded justice, but their proposal would not have set up a tribunal.\n\nOn 9 June 2016, a Russian businessman claimed that the shooting down of the plane put an end to hopes of a Russian nation in Ukraine and prolonged the War in Donbass.\n\nTwo parallel investigations were led by the Dutch, one into the technical cause of the crash, and a separate criminal inquiry. The technical report was released on 13 October 2015, while the criminal investigation reported some of their findings in September 2016. According to the Convention on International Civil Aviation, the country in which an aviation incident occurs is responsible for the investigation, but that country may delegate the investigation to another state; Ukraine has delegated the leadership of both investigations to the Netherlands.\n\nIn the hours following the crash, a meeting was convened of the Trilateral Contact Group. After they had held a video conference with representatives of insurgents affiliated with the Donetsk People's Republic (who controlled the area where the aircraft crashed), the rebels promised to \"provide safe access and security guarantees\" to \"the national investigation commission\" by co-operating with Ukrainian authorities and OSCE (Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe) monitors. During the first two days of investigation, the militants prevented the OSCE and the workers of Ukrainian Emergencies Ministry from freely working at the crash site. Andrei Purgin, a leader of the Donetsk People's Republic, declared later that \"we will guarantee the safety of international experts on the scene as soon as Kiev concludes a ceasefire agreement\".\nBy 18 July 2014, the flight data recorder and the cockpit voice recorder had been recovered by separatists, and three days later were handed over to Malaysian officials in Donetsk. The voice recorder was damaged but there was no evidence that data had been tampered with.\n\nThe National Bureau of Air Accidents Investigation of Ukraine, which led investigations, both off-site and on-site, during the first days after the crash, had by August 2014 delegated the investigation to the DSB because of the large number of Dutch passengers and the flight having originated in Amsterdam.\n\nOn 22 July 2014, a Malaysian team of 133 officials, search and recovery personnel, and forensics, technical and medical experts arrived in Ukraine. Also Australia sent a 45-member panel headed by former Air Chief Marshal Angus Houston, who had earlier supervised the MH 370 probe. Approximately 200 special forces soldiers from Australia were also deployed to provide support for the JIT investigators. The United Kingdom sent six investigators from the Air Accidents Investigation Branch (AAIB) and the UK Foreign Office sent extra consular staff to Ukraine. It took until late July before the full international team could start working at the crash site, under the leadership of the Dutch Ministry of Defence.\n\nOn 30 July 2014, a Ukrainian representative said that pro-Russian rebels had mined approaches to the crash site and moved heavy artillery.\n\nOn 6 August 2014, the experts left the crash site due to concerns about their safety. In mid-September they unsuccessfully attempted to regain access to the site. On 13 October 2014, a Dutch-Ukrainian team resumed recovery of victims' personal belongings. In mid-November 2014, work was undertaken to remove part of the wreckage from the crash site. Earlier efforts by the recovery team to salvage the MH17 wreckage had been frustrated by disagreements with the local rebels. The recovery operation took one week to complete. The debris was transported to the Netherlands where investigators reconstructed parts of the plane.\n\nIn August 2015, possible Buk missile launcher parts were found at the crash site by the Dutch led joint investigation team (JIT).\n\nSoon after the crash both American and Ukrainian officials said that a 9M38 series surface-to-air missile strike was the most likely cause, and if so, then the missile was fired from a mobile Soviet-designed Buk missile system (NATO reporting name: SA-11 \"Gadfly\") as this was the only surface-to-air missile system in the region capable of reaching the altitude of commercial air traffic. According to defence analyst Reed Foster (from Jane's Information Group), the contour of the aluminium and the blistering of the paint around many of the holes on the aircraft fragments indicate that small, high-velocity fragments entered the aircraft externally, a damage pattern indicative of an SA-11. Ballistics specialist Stephan Fruhling of the Australian National University's Strategic and Defence Studies Centre concurred with this, explaining that since it struck the cockpit rather than an engine it was probably a radar guided, rather than heat seeking, missile equipped with a proximity fuzed warhead such as an SA-11.\n\nShortly after the crash, Igor Girkin, leader of the Donbass separatists, was reported to have posted on social media network VKontakte, taking credit for downing a Ukrainian An-26. This news was repeated by channels in Russia, with LifeNews reporting \"a new victory of Donetsk self-defence who shot down yet another Ukrainian airplane\". The separatists later denied involvement, saying they did not have the equipment or training to hit a target at that altitude. Russian media also reported that Alexander Borodai called one of the Moscow media managers 40 minutes after the crash, saying that \"likely we shot down a civilian airliner\".\n\nWitnesses in Torez reported sightings on the day of the incident of what appeared to be a Buk missile launcher, and AP journalists reported sightings of a Buk system in separatist controlled Snizhne. The witness reports backed up photographs and videos which had been posted online, of the Buk launcher in rebel-held territory.\n\nOn 19 July 2014, Vitaly Nayda, the chief of the Counter Intelligence Department of the Security Service of Ukraine (SBU), told a news conference, \"We have compelling evidence that this terrorist act was committed with the help of the Russian Federation. We know clearly that the crew of this system were Russian citizens.\" He cited what he said were recorded conversations in which separatists expressed satisfaction to Russian intelligence agents that they brought down an aircraft. While one of the involved persons acknowledged that these conversations took place, the separatists denied that they were related to the crash of MH17 and blamed the Ukrainian government for shooting it down. According to Nayda, a Buk launcher used in the shootdown was moved back into Russia the night after the attack. The SBU released another recording, which they said was of pro-Russian-separatist leader Igor Bezler being told of an approaching aircraft two minutes before MH17 was shot down. Bezler said the recording was real, but referred to a different incident. The head of the SBU, Valentyn Nalyvaichenko, later concluded that rebels intended to shoot down a Russian airliner in a false flag operation to give Russia a pretext to invade Ukraine, but shot down MH17 by mistake.\n\nJournalists from the Associated Press in Snizhne, Ukraine reported seeing a Buk M-1 enter the town operated by a man \"with unfamiliar fatigues and a distinctive Russian accent\" escorted by two civilian vehicles, which then moved off in the direction where the shootdown later occurred. According to Ukrainian counterterrorism chief, Vitaly Nayda, after downing the plane under separatist direction, the launcher's Russian crew quickly moved it back across the border into Russia.\n\nOn 22 July 2014, a rebel fighter revealed to an Italian reporter that fellow separatists had told his unit the aircraft had been shot down under the assumption that it was Ukrainian. This information was verified and confirmed on the same day by a German newspaper. Unnamed American intelligence officials stated that sensors that traced the path of the missile, shrapnel patterns in the wreckage, voice print analysis of separatists' conversations in which they claimed credit for the strike, and photos and other data from social media sites all indicated that Russian-backed separatists had fired the missile.\n\nAmerican officials said that satellite data from infrared sensors detected the explosion of Flight MH17. American intelligence agencies said that analysis of the launch plume and trajectory suggested the missile was fired from an area near Torez and Snizhne. The British \"Daily Telegraph\" said: \"\"The Telegraph\"s own inquiries suggest the missile, an SA-11 from a Buk mobile rocket launcher, was possibly fired from a cornfield about to the south of the epicentre of the crash site.\" Other sources suggest the missile was launched from the separatist-controlled town of Chernukhino. Several other media outlets including \"The Guardian\", \"The Washington Post\" and the \"Sydney Morning Herald\" reported that the aeroplane is believed to have been downed by a rebel-fired missile.\n\nAn unnamed American intelligence official stated that Malaysia Airlines Flight MH17 may have been shot down in error by pro-Russian separatists, citing evidence that separatists launched an SA-11 surface-to-air missile that blew up the Malaysian airliner. They said it was possible the rebel was a former member of the Armed Forces of Ukraine who had defected to the pro-Russian separatists. The official dismissed Russian allegations that MH17 took evasive action and said the claim that the Ukrainian government had shot down MH17 was not realistic, as Kiev had no such missile systems in that area, which was rebel-controlled. American intelligence officials also said that Russia was attempting to disguise the flow of weaponry it was delivering to the rebels by sending older weapons that matched Ukraine's inventory. The British Foreign Office stated that it was \"highly likely\" that the missile was fired from an area controlled by Russian-backed separatists.\n\nThe Russian Ministry of Defence has maintained that American claims of separatist responsibility were \"unfounded\", and said that the American intelligence agencies have not released any of the data on which they based their conclusions. According to the Russian military, in what the \"New York Magazine\" called \"Russia's Conspiracy Theory\", MH17 was shot down by the Ukrainians, using either a surface-to-air missile or a fighter plane.\n\nOn 21 July 2014, the Russian Ministry of Defence held a press conference and said that while the Boeing 777 was crashing, a Ukrainian Su-25 ground-attack aircraft approached to within of the Malaysian airliner. The MoD also claimed that satellite photographs showed that the Ukrainian army moved a Buk SAM battery to the area close to the territory controlled by the rebels on the morning of 17 July, hours before the crash. They said the installation was then moved away again by 18 July. Promoted by Russian media, the idea that a Su-25 could have downed the Boeing 777 with an air-to-air missile was dismissed by chief designer of the Su-25, Vladimir Babak. In 2015 Bellingcat purchased satellite photos from the same area and time as used by the MoD and demonstrated that they had used older photos (May and June 2014) in their presentation that were edited to make a Ukrainian Buk launcher appear as if it was removed after the attack. In the report published by the Dutch Safety Board, an air-to-air missile strike was ruled out.\n\nIn an interview with Reuters on 23 July 2014, Alexander Khodakovsky, the commander of the pro-Russian Vostok Battalion, acknowledged that the separatists had an anti-aircraft missile of the type the Americans had said was used to shoot down the aircraft, and said that it could have been sent back to Russia to remove proof of its presence; he later retracted his comments, saying that he had been misquoted and stating that rebels never had a Buk. In November 2014 he repeated that the separatists had a Buk launcher at the time, but stated that the vehicle, under control of fighters from Luhansk, had still been on its way to Donetsk when MH17 crashed. It was then withdrawn to avoid being blamed.\n\nOn 28 July 2014, Ukrainian security official Andriy Lysenko announced, at a press conference, that black box recorder analysis had revealed that the aircraft had been brought down by shrapnel that caused \"massive explosive decompression.\" Dutch officials were reported to be \"stunned\" by what they saw as a \"premature announcement\" and said that they had not provided this information.\n\nOn 8 September 2014, the BBC released new material by John Sweeney who cited three civilian witnesses from Donbass who saw the Buk launcher in the rebel-controlled territory on the day when MH17 crashed. Two witnesses said the crew of the launcher and a military vehicle escorting it did not have local accents and spoke with Muscovite accents. On the same day Ignat Ostanin, a Russian journalist, published an analysis of photos and films of Buk units moving in Russia and Ukraine in the days before and after the MH17 crash. According to Ostanin, the markings on the specific launcher suspected of being used to shoot MH17, together with the number plates of the large goods vehicle that carried the launcher, suggested that it belonged to the 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade of the Air Defence Forces of the Russian Ground Forces.\n\nOn 8 October 2014 the president of the German Federal Intelligence Service (BND) gave a presentation about MH17 to a German parliamentary committee overseeing intelligence activities. According to \"Der Spiegel\", the report contained a detailed analysis which concluded that pro-Russian separatists had used a captured Ukrainian Buk system to shoot down Flight MH17. The report also noted that \"Russian claims the missile had been fired by Ukrainian soldiers and that a Ukrainian fighter jet had been flying close to the passenger jet were false\" and that Ukraine had published manipulated photographs. The Attorney General of Germany opened an investigation against unknown persons due to a suspected war crime.\n\nBetween November 2014 and May 2016, UK-based investigative collective Bellingcat made a series of conclusions, based on their examination of photos in social media and other open-source information. Bellingcat said that the launcher used to shoot down the aircraft was a Buk 332 of the Russian 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade based in Kursk, Russia, which had been transported from Donetsk to Snizhne and was controlled by separatists in Ukraine on the day of the attack.\n\nOn 22 December 2014 the Dutch news service RTL Nieuws published a statement of an unnamed local resident who witnessed the shooting down of MH17, indicating that the plane was shot down by a missile from rebel territory. He took photographs of what appeared to be the vapour trail of a ground-launched missile which he passed to the SBU. On 24 December Russia's state-operated domestic news agency RIA Novosti quoted the leader of the self-proclaimed Donetsk People's Republic, Alexander Zakharchenko, saying he saw MH17 shot out of the sky by two Ukrainian jets.\n\nIn January 2015 a report produced by the German investigative team CORRECT!V concluded a Buk surface-to-air missile launcher operated by the 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade shot down MH17. Large amounts of other circumstantial evidence were presented separately by various parties that supports this version, identifying specific launcher vehicle, operator name, truck transporting it and its alleged route through Russia and Ukraine.\n\nIn March 2015 Reuters published statements from named witnesses from Chervonyi Zhovten (), a village close to Torez and Snizhne, who said they saw the Buk rocket passing over the village when it was fired from a field around 1.5 km away. It also published a statement from a witness who was said to be a separatist fighter (referred to by first name only) who confirmed that the launcher was placed in that area on the day of the Boeing crash to prevent Ukrainian airstrikes.\n\nIn July 2015, News Corp Australia published the transcript of a 17-minute video recorded at the scene shortly after the crash. The transcript and published segments of the video indicated that Russian-backed rebels arrived at the crash site in the expectation of finding the wreckage of a military aircraft and of locating crew that had parachuted from the aircraft.\n\nIn May 2016, Stratfor released satellite imagery taken 5 hours before the crash which showed a Russian Buk system travelling on a flatbed truck east through the town of Makiivka, 40 km away from Snizhne. Stratfor's concluded that a Buk system had moved from the Russian border toward Donetsk on 15 July 2014, and then moved back to the east on the afternoon of 17 July 2014, hours before Flight MH17 was shot down.\n\nOn 9 September 2014, the preliminary report was released by the Dutch Safety Board (DSB). This preliminary report concluded that there was no evidence of any technical or operational failure in the aircraft or from the crew prior to the ending of the CVR and FDR recordings at 13.20:03 hrs (UTC). The report also said that \"damage observed on the forward fuselage and cockpit section of the aircraft appears to indicate that there were impacts from a large number of high-energy objects from outside the aircraft\". According to the investigators, this damage probably led to a loss of structural integrity that caused an in-flight break-up first of the forward parts of the aircraft and then of the remainder with an expansive geographic spread of the aircraft's pieces.\n\nTjibbe Joustra, Chairman of the Dutch Safety Board, explained that the investigation thus far pointed \"towards an external cause of the MH17 crash\", but determining the exact cause required further investigation. They also said that they aimed to publish the final report within a year of the crash date.\n\nThe Dutch Safety Board (DSB) issued its final report on the crash on 13 October 2015. The report concluded that the crash was caused by a Buk 9M38-series surface-to-air missile with a 9N314M warhead. The warhead detonated outside and above the left-hand side of the cockpit. The impact killed the three people in the cockpit and caused structural damage to the airplane leading to an in-flight break-up resulting in a wreckage area of 50 square kilometres and loss of the lives of all 298 occupants. Based on evidence they were able to exclude meteor strikes, the plane having technical defects, a bomb, and an air-to-air attack as causes of the crash. The DSB calculated the trajectory of the missile and found it was fired within a area southeast of Torez. Narrowing down a specific launch site was outside the DSB's mandate. The findings do not specify who launched the Buk missile but according to Al Jazeera, the area identified by the DSB was controlled by separatists at the time of the downing.\n\nIn addition to the technical investigation, the selection of the flight route was also investigated by the DSB. Many airlines had avoided the Eastern Ukrainian airspace for months prior to the MH17 disaster. Many others, including 62 operators from 32 countries, continued to use this route. The DSB recommended that states involved in armed conflicts should exercise more caution when evaluating their airspace, and operators should more thoroughly assess the risks when selecting routes over conflict areas.\n\nThe criminal investigation into the downing of MH17 is being led by the Public Prosecution Service of the Dutch Ministry of Justice, and is the largest in Dutch history, involving dozens of prosecutors and 200 investigators. Investigators interviewed witnesses and examined forensic samples, satellite data, intercepted communications, and information on the Web. Participating in the investigation along with the Netherlands, are the four other members of the joint investigation team (JIT), Belgium, Ukraine, Australia, and lastly, Malaysia, which joined in November 2014. Early in the investigation, the JIT eliminated accident, internal terrorist attack or air-to-air attack from another aircraft as the cause of the crash.\n\nIn December 2014, in a letter to the Security Council, the Netherlands UN representative wrote that \"The Dutch government is deliberately refraining from any speculation or accusations regarding legal responsibility for the downing of MH17.\" Also in December, the assistant secretary of the United States Department of State's European and Eurasian Affairs said America had given all of its information, including classified information to the Dutch investigators and to the ICAO.\n\nOn 30 March 2015, the JIT released a Russian-language video calling for witnesses in the Donetsk and Luhansk regions who might have seen a Buk missile system. The video included some previously undisclosed recordings allegedly of tapped phone conversations between rebel fighters about the Buk. In one recording, of a conversation a few hours after the shoot down, a fighter says that a member of the Buk's accompanying crew had been left behind at a checkpoint. In another recording, dated the day after the shootdown, a rebel allegedly says the Buk system and its crew had been brought from Russia by \"the Librarian.\" The video presents a \"scenario\" whereby a Buk missile was transported on a Volvo low loader truck from Sievernyi (Сєверний), a town located within a kilometre of the Russian border (near Krasnodon), to Donetsk during the night of 16/17 July.\nIn the week following the public appeal, the JIT received more than 300 responses resulting in dozens of \"serious witnesses\". In 2016 the presence of the transloader of matching color with a Buk missile was confirmed on a satellite photo of the area taken just a few hours before the downing of the plane, which was described as \"correlating with other evidence\" by Stratfor who found the photo in DigitalGlobe archive.\n\nOn 9 April 2015 Dutch authorities made available 569 documents concerning the shoot-down. Personal information and official interviews had been redacted. A further 147 documents were not made public.\n\nOn 28 September 2016, the JIT gave a press conference in which it concluded that the aircraft was shot down with a 9M38 Buk missile fired from a rebel-controlled field near Pervomaisky (Первомайський), a town south of Snizhne. It also found the Buk missile system used had been transported from Russia into Ukraine on the day of the crash, and then back into Russia after the crash, with one missile less than it arrived with. The JIT said they had identified 100 people, witnesses as well as suspects, who were involved in the movement of the Buk launcher, though they had not yet identified a clear chain of command to assess culpability, which was a matter for ongoing investigation. The Dutch chief prosecutor said \"the evidence must stand before a court\" which would render final judgement. During the investigation, the JIT recorded and assessed five billion internet pages, interviewed 200 witnesses, collected half a million photos and videos, and analysed 150,000 intercepted phone calls. According to JIT head prosecutor Fred Westerbeke the criminal investigation is based on \"immense body of evidence,\" including testimonies of live witnesses who saw the \"Buk\" launcher, primary radar data, original photos and videos.\nOn 24 May 2018, after extensive comparative research, the JIT concluded that the Buk that shot down the flight came from the Russian 53rd Anti-Aircraft Missile Brigade in Kursk. The head of the National Investigation Service of the Dutch police asked the eyewitnesses and insiders to share information about the identities of the Buk crew members, the instruction the crew members followed and persons responsible for the operational deployment of the involved Buk on 17 July 2014. According to Dutch Public Prosecution Service, by 24 May 2018 \"the authorities of the Russian Federation have ... not reported to the JIT that a Buk of the 53rd Brigade was deployed in Eastern Ukraine and that this Buk downed flight MH17.\" In response, Russian President Vladimir Putin stated that Russia will analyze the JIT conclusion, but will acknowledge it only if it becomes a party in the investigation. The Russian Ministry of Defence in turn stated that no Russian Buk crossed the border with Ukraine.\n\nOn 25 May 2018 the governments of the Netherlands and Australia issued a joint statement in which they laid responsibility on Russia \"for its part\" in the crash. The Netherlands and Australian foreign ministers stated that they would hold Russia legally responsible for shooting the airliner down. Netherlands Foreign Minister Stef Blok stated that \"the government is now taking the next step by formally holding Russia accountable,\" and, \"The Netherlands and Australia today asked Russia to enter into talks aimed at finding a solution that would do justice to the tremendous suffering and damage caused by the downing of MH17. A possible next step is to present the case to an international court or organization for their judgment.\"\n\nSeveral other countries and international organisations expressed their support for the JIT's conclusions and the joint statement by the Netherlands and Australia. UK Foreign Secretary Boris Johnson said the United Kingdom \"fully supports Australia and the Netherlands,\" calling on Russia to cooperate. High Representative Federica Mogherini of the EU stated that the European Union \"calls on the Russian Federation to accept its responsibility\" and to cooperate as well. The German government called on Russia to \"fully explain the tragedy.\" The US Department of State issued a statement saying that the United States \"strongly support the decisions by the Netherlands and Australia,\" requesting Russia to acknowledge its involvement and to \"cease its callous disinformation campaign.\" NATO Secretary General Jens Stoltenberg called on Russia to \"accept responsibility and fully cooperate ... in line with United Nations Security Council Resolution 2166.\" In response to the JIT's conclusions, Russian President Vladimir Putin reiterated that the Russians are \"not involved in it.\"\n\nIn June 2015, the Netherlands, supported by the other JIT members, sought to create an international tribunal to prosecute those suspected of downing the Malaysian airliner, which would take up the case after the closing of the criminal investigation. The Dutch hoped that an international tribunal would induce Russian cooperation, which was considered critical. In late June 2015, the Russian government rejected a request by the five countries on the investigative committee to form a UN tribunal which would try those responsible for the shooting down of the aircraft, calling it \"not timely and counterproductive.\" On 8 July 2015, Malaysia, a member of the UN Security Council, distributed a draft resolution to establish such a tribunal. This resolution was jointly proposed by the five JIT member countries. Russian UN Ambassador Vitaly Churkin responded, \"I don't see any future for this resolution. Unfortunately, it seems that this is an attempt to organize a grandiose, political show, which only damages efforts to find the guilty parties.\" Russia later circulated a rival resolution which criticised the international investigation's lack of \"due transparency\" and demanded those responsible be brought to justice, but which did not call for a tribunal. In a vote, Malaysia's resolution gained majority support of the UNSC, but was vetoed by Russia.\n\nIn a statement by the Dutch Minister of Foreign Affairs of 5 July 2017, it was announced that the JIT countries will prosecute any suspects identified in the downing of flight MH17 in the Netherlands and under Dutch law. A future treaty between the Netherlands and Ukraine will make it possible for the Netherlands to prosecute in the cases of all 298 victims, regardless of their nationality. This treaty was signed on 7 July 2017. On 21 March 2018, the Dutch government sent legislation to the parliament, allowing the suspects involved to be prosecuted in the Netherlands under Dutch law. , no charges have been filed.\n\nOn 20 December 2017, the Intelligence and Security Committee of the UK Parliament published its annual report. It contains a short section entitled \"Russian objectives and activity against UK and allied interests\" which quotes MI6 as stating: \"Russia conducts information warfare on a massive scale... An early example of this was a hugely intensive, multichannel propaganda effort to persuade the world that Russia bore no responsibility for the shooting down of [Malaysian Airlines flight] MH-17 (an outright falsehood: we know beyond any reasonable doubt that the Russian military supplied and subsequently recovered the missile launcher)\".\n\nIn July 2015 a writ was filed in an American court by families of 18 victims accusing the separatist leader Igor Girkin of \"orchestrating the shootdown\" and the Russian government of being complicit in the act. The writ was brought under the Torture Victim Protection Act of 1991. In May 2016 families of 33 victims of the crash filed a claim against Russia and president Vladimir Putin in the European Court of Human Rights, arguing Russian actions violated the passengers' right to life. A group of 270 relatives of Dutch victims joined the claim in May 2018 after the JIT concluded that Russia was involved. In July 2016, Malaysia Airlines was sued in Malaysia by 15 passengers' families in two separate writs, each brought under the Montreal Convention, arguing that the airline should not have chosen that route. A month earlier, a separate lawsuit was brought by the families of 6 crew members who alleged negligence and breach of contract by the airline.\n\nUkrainian President Petro Poroshenko called the crash the result of an act of terrorism, and also called for an international investigation into the crash.\n\nMalaysian Deputy Foreign Minister Hamzah Zainuddin said that the foreign ministry would be working with the Russian and Ukrainian governments with regard to the incident. Prime Minister Najib Razak said that Malaysia was unable yet to verify the cause of the crash and demanded that the perpetrators be punished. The Malaysian government flew the national flag at half-mast from 18 July until 21 July.\n\nDutch Prime Minister Mark Rutte and King Willem-Alexander voiced their shock at the crash, and Minister of Foreign Affairs Frans Timmermans joined the Dutch investigation team sent to Ukraine. Dutch government buildings flew the flag at half-mast on 18 July. Music was cancelled and festivities were toned down on the last day of the Nijmegen Marches. On 21 July the Netherlands opened a war crimes investigation on the downing of the aircraft and a Netherlands public prosecutor went to Ukraine as part of this investigation. Rutte threatened tough action against Russia if it did not help in the investigation. An increase in negative emotions and somatic complaints was observed in the Dutch population during the first four days after the MH17 crash.\n\nAustralian Prime Minister Tony Abbott said in an address to parliament that the aircraft was downed by a missile which seemed to have been launched by Russian-backed rebels. Julie Bishop, the Australian Minister for Foreign Affairs, said in an interview on an Australian television programme that it was \"extraordinary\" that her Russian counterparts had refused to speak to her over the shootdown after the Russian ambassador was summoned to meet her. The Russian government was critical of Abbott's response; Abbott was one of the first world leaders to publicly connect the shootdown to Russia. Abbott later criticised the recovery efforts as \"shambolic\", and \"more like a garden clean-up than a forensic investigation\"; Bishop publicly warned separatist forces against treating the victims' bodies as hostages. Abbott also said in an interview on 13 October 2014, in anticipation of Russia's President Vladimir Putin's attendance at the 2014 G20 summit, scheduled for mid-November 2014 in Brisbane, Australia: \"Australians were murdered. They were murdered by Russian-backed rebels using Russian-supplied equipment. We are very unhappy about this.\"\n\nRussian President Putin said that Ukraine bore responsibility for the incident which happened in its territory, which he said would not have happened if hostilities had not resumed in the south-east of Ukraine. He also said that it was important to refrain from reaching hasty conclusions and politicised statements before the end of the investigation. He said that Russia would help an international inquiry led by the ICAO. At the end of July a Duma deputy Ilya Ponomarev said in an interview for \"Die Welt\" that the separatists had shot down the plane by mistake and that Putin now realised he had supplied the weapon to the \"wrong people\". The Danish Institute for International Studies has pointed out to the similarities of Russian reaction to the downing of Korean Airlines flight KAL-007 in 1983 where the USSR initially denied any involvement.\n\nUnited States President Barack Obama said the United States would help determine the cause. In a press statement, White House spokesman Josh Earnest called for an immediate ceasefire in Ukraine to allow for a full investigation. Vice-President Joe Biden said the plane appeared to have been deliberately shot down, and offered American assistance for the investigation into the crash. American Ambassador to the United Nations Samantha Power called on Russia to end the war. The British government requested an emergency meeting of the United Nations Security Council and called an emergency Cobra meeting after the incident. Chairman of the US Joint Chiefs of Staff Martin E. Dempsey said that instead of backing away from supporting the rebels in the wake of the airliner shootdown, Putin had \"taken a decision to escalate.\"\n\nOn 17 July the European Union's representatives José Manuel Barroso and Herman Van Rompuy released a joint statement calling for an immediate and thorough investigation. The EU officials also said that Ukraine has first claim on the plane's black boxes.\n\nThe International Civil Aviation Organization announced, on 18 July, that it was sending its team of experts to assist the National Bureau of Air Accidents Investigation of Ukraine (NBAAI), under Article 26 of the Convention on International Civil Aviation. The United Nations Security Council adopted Resolution 2166 on 21 July, regarding an official crime investigation into the incident. On 24 July 2014 the ICAO issued a State Letter reminding signatory states of their responsibilities with respect to the safety and security of civil aircraft operating in airspace affected by conflict.\nAfter the crash, memorial services were held in Australia and in the Netherlands, which declared 23 July, the day when the first victims arrived in the country, a national day of mourning, the first since 1962. The opening ceremony of the AIDS 2014 conference, on 20 July, of which several delegates had been on board Flight MH17, began with a tribute to the victims of the crash. In Malaysia, makeshift memorials were created in the capital city of Kuala Lumpur.\n\nIn July 2014, shortly after the crash, the liberal Russian opposition newspaper \"Novaya Gazeta\" published a headline in Dutch that read \"Vergeef ons, Nederland\" (\"Forgive Us, Netherlands\").\n\nCoverage by official media and bodies has however differed from coverage in most other countries and significantly changed over time usually in response to new evidence published by DSB and the investigation team.\n\nAccording to the poll conducted by the Levada Center between 18 and 24 July in 2014, 80% of Russians surveyed believed that the crash of MH17 was caused by the Ukrainian military. Only 3% of respondents to the poll blamed the disaster on pro-Russian separatists in eastern Ukraine.\n\nIn December 2017 the Russian portal \"The Insider\", the news agency McClatchyDC, and Bellingcat performed a joint investigation that confirmed the identity of a high-rank military officer using a call-sign \"Dolphin\" to be colonel general Nikolai Fedorovich Tkachev. Tkachev is frequently heard in the wiretaps acquired by JIT supervising the operation of \"Buk\" delivery and set-up.\n\nOn the evening of the crash, the LifeNews portal released a statement from the separatists saying that a \"Ukrainian Air Force An-26 transport plane\" had been shot down by a missile and crashed. ITAR-TASS and RIA Novosti also reported that an An-26 had been shot down by the separatist militia near Torez at around 16:00 local time in what it described as \"yet another victory of DPR self-defence\". There was no evidence about altitude and weapons used.\n\nShortly after it became evident that the plane was a civilian one the separatist media denied any involvement in the crash and possession of anti-aircraft missiles capable of reaching this altitude.\n\nOn 18 July Commander of the Donbass People's Militia Igor Girkin was quoted as stating that \"a significant number of the bodies weren't fresh\". He followed up by saying \"Ukrainian authorities are capable of any baseness\"; and also claimed that blood serum and medications were found in the plane's wreckage in large quantities. Girkin also claimed that some of the passengers had died a few days before the crash.\n\nThe Russian government-funded outlet RT initially said that the plane may have been shot down by Ukraine in a failed attempt to assassinate Vladimir Putin, in a plot which was organised by Ukraine's \"Western backers\". This was quickly dismissed as Putin's flight route was going hundreds of kilometres north of Ukraine.\n\nOther conspiracy theories propagated by Russian media included that the Ukrainians shot down the plane by mistake, drawing parallels to downing Siberia Airlines Flight 1812 in 2001 (reported in July and in December 2014); that Ukrainian air traffic controllers purposefully redirected the flight to fly over the war zone (proven false by the DSB investigation); and that the Ukrainian government organised the attack on the plane to bring infamy upon the pro-Russian rebels.\n\nThe number of alternative theories disseminated in Russian mass media started growing as the DSB and JIT investivations increasingly pointed towards the separatists. On 15 November 2014, Russia's Channel One reported on a supposedly leaked spy satellite photo which showed the plane being shot from behind by a Ukrainian Su-25 fighter jet. Many other Russian media reprinted the photo but its authenticity was immediately dismissed as the airplanes were out of scale which indicated poor copy-and-paste. Later it was disclosed, that the photo had been initially emailed to the Vice-President of the Russian Union of Engineers by a self-described aviation expert who had found it on a Russian online forum. The aviation expert later apologised, saying that he was unhappy with how the information had been used.\n\nIn July 2014, Sara Firth, who had worked as a correspondent with RT for the previous five years, resigned in protest at the channel's coverage of the crash, which she described as \"lies\". RT said Firth had left to take another job.\n\nIn 2017 Dutch newspaper \"NRC Handelsblad\" described how false stories about the MH17 crash had been propagated with the support of Christian Democratic Appeal politician Pieter Omtzigt, who introduced a Russian-speaking Ukrainian man as an \"eyewitness\" to the crash on a public expert debate in May 2017. The man, who was an asylum-seeker from Ukraine, did not witness the crash and his speech, texted to him by Omtzigt prior to the interview, repeated the Russian-promoted version that Ukrainian jets downed the Boeing.\n\nIn May 2015 \"Novaya Gazeta\" published a report by \"a group of Russian military engineers\" that came to the conclusion that the airplane was shot down by a Buk-M1 launcher with 9M38M1 missile. The authors also analysed the visible impact traces on the surface of the airplane and suggested that the missile couldn't have been fired from Snizhne, but was instead fired from Zaroshchenske and claimed that a Ukrainian anti-air unit was located there at that time. In June 2015 the report was the subject of a press conference and was attributed to Mikhail Malisevskiy, chief engineer at Moscow-headquartered Almaz-Antey, the Buk missile manufacturer. The Security Service of Ukraine said that there were inaccuracies in this version, and called part of the report a fake. Russian military expert Vadim Lukashevich argued on TV Rain that the spatial orientation of the rocket at the moment of explosion did not exclude the possibility that it was launched from Snizhne, as the report claimed. Lukashevich also noted that the report admitted a Buk missile as the cause of the crash, discrediting the previous theories about the crash (Su-25 etc.) circulated in Russian media. \"Ukrainska Pravda\" questioned claims about the Ukrainian anti-aircraft unit and stated that Zaroshchenske was under control of pro-Russian forces on the day of shootdown. \"Novaya Gazeta\" published a long analysis by Mark Solonin, also denying the Almaz-Antey version, interviewed inhabitants of Zaroshchenske who denied claims that Ukrainian forces and Buk launchers were present in the village at that time. According to Bellingcat, Russia's satellite images were from June and showed signs of editing. \"Bild\" described the Russian satellite image as \"fake\".\n\nOn 17 September 2018, Russia's Ministry of Defense held a press conference that aimed to cast doubt on Moscow's culpability for the tragedy. Lt. Gen. Nikolai Parshin, chief of the Missile and Artillery Directorate, told that after Dutch investigators displayed parts of the missile and their serial numbers, they studied and declassified archives at the research center that produced the Buk missiles. Parshin said the Russian archives show that the missile that was made of these parts was transported to a military unit in western Ukraine in 1986, and to Russia's knowledge never left Ukraine. Officials also claim that video evidence presented by Joint Investigation Team (JIT), in which the missile that allegedly shot down the plane being moved from Russia into Ukraine, were fabricated.\n\nJIT responded that it had requested Russia in May 2018 on the issue of details about recovered missile parts, but had received no answer. Information from the Russian Ministry of Defense will be carefully studied as soon as the documents were made available, as requested in May 2018 and required by UNSC in 2016. JIT stated it had always carefully analysed information provided by Russia, but information presented to the public was inaccurate on several points. Russia has given differing accounts over time of how MH17 was shot down; for example they also claimed to have evidence (radar image) of Ukrainian fighter fired an air-to-air missile to MH17.\n\nOleksandr Turchynov, secretary of National Security and Defense Council of Ukraine, said that Russia's claim is \"yet another failed fake report that the Kremlin made up in order to cover up their crime that has been proven by the official investigation as well as independent experts.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50393405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50393405", "title": "Mary Wept Over the Feet of Jesus", "text": "Mary Wept Over the Feet of Jesus\n\nMary Wept Over the Feet of Jesus is a graphic novel by Canadian cartoonist Chester Brown, published in 2016. The book is subtitled Prostitution and Religious Obedience in the Bible, and is made up of adaptations of stories from the Bible that Brown believes promote pro-prostitution attitudes among early Christians, and argues for the decriminalization of prostitution.\n\nAs in his previous graphic novel \"Paying for It\" (2011), Brown takes a pro-prostitution stance in \"Mary Wept Over the Feet of Jesus\". He declares his research has determined that Mary, mother of Jesus, was a prostitute, that early Christians practised prostitution, and that Jesus' Parable of the Talents should be read in a pro-prostitution light. Brown describes himself as a Christian who is \"not at all concerned with imposing 'moral' values or religious laws on others\" and believes that Biblical figures such as Abel and Job \"find favour with God because they oppose his will or challenge him in some way\".\n\nBrown adapts the stories or portions of stories of Cain and Abel, Tamar, Rahab, Ruth, Bathsheba, Mary, mother of Jesus, the Parable of the talents, Mary of Bethany, Matthew, and the Parable of the Prodigal Son. Handwritten appendices make up the final third of the book, including commentary on the comics, a 55-title bibliography, and a 20-page comics adaptation of the Book of Job.\n\nBrown lays out the simple, precise artwork in a fixed grid of four panels to a page. The dialogue is plain and direct. The cover features a vagina-shaped frame into which Brown incorporates two smiling snakes and an open book, from which red drops fall.\n\nIn the book's appendices, Brown puts forth his interpretations of the stories. He argues that prostitution had an honorable place in Biblical society, and that Matthew left clues in his narrative that Mary was a prostitute. Brown details facts from his research that coloured his interpretations, such as that \"feet\" was used as a euphemism for \"penis\". He also tells of where he used artistic license in his retellings, and of errors he made, such as depicting coins at a time when coins had not yet come into use.\n\n"}
{"id": "54063065", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54063065", "title": "Melodifestivalen 2018", "text": "Melodifestivalen 2018\n\nMelodifestivalen 2018 was the 58th edition of the Swedish music competition Melodifestivalen, which selected Sweden's entry for the Eurovision Song Contest 2018. The competition was organised by Sveriges Television (SVT) and took place over a six-week period between 3 February and 10 March 2018.\n\nThe format of the competition consists of 6 shows: 4 semi-final rounds, a second chance round and a final. An initial 28 entries were selected for the competition through three methods: an open call for song submissions, direct invitations to specific artists and songwriters and a wildcard given to one of the artists that participated in the \"Svensktoppen nästa\" competition organised by Sveriges Radio P4. The 28 competing entries were divided into four semi-finals, with seven compositions in each. From each semi-final, the songs that earn first and second place qualify directly to the final, while the songs that place third and fourth proceed to the Second Chance round. The bottom three songs in each semi-final will be eliminated from the competition. An additional four entries qualify from the Second Chance round to the final, bringing the total number of competing entries in the final to 12. All 6 shows were hosted by David Lindgren and Fredrik Svensson, known as Fab Freddie.\n\nThe winner of the competition is Benjamin Ingrosso with the song \"Dance You Off.\" He represented Sweden at the Eurovision Song Contest 2018 which was held in Lisbon, Portugal, where he came seventh with 274 points.\n\nMelodifestivalen 2018, organised by Sveriges Television (SVT), was be the seventeenth consecutive edition of the contest in which the competition took place in different cities across Sweden. The four semi-finals were held at the Löfbergs Arena in Karlstad (3 February), the Scandinavium in Gothenburg (10 February), the Malmö Arena in Malmö (17 February) and the Fjällräven Center in Örnsköldsvik (24 February). The Second Chance round took place at the Kristianstad Arena in Kristianstad on 3 March while the final was held at the Friends Arena in Stockholm on 10 March. An initial 28 entries competed in the semi-finals, with seven entries taking part in each show. The top two entries from each semi-final advanced directly to the final, while the third and fourth placed entries advanced to the Second Chance round. The bottom three entries in each semi-final were eliminated. An additional four entries qualified for the final from the Second Chance round, bringing the total number of competing entries in the final to 12.\n\nIn October 2017, it was speculated by Swedish tabloid \"Aftonbladet\" that former Melodifestivalen contestant and host David Lindgren would be one of the presenters of this year's competition. On 2 November 2017, SVT confirmed that David Lindgren would be the host of the competition. Lindgren hosted the competition in 2017 and also competed as an artist in 2012, 2013 and 2016.\n\nAs in previous years, Melodifestivalen commenced with four semi-finals, which determined the eight entries that advanced directly to the final and the eight entries that qualified to the Second Chance round.\n\nThe first semi-final took place on the 3rd of February 2018 at the Löfbergs Arena in Karlstad. A total of 6,617,451 votes were cast throughout the show with a total of 452,906 SEK collected for Radiohjälpen.\n\nThe second semi-final took place on the 10th of February 2018 at the Scandinavium arena in Gothenburg. A total of 5,880,237 votes were cast throughout the show with a total of 396,252 SEK collected for Radiohjälpen.\nThe third semi-final took place on the 17th of February 2018 at the Malmö Arena in Malmö. A total of 4,800,971 votes were cast throughout the show with a total of 432,824 SEK collected for Radiohjälpen.\n\nThe fourth semi-final took place on the 24th of February 2018 at Fjällräven Center in Örnsköldsvik. A total of 4,866,749 votes were cast throughout the show with a total of 385,483 SEK collected for Radiohjälpen.\n\nThe Second Chance round took place on the 3rd of March 2018 at the Kristianstad Arena in Kristianstad. A total of 6,007,515 votes were cast throughout the show with a total of 346,287 SEK collected for Radiohjälpen.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51362647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51362647", "title": "Miss Guatemala 2015", "text": "Miss Guatemala 2015\n\nThe 61st edition of the event Miss Guatemala for 2015, was held on September 20, 2015 in Hall Azarea, Paseo Cayalá in Guatemala City, Guatemala. 12 candidates Departments competed for the title. At the end of the event Ana Luisa Montufar, Miss Guatemala 2014, crowned Jeimmy Aburto of Capital City South as his successor.\n\nThe final evening was broadcast live and live by National channel Guatemala. The final gala was led by Carina Velasquez and Cristian Zamora. The artists who enlivened the evening were the Guatemalan singer Danny Sanjosé and Mexican singer Alejandro Peniche.\n"}
{"id": "9372872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9372872", "title": "Nafovanny", "text": "Nafovanny\n\nNafovanny in Vietnam is the largest captive-breeding primate facility in the world, supplying long-tailed macaques (\"Macaca fascicularis\") to animal testing laboratories, including Huntingdon Life Sciences in the UK and Covance in Germany.\n\nNafovanny was set up in 1994 by Vanny Chian Technology, a Hong Kong company, according to Reuters. The company is reported to have set up a U.S.$2 million joint venture company, called Nafovanny, with Vietnam's Forestry Ministry, with the intention of creating a network of monkey farms in southern Vietnam.\n\nResponding to criticism of the project from Dr. John Wedderburn, a former member of the RSPCA's ruling council, Daniel Chen, a director of Vanny Chain Technology, said: \"We have not got a problem with that because what we are doing is very humane and it is for the welfare of human beings.\"\n\nNafovanny consists of two main farms in Long Thanh near the Cambodian border, with a total area of 90,000 square meters, able to hold 30,000 monkeys. According to the British Union for the Abolition of Vivisection (BUAV), the facility also maintains satellite breeding farms on the Cambodian border, in which the BUAV alleges wild monkeys may also be held; the existence of these farms is not referenced in the company's brochure, according to the BUAV. \n\nThe British Home Office has said it has no knowledge of Nafovanny satellite farms. However, it also said that \"This decision was premised upon the contractual arrangements having been entered into in good-faith whilst Nafovanny was still considered to be an acceptable source, and animals already selected for onward supply to the UK. The view was taken that proper provision would be made for the welfare of these animals prior to their being shipped to the UK – and that this could be verified from the records and findings on arrival.\" \n\nThe British government approved Nafovanny to export primates to British laboratories in 1999. The British Animal Scientific Procedures Inspectorate visited Nafovanny in March 2005, and identified \"shortcomings in animal accommodation and care,\" but since then the government has \"received assurances and evidence that significant improvements have been made.\"\n\nAccording to \"Viet Nam News\", 3,000 Nafovanny macaques were exported to the U.S. for testing purposes in 2000.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31663576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31663576", "title": "Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad", "text": "Osama bin Laden's compound in Abbottabad\n\nOsama bin Laden's compound, known locally as the Waziristan Haveli (), was an upper-class mansion that was used as a safe house for militant Islamist Osama bin Laden, who was shot and killed there by U.S. forces on May 2, 2011. The compound was located at the end of a dirt road 1,300 metres (0.8 mi) southwest of the Pakistan Military Academy in Bilal Town, Abbottabad, Pakistan, a suburb housing many retired military officers. Bin Laden was reported to have evaded capture by living in a section of the house for at least five years, having no Internet or phone connection, and hiding away from the public, who were allegedly unaware of his presence.\n\nCompleted in 2005, the main buildings in the compound lay on a plot of land, much larger than those of nearby houses. Its perimeter was 3.7- to 5.5-metre (12 to 18 ft) concrete walls topped with barbed wire, and there were two security gates. The compound had very few windows. Little more than five years old, the compound's ramshackle buildings were badly in need of repainting. The grounds contained a well-kept vegetable garden, rabbits, some 100 chickens and a cow. The house itself did not stand out architecturally from others in the neighbourhood, except for its size and exaggerated security measures; for example, the third-floor balcony had a 2-metre (7 ft) privacy wall. Photographs inside the house showed excessive clutter and modest furnishings. After the American mission, there was extensive interest in and reporting about the compound and its design. To date, the Pakistani government has not responded to any allegations as to who had built the structure.\n\nAfter the September 11 attacks in 2001, the U.S. searched for bin Laden for nearly 10 years. By tracking his courier Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti to the compound, U.S. officials surmised that bin Laden was hiding there. During a raid on May 2, 2011, 24 members of the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group arrived by helicopter, breached a wall using explosives, and entered the compound in search of bin Laden. After the operation was completed and bin Laden was killed, Pakistan demolished the structure in February 2012.\n\nIn the urban setting, the architecture of the bin Laden hideout was called by an architect as \"surprisingly permanent – and surprisingly urban\" and \"sure to join Saddam Hussein's last known address among the most notorious examples of hideout architecture in recent memory\". The compound was fortified with many safeguard features intended to confuse would-be invaders, and U.S. officials described the compound as \"extraordinarily unique\". Associated Press identified the owner as Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti, who purchased the vacant land for the complex in 2004 and four adjoining lots between 2004 and 2005 for the equivalent of US$48,000.\n\nConstructed between 2003 and 2005, the three-story structure was located on a dirt road northeast of the city centre of Abbottābad. The local architect for the project said it was only built and planned for a two-story structure and that the third floor (where bin Laden lived) was built afterwards in an illegal construction. While the compound was assessed by U.S. officials at a value of 1 million, local real estate agents assess the property value at 250,000. Intelligence reports have indicated that bin Laden may have moved into the complex on 6 January 2006.\n\nOn a plot of land much larger than those of nearby houses, it was surrounded by concrete walls topped with barbed wire. Apart from its size, it does not stand out from others in the neighborhood and it was not easily seen except from close by. The compound walls were higher than usual in the neighbourhood, although nearly all houses in Bilal Town have barbed wire. There were no phones or Internet wires running into the compound. Security cameras were found installed, and aerial photographs show several satellite dishes. There were two security gates and the third-floor balcony had a two meter (7 ft) privacy wall. The compound measured in size, and had relatively few windows.\n\nThe compound was known as Waziristan Haveli () by the local residents. The compound's casual name referred to Waziristan, a region in Pakistan, and a \"haveli\", which means \"mansion\". It was owned by a transporter from Waziristan; bin Laden previously spent time in the Waziristan area of Pakistan.\n\nOne of the main builders of the compound, Gul Mohammed, was instructed to construct the high perimeter fence and then to build another wall 2 metres (7 ft) tall around one of the dwellings. He became suspicious and when he asked about the huge, fort-like walls, he was told it was none of his business. According to Mohammed, one or two men came to supervise the project and they were not stingy with funds. He was told to refer to the main occupant of the household as \"The Master\" even though he never met him.\n\nThe house where the bin Laden family lived on the two upper floors was large and modestly furnished. It had \"cheap foam mattresses, no air conditioning (but central heating) and old televisions.\" Several of the bedrooms had an attached kitchen and a bathroom. One of the first floor rooms was furnished with a whiteboard, markers and textbooks, to serve as a classroom for the children in the house, who were home-schooled in Arabic.\n\nThe self-described brothers of the house known to the neighbours would frequently visit the local shops. They would buy enough food to feed ten people, and purchased \"the best brands—Nestle milk, the good-quality soaps and shampoos\", Pepsi and Coca-Cola. The food found at the house by the Pakistani authorities was basic, such as dates, nuts, eggs, olive oil and dried meat. The brothers would visit Rasheed's corner store, about a minute's walk from the house, with young children for whom they bought sweets and soft drinks. They also purchased bread from a local bakery.\n\nRabbits, 100 chickens and a cow were reared on the compound grounds. A vegetable garden at the back of the house was well-kept, and \"Shamraiz\", a neighbouring farmer, was paid to plant vegetables about twice a year. Days before the May 2011 raid \"Shamraiz\" was called to plough additional ground in the compound using a tractor. He never went inside the house itself.\n\nThe compound had an adjacent grazing area that hosted cows and a buffalo as well as a deep water well, possibly allowing it a water supply separate from the local municipality. There was a small garden on the north side of the house that included poplar trees. A farmer's field growing cabbages and potatoes surrounded the compound on three sides, and wild \"Cannabis\" plants grew up to the side of the compound.\n\nAccording to NBC News, the following drugs and medicines were found at the compound by Pakistani investigators: Tablet, Ulcer Capsule, Tab/Cap Gabapentin, Penza drops, Natrilix, Grucid, Avena syrup, NIFIM (an antibiotic), Tixylix syrup (used generally for paediatric bronchitis), Brufen and Dettol (an antiseptic).\n\n\"Gulf News\" reported that it had previously been used as a safe house by Inter-Services Intelligence, but was no longer being used for this purpose. ISI alleged that this compound was raided in 2003 while under construction as Abu Faraj al-Libbi was suspected of living there. However, this account was disputed by American officials who said that satellite photos show that in 2004 the site was an empty field. The compound was believed to be built around the summer of 2005 to late 2006, based on local accounts, most likely completed in late 2005 as intelligence reports indicate Bin Laden may have moved into the house on 6 January 2006. \n\nAmerican intelligence officials discovered bin Laden's whereabouts by tracking one of his couriers, Abu Ahmed al-Kuwaiti. Information was collected from Guantánamo Bay detainees who gave intelligence officers al-Kuwaiti's pseudonym and said that he was a protégé of Khalid Sheikh Mohammed. In 2007, U.S. officials discovered the courier's real name, and, in 2009, that he lived in Abbottābad. Using satellite photos and intelligence reports, the CIA surveilled the inhabitants of the compound. In September, the CIA concluded that the compound was \"custom built to hide someone of significance\" and that it was very likely that bin Laden was residing there. Officials surmised that he was living there with his youngest wife. U.S. Intelligence estimates that bin Laden lived in the compound for five or six years. Bin Laden's wife confirmed to the Pakistani authorities that they had lived in the compound for five years. Prior to moving to the compound, they lived in the village of Chak Shah Muhammad, in the nearby Haripur District, for nearly two and a half years.\n\nOsama bin Laden was killed in Waziristan Haveli on 2 May 2011, shortly after 1AM local time, by a United States special forces military unit.\n\nEncounters between the SEALs and the residents took place in the guest house, in the main building on the first floor where two adult males lived, and on the second and third floors where bin Laden lived with his family.\n\nThe operation, code-named \"Operation Neptune Spear\", was ordered by United States President Barack Obama and carried out in a U.S. Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) operation by a team of United States Navy SEALs from the United States Naval Special Warfare Development Group (informally known as DEVGRU or by its former name SEAL Team Six) of the Joint Special Operations Command in conjunction with CIA operatives. The raid on the compound was launched from Afghanistan. After the raid, U.S. forces took bin Laden's body to Afghanistan for identification, then buried it at sea within 24 hours of his death.\n\nFollowing the raid, the former hideout was placed under the security control of the Pakistan Police. Days after the raid, police allowed reporters and locals to approach the walls of the compound, but kept the doors sealed shut. There was intense media interest in the architecture of the compound. The construction included highly fortified walls made of concrete blocks with three gates, separating the building from the large courtyard and a garden planted with immature fruit trees in front of a collapsed wall. The remains of the Navy SEALs' helicopter that crashed during the U.S. operation were later removed from the site with a tractor.\n\nPakistan security agencies demolished the compound in February 2012 to prevent it from becoming a \"sacred building for jihadis\". In February 2013, Pakistan announced plans to build a R265 million ($2.7m) amusement park in the area, including the property of the former hideout.\n\nLocals disclosed details about their interactions with the residents of the compound to an AP journalist in Pakistan. A woman who distributed polio vaccines to the compound said she saw expensive SUVs parked inside. The men received the vaccine and instructed her to leave. A woman in her 70s said one of the men from the hideaway gave her a ride to the market in rainy weather. Her grandchildren played with the children living in the house, and received rabbits as presents. One farmer said, \"People were skeptical in this neighbourhood about this place and these guys. They used to gossip, say they were smugglers or drug dealers. People would complain that even with such a big house they didn't invite the poor or distribute charity.\" Present at some neighbourhood funerals, two men from the compound were \"tall, fair skinned and bearded\" and self-identified as cousins from elsewhere in the region. Neighbors said that if a child's ball went over the fence, the men in the compound did not return that ball; instead they paid the child 100–150 Pakistani rupees (about US$2–$3), many times the value of the ball.\n\n"}
{"id": "47368284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47368284", "title": "Provisional liquidation", "text": "Provisional liquidation\n\nProvisional liquidation is a process which exists as part of the corporate insolvency laws of a number of common law jurisdictions whereby after the lodging of a petition for the winding-up of a company by the court, but before the court hears and determines the petition, the court may appoint a liquidator on a \"provisional\" basis. (The provisional liquidator is appointed to safeguard the assets of the company and maintain the \"status quo\" pending the hearing of the petition.) Unlike a conventional liquidator, a provisional liquidator does not assess claims against the company or try to distribute the company's assets to creditors.\n\nIn practice most instances of applications for a provisional liquidator involve some type of allegation of fraud or other misconduct relating to the company.\n\nTypically, an application for the appointment of a provisional liquidator is made by either:\n\nThe remedy is an exceptional one, and most instances of applications for a provisional liquidator are made because of concerns about some type of material impropriety. In exceptional cases it is also possible for public authorities to apply for the appointment of a provisional liquidator to protect the public interest from fraud or other similar conduct, although this is much less common.\n\nThe court invariably has a discretion whether to appoint a provisional liquidator. A court will not normally approve the application unless it is satisfied that there is a strong liklihood that a liquidator will be appointed on the substantive application. But even if the company is likely to go into liquidation, provisional liquidation is still an exceptional interim or \"emergency remedy\". There needs to be special reasons for the appointment of a provisional liquidator in the interim period. Normally this is because the assets must face a high risk of dissipation or there must be some other urgent reason why a liquidator is required for the interim period.\n\nApplications are most likely to be granted in situations where:\n\nConversely, because there needs to be some urgency or risk of dissipation of assets, applications are likely to be refused if:\n\nGiven their nature, applications for provisional liquidation are often made urgently and without giving notice to the company or its directors. Where the application is made without notice:\n\nIf the court makes the order then a provisional liquidator is appointed over the company, and the control of all assets of the company, and the conduct of any business and other affairs of the company are transferred to the provisional liquidator. The directors cease to have any authority. In almost all jurisdictions, the provisional liquidator will normally have to be a licensed insovency practitioner. \n\nThe provisional liquidator will generally only have the powers and functions conferred upon him or her by the order of the court. It is not normally part of the role of a provisional liquidator to collect and sell the assets of the company, or otherwise take steps in relation to the actual winding up the company. The principal reason for the appointment is the preservation of the company's property.\n\nOne of the common functions of a provisional liquidator is to investigate whether the company's property has been misappropriated or its business has been wrongfully conducted. But generally speaking a provisional liquidator will not have power to bring proceedings on behalf of the company for wrongful trading, or to challenge transactions as undervalue transactions or unfair preferences.\n\nProvisional liquidation will normally come to an end in one of three ways:\n\nThe effect of provisional liquidation varies from jurisdiction to the jurisdiction.\n\nIn Australia provisional liquidation is regulated by section 472(2) of Corporations Act 2001. In Australia provisional liquidators must be licensed insolvency practitioners.\n\nUnder British Virgin Islands law provisional liquidation is regulated by section 170(4) of the Insolvency Act 2003. In \"Akai Holdings Limited v Brinlow Investments Limited\" it was held that an applicant would need to show four things:\n\nIn Canada provision liquidation is regulated under section 28 of the Winding-up and Restructuring Act (R.S.C., 1985, c. W-11).\n\nIn the Cayman Islands provisional liquidation is principally regulated by section 104(3) of the Companies Law (2013) Revision. One unusual feature of provisional liquidation in Cayman is that it is possible to appoint a provisional liquidator and still allow the directors to retain their powers of management. This in part facilitates a slightly unusual use of provisional liquidation in the Cayman Islands as part of a debtor in possession corporate rehabilitation prcoess. The company itself will apply for an order for provisional liquidation, and provisional liquidators are appointed which effectively creates a stay on the claims of unsecured creditors. The board of directors can then use that \"breathing space\" to try and implement a restructuring of the company's debts pursuant to a scheme of arrangement, or pursuant to an international restructuring process in the courts of another jurisdictions. This approach has not been rejected in the courts of other jurisdictions (such as Hong Kong), but accepted in others.\n\nIn Hong Kong there are three types of provisional liquidators. There are \"traditional\" provisional liquidators, appointed under section 193 of the Hong Kong Companies (Winding Up and Miscellaneous Provisions) Ordinance (Cap 32); there are also provisional liquidators appointed pursuant to a members' voluntary liquidation under section 228A of the Ordinance, and there are \"Panel T\" appointments under section 194(1A) of the Ordinance whereby the Official Receiver is appointed as provisional liquidator. \n\nSince the decision in the \"Legend\" case in 2006 provisional liquidation may not be used as a means of shielding the company from creditor's claims to facilitate a restructuring in Hong Kong, although prior to that date the practice was relatively common.\n\nIn South Africa \"provisional liquidation\" has a very different meaning. When a creditor or other person applies to the court for the liquidation of a business, then the order is first made a provisional basis, and then subsequent confirmed (or not) at a full hearing, much like a \"decree nisi\" and a \"decree absolut\" in other jurisdictions.\n\nIn the United Kingdom the power to appoint a provisional liquidator is found in section 135(1), of the Insolvency Act 1986, and it is regarded as an \"emergency procedure\". The categories of persons who may apply for the appointment are set out at rule 4.25(1) of the Insolvency Rules 1986. Under English law all provisional liquidators are required to be licensed insolvency practitioners. \nIf, upon the application for the appointment of a liquidator, there are concerns about potential dissipation of assets, or misconduct on the part of the directors, then the court may order the appointment of a provisional liquidator. Provisional liquidation is essentially an \n\"emergency procedure\". A provisional liquidator may only be appointed by the court only after a winding-up petition has been presented The main reason for appointing a provisional liquidator is normally to preserve the company's assets. In practice most instances of applications for a provisional liquidator involve some kind of fraud or other misconduct. The applicant will normally need to show that (a) it is likely that a winding up order will be made at the hearing of the petition; and (b) the company's assets are at risk prior to the hearing of the petition (which includes either dissipation of the company's assets, or the potential loss or destruction of the company's books and records. Accordingly, it will normally be necessary to establish either (or both) that: (a) the company is clearly insolvent, and it is likely that a winding up order will be made at the hearing of the petition; and/or (b) there has been the type of misconduct that would justify a just and equitable winding-up. An appointment of a provisional liquidator may also be made where it is in the public interest.\n\nBecause of the emergency nature of the remedy applications for provisional liquidation are very often made urgently and without giving notice to the company. In such cases the applicant is under a legal obligation to give full and frank disclosure to the court of all material facts, including facts which are adverse to the applicant's own case. The applicant will also normally be required to give an undertaking in damages in the event the court subsequently determines that the order should not have been made to compensate the company for any damage caused to it by the appointment.\n\nIf a provisional liquidator is appointed then the powers of the company's directors are effectively terminated, and the board will retain only a residual power to apply to dismiss or resist the winding-up petition. The appointment of a provisional liquidator comes to an end when:\n"}
{"id": "57265072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57265072", "title": "Rhythm of Structure", "text": "Rhythm of Structure\n\nRhythm of Structure is a multimedia interdisciplinary project founded in 2003. It features a series of exhibitions, performances, and academic projects that explore the interconnecting structures and process of mathematics and art, and language, as way to advance a movement of mathematical expression across the arts, across creative collaborative communities celebrating the rhythm and patterns of both ideas of the mind and the physical reality of nature.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure\", as an expanding series of art exhibitions, performances, videos/films and publications created and curated by multimedia mathematical artist and writer John Sims, explores and celebrates the intersecting structures of mathematics, art, community, and nature. Sims also created \"Recoloration Proclamation\" featuring the installation, The Proper Way to Hang a Confederate Flag (2004). \n\nFrom his catalog essay from the \"Rhythm of Structure: Mathematics, Art and Poetic exhibition\", Sims sets the curatorial theme where he writes: \"Mathematics, as a parameter of human consciousness in an indispensable conceptual technology, essential is seeing beyond the retinal and knowing beyond the intuitive. The language and process of mathematics, as elements of, foundation for art, inform an analytic expressive condition that inspires a visual reckoning for a convergence: from the illustrative to the metaphysical to the poetic. And in the dialectic of visual art call and text performative response, there is an inter-dimensional conversation where the twisting structures of language, vision and human ways give birth to the spiritual lattice of a social geometry, a community constructivism -- a place of connections, where emotional calculations meet spirited abstraction.\" \n\nFirst premiering at the Fire Patrol No.5 Gallery in 2003, with the show \"Rhythm of Structure: MathArt\" in Harlem. This interdisciplinary project has featured numerous exhibitions around the country collaborating with many notable artists, writers, and musicians including: Sol Lewitt, Adrian Piper, Dorothea Rockburne, Al Loving,Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, Helaman Ferguson, John Hiigli, Vandorn Hinnant, Karen Finley, Dread Scott, Paul D. Miller, Bob Holman, Kate Rushin, Roman Verostko, Joan Waltemath, Tara Betts, Brent Collins, Mike Field, Kazmier Maslanka, Ken Hiratsuka, Yael Acher Moriano, Richard Kostelanetz, Kristin Prevallet, John Sims, and former U.S. Poet Laureate Mark Strand.\n\nIn addition to the exhibitions, another major aim of \"Rhythm of Structure\" is the building of a interdisciplinary creative community around the intersection of mathematics and all forms of art, as it might inspire new art, innovation art and mathematics education, and increased respect and understanding of the rhythm and structure of nature itself. Such community experiences are created through call and response performances, social media and special video music projects such as The Rhythm of Structure and The Pi Day Anthem featuring John Sims and Vi Hart .\n\nRhythm of Structure has its beginnings in Sims’ work as one of the international curators for the exhibition \"Science in the Arts - Art in the Sciences\", a city wide exhibition, in conjunction with the UNESCO-ICSU World Conference of Science, Budapest, Hungary in 1999.\n\nThis led to the exhibition, \"MathArt/ArtMath\", curated by John Sims (then Coordinator of Mathematics at Ringling) and Kevin Dean, at the Selby Gallery Ringling College of Art and Design in 2002. This show presented a general survey of art inspired and framed by mathematics ideas of mostly American modern and contemporary artists, as well as mathematicians working in the area of visual mathematics. The theme of the show was designed to examine the complexity and diversity of the meaning of mathematical art. The \"MathArt/ArtMath\" exhibition featured: Josef Albers, Thomas Banchoff, Richard Anuszkiewicz, Manuelo Baez, Jhane Barnes, Max Bill, Mel Bochner, Brent Collins, David Davis, George Deem, Agnes Denes, M.C. Escher, Fred Eversley, Shannon Fagan, Helaman Ferguson, Mike Field, Charles Gaines, Paulus Gerdes, Bathsheba Grossman, Al Held, John Hiigli, Slavik Jablan, Alfred Jensen, Andrienne Klein, Sol LeWitt, Arthur Lee Loeb, Paul D. Miller aka DJ Spooky, Marlena Novak, Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, Richard Purdy, Tony Robbin, Dorothea Rockburne, Frank Rothkamm, Irene Rousseau, Carlo Sequin, John Sims, John Sullivan, Jack Tworkov, Roman Verostko, and John Waltemath. There was a brochure and video produced for this exhibition.\n\nAfter the \"MathArt/ArtMath\" exhibition, Sims began working on a text about the nature of mathematical art leading to his chapter, \"Trees, Roots and a Brain: A Metaphorical Foundation for Mathematical Art\", in the book \"Mathematics and Culture II: Visual Perfection: Mathematics and Creativity\". In his chapter, he presents his ideas on the interconnection of mathematics, art and nature, setting the stage for his next group of exhibitions called \"Rhythm of Structure\".\n\n\"MathArt in Harlem\", January 2003, Fire Patrol #5 Gallery in Harlem New York City, New York, featured artists Audrey Bennet, Brent Collins, Agnes Denes, Helaman Ferguson, Charles Gaines, Bathsheba Grossman, John Hiigli, Ken Hiratsuka, Adrienne Klein, Sol LeWitt, John Little, Al Loving, Marlena Novak, Joe Overstreet, Howardena Pindell, John Powell, Tony Robbin, Irene Rousseau, Clifford Singer, John Sims, and Joan Waltemath.\n\n\"The Mathematical Aesthetic\", 2004, Wilmer Jennings Gallery in New York City, New York, included artists: Joe Overstreet, John Biggers, Brent Collins, Lisa Corinne Davis, Fred Eversley, Terri Foster, Charles Gaines, Simon Gouverneur, James Little, Al Loving, Vandorn Hinnant, Scott Johnson, Howardena Pindell, John Sims, Kevin Sipp, Al Smith, Joyce Wellman, and Jack White.\n\nIn association with the \"Knotting Mathematics and Art: Conference in Low Dimensional Topology and Mathematical Art\" at University of South Florida in November 2007, there were three exhibitions of \"Rhythm of Structure: Beyond the Mathematics\", curated by John Sims, which were hosted at the Centre Gallery, Museum of Science & Industry in Tampa, and the Oliver Gallery, respectively. Featured artists for this exhibition included: Davide Cervone, Brent Collins, Alex Feingold, Helaman Ferguson, Mike Field, Nat Friedman, Chaim Goodman-Strauss, Gary Greenfield, Bathsheba Grossman, George W. Hart, Slavik Jablan, Sol Lewitt, Charles O. Perry, Tony Robbin, Radmilla Sazdanovic, John Sims, Carlo Sequin, and Peter Swedenborg.\n\nA review of the conference and exhibition was also published in the \"Journal of Mathematics and the Arts\".\n\n\"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\", 2009-2010, premiered at the Bowery Poetry Club in New York City, New York. This exhibition consisted of nine shows, each show a month long typically featuring two artists or a small group. Featured poets or performers were invited to respond to the works with a performance at the closing of the show. The entire exhibition featured over 70 artists and performers, plus an art class from Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment, and students of the Rhythm of Structure Class at NYU Tisch School of the Arts. The complete exhibition led to a published catalog and documentary film, which screened at the Sarasota Film Festival in 2012. The entire exhibition then traveled as a summary show to Ringling College of Art and Design, as well as Antioch College in 2011.\n\n\"Squares and Circles\" featuring John Hiigli and Vandorn Hinnant\n\nThis inaugural show featured the duet paintings: \"Chrome 163\" by John Hiigli, and \"What Euclid intended for us to know\" by Vandorn Hinnant. Responding poems/poets: \"Circular Vibration\" by Christina Schmitt, \"The Digital Organic\" by Alan Gilbert, \"The Square Transformed\" by Christina Schmitt, and \"Poemedy Squircular\" (Excerpt) by Summer Hill Seven.\n\n\"Lines and Curves\" featuring Paulus Gerdes/John Sims and Ken Hiratsuka \n\nThis show featured rope installation and stone carving: \"A Roped Mirrored Curve\" by Paulus Gerdes/John Sims, \"Chained Universe\" by Ken Hiratsuka. Responding poems/poets: \"Quadrants\" by Kristin Prevallet, \"Images of Devonian Age\" by Pooh Kaye, and \"The Curvature of Green\" by Shanxing Wang.\n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" featuring The Hive Artists \n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" created by John Sims based on the rotations of his piece \"SquareRoots of a Tree\" in a collaboration of the following works: \"Haloed Angel Study: Spark\" by Dorothea Rockburne, \"Eseau on Globe Crossing\" by Joyce Wellman, \"Chrome 151: 3 Spheres\" by John Hiigli , \"Isometric Systems in Isotropic Space-Map Projection: The Cube\" by Agnes Denes, \"Square Roots of a Tree\" by John Sims, \"Squaring the Circle: Heaven in Earth\" by Pam Tuczyn, \"Drawing 13\" by Roman Verostko, \"Poincare-double lace\" by Carlo Sequin, \"Iterations\" by Mike Field, \"Enlightened Vision #10\" by Christina Schmitt, \"Kelien-Fountain\" by Davide Cevone, \"Root Three Fractal SpiralGram\" by Vandorn Hinnant, \"Zero\" by Kevin Dean, \"Tree Root of a Fractal\" by John Sims, \"Spheres\" by Susan Happersett, \"Fish\" by Ken Hiratsuka, \"Drawn with a Compass, Chopstick and a Pen\" by Howardena Pindell, \"Our Days are Numbered!\" by Robert Fitterman, \"Mapping of the Universe\" by Faybiene Miranda, \"Is Numerology Math\" by Chris Funkhouser, \"Where Come Together\" by Chris Funkhouser, \"Alphabetical Mutability\" by Tatiana Bonch, and \"One\" by Marcella Durand.\n\n\"The Cartesian MathArt Hive\" was also featured in a \"Journal of Mathematics and Arts\" paper.\n\n\"You Lie\" featuring Paul D. Miller and Dread Scott \n\nThis exhibition featured the digital works on paper, \"You Lie\" by Paul D. Miller and \"Poll Dance\" by Dread Scott. Responding Poems/Poets: \"Spam A Lot (Viagra for Joe Wilson)\" by LaTasha N. Nevada Diggs, \"Survey\" by LaTasha N. Nevada Diggs, \"Coolant System\" by Alan Gilbert, and \"Count Me In\" by Kelly Zen-Yie Tsai.\n\n\"The Square Root of Love\" featuring Karen Finley and John Sims \n\nThis duet show featured: \"Many Moods of Love\" by Karen Finley and \"Square Root of Love\" by John Sims. Responding Poems/Poets:\"The Square Root of Love: Calculating the HEART of Things\" by JoAnne Growney, and \"Learning To Be My Father's Son or 16 Things I Could Never Tell My Father\" by Regie Cabico.\n\nJohn Sims' part of exhibition developed into a Valentine's Day wine-poetry-film project premiering in Paris in 2017.\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" featuring Sol LeWitt and Adrian Piper\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" featuring Sol LeWitt and Adrian Piper was a duet show that featured the wall installations: \"Drawing #163\" by Sol LeWitt, and \"Vanishing Point #1\" by Adrian Piper. Responding Poems/Poets: \"Sociedad Anonima\" by Mónica de la Torre, \"Two Poems Squared\" by Bob Holman, \"Dear Morning Light dear visiwind\" by Bob Holman, \"Terra Quad\" by Edwin Torres, \"MathArtPoem: A LeWitt/Piper Response\" by John Sims/Rhythm of Structure Class/NYU, \"For the Girl Who Was Asked to Write a Poem About Me and, as Usual, Wanted to Write a Poem About Her Heart Instead\" by Eboni Hogan, \"The Elevator\" by Mark Strand, and \"Empty\" by Jon Sands.\n\n\"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\" was reviewed by \"Art in America Magazine\".\n\n\"(20, 21, 29): An Assignment\" featuring the Students of Brooklyn Academy of Science and Environment\n\n\"(20, 21, 29): An Assignment,\" a visualization of the Pythagorean triple (20, 21, 29) created by art students with teacher Jennifer Lemish at the Brooklyn Academy of Science and the Environment. Responding Poems/Poets: \"21 Reasons Why I hate Math\" by Shappy Seasholtz, and \"29 Solutions For Writers, by People Who Know Better Than Me\" by Cristin O'Keefe Aptowicz.\n\n\"Mathematical Graffiti\" featuring Fernando Mora, John Sims with Kyle Goen, Mark Turgeon, and the Bowery Poetry Club Patrons\n\n\"Mathematical Graffiti\" featured: Fernando Mora, John Sims with Kyle Goen, Mark Turgeon, and the Bowery Poetry Club Patrons. Poetic Responses: \"Mutually Inverse Operations: Mathematical Poetry on the Occasion of the Mathematical Graffiti Wall\" by Gregory Vincent St. Thomasino, \"Proportional Poems\" by Kaz Maslanka, \"Graffiti Mathemaku\" by Bob Grumman, \"33 Symmetry Axes x 40 Orthogonal Triples: or, Free Will, Revisited\" by Stephanie Strickland, \"Who Counts, Counts\" by Stephanie Strickland, and \"Notes on Numbers\" by Richard Kostelanetz.\n\nGregory Vincent St. Thomasino featured portions of this exhibition in his blog.\n\n\"The HyperQuilt\" featuring Helen Beamish, Elaine Ellison, Suzanne Gould, John Sims, Ella Toy, Diana Venters, and Paula Wynter\n\n\"The HyperQuilt\" featured: Helen Beamish, Elaine Ellison, Suzanne Gould, John Sims, Ella Toy, Diana Venters, and Paula Wynter. Responding Poems/Poets: \"The Language of Quilts\" by Tara Betts, \"The Last Time\" by Adam Falkner and Jeanann Verlee, \"We Come From Farm People\" by Kate Rushin, \"The Math Poem: Along The Learning Curve\" by Kate Rushin.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure:\" Bowery and Beyond (2011)\n\nThe entire nine \"Rhythm of Structure\" shows at the Bowery Poetry Club were brought together as one united \"Rhythm of Structure: Bowery and Beyond\" exhibition at the Selby Gallery at Ringling College of Art and Design in February, 2011.\n\nAfter the Selby Gallery showing at Ringling, it was shown later that year at the Antioch College, from May to November 2011. The \"Dayton City Paper\" reviewed the exhibition and featured an article in their local newspaper.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection: Bowery and Beyond - Exhibition Catalogue\" \n\nIn 2011, the catalog \"Rhythm of Structure Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection: Bowery and Beyond\" was produced by Selby Gallery and Antioch College Herndon Gallery at Ringling College of Art and Design and John Sims, containing all 9 of the \"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" exhibits. \"Sarasota Herald Tribune\" previewed and reviewed the exhibition catalog at Selby Gallery, and the film at the Sarasota Film Festival.\n\n\"Rhythm of Structure:\" MathArt in the African Diaspora - International Review of African American Art \n\nIn 2004, John Sims and Juliette Harris co-edited a special issue, \"MathArt in the African Diaspora\", for the \"International Review of African American Art\" which featured artists: John Sims, Al Smith, Juliette Harris, Ron Eglash, Brent Collins, Andrea Pollan, Howardena Pindell, and Paulus Gerdes.\n\nIn the spring of 2010, in connection to the \"Rhythm of Structure: Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" at the Bowery Poetry Club, John Sims was invited to teach a course for the department of Art and Public Policy at Tisch School of the Arts. The course, \"Rhythm of Structure: Trees, Flags and Clock\", examined the mechanisms/structures of developing John Sims' three large-scale interdisciplinary art projects (as case studies), which explored issues of social justice, community building, and the politics of grand scale works. With these multi-level projects-in-progress, which intersect the space of art with mathematics, visual politics, and social networking, the course investigated the various strategies and challenges in creating a system of objects-texts-sounds-works that employs the tools of social organizing, media, technology, culture jamming, performance, poetry, and satire.\n\nThe student final group project was a collective video-poetry response to the Sol Lewitt and Adrian Piper exhibition, \"Selected Infinite Extensions Arbitrarily Constrained\", which was up at that point at the \"Rhythm of Structure\" exhibition at the Bowery Poetry Club. The video and live student readings were also presented at the closing of the show.\n\n\"Mathematics, Art and Poetic Reflection\" was made into a documentary, \"Rhythm of Structure: Bowery and Beyond\", and presented at Sarasota Film Festival in 2012. The film was also previewed and reviewed by the \"Saratosa Herald Tribune\".\n\nIn connection to the film screening, there was are dinner, art performance reception featuring John Sims and Karen Finley's Square of Love installation from the Rhythm of Structure exhibition at the Bowery Poetry Club. The dinner featured a special menu prepared by Chef Gene Marra inspired by roots and love. The performance program included Twinkle, the late Kenny Drew Jr., Thomas Carabasi, Eleonora Lvov, Nate Jacobs, Michael Mendez, Kyleelise Holmes, Greg Tate and Bahiyyah Maroon.\n\nThere have been a number of reviews for \"Rhythm of Structure\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46941515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46941515", "title": "SIKKA Art Fair", "text": "SIKKA Art Fair\n\nSIKKA is an annual event created by Dubai Culture & Arts Authority in 2011 as a commissioned art exhibition to showcase emerging artists from The United Arab Emirates. Originally focused on visual arts only but later widened its scope to cover film screenings, music, talks and workshops. Sikka takes place in Al Fahidi Historical Neighbourhood (al Bastakiya), The Arabic word sikka means alleyway.\n\n"}
{"id": "459528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=459528", "title": "September Six", "text": "September Six\n\nThe September Six were six members of The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints (LDS Church) who were excommunicated or disfellowshipped by the church in September 1993, allegedly\nfor publishing scholarly work against Mormon doctrine or criticizing church doctrine or leadership. The term \"September Six\" was coined by \"The Salt Lake Tribune\" and was used in the media and subsequent discussion. The LDS Church's action was referred to by some as evidence of an anti-intellectual posture on the part of church leadership.\n\nLynne Kanavel Whitesides is a Mormon feminist and is noted for speaking on the Mother in Heaven. Whitesides was the first of the group to experience church discipline and was disfellowshipped September 14, 1993. Though technically still a member, Whitesides claims that she \"burst\" out of the church and her marriage in 1993, and she now considers herself a practitioner of Native American philosophies.\n\nAvraham Gileadi is a Hebrew scholar and literary analyst, who is considered theologically conservative. Following his 1981 Ph.D. in Ancient Studies from Brigham Young University, he published a new interpretive translation of the Book of Isaiah in 1988 and a study of its eschatological prophesies in 1991. Mormon scholars, including Hugh Nibley, Truman G. Madsen and Ellis Rasmussen, praised his work, but his argument that the Isaiah prophesies pointed to a human \"Davidic king\" who would emerge in the Last Days, apart from Jesus Christ, was controversial, and his second book was pulled from the shelves by its publisher, church-owned Deseret Book. The reasons for his excommunication on September 15 are unclear. According to Margaret Toscano (whose husband was among the September Six and who would also later be excommunicated), Gileadi's \"books interpreting Mormon scripture challenged the exclusive right of leaders to define doctrine,\" but Gileadi himself disputes that characterization. The church afterwards reversed its disciplinary action against him and expunged it from the church's records, which is now officially regarded as having never happened. Gileadi is currently an active member of the church. He has continued to write books on Isaiah, including \"The Literary Message of Isaiah\" (2002) and \"Isaiah Decoded: Ascending the Ladder to Heaven\" (2002).\n\nPaul Toscano is a Salt Lake City attorney who co-authored, with Margaret Merrill Toscano, a controversial book, \"Strangers in Paradox: Explorations in Mormon Theology\" (1990), and in 1992, he co-founded The Mormon Alliance. He later wrote the book \" The Sanctity of Dissent\" (1994) and its sequel, \"The Sacrament of Doubt\" (2007).\n\nHe was excommunicated from the church on September 19, 1993. The reasons for his excommunication, as reportedly given by church leaders, were apostasy and false teaching. According to Toscano, the actual reason was insubordination in refusing to curb his sharp criticism of LDS Church leaders' preference for legalism, ecclesiastical tyranny, white-washed Mormon history, and hierarchical authoritarianism, which privilege the image of the corporate LDS Church above its commitment to its members, to the teachings and the revelations of founder Joseph Smith, and to the gospel of Jesus Christ.\n\nIn 2007, Toscano wrote that he lost his faith \"like losing your eyesight after an accident.\" He regrets that LDS Church leaders have disregarded his criticisms of what he considers the church's growing anti-intellectualism, homophobia, misogyny, and elitism.\n\nToscano's wife, Margaret, faced her own disciplinary council for her doctrinal and feminist views and was excommunicated on November 30, 2000. Some view her excommunication as constituting a \"seventh\" member of the September Six, as she was summoned in 1993, but ecclesiastical focus shifted to her husband. Margaret's discipline was delayed until 2000. Margaret later wrote \"The Missing Rib: The Forgotten Place of Queens and Priestesses in the Establishment of Zion\" as well as the tenth chapter of \"Transforming the Faiths of our Fathers: Women who Changed American Religion\" (2004), edited by Ann Braude.\n\nMaxine Hanks is a Mormon feminist theologian, who compiled and edited the book \"Women and Authority: Re-emerging Mormon Feminism\" (1992). She was excommunicated on September 19, along with fellow contributor D. Michael Quinn. In February 2012, Hanks was rebaptized as a member of the church.\n\nLavina Fielding Anderson is a Mormon feminist writer who edited the books \"Sisters in Spirit: Mormon Women in Historical and Cultural Perspective\" (1992) and \"Lucy's Book\", the definitive edition of the Lucy Mack Smith narrative. She is a former editor for the \"Ensign\" and served as editor for the \"Journal of Mormon History\" from 1991 to May 2009. She was excommunicated September 23.\n\nAnderson continues to attend LDS Church services as a non-member. She writes on Mormon issues, including editing the multi-volume \"Case Reports of the Mormon Alliance\", an ongoing collection of interviews with Mormons who believe they were unfairly disciplined by the church.\n\nD. Michael Quinn is a Mormon historian. Among other studies, he documented LDS Church-sanctioned polygamy from 1890 until 1904, after the 1890 Manifesto that officially abandoned the practice. He also authored the 1987 book, \"Early Mormonism and the Magic World View\", which argues that early Mormon leaders were greatly influenced by folk magic and superstitious beliefs including stone looking, charms, and divining rods. He was excommunicated September 26. \n\nQuinn had been summoned to a disciplinary council to answer charges of \"conduct unbecoming a member of the Church and apostasy,\" including \"'very sensitive and highly confidential' matters that were not related to Michael's historical writings.\" Anderson has suggested that the \"allusion to Michael's sexual orientation, which Michael had not yet made public, was unmistakable.\"\n\nQuinn has since published several critical studies of Mormon hierarchy, including his two-volume work of \"The Mormon Hierarchy: Origins of Power\" and \"The Mormon Hierarchy: Extensions of Power\". He also authored the 1996 book \"Same-Sex Dynamics Among Nineteenth-Century Americans: A Mormon Example\", which argues that homosexuality was common among early Mormons and was not seen as a serious sin or transgression.\n\nDespite his excommunication and critical writings, Quinn, who is now openly gay, still considers himself to be a Latter-day Saint.\n\nExcept for Whitesides, all of the September Six were excommunicated. Whitesides was disfellowshipped, a lesser sanction that does not formally expel one from church membership. To date, three of the September Six have retained or regained church membership: Avraham Gileadi and Maxine Hanks, who were rebaptized, and Lynne Whitesides, who remains a disfellowshipped member.\n\nWhile the LDS Church sometimes announces that a prominent member has been excommunicated, the default policy is to refuse to publicly discuss details about the reasons for any excommunication, even if details of the proceedings are made public by that person. Such disciplinary proceedings are typically undertaken locally, initiated by leaders at the ward or stake level, but at least one of the September Six has suggested that his excommunication was orchestrated by higher-ranking LDS Church leaders.\n\nProcedures pertaining to the organization of these disciplinary councils are found in the LDS Church's scriptural \"Doctrine and Covenants\" section 102 as well as in the church's administrative \"Handbook 1\"; members who are summoned to the councils are notified beforehand by their local church leaders.\n\nThe LDS Church later excommunicated sisters Janice Merrill Allred in 1995 and Margaret Merrill Toscano in 2000, who had collaborated with several of the September Six and were also involved in disciplinary actions during 1993.\n\nOther than the summons sent to each of the six (specifying that their behavior was \"contrary to the laws and order of the church\"), the LDS Church's is silent on why a member was disciplined.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "503993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=503993", "title": "Sunpadh", "text": "Sunpadh\n\nSunpadh (; also spelled Sunpad and Sunbadh) was an Iranian nobleman from the House of Karen, who incited an uprising against the Abbasid Caliphate in the 8th century.\n\nSunpadh was a Zoroastrian nobleman, who was a native of a village called Ahan in Nishapur, Khorasan. He most likely belonged to the ancient House of Karen, formerly one of the seven great families of the pre-Islamic Parthian and Sasanian eras. Khorasan had originally been a fief of the Karenids, but the family lost control of the province at the battle of Nishapur during the Arab conquest of Iran, thus forcing many Karenid nobles to withdraw to Tabaristan, where a branch of the family, the Qarinvand dynasty, had managed to withstand the Arab incursions.\n\nFollowing the betrayal and subsequent death of the Iranian general Abu Muslim by the Abbasid caliph al-Mansur (r. 754-775) in 755, the enraged Sunpadh revolted. He captured the cities of Nishapur, Qumis, and Ray, and was called \"Firuz ispahbadh\" (\"the victorious \"ispahbadh\"\"). At Ray, he seized the treasuries of Abu Muslim. Most of his supporters were from Jibal and Tabaristan—the Dabuyid ruler, Khurshid (r. 740–760), supported the anti-Abbasid rebellion of Sunpadh, and was in return given a part of Abu Muslim's treasure. \n\nAccording to Nizam al-Mulk, Ibn al-Athir, and Mirkhvand, Sunpadh swore to march on Mecca and destroy the Kaaba. However, according to Patricia Crone, this is unlikely, who says \"the idea that he should have rushed off in anger from Nishapur in order singlehandedly to bring down the caliphate and Islam is absurd.\" Other sources state that Sunpadh declared himself as a prophet, and disagreed on Abu Muslim's death, claiming to be his mediator. Sunpadh allegedly further preached that \"Abu Muslim has not died, and when Mansur meant to slay him, he chanted God's great name, turned into a white dove and flew away. Now he is standing with Mahdi and Mazdak in a castle of copper and they shall emerge by and by.\" This, however, is a misrepresentation of Sunpadh, whose intention by revolting, was most likely to remove the Muslims from power.\n\nA force of 10,000 Abbasid troops under Jahwar ibn Marrar al-Ijli was shortly sent towards Sunpadh—they clashed between Hamadan and Ray, where Sunpadh was defeated and routed. According to the historian Ibn Isfandiyar, countless of Abu Muslim's and Sunpadh's supporters were killed in the defeat that their bones were still noticeable in 912. Sunpadh then fled to Tabaristan, but was killed there by one of Khurshid's cousins, ostensibly because he had failed to show the man proper respect. It is possible, however, that the murder was instigated by Khurshid, in the hope of acquiring the remainder of Abu Muslim's treasure.\n\n"}
{"id": "44267015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44267015", "title": "TCR International Series", "text": "TCR International Series\n\nThe TCR International Series was an international touring car championship. The championship was promoted by World Sporting Consulting (WSC), founded by former World Touring Car Championship manager Marcello Lotti. It was marketed as a cost-effective spin-off of the WTCC, targeted at C-segment hatchbacks production-based touring cars. The title TCR follows the naming convention now used by the FIA to classify the cars that compete in touring car racing, with TC1 referring to the top tier as used by the FIA WTCC and TC2 referring to the legacy cars which principally compete in the FIA ETCC.\n\nOn 6 December 2017, FIA’s World Motorsport Council announced that the series will merge with World Touring Car Championship and European Touring Car Cup starting in 2018.\n\nOn 15 July Lotti revealed further details on the TCR series.\nOn the same day it was announced that the TCR series will award a Drivers' Championship title and a Teams' Championship title. The number of teams will be limited to eight and the number of competitors to twenty-four. It was also announced that the series will run alongside Formula One at selected events.<br>\nOn 21 July more details about the series became available: the race weekend format will be structured like the WTCC, with two free practice sessions and a two part qualifying session, followed by two races on Sunday. The first event would take place in Italy in March, but when a provisional calendar for the 2015 season was released on 31 October, it became clear that the first event will take place at the Sepang International Circuit on 29 March. Lotti confirmed the technical principles of the SEAT León Cup Racer, which is also set to be adopted in the Single-Make Trophy category of the European Touring Car Cup in 2015, will be used by the TCR Series.<br>\nOn 29 July former WTCC driver Pepe Oriola said in an interview with TouringCarTimes that he hopes to compete in the new series, because he was set to drive for the Onyx Race Engineering team in the 2014 WTCC season with their new Ford Fiesta TC1 car for the last part of the season, before the project was abandoned with no support for homologation from Ford.\n\nOn 15 September the TCR organisation announced the first cars, teams, regulations and events of its inaugural season in 2015. Target Competition became the first team to confirm entry in the series and will run SEAT León Eurocup cars in 2015. Onyx Race Engineering has also confirmed they are developing the Ford Focus for the championship.<br>\nA week later Paolo Coloni Racing announced plans to enter the championship in 2015. Team principal Paolo Coloni, son of F1-team founder Enzo Coloni, is known for its accomplishments in the GP2 Series in 2005 and in 2009 to 2012. The team will confirm at a later date their planned car and driver line-up.\n\nOn 31 October a provisional calendar for its inaugural season was released. It will consist of twelve weekends, four in Asia, five in Europe, two in South America and one to be announced.\n\nOn 7 November the fourth team was announced: the Swedish STCC team WestCoast Racing will join the series with three Honda Civics build by JAS Motorsport. On 20 November Liqui Moly Team Engstler announced they will participate with Volkswagen Golfs and Franz Engstler will be driving one of the VWs.\n\nOn 5 December the series was approved by the FIA and renamed TCR International Series instead of using the original TC3 International Series name.\n\nOn 27 January Marcello Lotti announced three new teams for the inaugural season: Zengő Motorsport, Proteam Racing and Campos Racing. On 13 February Jordi Oriola announced he will be driving a Target Competition SEAT at Valencia and Monza and Mikhail Grachev was confirmed on 17 February at Engstler Motorsport. In the end of February and in March almost half of all the drivers were confirmed, but just one week from the first round in Sepang Onyx Race Engineering, Paolo Coloni Racing and Proteam Racing have not confirmed a single driver. On 20 March the TCR International Series organisation announced the first TV deals for the inaugural season. On 29 May, David Sonenscher announces the TCR Thailand Series, starting from 2016.\n\nOn 15 September 2014, technical regulations for the category were announced. On 22 January 2016, minor changes were applied.\n\nEligible cars: 4/5-door vehicles\nBody shell: Reinforced production body shell; wheel arch modifications allowed to accommodate tyres\nMinimum weight: 1250 kg for cars with production gearbox, 1285 kg for cars with racing gearbox (both including the driver)\nMinimum overall length: 4.20 metres\nMaximum overall width: 1.95 metres\nEngine: Turbo-charged petrol or diesel up to 2.0-litre\nTorque: 420 Nm\nPower: 350 PS\nLubrication: Wet sump\nExhaust: Homologated catalytic converter using production parts\nTraction: On two wheels\nGearbox: Production or TCR International Series sequential; production paddle shift accepted\nFront Suspension: Production lay-out; parts free design\nRear Suspension: Original design of production car with reinforced components\nBrakes: \nWheels: Maximum dimensions of rim: 10″ x 18″\nAerodynamics:\n\nTCR Asia Series was announced on 14 August 2014 by the organisation behind the TCR series under the name TC3 Asia Series - later changed to TCR Asia Series along with the other announced series. David Sonenscher, boss of the company Motorsport Asia, will be maintaining the series. He has previously run the Asian Touring Car Series and the Porsche Carrera Cup Asia. Initially seven races were planned for 2015, but later were reduced to 5 and the final calendar was with 4. The Singapore and Thailand rounds were run together with the TCR International Series, while the rest supported the GT Asia Series calendar.\n\nIn December 2014 the Royal Automobile Club of Belgium (RACB) and Kronos Events announced the formation of the TCR Benelux Touring Car Championship. The inaugural season is set for 2016 with one-off event planned for 15 October 2015 at the Circuit Jules Tacheny Mettet. The schedule consists of seven rounds in the Benelux region, across Belgium, Netherlands and Luxembourg. Each round includes five races: a 60 minutes endurance race, with mandatory pit stop, and four 20 minutes sprint races. The starting grid for the endurance race is established by a popular vote via Facebook, through the \"Making the Grid\" application (later changed to aggregate score from the votes and the fast lap practice session with fan voting having bigger weight); sprint race 1 uses the best lap of after pit during long race to determine the starting grid, race 3 uses the best lap of before pit during long race; races 2 and 4 include a rolling start using the finishing order, respectively, of race 1 and 3.\n\nFor the 2017 season the fan voting was droped and the starting grid for the endurance race was determined by a qualifying session instead. All races were held alongside Clio Cup Benelux, but with standalone classifications for both. At the end of the season Kronos Events withdrew their support for the series.\n\nOn 12 January 2015, Marcello Lotti announced also a Chinese series planned for 2016. As for December 2015, a TCR class is confirmed as a category of the Chinese Touring Car Championship in 2016. The series was officially launched in December 2016, ahead of a five-round 2017 championship season, with the slight name change from Chinese to China.\n\nOn 31 January 2015, Automobile Club d'Italia announced the TCR category as the third division of the Campionato Italiano Turismo Endurance, also competing for the general classification of the championship. On 12 September 2015, the TCR Italian Series was relaunched as a stand-alone category for 2016.\n\nOn 6 September 2014 FullEventos announced the TC3 Portuguese Series, later renamed TCR Portuguese Series along with the rest of the series announced at the time The series will be one of the six categories of the touring class in the Campeonato Nacional de Velocidade.\n\nOn 20 December 2014 it has been announced there will be a US-based series launched in 2015 as part of the California-based United States Touring Car Championship as a promotional category, with a view to moving to a full season in 2016. There were no entries during the 2015 season.\n\nOn 5 July 2015 the Thailand series was presented to the local media. The promoter is Racing Spirit Co. Ltd., organiser of the Thailand Super Series, and the championship is planned to start in 2016.\n\nOn 16 September 2015, the German Series was launched by ADAC and Engstler Motorsport, who already run in the International Series. The new category will run in the same events as ADAC GT Masters and ADAC Formula 4 as well as Deutscher Tourenwagen Cup (formerly ADAC Procar).\n\nOn 15 October 2015, Marcello Lotti revealed plans for a European Series including one round from each TCR European championship (Italy, Spain, Germany, Portugal, Russia and Benelux), starting from 2016. On 26 February 2016, the European Trophy was launched, with six rounds (Spanish championship was excluded for not having an own series and Benelux series had two rounds). Subsequent change was made during the course of the season to include additional round from German series.\n\nFor the 2017 edition was adopted the one-off event format with two races. For 2018 it was upgraded to TCR Europe Series with 6 events, five of which would support International GT Open.\n\nOn 15 February 2016, the Campeonato de España de Resistencia confirmed that they would introduce a TCR class in their championship. The championship calendar included five race weekends held across Spain. \n\nOn 4 May 2016, Marcello Lotti launched the TCR Las Américas Series. The series would begin in Mexico in October supporting the 2016 Mexican Grand Prix and then go on to visit the United States in November, the Dominican Republic in December, Guatemala in January 2017, Costa Rica in February, with both Colombia and the season finale in Venezuela being visited in March. However, no races were held in neither 2016 or 2017. \n\nOn 28 November 2017 the series promoters announced a re-launch, with the series set for a 2018 début. With races scheduled to be held in the Dominican Republic and Mexico.\n\nOn 9 June 2016, the Scandinavian Touring Car Championship confirmed that they would switch to the TCR regulations for 2017 after racing with Silhouette cars since 2013. In 2017 the series will only race in Sweden, but a future expansion into the other Scandinavian countries is possible in the near future.\n\nOn 23 July 2016, the organizers of the 1000 kilometrų lenktynės held on the Lithuanian Palanga circuit confirmed that they would add a TCR class to the event. With the ambition of establishing a proper championship beyond 2017, racing in the Baltic countries and Poland. The TCR Baltic Trophy was then introduced as part of the Baltic Touring Car Championship.\n\nOn 8 November 2016, it was announced that the TCR Portuguese Series and TCR Spanish Series would merge, creating the TCR Ibérico Touring Car Series. The series will visit Portugal four times and Spain three times. Along with an overall title, two national titles will also be awarded.\n\nOn 15 November 2016, WSC announced that the creation of the TCR Middle East Series. The series will be officially launched on 2 December 2016 at the Bahrain International Circuit, where a media and test day will be held. The series will visit the Dubai Autodrome, Yas Marina Circuit and the Bahrain International Circuit. From 2019 onwards, this series is run by Creventic, the organisers of the 24H Endurance series.\n\nOn 6 April 2017, initial discussion about a TCR UK Series started between WSC and MSA. The series was given the go-ahead by the MSA on 7 July 2017, the series promotor will be BRSCC. The promotor is expecting about six or seven events for 2018, also confirming that there will be no grid limit. The 2018 seven round calendar was confirmed on 13 September 2017, with the series starting at the Silverstone Circuit, before going on the visit, Knockhill, Brands Hatch, Castle Combe, Oulton Park, Croft and Donington Park.\n\nOn 30 November 2017, WSC Asia and J's Consulting announced the creation of the TCR Korea Series. The series will host a test day in June 2018 before beginning the season in July 2018, the series will conclude in October 2018.\n\nOn 6 December 2017, FIA’s World Motorsport Council announced the creation of the FIA World Touring Car Cup. The new series has been officially confirmed after a deal was reached to bring the World Touring Car Championship, the TCR International Series and the European Touring Car Cup together.\n\nOn 24 January 2018, WSC Ltd. announced that an agreement had been made with Confederation of Australian Motor Sport (CAMS) for TCR Australia to begin in 2019.\n\nIn 2018, Auto Sport Switzerland will organize the TCR Swiss Trophy. It will comprise five rounds, held together with TCR Europe (Zandvoort, Assen and Monza), TCR Italy (Imola), and ADAC TCR Germany (Red Bull Ring).\n\nIt was announced by Motorsport Asia Limited that on October 10, 2018, the creation of TCR Malaysia for the beginning of the year 2019. The championship served as preparation for other championships as the TCR Asia. There are scheduled 3 rounds with 6 races in Sepang International Circuit, in supporting of GT Masters/Formula 3 Asia Winter Series and Asian Le Mans Series.\n\nIn an agreement between WSC Ltd and Japan TCR Management, will begin in 2019, the TCR Japan Series. The competition will take advantage of the success of the class in the Super Taikyu endurance series and will run on the same weekends as the Super Formula, the most important single-seater category in Japan. The agreement is valid for the next 6 years, until 2024. One of the expectations is to attract other Japanese car manufacturers for the TCR project.\n\nIn 2015 the FIA designated the TCN-2 nomenclature to the TCR regulations. This allowed the TCR-spec cars to compete in the Super 2000 class of the European Touring Car Cup alongside the older TC2 and TC2T cars used by the World Touring Car Championship. From the 2017 season ETCC began using the TCR technical rules instead of the FIA ones.\n\nOn 23 September 2015 ADAC Nordrhein and TCR Series announced that the 2016 Nürburgring 24h Race will feature a class for TCR vehicles.\n\nTCR cars are allowed to compete in 24H Series. Previous years this was alongside the GT cars, but from 2017 onwards a separate 24H Touring Car Endurance series was set up, which often (but not always) races alongside the 24H GT Endurance Series. Each within their own championship and their own podiums.\n\n17 January 2017 confirmed that the TCR will be the main class in the new racing series TC Open from the organizers of GT Open and Euroformula Open. 1 June 2017 confirmed that GT Sport postpones the TC Open for a certain period due to low number of entries. However, the championship never materialized.\n\nSince 2017, the organizers of the VLN brought TCR cars separate from the SP3 class.\n\nTCR cars are eligible to compete in the Super Taikyu Series starting from the 2017 season.\n\nThe Pirelli World Challenge allowed TCR-based cars in their TC class for the 2017 season, and will introduce a TCR-only class in 2018.\n\nIn June 2017, Officials from IMSA and World Sporting Consulting (WSC) as the rights holder for TCR today confirmed plans for the TCR class to begin competing in the IMSA Continental Tire SportsCar Challenge beginning in 2018.\nThe class will run in addition to the two existing Continental Tire Challenge classes, Grand Sport (GS) and Street Tuner (ST) in the 2018 season.\n\nSince 2017 Britcar Endurance, a UK based Endurance Championship running the Dunlop Endurance Championship have accepted TCR Cars. The current specification Cars run in class 4 and are highly competitive with TCR Cars finishing on the class podium every time they have raced.\n\nFrom the season 2018-19, the national championship happens to have a TCR class in its races. The sporting format will provide two 20-minute Qualifying sessions and two 30-minute races at each of the seven events that form the calendar; the first of them will be held at Abu Dhabi’s Yas Marina Circuit and the others in Dubai. The addition of the TCR class is one of the measures to popularize TCR in the Middle East.\n\nThese points have been based on the FIA's points system used in the FIA Formula One Championship.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20211596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20211596", "title": "Ten percent of the brain myth", "text": "Ten percent of the brain myth\n\nThe 10 percent of the brain myth is a widely perpetuated urban legend that most or all humans only use 10 percent (or some other small percentage) of their brains. It has been misattributed to many people, including Albert Einstein. By extrapolation, it is suggested that a person may harness this unused potential and increase intelligence.\n\nChanges in grey and white matter following new experiences and learning have been shown, but it has not yet been proven what the changes are. The popular notion that large parts of the brain remain unused, and could subsequently be \"activated\", rests in popular folklore and not science. Though mysteries regarding brain function remain—e.g. memory, consciousness—the physiology of brain mapping suggests that all areas of the brain have a function.\n\nOne possible origin is the reserve energy theories by Harvard psychologists William James and Boris Sidis in the 1890s who tested the theory in the accelerated raising of child prodigy William Sidis; thereafter, James told audiences that people only meet a fraction of their full mental potential, which is a plausible claim. In 1936, American writer Lowell Thomas summarized this idea (in a foreword to Dale Carnegie's \"How to Win Friends and Influence People\") by adding a falsely precise percentage: \"Professor William James of Harvard used to say that the average man develops only ten percent of his latent mental ability\". This book was not the first to use the 10 percent figure, which was already circulating within the self-help movement before then; for example, the book \"Mind Myths: Exploring Popular Assumptions About the Mind and Brain\" includes a chapter on the ten percent myth that shows a self-help advertisement from the 1929 \"World Almanac\" with the line \"There is NO LIMIT to what the human brain can accomplish. Scientists and psychologists tell us we use only about TEN PERCENT of our brain power.\"\n\nIn the 1970s, psychologist and educator Georgi Lozanov proposed the teaching method of suggestopedia believing \"that we might be using only five to ten percent of our mental capacity\". The origin of the myth has also been attributed to Wilder Penfield, the U.S.-born neurosurgeon who was the first director of Montreal Neurological Institute of McGill University.\n\nAccording to a related origin story, the ten percent myth most likely arose from a misunderstanding (or misrepresentation) of neurological research in the late 19th century or early 20th century. For example, the functions of many brain regions (especially in the cerebral cortex) are complex enough that the effects of damage are subtle, leading early neurologists to wonder what these regions did. The brain was also discovered to consist mostly of glial cells, which seemed to have very minor functions. James W. Kalat, author of the textbook \"Biological Psychology\", points out that neuroscientists in the 1930s knew about the large number of \"local\" neurons in the brain. The misunderstanding of the function of local neurons may have led to the ten percent myth. The myth might have been propagated simply by a truncation of the idea that some use a small percentage of their brains at any given time. In the same article in \"Scientific American\", John Henley, a neurologist at the Mayo Clinic in Rochester, Minnesota states: \"Evidence would show over a day you use 100 percent of the brain\".\n\nAlthough parts of the brain have broadly understood functions, many mysteries remain about how brain cells (i.e., neurons and glia) work together to produce complex behaviors and disorders. Perhaps the broadest, most mysterious question is how diverse regions of the brain collaborate to form conscious experiences. So far, there is no evidence that there is one site for consciousness, which leads experts to believe that it is truly a collective neural effort. Therefore, as with James's idea that humans have untapped cognitive potential, it may be that a large number of questions about the brain have not been fully answered.\n\nNeurologist Barry Gordon describes the myth as false, adding, \"we use virtually every part of the brain, and that (most of) the brain is active almost all the time.\" Neuroscientist Barry Beyerstein sets out seven kinds of evidence refuting the ten percent myth:\n\nIn debunking the ten percent myth, Knowing Neurons editor Gabrielle-Ann Torre writes that using one hundred percent of one's brain would not be desirable either. Such unfettered activity would almost certainly trigger an epileptic seizure. Torre writes that, even at rest, a person likely uses as much of his or her brain as reasonably possible through the default mode network, a widespread brain network that is active and synchronized even in the absence of any cognitive task. Thus, \"large portions of the brain are never truly dormant, as the 10% myth might otherwise suggest.\"\n\nSeveral books, films, and short stories have been written closely related to this myth. They include the movie \"Flight of the Navigator\", the novel \"The Dark Fields\", its film adaptation, the 9th book (\"White Night\") of Jim Butcher's book series \"The Dresden Files\", the \"Limitless\" film (claiming 20 percent rather than the typical 10 percent), the shōnen manga \"Psyren\", and the 2014 film \"Lucy\", all of which operate under the notion that the rest of the brain could be accessed through use of a drug. \"Lucy\", in particular, depicts a character who gains increasingly godlike abilities once she surpasses 10 percent, though the film suggests that 10 percent represents brain capacity at a particular time rather than permanent usage.\n\nThe myth was \"busted\" on a 27 October 2010 episode of \"MythBusters\". The hosts used magnetoencephalography and functional magnetic resonance imaging to scan the brain of someone attempting a complicated mental task, and found that over 10%, as much as 35%, was used during the course of their test.\n\nThe 10 percent brain myth occurs frequently in advertisements, and in entertainment media it is often cited as if it were fact.\n\nSome New Age proponents propagate the \"ten percent of the brain\" belief by asserting that the \"unused\" ninety percent of the human brain is capable of exhibiting psychic powers and can be trained to perform psychokinesis and extra-sensory perception. There is no scientifically verified body of evidence supporting the existence of such powers.\n\nIn 1980, Roger Lewin published an article in \"Science\", \"Is Your Brain Really Necessary?\", about studies by John Lorber on cerebral cortex losses. He reports the case of a Sheffield University student who had a measured IQ of 126 and passed a Mathematics Degree but who had hardly any discernible brain matter at all since his cortex was extremely reduced by hydrocephalus. The article led to the broadcast of a Yorkshire Television documentary of the same title, though it was about a different patient who had normal brain mass distributed in an unusual way in a very large skull.\n\n"}
{"id": "2566321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2566321", "title": "The Confidence-Man", "text": "The Confidence-Man\n\nThe Confidence-Man: His Masquerade, first published in New York on April Fool's Day 1857, is the ninth book and final novel by American writer Herman Melville. The book was published on the exact day of the novel's setting. \"The Confidence-Man\" portrays a \"Canterbury Tales\"–style group of steamboat passengers whose interlocking stories are told as they travel down the Mississippi River toward New Orleans. Scholar Robert Milder notes: \"Long mistaken for a flawed novel, the book is now admired as a masterpiece of irony and control, though it continues to resist interpretive consensus.\" After the novel's publication, Melville turned from professional writing and became a professional lecturer, mainly addressing his worldwide travels, and later for nineteen years a federal government employee.\n\nThe novel's title refers to its central character, an ambiguous figure who sneaks aboard a Mississippi steamboat on April Fool's Day. This stranger attempts to test the confidence of the passengers, whose varied reactions constitute the bulk of the text. Each person, including the reader, is forced to confront that in which he places his trust.\n\nThe novel is written as cultural satire, allegory, and metaphysical treatise, dealing with themes of sincerity, identity, morality, religiosity, economic materialism, irony, and cynicism. Many critics have placed \"The Confidence-Man\" alongside Melville's \"Moby-Dick\" and \"Bartleby, the Scrivener\" as a precursor to 20th-century literary preoccupations with nihilism, existentialism, and absurdism.\n\nThe work includes presumed satires of 19th century literary figures: Mark Winsome is based on Ralph Waldo Emerson while his \"practical disciple\" Egbert is Henry David Thoreau; Charlie Noble is based on Nathaniel Hawthorne; Edgar Allan Poe inspired a beggar in the story.\n\nThe novel was turned into an opera by George Rochberg; it was premiered by the Santa Fe Opera in 1982, but was not held to be a success.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52957931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52957931", "title": "The World of Anna Sui", "text": "The World of Anna Sui\n\nThe World of Anna Sui was an exhibition housed at London's Fashion and Textile Museum from 26 May to 1 October 2017.\n\nThe exhibition was curated by the museum's head curator Dennis Nothdruft and focused on the effect Sui's work has had on the history of fashion design. The exhibit featured over 100 looks from the Sui’s archive, spanning the entirety the designer's career from 1981 to 2017. It also marked the first time an American fashion designer had been the feature of a retrospective exhibit in the United Kingdom. One key theme of the exhibition was the exploration of national identity through the medium of fashion and textiles.\n\n"}
{"id": "38049662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38049662", "title": "Tokbergen Abiyev", "text": "Tokbergen Abiyev\n\nTokbergen Abiyev () is a Kazakh journalist. An editor of the paper \"Zakon i Pravosudiye\", an Astana-based newspaper which specializes in documenting government corruption, he went missing on 20 December 2012, just hours after he announced to the Kazakh media that he had a sensational news report about to be published. Abiyev reappeared on 4 January 2013.\n\nAbiyev spent July 2008 to May 2011 in jail, after being convicted of bribing a representative of the Agency of the Republic of Kazakhstan for Fighting Economic and Corruption Crimes (Financial Police), with the intent of obtaining information on judicial law enforcement agents. He claimed his arrest was linked to his editorial position at \"Zakon i Pravosudie\".\n\nOn 20 December, Abiyev sent an email to fellow journalists stating:\n\nHe went on to explain the news conference, titled \"The corrupt must be jailed\" would expose despotism and corruption in Astana. At approximately 10 pm Abiyev told co-worker Andrey Taranov that he was leaving to collect information for the next day's event, and that he would soon return, but did not.\n\nReporters Without Borders claims there is \"little doubt\" that Abiyev's disappearance is connected with the planned press release, and has stated they are \"very worried\" about the situation. The case has been compared to that of his former colleague, Oralgaisha Omarshanova, who has been missing since 2007. She disappeared while investigating links between the murder of a fallen former manager of Kazakhmys and what the government claims was an unrelated mob attack on the family of his assailant.\n\nOn 4 January 2013, Abiyev reappeared, stating that \"he had staged his abduction in order to draw the attention of both the public and government to his fight against corruption.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "8420007", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8420007", "title": "Town Police Clauses Act 1847", "text": "Town Police Clauses Act 1847\n\nThe Town Police Clauses Act 1847 is an Act of the Parliament of the United Kingdom (10 & 11 Vict c. 89). The statute remains in force and is frequently used by local councils to close roads to allow public events such as processions or street parties to take place. The Act is also used to regulate the local hackney carriage, taxi and private-hire trade in many areas. It deals with a range of street obstructions and nuisances, for example, it makes it illegal to perform certain actions in a public street or other thoroughfare, such as hanging washing, beating carpets, and flying kites. Historically, it was highly significant legislating against indecent exposure, indecent acts, obscene publications, and prostitution.\n\nIn 1847, the House of Commons Select Committee on Private Bills presented a report. In 1842 to 1843, the average number of Private Bills passed was 161, rising to an average of 347 from 1845 to 1846. By 21 July 1847, the House of Commons, 490 petition for Private Bill that year. Already in place, resulting from early reports by the select committee new mechanisms were in place to deal more efficiently with Private Bills.\n\nNoting was that much of the business the House of Commons was dealing with were numerous private bills, which due to the clauses they contained, were essentially public bills. Drawing up Private Bills to deal with public functions had consequences. The select committee wrote,\n\nTo provide uniformity in legislation in different geographical areas, to reduce the number of private bills about public functions, and to reduce expense, the select committee proposed eight public acts, each dealing with a different topic:\n\n\nThe police legislation was enacted as the Town Police Clauses Act 1847.\n\nThe original Act covered six areas,\n\nMany clauses of the act are still in force; these are provisions dealing with\n\n\nThe act is still relevant to policing the highway. Many offences in the act relating to nuisance and obstruction in the street, and the act is also a means of regulating road closures for special events.\n\nThe law controls the use of fireworks, and the wanton discharge of firearms in the street. A significant role is the licensing of hackney carriages. It also prohibits the wanton furious driving of a horse and carriage in the street. A role of the Act is to regulate peoples' behaviour. It remains an offence to be disorderly or insulting in a police station.\n\nUntil 2003, the Act was one piece of legislation against prostitution in a range of premises, including hotels. Although superseded by other laws a conviction for indecency, deriving from the Act, is on a list of offences which can be used to identify those who present a risk, or potential risk, to children.\n\n\nTown Police Clauses Act 1847 (as enacted)\n\nTown Police Clauses Act 1847 (as currently in force, published on legislation.gov.uk)\n"}
{"id": "22326872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22326872", "title": "Triplemanía XII", "text": "Triplemanía XII\n\nTriplemanía XII was the twelfth Triplemanía professional wrestling show promoted by AAA. The show took place on June 20, 2004 in Naucalpan, Mexico like the previous year’s event. The Main event featured a \"Lucha de Apuestas\" \"Mask vs. mask\" match between La Parka and Cibernético.\n\nIn early 1992 Antonio Peña was working as a booker and storyline writer for Consejo Mundial de Lucha Libre (CMLL), Mexico's largest and the world's oldest wrestling promotion, and was frustrated by CMLL's very conservative approach to \"lucha libre\". He joined forced with a number of younger, very talented wrestlers who felt like CMLL was not giving them the recognition they deserved and decided to split from CMLL to create Asistencia Asesoría y Administración, later known simply as \"AAA\" or Triple A. After making a deal with the \"Televisa\" television network AAA held their first show in April 1992. The following year Peña and AAA held their first Triplemanía event, building it into an annual event that would become AAA's Super Bowl event, similar to the WWE's WrestleMania being the biggest show of the year. The 2004 Triplemanía was the 12th year in a row AAA held a Triplemanía show and the 17th overall show under the Triplemanía banner.\n\nThe Triplemanía XII show featured six professional wrestling matches with different wrestlers involved in pre-existing scripted feuds, plots and storylines. Wrestlers were portrayed as either heels (referred to as \"rudos\" in Mexico, those that portray the \"bad guys\") or faces (\"técnicos\" in Mexico, the \"good guy\" characters) as they followed a series of tension-building events, which culminated in a wrestling match or series of matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "3017748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3017748", "title": "Types of fiction with multiple endings", "text": "Types of fiction with multiple endings\n\nMultiple endings refer to a case in entertainment where the story could end in different ways.\n\n\n\n\nDVDs may include an alternate ending as a special feature. These are usually not considered canon.\n\nFilms which include multiple endings within the main cut of the film:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23237433", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23237433", "title": "Victoria Ska Fest", "text": "Victoria Ska Fest\n\nThe Victoria Ska Festival aka Ska Fest is a music festival that takes place every summer in Victoria British Columbia, Canada. The festival is organized and executed by the Victoria BC Ska Society, a non-profit organization, and over 200 volunteers. It is the longest running ska festival in North America.\n\nThe first Victoria Ska Festival was a one-day event on August 12, 2000 at Market Square, Victoria. By 2012 it had grown into a five-day event, spanning multiple venues, and attracting 10,000 attendees over the course of the festival. Past notable headliners include Toots and the Maytals, Ky Mani Marley, Skatalites, Dub FX, Easy Star All Stars, and Fishbone.\n\nThe event was first organaized by Dane Roberts to complete a practical term towards his degree at University of Victoria. The first festival featured The Scofflaws, King Django, Chris Murray and Pressure Cooker.\n\n2010 saw the festival expand into other media platforms by incorporating a \"Sights and Stories art Exhibit\" featuring recorded audio and visual documents from community members regarding the festival.\n\n2011 marked the 12th anniversary of the festival and featured a return to Market Square and an expanded schedule, making the festival 5 days long. The expansion of media platforms increased with the introduction of the Rocksteady Collective. This feature included live body painting, exclusive or unique performances and workshops with artists, as well as interactive art canvases allowing patrons to create their own Ska & Reggae Fest memories. Since its inclusion in 2011, the Rocksteady Collective has grown to host its own series of concerts during the festival, as well as hosting culinary arts and burlesque dancing, in addition to remaining the visual arts component of the festival.\n\nThe 18th annual Victoria Ska Festival will be held June 14-18, with headline shows at their marquee venue at Ship Point in Victoria's Inner Harbour with evening concerts hosted at various locations around the downtown core.\n\nXVIII - 2017 - Booker T. Jones, Tarrus Riley, Dean Fraser, Blak Soil Band, The Black Seeds, Mad Caddies, The Skints, Jah9, Mike Love, Keith & Tex, Skampida, Perro Bravo, La Banda Skavalera, Shauit, The Boom Booms, BURNT, Los Furios, Roots Roundup, Batuque Axé, Tonye, Dope Soda, Everybody Left, Illvis Freshly, Entangados, SweetLeaf, Down North, The New Groovement, Caleb Hart & The Royal Youths, Mistica, Rusty Zinn, Jon Middleton, Out Of Control Army, The Blackwood Kings, The Party On High Street, Boomshack, Tank Gyal, The Om Sound, Cheko & The Lion Rockers, Railtown Sound System, Yellowsky, Ostwelve, Dockside Green \n\nXVII - 2016 - Toots & The Maytals, Dub FX, The Black Seeds, Western Standard Time Orchestra, Tequila Mockingbird Orchestra, Orquestra Brasiliera de Jamaicana, Amy Winehouse Extravaganza, Mikey Dangerous, Dope Soda, Ninjaspy, The Leg-Up Program, The Fabulous LoLo, Bocce Avocado, Entangados, Illvis Freshly, Tasman Jude, Skarate Kid, SweetLeaf, Blackberry Wood, DJ Dubconscious, Mud Funk, The Party On High Street, BOUSADA, The Sentiments, More Than Mayhem, Mr. Fantastik, The Phonosonics, Mt. Eliah\n\nXVI - 2015 - Hepcat, Morgan Heritage, Third World, The Slackers, Stickybuds, Mustard Plug, Mindil Beach, Dubmatix, Keith & Tex, Clinton Fearon, Kobo Town, De Bruces A Mi, The Real McKenzies, House of Shem, Dope Soda, Kutapira, Tasman Jude, The Leg Up Program, Hillside Hooligans, Arise Roots, DJ Dubconcious, Def3, Whitey, Downtown Mischief, Tank Gyal, Dia-Nos, Sweetleaf, Ydna Murd, Boomshack, The Boom Booms, MC Unite!, Kristie McCracken, Ali & The Budz, Blackwood Kings, DJ Anger, DJ Su Comandante Espinoza \n\nXV - 2014 - Shaggy, Lynval Golding, Fishbone, Barrington Levy, The Aggrolites, Los Rastrillos, Providencia, The Expanders, Zvuloon Dub System, Kobo Town, Burnt, Giraffe Aftermath, Bananafish Dance Orchestra, Hillside Hooligans, Brave New Waves, Mad Bomber Society, Everybody Left, SweetLeaf, Georgetown Orbits, The Skinny, Downtown Mischief, Blackwood Kings, The Brass Action, The Skinny, \n\nXIV - 2013 - Mos Def, Mad Caddies, Dub FX, Tanya Stephens, Katchafire, Planet Smashers, Sierra Leone's Refugee All Stars, Blitz the Ambassador, The Debonaires, The Rocksteady Seven, The Resignators, Suburban Legends,J Boog, Jon Middleton, JK and the Relays, Bananafish Dance Orchestra, Giraffe Aftermath, Sweetleaf, Bocce Avocado, Dope Soda, Los Furios, Hillside Hooligans, Ponderosas, Rocky Rebel Mountain Music, The Chantrelles, DJ Su Commandante, Aarandhna.\n\nXIII - 2012 - Toots and the Maytals, The Pietasters, Katchafire, Clinton Fearon and the Boogie Brown Band, Larry and His Flask, Ninjaspy, Burnt, Leroy \"Heptone\" Sibbles, Tequila Mockingbird Orchestra, Adham Shaikh, Blitz the Ambassador, La Pobreska, Mad Bomber Society, Dope Soda, Easy Big Fella, The Boom Booms, The Delirians, Mindil Beach Markets, Danny Rebel and the KGB, Hillside Hooligans, Blackberry Wood, Rocky Mountain Rebel Music, Sola Rosa, Rude City Riot, Heads Hang Heavy, Monkey, Bananafish Dance Orchestra, Natural Flavas, Bachaco, Los Furios, Giraffe Aftermath, DJ Su Comandante, Whitey, Step Back Dave, Tuff Jelly, Forecast\n\nXII - 2011 - Ky-Mani Marley, Gramps Morgan, The Planet Smashers, The Resignators, Mama Pulpa, Hillside Hooligans, Kae Sun, Everybody Left, Gaudi (musician), Ken Boothe, Jon and Roy, Chris Murray, The Ivy League Brawlers, Natural Flavas, The Afterbeat, Micro Bongo Soundsystem, Bananafish Dance Orchestra, The Klaxon, Giraffe Aftermath, Brave New Waves, The Novamatics, Rocky Mountain Rebel Music, DJ Frame, Mobadass\n\nXI - 2010 - Fishbone, The Black Seeds, Cherry Poppin' Daddies, The Aggrolites, Katchafire, Easy Big Fella (reunion), Los Kung-Fu Monkeys, Skampida, One Shot Left, The Israelites, The Shane Philip Tree, Brave New Waves, Danny Rebel & KGB, The Valuables, The Beatdown, The Resignators, Big Reds, Rocky Mountain Rebel Music\n\nX - 2009 - Mighty Mighty Bosstones, The Slackers, Chris Murray, Voodoo Glow Skulls, La Severa Matacera, Los Rastrillos, One Drop (reunion), The Hoochy Girls (reunion), Georgetown Orbits, Tequilla Mockingbird Orchestra, Jah Cutta and Determination, Subatomic Sound System, Vic Ruggiero, Brave New Waves, Dread Daze, The Fabulous Lo Lo, Greg Crowe & the Scarlet Union, The Kiltlifters, Los Furios, Maskatesta, Rude City Riot, Stepper, Rocky Mountain Rebel Music\n\nIX - 2008 - Skatalites, Easy Star All Stars, King Django, Los Furios, The Kiltlifters, Pato Banton & The Mystic Roots Band, The Debonaires, Current Swell, Buena Buya, Tequila Mockingbird Orchestra, Staylefish, Skavenjah, Dubmatix Sound System, Jon and Roy, Inspector, Mama Pulpa, Salon Victoria, Karmacanix, Greenlaw\n\nVIII - 2007 - Neville Staple, Mad Caddies, The Sainte Cathrines, The Real McKenzies, One Night Band & JFK, MamaPulpa, The Soul Captives, Uprite Dub Orchestra, Satori, Macaque, Current Swell, Skaboom!, The Elixxers, Subcity Dwellers, One Drop, The Rebel Spell, Los Rastrillos, The Itals, Paapa Wastik, Arbutus Trio, The Drastics, Tequila Mockingbird Orchestra\n\nVII - 2006 - Junior Reid, The Aggrolites, La Severa Matacera, The Kiltlfters, DJ Salamander, One Drop, Wednesday Night Heroes, Cambridge, Barrington Levy, The Next Best Thing, Subcity Dwellers, The Real Deal, The Wedgewoods, Georgetown Orbits\n\nVI - 2005 - Long Beach Short Bus, Fishbone, Mad Bomber Society, Los Furios, Victor Rice, Western Conference, Those Rapskallions, DJ Skip, The Makeshift Heroes, One Drop, The Allentons, Afterbeat\n\nV - 2004 - Stangejah Cole, Dr. Ring Ding, King Django, Eastern Standard Time, The Debonaires, Westbound Train, General Rudie, One Drop, The Kiltlifters, Califfo De Luxe, V.I.S.A. Ska Jazz Orchestra, Greg Milka Crowe, The Hoochy Girls, Los Furios, The Operators, The Soul Captives, Monkey, Ten Too Late, Uprite Dub Orchestra, The Debonaires, Westbound Train, General Rubie, The Kiltlifters\n\nIV - 2003 -The Slackers, The Kingpins, Chris Murray, The Aggrolites, |One Drop, JFK & the Conspirators, The Kiltlifters, Los Furios, The Afterbeat, DJ Skip, The Operators, The Bloodwarmers, The Hoodwinks, Zsolt Sandor & Christian Stevenson, Chris Murray, Esquimalt Jazz Ensemble Grads, DJ Jebus\n\nIII - 2002 -The Hoodwinks, The Abolitionists, The Kiltlifters, Dub Freque, The Pietasters, Pressure Cooker, Easy Big Fella, The Abolitionists, General Rudie, Street Prophets Union\n\nII - 2001 - Street Prophet Union, The Bloodwarmers, Chocomo Sound, The Kiltlifters, Two and a Half White Guys, Mad Bomber Society, Easy Big Fella, NY Ska Jazz Ensemble\n\nI - 2000 - The Scofflaws, King Django, Chris Murray, Pressure Cooker, Monkey Spanker, Chocomo Sound, Skanky Crackdown, The Bloodwarmers\n\n"}
{"id": "2251346", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2251346", "title": "Willie Clancy Summer School", "text": "Willie Clancy Summer School\n\nThe Willie Clancy Summer School (Irish \"Scoil Samhraidh Willie Clancy\") is Ireland's largest traditional music summer school held annually since 1973 in memory of the uilleann piper Willie Clancy. During the week, nearly a thousand students from every part of the world attend daily classes taught by experts in Irish music and dance. In addition, a full program of lectures, recitals, dances (céilithe) and exhibitions are run by the summer school.\n\nAll events happen in the town Milltown Malbay, in County Clare, on the west coast of Ireland, during the week beginning with the first Saturday of July. The weekly registration includes six classes, all lectures and recitals (except the Saturday concert) and reduced price admission to céilithe. Lectures, recitals, concert and céilithe are open to the public.\n\nFounded by a committee of local people, after the death of their friend and neighbour Willie Clancy, at a young age, in early 1973. The group included Paddy McMahon, Paddy Malone, Micheal O Friel, Junior Crehan, Martin Talty, Sean Reid, JC Talty and Jimmy Ward. These were later joined by Muiris Ó Rócháin (moved from Kerry 1971), Peadar O'Loughlin (Kilmaley) and after the first ten years of the school Eamonn McGivney and Harry Hughes.\n\nThe school has a fine reputation as an event where Irish traditional music can be learned and practised by all. The school was founded with the idea that music could be learned outside of the strictures of competition or borders. Students are children or teenagers as well as adults. All are mixed within classes according to level of musicianship on a particular instrument. It is possible during the week to attend activities as different as reed making workshops for pipes, as well as concertina classes, for example.\n\nClasses are held in different venues: schools, hotels, and private houses. Depending on the student's wishes, it is possible to change teachers during the week. Teachers are chosen for their expertise and many are renowned exponents of Irish music and song.\n\n\"Craic agus ceol\": \"fun and music\" in Irish, is a frequent description for the atmosphere. During the week, crowds come to Milltown Malbay solely for informal playing, or to listen to traditional Irish music in all kinds of venues - pubs, kitchens, and streets. This audience does not necessarily attend classes. \n\n\n"}
