{"id": "37732991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37732991", "title": "\"Good day, fellow!\" \"Axe handle!\"", "text": "\"Good day, fellow!\" \"Axe handle!\"\n\nGood Day, Fellow!' 'Axe Handle! (Norwegian: \"God dag, mann!\" \"Økseskaft!\") is a Norwegian folktale, collected by Asbjørnsen and Moe.\n\nA deaf or hard of hearing ferryman has a wife, two sons and a daughter. They fritter away all their money, and leave him to pay the bill when their credit runs out.\n\nHe sees the bailiff coming in the distance and decides to be clever and prepare his answers ahead of time. He reasons that the first thing the man will ask will be about what he is carving. He will say that it is an axe handle. He thinks that the other questions will be about the length of the axe handle, his ferry, his mare and the way to the cowshed.\n\nHowever, the first thing the bailiff says is \"Good day, fellow!\" He replies \"Axe handle!\", thinking himself clever.\n\nNext the bailiff asks how far it is to the inn. \"Up to this knot!\" he replies, pointing to the axe handle.\n\nThe bailiff shakes his head and stares at him.\n\n\"Where is your wife, man?\" he says.\n\n\"I'm going to tar her,\" says the ferryman. \"She's lying on the beach, cracked at both ends.\"\n\n\"Where is your daughter?\"\n\n\"Oh, she's in the stable, big with foal,\" he says, still thinking himself clever.\n\nThe bailiff finally gets angry with him and shouts, \"Go to the devil, fool that you are!\"\n\n\"Oh, it's not far away, when you're over the hill, you're almost there,\" says the man.\n\nThe phrase \"Goddag mann, økseskaft!\" (Good day fellow axe handle) has become a common idiom for a non sequitur, not just in Norway but also the rest of Scandinavia (\"Goddag, yxskaft!\" in Swedish, \"Goddag mand, økseskaft!\" in Danish and \"Hyvää päivää, kirvesvartta!\" in Finnish).\n\nThe folktale was later published in the widely used Swedish elementary school book \"\" by Anna Maria Roos in 1912.\n\nA similar tale appears in a 1985 collection of folktales given an erotic twist, by Erik Høvring.\n\n"}
{"id": "37462354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37462354", "title": "'Ali Akbar Khata'i", "text": "'Ali Akbar Khata'i\n\nʿAli Akbar Khata'i (modern ; \"fl.\" ca. 1500-1516) was an early 16th-century Middle Eastern or Central Asian traveler and writer. Although there is no certainty about his origin, we know that by 1515 he came to (or returned to) Istanbul, where he wrote \"Ḵeṭāy-nāma\", which likely was the first ever book about the Ming China written on the European continent. His work, originally written in Persian, was later translated into Turkish, and became influential in the Turkish- and Persian-speaking Muslim world.\n\nAs with other Middle Eastern personages, there are a great number of ways to transcribe 'Ali Akbar's name. For example, \"Encyclopedia Iranica\" uses the spelling ʿAlī Akbar Ḵeṭāʾī.\n\nNothing much is known for sure about 'Ali Akbar's origin and early life. While he created his book in Istanbul, he may have been born elsewhere in the Islamic World - perhaps, as Aly Mazahéri suggested, based on textual references, even as far as in Transoxania (Bukhara).\n\nSome researchers think that ʿAlī Akbar's name may indicate his Shi'ite origin. However, his text praises the Four Righteous Caliphs (venerated by the Sunnis), so even if born and raised a Shi'ite, he must have changed his religious affiliation due to the changing political situation.\n\nʿAlī Akbar is thought to have been a merchant by some authors. He refers to himself as a \"qalandar\" (dervish) a few times in his book; however, this may be just a figurative expression, emphasizing his humbleness, rather than a literal description of a membership in a dervish order.\n\nThe epithet \"Khata'i\" in ʿAli Akbar's name means \"of China\", presumably referring to him having traveled to and lived in China. \nWhile it is usually thought that at least some of the material in \"Khataynameh\" is based on the author's first hand experiences in China, at least one scholar of \"Khataynameh\" - Lin Yih-Min, who translated the book into modern Turkish - believes that ʿAlī Akbar (much like Juan González de Mendoza and perhaps Marco Polo) did not actually travel to China, and his work is thus completely based on others' reports.\n\nʿAlī Akbar's \"Khataynameh\" (\"The Book of China\"), written in Persian, was completed in 1516 in Istanbul, and issued in 1520.\n\nʿAlī Akbar's work, also known as \"Kanun-name\", was translated into Ottoman Turkish in 1582. His work was used by later Turkish authors; in particular, it was one of the main sources of information on China used by Katip Çelebi in his \"Jihān-numā\", along with an earlier work by a Ghiyāth al-dīn Naqqāsh. As modern researchers note, Ghiyāth al-dīn's and 'Ali Akbar's accounts, in a way, complemented each other, as the two authors saw Ming China from different aspects: Ghiyāth al-dīn came to the court of the Ming Yongle Emperor as a member of an official delegation from the Timurid ruler Shah Rukh, and much of his report is focused on court and diplomatic events; on the other hand, 'Ali Akbar, who, as Ildikó Bellér-Hann surmises, may have been a merchant, gives a much better view of the country's everyday life.\n\nThree chapters of the \"Khataynameh\" were translated into French by Charles Schefer and published in 1883, along with the Persian original.\n\n"}
{"id": "6061010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6061010", "title": "-yne", "text": "-yne\n\nIn chemistry, the suffix -yne is used to denote the presence of a triple bond.\n\nThe suffix follows IUPAC nomenclature, and is mainly used in organic chemistry. However, inorganic compounds featuring unsaturation in the form of triple bonds may be denoted by substitutive nomenclature with the same methods used with alkynes, i.e., the name of the\ncorresponding saturated hydride is modified by replacing the \"-ane\" ending with \"-yne\". \"-diyne\" is used when there are two triple bonds, and so on. The position of unsaturation is indicated by a numerical locant immediately preceding the \"-yne\" suffix, or 'locants' in the case of multiple triple bonds. Locants are chosen to be as low as possible. \"-yne\" is also used as an infix to name substituent groups that are triply bound to the parent compound.\n\nThis suffix arose as a collapsed form of the end of the word \"acetylene\". The final \"-e\" disappears if it is followed by another suffix that starts with a vowel.\n\n"}
{"id": "4454006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4454006", "title": "2TM", "text": "2TM\n"}
{"id": "24185321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24185321", "title": "Ajeet Cour", "text": "Ajeet Cour\n\nAjeet Cour (born 1934) is a Punjabi Indian writer. She has written novels and short stories in the Punjabi language on social-realist themes such as the experience of women in relationships and their position in society. She received the Sahitya Akademi Award in 1985 and the civilian honour of Padma Shri in 2006.\n\nAjeet Cour was born in the family of S. Makhan Singh in 1934 in Lahore. She had her early education there. After the partition, her family came to Delhi, where she earned an M.A. (Economics).\n\n\n\nAll Punjabi Books Of Ajit Kaur\n"}
{"id": "1863264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1863264", "title": "Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius", "text": "Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\n\nWritten in Syriac in the late seventh century, the Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius shaped and influenced Christian eschatological thinking in the Middle Ages. Falsely attributed to Methodius of Olympus, a fourth century Church Father, the work attempts to make sense of the Islamic Conquest of the Mediterranean world. The \"Apocalypse\" is noted for incorporating numerous aspects of Christian eschatology such as the invasion of Gog and Magog, the rise of the Antichrist, and the tribulations that precede the end of the world.\n\nThe \"Apocalypse\", however, adds a new element to Christian eschatology: the rise of a messianic Roman emperor. This element would remain in Christian apocalyptic literature until the end of the medieval period. Translations into Greek, Latin, Slavonic, Arabic, and other languages from the early eighth century onwards would facilitate the \"Apocalypse\"’s influence.\n\nThe \"Apocalypse\" is attributed to Methodius of Olympus in the Syriac text, of Patara in the Greek, both of whom lived in the fourth century. In all likelihood, however, the text was written in the seventh century by an unnamed Christian cleric, hence the moniker of Pseudo-Methodius, who was most likely of the Jacobite, Chalcedonian, or Melkite branch of Christianity. Scholars have argued that the work was written as a contemporary to the Arab Conquests in response to the hardships faced by Christians and widespread apostasy to avoid taxations. As well, the author sees the invasion occurring as punishment from God. The text, therefore, employs historiography, geography, and apocalyptic prophecy.\n\nThe text was originally written in Syriac in Northern Syria. Early scholarship, however, lacked the original Syrian text, and so relied heavily on Greek, Latin, and Slavonic texts for study. In 1897, the scholar V. Istrin relied heavily on the Greek text and at the same time, and independently, Sackur studied the oldest Latin translations. Both of these studies ushered in the scholarly study of the \"Apocalypse\", but it was not until 1931 that the original Syriac manuscript was discovered. With this find, Michael Kmosko was able to ascertain that original \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\" to have been written in the Syriac language.\n\nThe manuscript begins with a history of the world, starting with Adam and Eve in the Garden of Eden, through to the Muslim conquests, and into the end-times. One notable feature about the work is the presence of sexuality with regards to Christian behavior in the end days—specifically discussing swinging, homosexuality, and cross-dressing as indicators of a sinful society. It is only then that the text says the “sons of Ishmael”, that is Muslims, will emerge from the desert of Ethribus to inflict God’s punishment upon the Christians who “slipped into depravity”. The \"Apocalypse\" also recounts the events that took place at the hands of Muslims in the previous decades. In invoking figures in other Christian eschatological literature, such as Gog and Magog, Pseudo-Methodius attempts to legitimize his place as a fourth century Church Father. The manuscript also notes the rise of an Emperor-Saviour figure, echoing the fourth century AD prophecy contributed to the legendary Tiburtine Sibyl. This Roman emperor will save the Christian lands from “the sons of Ishmael”, place his crown upon the cross “for the sake of the common salvation of all” thereby saving Christendom as a whole. The work is notable for its vivid description and brutality. Descriptions of drinking the blood of cattle, stabbing pregnant women, and feeding babies to animals permeate throughout the author’s work.\n\nBallard notes, however, that Pseudo-Methodius deviates from previous eschatological literature, such as \"Revelation\", in that the \"Apocalypse\" utilizes Roman emperors as agents of change. For this reason, Griffith notes, the \"Apocalypse\" marks the end of the antique era and the dawn of the Middle Ages. Guenther also notes that Pseudo-Methodius was influenced by the books \"Revelation\" and \"Daniel\", maintaining the lineage of Christian literature. This is an important feature as it shows the author was most likely a Christian cleric and was familiar with past Christian writings. By introducing new features into Christian literature while keeping core Christian beliefs and teachings intact helped to make the \"Apocalypse\" accessible to the laity, as well. Part of the \"Apocalypse\"’s influence is attributed to its ability to reflect the beliefs of Eastern Roman citizens; they are merely acting out foretold events, and mankind is bound with the fate of the empire and the capital. This, again, helped to endear the piece to a widespread Byzantine audience.\n\nRome and Sassanid Persia had been at war with one another for much of the first quarter of the seventh century. With both empires still feeling the effects of such a long series of battles, an Arab threat took advantage of the weakening empires. The Persians faced defeat west of the Euphrates in Qadisiyya in what Griffith calls “the beginning of the demise of both Roman and Persian rule for good”. This demise would continue throughout the 630s and 640s, as the Arabs conquered much of the Middle East and the Mediterranean world. In 635, Damascus fell, Jerusalem and Antioch followed in 637, Edessa in 640, Alexandria in 642, and Seleucia/Ctesiphon in 645. Three out of the five patriarchates of Roman Christendom were under Arab Muslim rule. In 674, the Ummayad Caliph Muawiyah launched a land and sea assault on Constantinople. Within three years he was defeated and turned his attention on the rest of the surviving Roman Empire, namely the Middle East, Greece, and the Balkans. As Ballard notes, Constantinople was “reduced to a small Christian enclave within an ocean of Islam.”\n\nA campaign by the new Muslim rulers was set in place in order to remove any public display of Christian symbolism through building Islamic-styled buildings and issuing coins declaring an Islamic triumph. The most dramatic of such constructions was the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem. The inscriptions on the Dome of the Rock are taken from the Quran and “proclaim the arrival of a powerful empire that was founded on pure monotheist belief.” This, as Ballard and Griffith both note, was in response to Christians believing in the trinity, and their supposed worship of the Virgin Mary and the Saints something that Muslims saw as polytheistic.\n\nTo defend themselves and without any real power or authority, Christians turned to writing. The hardships Christians faced in a Muslim territory caused a “literary awakening”, and the earliest of these texts were written in Syriac, Greek, and Arabic. Syriac writers in particular reacted to their world in apocalyptic terms – the fall of their Christian empire was continuing with each Muslim conquest and Syriac writers saw these conquests as a punishment from God. The most well-known of these texts was the \"Apocalypse\" attributed to Pseudo-Methodius.\n\nThe \"Apocalypse\" marks the end of antiquity and the beginning of the Middle Ages because of its style and influence. The document was frequently copied and readapted in order to fit the cataclysmic events that occurred in a particular area. By the early 8th century, the work was translated into Greek and then Latin and other languages. The Apocalypse was most likely translated into Latin by Petrus Monachus in Francia. The spread and influence of the \"Apocalypse\" was so far reaching that during the Mongol invasions of the 13th century, Russian Christians invoked the work of Pseudo-Methodius in order to explain the onslaught by using the historical and geographical explanations found within the text. As well, Christians believed Pseudo-Methodius had predicted the Mongols’ arrival because of their lifestyle, dietary habits, and activities. However, Pelle notes the \"Apocalypse\" was not popular in England before the Norman Conquests, despite the popularity of other eschatological literature. Of the almost twenty-four pre-twelfth century Latin manuscripts, only two were in English and none were from before 1075. With the invasion of England by the Normans, however, one of the earliest English texts to explain the invasion of “heathens” on a Christian land included the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\". The \"Apocalypse\" was invoked by Christians throughout the centuries in order to explain the turmoil they faced in their respective time and place. As well, it shaped Western Christendom’s view of Islam through the Middle Ages because of various re-adaptions and translations. With the fall of more Christian cities from the fourteenth century onwards, along with Constantinople in 1453, the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\" was invoked once again.\n\nGriffith notes, because of questions surrounding the historicity of the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\", it is easy to dismiss the piece outright. However, for the historian the \"Apocalypse\" sheds a light on the environment of the age and therefore the literature is still relevant. Furthermore, the literature is important because of the anonymity of its author. In a sense, this anonymity lends a sense of “underground literature”. Furthermore, the \"Apocalypse of Pseudo-Methodius\" allowed the population, regardless of locale, to maintain a “sense of seemingly rightful superiority” despite evidence to the contrary.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43334619", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43334619", "title": "Artaballabha Mohanty", "text": "Artaballabha Mohanty\n\nArtaballabha Mohanty, was a notable writer and literary critique.\n\nHe was born in Cuttack, Odisha. He received M.A. in Oriya literature and M.A. in Sanskrit. Then he became a professor at Ravenshaw University, Cuttack, Odisha. He was the founder of Prachi Samiti (1925-1934), a literary institution that played a key role in reshaping Oriya literature.\n\n"}
{"id": "20367790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20367790", "title": "Beacon College", "text": "Beacon College\n\nBeacon College, a private nonprofit college founded in 1989 in Leesburg, Florida, is the first accredited institution of higher learning designed with curriculum and support services to serve those students with dyslexia, ADHD, or other specific learning disabilities.\n\nBeacon College offers Associate of Arts and Bachelor of Arts degrees in Human Services, Interdisciplinary Studies, Computer Information Systems, Psychology, and Business Management. It is regionally accredited through the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools and is licensed by the Florida Department of Education.\n\nGeorge J. Hagerty has served as president since March 2013.\n\nLed by learning-disabilities advocates Dr. Marsha Glines, and Patricia and Peter Latham, a group of parents incorporated Beacon College on May 24, 1989. At the time, the Florida Department of Education approved the college's plan to introduce a focused undergraduate curriculum aligned specifically to the specialized learning and support needs of students who learn differently. Beacon awards both Associate of Arts (A.A.) and Bachelor of Arts (B.A.) degrees.\n\nIn 2003, Beacon College earned full accreditation from the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools Commission on Colleges (SACSCOC). It was reaffirmed for the full 10-year period in 2008, and again in 2017.\n\n"}
{"id": "7515627", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7515627", "title": "Blunt instrument", "text": "Blunt instrument\n\nA blunt instrument is any solid object used as a weapon, which damages its target by applying direct mechanical force, and has no penetrating point or edge, or is wielded so that the point or edge is not the part of the weapon that inflicts the injury. Blunt instruments may be contrasted with edged weapons, which inflict injury by cutting or stabbing, or projectile weapons, where the projectiles, such as bullets or arrows, are accelerated to a damaging speed.\n\nBlunt instruments typically inflict blunt force trauma, causing bruising, fractures and other internal bleeding. Depending on the parts of the body attacked, organs may be ruptured or otherwise damaged. Attacks with a blunt instrument may be fatal.\n\nSome sorts of blunt instruments are very readily available, and often figure in crime cases. Examples of blunt instruments include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "234043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=234043", "title": "C. Rajagopalachari", "text": "C. Rajagopalachari\n\nChakravarti Rajagopalachari (10 December 1878 – 25 December 1972) informally called Rajaji or C.R., was an Indian politician, independence activist, lawyer, writer, historian and statesman. Rajagopalachari was the last Governor-General of India, as India soon became a Republic in 1950. Furthermore, he was the first Indian-born governor-general, since before him the posts were held by British nationals. He also served as leader of the Indian National Congress, Premier of the Madras Presidency, Governor of West Bengal, Minister for Home Affairs of the Indian Union and Chief Minister of Madras state. Rajagopalachari founded the Swatantra Party and was one of the first recipients of India's highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna. He vehemently opposed the use of nuclear weapons and was a proponent of world peace and disarmament. During his lifetime, he also acquired the nickname 'Mango of Krishnagiri'.\n\nRajagopalachari was born in the village of Thorapalli in the Krishnagiri district of the Madras Presidency (now the Krishnagiri district of Tamil Nadu) and educated at Central College, Bangalore, and Presidency College, Madras. In 1900 he started a legal practice that in time became prosperous. On entering politics, he became a member and later President of the Salem municipality. He joined the Indian National Congress and participated in the agitations against the Rowlatt Act, joining the Non-Cooperation movement, the Vaikom Satyagraha, and the Civil Disobedience movement. In 1930, Rajagopalachari risked imprisonment when he led the Vedaranyam Salt Satyagraha in response to the Dandi March. In 1937, Rajagopalachari was elected Premier of the Madras Presidency and served until 1940, when he resigned due to Britain's declaration of war on Germany. He later advocated co-operation over Britain's war effort and opposed the Quit India Movement. He favoured talks with both Muhammad Ali Jinnah and the Muslim League and proposed what later came to be known as the \"C. R. formula\". In 1946, Rajagopalachari was appointed Minister of Industry, Supply, Education and Finance in the Interim Government of India, and then as the Governor of West Bengal from 1947 to 1948, Governor-General of India from 1948 to 1950, Union Home Minister from 1951 to 1952 and as Chief Minister of Madras state from 1952 to 1954. In 1959, he resigned from the Indian National Congress and founded the Swatantra Party, which fought against the Congress in the 1962, 1967 and 1971 elections. Rajagopalachari was instrumental in setting up a united Anti-Congress front in Madras state under C. N. Annadurai, which swept the 1967 elections. He died on 25 December 1972 at age 94.\n\nRajagopalachari was an accomplished writer who made lasting contributions to Indian English literature and is also credited with composition of the song \"Kurai Onrum Illai\" set to Carnatic music. He pioneered temperance and temple entry movements in India and advocated Dalit upliftment. He has been criticised for introducing the compulsory study of Hindi and the controversial Madras Scheme of Elementary Education in Madras State. Critics have often attributed his pre-eminence in politics to his standing as a favourite of both Mahatma Gandhi and Jawaharlal Nehru. Rajagopalachari was described by Gandhi as the \"keeper of my conscience\".\n\nRajagopalachari was born to Chakravarti Venkataryan, \"munsiff\" of Thorapalli Village and Chakravarti Singaramma on 10 December 1878 in Thorapalli, Madras Presidency. The couple already had two sons, Chakravarti Narasimhachari and Chakravarti Srinivasa.\n\nA weak and sickly child, Rajagopalachari was a constant worry to his parents who feared that he might not live long. As a young child, he was admitted to a village school in Thorapalli then at the age of five moved with his family to Hosur where Rajagopalachari enrolled at Hosur R.V.Government Boys Hr sec School. He passed his matriculation examinations in 1891 and graduated in arts from Central College, Bangalore in 1894. Rajagopalachari also studied law at the Presidency College, Madras, from where he graduated in 1897.\n\nRajagopalachari married Alamelu Mangalamma in 1897 and the couple had five children; three sons—C. R. Narasimhan, C. R. Krishnaswamy, and C. R. Ramaswami—and two daughters—Lakshmi Gandhi née C. R. and Namagiri Ammal C. R. . Mangamma died in 1916 whereupon Rajagopalachari took sole responsibility for the care of his children. His son Chakravarthi Rajagopalachari Narasimhan was elected to the Lok Sabha from Krishnagiri in the 1952 and 1957 elections and served as a member of parliament for Krishnagiri from 1952 to 1962. He later wrote a biography of his father. Rajagopalachari's daughter Lakshmi married Devdas Gandhi, son of Mahatma Gandhi while his grandsons include biographer Rajmohan Gandhi, philosopher Ramchandra Gandhi and former governor of West Bengal Gopalkrishna Gandhi.\n\nRajagopalachari's interest in public affairs and politics began when he commenced his legal practice in Salem in 1900. At the age of 28, he joined the Indian National Congress and participated as a delegate in the 1906 Calcutta session. Inspired by Indian independence activist Bal Gangadhar Tilak, he later became a member of the Salem municipality in 1911. In 1917, he was elected Chairman of the municipality and served from 1917 to 1919 during which time he was responsible for the election of the first Dalit member of the Salem municipality. In 1917, he defended Indian independence activist P. Varadarajulu Naidu against charges of sedition and two years later participated in the agitations against the Rowlatt Act. Rajagopalachari was a close friend of the founder of Swadeshi Steam Navigation Company V. O. Chidambaram Pillai as well as greatly admired by Indian independence activists Annie Besant and C. Vijayaraghavachariar.\n\nAfter Mahatma Gandhi joined the Indian independence movement in 1919, Rajagopalachari became one of his followers. He participated in the Non-Cooperation movement and gave up his law practice. In 1921, he was elected to the Congress Working Committee and served as the General Secretary of the party before making his first major breakthrough as a leader during the 1922 Indian National Congress session at Gaya when he strongly opposed collaboration with colonial administration and participation in the diarchial legislatures established by the Government of India Act 1919. While Gandhi was in prison, Rajagopalachari led the group of \"No-Changers\", individuals against contesting elections for the Imperial Legislative Council and other provincial legislative councils, in opposition to the \"Pro-changers\" who advocated council entry. When the motion was put to the vote, the \"No-changers\" won by 1,748 to 890 votes resulting in the resignation of important Congress leaders including Pandit Motilal Nehru and C. R. Das, the President of the Indian National Congress. When the Indian National Congress split in 1923, Rajagopalachari was a member of the Civil Disobedience Enquiry Committee. He was also involved in the Vaikom Satyagraha movement against untouchability during 1924–25.\n\nIn the early 1930s, Rajagopalachari emerged as one of the major leaders of the Tamil Nadu Congress. When Gandhi organised the Dandi march in 1930, Rajagopalachari broke the salt laws at Vedaranyam, near Nagapattinam, along with Indian independence activist Sardar Vedaratnam and was afterwards imprisoned by the British. He was subsequently elected President of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee. Following enactment of the Government of India Act in 1935, Rajagopalachari was instrumental in getting the Indian National Congress to participate in the 1937 general elections.\n\nThe Indian National Congress first came to power in the Madras Presidency (also called Madras Province by the British), following the Madras elections of 1937. Except for a six-year period when Madras was under the governor's direct rule, the Congress administered the presidency until India became independent on 15 August 1947. At the age of 59, Rajagopalachari won the Madras University seat and entered the Assembly as the first Premier of the Madras Presidency from the Congress party.\n\nRajagopalachari issued the Temple Entry Authorization and Indemnity Act 1939, under which restrictions were removed on Dalits and Shanars entering Hindu temples. In the same year, the Meenakshi temple at Madurai was also opened to the Dalits and Shanars. In March 1938 Rajagopalachari introduced the Agricultural Debt Relief Act, to ease the burden of debt on the province's peasant population.\n\nHe also introduced prohibition, along with a sales tax to compensate for the loss of government revenue that resulted from the ban on alcohol. As a result of the revenue decline resulting from prohibition, the Provincial Government shut down hundreds of government-run primary schools, a decision that Rajagopalachari's political opponents alleged deprived many low-caste and Dalit students of their education. His opponents also attributed casteist motives to his government's implementation of Gandhi's Nai Talim scheme into the education system.\n\nRajagopalachari's tenure as Chief Minister of Madras is largely remembered for the compulsory introduction of Hindi in educational institutions, which made him highly unpopular. This measure sparked off widespread anti-Hindi protests, which led to violence in some places and the jailing of over 1,200 men, women and children who took part in the unrest. Two protesters, Thalamuthu Nadar and Natarasan, were killed during the protests. In 1940, Congress ministers resigned in protest over the declaration of war on Germany without their consent, leaving the governor to take over the reins of the administration. On 21 February 1940 the unpopular new law on the use of Hindi was quickly repealed by the Governor of Madras. Despite its numerous shortcomings, Madras under Rajagopalachari was still considered by political historians as the best administered province in British India.\n\nSome months after the outbreak of the Second World War, Rajagopalachari resigned as premier along with other members of his cabinet in protest at the declaration of war by the Viceroy of India. Rajagopalachari was arrested in December 1940, in accordance with the Defence of India rules, and sentenced to one-year in prison. However, subsequently, Rajagopalachari differed in opposition to the British war effort. He also opposed the Quit India Movement and instead advocated dialogue with the British. He reasoned that passivity and neutrality would be harmful to India's interests at a time when the country was threatened with invasion. He also advocated dialogue with the Muslim League, which was demanding the partition of India. He subsequently resigned from the party and the assembly following differences over resolutions passed by the Madras Congress legislative party and disagreements with the leader of the Madras provincial Congress K. Kamaraj.\n\nFollowing the end of the war in 1945, elections followed in the Madras Presidency in 1946. During the last years of the war, Kamaraj was requested by Nehru, PM; Sardar Vallabbhai Patel, Home Minister; and Maulana Abul Kalam Azad to make Rajaji the Premier of Madras Presidency. Kamaraj, President of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee, was forced to make [Tanguturi Prakasam] as Chief Ministerial candidate, by the elected members, to prevent Rajagopalachari from winning. However, Rajagopalachari did not contest the elections, and Prakasam was elected.\n\nRajaji was instrumental in initiating negotiations between Gandhi and Jinnah. In 1944, he proposed a solution to the Indian Constitutional tangle. In the same year, he proposed an \"absolute majority\" threshold of 55 per cent when deciding whether a district should become part of India or Pakistan, triggering a huge controversy among nationalists.\n\nFrom 1946 to 1947, Rajagopalachari served as the Minister for Industry, Supply, Education and Finance in the Interim Government headed by Jawaharlal Nehru.\n\nWhen India and Pakistan attained independence on 15 August 1947, the British province of Bengal was partitioned into two, with West Bengal becoming part of India and East Bengal part of Pakistan. Supported by Jawaharlal Nehru, Rajagopalachari was appointed first Governor of West Bengal.\n\nDisliked by Bengalis for his criticism of the Bengali revolutionary Subhas Chandra Bose during the 1938 Tripuri Congress session, Rajagopalachari's appointment was unsuccessfully opposed by Bose's brother Sarat Chandra Bose. During his tenure as governor, Rajagopalachari's priorities were to deal with refugees and to bring peace and stability in the aftermath of the Calcutta riots. He declared his commitment to neutrality and justice at a meeting of Muslim businessmen: \"Whatever may be my defects or lapses, let me assure you that I shall never disfigure my life with any deliberate acts of injustice to any community whatsoever.\" Rajagopalachari was also strongly opposed to proposals to include areas from Bihar and Odisha as part of the province of West Bengal. One such proposal by the editor of an important newspaper led to the reply:\n\"I see that you are not able to restrain the policy of agitation over inter-provincial boundaries. It is easy to yield to current pressure of opinion and it is difficult to impose on enthusiastic people any policy of restraint. But I earnestly plead that we should do all we can to prevent ill-will from hardening into a chronic disorder. We have enough ill-will and prejudice to cope with. Must we hasten to create further fissiparous forces?\"\n\nDespite the general attitude of the Bengalis, Rajagopalachari was highly regarded and respected by Chief Minister Prafulla Chandra Ghosh and the state cabinet.\n\nFrom 10 until 24 November 1947, Rajagopalachari served as Acting Governor-General of India in the absence of the Governor-General Lord Mountbatten, who was on leave in England to attend the marriage of Princess Elizabeth to Mountbatten's nephew Prince Philip. Rajagopalachari led a very simple life in the viceregal palace, washing his own clothes and polishing his own shoes. Impressed with his abilities, Mountbatten made Rajagopalachari his second choice to succeed him after Vallabhbhai Patel, when he was to leave India in June 1948. Rajagopalachari was eventually chosen as the governor-general when Nehru disagreed with Mountbatten's first choice, as did Patel himself. He was initially hesitant but accepted when Nehru wrote to him, \"I hope you will not disappoint us. We want you to help us in many ways. The burden on some of us is more than we can carry.\" Rajagopalachari then served as Governor-General of India from June 1948 until 26 January 1950, and was not only the last Governor-General of India, but the only Indian national ever to hold the office.\n\nBy the end of 1949, an assumption was made that Rajagopalachari, already governor-general, would continue as president. Backed by Nehru, Rajagopalachari wanted to stand for the presidential election but later withdrew, due to the opposition of a section of the Indian National Congress mostly made up of North Indians who were concerned about Rajagopalachari's non-participation during the Quit India Movement.\n\nHe was elected to the Constituent Assembly from Madras. He was a part of Advisory Committee and Sub-Committee on Minorities. He debated on issues relating to rights of religious denominations.\n\nAt Nehru's invitation, in 1950 Rajagopalachari joined the Union Cabinet as Minister without Portfolio where he served as a buffer between Nehru and Home Minister Sardar Patel and on occasion offered to mediate between the two. Following Patel's death on 15 December 1950, Rajagopalachari was finally made Home Affairs Minister and went on to serve for nearly 10 months. As had his predecessor, he warned Nehru about the expansionist designs of China and expressed regret over the Tibet problem. He also expressed concern over demands for new linguistically based states, arguing that they would generate differences amongst the people.\n\nBy the end of 1951, the differences between Nehru and Rajagopalachari came to the fore. While Nehru perceived the Hindu Mahasabha to be the greatest threat to the nascent republic, Rajagopalachari held the opinion that the Communists posed the greatest danger. He also adamantly opposed Nehru's decision to commute the death sentences passed on those involved in the Telangana uprising and his strong pro-Soviet leanings. Tired of being persistently over-ruled by Nehru with regard to critical decisions, Rajagopalachari submitted his resignation on the \"grounds of ill-health\" and returned to Madras.\n\nIn the 1952 Madras elections, the Indian National Congress was reduced to a minority in the state assembly with a coalition led by the Communist Party of India winning most of the seats. Though he did not contest the election, Madras Governor Sri Prakasa appointed Rajagopalachari as Chief Minister by nomination as MLC without consulting either the Indian Prime Minister Nehru or the ministers in the Madras state cabinet. Rajagopalachari was then able to prove that he had a majority in the assembly by luring MLAs from opposition parties to join the Indian National Congress. Nehru was furious and wrote to Rajagopalachari saying \"the one thing we must avoid giving is the impression that we stick to office and we want to keep others out at all costs.\" Rajagopalachari, however, refused to contest a by-election and remained as an unelected member of the legislative council.\n\nDuring Rajagopalachari's tenure as Chief Minister, a powerful movement for a separate Andhra State, comprising the Telugu-speaking districts of the Madras State, gained a foothold. On 19 October 1952, an Indian independence activist and social worker from Madras named Potti Sriramulu embarked on a hunger strike reiterating the demands of the separatists and calling for the inclusion of Madras city within the proposed state. Rajagopalachari remained unmoved by Sriramulu's action and refused to intervene. After fasting for days, Sriramulu eventually died on 15 December 1952, triggering riots in Madras city and the Telugu-speaking districts of the state. Initially, both Rajagopalachari and Prime Minister Nehru were against the creation of linguistically demarcated states but as the law and order situation in the state deteriorated, both were forced to accept the demands. Andhra State was thus created on 1 October 1953 from the Telugu-speaking districts of Madras, with its capital at Kurnool. However, the boundaries of the new state were determined by a commission which decided against the inclusion of Madras city. Though the commission's report suggested the option of having Madras as the temporary capital of Andhra State to allow smooth partitioning of the assets and the secretariat, Rajagopalachari refused to allow Andhra State to have Madras even for a day.\n\nOn 31 May 1952, Rajagopalachari put an end to sugar rationing and followed up by abolishing control over food supplies on 5 June 1952. He also introduced measures to regulate the running of universities in the state. In 1953, he introduced a new education scheme known as the \"Modified System of Elementary Education\", which reduced schooling for elementary school students to three hours per day with students expected to learn the family vocation at home during the remainder of the day. The plan came in for sharp criticism and evoked strong protests from the Dravidian parties. The Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam dubbed the scheme \"Kula Kalvi Thittam\" or Hereditary Education Policy and attempted to organise massive demonstrations outside Rajagopalachari's house on 13 and 14 July 1953. The rising unpopularity of his government forced K. Kamaraj to withdraw his support for Rajagopalachari and on 26 March 1954, he resigned as President of the Madras Legislature Congress Party thereby precipitating new elections. During the subsequent poll held on 31 March 1954, Rajagopalachari fielded C. Subramaniam against Kamaraj. But Subramaniam could garner only 41 votes to Kamaraj's 93 and lost the elections. Rajagopalachari eventually resigned as Chief Minister on 13 April 1954, attributing the decision to poor health.\n\nFollowing his resignation as Chief Minister, Rajagopalachari took a temporary break from active politics and instead devoted his time to literary pursuits. He wrote a Tamil re-telling of the Sanskrit epic \"Ramayana\" which appeared as a serial in the Tamil magazine \"Kalki\" from 23 May 1954 to 6 November 1955. The episodes were later collected and published as \"Chakravarthi Thirumagan\", a book which won Rajagopalachari the 1958 Sahitya Academy award in Tamil language. On Republic Day 1955, Rajagopalachari was honoured with India's highest civilian award, the Bharat Ratna.\n\nRajagopalachari tendered his official resignation from the Indian National Congress and along with a number of other dissidents organised the Congress Reform Committee (CRC) in January 1957. K. S. Venkatakrishna Reddiar was elected president and the party fielded candidates in 55 constituencies in the 1957 state assembly elections, to emerge as the second largest party in Madras state with 13 seats in the legislative assembly. The Congress Reform Committee also contested 12 Lok Sabha seats during the 1957 Indian elections. The committee became a fully-fledged political party and was renamed the Indian National Democratic Congress at a state conference held in Madurai on September 28–29, 1957.\n\nOn 4 June 1959, shortly after the Nagpur session of the Indian National Congress, Rajagopalachari, along with Murari Vaidya of the newly established Forum of Free Enterprise (FFE) and Minoo Masani, a classical liberal and critic of socialist Nehru, announced the formation of the new Swatantra Party at a meeting in Madras. Conceived by disgruntled heads of former princely states such as the Raja of Ramgarh, the Maharaja of Kalahandi and the Maharajadhiraja of Darbhanga, the party was conservative in character. Later, N. G. Ranga, K. M. Munshi, Field Marshal K. M. Cariappa and the Maharaja of Patiala joined the effort. Rajagopalachari, Masani and Ranga also tried but failed to involve Jayaprakash Narayan in the initiative.\n\nIn his short essay \"Our Democracy\", Rajagopalachari explained the necessity for a right-wing alternative to the Congress by saying:\nsince... the Congress Party has swung to the Left, what is wanted is not an ultra or outer-Left [viz. the CPI or the Praja Socialist Party, PSP], but a strong and articulate Right\nRajagopalachari also insisted that the opposition must:\noperate not privately and behind the closed doors of the party meeting, but openly and periodically through the electorate.\nHe outlined the goals of the Swatantra Party through twenty one \"fundamental principles\" in the foundation document. The party stood for equality and opposed government control over the private sector. Rajagopalachari sharply criticised the bureaucracy and coined the term \"licence-permit Raj\" to describe Nehru's elaborate system of permissions and licences required for an individual to set up a private enterprise. Rajagopalachari's personality became a rallying point for the party.\n\nRajagopalachari's efforts to build an anti-Congress front led to a patch up with his former adversary C. N. Annadurai of the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam. During the late 1950s and early 1960s, Annadurai grew close to Rajagopalachari and sought an alliance with the Swatantra Party for the 1962 Madras legislative assembly elections. Although there were occasional electoral pacts between the Swatantra Party and the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam (DMK), Rajagopalachari remained non-committal on a formal tie-up with the DMK due to its existing alliance with Communists whom he dreaded. The Swatantra Party contested 94 seats in the Madras state assembly elections and won six as well as won 18 parliamentary seats in the 1962 Lok Sabha elections.\n\nIndia's use of military force against Portugal to capture the Portuguese enclave of Goa was criticised by Rajagopalachari who said of the operation and subsequent acts of international diplomacy, \"India has totally lost the moral power to raise her voice against the use of military power.\"\n\nOn 26 January 1950, the Government of India adopted Hindi as the official language of the country, but because of objections in non-Hindi-speaking areas, it introduced a provision tentatively making English the second official language on a par with Hindi for a stipulated fifteen-year period to facilitate a switch to Hindi in non-Hindi speaking states. From 26 January 1965 onwards, Hindi was to become the sole official language of the Indian Union and people in non-Hindi speaking regions were compelled to learn Hindi. This led to vehement opposition and just before Republic Day, severe anti-Hindi protests broke out in Madras State. Rajagopalachari had earlier been sharply critical of the recommendations made by the Official Languages Commission in 1957. On 28 January 1956, Rajagopalachari signed a resolution along with Annadurai and Periyar endorsing the continuation of English as the official language. At an All-India Language Conference held on 8 March 1958, he declared: \"Hindi is as much foreign to non-Hindi speaking people as English [is] to the protagonists of Hindi\". When the Anti-Hindi agitations broke out in 1965, Rajagopalachari completely reversed his 1938 support for the introduction of Hindi and took a strongly anti-Hindi stand in support of the protests, On 17 January 1965, he convened the Madras state Anti-Hindi conference in Tiruchirapalli. angrily declaring that Part XVII of the Constitution of India which declared that Hindi was the official language should \"be heaved and thrown into the Arabian Sea.\"\n\nThe fourth elections to the Madras Legislative assembly were held in February 1967. At the age of 88, Rajagopalachari worked to forge a united opposition to the Indian National Congress through a tripartite alliance between the Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam, the Swatantra Party and the Forward Bloc. The Congress party was defeated in Madras for the first time in 30 years and the coalition led by Dravida Munnetra Kazhagam came to power. C. N. Annadurai served as Chief Minister from 6 March 1967 till his death on 3 February 1969. Rajagopalachari delivered a moving eulogy to Annadurai at his funeral.\n\nThe Swatantra party also did well in elections in other states and to the Lok Sabha, the directly elected lower house of the Parliament of India. It won 45 Lok Sabha seats in the 1967 general elections and emerged as the single largest opposition party. The principal opposition party in the states of Rajasthan and Gujarat, it also formed a coalition government in Odisha and had a significant presence in Andhra Pradesh, Tamil Nadu and Bihar.\n\nIn 1971, Annadurai's successor M. Karunanidhi relaxed prohibition laws in Tamil Nadu due to the poor financial situation of the state. Rajagopalachari pleaded with him not to repeal prohibition but to no avail and as a result, the Swatantra Party withdrew its support for the state government and instead allied with the Congress, a breakaway faction of the Indian National Congress led by Kamaraj.\n\nIn January 1971, a three-party anti-Congress coalition was established by the Congress (O), Jan Sangh and the Samyukta Socialist Party then on 8 January, the national executive of the Swatantra Party took the unanimous decision to join the coalition. The dissident parties formed an alliance called the National Democratic Front and fought against the Indian National Congress led by Indira Gandhi in the 1971 Indian general elections. However, the alliance fared badly. The Swatantra Party's tally was reduced to 8 seats from 23 in the 1967 elections. The decline of the Swatantra Party was also visible in the 1971 Tamil Nadu Legislative assembly elections in which it won just 19 seats down from 27 in the 1967 elections.\n\nBy November 1972, Rajagopalachari's health had begun to decline and on 17 December the same year, a week after his 94th birthday, he was admitted to the Government Hospital, Madras suffering from uraemia, dehydration and a urinary infection. In the hospital, he was visited by Chief Minister M. Karunanidhi, V. R. Nedunchezhiyan, V. V. Giri, Periyar and other state and national leaders. Rajagopalachari's condition deteriorated in the following days as he frequently lost consciousness and he died at 5:44 pm on Christmas day, 25 December 1972 at the age of 94. His son, C. R. Narasimhan, was at his bedside at the time of his death reading him verses from a Hindu holy book. He was a widower for 56 years, and also outlived a son and both his sons-in-law.\n\nAn accomplished writer both in his mother tongue Tamil as well as English, Rajagopalachari was the founder of the Salem Literary Society and regularly participated in its meetings. In 1922, he published \"Siraiyil Tavam\" (Meditation in jail), a day-to-day account of his first imprisonment by the British from 21 December 1921 to 20 March 1922.\n\nRajagopalachari started the Tamil Scientific Terms Society in 1916, a group that coined new words in Tamil for terms connected to botany, chemistry, physics, astronomy and mathematics. At about the same time, he called for Tamil to be introduced as the medium of instruction in schools.\n\nIn 1951, he wrote an abridged retelling of the \"Mahabharata\" in English, followed by one of the \"Ramayana\" in 1957. Earlier, in 1961, he had translated Kambar's Tamil \"Ramayana\" into English. In 1965, he translated the Thirukkural into English and also wrote books on the Bhagavad Gita and the Upanishads in English as well as works on Socrates, and Marcus Aurelius in Tamil. Rajagopalachari often regarded his literary works as the best service he had rendered to the people. In 1958, he was awarded the Sahitya Akademi Award for works in the Tamil language for his retelling of the \"Ramayana\" – \"Chakravarti Thirumagan\". He was also one of the founders of the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan, an organisation dedicated to the promotion of education and Indian culture. In 1959 the Bharatiya Vidya Bhavan published his book: \"Hinduism: Doctrine and Way of Life\".\n\nApart from his literary works, Rajagopalachari also composed a devotional song \"Kurai Onrum Illai\" devoted to Lord Venkateshwara, a song set to music and a regular at Carnatic concerts. Rajagopalachari composed a benediction hymn sung by M. S. Subbulakshmi at the United Nations General Assembly in 1967.\n\nIn 1954, during US Vice-President Richard Nixon's nineteen country Asian tour, he was lectured by Rajagopalachari on the consuming emotional quality of nuclear weapons. The pair discussed spiritual life, particularly reincarnation and predestination. Nixon wrote three pages of notes recording Rajagopalachari's words, claiming in his memoirs thirty-six years later that the afternoon \"had such a dramatic effect on me that I used many of his thoughts in my speeches over the next several years.\"\n\nWhile on a tour to the United States as a member of the Gandhi Peace Foundation delegation, in September 1962 Rajagopalachari visited American President John F. Kennedy at the White House. Rajagopalachari warned Kennedy of the dangers of embarking on an arms race, even one which the US could win. At the end of the meeting Kennedy remarked \"This meeting had the most civilizing influence on me. Seldom have I heard a case presented with such precision, clarity and elegance of language\". On 1 May 1955, Rajagopalachari appealed to the Government of India to cancel receipt of aid from America if the country continued with its nuclear tests.\n\nE. M. S. Namboodiripad, a prominent Communist Party leader, once remarked that Rajagopalachari was the Congress leader he respected the most despite the fact he was also someone with whom he had the most differences. Of Rajagopalachari, Periyar, one of his foremost political rivals remarked \"he was a leader unique and unequalled, who lived and worked for high ideals\". On his death, condolences poured in from all corners of the country. Indira Gandhi, the then Prime Minister of India commented:\n\nRegarded as a pioneer of social reform, Rajagopalachari issued temple entry proclamations in the Madras Presidency and worked towards the upliftment of Dalits. He played a pivotal role in the conclusion of the Poona Pact between B. R. Ambedkar and the Indian National Congress and spearheaded the Mahabal Temple Entry program in 1938. He was a staunch advocate of prohibition and was elected Secretary of the Prohibition League of India in 1930. On assuming the premiership of the Madras Presidency, he introduced prohibition throughout the province. where it remained in vogue until its removal by M. Karunanidhi over thirty years later. Rajagopalachari was also an active member of the All India Spinners Association. and a strong opponent of \"linguistic states\", which he felt would bring anarchy to India.\n\nHe is also remembered for his literary contributions, some of which are considered modern-day classics. He frequently wrote articles for \"Kalki\" and his own journal Swarajya, of which Philip Spratt was editor.\n\nRichard Casey, Governor of Bengal from 1944 to 1946, regarded Rajagopalachari as the wisest man in India. The best possible tribute to Rajagopalachari was from Mahatma Gandhi who referred to him as the \"keeper of my conscience\". Today, his private papers are part of the Archives at the Nehru Memorial Museum & Library, at Teen Murti House, Delhi.\n\nRajagopalachari was considered one of the most able statesmen in the national arena. Critics opine that he completely failed to gauge the thoughts and feelings of the masses – his introduction of Hindi and the Madras Scheme of Elementary Education have both been extensively criticised while his pacifist stance during the Quit India Movement and his \"C. R. formula\" angered the majority of his colleagues in the Indian National Congress. P. C. Alexander, a former governor of Tamil Nadu and Maharashtra, once wrote:\n\nAlthough his popularity at the regional level fluctuated greatly, it is believed that Rajagopalachari was able to exercise his stranglehold over provincial politics mainly because he was favoured by national leaders such as Gandhi, Patel and Nehru. Critics feel that when the President of the Tamil Nadu Congress Committee K. Kamaraj and a majority of the provincial leaders turned against him in the 1940s, Rajagopalachari clung on to a position of influence in regional politics through support from his colleagues at the centre.\n\nRajagopalachari was portrayed as an \"archetypal\" Tamil Brahmin \"nemesis\" of the anti-Brahmin demagogues constituting the self-proclaimed \"Dravidian movement\". A deeply religious, pious Hindu and follower of the Vedas and Upanishads, he was \"accused\" of being \"pro-Sanskrit\" and \"pro-Hindi\", positions that had in fact long been the consensus among other Dravidian-language speaking States in India who far exceeded Tamil speakers by population. Rajagopalachari found this \"stigma\" difficult to erase despite his vehement protests against the \"imposition\" of Hindi during the Madras Anti-Hindi agitations of 1965. He was also \"accused\" of attempting to heavily \"Sanskritise\" Tamil vocabulary through the inclusion of a large number of Sanskrit-derived words in his writings.\n\n\n\nVasanthi Srinivasan, Gandhi's Conscience Keeper: C Rajagopalachari and Indian Politics (Permanent Black 2009)\n\nVasanthi Srinivasan, Gandhi's Conscience Keeper: C Rajagopalachari and Indian Politics (Permanent Black 2009)\n"}
{"id": "31809227", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31809227", "title": "Cable television franchise fee", "text": "Cable television franchise fee\n\nIn the United States cable television industry, a cable television franchise fee is an annual fee charged by a local government to a private cable television company as compensation for using public property it owns as right-of-way for its cable. In the US, cable television services are provided by private for-profit companies, cable television providers, which sign a franchise agreement with cities and counties to provide cable television to its residents. The franchise fee is set during initial negotiation of the franchise agreement, usually by a process in which the government requests bids from cable providers to serve their community. It can be renegotiated when the franchise agreement comes up for renewal, usually at intervals of 10 to 12 years. Although it is paid to a government, it is not a tax.\n\nFranchise fees are governed under Section 622 of the Cable Communications Act of 1984. Section 622, states that municipalities are entitled to a maximum of 5% of gross revenues derived from the operation of the cable system for the provision of cable services such as Public, educational, and government access (PEG) TV channels.\n\nSection 542(f) of the Communications Act says \"A cable operator may designate that portion of a subscriber's bill attributable to the franchise fee as a separate item on the bill.\" Most cable providers choose to list this item on customer's bills, so every customer will see it each time they pay their bill. This has become a source of contention and controversy, since how franchise fees are characterized and billed can have a profound effect on public attitudes toward cable television.\n\nLocal governments generally would prefer this item not be listed on the bill. Since the fee is paid to the government, when it is broken down on a per-customer basis on the bill it appears to be a tax on the customer, possibly igniting antipathy against government officials. If it just appeared on accounting statements as a lump sum payment by the cable provider, it would be perceived by the public more as a fee-for-service, which is how governments regard it. However, the Communications Act provides the transparency of the franchise fee so that customers of the cable company understand the fee imposed by the government upon the cable company.\n\nCable providers, in contrast, see the fee as a cost of doing business which they are passing along to the customer. By listing on their bill the portion attributable to the fee, customers may feel that government is responsible for that portion, not the cable provider. Also, since customers will immediately notice any increase in the fee, and may interpret it as a \"tax increase\", listing it on the bill may discourage governments from pushing for an increase in the fee when the franchise agreement is renewed.\n\nJustifications or rationales for the franchise fee fall into six basic categories: \n\n"}
{"id": "3341879", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3341879", "title": "Chaga languages", "text": "Chaga languages\n\nChaga, also \"Kichaga\" or \"Kichagga\", is a Bantu dialect continuum spoken by the Chaga people of northern Tanzania, south of Mount Kilimanjaro.\nThey also speak 9 different dialects which are Kivunjo, Kimarangu, Kirombo, Kimachame, Kisiha, Kikibosho, Kiuru, Kioldimoshi and Kingassa.\n\nThe Chaga languages are,\n\n"}
{"id": "887473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=887473", "title": "Compound (linguistics)", "text": "Compound (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, a compound is a lexeme (less precisely, a word) that consists of more than one stem. Compounding, composition or nominal composition is the process of word formation that creates compound lexemes. That is, in familiar terms, compounding occurs when two or more words are joined to make one longer word. The meaning of the compound may be similar to or different from the meanings of its components in isolation. The component stems of a compound may be of the same part of speech—as in the case of the English word \"footpath\", composed of the two nouns \"foot\" and \"path\"—or they may belong to different parts of speech, as in the case of the English word \"blackbird\", composed of the adjective \"black\" and the noun \"bird\". With very few exceptions, English compound words are stressed on their first component stem.\n\nThe process occurs readily in other Germanic languages for different reasons. Words can be concatenated both to mean the same as the sum of two words (e.g. \"Pressekonferenz\"—German for press conference) or where an adjective and noun are compounded (e.g. \"hvidvinsglas\"—Danish for white wine glass).\n\nThe addition of affix morphemes to words (such as suffixes or prefixes, as in \"employ\" → \"employment\") should not be confused with nominal composition, as this is actually morphological derivation.\n\nSome languages easily form compounds from what in other languages would be a multi-word expression. This can result in unusually long words, a phenomenon known in German (which is one such language) as \"Bandwurmwörter\" or \"tapeworm words\".\n\nCompound formation rules vary widely across language types.\n\nIn a synthetic language, the relationship between the elements of a compound may be marked with a case or other morpheme. For example, the German compound consists of the lexemes (sea captain) and (license) joined by an \"-s-\" (originally a genitive case suffix); and similarly, the Latin lexeme contains the archaic genitive form of the lexeme (family). Conversely, in the Hebrew language compound, the word בֵּית סֵפֶר (school), it is the head that is modified: the compound literally means \"house-of book\", with בַּיִת (house) having entered the construct state to become בֵּית (house-of). This latter pattern is common throughout the Semitic languages, though in some it is combined with an explicit genitive case, so that both parts of the compound are marked (e.g. Arabic عبد الله \"ʕabdu ʔal-lāhi\" \"servant-of-God\").\n\nAgglutinative languages tend to create very long words with derivational morphemes. Compounds may or may not require the use of derivational morphemes also.\nThe longest compounds in the world may be found in the Finnic and Germanic languages. In German, extremely \nextendable compound words can be found in the language of chemical compounds, where, in the cases of biochemistry and polymers, they can be practically unlimited in length, mostly because the German rule suggests combining all noun adjuncts with the noun as the very last stem. German examples include (color television set), (radio remote control), and the often quoted jocular word (originally only two Fs, Danube steamboat shipping company captain['s] hat), which can of course be made even longer and even more absurd, e.g. \"Donaudampfschifffahrtsgesellschaftskapitänsmützenreinigungsausschreibungsverordnungsdiskussionsanfang\" (\"beginning of the discussion of a regulation on tendering of Danube steamboat shipping company captain hats\") etc. According to several editions of the Guinness Book of World Records, the longest published German has 79 letters and is \" Donaudampfschiffahrtselektrizitätenhauptbetriebswerkbauunterbeamtengesellschaft \"(\"Association for Subordinate Officials of the Main Electric[ity] Maintenance Building of the Danube Steam Shipping\"), but there is no evidence that this association ever actually existed. The word is so absurd that it was obviously invented as a joke, which is emphasized by the illogical use of the plural of \"electricity\".\n\nIn Finnish, although there is theoretically no limit to the length of compound words, words consisting of more than three components are rare. Even those with less than three components can look mysterious to non-Finnish such as (emergency exit). Internet folklore sometimes suggests that (Airplane jet turbine engine auxiliary mechanic non-commissioned officer student) is the longest word in Finnish, but evidence of it actually being used is scant and anecdotal at best.\n\nCompounds can be rather long when translating technical documents from English to some other language, since the lengths of the words are theoretically unlimited, especially in chemical terminology. For example, when translating an English technical document to Swedish, the term \"Motion estimation search range settings\" can be directly translated to , though in reality, the word would most likely be divided in two: – \"search range settings for motion estimation\".\n\nA common semantic classification of compounds yields four types:\n\n\nAn endocentric compound consists of a \"head\", i.e. the categorical part that contains the basic meaning of the whole compound, and modifiers, which restrict this meaning. For example, the English compound \"doghouse\", where \"house\" is the head and \"dog\" is the modifier, is understood as a house intended for a dog. Endocentric compounds tend to be of the same part of speech (word class) as their head, as in the case of \"doghouse\". (Such compounds were called \"tatpuruṣa\" in the Sanskrit tradition.)\n\nAn exocentric compound (called a \"bahuvrihi\" compound in the Sanskrit tradition) is a hyponym of some unexpressed semantic category (such as a person, plant, or animal): none (neither) of its components can be perceived as a formal head, and its meaning often cannot be transparently guessed from its constituent parts. For example, the English compound \"white-collar\" is neither a kind of collar nor a white thing. In an exocentric compound, the word class is determined lexically, disregarding the class of the constituents. For example, a \"must-have\" is not a verb but a noun. The meaning of this type of compound can be glossed as \"(one) whose B is A\", where B is the second element of the compound and A the first. A bahuvrihi compound is one whose nature is expressed by neither of the words: thus a \"white-collar\" person is neither white nor a collar (the collar's colour is a metonym for socioeconomic status). Other English examples include \"barefoot\".\n\nCopulative compounds are compounds with two semantic heads.\n\nAppositional compounds are lexemes that have two (contrary) attributes that classify the compound.\n\nAll natural languages have compound nouns. The positioning of the words (i.e. the most common order of constituents in phrases where nouns are modified by adjectives, by possessors, by other nouns, etc.) varies according to the language. While Germanic languages, for example, are left-branching when it comes to noun phrases (the modifiers come before the head), the Romance languages are usually right-branching.\n\nIn French, compound nouns are often formed by left-hand heads with prepositional components inserted before the modifier, as in \"chemin-de-fer\" 'railway', lit. 'road of iron', and \"moulin à vent\" 'windmill', lit. 'mill (that works)-by-means-of wind'.\n\nIn Turkish, one way of forming compound nouns is as follows: \"yeldeğirmeni\" 'windmill' (\"yel\": wind, \"değirmen-i\": mill-possessive); \"demiryolu\" 'railway' (\"demir\": iron, \"yol-u\": road-possessive).\n\nA type of compound that is fairly common in the Indo-European languages is formed of a verb and its object, and in effect transforms a simple verbal clause into a noun.\n\nIn Spanish, for example, such compounds consist of a verb conjugated for the second person singular imperative followed by a noun (singular or plural): e.g., \"rascacielos\" (modelled on \"skyscraper\", lit. 'scratch skies'), \"sacacorchos\" ('corkscrew', lit. 'pull corks'), \"guardarropa\" ('wardrobe', lit. 'store clothes'). These compounds are formally invariable in the plural (but in many cases they have been reanalyzed as plural forms, and a singular form has appeared). French and Italian have these same compounds with the noun in the singular form: Italian \"grattacielo\", 'skyscraper'; French \"grille-pain\", 'toaster' (lit. 'toast bread').\n\nThis construction exists in English, generally with the verb and noun both in uninflected form: examples are \"spoilsport\", \"killjoy\", \"breakfast\", \"cutthroat\", \"pickpocket\", \"dreadnought\", and \"know-nothing\".\n\nAlso common in English is another type of verb–noun (or noun–verb) compound, in which an argument of the verb is incorporated into the verb, which is then usually turned into a gerund, such as \"breastfeeding\", \"finger-pointing\", etc. The noun is often an instrumental complement. From these gerunds new verbs can be made: \"(a mother) breastfeeds (a child)\" and from them new compounds \"mother-child breastfeeding\", etc.\n\nIn the Australian Aboriginal language Jingulu, a Pama–Nyungan language, it is claimed that all verbs are V+N compounds, such as \"do a sleep\", or \"run a dive\", and the language has only three basic verbs: \"do\", \"make\", and \"run\".\n\nA special kind of compounding is incorporation, of which noun incorporation into a verbal root (as in English \"backstabbing\", \"breastfeed\", etc.) is most prevalent (see below).\n\nVerb–verb compounds are sequences of more than one verb acting together to determine clause structure. They have two types:\n\n\nSerial verb expressions in English may include \"What did you go and do that for?\", or \"He just upped and left\"; this is however not quite a true compound since they are connected by a conjunction and the second missing arguments may be taken as a case of ellipsis.\n\n\n\nCompound prepositions formed by prepositions and nouns are common in English and the Romance languages (consider English \"on top of\", Spanish \"encima de\", etc.). Hindi has a small number of simple (i.e., one-word) postpositions and a large number of compound postpositions, mostly consisting of simple postposition \"ke\" followed by a specific postposition (e.g., \"ke pas\", \"near\"; \"ke nīche\", \"underneath\").\n\nChinese (traditional/simplified Chinese; Standard Chinese Pinyin/Cantonese Jyutping):\n\nDutch:\n\nFinnish:\nGerman:\n\nAncient Greek:\n\nIcelandic:\n\nItalian:\n\nJapanese:\n\nKorean:\n\nOjibwe/Anishinaabemowin:\n\nSpanish:\n\nTamil:\nIn \"Cemmozhi\" (Classical Tamil), rules for compounding are laid down in grammars such as Tolkappiyam and Nannūl, in various forms, under the name \"punarcci\". Examples of compounds include kopuram from 'kō' (king) + 'puram' (exterior). Sometimes phonemes may be inserted during the blending process such as in kovil from 'kō' (king) + 'il' (home). Other types are like \"vennai\" (butter) from 'veḷḷai' (white) + 'nei' (ghee); note how 'veḷḷai' becomes 'ven'.\n\nIn \"koṭuntamizh\" (Non-standard Tamil), parts of words from other languages may be morphed into Tamil. Common examples include 'ratta-azhuttam' (blood pressure) from the Sanskrit \"rakta\" (blood) and \"Cemmozhi\" 'azhuttam' (pressure); note how \"rakta\" becomes \"ratta\" in Tamil order to remove the consonant-cluster. This also happens with English, for examples \"kāpi-kaṭai\" (coffee shop) is from English \"coffee\", which becomes \"kāpi\" in Tamil, and the Tamil \"kaṭai\" meaning shop.\n\nTłįchǫ Yatiì/Dogrib:\n\nIn Germanic languages (including English), compounds are formed by prepending what is effectively a namespace (disambiguation context) to the main word. For example, \"football\" would be a \"ball\" in the \"foot\" context. In itself, this does not alter the meaning of the main word. The added context only makes it more precise. As such, a \"football\" must be understood as a \"ball\". However, as is the case with \"football\", a well established compound word may have gained a special meaning in the language's vocabulary. Only this defines \"football\" as a particular type of ball (unambiguously the round object, not the dance party, at that), and also the game involving such a ball. Another example of special and altered meaning is \"starfish\" – a starfish is in fact not a fish in modern biology. Also syntactically, the compound word behaves like the main word – the whole compound word (or phrase) inherits the word class and inflection rules of the main word. That is to say, since \"fish\" and \"shape\" are nouns, \"starfish\" and \"star shape\" must also be nouns, and they must take plural forms as \"starfish\" and \"star shapes\", definite singular forms as \"the starfish\" and \"the star shape\", and so on. This principle also holds for languages that express definiteness by inflection (as in North Germanic).\n\nBecause a compound is understood as a word in its own right, it may in turn be used in new compounds, so forming an arbitrarily long word is trivial. This contrasts to Romance languages, where prepositions are more used to specify word relationships instead of concatenating the words. As a member of the Germanic family of languages, English is unusual in that compounds, as a main rule, are written in their separate parts. This would be an error in at least Norwegian, Swedish, Danish, German and Dutch. However, this is merely an orthographic convention: As in other Germanic languages, arbitrary noun phrases, for example, like \"girl scout troop\", \"city council member\", and \"cellar door\", can be made up on the spot and used as compound nouns in speech, also in English.\n\nIn the Russian language compounding is a common type of word formation, and several types of compounds exist, both in terms of compounded parts of speech and of the way of the formation of a compound.\n\nCompound nouns may be agglutinative compounds, hyphenated compounds (стол-книга 'folding table' lit. 'table-book', i.e., \"book-like table\"), or abbreviated compounds (acronyms: колхоз 'kolkhoz'). Some compounds look like acronym, while in fact they are an agglutinations of type stem + word: Академгородок 'Akademgorodok' (from \"akademichesky gorodok\" 'academic village'). In agglutinative compound nouns, an agglutinating infix is typically used: пароход 'steamship': пар + о + ход. Compound nouns may be created as noun+noun, adjective + noun, noun + adjective (rare), noun + verb (or, rather, noun + verbal noun).\n\nCompound adjectives may be formed either per se, e.g., бело-розовый 'white-pink', or as a result of compounding during the derivation of an adjective from a multi-word term: Каменноостровский проспект () 'Stone Island Avenue', a street in St.Petersburg.\n\nReduplication in Russian language is also a source of compounds.\n\nQuite a few Russian words are borrowed from other languages in an already compounded form, including numerous \"classical compounds\" or internationalisms: автомобиль 'automobile'.\n\nSanskrit is very rich in compound formation with seven major compound types and as many as 55 sub-types. The compound formation process is productive, so it is not possible to list all Sanskrit compounds in a dictionary. Compounds of two or three words are more frequent, but longer compounds with some \"running through pages\" are not rare in Sanskrit literature. Some examples are below (hyphens below show individual word boundaries for ease of reading but are not required in original Sanskrit).\n\nAlthough there is no universally agreed-upon guideline regarding the use of compound words in the English language, in recent decades written English has displayed a noticeable trend towards increased use of compounds. Recently, many words have been made by taking syllables of words and compounding them, such as pixel (picture element) and bit (binary digit). This is called a syllabic abbreviation.\n\nIn Dutch and the Scandinavian languages there is an unofficial trend toward splitting compound words, known in Norwegian as \"særskriving\", in Swedish as \"särskrivning\" (literally \"separate writing\"), and in Dutch as \"Engelse ziekte\" (the \"English disease\"). Because the Scandinavian languages rely heavily on the distinction between the compound word and the sequence of the separate words it consists of, this has serious implications. For example, the adjective \"røykfritt\" (literally \"smokefree\", meaning no smoking allowed) if separated into its composite parts, would mean \"røyk fritt\" (\"smoke freely\"). In Dutch, compounds written with spaces may also be confused, but can also be interpreted as a sequence of a noun and a genitive (which is unmarked in Dutch) in formal abbreviated writing. This may lead to, for example, \"commissie vergadering\" (\"commission meeting\") being read as \"commission of the meeting\" rather than \"meeting of the commission\" (normally spelled \"commissievergadering\").\n\nThe German spelling reform of 1996 introduced the option of hyphenating compound nouns when it enhances comprehensibility and readability. This is done mostly with very long compound words by separating them into two or more smaller compounds, like \"Eisenbahn-Unterführung\" (railway underpass) or \"Kraftfahrzeugs-Betriebsanleitung\" (car manual). Such practice is also permitted in other Germanic languages, e.g. Danish and Norwegian (Bokmål and Nynorsk alike), and is even encouraged between parts of the word that have very different pronunciation, such as when one part is a loan word or an acronym.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17026118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17026118", "title": "Dizin language", "text": "Dizin language\n\nDizin (often called “Dizi” or “Maji” in the literature) is an Omotic language of the Afro-Asiatic language family spoken by the Dizi people, primarily in the Maji woreda of the Southern Nations, Nationalities and Peoples Region, located in southwestern Ethiopia. The 2007 census listed 33,927 speakers. \nA population of 17,583 was identified as monolinguals in 1994.\n\nThe language has basic SOV (subject–object–verb) word order, tones, and is largely suffixing. Phonologically, \"Features of the Dizin sound system include glottalized consonants, syllabic nasals, lengthened vowels, three phonemic tone levels and contour tones. Western Dizin has phonemic retroflex consonants. The glottal stop is analyzed as phonemic word initially before nasals, but not phonemic elsewhere\". (Beachy 2005:iv)\n\nDizin, together with the Sheko and Nayi languages, is part of a cluster of languages variously called \"Maji\" or \"Dizoid\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1160232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1160232", "title": "Duenos inscription", "text": "Duenos inscription\n\nThe Duenos inscription is one of the earliest known Old Latin texts, variously dated from the 7th to the 5th century BC. It is inscribed on the sides of a \"kernos\", in this case a trio of small globular vases adjoined by three clay struts. It was found by Heinrich Dressel in 1880 on the Quirinal Hill in Rome. The \"kernos\" belongs to the Staatliche Museen in Berlin (inventory no. 30894,3).\n\nThe inscription is written right to left in three units, without spaces to separate words. It is difficult to translate, as some letters are hard to distinguish, particularly since they cannot always be deduced by context. The absence of spaces causes additional difficulty in assigning the letters to the respective words.\n\nThere have been many proposed translations advanced by scholars since the discovery of the \"kernos\"; by 1983, more than fifty different explanations of the meaning had been put forward. Due to the lack of a large body of archaic Latin, and the method by which Romans abbreviated their inscriptions, scholars have not been able to produce a singular translation that has been accepted by historians as accurate. However thanks to Arthur E. Gordon's work the reading of the text can be now considered certain.\n\nBelow is the transcription and one of many possible interpretations:\n\nLine 1:\n\nLine 2:\n\nLine 3:\n\nAn interpretation set out by Warmington and Eichner, renders the complete translation as follows, though not with certainty:\n\n\"Duenos\" is an older form of Classical Latin ('good'), just as Classical ('war') is from Old Latin \"duellum\". Some scholars posit Duenos as a proper name, instead of merely an adjective.\n\nThe Praenestine fibula is thought by some to be the earliest surviving evidence of the Latin language dating to the 7th century BC, but has been alleged by Margherita Guarducci to have been a well-informed hoax; however, the evidence is only circumstantial and there are no clear indications pointing to a forgery. Although these claims have been disproven, as a new analysis performed in 2011 declared it to be genuine \"beyond any reasonable doubt\".\n\nThe inscription (CIL I 2nd 2, 4) is scratched along the side of the body of three vases made of dark brown \"bucchero\", connected with each other by short cylindric arms. It is written from right to left spiralling downwards about times. The letters are written upside-down for a reader who looks at the inscription from a level position; this has been explained by Aldo Luigi Prosdocimi as due to the fact that the inscription was meant to be read from above, not from a sideways position. Some letters are written in an archaic fashion that appears influenced by the Greek alphabet. There are signs of corrections in the two or of and and in the of . Three distinct sections are individuated by spaces after and . There are neither spaces delimiting words nor signs of interpunction. The earliest interpunction to appear was syllabic. As it appeared only in the 7th century BC, the inscription should be more ancient.\n\nThe inscription is made up by two distinct parts or sections, the second one beginning with the word . It was found in a votive deposit (\"favissa\"). It belongs to the kind known as \"speaking inscriptions\", widely in use in the Archaic period. Some scholars consider the object to be of good quality and reflecting the high social status of the owner. Others consider it common.\n\nThe vase was bought from an antiquarian by Heinrich Dressel shortly after its find. It was discovered in 1880 by workers who were digging to lay the foundation of a building near the newly opened Via Nazionale, in the valley between the Quirinal Hill and the Viminal Hill. More precisely it was found on the south slope of the Quirinal, near the church of San Vitale, Rome. Dressel was told the place was supposed to have been a burial site.\n\nArcheologist Filippo Coarelli has advanced the hypothesis that the object might have been placed in the votive deposit of one of the temples of goddess Fortuna dedicated by king Servius Tullius, perhaps the one known as \"Fortuna Publica\" or \" Citerior\", i.e. located on the side of the Quirinal near to Rome. Her festival recurred on the \"nonae\" of April (April 5). However June 11, the festival day of the Matralia, which was originally devoted to \"Mater Matuta\", was also the day of the \"Fortuna Virgo\", ritually associated with the passage of girls from adolescence into adulthood and married life.\n\nThe antiquity of the document is generally acknowledged. The language shows archaic characters in morphology, phonetics and syntax. The absence of \"u\" after \"q\" would testify to its greater antiquity comparatively to the inscription of the \"cippus\" of the Forum, also known as Lapis Niger (CIL I 1).\n\nFor the sake of convenience of interpretation, the text is usually divided into two sections, the first one containing the first two units and ending with . The two sections show a relative syntactic and semantic independence.\n\nMany attempts have been made at deciphering the text.\n\nIn the 1950s the inscription had been interpreted mainly on the basis of (and in relation to) the supposed function of the vases, considered either as containers for a love philter or of beauty products: the text would then mockingly threaten the owner about his behaviour towards the vase itself or try to attract a potential buyer. This is the so-called erotic line of interpretation which found supporters until the eighties.\n\nDuring the 1960s Georges Dumézil proposed a new line of thought in the interpreting of the text. He remarked the inconsistency of the previous interpretations both with the solemnity of the opening formula (\"Iovesat deivos qoi med mitat\": 'He swears for the gods who sends /delivers me') and with the site of the find. Dumézil's interpretation was: \"If it happens that the girl is not nice to you/ has no easy relationship with you (\"\"nei ted endo cosmis virco sied\" = \"ne in te (=erga te) cosmis virgo sit\"), we shall have the obligation of bringing her and you into good harmony, accord, agreement (\"asted noisi ... pakari vois\"=\"at sit nobis ... pacari vobis\"\"). The transmission of the object would be expressed by the words \"qoi med mitat\". The story mirrored in the text would thus depict a custom deeply rooted in Roman society that is described by Plautus in the scene of the Menaechmi in which the \"tutor\" of the \"virgo\" or his representatives formally give a suretyship about her attitude towards a man.\n\nDumézil's interpretation though was fraught with linguistic problems. Apart from the value of the before , which he considered meaningless or an error of the incisor, the only possible meaning of \"ope\" in Latin is 'by the power or force of', and it governs a word in the genitive case. Thence the only governing word could be the group : this would then be an exception to the rule of the genitive of the themes in \"-a\", which does not end in \"-as\" as expected, an archaism perhaps in Dumézil's view. would then denote the means by which the \"nois(i)\", 'we', would have the authority of establishing peace between the 'vois' 'you' (the couple) of the main relationship justifying the delivery of the vase. Dumézil thinks of the involvement of more than one \"tutor\" for each party in order to explain the two plurals \"nois(i)\" and \"vois\". Lastly the ending presents difficulties. It might derive from an archaic \"-e-s-la\" as proposed by H. Osthoff in the formation of Latin abstract names with an assimilation of the liquid into an \"i\". Another possibility would be to interpret the suffix \"-ela\" as \"-e-la\", i.e. as a female derivation of an ancient neuter \"-el\" attested in Hittite. This would entail admitting the incisor made two errors.\n\nAntonino Pagliaro understood the word as an adjective from noun \"tutela\", \"ope tuteria\", i.e. \"ope tutoria\" in classical Latin: the word would thence be an attribute in the ablative.\n\nDumézil's contribution and the location of the find gave researchers grounds to pursue their work of interpretation in the same direction, i.e. of its significance as a token of legal obligation. The efforts have centred on deciphering of the last segment of the first section, .\n\nAs already mentioned above, the cult of \"Fortuna Virgo\", celebrated on the day of the Matralia, was related to the role of girls who became married women. The passage saw girls as completely passive subjects both during the archaic period and great part of the republican: the matrimonial exchange was conducted, as far as legally relevant profiles were concerned, by the subjects who had \"potestas\" on the woman and by the future husband (or he/those who had \"potestas\" over him). This is testified by the fact the \"virgo\" had no right of pronouncing the \"nupta verba\".\n\nThe passage which presents the greatest difficulties is the central group of letters in the string . Proposed interpretations include: \"iubet\" orders for ; \"futuitioni\" sexual intercourse for , the cut / or / so that would be the only recognisable Latin word.\n\nDumézil attributes a peculiar semantic value to the syllabic group : a moral instrument that is nothing else than a form of the power the males of a family group (father, tutors) exercised on a girl, i.e. a variant or alteration of the word \"tutelae\", similar to \"tu(i)tela\". Since this interpretation has been proposed no critic has been able to disprove it. Authoritative scholars on the grounds of the lexeme \"toitesiai\" have proposed a theonym (Coarelli), a feminine proper name Tuteria (Peruzzi, Bolelli), or even a \"gentilicium\", the gens Titur(n)ia (Simon and Elboj) mentioned by Cicero.\n\nIn the 1990s, two further contributions have discussed once again the interpretation of the second part of the first grapheme, particularly morpheme \"toitesiai\". Even though doubts have been cast over its correspondence with the technical Roman legal word \"tutela\", Dumézil intuition of recognising in the destination of the vase a juridical function, namely a matrimonial \"sponsio\", was accepted and taken on.\n\nG. Pennisi reconstructs the text as follows: \"Iovesat deivos qoi med mitat: nei ted cosmis virgo sied ast ednoisi opetoi pakari vois. Duenos med feced en manom einom duenoi ne med malos tatod\". Segment is deciphered recurring to Homeric έεδνα in the meaning of nuptial gifts and the speaking token would be a marriage compact or promise by a young man in love to a girl to whom the vase is presented as a gift. The inscription would thence exhibit an oath structure consisting in an archaic form of \"coemptio\": \"Swears for the gods he who buys me\": \"mitat = *emitat\" (the future bridegroom would be speaking in the third person). Then passing to the second person the compact would be set out in the second line by the offering of the nuptial gifts as a guarantee. The third line would complete the legal formula of the compact (\"Duenos / ne med malos tatod\").\nLeo Peppe has proposed to interpret the inscription as a primitive form of matrimonial \"coemptio\" different from that presented in Gaius, consisting in a cumulative acceptance that included both the legal aspects concerning the transmission of the dotal assets and the religious ones inherent in the matrimonial cults and rites.\n\nF. Marco Simon and G. Fontana Elboj (autopsy) confirmed the interpretation of the previous proposals that see in the vase the symbol of a marriage compact. The authors ground their interpretation on the segment instead of . They therefore identified a root \"*o-it\" (composed by prefix \"*o\" and lexeme \"*i-\", cf. Latin \"eo\") related to classic Latin \"utor\", and suffix \"-esios/a\" (cf. \"Valesios\" of the Lapis Satricanus and \"Leucesie\" of the carmen Saliare). The substantive \"oitesiai\" would be thus related to the semantic field of \"utor\" i.e. the concept of \"utilitas\". Therefore, the text should be divided as: \"asted noisi; opet otesiai pakari vois\". \"Opet\" would be an articulatory fusion between the dative \"opi\" and conjunction \"et\". The whole text should thus be understood as: \"Ni erga te virgo comis sit, asted nobis; (iurat) opi et utilitati pangi vois\", 'if the girl is not to your taste/agreeable to you, let her go back to us; (he swears) to give you guarantee about your disturb and your interest'. The segment \"oitesiai\" could be also understood as \"utensilium\" referred to the vase itself as a token of suretiship or \"usus\" in the technical legal sense of Roman marriage as a way of providing a guarantee. The last two hypotheses are, however, considered unacceptable by the authors on the grounds that no genitive marker is to be found in the segment \"oitesiai\".\nThe proposed interpretation would find support in its strict analogy with a passage of Terentius's Hecyra (vv. 136–151), in which a story similar to that supposedly recorded on the vase is described. The text would thus be the undertaking of an obligation concerning the eventuality that the girl go back to her family of origin, should she be not liked by the bridegroom (\"asted endo cosmis virco sied, asted noisi\").\n\nEven after the last two contributions related above, Sacchi acknowledges that all attempts at interpreting the segment remain conjectural.\n\nDumézil's hypothesis of a protoform of \"tutela\", though attractive and plausible, remains unconfirmed.\n\nAlthough there are still obscure points in the interpretation of line two, it is generally accepted that the text contains the formula of an oath. On the archaic oath and its juridical value there is large agreement among scholars. It looks also probable that the object should have a religious implication: an instrument permeated by religious ritualism, as the oath could well be employed in legal practice at the time of the object, as seems supported by linguistic analysis. The usage of the oath in archaic times as an instrument of private civil law could have been widespread, even though the issue has not yet been thoroughly analysed. Even though in the inscription there is no segment directly reminiscent of the dialogic formula of the \"sponsio\", i.e. \"\"spondes tu ...?\", \"spondeo!\"\", internal and external evidence allow the assumption of the enactment of a matrimonial \"sponsio\". Such a usage of oaths is attested in later literary sources.\n\nBesides the trace of a \"sponsio\" as the legal function of the object, Dumézil would also see that of providing a piece evidence, i.e. a probatory attitude. Servius in his commentary to the \"Aeneid\" writes that, before the introduction of the matrimonial tablets, in Latium the parties used to exchange tokens of pledge (\"symbola\") on which they stated as a promise that they agreed to the marriage and nominated guarantors (\"sponsores\"). To the same time of the regal period is ascribed the introduction of the Greek use of double scriptures, \"tesserae\".\n\nThe sponsio is one of the most ancient forms of verbal undertaking of obligation and its religious nature is acknowledged, as well as its connection with betrothal. The ancient sources are in agreement that the archaic \"sponsalia\" had a religious nature.\n\nBrent Vine's study which focuses on the linguistic analysis of the word of the first sentence and of the segment of the third lends support to such an interpretation: he argues that \"mitat\" would be a form of a frequentative verb \"mitare\" based on a past participle in -\"to\" of an IE root \"*meɨ̯\", with the meaning of 'exchange'. Semantically this frequentative should be considered factitive, thence arriving at a verb that would mean 'to cause to be given in exchange', hence 'to give (in exchange)'. Vine's analysis of the segment fits the hypothesis of an exchange of \"symbola\" equally well. He argues that a word could be isolated on the grounds of the single spelling of geminates which is considered normal by linguists for the archaic period. This he proposes to understand as reflecting a substantivised \"*méi̯-no-\", meaning 'something given in exchange, gift' from the same root \"*mei̯ \" as in . This form would be a -\"no\" substantive, a widely attested formation and may be presupposed by Latin \"mūnus, mūneris\" 'duty, service, office, offering', from immediate antecedent \"*mói̯-n-es-\". The appearance of \"mitat\" and \"[m]einom\" show a semantic contiguity and may constitute a figura etymologica. This alliterative form would be analogous to the Old Latin phrase \"donum do\", \"donum\" being formed exactly in the same way as supposed for \"[m]einom\" (\"*déh3-no-\"). \"*Meinom mito\" would have existed beside \"donum do\", both referring to similar but culturally distinct behaviours, the first one perhaps \"specifically involving exchange/reciprocity\".\n\nThe document raises also the question of the kind of the marriage in question, and specifically of whether it was with or without \"manus\". Dumézil supported the thesis of a marriage without loss the independent status of the woman (\"sine capitis deminutio\"). In the last case it should be admitted that in archaic times a form of marriage existed in which the \"sponsio\" was directly linked to the \"nuptiae\", independently from the initial constitution of the \"manus\". The \"sponsalia\" would then be the occasion upon which the legal subjects defined the compacts concerning the juridical and economic aspects of the marriage: the dowry, the future legal status of the woman who could be put under the \"potestas/tutela\" of one or more persons, the compensations for a passage of status of the woman and the guarantees for breach of promise. Two strata were perhaps present as testified by the expression \"more atque iure\" of Gellius.\n\nThen the object in question could well have been deposited in a temple upon the occasion of a marriage ritual as a probatory document of an engagement undertaken not by the girl but by her \"sponsor\". The compact would be also a legal guarantee of the rights of the future bridegroom.\n\nThe most relevant issue for the interpretation of the document in Sacchi's view is the meaning the lexical couple . The meaning of \"Duenos\" has been often considered to be the name of the craftsman who made the object. Such an interpretation meets with the difficulty of how to explain the second occurrence of the word and with the problem of how to interpret , since if \"Duenos\" is a name identifying a person and qualifying him as 'good' then it would difficult to understand the use of \"manom\" in the same sense of 'good'. It should be easier to understand \"manom\" as \"manum\" ('hand'), i.e. reading: \"Duenos made me with his own hands\".\n\nSacchi, following Palmer and Colonna, proposes to interpret the couple as conveying a specifically technical religious and legal meaning as is testified in ancient sources. \"Duenos\" has given classic Latin \"bonus\", 'good', but originally the adjective had certainly religious and sacral implications: in the oldest sacral formulae it had a more technical acception and the repetition had other implications than just eurythmy. Colonna refers to the formula \"optumus duonorum\" of the mid republic which was a qualificative formula with sacral implication reserved to the upper classes. Correspondences are the opposition of the epithets \"Optimus\" and \"Maximus\" of Capitoline Jupiter, the early Faliscan \"Titia\" inscription \"Eco quton euotenosio titias duenom duenas. Salu[...]voltene\" interpreted as 'good among the good', the epitaph of Lucius Cornelius Scipio, the consul of 259 BC, \"duonoro[m] optumo[m]... viro[m]\" in which clearly the adjective \"duonus\" is not the synonym of \"optumus\", that as derived from \"ops\", plenty, has different semantic connotations. Colonna also reminds that \"in the carmen Saliare (similarly to the Duenos vase) \"bonus\" (\"duonus\") and \"manus\" occur together, both referred to the same character, the god \"Cerus\", fact that makes their synonymity implausible\". In order to further clarify the use of the adjective in the text, Sacchi makes reference also to a well-known passage of Cicero's \"De Legibus\" II 9, 22: \"Deorum Manium iura sancta sunto. (B)onos leto datos divos habento ...\". Here too as in the above two instances \"one can remark the opposition between \"Manium\", that, as shown in Paulus exc. Festi, originally meant 'the good ones' and the qualificative (B)onos = Duenos as referred to the deified dead (= \"divos\"). Cicero here relates a pontifical prescription of high antiquity consciously preserving the original wise of expression and lexic\". In other words, one could argue that it is not meant that the \"dii Manes\" become 'good' in the ethic sense, but rather that the dead consecrated to death according to the pontifical prescriptions (\"leto datos\") do become gods (= \"divos\"). The epithet \"duenos\" would then design that which has been given in homage, consecrated correctly according to the pontifical ritual.\n\nSacchi opines that in the case of the Duenos inscription the speaker is acting according to the religious legal ritual, presumably enacting a private \"consecratio\": the formula of the dedication is then a case of private \"dedicatio dis\", dedication to the gods. The epithet \"duenos\" should therefore be interpreted as used in its original technical sense. The restitution of the text should thus be: \"A party acting in the way sanctioned by religious law made/consecrated me for a good end. That no harm/fraud be done to me and to one who is a party (equally) religiously sanctioned by the gods\". The vase is a speaking token that after the celebration of the ritual consecrates the content of the action, of which it is \"the form in its probatory function and the matter as a constituent element\".\n\nVine quotes German authors who still follow the erotic thread of interpretation. They think of the vase as a container for beauty products and interpret the last phrase as 'let no evil person steal me'. \" would be a form of a Latin verb \"*stare\" that failed to survive for its \"homonymie fâcheuse\" [unfortunate homonymy] with the ordinary verb for 'stand, as found in Hittite \"tāyezzi\" 'steals', Vedic \"stená-stāyú\" 'thief'.\n\nBoth Sacchi and Vine remark the striking parallelism between the formula of the Duenos inscription: and the inscription on a pedestal (probably of a votive statue) from Tibur: . Vine finds in it support for his interpreting of as meaning \"munus\".\n\nSacchi rejects the interpretation of \"cosmis\" as \"agreeable\" in the first section that is traditionally accepted in the scholarly literature, on the grounds of considerations of history of the language and semantics. He proposes to interpret the term as referring to the peculiar style of hairdressing of brides, known as \"seni crines\" which would find support in Festus: \"\"Comptus id est ornatus ... qui apud nos comis: et comae dicuntur capilli cum aliqua cura compositi\", '\"Comptus\", that is adorned, ... what we call \"comis\"; and \"comae\" is named the hair dressed with a certain care'. In the inscription the use of this word would be an explicit allusion to the fact that the girl shall be ready to marry. Festus gives it as a most ancient custom for marriage ceremonies. An analogous usage of the word \"comis\" is to be found in Gellius while relating the custom of \"flaminica dialis\" on the occasion of the Argei.\n\n"}
{"id": "46178704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46178704", "title": "Ezza Agha Malak", "text": "Ezza Agha Malak\n\nEzza Agha Malak (born 14 July 1942) is a Lebanese-born French novelist, poet, critic and essayist.\n\nBorn in 1942 in Tripoli, Agha Malak attended the École de Lettres in Beirut. She left Lebanon for France with her two daughters in 1975 at the beginning of the Lebanese Civil War. She studied French language and literature at Lumière University Lyon 2 where she received doctorates in literature and linguistics.\n\nAgha Malak has written novels, short stories and several collections of poetry. Her works stand out against the injustice and violence of war and criticize the role of women in the Muslim world while examining the sociological aspects of the male-female partnership. She is present at several book fairs each year, especially the annual French-language book fair in Beirut. She is still an active writer, spending her time between the north of Lebanon and Burgundy where she lives.\n\nIn 2012, Ezza Agha Malak was honoured as an officier of the French Ordre des Arts et des Lettres.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42654482", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42654482", "title": "Faryad Shiri", "text": "Faryad Shiri\n\nFaryad Shiri (in Kurdish: فەریاد شیری) is a contemporary Iranian Kurdish poet, critic, writer and translator. He works on Kurdish and Persian literature. Faryad was born in Sahneh in 1971. He has published more than twenty works consisting of his poems, translations and stories. He also has gotten several prizes such as Iran poetry prize (2002).\n\nHere is some of his works in poetry and translation:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2161994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2161994", "title": "Ijoid languages", "text": "Ijoid languages\n\nIjoid is a proposed but undemonstrated group of languages linking the Ijaw languages (Ịjọ) with the endangered Defaka language. The similarities, however, may be due to Ijaw influence on Defaka.\n\nThe Ijoid, or perhaps just Ijaw, languages form a divergent branch of the Niger–Congo family and are noted for their subject–object–verb basic word order, which is otherwise an unusual feature in Niger–Congo, shared only by such distant branches as Mande and Dogon. Like Mande and Dogon, Ijoid lacks even traces of the noun class system considered characteristic of Niger–Congo, and so may have split early from that family. Linguist Gerrit Dimmendaal doubts its inclusion in Niger–Congo altogether and considers the Ijaw/Ijoid languages to be an independent family.\n\n"}
{"id": "1897613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1897613", "title": "Inkstand", "text": "Inkstand\n\nAn inkstand is a stand or tray used to house writing instruments, with a tightly-capped inkwell and a sand shaker for rapid drying. A penwiper would often be included, and from the mid-nineteenth century, a compartment for steel nibs, which replaced quill pens. Inkstands with tightly closing lids, often finely made, were part and parcel of a traveling kit, until the widespread use of the fountain pen. Inkstands were going out of use before the development of ballpoint pen, which finished them as a primary source of ink.\n\nThe Syng inkstand, made in 1752 by Philip Syng, was used by the American delegates to sign both the Declaration of Independence in 1776 and the United States Constitution in 1787.\n\n"}
{"id": "26845598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26845598", "title": "Jan Lauwereyns", "text": "Jan Lauwereyns\n\nJan Lauwereyns (born 13 May 1969), full name Johan Marc José Lauwereyns, is a writer and scientist. As a cognitive neuroscientist, he specializes in the voluntary control of attention and decision making. He has published articles in journals such as \"Nature\", \"Neuron\", and \"Trends in Cognitive Sciences\", and the monographs \"The Anatomy of Bias\" and \"Brain and the Gaze\" with The MIT Press. As a multilingual poet, he gained an international reputation for innovative work.\n\nLauwereyns was born in Antwerp, Belgium. He obtained his PhD at the Catholic University of Leuven, Belgium, in 1998 with a thesis on the intentionality of visual selective attention. He has since conducted research and lectured on the neural mechanisms of perception and decision making at several institutes, including the U.S. National Institutes of Health (Bethesda, Maryland), Juntendo University (Tokyo, Japan), and Victoria University of Wellington (Wellington, New Zealand). He is currently Professor in the Faculty of Arts and Science and in the Graduate School of Systems Life Sciences at Kyushu University (Fukuoka, Japan).\n\nIn 2010, The MIT Press published his monograph \"The Anatomy of Bias\", an integrative account of the structure and function of bias and sensitivity. Lauwereyns connects findings and ideas in neuroscience to analogous concepts in psychonanalysis, literary theory, philosophy of mind, and experimental economics. The book \"offers a 'point of entry' in a fascinating field and a source of inspiration for further research\" and represents \"a remarkable amalgam of science and poetry, one that ultimately serves the interest not only of truth but of beauty and goodness as well.\"\nA second monograph, \"Brain and the Gaze\", followed in 2012, also published by The MIT Press. This book, like the previous, offers an integration of perspectives from philosophy, psychology, and neuroscience; this time focusing on active vision. Here, Lauwereyns develops \"The Intensive Approach\", \"a smart and reasonable combination of classic computational theories of perception (a la Marr) that say that vision is essentially a top-down process, and less conservative accounts (a la Noë) that emphasise the pervasive sensorimotor nature of perceptual experience and the role that (bottom-up) sensorimotor engagements play in visual processes. The intensive approach to vision is therefore a (top-down, bottom-up) approach that highlights the deeply interactive nature of perceptual awareness, while assigning a fundamental role to observer-dependent biases and to internal mechanisms in the processing of perceptual experience.\"\n\nLauwereyns has published single-author volumes of poetry in his native language, Dutch, and in Japanese and English. He has received several prizes and nominations for his work in Dutch, most notably the VSB Poetry Prize 2012. He was also awarded grants from the Flemish Literature Fund and Creative New Zealand. According to the Flemish Literature Fund, his \"analytical approach of poetic subjects produces a remarkable effect: funny, incisive and unsettling all at once. It is a poetry of crackling brain cells\". Lauwereyns is Associate Editor of the Belgian literary journal DW \"B\", and often works in collaboration with other writers and artists, including Leo Vroman, Patricia de Martelaere, Rachel Levitsky, Arkadii Dragomoshchenko, Anne-Mie Van Kerckhoven, Kiwao Nomura, and Michael Palmer.\n\nThe poetry of Lauwereyns \"embodies a relationship with the impossibility of perfection. The formal experiment of writing (sometimes in collaboration, in a range of languages) substantiates, up to a point and never completely, the insistent presence of absence. Forms temporarily affirm certainty, but never entirely or lastingly so: 'The lake won't actually fit on the page.'\"\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33470444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33470444", "title": "Jukun Takum language", "text": "Jukun Takum language\n\nJukun (\"Njikum\"), or more precisely Jukun Takum, is a Jukunoid language of Cameroon used as a trade language in Nigeria. Though there are only a few thousand native speakers, and only a dozen in Nigeria (as of 2000), it is spoken as a second language in Nigeria by tens of thousands (40,000 reported in 1979).\n\nThe name \"Jukun\" is a cover term for several related Jukunoid languages, such as the much-more-numerous Jukun Wapan.\n"}
{"id": "38407528", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38407528", "title": "Jumli language", "text": "Jumli language\n\nJumli is a language of Nepal closely related to Nepali, and sometimes considered a dialect of it, though they are not close enough to understand complex discourse. Dialects include Chaudhabis, Sinja, Asi and Paanchsai.\n"}
{"id": "47505722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47505722", "title": "Kinnauri, Chitkuli", "text": "Kinnauri, Chitkuli\n\nChitkuli Kinnauri is a language spoken in Kinnaur district of Himachal Pradesh, India Page text. It is spoken in two villages in Sangla districts of Kinnaur - Chitkul and Rakchham villages. It is classified under Sino-Tibetan, Tibeto-Burman, Western Tibeto-Burman, Bodish, West Himalayish, Kinauri Page text. The number of speakers as per Ethnologue (data is from a survey) is 1060 in 1998.\n\n"}
{"id": "2637552", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2637552", "title": "Krasnodon", "text": "Krasnodon\n\nKrasnodon (Ukrainian, Russian: Краснодон) is a city in Luhansk Oblast (region) of eastern Ukraine. It is incorporated as a city of oblast significance and serves as the administrative center of Krasnodon Raion (district), though it does not belong to the raion. Its population is approximately .\n\nPopulation of Krasnodon in 1972 was 70,400, in 1989 it was around 53,000, in 2001 it was 49,921.\n\nIn 2016 the city was renamed into Sorokyne (; ) as part of decommunization in Ukraine. The city's name change process is temporarily suspended as it is not controlled by the government of Ukraine.\n\nKrasnodon was established in 1914 along the banks of the Velyka Kamyanka, a tributary of the Seversky Donets River, as the settlement of Sorokino. It soon became one of the centers of the coal mining industry of the Donbass region. By the \"Decision of the Presidium of the Supreme Soviet of the USSR\", on 28 October 1938 it was renamed to \"Krasnodon\".\n\nDuring the German-Soviet War, Krasnodon was occupied by Nazi Germany from July 20, 1942 to February 14, 1943. The Soviet Komsomol organization resistance Young Guard operated in the city from October 1942 to January 1943, when most of its members were arrested and executed. The \"Young Guard\" are commemorated with monuments and a memorial complex in Krasnodon.\n\nSince 2014, Krasnodon has been controlled by the Luhansk People's Republic and not by Ukrainian authorities. NATO released satellite data from 21 August 2014 and confirmed it showed a large column of armoured vehicles crossing into Ukraine from Russia through Krasnodon.\n\nAs of the Ukrainian Census of 2001:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "908947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=908947", "title": "Laal language", "text": "Laal language\n\nLaal is an endangered language isolate spoken by 749 people () in three villages in the Moyen-Chari prefecture of Chad on opposite banks of the Chari River, \ncalled Gori (\"lá\"), Damtar (\"ɓual\"), and Mailao. It may be a language isolate and thus would represent an isolated survival of an earlier language group of Central Africa. It is unwritten except in transcription by linguists. According to former Summer Institute of Linguistics-Chad member David Faris, it is in danger of extinction, with most people under 25 shifting to the locally more widespread Bagirmi.\n\nThis language first came to the attention of academic linguists in 1977 through Pascal Boyeldieu's fieldwork in 1975 and 1978. His fieldwork was based, for the most part, on a single speaker, M. Djouam Kadi of Damtar.\n\nThe language's speakers are mainly river fishermen and farmers, who also sell salt extracted from the ashes of doum palms and \"Vossia cuspidata\". Like their neighbours, the Niellim, they were formerly cattle herders but lost their herds around the turn of the 19th century. They are mainly Muslims, but until the latter half of the 20th century, they followed the traditional \"Yondo\" religion of the Niellim. The area is fairly undeveloped; while there are Qur'anic schools in Gori and Damtar, the nearest government school is 7 km away, and there is no medical dispensary in the region ().\n\nThe village of Damtar formerly had a distinct dialect, called Laabe (\"la:bé\"), with two or three speakers remaining in 1977; it was replaced by the dialect of Gori after two Gori families fled there at the end of the 19th century to escape a war. No other dialects of Laal are known.\n\nUnder Chadian law, Laal, like all languages of Chad other than French and Arabic, is regarded as a national language. Although the 1996 Constitution stipulates that \"the law shall fix the conditions of promotion and development of national languages\", national languages are not used for education, for official purposes, or usually for written media, but some of the larger ones (but not Laal) are used on the radio.\n\nLaal remains unclassified, although extensive Adamawa (specifically Bua) and to a lesser extent Chadic influence is found. It is sometimes grouped with one of those two language families, and sometimes seen as a language isolate. Boyeldieu (1982) summarizes his view as \"Its classification remains problematic; while it shows certain lexical, and no doubt morphological, traits with the Bua languages (Adamawa-13, Niger–Congo family of Joseph H. Greenberg), it differs from them radically in many ways of which some, \"a priori\", make one think of geographically nearby Chadic languages.\" Roger Blench (2003), similarly, considers that \"its vocabulary and morphology seem to be partly drawn from Chadic (i.e. Afro-Asiatic), partly from Adamawa (i.e. Niger–Congo) and partly from an unknown source, perhaps its original phylum, a now-vanished grouping from Central Africa.\" It is the latter possibility which attracts particular interest; if this proves true, Laal may be the only remaining window on the linguistic state of Central Africa before the expansion of the main African language families—Afro-Asiatic, Nilo-Saharan, and Niger–Congo—into it.\n\nTheir immediate neighbors speak Bua, Niellim, and Ndam. Laal contains a number of loanwords from Baguirmi, which for several centuries was the lingua franca of the region under the Baguirmi Empire, and perhaps a dozen Chadic roots, which are not similar to the Chadic languages that currently neighbor Laal. In addition, almost all Laal speak Niellim as a second language, and 20%–30% of their vocabulary is cognate with Niellim, especially agricultural vocabulary (Boyeldieu 1977, Lionnet 2010). Like the Baguirmi, the Laal are Muslims; partly because of this, some Arabic loanwords are also found. However some 60% of the vocabulary, including most core vocabulary, cannot be identified with any known language family (Lionnet 2010). Indeed, some of the words cognate with Niellim, including some basic vocabulary, is not cognate with closely related Bua, suggesting that these are not Adamawa roots but loans in Niellim from the Laal substrate (Lionnet 2010). Pozdniakov (2010) believes Laal is a distinct branch of Niger–Congo with part of its pronominal system borrowed from a Chadic language like Kera.\n\nAlternatively, it may be a language descending from a language of a group of Neolithic Near Eastern farmers who immigrated to Chad, since recent genetic studies have found that the Laal people have significant Eurasian admixture similar to Natufians and Neolithic Levantines.\n\nThe sounds of Laal are transcribed here using International Phonetic Alphabet symbols.\n\nImplosives and prenasalised stops as well as h are found only word-initially. Voiceless stops as well as s cannot occur at the end of a syllable. occurs only intervocalically and word-finally. appears exclusively in loanwords and certain numbers. Prenasalized stops as well as the implosive are extremely rare.\n\nThe vowel system for non-initial syllables is and the diphthong , with no length distinction. For initial syllables, however, it is much more complicated, allowing length distinctions and distinguishing the following additional diphthongs: (but the latter two appear only as morphologically conditioned forms of and and so are perhaps better seen as allophonic).\n\nIn addition, may occur very occasionally; Boyeldieu quotes the example of \"mỳlùg\" \"red (pl.)\".\n\nThere are three level tones: high (á), middle (a), low (à). Combinations mau occur on a single vowel, resulting in phonetic rising and falling tone, and which are phonemically sequences of level tones. Such cases are transcribed here by repeating the vowel (e.g. àá); long vowels are indicated only by a colon (e.g. a:).\n\nSuffixes may force any of four kinds of ablaut on the vowels of preceding words: raising (takes to ), lowering (takes to ), low rounding (takes and to ; and to ; , and to ), and high rounding (takes and to ; and to ; , and to ). They are transcribed in the suffix section as ↑, ↓, ↗, ↘ respectively. In some verbs, a/ə is \"raised\" to rather than, as expected, to .\n\nIn suffixes, ə and o undergo vowel harmony: they become and u respectively if the preceding vowel is one of {i, , u}. Likewise, r undergoes consonant harmony, becoming l after words containing l. Suffixes with a neutral tone copy the final tone of the word to whuch they are suffixed.\nThe typical word order can be summarised as subject–(verbal particle)–verb–object–adverb; preposition–noun; possessed–possessor; noun–adjective. Nouns can be fronted when topicalized. See the sample sentences below for examples and the conjunctions for clause syntax.\n\nNouns have plural and singular forms (the latter are perhaps better viewed as singulative in some cases), with plural formation hard to predict: \"kò:g\" \"bone\" > \"kuagmi\" \"bones\", \"tuà:r\" \"chicken\" > \"tò:rò\" \"chickens\", \"ɲaw\" \"hunger\" > \"ɲə̀wə́r\" \"hungers\". Nouns do not have arbitrary gender, but three natural genders (male, female, non-human) are distinguished by pronouns.\n\nThe possessive is expressed in two ways:\n\nHowever, if the possessor is a pronoun, it is suffixed with extensive vowel ablaut (in the first case) or prepositional forms with \"at\" and optionally the connector as well, are used (in the second case): \"na:ra ɟá ɗe:\" \"my man\" (\"man CONN. at-me\"), \"mùlù\" \"her eye\" (\"eye-her\", from \"mɨla\" \"eye\"). Some nouns (\"páw-\" \"friend\") occur only with bound pronouns and have no independent form. That is called obligatory possession and is found in many other language, usually for words referring to personal relationships. See pronouns for the relevant suffixes.\n\nA noun indicating someone who does, is, or has something can be formed with the prefix \"màr\", meaning roughly \"he/she/it who/of\": \"màr jùgòr\" \"landowner\", \"màr ce\" \"farmer\" (\"ce\" = cultivate), \"màr pál\" \"fisherman\" (\"pál\" = to fish), \"màr pàlà ta:\" \"a fisher of fish\".\n\nLaal does show traces of an old Adamawa-type noun-class system, but apart from loans, the forms do not appear to be cognate with the Adamawa system (Lionnet 2010).\n\nIn the following tables, note the distinction between inclusive and exclusive we, found in many other languages but not English, and the gender differentiation of \"I\" in certain forms. The inanimate plural has been dropped by most popular younger speakers in favour of the animate plural, but both are given below. The object paradigm for verbs is quite complex; only two of its several sets of allomorphs are given in the table below. \"He\" and \"she\" are used only for human referents; other nouns take the neuter pronoun. Tgat is quite distinct from the languages with which Laal shares vocabulary, but Laal has traces of an old Adamawa-type noun-class system (Lionnet 2010). The first- and second-person plural forms are quite similar to Chadic languages (specifically, Kera) which are currently quite distant from the Laal-speaking region, but they have no similarities to Adamawa.\n\n\"jé\" \"what?\", \"ɟè\" \"who?\", \"ɗé\" \"where?\", \"sɨ̀g\" \"how much?\".\n\nPrepositions precede their objects: \"gɨ̀ pə:l\" \"in(to) the village\", \"kɨ́ jà:ná\" \"to his body\" (=\"to near him\").\n\nThe verb does not vary according to the person or gender of the subject, but some verbs (about a quarter of the verbs attested) vary according to its number: \"no kaw\" \"the person eats\", \"mùáŋ kɨw\" \"the people eat\". The plural form of the verb is hard to predict, but is often formed by ablaut (typically raising the vowel height) with or without a suffix \"-i(ɲ)\" or \"-ɨɲ\" and tonal change. The verb, however, changes according to the direct object. It takes personal suffixes to indicate a pronominal direct object, and it commonly changes when a non-pronominal direct object is added to a transitive form with final low tone (formed similarly to the \"centripetal\", for which see below): \"ʔà ná ká\" \"he will do\"; \"ʔà ná kàrà mɨ́ná\" \"he will do something\"; \"ʔà kú na:ra\" \"he sees the man\"; \"ʔà kúù:rùúŋ\" \"he sees you (pl.)\".\n\nThe verb has three basic forms: simple, \"centripetal\", and \"participative\" to calque Boyeldieu's terminology. The simple form is used in the simple present tense or the imperative: \"ʔà duàg jə́w gə̀m\" \"he goes down the riverbank\" (lit. \"he descend mouth riverbank\"). The \"centripetal\" indicates action \"hither\", either spatially, motion towards the speaker, or temporally, action up to the present moment; it is formed mainly by suffixing a vowel (often, but not always, identical to the last vowel in the word): \"ʔà duàgà jə́w gə̀m\" \"he comes down the riverbank (towards me)\". The \"participative\", generally formed like the centripetal but with final high tone, generally indicates an omitted object or instrument: \"ʔà sá ɗa:g ʔà sɨ̀rɨ́ su\" \"he takes a calabash and drinks water with it\" (lit. \"he take calabash he drink-participative water\").\n\nImmediately before the verb, a particle may be placed to indicate forms other than a simple present tense; such particles include \"ná\" (pl. \"ní\") marking future tense, \"taá:/teé:\" (pl. \"tií:\") marking continuous action, \"wáa:\" (pl. \"wíi:\") marking motion, \"náa:\" (pl. \"níi:\") being apparently a combination of \"ná\" and \"wáa:\", \"mà\" (pl. \"mì\") meaning \"must\", \"mɨ́\" marking reported speech (apparently an evidential), \"mɨ́nà\" (pl. \"mínì\") expressing intention, \"kò\" marking habitual action, \"ɓə́l\" or \"ga\" (pl. \"gi\") marking incomplete action, and \"wó\" (always accompanied by \"ʔàle\" after the verb) meaning \"maybe\".\n\nMediopassives (see passive voice, middle voice) can be formed from transitive verbs by adding a suffix \"-↑ɨ́ɲ\": \"no siár sà:b\" \"someone ripped the cloth\" > \"sà:b sérɨ́ɲ\" \"the cloth ripped\". For the inverse, forming transitive verbs from intransitives, changes in tone or to the plural sometimes occur.\n\nVerbal nouns can sometimes be formed, mainly from intransitives, by the addition of a suffix -(vowel)\"l\", sometimes with ablaut and tone change: '\"wal\" \"fall\" > \"wàlál\" \"a fall\", \"sùbá\" \"lie\" > \"sɨ́blál\" (pl. \"súbɨ̀r\") \"a lie\". The \"l\" becomes \"n\" near a nasal and \"r\" near \"r\": \"man\" \"taste good\", \"manan\" \"a good taste\".\n\nAdjectives do not seem to constitute an independent category in Laal; to all intents and purposes, they behave just like verbs: \"gò: ʔì:r\" \"the goat is black\". Attributively, they are typically linked as a relative clause: \"gò: má ʔì:r\" \"the black goat\" (literally \"goat which black\".)\n\nNumbers include \"ɓɨ̀dɨ́l\" \"one\", \"ʔisi\" \"two\", \"ɓisan\" \"four\". No other numbers are given specifically in the works so far published.\n\nAdverbs generally come at the end of the clause. Here are some important adverbs:\n\nAdverbs of location:\n\nTemporal adverbs:\n\nHere are the most important modals:\n\n\nConjunctions can be divided into five types:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4176923", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4176923", "title": "Lagometer", "text": "Lagometer\n\nA lagometer is a display of network latency on an Internet connection and of rendering by the client. Lagometers are commonly found in computer games or IRC where timing plays a large role. Quake and derived games commonly have them.\n\nAdvanced lagometer consists of two lines - bottom and top. The bottom line advances one pixel per each snapshot received from server (by default they are being sent at 20 snapshots per second rate), while the top one advances one pixel per each frame that is rendered by client. Thus, if the machine framerate was 20 per second, both lines - top and bottom - would run at the same speed.\n\nBottom bars correspond to delay before sending a snapshot by a server and receiving it by a client (so called \"ping\"). The shorter the bar, the smaller the ping was. Red bars mean that the frame has not arrived on time, yellow ones - that the snapshot was suppressed to stay under the rate limit.\nTop bars can be drawn in blue or in yellow. While server snapshots are usually received at lower rate as the client framerate, the software interpolates position and movements until it gets an update from a server, when it adjusts own state accordingly.\nThe height of upper bars is proportional to the interpolated time between snapshots received (so as long as they come regularly, it stays below the \"zero line\" and is drawn in blue), or - if snapshots stop to arrive on time - is extrapolated after the last snapshot expected (then bars cross the \"zero line\" and are drawn in yellow).\nIf those bars stay yellow for too long, client is forced to interpolate its frames beyond the \"reasonable level\" and finally, when the snapshot arrives, the prediction turns out to hardly correspond to the server-side version, which results in a jerky, noncontinuous movement of scenery (obviously lowering the quality of gameplay).\n\nSome games that use a \"lagometer\" will simply remove a player from the game if their lag is too high.\nIn the game Minecraft, the lagometer is displayed on the debug menu, as a line graph that will go up when lag spikes.\nUse the following console commands for the following games:\n"}
{"id": "2491826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2491826", "title": "List of Malayalam-language newspapers", "text": "List of Malayalam-language newspapers\n\n\"Rajyasamacharam\" was the first newspaper in Malayalam. This was started for religious propagation by Hermann Gundert under the Christian missionaries of Basel Mission in June 1847 from Illikkunnu in Thalassery. \"Pashchimodayam\" was the second newspaper in Malayalam. It started in October 1847 from Thalasseri. \"Deepika\", the oldest Malayalam newspaper now in circulation, was established in 1887. \"Malayala Manorama\", \"Madhyamam\", \"Mathrubhumi\", \"Deshabhimani\", \"Kerala Kaumudi\" and \"Janayugom\" are the other major newspapers in Malayalam. \"Malayala Manorama\" holds the record for the largest selling regional language newspaper in India. It is also the 11th most circulating newspaper in the world.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12103096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12103096", "title": "Maasina Fulfulde", "text": "Maasina Fulfulde\n\nMaasina Fulfulde (or Maasinankoore in the language itself) is a Fula language spoken primarily as a first language by Fula people and associated groups in the Inner Niger Delta area traditionally known as Macina in the center of what is now the West African state of Mali. It is also spoken elsewhere in Mali, parts of Cote d'Ivoire and Northern Ghana. \n\nMaasinankoore is the most widely spoken dialect of Fula spoken in Mali and is a national language of the country.\n\nAccording to \"Ethnologue\" there are two dialects - Western and Eastern - and \"There are some dialect differences, but popular opinion is that all dialects in Mali are inherently intelligible.\"\n\nIt is written in a modified Latin alphabet but historically was written in the Arabic script.\n\nMaasina Fulfulde is grammatically basically the same as other varieties of Fula, with some particularities. For instance there are some slight differences in some verb endings. \n\nThe counting system retains an interesting recapitulation of older systems historically used by other groups in what is now Mali. Tens from 60-90 have alternative versions not used in other varieties of Fula. In the table the general form, which would be understood by any Fulaphone person (basically counting by tens) and Maasina variant:\n\nA progressive verbal expression is formed by inserting the word \"ni\" before the verb in the non-accomplished voice. For example, \"omo ni wara\" = s/he is coming (right now). \n\nAs in other varieties of Fula, common greetings in Maasinankoore relate to the time of day. In addition to the standard Fula response - \"jam tan\" (lit., \"peace only\") - one may also respond \"jam ni\" (lit., peace here) or \"sago men tan\" (var. \"sago meɗen tan\"; lit. \"our [incl.] wish only\"). \n\nA common general greeting is \"saɗi\" (when addressed to more than one person, \"caɗee\"; lit. it's difficult or rare or dear). The standard response to this is \"a hisii\" (lit., you have escaped danger).\n\n"}
{"id": "32698535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32698535", "title": "Mbosi language", "text": "Mbosi language\n\nMbosi (Mboshi) is a Bantu language spoken in the Republic of Congo.\n"}
{"id": "33608405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33608405", "title": "Mesme language", "text": "Mesme language\n\nMesmé is an Afro-Asiatic language of Chad. \"Zime\" (Djime) is a generic name.\n"}
{"id": "38906499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906499", "title": "Ministry of Stories", "text": "Ministry of Stories\n\nThe Ministry of Stories is a non-profit organisation in East London dedicated to helping children and young adults develop writing skills and to helping teachers inspire their students to write.\n\nLocated in Hoxton, a district in the London Borough of Hackney, England, The Ministry of Stories was founded in 2010 by the British author Nick Hornby and co-directors Lucy Macnab and Ben Payne. The company provides mentoring and advice to young writers, relying on the work of volunteer writers, teachers and artists. The MoS aims to inspire young people to transform their lives through creative writing. The company works closely with schools, supporting teachers, but also provides one-to-one mentoring for young people to enjoy imaginative stories, improve language skills, increase abilities in communication, and develop social and educational confidence.\n\nAs of late 2012, 5,000 young people have taken part in activities sponsored by the MoS. About 500 trained volunteers have contributed to the effort, as have writers including Joe Dunthorne, David Nicholls and Zadie Smith, as well as actors Colin Firth and Emma Thompson.\n\nThe MoS is patterned after Dave Eggers' 826 Valencia, founded in 2002 in San Francisco, and Roddy Doyle's Fighting Words, founded in 2009 in Dublin.\n\nThe MoS receives funding from the Arts Council England.\n\nThe MoS is located behind its Hoxton Street Monster Supplies, a sweets and oddities shop selling Fang Floss, jars of Human Snot and cans marked Creeping Dread and Escalating Panic.\n\n"}
{"id": "21118575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21118575", "title": "News analytics", "text": "News analytics\n\nNews analysis refers to the measurement of the various qualitative and quantitative attributes of textual (unstructured data) news stories. Some of these attributes are: sentiment, relevance, and novelty. Expressing news stories as numbers and metadata permits the manipulation of everyday information in a mathematical and statistical way.\n\nNews analytics are usually derived through automated text analysis and applied to digital texts using elements from natural language processing and machine learning such as latent semantic analysis, support vector machines, \"bag of words\" among other techniques.\n\nThe application of sophisticated linguistic analysis to news and social media has grown from an area of research to mature product solutions since 2007. News analytics and news sentiment calculations are now routinely used by both buy-side and sell side in alpha generation, trading execution, risk management, and market surveillance and compliance. There is however a good deal of variation in the quality, effectiveness and completeness of currently available solutions.\n\nA large number of companies use news analysis to help them make better business decisions. Academic researchers have become interested in news analysis especially with regards to predicting stock price movements, volatility and traded volume. Provided a set of values such as sentiment and relevance as well as the frequency of news arrivals, it is possible to construct news sentiment scores for multiple asset classes such as equities, Forex, fixed income, and commodities. Sentiment scores can be constructed at various horizons to meet the different needs and objectives of high and low frequency trading strategies, whilst characteristics such as direction and volatility of asset returns as well as the traded volume may be addressed more directly via the construction of tailor-made sentiment scores. Scores are generally constructed as a range of values. For instance, values may range between 0 and 100, where values above and below 50 convey positive and negative sentiment, respectively. Based on such sentiment scores, it should be possible to generate a set of strategies useful for instance within investing, hedging, and order execution.\n\nThe objective of absolute return strategies is absolute (positive) returns regardless of the direction of the financial market. To meet this objective, such strategies typically involve opportunistic long and short positions in selected instruments with zero or limited market exposure. In statistical terms, absolute return strategies should have very low correlation with the market return. Typically, hedge funds tend to employ absolute return strategies. Below, a few examples show how news analysis can be applied in the absolute return strategy space with the purpose to identify alpha opportunities applying a market neutral strategy or based on volatility trading.\n\nExample 1\n\nScenario: The gap between the news sentiment scores for direction, formula_1, of Company formula_2 and Market formula_3 has moved beyond formula_4. That is, formula_5 ≥ formula_6.\n\nAction: Buy the stock on Company formula_2 and short the future on Market formula_3.\n\nExit Strategy: When the gap in the news sentiment scores for direction of Company formula_2 and Market formula_3 has disappeared, formula_5 = formula_12, sell the stock on Company formula_2 and go long the future on Market formula_3 to close the positions.\n\nExample 2\n\nScenario: The news sentiment score for volatility of Company formula_2 goes above formula_16 out of formula_17 indicating an expected volatility above the option implied volatility.\n\nAction: Buy a short-dated straddle (the purchase of both a put and a call) on the stock of Company \nformula_2.\n\nExit Strategy: Keep the straddle on Company formula_2 until expiry or until a certain profit target has been reached.\n\nThe objective of relative return strategies is to either replicate (passive management) or outperform (active management) a theoretical passive reference portfolio or benchmark. To meet these objectives such strategies typically involve long positions in selected instruments. In statistical terms, relative return strategies often have high correlation with the market return. Typically, mutual funds tend to employ relative return strategies. Below, a few examples show how news analysis can be applied in the relative return strategy space with the purpose to outperform the market applying a stock picking strategy and by making tactical tilts to ones asset allocation model.\n\nExample 1\n\nScenario: The news sentiment score for direction of Company formula_2 goes above formula_16 out of formula_17.\n\nAction: Buy the stock on Company formula_2.\n\nExit Strategy: When the news sentiment score for direction of Company formula_2 falls below formula_25, sell the stock on Company formula_2 to close the position.\n\nExample 2\n\nScenario: The news sentiment score for direction of Sector formula_27 goes above formula_16 out of formula_17.\n\nAction: Include Sector formula_27 as a tactical bet in the asset allocation model.\n\nExit Strategy: When the news sentiment score for direction of Sector formula_27 falls below formula_25, remove the tactical bet for Sector formula_27 from the asset allocation model.\n\nThe objective of financial risk management is to create economic value in a firm or to maintain a certain risk profile of an investment portfolio by using financial instruments to manage risk exposures, particularly credit risk and market risk. Other types include Foreign exchange, Shape, Volatility, Sector, Liquidity, Inflation risks, etc. As a specialization of risk management, financial risk management focuses on when and how to hedge using financial instruments to manage costly exposures to risk. Below, a few examples show how news analysis can be applied in the financial risk management space with the purpose to either arrive at better risk estimates in terms of Value at Risk (VaR) or to manage the risk of a portfolio to meet ones portfolio mandate.\n\nExample 1\n\nScenario: The bank operates a VaR model to manage the overall market risk of its portfolio.\n\nAction: Estimate the portfolio covariance matrix taking into account the development of the news sentiment score for volume. Implement the relevant hedges to bring the VaR of the bank in line with the desired levels.\n\nExample 2\n\nScenario: A portfolio manager operates his portfolio towards a certain desired risk profile.\n\nAction: Estimate the portfolio covariance matrix taking into account the development of the news sentiment score for volume. Scale the portfolio exposure according to the targeted risk profile.\n\nThe objective of algorithmic order execution, which is part of the concept of algorithmic trading, is to reduce trading costs by optimizing on the timing of a given order. It is widely used by hedge funds, pension funds, mutual funds, and other institutional traders to divide up large trades into several smaller trades to manage market impact, opportunity cost, and risk more effectively. The example below shows how news analysis can be applied in the algorithmic order execution space with the purpose to arrive at more efficient algorithmic trading systems.\n\nExample 1\n\nScenario: A large order needs to be placed in the market for the stock on Company formula_2.\n\nAction: Scale the daily volume distribution for Company formula_2 applied in the algorithmic trading system, thus taking into account the news sentiment score for volume. This is followed by the creation of the desired trading distribution forcing greater market participation during the periods of the day when volume is expected to be heaviest.\n\nBeing able to express news stories as numbers permits the manipulation of everyday information in a statistical way that allows computers not only to make decisions once made only by humans, but to do so more efficiently. Since market participants are always looking for an edge, the speed of computer connections and the delivery of news analysis, measured in milliseconds, have become essential.\n\n"}
{"id": "25768429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25768429", "title": "Noticing hypothesis", "text": "Noticing hypothesis\n\nThe noticing hypothesis is a concept in second-language acquisition proposed by Richard Schmidt in 1990. He stated that learners cannot learn the grammatical features of a language unless they notice them. Noticing alone does not mean that learners automatically acquire language; rather, the hypothesis states that noticing is the essential starting point for acquisition. There is debate over whether learners must consciously notice something, or whether the noticing can be subconscious to some degree.\n\nThe noticing hypothesis has received criticism from John Truscott, on two grounds. First, he argues that the basis for the noticing hypothesis in cognitive psychology is unclear. Second, he argues that there is even less certainty over how to interpret the noticing hypothesis in the field of language acquisition. He says that, \"[p]artly because the hypothesis is not based on any coherent theory of language, it is very difficult to determine exactly what it means in this context, or to draw testable predictions from it.\" Truscott argues that the noticing hypothesis should be limited to describing metalinguistic knowledge and not overall language competence.\n"}
{"id": "26456883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26456883", "title": "Old Norse morphology", "text": "Old Norse morphology\n\nOld Norse has three categories of verbs (strong, weak, & present-preterite) and two categories of nouns (strong, weak). Conjugation and declension are carried out by a mix of inflection and two nonconcatenative morphological processes: umlaut, a backness-based alteration to the root vowel; and ablaut, a replacement of the root vowel, in verbs.\n\nNouns, adjectives and pronouns are declined in four grammatical cases – nominative, accusative, genitive and dative, in singular and plural. Some pronouns (first and second person) have dual number in addition to singular and plural. The nouns have three grammatical genders – masculine, feminine or neuter - and adjectives and pronouns are declined to match the gender of nouns. The genitive is used partitively, and quite often in compounds and kennings (e.g.: \"Urðarbrunnr\", the well of Urðr; \"Lokasenna\", the gibing of Loki). Most declensions (of nouns and pronouns) use \"-a\" as a regular genitive plural ending, and all declensions use \"-um\" as their dative plural ending.\n\nAll neuter words have identical nominative and accusative forms, and all feminine words have identical nominative and accusative plurals.\n\nThe gender of some words' plurals does not agree with that of their singulars, such as \"lim\" and \"mund\".\n\nConditioned sound changes can cause some forms of a word to mismatch, or match in some words but not others. When speakers can't determine these conditions, but the effects remain, they are re-analyzed by speakers as rules for changing sounds during inflection, the \"morphophonology\" of the language. In this way, the history of a language affects its speakers.\n\nVerner's law shifted Proto-Germanic /*h/ > /*g/ after an unstressed syllable. Afterwards, stress shifted to the first syllable in all words. In many Old Norse verbs, a lost /g/ reappears in the forms of some verbs, which makes their morphology abnormal, but remain regular because the forms containing /g/s are the same for each verb they appear in.\n\nUmlaut was originally an assimilation of root vowels to suffixes having the front phonemes /i, j/ (i-umlaut) and the back phonemes /u, w/ (u-umlaut) in Proto-Germanic. The suffixes were not on all forms of the same words, so when the suffixes underwent syncope during the transition into Old Norse, the remaining umlaut of the vowel indicated what the suffix had before. From then on speakers would alternate the vowel as an act of inflection.\n\nVerbs are conjugated in person and number, in present and past tense, in indicative, imperative and subjunctive mood. There are elements of repetition and minor variation in the inflections, but the type of verb also determines which patterns are present. The subjunctives show the largest and widest spread pattern among the inflections, with both strong and weak classes ending subjunctives (past and present) with ek/þú/þat -a/-ir/-i, vér/þér/þau -im/-ið/-i, except for a minor variation in the 3rd, 4th and 5th strong conjugations.\n\nThe active participle is used to form a gerund or a verbal noun with weak masculine singulars but strong masculine plurals in \"r\", or else with weak neuter declension. As a plain participle, it is a weak adjective. The participle appears in two genders within the same verse in Hávamál: \"gínanda úlfi / galandi kráku.\" The general sense of the noun is of the English suffix \"-er\" or of being able to perform the action. The plural as a prefix, \"ęndr-\", is equivalent to the English and Latin prefix \"re-\".\n\nThe case of the object of an Old Norse verb is lexically assigned, meaning that the case is determined on a per-verb basis. Most verbs take an accusative object, but some, such as \"gefa\" (give) have primary and secondary objects in the accusative and dative, while still others have nominative, genitive, or dative direct objects.\n\nStrong verbs, unlike weak verbs, are conjugated by ablaut, a process that replaces, rather than modifies, their root vowel. The English \"sing\" uses ablaut to conjugate to \"sang\" in the past tense and \"sung\" as the past participle. Like weak verbs, strong verbs use inflections and umlaut, but they rely on them much less to distinguish forms and conjugations. While the strongs' umlaut and inflectional patterns are largely the same from verb to verb, there are different sets and numbers of vowels involved in ablaut, and so their patterns are used to classify the strong conjugations.\n\nIf there are 2 vowels in the pattern (as in the 6th & some 7th conjugation patterns), the 2nd is used for all the past forms. If there are 3, the 2nd vowel is used for the indicative past singulars, & the 3rd for the other past tenses. The 1st vowel is used for the remaining forms: the infinitive, present forms, and imperative, and usually the past participle of 3-vowel words. However, some 3-vowel words have a 4th vowel appearing only in the participle.\n\nThe past participle of strong verbs follows the pronominal declension of \"hit\", though unlike the definite suffix the participle is inherited from Proto-Germanic.\n\nThe 3rd, 4th and 5th conjugations have an \"i\", rather than an \"a\", in the 1st person subjunctive past ending. Third conjugation words ending in \"n, g,\" or \"k\" have a \"u\" for their past participles' root vowel. The \"ja\"s of the 3rd conjugation are due to breaking. The 4th and 5th conjugations are identical except in the past participle, where the 4th conjugation normally has \"o\" and the fifth conjugation \"e\". Generally, 3rd conjugation stems have two consonants following the vowel; 4th conjugation stems have a single sonorant consonant (\"l, r, m\" or \"n\") following the vowel; and 5th conjugation stems have a single consonant that is not a sonorant.\n\nThe 6th conjugation is cognate with English's \"take/took/taken\" conjugation. The 7th conjugation is a heterogenous category. Its ablaut patterns include \"a/á, e/é; au, jó; a, jó, jo;\" and \"ý, jó, ú\".\n\nThe \"-ra\" conjugation consists of strong verbs with weak preterites that use an \"r\" rather than a dental in their inflection. These arose as contractions of reduplicated verbs. They correspond to modern Icelandic ri-verbs. When the pre-contraction form of the verb contained a velar, it persisted in the past indicative plurals, past subjunctives, and past participle, and the verb assumed the characteristics (ablaut, inflection) of normal strong conjugation. Alternate, regularized past-tenses for these were also in use in some dialects, with an \"-ø-r\" or \"-e-r\" format. Verbs like \"kjósa\" and \"snúa\" follow the \"ú/jú/jó, au, u, (o)\" ablaut pattern, and verbs like \"slá\" follow the \"a, ó\" ablaut.\n\nThe forms of \"slá\" without the \"g\" have absorbed said consonant, lengthening the vowel in the process. When this process is taken into account, the conjugation can be seen as that of a regular verb with an \"a, ó\" ablaut pattern. The \"-ø-r\" past tense forms were used in some dialects, with \"sløri\" and \"sløru\" as attested forms, but was rare in writing.\n\nWeak verbs distinguish the tenses of the indicative and subjunctive primarily by adding a suffix with a dental (t, d, or ð). This is the primary mode of distinction of tenses, in contrast with the radical vowel changes characteristic of the strong verbs. Preceded by the dental, the subjunctive past tense endings take the form of their present tense endings, changing the inflectional vowel to \"i\" in the plural. The indicative forms take the subjunctive forms, changing the inflectional vowel to \"u\" in the plural. The dental is preceded by an \"a\" in some verbs, causing the past tenses to become trisyllabic.\n\nThere are three primary conjugations, corresponding approximately to the first three classes of weak verbs in Gothic. The Proto-Germanic and Gothic Class IV weak verb, with a \"*-n(ō)-\" suffix, has been incorporated into the second conjugation in Old Norse.\n\nThe first weak conjugation has an \"-i/j-\" suffix, which triggers i-umlaut of the stem. As in other Germanic languages, there are two subclasses, depending on whether the stem is short (consisting of a short vowel followed by at more one consonant) or long (containing a long vowel or diphthong, or followed by two or more consonants). The differences are due to Sievers' law, which caused the suffix to assume the form \"*-j-\" after short syllables but \"*-ij-\" after long syllables. The long \"*-ij-\" suffix subsequently disappeared when followed by a vowel that remained in Old Norse (except after \"k\", \"g\" or a vowel, as in \"fylgja\" \"to follow\"), but betrays its former presence by i-umlauting the stem syllable.\n\nWhen the stem was directly followed by a consonant, it was vocalized, becoming \"*-i-\" after short syllables and \"*-ī-\" after long syllables. Short \"*-i-\" was lost early on in many circumstances, before the operation of i-umlaut; as a result, short-stem verbs lack i-umlaut in the indicative past and the past participle. Umlaut does occur in the subjunctive past of the short-stem verbs, either as a result of the \"-j/ī-\" that originally occurred in the subjunctive endings or by analogy with the strong verbs. (Contrast Gothic, where the \"-i-\" stem is still preserved, and Old English, where i-umlaut operated early enough that all first-weak verbs, both short and long, have consistent i-umlaut throughout the paradigm.)\n\nMany 2nd conjugation verbs are derived by i-umlaut of the second ablaut form of a strong verb, often serving as a causal equivalent to it. (This derives directly from the Proto-Indo-European causative-iterative construction.) For example, \"bręnna — to make burn\" derives from \"brenna/brinna (ek brann, þau brunnu) — to burn; be burning\". The \"-ing\" & \"-ingr\" suffixes are added to a finite form of some of these verbs to derive feminine and masculine nouns from them. The \"-ning\" & \"-ningr\" can also be used to derive feminine and masculine nouns in short-stem verbs, and are added to a non-umlauted form of the verbs, e.g. \"spurning\" \"a question\" from \"spyrja\" \"to ask\".\n\nThe second conjugation is marked by a consistent \"-a-\" suffix, with no i-umlaut. It contains a class of derivates with characteristic suffixes: inchoatives in \"-na\", such as \"vakna\"; causals in \"-ga\" from adjectives in \"-igr\"; causals in \"-ka\"; iteratives in \"-sa\"; verbs in \"-la\", a kind of diminutive; and verbs in \"-ja\", \"-va\", and \"-ra\". The \"-n\" suffix is applied to the infinitive of some of these verbs to derive feminine nouns from them. The inflections containing \"ǫð\" (see table) may spell and pronounce the \"ǫ\" as a reduced \"u\" or an \"a\" depending on the dialect.\n\nThe third conjugation is generally marked by an \"-i-\" in the present tense, and no suffix in the past tense. This \"-i-\" does not trigger i-umlaut, as it derives from Proto-Germanic \"*-ai-\". However, subjunctive preterites do have i-umlaut, either as a result of the \"*-j/ī-\" that originally occurred in the subjunctive endings or by analogy with the strong verbs.\n\nPresent-preterite, or present-in-past, verbs form their present tenses using the ablaut patterns of strong verbs' past tenses. Their past tenses are formed like weak verbs'.\n\nThe reflexive pronoun's accusative, \"sik\", is contracted and suffixed to the verb as \"-k, -sk, or -zk\" in order to form the reflexive suffix. This suffix is often referred to as Old Norse's \"middle voice.\" In the early 13th century, the suffixes became \"-z\" and \"-s\", and later \"-zt\" and \"-zst\". As a middle voice, it can be thought of as passivizing an action without using passive voice syntax. This usage of reflexivity is paralleled in English with sentence pairs such as \"he sat down\" and \"he sat himself down.\"\n\nOld Norse and other Germanic languages had two types of regular declension. They are called the strong and weak declensions by analogy with the strong and weak conjugations. These declensions are further subdivided into stem classes: groups of nouns distinguished by the historical or present morphophonological characteristics that the nouns of each class's stems share(d). Their names take after their Proto-Germanic or Proto-Indo-European ancestors, and refer to the suffixes present on those older nouns. Because umlaut was caused by these suffixes, there is a strong correlation between the phonetic characteristics of the suffix and the type of umlaut seen among stems of a class. Besides the latter classification, the stems may be grouped into the \"root noun, consonant stem,\" and \"vocalic stem\" declensions, in Proto-Germanic terms.\n\nIn Proto-Germanic, the neuter stems modeled their nominative/accusative \"singulars\" after masculine accusative singulars, while their nominative/accusative \"plurals\" were modeled after the nominative singular of the corresponding feminine declension.\nOld Norse has 2 strong neuter declensions, and 3 strong masculine and feminine declensions. The masculine and feminine declensions may be referred to as the \"a\", \"i,\" and \"r\" declensions, after their nominative plural inflections of \"-ar\", \"-ir,\" and \"-r\", respectively.\n\nThough the \"a\"-declension masculines tend towards a genitive \"-s\", and the \"i-\" and \"r-\"declension words towards \"-ar\", many words are found going against the norm. \"Grautr\", \"skógr\", and \"hǫfundr\", for example, are \"a\"-declension nouns with \"-ar\" for a genitive singular. The \"-i\" of the dative singular is frequently dropped from many words, particularly in the \"i\"-declension. Bisyllabic proper names in \"-arr\" (Einarr) or \"-urr\" (Gizurr) do not contract as \"hamarr\" does before an inflectional syllable, due to differing etymologies. The following words demonstrate two PIE \"o\"-stem reflexes, one bisyllabic, a \"yo\"-stem reflex, and an \"iyo\"-stem reflex. The latter stem type consists mainly of poetic words.\n\nAmong the i-declension masculines are the wa-stem reflexes. These have a u-umlauted root caused by a radical \"v\".\n\nThe strong feminines descend from PIE ā stems. PIE \"-ā\" developed into PGmc. \"-ō\" and finally Proto-Norse \"-u,\" leading to the singulars of these words being u-umlauted under that inflection's influence. Their plurals are the same as those of the analogous masculine declension, except for the nominative and accusative being the same. The ending \"-ir\" of the i-stems, as in \"tíð\" - \"tíðir\", while not exemplified in the table below, is in fact more common in feminines than the ending of ō-stems \"-ar\", and has become increasingly so by analogy; thus the example \"gjǫf\" in the table in later texts replaces its old plural form \"gjafar\" with \"gjafir\". A dative singular \"u\" inflection is found in some nouns, most noticeably in the i-declension where it is sometimes accompanied by an accusative singular \"u\". Some nouns, prominently among nouns in the same declension as \"ęrmr\", carry a nominative singular \"r\" inflection; surprisingly, these are the descendants of the Proto-Germanic \"ijō\"-stems (i.e. long \"jō\"-stems, as opposed to the short counterpart seen below in the example \"Hęl\"), which historically lacked that ending; it seems that they have acquired it through confusion with the i-stems such as \"tíð\", which did originally have it. Conversely, the i-stems have lost the nominative -r ending through analogy with ō-stem feminines. Finally, many nouns do not have any inflectional distinctions among the singulars except from the genitive. Under these circumstances the case system aligns with that of most English nouns. e.g.: \"A mouse's (G) mouse (N) gave a mouse (A) to a mouse (D).\"\n\nThe neuter declensions' genitive and dative mirror the masculine \"a\" declension's. The nom./acc. plural is u-umlauted from the singulars, but this only alters nouns with \"a\" as their root, leaving number indistinct in many strong neuters for these cases. PGmc \"-ja\" stem reflexes, such as \"nęs\" and \"klæði,\" are umlauted without regard to stem weight.\n\nOne main feature of weak nouns is that they do not distinguish the non-nominative singular cases from each other. This effectively forms a nominative-oblique case dynamic confined to the weak singulars. Historically, the Proto-Germanic weak nouns were characterized by a nasal suffix applied as a case marker. These were mostly absorbed by their preceding vowels by the time Old Norse developed, with the main exceptions being those suffixes in the weak feminine and neuter declensions' genitive plurals. As a result, weak nouns are referred to as the \"n stems\", a consonant stem class.\n\nThe plural inflection of the weak masculine declension is that same as the strong masculine \"a\" declension. The weak declension contains the endings -ingi and -yrki/-virki, as well as some weak versions of strong masculine nouns, names, and endings.\n\nThe weak feminines with the \"-a\" ending vary greatly in the genitive plural, but most fall into a few groups: Nouns with \"-na\" as ending; nouns with no genitive plural; nouns that form the genitive plural by attaching the definite article's genitive plural to the nominative singular; nouns whose genitive singular is used collectively.\n\nAs the nominative of neuter words is also the accusative, and as weak nouns have the same dative and genitive as accusative in the singulars, all of the singular forms are the same for the weak neuters. One subset of the neuter declension contains 6 nouns for parts of the body. Another contains words for objects, forming no genitive plural.\n\nThe Indeclinable Feminines are an additional class of weak noun which originally had a word stem with the ending -in of which in Old Norse only the -i remains. They are conceptual in meaning, and because of this have no plurals and do not differentiate case. The word \"lygi\" \"lie\" however has a plural. They may, in charts, be included with the feminines in -a, in which case said chart becomes:\n\nPronouns and adjectives are generally separate in declension. However, in semantic and syntactic usage, the boundary is less clear-cut. Adjectives may be used as in English, to modify a noun (e.g., \"gótt vatn\", good water), or may stand alone as a de facto pronoun (e.g., \"gótt\", a good thing). The only difference in their declensions is the masculine accusative singular ending, which is \"-n\" in pronouns and \"-an\" in adjectives. Genitive and dative plurals are indistinct in gender for all pronominal and adjectival declensions. The nominative and accusative neuter singular ends in \"-t\" when the word's root vowel is short, and \"-tt\" when long.\n\nThe interrogatives include \"hvat\" \"what\", \"hví\" \"why\", and \"hvess\" \"what sort\", derived from \"þat\", \"hvar\" \"where\" and \"hveim\" \"whom\", derived from \"þar\", \"hvárt\" \"which of two, each,\" and hvęrt, \"whether, which of many.\"\n\nThere are two relative particles, \"er\" or \"es\" and \"sem\", which can also be used as relative pronouns or adverbs. Both are completely indeclinable. The former carries the relative (non-interrogative) senses of the words \"which, who, when, where,\" and \"that\". The latter corresponds to \"as, as if, alike, same as,\" or \"about the same time as\", and may take on any function of \"er\" as well.\n\nSome pronouns, such as hvárr, hvęrt, nekkvęrt, and sá, have adjectival function. This usage generally requires a different translation than their pronominal one.\n\n\"Þat\"'s singulars follow the pronominal declension irregularly, and with different lemmata for each gender. Its plurals follow the declension of the cardinal numbers irregularly, and are especially similar to \"tvau\"'s forms. Variants of \"hánum\" include \"honum\" and \"hǫnum\".\n\nFor the 1st and 2nd person, actions with one's self as an object simply use \"mik, þik,\" etc. For the 3rd person, a separate reflexive pronoun is used, which follows the declension of the 1st and 2nd personal pronouns' singulars.\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"Tvau\" \"two\" or \"bœði\" \"both\" may be used as substitute for a true 3rd personal dual.\n\nThe possessive pronouns are derived from the genitives of the personal pronouns. They are mitt, þitt, sitt, okkart, ykkart, várt, and yðart. The \"í\" of those derived from the singulars is shortened before \"nn\" or \"tt\".\n\nThe comparative and superlative forms are formed by inserting \"-r-\" and \"-st-\" or \"-ar-\" and \"-ast-\" between the uninflected form of the adjective and a strong or weak ending. In the strong adjectives, the definite and superlative are strong when indefinite, weak when definite. The comparatives are weak when both definite and indefinite, and are declined like the active participle. Some strong adjectives i-umlaut their root vowel in their comparatives and superlatives, so that \"stórt hús\" (a large house) becomes \"stœrst\" (a house most large). The past participles of weak verbs decline as strong adjectives.\n\nAs the definite article, \"hit\" appears before a definite adjective and suffixed to a noun. Double definiteness occurs when \"hit/hinn/hin\" or the other definite article, \"þat/sá/sú\", is used before a definite noun or adjective, e.g. \"sá konungrinn,\" \"inn hvíti.\" This type of construction persists to some extent in all modern North Germanic languages, though not generally in Icelandic.\n\nThe \"hit\" originally appeared always as a separate word, \"hit/hinn/hin\", \"it/inn/in\", or \"et/enn/en\", placed before or after a noun or adjective, with the /h/ elided due to the word appearing unstressed in most or all positions. In the late 14th century (particularly in Old Norwegian), an indeclinable form was popular, \"inu\" or \"hinu\", but at no other time.\n\nA related word, \"hitt\", should not be confused with \"hit\", as they are distinct in meaning and stress, and in that the \"h\" can never be dropped from \"hitt\".\n\n\"Jarpt\" demonstrates the general case for declension. \"Gótt\" displays dental assimilation, while \"nekkvęrt\" demonstrates pronominal declension. The comparative and superlative follow the weak declension.\n\nThe singulars of the weak adjectival declension are modelled after those of the weak noun declensions (-an- and -on-stems), and likewise have a nominative-oblique case dynamic.\n\nThe active participle and comparative only have a weak declension and are in masculine and neuter modelled after the weak nouns with roots in -an-stems, but in feminine and plural modelled after the weak nouns with roots in -in-stems. The comparative form as in Latin, other Germanic languages etc. is also corresponding to the agent noun-ending, which in Old Norse has a weak declension with roots in -an-stem inflection as well.\n\nThe plurals are not distinguished in gender, nor in case except the dative.\n\nThe indeclinable adjectives end in -i, -a or -s. They are not comparable. They originated either from regular weak adjectives, with the different endings marking gender; or adjectives with a noun ending in genitive plural or singular, as they originally were nouns.\n\nEitt (one) follows the pronominal declension, and hundrað is a strong neuter noun.\n\n\"Tvau, bæði, þrjú,\" and \"fjǫgur\" have only plural, and their declension is given below. The background of the inflection \"tveimr\" and \"þrimr\" in the dative case as seen below is the Proto-Germanic noun and adjective dative and instrumental plural ending \"-maz\" and \"-miz\". Those endings are still used in contemporary Icelandic today. All other cardinal numbers are indeclinable.\n\nThe distributives and multiplicatives are all strong adjectives. The ordinals are weak, except for \"annat\" \"the second\", which is strong and \"fyrst\" \"the first\", which can be both.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46608035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46608035", "title": "Ossetian Wikipedia", "text": "Ossetian Wikipedia\n\nThe Ossetian Wikipedia () is the Ossetian-language edition of the free online encyclopedia Wikipedia. It was created on 28 February 2005. With approximately articles, it is currently the -largest Wikipedia as measured by the number of articles. Since its creation, the Ossetian Wikipedia has been called \"what is perhaps the only website written entirely in Ossetian.\"\n\nOn 3 March 2010, the Ossetian Wikipedia made headlines in local newspapers for reaching a double milestone. The edition was 5 years old and had just passed the 5000 articles threshold.\n\n"}
{"id": "22337927", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22337927", "title": "Posse mit Gesang", "text": "Posse mit Gesang\n\nPosse mit Gesang (\"farce with singing\", plural: Possen) is a form of popular German-language music drama, that developed in the late 18th and early 19th centuries. Early examples are sometimes called 'Possenspil' or 'Possenspiel'. It is also sometimes referred to simply as 'Posse' (farce).\n\nAssociated with Vienna, and also Berlin and Hamburg, the Posse mit Gesang was similar to the Singspiel, but generally had more action and less music than the more operatic form. Viennese examples included Ferdinand Raimund's \"Der Alpenkönig und der Menschenfeind\" of 1828 and many of the works of Johann Nestroy. Composers who contributed music for Posse included Wenzel Müller, Conradin Kreutzer, and Philip Jakob Riotte. \n\nSome 20th-century examples of posse written by Walter Kollo were \"Filmzauber\" (1912) and \"Wie einst im Mai\" (1913). \n\nMore specialized examples of the genre were 'Lokalposse' (daily life themes), 'Zauberposse' (magic), 'Charakterposse' (personalities), 'Situationsposse' (situations), and 'Parodierende Posse' (parodies).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46837051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46837051", "title": "Racti Art Production &amp; Distribution", "text": "Racti Art Production &amp; Distribution\n\nRacti Art Production & Distribution () is a Lebanese dubbing and translation company, it's dubbing and translating films and TV series.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2905913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2905913", "title": "Robert Maximilian de Gaynesford", "text": "Robert Maximilian de Gaynesford\n\nMaximilian de Gaynesford (born 1968) is an English philosopher and the author of \"The Rift in the Lute: Attuning Poetry and Philosophy\" (Oxford, 2017). He was educated at Ampleforth College and Balliol College, Oxford (1986–9; First in Modern History), after which he spent several years studying Theology, before turning to Philosophy in 1993. Before receiving his doctorate, he was elected Fellow and Tutor in Philosophy at Lincoln College, Oxford (1997). He was subsequently Humboldt Research Fellow at the Freie Universität Berlin (2003) and a tenured professor at The College of William and Mary in Virginia (2002–2006) before becoming Professor of Philosophy (2008) and Head of Department (2016) at the University of Reading. He is the author of over forty articles and four books: \"The Rift in the Lute: Attuning Poetry and Philosophy\" (Oxford, 2017), \"I: The Meaning of the First Person Term\" (Oxford, 2006), \"Hilary Putnam\" (Routledge, 2006), and \"John McDowell\" (Polity, 2004). In 2011, he edited a collection of articles on the Philosophy of Action, \"Agents And Their Actions\" (Blackwell), which includes recent work by John McDowell and Joseph Raz. He often gives papers on attuning poetry and philosophy for general audiences, as here . He spoke at the Harvard Conference in celebration of Hilary Putnam, here . He has a daughter, Elisabeth (born 2009).\n\nMost of his papers can be found here \n\n\nWhat is it for poetry to be serious and to be taken seriously? What is it to be open to poetry, exposed to its force, attuned to what it says and alive to what it does? These are important questions that call equally on poetry and philosophy. But poetry and philosophy, notoriously, have an ancient quarrel. Maximilian de Gaynesford sets out to understand and convert their mutual antipathy into something mutually enhancing, so that we can begin to answer these and\nother questions. The key to attuning poetry and philosophy lies in the fact that poetic utterances are best appreciated as doing things. For it is as doing things that the speech act approach in analytic philosophy of language tries to understand all utterances. Taking such an approach, this book offers\nways to enhance our appreciation of poetry and to develop our understanding of philosophy. It explores work by a range of poets from Chaucer to Geoffrey Hill and J. H. Prynne, and culminates in an extended study of Shakespeare's Sonnets. What work does poetry set itself, and how does this determine the way it is to be judged? What do poets commit themselves to, and what they may be held responsible for? What role does a poet have, or their audience, or their context, in determining the meaning\nof a poem, what work it is able to achieve? These are the questions that an attuned approach is able to ask and answer.\n\nThe book \"I: The Meaning of the First Person Term\" (Oxford: Clarendon Press, 2006) rejects the established view that \"I\" is a so-called \"Pure Indexical\", arguing that it is a deictic term, and hence like the other singular personal pronouns (\"You\"; \"He / She\").\n\nThe established view, so the book argues, depends on three mutually supportive doctrines which turn out to be myths:\n\nThe radically new account of \"I\" (as a deictic term) depends on various kinds of evidence:\n\nThis account has a major bearing on other areas of research: the meaning of \"I\" is used to elucidate the thoughts expressed by the term, and so helps account for difficult and controversial features of self-knowledge, practical reasoning, belief-acquisition, and belief-ascription.\n\nA critical evaluation which reveals a basic unity in Putnam’s work (\"Hilary Putnam\", McGill-Queens University Press / Acumen, 2006), achieved through repeated engagements with a small set of hard problems, all of which stem from the need to account for the intentionality of thought and language.\n\nA study (\"John McDowell\", Blackwell / Polity Press, 2004) of McDowell's view that treating our fundamental relations with the world as problematic is a deep mistake, attributable to false views about nature, and that we should give proper weight to a natural fact about the world: that human beings are of a kind that is naturally placed within the natural order.\n\n"}
{"id": "16502216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16502216", "title": "Shripad Mahadev Mate", "text": "Shripad Mahadev Mate\n\nShripad Mahadev Mate (2 September 1886–25 December 1957) was a Marathi writer and a social reformer from Maharashtra, India.\n\nMate was a teacher of English and Marathi literature by profession. Although he took up writing at the relatively late age of forty-four, during the remainder of his life he wrote eclectically and copiously on a variety of social, scientific, biographical and historical subjects. He was deeply troubled by the social scourge of untouchability in contemporary India, and wrote several short stories as well as essays arguing for the abolition of this practice. Although he was a Brahmin by birth and retained a spiritual affinity for the cultural and religious tenets of Hinduism, his writings show his sustained scepticism towards many of its dogmas.\n\nMate was born in the town of Shirpur in Vidarbha. He went to New English School, Satara and acquired his university education (up to an M.A.) in Pune. For a few years, he served as a teacher at the Nutan Marathi Vidyalaya, Pune and later as a professor at Sir Parshurambhau College. His son Madhukar Mate (born 1930) was an eminent archaeologist with expertise in medieval India. \nMate presided over the Marathi Sahitya Sammelan at Sangli in 1943.\n"}
{"id": "32621099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32621099", "title": "Siwai language", "text": "Siwai language\n\nMotuna or Siwai, also known as \"Telei, Rugara\", is a Papuan language of Bougainville Province, Papua New Guinea. The current number of speakers is difficult to estimate since the latest figure (6,000 + 600) is from the 1970 census.\n\nThe structure of the language is CV(C), with the coda being an archiphoneme realized as a glottal stop, glottal fricative, or a nasal (homorganic to the next consonant or velar if word-final).\n\nSiwai is an agglutinating language that undergoes a substantial amount of morphophonological fusion. Heads and dependents are both marked. It shows case on NPs. It is ergative/absolutive. It shows extremely complex prefixation and suffixation in verbs, kinship terms, classifiers, and numerals. It tends to be verb-final, with A and O in either order. NPs can be omitted when understood from context.\n\nSiwai exhibits five genders: masculine, feminine, diminutive, local, and manner. These are marked in the singular forms only since dual and paucal forms are all marked like diminutive and plurals are marked like masculine. These genders coexist with fifty-one semantic types, marked by classifiers. These in turn are combined with numerals, demonstratives, and possessive pronouns.\n\nThe language has four numbers: singular, dual, paucal, and plural. Nouns show all four while pronouns are either singular and non-singular. First-person non-singular shows a distinction in inclusive and exclusive.\n\nVerbs mark person and number of core arguments. It has split S morphology and active/middle voice distinction. Verbs also mark one of fourteen TAM categories.\n\nThe verb structure consists primarily of suffixes: \n\nThere are some verbs that are exceptions to this structure, such as the Definite Future suffix which requires no gender marking, and some TAM morphemes in medial verbs.\n\nSiwai has four types of valency structure:\nSome verbs are ambitransitive and take either active or middle voice. The voice system of the language is thus a \"verbal diathesis\" where the configuration of core arguments determine the active or middle voice.\n\nThere are five main verb classes, which are determined by which cross-referencing morphemes they take:\n\nSimilar to many other Papuan languages, Siwai has medial verbs which are in the middle of a sentence and indicate TAM and switch-reference.\n\n"}
{"id": "38358747", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38358747", "title": "Socotra Swahili language", "text": "Socotra Swahili language\n\nSocotra Swahili is an extinct variety of Swahili spoken on Socotra Island in Yemen. It was reported to be spoken by a fifth of the island (c. 2,000 people) in 1962.\n"}
{"id": "45587278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45587278", "title": "Sonia Edwards", "text": "Sonia Edwards\n\nSonia Edwards is a British poet and writer who writes primarily in Welsh.\n\nEdwards was born in Cemaes on the island of Anglesey. She is known as a writer of books in Welsh although she also translates her own books into English. She won the Arts Council Book of the Year Award in 1996. In 1999 she won the Prose Medal at the National Eisteddfod on Anglesey. In 2017 she won it again at the Anglesey Eisteddfod. \n\nShe taught Welsh at Ysgol Gyfun Llangefni, a school in Llangefni on the same island where she was born. She retired from teaching to pursue a career in writing.\n\n"}
{"id": "16017237", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16017237", "title": "Style guide", "text": "Style guide\n\nA style guide (or manual of style) is a set of standards for the writing and design of documents, either for general use or for a specific publication, organization, or field. (It is often called a style sheet, though that term has other meanings.)\n\nA style guide establishes and enforces style to improve communication. To do that, it ensures consistency within a document and across multiple documents and enforces best practice in usage and in language composition, visual composition, orthography and typography. For academic and technical documents, a guide may also enforce the best practice in ethics (such as authorship, research ethics, and disclosure), pedagogy (such as exposition and clarity), and compliance (technical and regulatory).\n\nStyle guides are common for general and specialized use, for the general reading and writing audience, and for students and scholars of various academic disciplines, medicine, journalism, the law, government, business, and specific industries. House style refers to the internal style manual of a particular publisher or organization.\n\nStyle guides vary widely in scope and size.\n\nThis variety in scope and length is enabled by the cascading of one style over another, in a way analogous to how styles cascade in web development and in desktop publishing (e.g., how inline styles in HTML cascade over CSS styles).\n\nA short style guide is often called a \"style sheet\". A comprehensive guide tends to be long and is often called a \"style manual\" or \"manual of style\" (\"MOS\" or \"MoS\"). In many cases, a project such as one book, journal, or monograph series typically has a short style sheet that cascades over the somewhat larger style guide of an organization such as a publishing company, whose content is usually called \"house style\". Most house styles, in turn, cascade over an \"industry-wide or profession-wide style manual\" that is even more comprehensive. Some examples of these industry style guides include the following: \n\nFinally, these reference works cascade over the orthographic norms of the language in use (for example, English orthography for English-language publications). This, of course, may be subject to national variety such as the different varieties of American English and British English.\n\nSome style guides focus on specific topic areas such as graphic design, including typography. Website style guides cover a publication's visual and technical aspects along with text.\n\nStyle guides that cover usage may suggest ways of describing people that avoid racism, sexism, and homophobia. Guides in specific scientific and technical fields cover nomenclature, which specifies names or classifying labels that are preferred because they are clear, standardized, and ontologically sound (e.g., taxonomy, chemical nomenclature, and gene nomenclature).\n\nMost style guides are revised periodically to accommodate changes in conventions and usage. The frequency of updating and the revision control are determined by the subject matter. For style manuals in reference work format, new editions typically appear every 1 to 20 years. For example, the AP Stylebook is revised annually, and the Chicago, APA, and ASA manuals are in their 17th, 6th, and 4th editions, respectively. Many house styles and individual project styles change more frequently, especially for new projects.\n\nSeveral basic style guides for technical and scientific communication have been defined by international standards organizations. One example is ISO 215 \"Documentation — Presentation of contributions to periodicals and other serials\".\n\nThe European Union publishes an \"Interinstitutional style guide\"—encompassing 24 languages across the European Union. This manual is \"obligatory\" for all those employed by the institutions of the EU who are involved in preparing EU documents and works. The Directorate-General for Translation of the European Commission publishes its own \"English Style Guide\", intended primarily for English-language authors and translators, but aiming to serve a wider readership as well.\n\n\nGeneral\n\nJournalism\n\nLaw\n\n\n\nIn the United States, most public-facing corporate communication and journalism writing is written with styles following \"The Associated Press Stylebook\". Book publishers and authors of journals requiring reference sections generally choose the Chicago Manual of Style, while scholarly writing often follows the \"MLA Style Manual and Guide to Scholarly Publishing\". One of the most popular grammar guides used in third-person writing is \"The Elements of Style\". The Associated Press Stylebook is written to be used together with The Elements of Style to provide a very complete grammar and English style reference with no conflicts.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nDespite the near uniform use of the Bluebook, nearly every state has appellate court rules that specify citation methods and writing styles specific to that state - and the Supreme Court of the United States has its own citation method. However, in most cases these are derived from the Bluebook.\n\nThere are also several other citation manuals available to legal writers in wide usage in the United States. Virtually all large law firms maintain their own citation manual and several major publishers of legal texts (West, Lexis-Nexis, Hein, \"et al.\") maintain their own systems.\n\n\n\n\n\nGuidelines for citing web content also appear in comprehensive style guides such as Oxford/Hart, Chicago and MLA.\n\n"}
{"id": "28576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28576", "title": "Sysop", "text": "Sysop\n\nA sysop (; an abbreviation of system operator) is an administrator of a multi-user computer system, such as a bulletin board system (BBS) or an online service virtual community. The phrase may also be used to refer to administrators of other Internet-based network services.\n\nCo-sysops are users who may be granted certain admin privileges on a BBS. Generally, they help validate users and monitor discussion forums. Some co-sysops serve as file clerks, reviewing, describing, and publishing newly uploaded files into appropriate download directories.\n\nHistorically, the term \"system operator\" applied to operators of any computer system, especially a mainframe computer. In general, a sysop is a person who oversees the operation of a server, typically in a large computer system. Usage of the term became popular in the late 1980s and 1990s, originally in reference to BBS operators. A person with equivalent functions on a network host or server is typically called a \"sysadmin\", short for system administrator.\n\nBecause such duties were often shared with that of the sysadmin prior to the advent of the World Wide Web, the term \"sysop\" is often used more generally to refer to an administrator or moderator, such as a forum administrator. Hence, the term \"sysadmin\" is technically used to distinguish the professional position of a network operator.\n\n"}
{"id": "63731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=63731", "title": "Thai alphabet", "text": "Thai alphabet\n\nThe Thai alphabet (; ; ) is the abugida (\"alphasyllabary\") used to write Thai, Southern Thai and many spoken in Thailand. It has 44 consonant symbols (, \"phayanchana\"), 15 vowel symbols (, \"sara\") that combine with 28 vowel symbols and four tone diacritics (, \"wannayuk\" or \"wannayut\") to create characters mostly representing syllables.\n\nAlthough commonly referred to as the \"Thai alphabet\", the script is in fact not a true alphabet but an abugida, a writing system in which each consonant may invoke an inherent vowel sound. In the case of the Thai script this is an implied 'a' or 'o'. Consonants are written horizontally from left to right, with vowels arranged above, below, to the left, or to the right of the corresponding consonant, or in a combination of positions.\n\nThai has its own set of Thai numerals that are based on the Hindu-Arabic numeral system (, \"lek thai\"), but the standard western Hindu-Arabic numerals (, \"lek hindu arabik\") are mainly used except for government documents and the license plates of military vehicles.\n\nThe Thai alphabet is derived from the Old Khmer script (, \"akson khom\"), which is a southern Brahmic style of writing derived from the south Indian Pallava alphabet ().\n\nThai is considered to be the first script in the world which invented tone markers to indicate distinctive tones, which are lacking in the Mon-Khmer (Austroasiatic languages) and Indo-Aryan languages from which its script is derived. Although Chinese and other Sino-Tibetan languages have distinctive tones in their phonological system, no tone marker is found in their orthographies. Thus, tone markers are an innovation in the Thai language that later influenced other related Tai languages and some Tibeto-Burman languages on the Southeast Asian mainland.\n\nIn most Brahmic scripts such as Devanagari, Khmer or Mon script; successive consonants lacking a vowel in between them may physically join together as a \"conjunct\" or ligature. However Thai (and the related Lao script) is unique in how it does not have a system of conjunct letters or subscript consonants.\n\nThai tradition attributes the creation of the script to King Ramkhamhaeng the Great () in 1283, though this has been challenged.\n\nThere is a fairly complex relationship between spelling and sound. There are various issues:\n\nThai letters do not have small and capital forms like the Roman alphabet. Spaces between words are not used, except in certain linguistically motivated cases.\n\nMinor pauses in sentences \"may\" be marked by a comma ( or , \"chunlaphak\" or \"luk nam\"), and major pauses by a period ( or , \"mahap phak\" or \"chut\"), but most often are marked by a blank space (, \"wak\"). A bird's eye ๏ (, \"ta kai\", officially called , \"fong man\") formerly indicated paragraphs, but is now obsolete.\n\nA \"kho mut\" ๛ () can be used to mark the end of a chapter or document.\n\nThai writing also uses quotation marks (, \"anyaprakat\") and parentheses (round brackets) (, \"wong lep\" or , \"nakha likhit\"), but not square brackets or braces.\n\nThere are 44 consonant letters representing 21 distinct consonant sounds. Duplicate consonants either correspond to sounds that existed in Old Thai at the time the alphabet was created but no longer exist (in particular, voiced obstruents such as \"b d g v z\"), or different Sanskrit and Pali consonants pronounced identically in Thai. There are in addition four consonant-vowel combination characters not included in the tally of 44.\n\nConsonants are divided into three classes — in alphabetic order these are middle (, \"klang\"), high (, \"sung\"), and low (, \"tam\") class — as shown in the table below. These class designations reflect phonetic qualities of the sounds to which the letters originally corresponded in Old Thai. In particular, \"middle\" sounds were voiceless unaspirated stops; \"high\" sounds, voiceless aspirated stops or voiceless fricatives; \"low\" sounds, voiced. Subsequent sound changes have obscured the phonetic nature of these classes. Today, the class of a consonant without a tone mark, along with the short or long length of the accompanying vowel, determine the base accent (, \"pheun siang\"). Middle class consonants with a long vowel spell an additional four tones with one of four tone marks over the controlling consonant: \"mai ek, mai tho, mai tri\", and \"mai chattawa\". High and low class consonants are limited to \"mai ek\" and \"mai tho\", as shown in the . Differing interpretations of the two marks or their absence allow low class consonants to spell tones not allowed for the corresponding high class consonant. In the case of digraphs where a low class follows a higher class consonant, the higher class rules apply, but the marker, if used, goes over the low class one; accordingly, \"ho nam\" and \"o nam\" may be considered to be digraphs as such, as explained below the Tone table. \nTo aid learning, each consonant is traditionally associated with an acrophonic Thai word that either starts with the same sound, or features it prominently. For example, the name of the letter ข is \"kho khai\" (ข ไข่), in which \"kho\" is the sound it represents, and \"khai\" (ไข่) is a word which starts with the same sound and means \"egg\".\n\nTwo of the consonants, ฃ (\"kho khuat\") and ฅ (\"kho khon\"), are no longer used in written Thai, but still appear on many keyboards and in character sets. When the first Thai typewriter was developed by Edwin Hunter McFarland in 1892, there was simply no space for all characters, thus two had to be left out. Also, neither of these two letters correspond to a Sanskrit or Pali letter, and each of them, being a modified form of the letter that precedes it (compare ข and ค), has the same pronunciation and the same consonant class as the preceding letter (somewhat like the European long s). This makes them redundant. Set in 1890s Siam, a 2006 film titled in Thai: ฅนไฟบิน \"Flying Fire Person\" (in English: Dynamite Warrior), uses ฅ \"kho khon\" to spell ฅน \"Person\". Compare entry for ฅ in table below, where \"person\" is spelled คน.\n\nEquivalents for romanisation are shown in the table below. Many consonants are pronounced differently at the beginning and at the end of a syllable. The entries in columns \"initial\" and \"final\" indicate the pronunciation for that consonant in the corresponding positions in a syllable. Where the entry is '-', the consonant may not be used to close a syllable. Where a combination of consonants ends a written syllable, only the first is pronounced; possible closing consonant sounds are limited to 'k', 'm', 'n', 'ng', 'p' and 't'.\n\nAlthough official standards for romanisation are the Royal Thai General System of Transcription (RTGS) defined by the Royal Thai Institute, and the almost identical defined by the International Organization for Standardization, many publications use different romanisation systems. In daily practice, a bewildering variety of romanisations are used, making it difficult to know how to pronounce a word, or to judge if two words (e.g. on a map and a street sign) are actually the same. For more precise information, an equivalent from the International Phonetic Alphabet (IPA) is given as well.\n\nThe consonants can be organised by place and manner of articulation according to principles of the International Phonetic Association.\nThai distinguishes among three voice/aspiration patterns for plosive consonants:\n\nWhere English has only a distinction between the voiced, unaspirated and the unvoiced, aspirated , Thai distinguishes a third sound which is neither voiced nor aspirated, which occurs in English only as an allophone of , approximately the sound of the \"p\" in \"spin\". There is similarly an alveolar , , triplet. In the velar series there is a , pair and in the postalveolar series the , pair.\n\nIn each cell below, the first line indicates (IPA), the second indicates the Thai characters in initial position (several letters appearing in the same box have identical pronunciation). Note how the conventional alphabetic order shown in the table above follows roughly the table below, reading the coloured blocks from right to left and top to bottom.\n\nPronunciation of Thai characters in initial position\nAlthough the overall 44 Thai consonants provide 21 sounds in case of initials, the case for finals is different. Note how the consonant sounds in the table for initials collapse in the table for final sounds. At the end of a syllable, all plosives are unvoiced, unaspirated, and have no audible release. Initial affricates and fricatives become final plosives. The initial trill (ร), approximant (ญ), and lateral approximants (ล,ฬ) are realized as a final nasal .\n\nOnly 8 ending sounds, as well as no ending sound, are available in Thai pronunciation. Among these consonants, excluding the disused ฃ and ฅ, six (ฉ ผ ฝ ห อ ฮ) cannot be used as a final. The remaining 36 are grouped as following.\n\nPronunciation of Thai characters in final position\nThai vowel sounds and diphthongs are written using a mixture of vowel symbols on a consonant base. Each vowel is shown in its correct position relative to a base consonant and sometimes a final consonant as well. Note that vowels can go above, below, left of or right of the consonant, or combinations of these places. If a vowel has parts before and after the initial consonant, and the syllable starts with a consonant cluster, the split will go around the whole cluster.\n\nTwenty-one vowel symbol elements are traditionally named, which may appear alone or in combination to form compound symbols.\n\nThe inherent vowels are in open syllables (CV) and in closed syllables (CVC). For example, transcribes \"road\". There are a few exceptions in Pali loanwords, where the inherent vowel of an open syllable is . The circumfix vowels, such as , encompass a preceding consonant with an inherent vowel. For example, is written , and \"only\" is written .\n\nThe characters ฤ ฤๅ (plus ฦ ฦๅ, which are obsolete) are usually considered as vowels, the first being a short vowel sound, and the latter, long. As alphabetical entries, ฤ ฤๅ follow ร, and themselves can be read as a combination of consonant and vowel, equivalent to รึ (short), and รือ (long) (and the obsolete pair as ลึ, ลือ), respectively. Moreover, ฤ can act as ริ as an integral part in many words mostly borrowed from Sanskrit such as กฤษณะ (\"kritsana\", not \"kruetsana\"), ฤทธิ์ (\"rit\", not \"ruet\"), and กฤษดา (\"kritsada\", not \"kruetsada\"), for example. It is also used to spell อังกฤษ \"angkrit\" England/English.\n\nThe pronunciation below is indicated by the International Phonetic Alphabet and the Romanisation according to the Royal Thai Institute as well as several variant Romanisations often encountered. A very approximate equivalent is given for various regions of English speakers and surrounding areas. Dotted circles represent the positions of consonants or consonant clusters. The first one represents the initial consonant and the latter (if it exists) represents the final.\n\n\"Ro han\" (ร หัน) is not usually considered a vowel and is not included in the following table. It represents the \"sara a\" vowel in certain Sanskrit loanwords and appears as ◌รร◌. When used without a final consonant (◌รร), is implied as the final consonant, giving .\n\nThai is a tonal language, and the script gives full information on the tones. Tones are realised in the vowels, but indicated in the script by a combination of the class of the initial consonant (high, mid or low), vowel length (long or short), closing consonant (plosive or sonorant, i.e., \"dead\" or \"live\") and, if present, one of four tone marks, whose name derive from the name of the digits 1–4 borrowed from Pali or Sanskrit. The rules for denoting tones are shown in the following chart:\n\n\"None\", that is, no tone marker, is used with the base accent (พื้นเสียง, \"pheun siang\"). \"Mai tri\" and \"mai chattawa\" are only used with mid-class consonants.\n\nTwo consonant characters (not diacritics) are used to modify the tone:\n\nExceptions where words are spelled with one tone but pronounced with another often occur in informal conversation (notably the pronouns ฉัน \"chan\" and เขา \"khao\", which are both pronounced with a high tone rather than the rising tone indicated by the script). Generally, when such words are recited or read in public, they are pronounced as spelled.\n\nOther diacritics are used to indicate short vowels and silent letters:\n\n\"Fan nu\" means \"rat teeth\" and is thought as being placed in combination with short \"sara i\" and \"fong man\" to form other characters.\n\nThe Thai script contains decimal numerical digits.\n\n\"Pai-yan noi\" and \"angkhan diao\" share the same character. \"Sara a\" (–ะ) used in combination with other characters is called \"wisanchani\".\n\nSome of the characters can mark the beginning or end of a sentence, chapter, or episode of a story or of a stanza in a poem. These have changed use over time and are becoming uncommon.\n\nThe Thai script (like all Indic scripts) uses a number of modifications to write Sanskrit and related languages (in particular, Pali). Pali is very closely related to Sanskrit and is the liturgical language of Thai Buddhism. In Thailand, Pali is written and studied using a slightly modified Thai script. The main difference is that each consonant is followed by an implied short a (อะ), not the 'o', or 'ə' of Thai: this short a is never omitted in pronunciation, and if the vowel is not to be pronounced, then a specific symbol must be used, the \"pinthu\" อฺ (a solid dot under the consonant). This means that \"sara a\" (อะ) is never used when writing Pali, because it is always implied. For example, \"namo\" is written นะโม in Thai, but in Pali it is written as นโม, because the อะ is redundant. The Sanskrit word 'mantra' is written มนตร์ in Thai (and therefore pronounced \"mon\"), but is written มนฺตฺร in Sanskrit (and therefore pronounced \"mantra\"). When writing Pali, only 33 consonants and 12 vowels are used.\n\nThis is an example of a Pali text written using the Thai Sanskrit orthography: อรหํ สมฺมาสมฺพุทฺโธ ภควา . Written in modern Thai orthography, this becomes อะระหัง สัมมาสัมพุทโธ ภะคะวา \"arahang sammasamphuttho phakhawa\".\n\nIn Thailand, Sanskrit is read out using the Thai values for all the consonants (so ค is read as \"kha\" and not [ga]), which makes Thai spoken Sanskrit incomprehensible to sanskritists not trained in Thailand. The Sanskrit values are used in transliteration (without the diacritics), but these values are never actually used when Sanskrit is read out loud in Thailand. The vowels used in Thai are identical to Sanskrit, with the exception of ฤ, ฤๅ, ฦ, and ฦๅ, which are read using their Thai values, not their Sanskrit values. Sanskrit and Pali are not tonal languages, but in Thailand, the Thai tones are used when reading these languages out loud.\n\nIn the tables in this section, the Thai value (transliterated according to the Royal Thai system) of each letter is listed first, followed by the IAST value of each letter in square brackets. Remember that in Thailand, the IAST values are never used in pronunciation, but only sometimes in transcriptions (with the diacritics omitted). This disjoint between transcription and spoken value explains the romanisation for Sanskrit names in Thailand that many foreigners find confusing. For example, สุวรรณภูมิ is romanised as Suvarnabhumi, but pronounced \"su-wan-na-phum\". ศรีนครินทร์ is romanised as Srinagarindra but pronounced \"si-nakha-rin\".\n\nPlosives (also called stops) are listed in their traditional Sanskrit order, which corresponds to Thai alphabetical order from ก to ม with three exceptions: in Thai, high-class ข is followed by two obsolete characters with no Sanskrit equivalent, high-class ฃ and low-class ฅ; low-class ช is followed by sibilant ซ (low-class equivalent of high-class sibilant ส that follows ศ and ษ.) The table gives the Thai value first, and then the IAST value in square brackets.\nNone of the Sanskrit plosives are pronounced as the Thai voiced plosives, so these are not represented in the table. While letters are listed here according to their class in Sanskrit, Thai has lost the distinction between many of the consonants. So, while there is a clear distinction between ช and ฌ in Sanskrit, in Thai these two consonants are pronounced identically (including tone). Likewise, the Thai phonemes do not differentiate between the retroflex and dental classes, because Thai has no retroflex consonants. The equivalents of all the retroflex consonants are pronounced identically to their dental counterparts: thus ฏ is pronounced like ต, and ฐ is pronounced like ถ, and so forth.\n\nThe Sanskrit unaspirated unvoiced plosives are pronounced as unaspirated unvoiced, whereas Sanskrit aspirated voiced plosives are pronounced as aspirated unvoiced.\n\n\"Semivowels and liquids\" (กิ่งสระ \"pha king sara\" branch vowels\") come in Thai alphabetical order after ม, the last of the plosives. The term อวรรค \"awak\" means \"without a break\"; that is, without a plosive.\nเสียดแทรก, pronounced \"เสียดแซก\" (siat saek), meaning \"inserted sound(s)\", follow the semi-vowel ว in alphabetical order.\nLike Sanskrit, Thai has no voiced sibilant (so no 'z' or 'zh'). In modern Thai, the distinction between the three high-class consonants has been lost and all three are pronounced 'sà'; however, foreign words with an sh-sound may still be transcribed as if the Sanskrit values still hold (e.g., \"ang-grit\" อังกฤษ for \"English\" instead of อังกฤส).\n\nห, a high-class consonant, comes next in alphabetical order, but its low-class equivalent, ฮ, follows similar-appearing อ as the last letter of the Thai alphabet. Like modern Hindi, the voicing has disappeared, and the letter is now pronounced like English 'h'. Like Sanskrit, this letter may only be used to start a syllable, but may not end it. (A popular beer is romanized as Singha, but in Thai is สิงห์, with a \"karan\" on the ห; correct pronunciation is \"sing\", but foreigners to Thailand typically say \"sing-ha\".)\n\nAll consonants have an inherent 'a' sound, and therefore there is no need to use the ะ symbol when writing Sanskrit. The Thai vowels อื, ไอ, ใอ, and so forth, are not used in Sanskrit. The zero consonant, อ, is unique to the Indic alphabets descended from Khmer. When it occurs in Sanskrit, it is always the zero consonant and never the vowel \"o\" . Its use in Sanskrit is therefore to write vowels that cannot be otherwise written alone: e.g., อา or อี. When อ is written on its own, then it is a carrier for the implied vowel, \"a\" (equivalent to อะ in Thai).\n\nThe vowels อำ and อึ occur in Sanskrit, but only as the combination of the pure vowels \"sara a\" อา or \"sara i\" อิ with \"nikkhahit\" อํ.\n\nThere are a number of additional symbols only used to write Sanskrit or Pali, and not used in writing Thai.\n\nIn Sanskrit, the anusvāra indicates a certain kind of nasal sound. In Thai this is written as an open circle above the consonant. Nasalisation does not occur in Thai, therefore, a nasal stop is always substituted: e.g. ตํ , is pronounced as ตัง \"tang\" by Thai sanskritists. If nikkhahit occurs before a consonant, then Thai uses a nasal stop of the same class: e.g. สํสฺกฺฤตา is read as สันสกฤตา \"san-sa-krit-ta\" (The ส following the nikkhahit is a dental-class consonant, therefore the dental-class nasal stop น is used). For this reason, it has been suggested that in Thai, nikkhahit should be listed as a consonant. \"Nikkhahit\" นิคหิต occurs as part of the Thai vowels \"sara am\" อำ and \"sara ue\" อึ.\n\nอฺ\n\nBecause the Thai script is an abugida, a symbol (equivalent to virāma in devanagari) needs to be added to indicate that the implied vowel is not to be pronounced. This is the pinthu, which is a solid dot (also called 'Bindu' in Sanskrit) below the consonant.\n\nอ๎\n\nYamakkan is an obsolete symbol used to mark the beginning of consonant clusters: e.g. พ๎ราห๎มณ \"phramana\" . Without the yamakkan, this word would be pronounced \"pharahamana\" instead. This is a feature unique to the Thai script (other Indic scripts use a combination of ligatures, conjuncts or virāma to convey the same information). The symbol is obsolete because \"pinthu\" may be used to achieve the same effect: พฺราหฺมณ.\n\nThe means of recording visarga (final voiceless 'h') in Thai has been lost, although the character ◌ะ which is used to transcribe a short /a/ or to add a glottal stop after a vowel is the closest equivalent.\n\nThai script was added to the Unicode Standard in October, 1991 with the release of version 1.0.\n\nThe Unicode block for Thai is U+0E00–U+0E7F. \nIt is a verbatim copy of the older TIS-620 character set which encodes the vowels เ, แ, โ, ใ and ไ before the consonants they follow, and thus Thai, Lao, and Tai Viet are the only Brahmic scripts in Unicode that use visual order instead of logical order.\n\nThai characters can be typed using the Kedmanee layout and the Pattachote layout.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "923015", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=923015", "title": "Theory of descriptions", "text": "Theory of descriptions\n\nThe theory of descriptions is the philosopher Bertrand Russell's most significant contribution to the philosophy of language. It is also known as Russell's theory of descriptions (commonly abbreviated as RTD). In short, Russell argued that the syntactic form of descriptions (phrases that took the form of \"The aardvark\" and \"An aardvark\") is misleading, as it does not correlate their logical and/or semantic architecture. While descriptions may seem fairly uncontroversial phrases, Russell argued that providing a satisfactory analysis of the linguistic and logical properties of a description is vital to clarity in important philosophical debates, particularly in semantic arguments, epistemology and metaphysics.\n\nSince the first development of the theory in Russell's 1905 paper \"On Denoting\", RTD has been hugely influential and well-received within the philosophy of language. However, it has not been without its critics. In particular, the philosophers P. F. Strawson and Keith Donnellan have given notable, well known criticisms of the theory. Most recently, RTD has been defended by various philosophers and even developed in promising ways to bring it into harmony with generative grammar in Noam Chomsky's sense, particularly by Stephen Neale. Such developments have themselves been criticised, and debate continues.\n\nRussell viewed his theory of descriptions as a kind of analysis that is now called logical analysis or propositional analysis (not to be confused with propositional calculus).\n\nBertrand Russell's theory of descriptions was initially put forth in his 1905 essay \"On Denoting\", published in the journal of philosophy \"Mind\". Russell's theory is focused on the logical form of expressions involving denoting phrases, which he divides into three groups:\n\n\n\"Indefinite descriptions\" constitute Russell's third group. Descriptions most frequently appear in the standard subject–predicate form. \n\nRussell put forward his theory of descriptions to solve a number of problems in the philosophy of language. The two major problems are (1) co-referring expressions and (2) non-referring expressions.\n\nThe problem of co-referring expressions originated primarily with Gottlob Frege as the problem of informative identities. For example, if the morning star and the evening star are the same planet in the sky seen at different times of day (indeed, they are both the planet Venus: the morning star is the planet Venus seen in the morning sky and the evening star is the planet Venus seen in the evening sky), how is it that someone can think that the morning star rises in the morning but the evening star does not? This is apparently problematic because although the two expressions seem to denote the same thing, one cannot substitute one for the other, which one ought to be able to do with identical or synonymous expressions.\n\nThe problem of non-referring expressions is that certain expressions that are meaningful do not truly refer to anything. For example, by \"any dog is annoying\" it is not meant that there is a particular individual dog, namely \"any dog\", that has the property of being annoying (similar considerations go for \"some dog\", \"every dog\", \"a dog\", and so on). Likewise, by \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray\" it is not meant that there is some individual, namely \"the current Emperor of Kentucky \", who has the property of being gray; Kentucky was never a monarchy, so there is currently no Emperor. Thus, what Russell wants to avoid is admitting mysterious non-existent entities into his ontology. Furthermore, the law of the excluded middle requires that one of the following propositions, for example, must be true: either \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray\" or \"it is not the case that the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray\". Normally, propositions of the subject-predicate form are said to be true if and only if the subject is in the extension of the predicate. But, there is currently no Emperor of Kentucky. So, since the subject does not exist, it is not in the extension of either predicate (it is not on the list of gray people or non-gray people). Thus, it appears that this is a case in which the law of excluded middle is violated, which is also an indication that something has gone wrong.\n\nRussell analyses definite descriptions similarly to indefinite descriptions, except that the individual is now uniquely specified. Take as an example of a definite description the sentence \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray\". Russell analyses this phrase into the following component parts (with 'x' and 'y' representing variables):\n\n\nThus, a definite description (of the general form 'the F is G') becomes the following existentially quantified phrase in classic symbolic logic (where 'x' and 'y' are variables and 'F' and 'G' are predicates – in the example above, F would be \"is an emperor of Kentucky\", and G would be \"is gray\"):\n\nInformally, this reads as follows: something exists with the property F, there is only one such thing, and this unique thing also has the property G.\n\nThis analysis, according to Russell, solves the two problems noted above as related to definite descriptions:\n\nRussell says that all propositions in which the Emperor of Kentucky has a primary occurrence are false. The denials of such propositions are true, but in these cases the Emperor of Kentucky has a secondary occurrence (the truth value of the proposition is not a function of the truth of the existence of the Emperor of Kentucky).\n\nTake as an example of an indefinite description the sentence \"some dog is annoying\". Russell analyses this phrase into the following component parts (with 'x' and 'y' representing variables):\n\n\nThus, an indefinite description (of the general form 'a D is A') becomes the following existentially quantified phrase in classic symbolic logic (where 'x' and 'y' are variables and 'D' and 'A' are predicates):\n\nInformally, this reads as follows: there is something such that it is D and A.\n\nThis analysis, according to Russell, solves the second problem noted above as related to indefinite descriptions. Since the phrase \"some dog is annoying\" is not a referring expression, according to Russell's theory, it need not refer to a mysterious non-existent entity. Furthermore, the law of excluded middle need not be violated (i.e. it remains a law), because \"some dog is annoying\" comes out true: there is a thing that is both a dog and annoying. Thus, Russell's theory seems to be a better analysis insofar as it solves several problems.\n\nP. F. Strawson argued that Russell had failed to correctly represent what one means when one says a sentence in the form of \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray.\" According to Strawson, this sentence is not contradicted by \"No one is the current Emperor of Kentucky\", for the former sentence contains not an existential assertion, but attempts to \"use\" \"the current Emperor of Kentucky\" as a referring (or denoting) phrase. Since there is no current Emperor of Kentucky, the phrase fails to refer to anything, and so the sentence is neither true nor false.\n\nAnother kind of counter-example that Strawson and philosophers since have raised concerns that of \"incomplete\" definite descriptions, that is sentences which have the form of a definite description but which do not uniquely denote an object. Strawson gives the example \"the table is covered with books\". Under Russell's theory, for such a sentence to be true there would have to be only one table in all of existence. But by uttering a phrase such as \"the table is covered with books\", the speaker is referring to a particular table: for instance, one that is in the vicinity of the speaker. Two broad responses have been constructed to this failure: a semantic and a pragmatic approach. The semantic approach of philosophers like Stephen Neale suggests that the sentence does in fact have the appropriate meaning as to make it true. Such meaning is added to the sentence by the particular context of the speaker—that, say, the context of standing next to a table \"completes\" the sentence. Ernie Lepore suggests that this approach treats \"definite descriptions as harboring hidden indexical expressions, so that whatever descriptive meaning alone leaves unfinished its context of use can complete\".\n\nPragmatist responses deny this intuition and say instead that the sentence itself, following Russell's analysis, is not true but that the act of uttering the false sentence communicated true information to the listener.\n\nAccording to Keith Donnellan, there are two distinct ways we may use a definite description such as \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is gray\", and thus makes his distinction between the referential and the attributive use of a definite description. He argues that both Russell and Strawson make the mistake of attempting to analyse sentences removed from their context. We can mean different and distinct things while using the same sentence in different situations.\n\nFor example, suppose Smith has been brutally murdered. When the person who discovers Smith's body says, \"Smith's murderer is insane\", we may understand this as the attributive use of the definite description \"Smith's murderer\", and analyse the sentence according to Russell. This is because the discoverer might equivalently have worded the assertion, \"Whoever killed Smith is insane.\" Now consider another speaker: suppose Jones, though innocent, has been arrested for the murder of Smith, and is now on trial. When a reporter sees Jones talking to himself outside the courtroom, and describes what she sees by saying, \"Smith's murderer is insane\", we may understand this as the referring use of the definite description, for we may equivalently reword the reporter's assertion thus: \"That person who I see talking to himself, and who I believe murdered Smith, is insane.\" In this case, we should not accept Russell's analysis as correctly representing the reporter's assertion. On Russell's analysis, the sentence is to be understood as an existential quantification of the conjunction of three components:\n\n\nIf this analysis of the reporter's assertion were correct, then since Jones is innocent, we should take her to mean what the discoverer of Smith's body meant, that whoever murdered Smith is insane. We should then take her observation of Jones talking to himself to be irrelevant to the truth of her assertion. This clearly misses her point.\n\nThus the same sentence, \"Smith's murderer is insane\", can be used to mean quite different things in different contexts. There are, accordingly, contexts in which \"the current Emperor of Kentucky is not gray\" is false because no one is the current Emperor of Kentucky, and contexts in which it is a sentence referring to a person whom the speaker takes to be the current Emperor of Kentucky, true or false according to the of the pretender.\n\nIn \"Reference and Existence\", Saul Kripke argues that while Donnellan is correct to point out two uses of the phrase, it does not follow that the phrase is ambiguous between two meanings. For example, when the reporter \"finds out\" that Jones, the person she has been calling \"Smith's murderer\" did not murder Smith, she will admit that her use of the name was incorrect. Kripke defends Russell's analysis of definite descriptions, and argues that Donnellan does not adequately distinguish meaning from use, or, speaker's meaning from sentence meaning.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1409103", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1409103", "title": "Yankev Shternberg", "text": "Yankev Shternberg\n\nYankev Shternberg (in English language texts occasionally referred to as Jacob Sternberg; ; ; 1890, Lipcani, Bessarabia, Russian Empire – 1973, Moscow, USSR) was a Yiddish theater director, teacher of theater, playwright, \"avant-garde\" poet and short-story writer, best known for his theater work in Romania between the two world wars.\n\nShternberg grew up in the northern Bessarabian shtetl of Lipkany (Yiddish: \"Lipkon\", now Lipcani in Moldova), which was famously termed \"Bessarabian Olympus\" by Hebrew and Yiddish poet Chaim Nachman Bialik and which in the second half of the 19th century produced several major figures of the modern Yiddish and Hebrew belle-lettres, among them Yehuda Shteinberg and Eliezer Shteinbarg. As a child, Shternberg went to school in Kamenets-Podolsky with and closely befriended another important future Yiddish writer Moyshe Altman (although they have parted ways years later)\n\nShternberg debuted in 1908 with a fairy tale in the newspaper \"Unzer Lebn\" (Odessa); published poetry in Reizen's collections \"Fraye Erd\" (1910) and \"Dos Naye Land\" (1911), and in \"Gut Morgn\" (Odessa). Moved to Czernowitz, then to Romania in 1914 and became associated with a short-lived Yiddish-language magazine \"Likht\" (\"Light\"), four issues of which were published in Iaşi between December 1914 and September 1915. \"Likht\" called for a \"renaissance of the Jewish stages in Romania\" and condemned the \"poor foundation\" of Yiddish theater as a commercial institution: \"The Yiddish stage ought to be a place of education, of drawing Jews closer together through the Yiddish word… we will fight against this [commercial] state of things.\"\n\nIsrail Bercovici counts the \"literary-musical\" gatherings sponsored by that magazine as \"the beginning of modern Yiddish theater in Romania\", and sees Shternberg as preparing the way for the Vilna Troupe, the Yiddish theater troupe that brought the ideas of Konstantin Stanislavski to Romania. Nonetheless, Shternberg adopted as a slogan \"Back to Goldfaden\". Calling Abraham Goldfaden \"the Prince Charming who woke up the lethargic Romanian Jewish Culture\" when he founded professional Yiddish theater in 1876 (Iaşi), Shternberg wrote, \"The only milieu that attracts the great Jewish masses is a traditional-cultural theater. Not even a literary theater… From that I created a social-political theater, a theater… [of current events]… which I think was, then, the first of its kind in Yiddish\".\n\nIn the 1910s, Shternberg published poetry in literary magazines \"Hamer\" (Brăila), \"Frayhayt\", \"Arbeter Tsaytung\", \"Dos Naye Lebm\" (all in Czernowitz), as well as in \"Literarishe Bleter\" (Warsaw) and \"Tsayt\" (New York). In 1917, in response to antisemitic violence at that time in Romania and elsewhere in Eastern Europe, he staged passages from Bialik. In 1920, he became the editor of \"Der Veker\", official organ of the Jewish section of the Romanian Socialist Party. In the early 1920s, after spending a year in Berlin, he started his own troupe in Bucharest (theater-review), for which he wrote nine plays (so-called \"revistes\") including \"Tsimes\" (named after a traditional pureed vegetable dish), \"Bukaresht-Yerusholaim\" (\"Bucharest-Jerusalem\"), \"Mitskedrinem\" (\"All of a sudden\"), \"Grine bleter\" (\"Green leaves\"), \"Kukuriku\", \"Sholem-Aleykhem\" (\"Hello\"), \"Hershele Ostropoler\" (\"Hershele of Ostropol\"). In 1924–26, he was the director for the \"Vilner trupe\". The Romanian daily newspaper \"Adevărul\" wrote on August 23, 1924, shortly after the troupe's arrival in Bucharest, that \"Such a demonstration of artistry, even on a small stage such as Jigniţa and even in a language like Yiddish ought to be seen by all who are interested in superior realization of drama.\"\n\nIn 1930 he created a hugely successful studio theater \"BITS\" (\"Bukareshter Yidishe Teater-Studiye\"), housed in Bucharest's Jewish quarter Văcărești, that played a prominent role in the development of modern trends in European theater. BITS staged works of Osip Dymov (\"Yashke-muzikant\" – \"Yashka the Musician\"), Jacob Gordin, I.L. Peretz (\"Banakht afn altn mark\" – \"A night at the old market\"), Sholem Aleichem (\"Oytser\" – \"Treasure\", and most famously \"Der farkishefter shnayder\" – \"The enchanted tailor\"), Leyb Malekh (\"Der Geler Shotn\", 1935), Nikolai Gogol (\"Zhenit'ba\" – \"The Marriage\"), – mostly musical comedies with elements of grotesque, but also I.Y. Singer's \"Yoshe Kalb\" and his own play \"Teater in Flamen\" (\"Theater in Flames\") on the theme of the then-ongoing Spanish Civil War. Sidi Tal starred in many of these productions. The performances were popular with the Bucharest intelligentsia and Peretz's \"Banakht Afn Altn Mark\", for one, was played more than 150 times. During this time, Shternberg published his first collection of poetry, in Bucharest (1938). As antisemitic, pro-fascist tendencies gained power in Bucharest, the theater left for a prolonged tour of major European cities and eventually Shternberg moved to Czernowitz, where he continued his theatrical activities.\n\nIn 1939, Shternberg along with Moyshe Altman sneaked across the Dniester and became a Soviet citizen. A year later, when his native Bessarabia was annexed by the Soviet Union, he and most of his former troupe settled in Kishinev, where Shternberg became artistic director of the Yiddish-language Moldovan State Jewish Theater and staged, among other works, M. Daniel's \"Zyamke Kopatsh\" and Sholom-Aleichem's \"Motl Peysi Dem Khazns\" (\"Motl Peysi, the cantor's son\") with Sidi Tal in the boys' roles. During the war, he and his theatre evacuated to Uzbekistan, where he worked for the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee and was mobilized into a paramilitary construction unit. After the war, he returned to Kishinev and resumed his work at the Moldovan State Jewish Theater, where he staged his play \"Di Balade fun der Esesovke Brunhilde un ir hunt\" (\"The ballad of the SS soldier Brunhilde and her dog\") and published poetry in the almanac \"Heymland\" (1948). He was arrested at the height of the Stalin's campaign against \"rootless cosmopolitans\" (Jews) in the spring of 1949 and was sent to labour camps for 7 years. On his early return and rehabilitation 5 years later, Shternberg settled in Moscow and worked as a translator of Romanian literary works into Russian. He began to publish literary essays and poetry in the newly founded \"Sovetish Heymland\" in 1961 and briefly became a member of its editorial board. Collections of his poetry were published in Bucharest and Paris, and in Hebrew translation by Shlionsky and Penn in Israel on the occasion of his 75th birthday. Shternberg died of a heart attack in 1973 on the very day he received a permission to leave for Israel. His wife, the composer Otiliya Likhtenshteyn, who set his poems and those of other Soviet Yiddish poets (first of all Leib Kvitko) to music, died the same year. A collection of Shternberg's literary essays on theatrical topics was published posthumously in Israel.\n\nA committed socialist, Shternberg wrote that, in the wake of the October Revolution, \"we satirized bourgeois assimilation, struggled with the [Jewish] clergy, fought for progressive Jewish culture, for the emancipation of the Jews, for the rights of citizenship… for progressive Jewish literature.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28904321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28904321", "title": "Yolmo language", "text": "Yolmo language\n\nYolmo (Hyolmo), or Helambu Sherpa, is a Tibeto-Burman language of the Hyolmo people of Nepal. Yolmo is spoken predominantly in the Helambu and Melamchi valleys in northern Nuwakot District and northwestern Sindhupalchowk District. Dialects are also spoken by smaller populations in Lamjung District and Ilam District, and also in Ramecchap District (where it is known as Syuba). It has a very high level of similarity with Kyirong Tibetan, and weaker but still observable similarities to Standard Tibetan and Sherpa.\n\nYolmo is both the name of the language (glottonym), and the ethnic group of people who speak the language (ethnonym). Yolmo is also written \"Hyolmo, Yholmo\" or \"Yohlmo\". The 'h' in all of these spellings marks that the word has low tone. Sometimes the language is referred to as \"Yolmo Tam\", \"tam\" is the Yolmo word for 'language'.\n\nThe language is also referred to as Helambu Sherpa. This usage was common in the 1970s (see, for example, Clarke's work from the early 1980s). This name appears to have been an attempt by Yolmo speakers to align themselves with the widely recognised and prosperous Sherpas of the Solu-Khumbu district. While there are many cultural affinities between the two groups, the Sherpa language is not mutually intelligible with Yolmo. With a growing recognition of Nepal's ethnic minorities (Janajati), Yolmo people have moved away from associating themselves with the Sherpas in recent decades.\n\nYolmo is part of the family of languages called Kyirong-Kagate. The languages of this family are located along the Himalayan hills and mountains mostly on the Nepal side of the border, although Kyirong is in the Tibet Antonymous Region. Along with Yolmo, Kyirong and Syuba, other languages in the family include Tsum, Nubri and Gyalsumdo.\n\nThe language family is better considered be Kyirong-Yolmo. Yolmo has far more speakers (at least 10,000) than Kagate (Syuba) (1,500), Yolmo speakers are found in multiple districts, including Melamchi, Lamung and Ilam, while Kagate speakers are based in Ramechhap. Also, \"Kagate\" is an exonym, and speakers now prefer the endonym \"Syuba,\" which carries less pejorative stigma than the caste-associated term \"Kagate\" ('papermaker')\".\"\n\nThis is part of a larger cluster of Tibetic languages, which all have their roots in the language that was the basis for Classical Tibetan.\n\nYolmo speakers traditionally reside in the Helambu and Melamchi Valley regions in the Nuwakot and Sindhupalchowk districts of Nepal. Yolmo speakers migrated to the area, across the Himalaya, from the Kyriong, in what is now Southwest Tibet, over 300 years ago. This migration appears to have occurred slowly over multiple generations, rather than one large migration event. Main villages where Yolmo speakers reside include Melamchi Ghyang, Tarke Ghyang, Nakote, Kangyul, Sermathang, Norbugoun, Timbu, and Kutumsang.\n\nYolmo speakers are Buddhist of the Nyingma school. Yolmo Lamas are called upon to perform religious rituals for the Tamang-speaking communities that live in villages below the Yolmo-inhabited areas. This has created a strong socio-cultural link between the two groups that is reflected in traditional marriage practice where Tamang women marry into Yolmo villages. There is also a tradition of bon shaman practice in the Yolmo area. This practice appears to be evolving fit with the modern focus on Buddhism among Yolmo people. For example, blood sacrifices are no longer performed as commonly.\n\nTraditionally Yolmo people were yak herders and traders. They currently practice a combination of mixed agriculture involving livestock herding, hotel management, restaurants, and trading. Although outward migrants would often return to village life, speakers of Yolmo are increasing settling in Kathmandu, or moving overseas, which has an effect on transmission of the language as speakers move towards dominant languages of formal education such as Nepal and English.\n\nFor more on the history of Yolmo speakers, see the Yolmo people page.\n\nThere are a number of dialects of Yolmo, spread throughout Nepal, thanks to migration in recent centuries, including in Lamjung and Ilam. There are also closely related languages that should be considered when discussing Yolmo, including Kagate (Syuba) and Langtang. Some of these varieties have been documented in more detail than others. Below is a list of established dialects, including what is known about each.\n\nThe variety of Yolmo documented by Anna Marie Hari is mostly spoken in the Melamchi Valley area. Hari documented the variety of Yolmo mostly spoken around the villages of Sermathang and Chhimi. Hari also encountered speakers from other areas in the Melamchi and Helambu valleys, and suggested there are two dialects across this area. mostly distinguished by vocabulary. The two dialects are the 'western' dialect, mostly in Nuwakot district and the 'eastern' dialect, which Hari's work focuses on. While discussing these dialects Hari also observes that the variety spoken around Tarkeghyang is different again, suggesting there may be more than two dialects spoken in the area.\n\nHari produced a Yolmo-Nepali-English dictionary of the language with Chhegu Lama, and a sketch grammar. Hari's also translated the New Testament of the Bible into Yolmo. Original cassette recordings of her work have been digitised and archived with PARADISEC. Unless otherwise stated, all discussion of the grammar of Yolmo on this page is drawn from the work on Melamchi Valley Yolmo. \n\nNorthwest of the Yolmo-speaking areas in the Langtang valley of the Rasuwa District are three villages that speak a language that is mutually intelligible with Yolmo. This language also shares features with Kyirong and is likely part of a dialect continuum between Yolmo and Kyirong.\n\nLamjung Yolmo is spoken by around 700 people in five villages of the Lamjung District of Nepal. Yolmo speakers have been residing in this area for over a century. Gawne has written a sketch grammar and a Lamjung Yolmo-Nepali-English dictionary. There is also a digital archive of Lamjung Yolmo recordings archived with PARADISEC.\n\nA dialect of Yolmo is reportedly spoken in the Ilam District of far east Nepal. There is very little documentation of this variety, but it is mutually intelligible with Syuba. Recordings from the dialect are available as a subset of an online collection of Syuba materials archived with PARADISEC.\n\nAlthough Syuba has a distinct name, and a separate ISO 639-3 code, linguistically it can be considered a dialect of Yolmo. Syuba speakers say their families migrated to the area more than a century ago. Hari, who worked on both Yolmo and Syuba observes that \"to quite a large extent they are mutually intelligible dialects\". The lexical similarity between Syuba and Melamchi Valley Yolmo is at least 79%, with the similarity between Syuba and Lamjung Yolmo even higher (88%). There is a higher level of similarity between Yolmo and Syuba than there is between either of these languages and Kyirong. This all suggests that the separated dialects may have more in common with each other than with the main dialect area.\nThe vitality of the language varies depending on the location. In the Melamchi Valley area the language is spoken mostly by older adults. The younger generations having largely shifted to Nepali, though the language is being maintained for religious practices. The shift towards Nepali for younger speakers has also been observed in Lamjung, as this is the language used in schools. The Syuba variety in Ramechhap is currently still spoken across all generations, including children. There is insufficient data on the Ilam or Langtang variety to assess their vitality at this stage.\n\nYolmo does not have a written tradition although there are attempts to develop an orthography based on Devanagari, the script used to write the national language Nepali, as seen in the publication of two dictionaries. Syuba speakers also settled on a Devanagari orthography for their dictionary. All of these dictionaries also present the languages in Roman orthographies.\n\nThe modifications to Devanagari are minor, and are intended to ensure that all sounds in the language can be represented. None of the orthographies use the 'inherent schwa vowel', meaning that a consonant without an overt vowel is not treated as having an implied vowel. Consonants remain the same as in the existing Devanagari tradition, with the use of joined digraphs to represent additional sounds in the language, such as the combination of क (k) and य (y) for the palatal stop क्य ([c] 'kh'), स (s) and य (y) for the palatal fricative स्य ([ʃ] 'sh'), र and ह for the voiceless liquid र्ह ([r̥] 'rh'), and ल and ह for the voiceless lateral ल्ह ([l̥] 'lh').\n\nVowel length is unmarked in the Syuba dictionary, in the two Yolmo dictionaries the standard Devanagari length distinctions are made, with the addition of a small diacritic below the 'a' vowel ( ा) to indicate a longer vowel. The Hari & Lama and Gawne dictionaries both use ह (h) after the vowel to mark low tone (e.g. टाह \"ʈà\" 'pheasant'), while in the Syuba orthography a colon represents the low tone (टाः \"ʈà\" 'pheasant'). High tone is left unmarked.\n\nAll three dictionaries also make use of variations on a Romanised orthography, although this does not appear to be used or preferred by Yolmo speakers, and is intended for the English-literate audience of the dictionaries. Consonants predominantly take their form from the International Phonetic Alphabet, with some exception where there is a more common preference in English, such as digraphs for the palatal stops ([c] 'ky', [c] 'khy', [ɟ] 'gy') and non-superscript for aspiration (e.g. \"phá\" 'pig'). This is represented in the consonant chart in the Phonology section.\n\nThe vowels in Yolmo follow the International Phonetic Alphabet, except for [ɔ] which uses 'o' for ease of typing. Long vowels are represented by double characters, e.g. [ɲíː] 'two' is represented as \"ɲíi\", except in the Syuba dictionary where vowel length is not indicated in either the Devanagari or Roman scripts. For tone Hari uses a 'h' after the vowel to represent low tone, (e.g. \"toh\" 'stone') with high tone unmarked (e.g. \"to\" 'rice'), Gawne uses the International Phonetic Alphabet convention of using accents over the vowel to mark high and low tone (e.g. \"tó\" 'rice' and \"tò\" 'stone'), while the Syuba dictionary uses a superscript at the start of the syllable to mark low tone (e.g. \"to\" 'stone') with high tone unmarked.\n\nOn this page the orthography mostly follows Hari's transcription, as outlined in the phonology. Unlike Hari, representation of tone follows the International Phonetic Alphabet, with accents to mark high and low tone (e.g. \"tó\" 'rice' and \"tò\" 'stone' respectively). This avoids Hari's use of 'h' to represent both low tone and the sound [h].\n\nThe sections below contain an overview of the key features of the grammar of Yolmo. Information is mostly drawn from Hari's grammar of the language, supplemented by the Yolmo-Nepali-English dictionary she co-wrote with Chhegu Lama. Differences between this variety and other documented dialects are indicated where relevant. Links to other related languages will also be made where relevant.\n\nAll example sentences are presented with an interlinear gloss. This breaks down the words on a morpheme level, giving information about the meaning of each morpheme using a standard set of glossing abbreviations. All examples are cited back to the original publication they are drawn from. Some glossing has been regularised, or added where it was not included in the original.\n\nThere are 36 consonants in Yolmo, which are summarized in the table below. The form is given in IPA and then to the right in brackets is given the form used in this article, if different.\n\nNot all consonants are equally frequent. In particular [h], [r̥] and [l̥] are not particularly frequent, nor are vowel-initial words.\n\nThere are five places of articulation for vowels. There is a length distinction at each place of articulation. The form of each vowel is given in IPA and then to the right in brackets is given the form used in this article, if different.\nBelow are some minimal pairs that demonstrate the vowel length distinction:\nVowel-length distinctions are not common across Tibetic language, but they are also attested in Syuba (although Syuba speakers do not consider them salient enough to encode in the orthography) and in Kyirong for open syllables.\n\nUnlike many other Tibetic languages, including Kyirong, and Standard Tibetan, Yolmo does not have a front rounded [y]. This is true for all dialects of Yolmo documented to date, including Syuba. Langtang, however, does have this vowel.\n\nLike other Tibetic languages, Yolmo has tone, which is located on the first vowel of a word. Hari presents a four tone contrast of Melamchi Valley Yolmo; high level, high falling, low level and low falling. Acoustic evidence from Lamjung Yolmo and Kagate indicates that there is only acoustic evidence for a contrast between two tones; low and high. Below are some examples of tone minimal pairs:\n\nLow tone words can be marked with breathy voice, but this is not always the case. The practice of indicating low tone with a 'h' following the vowel in some orthographies is related to this breathy property of low-tone vowels. The high tone, which uses modal voice, is left unmarked.\n\nTone is predictable in some environments. It is always high following aspirated stops, aspirated affricates and voiceless liquids (which speakers treat as equivalent to aspirated). Examples of all of these include:\nTone is always low following voiced stops, voiced fricatives and voiced affricates. Examples of all of these include:\nThe only prefixes in the language are the negator prefixes \"mà-\" and \"mè-\". Both have low tone, however if the following root has high tone it will not change tone because of the preceding low suffix.\n\nYolmo has the syllable structure (C)(C)V(C). This means that the minimum a syllable needs is a vowel. Syllables can also have up to two consonants before the vowel and one after the vowel. \nAll consonants and vowels can occur word-initial, with a restricted set able to occur in the second syllable. The set of syllable initial consonant clusters includes /pr, br, kr, py, phy, sw, kw, the, rw/.\n\nAll vowels can occur syllable-final, and final consonants include voiceless unaspirated bilabial /b/ and velar stops /k/, voiced liquids /l,r/, the voiced labio-velar /w/ and all nasals except the palatal /m, n, ng/.\n\nThere is a regular process by which the suffixes undergo a change depending on the nature of the verb that they are attached to. Suffixes that begin with a voiceless stop, such as the non-past \"-ke\", the imperative \"-toŋ\" or the hortative \"-ka\"\",\" all undergo regular morphophonological processes. If they occur after a syllable with a final sound that is voiced they will also be voiced, if they occur after an unvoiced final sound, or an /r/ the start of the suffix will be unvoiced. The examples below are with the non-past \"-ke\"\":\" \nThe only forms that cannot be predicted by this process is if the suffix is after /i/ or /e/, both of which are high front vowels. The voicing cannot be predicted in this context, and the suffix is sometimes voiced and sometimes unvoiced. Below are examples of verbs with both /i/ and /e/: \n\nThere is also a tendency for suffixes that begin with -k/ -g to omit the initial sound after a vowel. This is not as regular a process as the voicing alterations described above. Below are some examples of this process:\n\nYolmo has the basic word order of Subject-Object-Verb. This is common in the Tibeto-Burman family.\n\nThe noun phrase in Yolmo includes either a noun or a pronoun. The noun phrase with a noun can also include a determiner, adjective and number marker, while the options are more limited with a pronoun or proper noun. Noun suffixes include case markers, plural marker and numeral classifiers.\n\nThe order of the noun phrase is (Determiner) Noun=Plural(-Focus Marker)(=Case) (Numeral Classifier) (Number) (Adjective).\n\nThe Yolmo definite determiner is \"dì\" the same as the third person inanimate pronoun 'it/this'. It occurs before the noun:\nThe indefinite is marked using the numeral \"tɕíi\" 'one', which comes after the noun, like other numbers: \n\nYolmo pronouns are presented in the table below. There is an inclusive/exclusive distinction for first person plural pronouns, a gender distinction for third person singular and an animacy distinction for third person.\n\nThe first person plural \"òraŋ\" is more commonly found in the Western dialects of Melamchi and Helambu Valley Yolmo, as well as Lamjung Yolmo, while \"ùu\" is more common in the Eastern dialects. It is possible to create a dual form by adding \"ɲíi\" to the plural form (e.g. \"khyá ɲíi\" 'you two'), although this is optional.\n\nThe third person plural \"khúŋ\" can also be used as a polite form for a single third person.\n\nPronouns do not take determiners, number, or adjectives.\n\nInterrogative pronouns are used to form questions. Yolmo has the following attested interrogative pronouns: \nHari gives both \"kà\" and \"kàla (kà\" with the dative suffix) as forms for 'where' in Melamchi Valley Yolmo, but only \"kàla\" is attested in Lamjung Yolmo. There are also a number of forms for 'why', \"tɕípe\" and \"tɕíle\" are attested in both Melamchi Valley Yolmo and Lamjung Yolmo, but only \"tɕí mée\" in Melamchi Valley Yolmo. This is because it uses the verb \"mée\" 'say' as part of the construction, which is not in Lamjung Yolmo (see the section on reported speech, as well as the word list). The \"kànmu\" form of 'how' is attested in Lamjung Yolmo, while \"kànɖu\" is used in Melamchi Valley Yolmo, with an optional \"-mu\" suffix to make \"kànɖu-mu.\" Hari and Lama also note the form \"kànɖu-bar\" in the Western regions.\n\nNote that the words \"súgi\" and \"súla\" are complex forms, \"súgi\" is \"sú\" 'who' with the genitive case suffix, and \"súla\" is \"sú\" with the dative case suffix.\n\nFor more on the structure of interrogative clauses, see the section on question formation.\n\nProper nouns include people's names, place names and the names of deities. They do not take determiners, number, or adjectives.\n\nThe plural marker in Melamchi and Lamjung Yolmo is \"=ya\".The plural is treated as a clitic as it occurs after an adjective if there is one, rather than always attaching directly to the noun: \nPlural marking is optional if an overt number is used with the noun, or if the number is clear from context: \nThe plural form in Syuba is =\"kya\", which is more similar to the Kyirong form, suggesting the Yolmo \"=ya\" is an innovation.\n\nYolmo has a nominal focus marker \"-ti\". The focus marker gives prominence to the noun it is attached to. In the example below, the older brother is singled out, contrasted with other relatives who perhaps did not obtain such wealth:\nHari also notes for Melamchi Valley Yolmo that there is a focus marker \"-ka\", which is used specifically to mark something as contrary to expectation. \n\nNouns can also take the emphatic suffixes \"-ni\" and \"-raŋ\", which are also used for other parts of speech (see section on lexical emphasis).\n\nYolmo uses post-positional suffixes to mark the case of nouns. Similar to other Tibetic languages, Yolmo uses a single case form for multiple functions. Case marking is treated as a clitic, as clitics come at the end of the whole noun phrase, rather than directly attaching to only the noun. Below the cases are listed with their functions.\nThe case markers are phonologically bound, with the =\"ki\" form becoming voiced in some environments, it is also reduced to =\"i\" in some environments. See the section on morphophonemic processes for more on this.\n\nWhere there is also a plural the case marker comes after the plural, as in the example below:\n\nYolmo has optional ergative case-marking. Ergative marking means that subjects of intransitive verbs are unmarked, the same as objects of transitive verbs. Subjects of transitive verbs are distinguistshed from both of these with the \"=ki\" marker (in contrast to nominative-accusitive languages like English, where the subjects of both intransitive and transitive verbs are marked in contrast with objects of transitive verbs).\n\nBelow is an intransitive sentence, with the subject \"ŋà\" taking no marking:\nIn contrast with this ergative-marked transitive, where the subject \"ŋà\" is marked with the ergative:\n\nSpeakers do not always use the ergative case, which is why it is considered 'optional':\n\nErgative marking is more common for past tense, and non-habitual actions. There also appears to be some effect of animacy, and the ergative appears to be used as a strategy in discourse to mark agentivity. This form of optional ergativity is common across the Tibeto-Burman family.\n\nDative case is typically used to indicate, broadly, the noun to which something is given. The Yolmo dative has this function, but it also has a function in 'dative subject' constructions. The dative subject occurs with a small set of intransitive verbs, and denote personal, and usually internal, states.\nThe use of dative subjects is common in languages of this area, and is also attested more broadly.\n\nAs can be seen in the examples above, cardinal numbers can be used in noun phrases. A list of numbers in Yolmo is given in the section on numbers below.\n\nYolmo also has an optional numeral classifier \"thál\". This is used to emphasise number. In the example in the section on case marking above, the speaker is emphasising that the hens laid a large number of eggs.\n\nLamjung Yolmo also has the classifier \"mènda\" which can only be used with humans.\n\nAdjectives occur within the noun phrase. Adjectives usually come after the noun so 'small child' would be \"pìʑa tɕháme\" (lit. 'child small'). Adjectives can also occur before the noun, especially in casual speech.\n\nThere are three main types of verbs in Yolmo, lexical verbs, auxiliary verbs and copula verbs. The lexical verbs inflect for tense, aspect, mood and evidence and can take negation. The infinitive form of verbs takes the suffix -\"tɕe.\" The infinitive is used in a number of constructions, including the habitual and complementation.\n\nThe copula verbs and their functions are given in the table below. Copulas are not inflected for person, number or politeness level and many do not distinguish tense:\n\nEquation copulas are used to link two noun phrases, while existential copulas are used for functions of existence, location, attribution and possession. Hari describes the forms that end in \"-pa\" (voiced in this environment so they become \"-ba)\" as more emphatic, unlike lexical verbs with a \"-pa\" suffix they do not indicate past tense, and are not used exclusively in question structures.\n\nSome copula verbs can also be used as verbal auxiliaries, particularly in constructions marked for aspect, where they contribute evidential, tense or epistemic information. The negative forms of each copula are given in the section on negation.\n\nBelow the different evidential and epistemic functions of each copula type are discussed.\n\nThe egophoric, or personal, is used to indicate that the speaker has personal knowledge about the information. In the example below, the speaker would not be reading the name of the book, but already know the name as they show it to someone else:\nUnlike in Standard Tibetan, the speaker does not need to be personally close to an individual to use the egophoric while talking about them.\n\nDifferent varieties of Yolmo prefer different forms of the egophoric as the default; In Helambu they prefer \"yìn\", in Lamjung \"yìmba\" and Ilam \"yìŋge\". \"yèken\" is past tense forms of the existential (\"yèke\" in Lamjung), with the form \"yèba\" also often used in past tense structures, as well as questions. The past form cannot be further decomposed, as the form \"-ken/-ke\" is the non-past tense suffix for lexical verbs.\n\nThere are some structures where the egophoric is used as the default, such as conditionals.\n\nUnlike the other copulas, which mark evidential distinctions, the dubitative copulas are epistemic forms used for reduced certainty. They are related to the \"-ʈo\" dubitative suffixes for lexical verbs. In the example below, the speaker does not have any direct evidence that Rijan is in the house, but thinks that is where he might be:\n\nThe perceptual, or sensory, evidential is used to mark information acquired through direct sensory evidence, either through sight, one of the other senses, or internal state (such as feeling an ache). \n\nHari calls the perceptual forms mirative, as indicating knowledge through sense often occurs for information recently acquired. Only the \"dùba\" form, with the emphatic suffix \"-pa\", appears to indicate some amount of surprise or counter-expectation.\n\nThe general fact form is used for uncontroversial and universally known facts. This verb is used in functions of existence, location, attribution and possession, and is not used in equational structures. \nThe form is \"òŋgen\" in Melamchi Valley Yolmo and \"òŋge\" in Lamjung Yolmo, demonstrating a link with the non-past tense suffix. The verb itself is from the lexical verb \"òŋ-\" 'come'. It cannot be used for facts about the past. This copula is not attested in Standard Tibetan or any other Tibetic language outside of Yolmo.\n\nThe Melamchi Valley variety of Yolmo exhibit verb stem alterations in the context of some verb structures.\n\nVerb stems with short front vowels have their vowels lengthened (e.g. /i/→/ii/), short back vowels are fronted and lengthened (e.g. /o/ and /a/→/ee/, /u/→/i/). These changes occur mostly with perfective structures and imperatives. Below are some examples of this alternation using the verb \"má-\" 'say':\nWhen these structures are negated, the negative prefix is lengthened rather than the verb stem, which maintains the vowel change (this does not occur in the imperative).\nThese alterations do not occur in Lamjung Yolmo or Syuba.\n\nThere is a small set of auxiliary verbs in Yolmo. The auxiliary \"tè\"- is the same as the lexical verb \"tè\"- 'sit' and is used to add imperfective aspect:\n\nA subset of the copulas can also be used as verbal auxiliaries; \"yìn, yè, yèken \"and\" dù\". These contribute evidential information and for \"yè/yèken\" also some tense information. As you can see in the example above the \"dù\" copula is being used as an auxiliary, so they can co-occur with the other auxiliaries.\n\nYolmo has a major tense distinction between past and non-past. These are marked with suffixes on the lexical verb, \"-sin \"is the past tense marker and -\"ke\" or -\"ken \"is the non-past marker.\n\nThe past tense form is \"-sin.\"\n\nThe past tense form \"-sin\" can also occur with the perceptual evidential \"dú\" in an auxiliary position. This is not possible with the non-past tense suffix, nor can any other copula be used as an auxiliary with the past tense suffix. Hari suggests this structure is inferential, in that the speaker did not have to witness the event, Gawne describes it as 'narrative past'.\nMelamchi Valley Yolmo also has a past tense form \"-kyo\" that Hari refers to as the 'main-point past/ telling past’, this form is not found in Lamjung Yolmo.\n\nThere is also the form \"-pa\", which Hari says is always used in question structures. In Lamjung Yolmo there are some examples where it is used in declaratives rather than questions, with a past-tense meaning.\n\nThe non-past tense is used for both present and future constructions. Hari gives the forms \"-ke\" and -\"ken \"for Melamchi Valley Yolmo, but only \"-ke\" is attested in Lamjung Yolmo. \nHari refers to this form as the 'intentional present' but it can also be used in future constructions:\n\nThere are a number of verb suffixes that are used to mark aspect, these broadly fall into categories of imperfective and perfective, as well as habitual. When an aspect form is used, a copula verb is also used.\n\nThe imperfective is used for events that are ongoing or not complete. The \"-ku\" suffix is attested in both Melamchi Valley and Lamjung Yolmo. It can only be used with the \"dù\" copula verb.\n\nThe imperfective form -\"teraŋ\" can be used with either the \"dù\" or \"yè\" copula verb. In Lumjung Yolmo some speakers pronounce it as \"-tiraŋ.\" Hari refers to the -\"teraŋ\" construction as the 'perfect continuous aspect', because it can be used to refer to something that was ongoing until a particular point, as per this first example:\n\nGawne describes it as an imperfective, as it does not appear to have this perfect aspect function in Lamjung Yolmo, as per this example:\n\nThe auxiliary verb \"tè\" can also be used to mark an imperfective construction. Neither \"-ku\" nor -\"teraŋ\" are used if the negative prefix is on the main verb. The auxiliary verb can be used in negative constructions, and takes the negative prefix, rather than the main verb. In the example below, the -\"teraŋ\" imperfective is used as the negative prefix is on the auxiliary:\n\nThe perfective aspect suffix is used for events that can be described as whole, without reference to the duration like the imperfective. The perfective form in Yolmo is \"-ti.\"\n\nMultiple verbs with perfective aspect can be used together to create a clause chaining structure. It is distinct from the nominal focus suffix \"-ti.\"\n\nHabitual aspect marks that an event is usual, customary or frequent. There is no specific habitual aspect suffix for Yolmo. Speakers will either use a verb with an infinitive, or with no suffix.\n\nMood is marked in Yolmo with a set of verb suffixes. The main mood suffixes are given in the table below\n\nThe polite imperative suffix is -\"toŋ\" (voiced as \"-doŋ\" after voiced codas and some vowels). An overt subject is not used, and the same imperative form is used regardless of person or number:\nThe less polite form of the imperative consists of an unmarked verb stem: \n\nThere are also a small number of irregular imperatives that are formed without the imperative suffix, particularly \"sò\" 'eat!', from \"sà\"- 'eat'.\n\nIf there is an honorific form of the verb it can be used, unmarked, as the most polite form of the imperative: \nThe negative form of the imperative (the prohibitive) uses the \"mà-\" form of the negator prefix with the verb stem. The imperative suffix is not included.\n\nGawne notes two verbal suffix forms for the hortative in Lamjung Yolmo, a \"-ka\" and a \"-tɕo.\"\n\nThe \"-ka\" form is used with all persons except first person singular.\n\nThe suffix remains in negated horatitves:\nThe \"-tɕo\" form is used with first person singular, as well as with other persons. It also remains in negative constructions. \n\"-tɕo\" appears to be less strong, and tends to be used more frequently. Hari gives the form as \"-tɕo\" (she also calls it an optative, but it appears to be a hortative) \n\nHari does not list an optative suffix. Gawne gives the optative -\"ɲi\" in Lamjung Yolmo. \nHari & Lama (2004: 146) list \"ɲi-\" as a verb that expresses a 'strong wish’, clearly linking to the Lamjung Yolmo optative form.\n\nHari describes the dubitative as 'probable future', indicating the sense of decreased certainty that the dubitative mood marks. The forms \"-ʈo, -ɖo\" and \"-ro\" are found in Melamchi Valley Yolmo as part of the morphophonemic voicing process, but the \"-ro\" form is not found in Lamjung Yolmo.\nThis verb suffix is related to the dubitative form of the copula.\n\nNegation is marked on lexical verbs by prefix. There are two prefix forms, \"mè-\" is for negation in non-past tense (present and future), while \"mà\"- is used for past tense, as well as negation of imperatives (\"mà-tàp!\" 'don't fall'!). \nThe negated forms of copulas are slightly irregular. They are listed in the table below in brackets underneath the regular forms:\n\nThis section outlines some of the main features of the structure of clauses in Yolmo.\n\nNominalisation is the process by which words undergo a change that allows them to act as nouns. While nominalisation is common process, it is particularly pervasive in Bodic languages, where it can be used for a variety of functions, including the formation of complement clauses and relative clauses. The common Bodic nominaliser \"-pa \" productively functions in Yolmo as a suffix that can mark past tense, question structures or emphasis. There are other nominalising forms in Yolmo.\n\nHari describes a number of nominalisers in Melamchi Valley Yolmo. The first is the nominalising suffix \"-ka\": \n\nA number of other nominalising suffixes that attach to verbs have more specific functions:\nIn Lamjung Yolmo the most productive nominaliser is \"-kandi\". None of the others described above have been attested. This form is not attested in Hari's description of Melamchi Valley Yolmo, but is probably related to the \"-ka\" form described above.\n\nThere is also a locative nominaliser \"-sa\", which creates a noun that denotes location:\n\nAn adverbial structure modifies the verb in some way.\n\nTemporal adverbs can create subordinated clauses.\n\nBelow is the list of temporal adverbs observed in Yolmo to date, some are independent words, and others are verbal suffixes:\n\nManner adverbs create a subordinated clause that expresses the manner of an action. The manner adverb is \"lèemu\" (\"lìmu\" in Lamjung).\nThe forms \"tíle\" and \"dènmu\" are also found in Lamjung Yolmo, but not yet attested in other varieties.\n\nConditional constructions are formed through the use of the suffix \"-na\" on the verb in the protasis clause (the 'if' clause). Speakers will either use the \"-na\" suffix directly on the verb, or leave the verb unmarked at attach the \"-na\" suffix to the verb meaning ‘say’ (\"mée\" in Melamchi Valley Yolmo, \"làp\" in Lamjung Yolmo). \n\nA complement clause is a clause that functions as an argument of another clause. In Yolmo the embedded complement clause takes the infinitive suffix \"-tɕe\". \nThe optative mood suffix \"-ɲi\" in Yolmo can also be said to be acting as a complementiser.\n\nA relative clause is depended on a main clause. Different relativising strategies are used in the two described varieties of Yolmo. In Melamchi Valley Yolmo the non-past tense form \"-ken(-gi)\" is used for non-past constructions, and the past tense form \"-kyo(-gi)\" is used for past tense constructions (for each the \"-gi\" is optional). Similarly, in Lamjung Yolmo, \"-ke-ki\" can be used for non-past relativised clauses and -\"pa-ki f\"or past relativised clauses. This difference reflects the fact that the past tense form -\"kyo\" is not found in Lamjung Yolmo.\nIn Lamjung Yolmo, the nominaliser \"-kandi\" can be used to make a relative clause:\n\nThe perfective suffix \"-ti\" is used to chain clauses together. Multiple verbs with this suffix can be stacked to create a complex series of events.\n\nWord order does not change to form questions in Yolmo. Rising intonation at the end of the utterance can indicate it is a question. A set of interrogative pronouns are used for open content questions.\n\nThe \"-pa\" suffix, which was introduced in the section on past tense is used in question structures.\nThe reply would be with the regular past tense, and not the \"-pa\" suffix:\nThe copula form used in a question matches the form the question-asked anticipates the question-answerer will use in their answer. That is, if they anticipate the answer will use the perceptual evidential \"dù\", this is the form they will use in asking the question.\n\nYolmo has two strategies for reporting speech, the first is using the lexical verb \"má\" or \"làp\" 'say', the second is using the clause final evidential particle \"ló.\"\n\nIn Melamchi Valley Yolmo the main lexical verb of saying is \"má,\" in Lamjung Yolmo it is \"làp\". Hari and Lama note that \"làp\" is found in Melamchi Valley Yolmo, but in restricted use. If the speaker, and the person the speech is directed at are overtly marked, these usually proceed the reported content (although they are frequently not overt in natural speech). The 'say' verb prototypically occurs after the reported content, although if the reported content is quite long the verb may occasionally come before it.\nThe lexical verb 'say' is also used in a number of other constructions, including conditionals.\n\nThe reported speech particle also indicates that the speaker is reporting a prior utterance, but has a different focus. The reported speech particle does not account for who the speaker way, but instead primarily serves to focus on the fact the information is reported, and not directly witnessed by the speaker. In the example below from Syuba, it is not made explicit if the report comes from Maila, or another person. The reported speech evidential occurs frequently in narratives. \n\nThis is part of the wider evidential system of Yolmo, which is also found in the copula verbs above.\n\nThere are two emphatic suffixes that can be used with a number of word classes. This is in contrast to the emphatic form \"-ti\", which is only used with nouns. The first is \"-ni, and\" the second is \"-raŋ\", which Hari & Lama note is a frequently used emphatic marker in informal speech. The distinction between all of these forms is unclear, although Hari refers to the \"-ni\" form as used for 'moderate focus', so it is perhaps less emphatic for nouns than the \"-ti\" suffix.\n\nYolmo has a series of sentence final particles that can be used to achieve a range of effects. The table below gives some of the particles in Yolmo and a brief description of their function.\nThe reported speech marker \"ló \"is an evidential form, as it indicates the source of the information as someone else. This structure is described in the section on reported speech.\n\nYolmo has a subset of honorific vocabulary which is used when talking to, or about, people of higher social status, particularly Buddhist Lamas. Honorific lexicon includes nouns, verbs and adjectives. The table below gives some examples, including the regular word, the honorific form, and the English translation.\n\nThe use of honorifics in Syuba and Lamjung Yolmo is not as common, although some speakers still recognise and use these forms.\n\nBelow is a 100 word Swadesh list in Yolmo. The Yolmo forms are taken from Hari and Lama, who note some variation between the Eastern (E) and Western (W) varieties in the Melamchi and Helambu Valley area. Where the form is different in other varieties this is indicated in the right-hand column of the table. This variation shows that the Lamjung variety and Syuba have more in common with each other lexically than they do with the Melamchi Valley variety.\n\nYolmo has a base-20 counting system.\n\nThe Yolmo number system is very similar to that of Standard Tibetan and other Tibetan varieties. In the table below is the Yolmo number, taken from Hari's dictionary. \n\nIn Lamjung Yolmo, the base-20 system is only used by a small number of older speakers, with others using a base-10 system. For example, 'twenty' is \"ɲídʑu\", 'thirty' is \"súmdʑu\", 'forty' is \"ɕíptɕu\", etc. Even then, once people reach 20 the usually switch to counting in Nepali.\n\nOrdinal numbers are formed by addition of the suffix \"-pa\", or alternatively with the suffix \"-pu\" for ordinals relating to people, in Melamchi Yolmo. Ordinals are typically only formed up to 20. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32646478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32646478", "title": "Yossi Abulafia", "text": "Yossi Abulafia\n\nYossi Abulafia (; born 1944) is an Israeli writer and illustrator of children's books, as well as a graphic artist, cartoonist, director and screenwriter of animation films.\n\nAbulafia was born in Tiberias in 1944 in what was then the British Mandate of Palestine. At age 17, he was accepted to Israel's national school of art \"Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design\". He graduated from the school after majoring graphic design for 4 years. After his military service Abulafia began to work in the Israeli Channel 1 as graphic artist and cartoonist.\n\nIn 1975 Abulafia illustrated the back cover for Kaveret's third album \"Crowded in the Ear\" (צפוף באוזן) which was a collage of images illustrating the various songs on the album in the style of the famous Monty Python illustrations done by Terry Gilliam.\n\nTowards the mid-1980s Abulafia moved to North America, where he worked for six years as an animation producer and as a director in both Canada and the United States. During these years Abulafia began to illustrate and write children's books, both for Israelis and for Americans.\n\nIn 1990 Abulafia published the children's book \"HaKina Nechama\" (Hebrew: Nechama the Head Louse) which was written by Meir Shalev and illustrated by Abulafia. The book, which humorously describes the adventures of a head louse, became very popular and influential in Israel and was adapted to other media numerous times.\n\nIn 1999 Abulafia created all the transition animated clips of the 1999 Eurovision song contest held in Israel, which were based on the stories of the Bible.\n\nTo date, Abulafia has illustrated more than 140 books (eight of them were written by him), and is widely known for illustrating the children's books written by Ephraim Sidon and Meir Shalev.\n\nAbulafia used to illustrate for the Israeli newspapers \"Hadashot\" and \"Ma'ariv\", and served as the head of the animation department at the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design, which he established together with Hanan Kaminski.\n\nAbulafia currently resides in the Israeli settlement of Har Adar, and serves as a senior lecturer in the animation department of the Bezalel Academy of Arts and Design.\n\n\n\n"}
