{"id": "32713834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32713834", "title": "Agrifirm", "text": "Agrifirm\n\nAgrifirm is a cooperative enterprise in which more than 17.000 Dutch farmers and horticulturalists have combined their purchasing power. Agrifirm in its current form was founded in 2010 due to a successive merger of regional cooperatives. The enterprise operates as a link for farmers being currently active throughout the entire Netherlands. The Coöperative also has business units in Belgium, Germany, France, Spain, Romania, Hungary, Poland, Serbia, Ukraine, Brazil, Uruguay and China. The head office is located in Apeldoorn, the Netherlands.\n\nAgrifirm grew out from the Cooperative Agricultural Bank and Trading Company \"(Coöperatieve Landbouwersbank en Handelsvereeniging)\" established on 13 April 1909 with the purpose of taking advantage on joint purchasing and sales of agricultural products and equipment. The office was located in Meppel. Later on it was expended further with a feed mill, grain silos and fertilizer sheds. Besides, it operated as a bank as well as a plant for artificial insemination.\n\nThe original function of the company was expended due to several mergers in the 1960s and 1970s. At that time the name of the company was Cooperative Agricultural Bank Meppel \"(Coöperatieve Landbouwersbank Meppel - CLM)\". In the 1980s the bank division became an independent operating unit as Rabobank Meppel and surroundings. In 1990 there was a merger among CLM, Aceco (Groningen) and CAF (Leeuwarden) resulting the Purchase and Sales Cooperative Meppel \"(Aan- en verkoop Coöperatie Meppel - ACM)\". The “old” Agrifirm - which has covered two-third of the Netherlands in terms of providing agricultural products and services (excluding Southern Netherlands) - was established due to the merger between ACM and Cavo Latuco (in Utrecht) in 2002. Since 1 June 2010 Agrifirm as it is now exists following the merger between the Agrifirm cooperative (in Meppel) and Cehave Landbouwbelang (in Veghel) – the latest had the jurisdiction in Southern Netherlands. The head office is located in Apeldoorn.\n\nThe agricultural cooperative organization of Cehave Landbouwbelang (CHV LBB) was formed by the merger of Cehave and Landbouwbelang in 2000. Both companies covered a different region: Cehave was active in North Brabant while Landbouwbelang operated in Limburg. The headquarters of the cooperative organization was located in Veghel.\n\nIn 2007 the cooperative had approximately 5300 Dutch members and owned a number of companies mainly active in the field of animal feed production and trade. With 1500 employees Cehave Landbouwbelang operated in the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Poland, Hungary and China and was continuously growing further during years. In 2010 CHV LBB merged with Agrifirm and the “new” Agrifirm as it is now was established. However CHV LBB lost its name during the merger, the old logo still exists with the new Agrifirm slogan of \"Link to Success\".\n\nAgrifirm provides products and services in the following areas:\n\nThe head office is situated in Apeldoorn, the Netherlands. Agrifirm operates in several locations including many factories: the plant in Meppel produces poultry feed; in Veghel and Zwolle there are plants which produce pork feed; the plants in Utrecht, Oss and Drachten produce cattle feed while plants located in Maasbracht and Wanssum produce both pork feed and poultry feed (particularly laying hen feed). However, there are also numerous plants outside of the Netherlands located in other European countries namely in Belgium, Germany, France, Spain, Romania, Hungary, Poland, Serbia, Ukraine, Brazil, Uruguay and, in addition, some plants operate even in China.\n\nDue to Winkel BV and the participation in Agri Retail, Agrifirm has investments in approximately 60 Welkoop Stores selling agricultural products.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5261864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5261864", "title": "Alpert", "text": "Alpert\n\nAlpert is a variation of the Jewish surname Heilprin, and may refer to:\n\nAlpert as a fictional character may refer to: \n\nAlpert may also refer to: \n\n"}
{"id": "58244981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58244981", "title": "Amardus", "text": "Amardus\n\nAmardus or Mardus () was a river of Media, mentioned by Ammianus Marcellinus in his confused description of the Persian provinces and by Ptolemy places it in Media, and if we take his numbers as correct, its source is in the Zagrus. The river flows north, and enters the southern coast of the Caspian. William Smith equates the river to the modern Sefīd-Rūd river. As Ptolemy places the Amardi round the south coast of the Caspian and extending into the interior, we may suppose that they were once at least situated on and about this river.\n"}
{"id": "18974555", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18974555", "title": "Ağbulaq, Khojavend", "text": "Ağbulaq, Khojavend\n\nAğbulaq (also spelled Agbulak, Agbulag, Aghboulagh, ) is a village in the Khojavend Rayon of Azerbaijan. Since the Nagorno-Karabakh war the town has been administered by the de facto Republic of Artsakh as part of Hadrut Province.\n"}
{"id": "18706556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18706556", "title": "Central Indo-Pacific", "text": "Central Indo-Pacific\n\nThe Central Indo-Pacific is a biogeographic region of the Earth's seas, comprising the tropical waters of the western Pacific Ocean, the eastern Indian Ocean, and the connecting seas.\n\nThe Central Indo-Pacific is part of the larger Indo-Pacific, which includes the tropical Indian Ocean, the western and central tropical Pacific Ocean, and the seas connecting the two in the general area of Indonesia. The Central Indo-Pacific may be classified as a marine realm, one of the great biogeographic divisions of the world's ocean basins, or as a subrealm of the Indo-Pacific.\n\nThe Central Indo-Pacific realm covers eastern shores of the tropical Indian Ocean, including most of the Indian Ocean coast of the Indonesian archipelago, the northern Australian coast, and the Cocos and Christmas islands. It extends through the tropical seas connecting the Pacific and Indian Oceans, including the Java Sea in central Indonesia, the South China Sea between the Asian land mass and the Philippine and Malay archipelagos, and the Arafura Sea separating Australia and New Guinea. It includes the seas surrounding island groups of the western Pacific, including the Ryukyu Islands, Caroline Islands, Marianas Islands, New Guinea and the Bismarck Archipelago, Solomon Islands, Vanuatu, New Caledonia, Fiji, Tonga, and Lord Howe Island.\n\nIt is bounded on the west by the Western Indo-Pacific, with the transition at the Strait of Malacca and in southern Sumatra. The Central Indo-Pacific includes the seas surrounding the northern half of Australia, while the Temperate Australasia marine realm includes the seas surrounding the southern half of Australia. The boundaries between those two marine realms lie in Western Australia and southern Queensland. The Eastern Indo-Pacific lies to the east, extending across most of tropical Polynesia. To the north, the Taiwan Strait forms the boundary with the Temperate Northern Pacific, which also includes the larger Japanese islands.\n\nThe Central Indo-Pacific has the greatest diversity of tropical corals in the world, and includes the largest and second-largest coral formations in the world, Australia's Great Barrier Reef and the New Caledonia Barrier Reef.\n\nThe Central Indo-Pacific is further subdivided into marine provinces, and the marine provinces divided into marine ecoregions:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31622634", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31622634", "title": "Charles Richard Harington", "text": "Charles Richard Harington\n\nCharles Richard Harington is a Canadian zoologist born in Calgary in May 1933.\n\nAfter working for geophysical companies in Alberta, and for the Arctic Institute of North America in Ottawa, he spent a year on northern Ellesmere Island during the International Geophysical Year, 1957–58, and came full circle in the summer of 2008 by carrying out field work on Ellesmere Island during the International Polar Year. From 1960-65, he worked as a Canadian Wildlife Service biologist, specializing in polar bear and muskox research.\n\nIn 1965, he was appointed Curator of Quaternary Zoology with the National Museums of Canada and was Chief of the Paleobiology Division (1982–91). He carried out detailed studies of the ice age animals of the Yukon, concentrating his work on the unglaciated country near Dawson and Old Crow; and on Pliocene vertebrates and environments of Ellesmere Island where he spent 10 field seasons between 1992 and 2008 leading a team collecting fossils from a unique 4-million-year-old vertebrate site (the Beaver Pond site) near the head of Strathcona Fiord. His interests include: the ice age vertebrates of Canada, Alaska and Greenland; the evolution and distribution of arctic and alpine mammals; and climatic change in Canada during the ice age. He has written or contributed over 300 scientific papers, publications and reports.\n"}
{"id": "5297982", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5297982", "title": "Charlestown-Bellahy", "text": "Charlestown-Bellahy\n\nCharlestown-Bellahy () is a census town split between County Mayo and County Sligo in Ireland. It comprises the adjoining villages of Charlestown, County Mayo, and Bellahy, County Sligo, had a population of 753 at the 2002 census.\n"}
{"id": "353110", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=353110", "title": "Chittagong Hill Tracts", "text": "Chittagong Hill Tracts\n\nThe Chittagong Hill Tracts (CHT; Bengali: পার্বত্য চট্টগ্রাম, \"Parbotto Choŧŧogram\"; or the Hill Tracts for short) are an area within the Chattogram Division in southeastern Bangladesh, bordering India and Myanmar (Burma).\nCovering , they formed a single district until 1984, when they were divided into three districts: Khagrachari District, Rangamati Hill District, and Bandarban District. Topographically, the Hill Tracts are the only extensively hilly area in Bangladesh. It was historically settled by many tribal refugees from Burma Arakan in 16th century and now it is settled by indigenous peoples who have been living there since.\n\nThe Chittagong Hill Tracts along with Ladakh, Sikkim, Tawang, Darjeeling, Bhutan and Sri Lanka, constitute the few remaining abodes of Buddhism in South Asia.\n\nHill Tracts (CHT) the only extensive hilly area in Bangladesh lies in southeastern part of the country (210 25' N to 230 45' N latitude and 910 54' E to 920 50' E longitude) bordering Myanmar on the southeast, the Indian state of Tripura on the north, Mizoram on the east and Chittagong district on the west. The area of the Chittagong Hill Tracts is about 13,184 km, which is approximately one-tenth of the total area of Bangladesh. The Chittagong Hill Tracts, combining three hilly districts of Bangladesh: Rangamati, Khagrachhari and Bandarban districts.\nThe mountainous rugged terrain with deep forests, lakes and falls gives it a divergent character from the rest of Bangladesh.\n\nAccording to the census of 1991, the population was 974,447, of which 501,114 were tribal peoples and the rest were from Bengali (Muslim and Hindu) community. The tribal populations include the Chakma, Marma, Tripura, Tanchangya, indigenous Assamese, Keot (Kaibarta), Chak, Pankho, Mro, Murang, Bom, Lushei, Khyang, and Khumi, and differ markedly from the Bengali majority of Bangladesh with respect to language, culture, physical appearance, religion, dress and farming methods.\n\nThe population of the three districts (\"zilas\") totalled 1,587,000 in the provisional returns of the census of 2011, make population density rough 120 per km. About 34% of the population are tribal peoples and mainly followers of Theravada Buddhism; 65% of the inhabitants are Bengalis (Muslims and Hindus); and 1% Christians or animists.\n\nThe early history of the Chittagong Hill Tracts, a record of constantly recurring raids by the eastern hill tribes and of the operations undertaken to repress them, of which narrative will be found in the article on the Lushai Hills (Eastern Chakma kingdom).In the early 16th century the chakma people came from Arakan(Burma) due to repression and hostility by Rakhaine people. The Chakma are the single largest tribe, comprising half of the tribal population. The Marma people are the second largest tribe. They came from Burma when Arakan was conquered by Burmese king Bodawpaya. The tribal peoples emigrated from Burma due to repression by the Burmese king settled in the hill tracts with the consent of subedar of bengal who is the representative of Mughal emperor. The Bengali people lived in chittagong hill tracts from the later period of British rule. The Bengali People comprised majority of the population of Chittagong Hill Tracts. \n\nMughal and early British records name the region \"Jum Bungoo\", \"Jum mahal\" or \"Kapas mahal\". In 1787, the East India Company made the region its tributary after battling tribal leaders.\n\nThe use of the name \"Chittagong\" for this area dates to the 1860 British annexation of the region, bringing it under direct control of British India. Situated beyond the inland hills, Chittagong proper is a coastal area in the plains where the British were based. As colonial influence grew, \"Chittagong\" enlarged as well, expanding eastwards to subsume the Hill Tracts under its revenue-collection territory.\n\nThe recorded population increased from 69,607 in 1872 to 101,597 in 1881, to 107,286 in 1891, and to 124,762 in 1901. The census of 1872 was, however, very imperfect, and the actual growth of population has probably not exceeded what might be expected in a sparsely inhabited but fairly healthy tract.\n\nWhen the 1901 census was taken there were no towns, and 211 of the villages had populations of less than 500 apiece; only one exceeded 2,000. The population density, excluding the area of uninhabited forest (1,385 square miles), was 33 persons per square mile. There was a little immigration from Chittagong, and a few persons had emigrated to Tripura. The proportion of females to every 100 males was only 90 in the district-born, and 83 in the total population. Buddhists numbered 83,000, Hindus 36,000, and Muslims 5,000.\n\nThe Chittagong Hill Tracts, combining three hilly districts of Bangladesh, were once known as Korpos Mohol, the name used until 1860. In 1860 it was annexed by the British and was made an administrative district of Bengal. Administratively, the Chittagong Hill Tracts were divided into three circles, namely the Chakma Circle, the Bohmong Circle, and the Mong Circle, each presided over by a hereditary chief from the Chakma and Marma peoples. As of today, it is a semi-autonomous region within Bangladesh comprising the districts of Chengmi (Khagrachari District), Gongkabor (Rangamati Hill District), and Arvumi (Bandarban District). \n\nThe last viceroy, Louis Mountbatten, 1st Earl Mountbatten of Burma, who considered the grant of independence to India as his act of crowning glory, was ambitious to achieve this \"superhuman\" task in record time. He said that before accepting the post of viceroy, he had told George VI, who was his cousin: \"I am prepared to accept the job only on one condition. India must be granted independence by July, 1948 and I will not stay there a day longer\". Mountbatten came to India in March 1947 and this left him just about sixteen months to complete such a gigantic task. In reality, he achieved it in five months, on 15 August 1947, for which he was given much credit.\n\nOriginally, the award of the Boundary Commission was to be made public on 13 August. But Mountbatten was reluctant to make this public. According to Philip Ziegler, the author of Mountbatten's official biography, the case of the Chittagong Hill Tracts was uppermost in Mountbatten's mind. Mountbatten \"foresaw an Independence Day marred by rancour, Nehru boycotting the ceremonies, India born in an atmosphere not of euphoria but of angry resentment.\" So Mountbatten decided to announce the award only on 16 August when the celebrations were over. As Zeigler writes, \"India's indignation at the award of the Chittagong Hill Tracts to Pakistan may have been a factor in making up Mountbatten's mind to keep the reports to himself till after independence\".\n\nMountbatten was himself surprised by the ferocity of Vallabhbhai Patel's reaction to the issue. In his memoirs he wrote, \"The one man I had regarded as a real statesman with both his feet firmly on the ground, and a man of honour whose word was his bond, had turned out to be as hysterical as the rest. Candidly I was amazed that such a terrific crisis should have blown up over so small a matter. However, I have been long enough in India to realise that major crises are by no means confined to big matters.\" Leonard Mosley in his book \"The Last Days of the British Raj\" puts it as \"a matter for Mountbatten's conscience\".\n\nThe conflict in the Chittagong Hill Tracts dates back to when Bangladesh was the eastern wing of Pakistan. Widespread resentment occurred over the displacement of as many as 100,000 of the native peoples due to the construction of the Kaptai Dam in 1962. The displaced did not receive compensation from the government and many thousands fled to India. Sheikh Mujib was reported to have threatened to forcibly settle Muslim Bengalis in the Hill Tracts to reduce the native Buddhist and Hindu peoples into a minority because of asking the autonomy by tribal leaders.\n\nDuring the 1970s and 80s under Ziaur Rahman, the government of Bangladesh started to settle the area with Bengali people, displacing the local inhabitants who had lived there for centuries and threatening their way of life. These attempts were resisted by the hill tribes, who, with the latent support of neighbouring India, formed a guerrilla force called Shanti Bahini. As a result of the tribal resistance movement, successive governments turned the Hill Tracts into a militarised zone.\n\nFollowing years of unrest, an agreement was formed between the government of Bangladesh and the tribal leaders which granted a limited level of autonomy to the elected council of the three hill districts.\n\nThe 1997 Chittagong Hill Tracts Peace Accord signed between the then Sheikh Hasina government and the Parbatya Chattagram Jana Samhati Samiti (party of the tribal peoples) has been opposed by the opposition parties as well as a fraction of the tribal rebels. Opposition parties argued that the autonomy granted in the treaty ignored the Bengali community. The successive Khaleda Zia government promised to implement the peace treaty, despite their opposition to it during the previous government's term. According to the Ministry of Chittagong Hill Tracts Affairs, a peace treaty between the Government of Bangladesh and Parbattya Chattagram Jana Samhati Samiti was signed on 2 December 1997.\n\nTobacco cultivation is damaging the ecology of the area, with loss of indigenous trees such as \"Chukrasia tabularis\" (Indian mahogany), and soil fertility. Many of the farmers of Rangamati, Bandarban and Khagrachhari districts of Bangladesh have been losing their interests in cultivating indigenous crops like paddy, banana, maize, sesame, cotton, potato, pumpkin etc. as they became defaulters of loans provided by tobacco companies, they said.\n\nLike other mountainous areas in South and Southeast Asia, the Chittagong Hill Tracts are undergoing deforestation and land degradation arising from environmentally unsuitable activities such as tobacco cultivation in sloping land, shifting cultivation and logging. Shifting cultivation, also known as slash-and-burn agriculture or swidden cultivation, embraces a large variety of primitive forms of agriculture. It is a special stage in the evolution from hunting and food gathering to sedentary farming. Mankind began to change its mode of life from food gatherer to food producer about 7000 B.C. by adopting shifting cultivation. Some form of shifting cultivation has been practised in most parts of the world, but more intensive forms of agriculture have subsequently replaced it.\nThe present shifting cultivation system with short fallow in the Chittagong Hill Tracts has accelerated erosion, land degradation, deforestation, and impoverishment of tribal people in CHT. If the present state of degradation is continued, most of the areas under shifting cultivation will be severely degraded and the future generations will face more difficulties to eke out their livelihoods on further degraded land. Although there is some scope for shifting cultivators to leave the degraded fields and move to other areas. It is estimated that on average eight hectares of land is necessary for the sustenance of a family in the Chittagong Hill Tracts. If this ratio is adopted, 1,240,000 ha land is required to sustain the present population; however, the total land available, excluding the reserve forest, is 928,000 ha. Shifting cultivation, therefore, cannot fulfill even the subsistence requirements of the people. In such a situation, either large non-farm employment opportunities need to be created or more productive land-use systems need to be developed and adopted. Given the sluggish growth of the economy, there is limited scope for generating adequate non-farming employment opportunities in the near future. It is, therefore, imperative to replace the present shifting cultivation system with more productive and sustainable land use systems to enable people to secure their livelihoods.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22112839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22112839", "title": "Collier Hills", "text": "Collier Hills\n\nCollier Hills is a residential neighborhood in Atlanta, Georgia. The area gets its name from the family whose homestead was broadly located in the southwest corner of the intersection of Peachtree St. and Collier Rd. Andrew Jackson Collier, a member of this family and early pioneer of the area, operated an antebellum grist mill off Tanyard Creek, near Collier Rd.\n"}
{"id": "33467167", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33467167", "title": "Daylight saving time in the Philippines", "text": "Daylight saving time in the Philippines\n\nThe Philippines currently does not observe daylight saving time, although it was enforced for short periods during the presidency of Manuel L. Quezon in 1936-1937, Ramon Magsaysay in 1954, Ferdinand Marcos in 1978, and Corazon Aquino in 1990.\n\nDST was primarily intended to alleviate the energy crisis by minimizing the number of hours in which electric lighting was needed, reducing the strain on the national power grid. As power generation and transmission capacities improved, the practice was abandoned.\n\nIn April 2006, the Department of Trade and Industry again proposed that DST be re-implemented to help deal with rising oil prices.\n\nIn August 2014, President Benigno Aquino III was urged by LPGMA Partylist Representative Arnel Ty to observe DST from November 2014 to January 2015 and March to June 2015 to prepare for the power crisis in the country but the President did not implement the DST.\n\n"}
{"id": "2677390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2677390", "title": "Drachenfels (Siebengebirge)", "text": "Drachenfels (Siebengebirge)\n\nThe Drachenfels (\"Dragon's Rock\", ) is a hill () in the Siebengebirge uplands between Königswinter and Bad Honnef in Germany. The hill was formed by rising magma that could not break through to the surface, and then cooled and became solid underneath. It is the subject of much tourism and romanticism in the North Rhine-Westphalia area.\nThe ruined castle Burg Drachenfels, on the summit of the hill, was built between 1138 and 1167 by Archbishop Arnold I of Cologne and bears the same name. It was originally intended for the protection of the Cologne region from any assault from the south. Originally it consisted of a \"bergfried\" with court, chapel and living quarters for servants. The castle was slighted in 1634, during the Thirty Years' War, by the Protestant Swedes and never rebuilt. As a strategic asset it had outlived its usefulness. Erosion due to the continued quarrying undermined much of the remains and only a small part is left today.\n\nThe rock, like the rest of the Siebengebirge, is formed by the remnants of a volcano and has been the site of a trachyte quarry since Roman times, which, amongst others, delivered the building material for the Cologne Cathedral. Of all the hills in the Siebengebirge, it is closest to the river Rhine, which facilitates easy transport by barges, thus making it an excellent place for a quarry. Quarrying ended in 1836, when the Prussian government bought the quarry. In 1922 the first protection measures were put in place and in 1956 the site was declared a national park.\n\nThe rock and the ruins gained popularity in the romantic era, after the Napoleonic Wars had ended. The visit of Lord Byron to and its appearance in Childe Harold's Pilgrimage provided the rock with international attention. It soon became a highlight of the so-called Rhine romanticism. Poems were composed by people like Edward Bulwer-Lytton and locally by Heinrich Heine. Thus popularized, and, since 1883, accessible by rail it evolved into a tourist attraction, which it still is.\n\nA neogothic castle, lower on the hill, is named Schloss Drachenburg and was built in 1882 by Baron . Both the top and Schloss Drachenburg can be reached by the \"Drachenfelsbahn\", a rack railway built in the 19th century to satisfy demand from growing tourism. The Drachenfels is sometimes irreverently called \"Schwiegermutterfelsen\" (mother-in-law rock) or jokingly referred to as \"the highest hill in Holland\" because of its popularity among Dutch tourists. It is the first substantial elevation one encounters when traveling upstream on the Rhine from the Netherlands.\n\nIn the 1970s a new restaurant (with view) was built on top of the hill in the then popular brutalistic style. In January 2011 work began to demolish it, renovate the buildings from the 1930s and replace the restaurant with a glass cube. The project is expected to be finished in the summer of 2012.\n\nSeveral legends surround the Drachenfels, most famously that Siegfried – the hero of the Nibelungenlied – killed the dragon Fafnir, who lived in a cave in the hill, then bathed in its blood to become invulnerable. Hence, the hill is named the \"Dragon's Rock\", \"Drachenfels\".\n\nAbout a third of the way up is the Nibelungenhalle, built in 1913, a gallery of paintings by the symbolist painter Hermann Hendrich depicting scenes from Richard Wagner's operas.\n\nAnother legend tells of prisoners being sacrificed to a dragon. One of these was a Christian virgin, who, in her fear, held up a little cross. In fear of this holy symbol, the dragon jumped into the Rhine and was never heard from again.\n\nA third, less pious, story has it the dragon one day attacked a boat laden with gunpowder, causing an explosion which destroyed the ship and killed the dragon.\n\nNext to Oberdollendorf, some 10 km downstream the Drachenfels is the most northerly slope used for viticulture along the Rhine. Riesling dominates, but in smaller quantities also Gewürztraminer, Scheurebe, Dornfelder, Kerner, \"Grau-\", \"Weiss-\" and \"Spätburgunder\" are cultivated. The slopes are maintained and harvested by hand, since they are too steep for machinery.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "167506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=167506", "title": "Echo sounding", "text": "Echo sounding\n\nEcho sounding is a type of sonar used to determine the depth of water by transmitting sound waves into water. The time interval between emission and return of a pulse is recorded, which is used to determine the depth of water along with the speed of sound in water at the time. This information is then typically used for navigation purposes or in order to obtain depths for charting purposes. Echo sounding can also refer to hydroacoustic \"echo sounders\" defined as active sound in water (sonar) used to study fish. Hydroacoustic assessments have traditionally employed mobile surveys from boats to evaluate fish biomass and spatial distributions. Conversely, fixed-location techniques use stationary transducers to monitor passing fish.\n\nThe word \"sounding\" is used for all types of depth measurements, including those that don't use sound, and is unrelated in origin to the word \"sound\" in the sense of noise or tones. Echo sounding is a more rapid method of measuring depth than the previous technique of lowering a sounding line until it touched bottom.\n\nDistance is measured by multiplying half the time from the signal's outgoing pulse to its return by the speed of sound in the water, which is approximately 1.5 kilometres per second [T÷2×(4700 feet per second or 1.5 kil per second )] For precise applications of echosounding, such as hydrography, the speed of sound must also be measured typically by deploying a sound velocity probe into the water. Echo sounding is effectively a special purpose application of sonar used to locate the bottom. Since a traditional pre-SI unit of water depth was the fathom, an instrument used for determining water depth is sometimes called a \"fathometer\".\nThe first practical fathometer was invented by Herbert Grove Dorsey and patented in 1928.\n\nMost charted ocean depths use an average or standard sound speed. Where greater accuracy is required average and even seasonal standards may be applied to ocean regions. For high accuracy depths, usually restricted to special purpose or scientific surveys, a sensor may be lowered to measure the temperature, pressure and salinity. These factors are used to calculate the actual sound speed in the local water column. This latter technique is regularly used by US Office of Coast Survey for navigational surveys of US coastal waters. See NOAA Field Procedures Manual, Office of Coast Survey website (http://www.nauticalcharts.noaa.gov/hsd/fpm/fpm.htm).\n\nAs well as an aid to navigation (most larger vessels will have at least a simple depth sounder), echo sounding is commonly used for fishing. Variations in elevation often represent places where fish congregate. Schools of fish will also register. A fishfinder is an echo sounding device used by both recreational and commercial fishers. \n\nIn areas where detailed bathymetry is required, a precise echo sounder may be used for the work of hydrography. There are many considerations when evaluating such a system, not limited to the vertical accuracy, resolution, acoustic beamwidth of the transmit/receive beam and the acoustic frequency of the transducer. \n\nThe majority of hydrographic echosounders are dual frequency, meaning that a low frequency pulse (typically around 24 kHz) can be transmitted at the same time as a high frequency pulse (typically around 200 kHz). As the two frequencies are discrete, the two return signals do not typically interfere with each other. There are many advantages of dual frequency echosounding, including the ability to identify a vegetation layer or a layer of soft mud on top of a layer of rock. \n\nMost hydrographic operations use a 200 kHz transducer, which is suitable for inshore work up to 100 metres in depth. Deeper water requires a lower frequency transducer as the acoustic signal of lower frequencies is less susceptible to attenuation in the water column. Commonly used frequencies for deep water sounding are 33 kHz and 24 kHz. \n\nThe beamwidth of the transducer is also a consideration for the hydrographer, as to obtain the best resolution of the data gathered a narrow beamwidth is preferable. This is especially important when sounding in deep water, as the resulting footprint of the acoustic pulse can be very large once it reaches a distant sea floor. \n\nIn addition to the single beam echo sounder, there are echo sounders that are capable of receiving many return \"pings\". These systems are detailed further in the section called multibeam echosounder.\n\nEcho sounders are used in laboratory applications to monitor sediment transport, scour and erosion processes in scale models (hydraulic models, flumes etc.). These can also be used to create plots of 3D contours.\n\nThe required precision and accuracy of the hydrographic echo sounder is defined by the requirements of the International Hydrographic Organization (IHO) for surveys that are to be undertaken to IHO standards. These values are contained within IHO publication S44. \n\nIn order to meet these standards, the surveyor must consider not only the vertical and horizontal accuracy of the echo sounder and transducer, but the survey system as a whole. A motion sensor may be used, specifically the heave component (in single beam echosounding) to reduce soundings for the motion of the vessel experienced on the water's surface. Once all of the uncertainties of each sensor are established, the hydrographer will create an uncertainty budget to determine whether the survey system meets the requirements laid down by IHO.\n\nDifferent hydrographic organisations will have their own set of field procedures and manuals to guide their surveyors to meet the required standards. Two examples are the US Army Corps of Engineers publication EM110-2-1003, and the NOAA 'Field Procedures Manual'.\n\nGerman inventor Alexander Behm was granted German patent No. 282009 for the invention of echo sounding \"(device for measuring depths of the sea and distances and headings of ships or obstacles by means of reflected sound waves)\" on 22 July 1913.\n\nOne of the first commercial echo sounding units was the Fessenden Fathometer, which used the Fessenden oscillator to generate sound waves. This was first installed by the Submarine Signal Company in 1924 on the M&M liner S.S. Berkshire.\n\n"}
{"id": "9390696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9390696", "title": "Five themes of geography", "text": "Five themes of geography\n\nFive Themes of Geography is an educational tool for teaching geography. Adopted in 1984 by the Association of American Geographers, those five themes were published in the NCGE/AAG publication \"Guidelines for Geographic Education, Elementary, and Secondary Schools\". Most American geography and social studies classrooms have adopted the five themes in teaching practices.\n\nThe five-theme organizational approach was superseded by the Geography for Life standards published by the National Geographic Society United States Of America, a set of eighteen standards promulgated in 1994. However, the five themes continue to be used as an educational approach in many educational outlets.\n\nFive Themes:\n\n\nEvery point on Earth has a location. Location can be described in two different ways:\n\nA place is an area that is defined by everything in it. All places have features that give them personality and distinguish them from other places\n\n\nThis theme describes how people interact with the environment, and how the environment responds, with three key concepts:\n\n\nMovement is the travel of people, goods, and ideas from one location to another, or political events. Examples of movement include the United States' westward expansion, the Information Revolution, and immigration. New devices such as the airplane and the Internet allow physical and ideological goods to be transferred long distances in short time intervals. A person's travel from place to place, and the actions they perform there are also considered movement.\nExample: Buses, Airplanes, Cars, and Boats.\n\nRegions are areas with distinctive characteristics: human characteristics, such as demographics or politics, and physical characteristics, such as climate and vegetation. For example, the US is a political region because it shares one governmental system.\n"}
{"id": "925631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=925631", "title": "Garden design", "text": "Garden design\n\nGarden design is the art and process of designing and creating plans for layout and planting of gardens and landscapes. Garden design may be done by the garden owner themselves, or by professionals of varying levels of experience and expertise. Most professional garden designers have some training in horticulture and the principles of design. Garden designer, Rev David Coles, further elaborated this definition at the Chelsea Flower Show (2018, BBC1, Chelsea) by stating that good garden design, while being on the one hand a “serious discipline” should embody a “playful creative mindfulness”. He postulates that successful garden designs enable transcendence from a physical sensory experience to a mindful awareness of being interconnected with nature. \nSome are also landscape architects, a more formal level of training that usually requires an advanced degree and often a state license. Amateur gardeners may also attain a high level of experience from extensive hours working in their own gardens, through casual study, serious study in Master Gardener Programs, or by joining gardening clubs.\n\nWhether gardens are designed by a professional or an amateur, certain principles form the basis of effective garden design, resulting in the creation of gardens to meet the needs, goals, and desires of the users or owners of the gardens.\n\nElements of garden design include the layout of hard landscape, such as paths, walls, water features, sitting areas and decking; as well as the plants themselves, with consideration for their horticultural requirements, their season-to-season appearance, lifespan, growth habit, size, speed of growth, and combinations with other plants and landscape features. Consideration is also given to the maintenance needs of the garden, including the time or funds available for regular maintenance, which can affect the choice of plants in terms of speed of growth, spreading or self-seeding of the plants, whether annual or perennial, and bloom-time, and many other characteristics.\n\nImportant considerations in the garden design include how the garden will be used, the desired stylistic genre (formal or informal, modern or traditional etc.), and the way the garden space will connect to the home or other structures in the surrounding areas. All of these considerations are subject to the limitations of the prescribed budget.\n\nA garden's location can have a substantial influence on its design. Topographical landscape features such as steep slopes, vistas, hills, and outcrops may suggest or determine aspects of design such as layout and can be used and augmented in order to create a particular impression. The soils of the site will affect what types of plant may be grown, as will the garden's climate zone and various microclimates. The locational context of the garden can also influence its design. For example, an urban setting may require a different design style In contrast to a rural one. Similarly, a windy coastal location may necessitate a different treatment compared to a sheltered inland site.\n\nThe quality of a garden's soil can have a significant influence on a garden's design and its subsequent success. Soil influences the availability of water and nutrients, the activity of soil micro-organisms, and temperature within the root zone, and thus may have a determining effect on the types of plants which will grow successfully in the garden. However, soils may be replaced or improved in order to make them more suitable.\n\nTraditionally, garden soil is improved by amendment, the process of adding beneficial materials to the native subsoil and particularly the topsoil. The added materials, which may consist of compost, peat, sand, mineral dust, or manure, among others, are mixed with the soil to the preferred depth. The amount and type of amendment may depend on many factors, including the amount of existing soil humus, the soil structure (clay, silt, sand, loam etc.), the soil acidity/alkalinity, and the choice of plants to be grown. One source states that, \"conditioning the soil thoroughly before planting enables the plants to establish themselves quickly and so play their part in the design.\" However, not all gardens are, or should be, amended in this manner, since many plants prefer an impoverished soil. In this case, poor soil is better than a rich soil that has been artificially enriched.\n\nThe design of a garden can be affected by the nature of its boundaries, both external and internal, and in turn the design can influence the boundaries, including via creation of new ones. Planting can be used to modify an existing boundary line by softening or widening it. Introducing internal boundaries can help divide or break up a garden into smaller areas.\n\nThe main types of boundary within a garden are hedges, walls and fences. A hedge may be evergreen or deciduous, formal or informal, short or tall, depending on the style of the garden and purpose of the boundary. A wall has a strong foundation beneath it at all points, and is usually - but not always - built from brick, stone or concrete blocks. A fence differs from a wall in that it is anchored only at intervals, and is usually constructed using wood or metal (such as iron or wire mesh).\n\nBoundaries may be constructed for several reasons: to keep out livestock or intruders, to provide privacy, to create shelter from strong winds and provide microclimates, to screen unattractive structures or views, and to create an element of surprise.\n\nIn temperate western gardens, a smooth expanse of lawn is often considered essential to a garden. However garden designers may use other surfaces, for example those \"made up of loose gravel, small pebbles, or wood chips\" in order to create a different appearance and feel. Designers may also utilise the contrast in texture and color between different surfaces in order to create an overall pattern in the design.\n\nSurfaces for paths and access points are chosen for practical as well as aesthetic reasons. Issues such as safety, maintenance and durability may need to be considered by the designer. Gardens designed for public access need to cope with heavier foot traffic and hence may utilise surfaces – such as resin-bonded gravel – that are rarely used in private gardens.\n\nPlanting design requires design talent and aesthetic judgement combined with a good level of horticultural, ecological and cultural knowledge. It includes two major traditions: formal rectilinear planting design (Persia and Europe); and formal asymmetrical (Asia) and naturalistic planting design.\n\nPersian gardens are credited with originating aesthetic and diverse planting design. A correct Persian garden will be divided into four sectors with water being very important for both irrigation and aesthetics. The four sectors symbolize the Zoroastrian elements of sky, earth, water and plants. Planting in ancient and Medieval European gardens was often a mix of herbs for medicinal use, vegetables for consumption, and flowers for decoration. Purely aesthetic planting layouts developed after the Medieval period in , as are shown in late-renaissance paintings and plans. The designs of the Italian Renaissance garden were geometrical and plants were used to form spaces and patterns. The gardens of the French Renaissance and Baroque Garden à la française era continued the 'formal garden' planting aesthetic.\n\nIn Asia the asymmetrical traditions of planting design in Chinese gardens and Japanese gardens originated in the Jin Dynasty (265–420) of China. The gardens' plantings have a controlled but naturalistic aesthetic. In Europe the arrangement of plants in informal groups developed as part of the English Landscape Garden style, and subsequently the French landscape garden, and was strongly influenced by the picturesque art movement.\n\nA planting plan gives specific instructions, often for a contractor about how the soil is to be prepared, what species are to be planted, what size and spacing is to be used and what maintenance operations are to be carried out under the contract. Owners of private gardens may also use planting plans, not for contractual purposes, as an aid to thinking about a design and as a record of what has been planted. A planting strategy is a long term strategy for the design, establishment and management of different types of vegetation in a landscape or garden.\n\nPlanting can be established by directly employed gardeners and horticulturalists or it can be established by a landscape contractor (also known as a landscape gardener). Landscape contractors work to drawings and specifications prepared by garden designers or landscape architects.\n\nGarden furniture may range from a \"patio set\" consisting of a table, four or six chairs and a parasol, through benches, swings, various lighting, to stunning artifacts in brutal concrete or weathered oak. Patio heaters, that run on bottled butane or propane, are often used to enable people to sit outside at night or in cold weather. A picnic table, is used for the purpose of eating a meal outdoors such as in a garden.\n\nThe materials used to manufacture modern patio furniture include stones, metals, vinyl, plastics, resins, glass, and treated woods.\n\nWhile sunlight is not always easily controlled by the gardener, it is an important element of garden design. The amount of available light is a critical factor in determining what plants may be grown. Sunlight will, therefore, have a substantial influence on the character of the garden. For example, a rose garden is generally not successful in full shade, while a garden of hostas may not thrive in hot sun. As another example, a vegetable garden may need to be placed in a sunny location, and if that location is not ideal for the overall garden design goals, the designer may need to change other aspects of the garden.\n\nIn some cases, the amount of available sunlight can be influenced by the gardener. The location of trees, other shade plants, garden structures, or, when designing an entire property, even buildings, might be selected or changed based on their influence in increasing or reducing the amount of sunlight provided to various areas of the property.\n\nIn other cases, the amount of sunlight is not under the gardener's control. Nearby buildings, plants on other properties, or simply the climate of the local area, may limit the available sunlight. Or, substantial changes in the light conditions of the garden may not be within the gardener's means. In this case, it is important to plan a garden that is compatible with the existing light conditions.\n\nGarden lighting can be an important aspect of garden design. In most cases, various types of lighting techniques may be classified and defined by heights: safety lighting, uplighting, and downlighting. Safety lighting is the most practical application. However, it is more important to determine the type of lamps and fittings needed to create the desired effects. Light regulates three major plant processes: photosynthesis, phototropism, and photoperiodism.\n\nPhotosynthesis provides the energy required to produce the energy source of plants.\n\nPhototropism is the effect of light on plant growth that causes the plant to grow toward or away from the light. Photoperiodism is a plant’s response or capacity to respond to photoperiod, a recurring cycle of light and dark periods of constant length.\n\nGarden design, and the Islamic garden tradition, began with creating the Paradise garden in Ancient Persia, in Western Asia. It evolved over the centuries, and in the different cultures Islamic dynasties came to rule in Central— South Asia, the Near East, North Africa, and the Iberian Peninsula.\n\nSome styles and examples include:\n\nGarden design history and precedents from the Mediterranean region include:\n\nA formal garden in the Persian garden and European garden design traditions is rectilinear and axial in design. The equally formal garden, without axial symmetry (asymmetrical) or other geometries, is the garden design tradition of Chinese gardens and Japanese gardens. The Zen garden of rocks, moss and raked gravel is an example. The Western model is an ordered garden laid out in carefully planned geometric and often symmetrical lines. Lawns and hedges in a formal garden need to be kept neatly clipped for maximum effect. Trees, shrubs, subshrubs and other foliage are carefully arranged, shaped and continually maintained. A French garden or Garden à la française, is a specific kind of formal garden, laid out in the manner of André Le Nôtre; it is centered on the façade of a building, with radiating avenues and paths of gravel, lawns, parterres and pools (\"bassins\") of reflective water enclosed in geometric shapes by stone coping, with fountains and sculpture.\n\nThe Garden à la française style has origins in fifteenth-century Italian Renaissance gardens, such as the Villa d'Este, Boboli Gardens, and Villa Lante in Italy. The style was brought to France and expressed in the gardens of the French Renaissance. Some of the earliest formal parterres of clipped evergreens were those laid out at Anet by Claude Mollet, the founder of a dynasty of nurserymen-designers that lasted deep into the 18th century. The Gardens of Versailles are an ultimate example of Garden à la française, composed of many different distinct gardens, and designed by André Le Nôtre.\n\nEnglish Renaissance gardens in a rectilinear formal design were a feature of the stately homes. The introduction of the parterre was at Wilton House in the 1630s. In the early eighteenth century, the publication of Dezallier d'Argenville, \" La théorie et la pratique du jardinage\" (1709) was translated into English and German, and was the central document for the later formal gardens of Continental Europe.\n\nTraditional formal Spanish garden design evolved with Persian garden and influences. The internationally renowned Alhambra and Generalife in Granada, built in the Moorish Al-Andalus era, have influenced design for centuries. The Ibero-American Exposition of 1929 World's Fair in Seville, Spain was located in the celebrated Maria Luisa Park (\"Parque de Maria Luisa\") designed by Jean-Claude Nicolas Forestier.\n\nFormal gardening in the Italian and French manners was reintroduced at the turn of the twentieth century. Beatrix Farrand's formal Italian garden areas at Dumbarton Oaks in Washington, D.C., and Achille Duchêne's restored French water parterre at Blenheim Palace in England are examples of the modern formal garden. The Conservatory Garden in Central Park of New York City features a formal garden, as do many other parks and estates such as Filoli in California.\n\nThe simplest formal garden would be a box-trimmed hedge lining or enclosing a carefully laid out flowerbed or garden bed of simple geometric shape, such as a knot garden. The more developed and elaborate formal gardens contain statuary and fountains.\nFeatures in a formal garden may include:\n\nThe English Landscape Garden style practically swept away the geometries of earlier English and European Renaissance formal gardens. William Kent and Lancelot \"Capability\" Brown were leading proponents, among many other designers. The naturalistic English Garden style (French:\" Jardin anglais\", Italian: \"Giardino all'inglese\", German: \"Englischer Landschaftsgarten\") of the 1730s and on transformed private and civic garden design across Europe. The French Landscape Garden subsequently continued the style's development on the Continent.\n\nA cottage garden uses an informal design, traditional materials, dense plantings, and a mixture of ornamental and edible plants. Cottage gardens go back many centuries, but their popularity grew in 1870s England in response to the more structured Victorian English estate gardens that used restrained designs with massed beds of brilliantly colored greenhouse annuals. They are more casual by design, depending on grace and charm rather than grandeur and formal structure. The influential British garden authors and designers, William Robinson at Gravetye Manor in Sussex, and Gertrude Jekyll at Munstead Wood in Surrey, both wrote and gardened in England. Jekyll's series of thematic gardening books emphasized the importance and value of natural plantings were an influence in Europe and the United States. Also influential half a century later was Margery Fish, whose surviving garden at East Lambrook Manor emphasizes, among other things, native plant life and the natural patterns produced by self-spreading and self-seeding.\n\nThe earliest cottage gardens were far more practical than modern versions—with an emphasis on vegetables and herbs, along with fruit trees, beehives, and even livestock if land allowed. Flowers were used to fill any spaces in between. Over time, flowers became more dominant. Modern day cottage gardens include countless regional and personal variations of the more traditional English cottage garden.\n\nThe traditional kitchen garden, also known as a potager, is a seasonally used space separate from the rest of the residential garden – the ornamental plants and lawn areas. Most vegetable gardens are still miniature versions of old family farm plots with square or rectangular beds, but the kitchen garden is different not only in its history, but also its design.\n\nThe kitchen garden may be a landscape feature that can be the central feature of an ornamental, all-season landscape, but can be little more than a humble vegetable plot. It is a source of herbs, vegetables, fruits, and flowers, but it is also a structured garden space, a design based on repetitive geometric patterns.\n\nThe kitchen garden has year-round visual appeal and can incorporate permanent perennials or woody plantings around (or among) the annual plants.\n\nA Shakespeare garden is a themed garden that cultivates plants mentioned in the works of William Shakespeare. In English-speaking countries, particularly the United States, these are often public gardens associated with parks, universities, and Shakespeare festivals. Shakespeare gardens are sites of cultural, educational, and romantic interest and can be locations for outdoor weddings.\n\nSigns near the plants usually provide relevant quotations. A Shakespeare garden usually includes several dozen species, either in herbaceous profusion or in a geometric layout with boxwood dividers. Typical amenities are walkways and benches and a weather-resistant bust of Shakespeare. Shakespeare gardens may accompany reproductions of Elizabethan architecture. Some Shakespeare gardens also grow species typical of the Elizabethan period but not mentioned in Shakespeare's plays or poetry.\n\nA rock garden, also known as a rockery or an alpine garden, is a type of garden that features extensive use of rocks or stones, along with plants native to rocky or alpine environments.\n\nRock garden plants tend to be small, both because many of the species are naturally small, and so as not to cover up the rocks. They may be grown in troughs (containers), or in the ground. The plants will usually be types that prefer well-drained soil and less water.\n\nThe usual form of a rock garden is a pile of rocks, large and small, aesthetically arranged, and with small gaps between, where the plants will be rooted. Some rock gardens incorporate bonsai.\n\nSome rock gardens are designed and built to look like natural outcrops of bedrock. Stones are aligned to suggest a bedding plane and plants are often used to conceal the joints between the stones. This type of rock garden was popular in Victorian times, often designed and built by professional landscape architects. The same approach is sometimes used in modern campus or commercial landscaping, but can also be applied in smaller private gardens.\n\nThe Japanese rock garden, in the west often referred to as \"Zen garden\", is a special kind of rock garden which contains few plants.\nRock gardens have become increasingly popular as landscape features in tropical countries such as Thailand. The combination of wet weather and heavy shade trees, along with the use of heavy plastic liners to stop unwanted plant growth, has made this type of arrangement ideal for both residential and commercial gardens due to its easier maintenance and drainage.\n\nNatural landscaping, also called native gardening, is the use of native plants, including trees, shrubs, groundcover, and grasses which are indigenous to the geographic area of the garden.\n\nNatural landscaping is adapted to the climate, geography and hydrology and should require no pesticides, fertilizers and watering to maintain, given that native plants have adapted and evolved to local conditions over thousands of years. However, these applications may be necessary for some preventive care of trees and other vegetation in areas of degraded or weedy landscapes.\n\nNative plants suit today's interest in \"low-maintenance\" gardening and landscaping, with many species vigorous and hardy and able to survive winter cold and summer heat. Once established, they can flourish without irrigation or fertilization, and are resistant to most pests and diseases.\n\nMany municipalities have quickly recognized the benefits of natural landscaping due to municipal budget constraints and reductions and the general public is now benefiting from the implementation of natural landscaping techniques to save water and create more personal time.\n\nNative plants provide suitable habitat for native species of butterflies, birds, pollinators, and other wildlife. They provide more variety in gardens by offering myriad alternatives to the often planted introduced species, cultivars, and invasive species. The indigenous plants have co-evolved with animals, fungi and microbes, to form a complex network of relationships. They are the foundation of their native habitats and ecosystems, or natural communities.\n\nSuch gardens often benefit from the plants being evolved and habituated to the local climate, pests and herbivores, and soil conditions, and so may require fewer to no soil amendments, irrigation, pesticides, and herbicides for a lower maintenance, more sustainable landscape.\n\nJapanese and Korean gardens, originally influenced by Chinese gardens, can be found at Buddhist temples and historic sites, private homes, in neighborhood or city parks, and at historical landmarks such as Buddhist temples. Some of the Japanese gardens most famous in the Western world and Japan are gardens in the \"karesansui\" (rock garden) tradition. The Ryōan-ji temple garden is a well-known example. There are Japanese gardens of various styles, with plantings and often evoking \"wabi sabi\" simplicity. In Japanese culture, garden-making is a high art, intimately linked to the arts of calligraphy and ink painting.\n\nThe contemporary style garden has gained popularity in the UK in the last 10 years. This is partly due to the increase of modern housing with small gardens as well as the cultural shift towards contemporary design . This style of garden can be defined by the use 'clean' design lines, with focus on hard landscaping materials like stone, hardwood, rendered walls. Planting style is bold but simple with the use of drifts of one or two plants that repeat throughout the design. Grasses are a very popular choice for this style of design. Lighting effects also play an integral role in the modern garden. Subtle lighting effects can be achieved with the use of carefully placed low voltage LED lights incorporated into paving and walls.\n\nA residential or private domestic garden, is the most common form of garden and is in proximity to a residence, such as the 'front garden' or 'back garden'. The front garden may be a formal and semi-public space and so subject to the constraints of convention and local laws. While typically found in the yard of the residence, a garden may also be established on a roof, in an atrium or courtyard, on a balcony, in windowboxes, or on a patio. Residential gardens are typically designed at human scale, as they are most often intended for private use. However, the garden of a great house or a large estate may be larger than a public park.\n\nResidential gardens may feature specialized gardens, such as those for exhibiting one particular type of plant, or special features, such as rockery or water features. They are also used for growing herbs and vegetables and are thus an important element of sustainability.\n\n"}
{"id": "4075340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4075340", "title": "GpsOne", "text": "GpsOne\n\ngpsOne is the brand name for a cellphone chipset manufactured by Qualcomm that allows cell phones to more accurately plot a user's position, using a technology referred to as A-GPS or Assisted-GPS. For differences between GPS and A-GPS methods, please see their respective articles.\n\n\nSome vendors are also looking at GPS phone technology as a method of implementing location-based solutions, such as:\n\n\ngpsOne can operate in four modes:\n\n\nSince introduction in 2000, the gpsOne chipset has been adopted by 40+ vendors, and is used in more than 250 cellphone models worldwide.\n\nMore than 300 million gpsOne enabled handsets are currently on the market, making it one of the most widely deployed solutions.\n\nProduct website\n"}
{"id": "24675130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24675130", "title": "International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing", "text": "International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing\n\nThe International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (ISPRS) is an international non-governmental organization that enhances international cooperation between the worldwide organizations with interests in the photogrammetry, remote sensing and spatial information sciences. Established in 1910, ISPRS is the oldest international umbrella organization in its field, which may be summarized as addressing “information from imagery”.\nISPRS achieves its aims by:\n\nThe ISPRS scientific and technical programs are organized by five Technical Commissions. Each Commission is sponsored by an ISPRS member organization for the four-year period between Congresses. The five Technical Commissions have established around 60 Working Groups which are responsible for particular topics within the Commissions’ areas of interest. All Technical Commissions hold a Symposium within their country in 2018. Smaller workshops will be organized by the Working Groups before the 2020 Congress is organized from June 28 - July 4, 2020, in Nice, France, by the French Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing (http://www.isprs2020-nice.com).\n\nPhotogrammetry is used for the derivation of 3D information of points, lines and areas on the terrain from aerial and satellite images for the development of geospatial databases and spatial information systems (SIS). The data can be used in digital, graphical and orthophoto forms as maps, charts and overlays. Photogrammetry is also used for the general measurement and interpretation of objects from images, image sequences, and other non-contact techniques, by providing precise 3D point coordinates and other geometric and semantic object information for populating spatial databases and for creating virtual reality 3D scenes with real-life textured models.\n\nRemotely sensed observations of the Earth from air- and space-borne sensors provide the basis for mapping of human and natural activities; for monitoring change; for assessing and mitigating disasters; for identifying and assessing non-renewable resources; for monitoring temporal changes in weather, land and sea cover; and for many other applications. Spatial and semantic descriptions of objects and features are derived from 3D measurements of imagery, and the interpretation of their spectral and semantic attributes from panchromatic, multispectral and other remotely sensed data.\n\nThe description and location of objects and features obtained from images, as well as temporal relationships between physical objects and processes, can be integrated with other data using approaches from Spatial Information Science for analysis, simulation, prediction, visualization purposes. Spatial Information Science is being applied in urban and infrastructure planning, land and resource management, monitoring the environment, and understanding many other natural and man-made processes and phenomena.\n\nThe principal activities of ISPRS are:\n\nISPRS is currently a society composed of 92 national, 16 associate, 15 regional and 58 sustaining societies and organizations, led by a Council for policy direction and management in accordance with resolutions set forth by its General Assembly, which convenes every four years. Organizations may join ISPRS as:\nIndividuals usually participate in the activities of the Society through affiliation of an ISPRS Member organization. However, they can also join ISPRS as an Individual Member. Individuals interested in contributing to the scientific and technologic activities of the Society are encouraged to join one of the Working Groups which operate under the leadership of the eight Technical Commissions.\n\nThe technical commissions are responsible for, and manage all aspects of, the scientific and technical activities of ISPRS.\n\nThe ISPRS Foundation is intended to improve the ability of ISPRS to satisfy its aims and objectives by administering a broadly-based international program of fundraising to provide grants to qualified individuals and organizations who are pursuing and/or applying knowledge for advancing the sciences and technologies associated with the disciplines embodied by ISPRS. The Foundation raises, invests and grants funds on an unrestricted basis for this purpose. It contributes significantly to the efforts of ISPRS in international cooperation and technology transfer.\n\n\nISPRS is actively involved in the work of the United Nations Committee of Experts on Global Geospatial Information Management (UN-GGIM), the United Nations Committee on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space (COPUOS), the Group on Earth Observations (GEO), and the International Council for Science (ICSU) and has significant relations with several other international scientific societies. \n\n\n\"As of 21 October 2009, this article uses content from the International Society for Photogrammetry and Remote Sensing, which has been licensed under the and . All relevant terms must be followed.\"\n"}
{"id": "7458129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7458129", "title": "Johannes Ruysch", "text": "Johannes Ruysch\n\nJohannes Ruysch (c. 1460? in Utrecht – 1533 in Cologne), a.k.a. \"Johann Ruijsch\" or \"Giovanni Ruisch\" was an explorer, cartographer, astronomer, manuscript illustrator and painter from the Low Countries who produced a famous map of the world: the second oldest known printed representation of the New World. This Ruysch map was published and widely distributed in 1507.\n\nIn old documents Ruysch was sometimes called a Fleming or German, but he was likely born in Utrecht in the current Netherlands. It is thought (see the Beneventanus commentary below) that he accompanied John Cabot on his expedition to North America in 1497 and 1498, or, considering the prevalence of Portuguese names on his 1507 map, a Portuguese ship leaving from Bristol. Around 1505, Ruysch probably entered the Benedictine monastery of St. Martin in Cologne as a secular priest. Soon he left for Rome, where pope Julius II gave him a dispensation concerning his priestly occupation. He presumably made his world map there in 1507, appears on payrolls in 1508 and 1509 and seems to have specialized in decorative painting. He is thought to be the “Fleming called John”, a close friend of Raphael who at one point resided with him. It has been suggested that he assisted and advised Raphael on his 1509-1510 “Astronomia” and other frescoes in the Stanza della segnatura. Not long after, Ruysch went to work at the Portuguese court as cartographer and astronomer, presumably by recommendation of Julius II who was friends with Manuel I of Portugal. Later, he returned to the St. Martin monastery, suffering from consumption, but able to create a, now lost, astronomical wall painting illustrating the days, months (phases of the Moon), and constellations. He is said to have died at considerable age in 1533 at the monastery, where he had a room adjacent to the library.\n\nThere had been many voyages of discovery immediately before Ruysch created his map :\n\nAlthough there had been maps created after these voyages, such as Juan de la Cosa’s map of the world in 1500 (based on Columbus' second voyage) and the Cantino world map (circa 1502), the information on these maps was closely held and guarded as state secrets. Often a limited number of copies were made.\n\nThis situation changed drastically from 1506 to 1507 when three separate efforts to produce world maps were published. The Contarini-Rosselli map of 1506 (now in the British Library) and Martin Waldseemüller's map of the world and globe of 1507 were very influential, but not very widely published. There is only one original copy of each in existence, and both of these copies were discovered in the 20th century. By contrast, Johannes Ruysch's 1507 map of the world was much more widely published and many copies were produced and still exist. It therefore had a very large influence.\n\nRuysch's 1507 map of the world was included in the 1507 and 1508 southern editions of \"Ptolemy's\" \"Geographia\", an atlas published in Rome. The editor of the 1507 edition of the Geographia was Evangelista Tosinus and the printer was Bernardinus Venetus de Vitalibus. \n\nThe Ruysch map uses Ptolemy's first projection, a coniform projection, as does the Contarini-Rosselli map. Both document Christopher Columbus' discoveries as well as the discoveries of John Cabot, as well as including information from Portuguese sources and Marco Polo's account of his travels. There are notes on his map that clearly were from Portuguese sources. \n\nNewfoundland is shown connected to Asia in the Ruysch map, as Cabot believed. The presence of codfish is noted on the Ruysch map in the area of the Grand Banks of Newfoundland. \n\nGreenland is shown connected to Newfoundland and Asia on Ruysch's map, and not Europe as earlier maps had showed. Around the north pole, Ruysch drew islands, based on reports in the book \"Inventio Fortunata\" of the English friar Nicholas of Lynne. The island above Norway shows remarkable similarities to Svalbard, which would not be discovered until 1597 (by Willem Barents). Ruysch calls it 'European Hyberborea' and a peninsula stretching out towards it is clearly marked with the church of 'Sancti Odulfi', St Olaf's church in Vardø on the Finnmark coast.\n\nRuysch’s map contains the discoveries the Portuguese had made along the African coast. Ruysch's map shows Africa as a peninsula surrounded by water. The horn of Africa on Ruysch's map is at approximately the correct latitude. Ruysch's map shows India as a triangular peninsula with Ceylon in the correct proportion and position. \n\nRuysch's map has details about Asia based on data gathered by travelers like Marco Polo, as well as Greco-Roman authorities. Unaware of the existence of the Pacific Ocean he, like Christopher Columbus, saw Central and North America as the eastern part of Asia. He accepted that \"Sipango\" [Japan] and \"Hispaniola\" [Haiti] were one and the same, a concept he expressed in the legend he inscribed on his world map: Marco Polo says that 1500 miles to the east of the port of ZAITON (Quanzhou) there is a very large island called SIPANGO whose inhabitants are idolaters: they have their own king and pay tribute to none. Here there is a great amount of gold and gems of all kinds. But as the islands discovered by Spanish ships occupy this place, we do not dare to put this island here, believing what the Spaniards call SPAGNOLA to be SIPANGO, for everything that is written of Sipango is found in Spagnola except for the idolatry.\n\nThere was a map commentary also included in the 1508 edition, entitled \"Orbis nouo descriptio\" and written by an Italian Celestinian monk named Marcus Beneventanus. Beneventanus, wrote in the commentary on the Ruysch map for the 1508 Ptolemy edition: \n\nCommentary:\nThe church \"Sancti Odulfi\" shown on Ruysch's map, is not the church in Vardø, Finnmark, but the cathedral in Trondheim. It is placed exactly where Trondheim is supposed to be on the map. This cathedral is the very Saint Olaf Cathedral, as it was built upon his grave.\nThe church in Vardø was constructed in AD 1307 and was the first church in Finnmark. So, it was in place long before Ruysch made his map, and to be true, no one knows from what saint it was named.\nNeither is it any reason for thinking that the island above Norway is meant to be Svalbard. It has no remarkable similarity to Svalbard, and in fact there are four similar islands. Then it is more probable that this feature of the map is inspired by the Inventio Fortunatae, or from the fact that the old cartographers wanted the landmasses to be in balance.\n\n"}
{"id": "2764695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2764695", "title": "Karitane Shoal", "text": "Karitane Shoal\n\nKaritane Shoal is a shoal located in the Pacific Ocean south of the Cook Islands. It is submerged under nine metres (27 ft) of water.\n"}
{"id": "27754776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27754776", "title": "Keathley Canyon", "text": "Keathley Canyon\n\nKeathley Canyon is an undersea canyon in the United States Exclusive Economic Zone in the Gulf of Mexico. The canyon is named for the hydrographic survey ship USNS \"Sergeant George D. Keathley\" (T-AGS-35).\n\nThe Canyon is rich in oil fields. The major oilfields at the Keathley Canyon are Tiber, Kaskida, Lucius, and Buckskin. Many oil companies, including Chevron Corporation, BP, Anadarko Petroleum, ExxonMobil, Repsol, Shell, Devon Energy, BHP Billiton, Eni, and Total S.A. have leased the rights to drill for oil in this area.\n\nIn June, 2011, ExxonMobil announced two major oil and gas discoveries in Keathley Canyon blocks 918, 919, and 964 (Hadrian field) southwest of New Orleans, with combined estimated reserves of . The find was \"the company’s first deepwater exploration well following a U.S. moratorium\" after the Deepwater Horizon explosion and oil spill in the Gulf in 2010 and \"one of the largest discoveries in the Gulf ... in the last decade.\" \"Exxon holds a 50% working interest in four ... blocks. Units owned by Petrobras and Eni SPA hold a 25% interest in three of the blocks. Petrobras also owns 50% of one of the blocks.\"\n"}
{"id": "22371332", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22371332", "title": "Kiwi Seamount, Atlantic Ocean", "text": "Kiwi Seamount, Atlantic Ocean\n\nThe Kiwi Seamount is a seamount in the Atlantic Ocean. It is part of the New England Seamounts, which was active more than 100 million years ago. It was formed when the North American Plate moved over the New England hotspot.\n"}
{"id": "5892614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5892614", "title": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest on the Isle of Wight", "text": "List of Sites of Special Scientific Interest on the Isle of Wight\n\nThis is a list of the Sites of Special Scientific Interest (SSSIs) on the Isle of Wight, England. The Isle of Wight is an island and county three miles off the south coast of England in the English Channel. Its geology is complex, with a chalk downland ridge running east to west through its centre and important fossil beds from the Lower Cretaceous to the Lower Tertiary around the coast. This geology gives rise to many distinct habitats, with strong maritime influences, including chalk grassland, neutral meadows, and broad-leaved woodland. The Isle of Wight has a population of 140,000, making it one of the country's smaller counties in terms of population.\n\nIn England, the body responsible for designating SSSIs is Natural England, which chooses a site because of its fauna, flora, geological or physiographical features. Natural England took over the role of designating and managing SSSIs from English Nature in October 2006, when it was formed from the amalgamation of English Nature, parts of the Countryside Agency, and the Rural Development Service. , there are 41 sites designated in this Area of Search; of these, 26 have been designated for their biological interest, 4 for their geological interest, and 11 for both.\n\nThe data in the table is taken from citation sheets for each SSSI, available at their website.\n"}
{"id": "31839846", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31839846", "title": "List of Tokyo DisneySea attractions", "text": "List of Tokyo DisneySea attractions\n\nTokyo DisneySea is a theme park in Urayasu, Chiba, Japan, just outside Tokyo. This is a list of current and past attractions – rides, shows, restaurants, and shops – that have appeared at the park. Character meets and atmosphere entertainment (e.g., roving musicians) are not listed. Also not listed are attractions from the neighboring Tokyo Disneyland.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nOn June 14, 2018, The Walt Disney Company announced that Tokyo DisneySea would be expanding. An eighth \"port\" will be added to the seven themed ports currently in the park. The eighth port will be themed to \"magical springs that lead to a world of Disney fantasy and will include four new attractions.\" It will be themed around the Disney films \"Frozen\", \"Tangled\", and \"Peter Pan\". A new deluxe hotel with a one-of-a-kind luxury wing will also be connected to the port.\n\n"}
{"id": "37740467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37740467", "title": "List of World Heritage sites in Cyprus", "text": "List of World Heritage sites in Cyprus\n\nThis is a list of World Heritage sites in Cyprus as inscribed on the World Heritage List of the United Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO). The World Heritage sites are places of importance to cultural or natural heritage as described in the UNESCO World Heritage Convention, established in 1972. The Republic of Cyprus accepted the convention on 14 August 1975, making its sites eligible for inclusion on the list. As of 2018, there are three World Heritage sites in Cyprus, all of which are cultural sites.\n\nIn addition to its inscribed sites, Cyprus also maintains eleven properties on its tentative list.\n\nThe table is sortable by column by clicking on the at the top of the appropriate column; alphanumerically for the site, area, and year columns; by state party for the location column; and by criteria type for the criteria column. Transborder sites sort at the bottom.\n\nIn addition to sites inscribed on the World Heritage list, member states can maintain a list of tentative sites that they may consider for nomination. Nominations for the World Heritage list are only accepted if the site was previously listed on the tentative list. As of 2018, Cyprus maintains eleven properties on its tentative list:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23058400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23058400", "title": "List of administrative communes", "text": "List of administrative communes\n\nThis list of administrative communes consists of articles about the governmental divisions known as communes, as well as lists of communes. \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13196061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13196061", "title": "List of diplomatic missions in Antigua and Barbuda", "text": "List of diplomatic missions in Antigua and Barbuda\n\nThis is a list of diplomatic missions in Antigua and Barbuda. At present, the capital city of St. John's hosts four embassies. Several other countries have honorary consuls to provide emergency services to their citizens.\n\nSt. John's\n\n (Kingston)\n (Port-of-Spain)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2764267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2764267", "title": "List of government bonds", "text": "List of government bonds\n\nThis is a list of categories of government bonds around the world.\n\nIssued by: Ministry of Strategy and Finance\nMinistry of Strategy and Finance\nIssued By: Ministry of Finance (Zaimu-shō)\nMinistry of Finance\nIssued by: Hong Kong Monetary Authority\nIssued by: Ministry of Finance\n\n\nIssued By: \"Österreichische Bundesfinanzierungsagentur\", the Austrian Federal Financing Agency\n\n\nÖsterreichische Bundesfinanzierungsagentur\nIssued By: \"Agentschap van de schuld/Agence de la Dette\", the Belgian Debt Agency\n\nAgentschap van de schuld/Agence de la Dette\nIssued By: \"Valtiokonttori\", the Finland State Treasury\n\n\nValtiokonttori\nIssued By: \"Agence France Trésor\", the French Debt Agency\n\nAgence France Trésor\nIssued By: \"German Finance Agency\", the German Debt Agency\n\nFederal Republic of Germany - Finance Agency\nIssued By: \"Οργανισμός Διαχείρισης Δημοσίου Χρέους\", the Public Debt Management Agency (PDMA).\n\nNegotiable debt : Euro 354bn on 31 March 2011\n\nDebt Management Agency\nIssued By: \"Dipartimento del Tesoro\"\nDipartimento del Tesoro\nIssued by: \"Agentschap van het ministerie van Financiën\", the Dutch State Treasury Agency\n\nDutch State Treasury Agency\nIssued By: \"Tesoro Público\", the Spanish Public Treasury \n\nTesoro Público\n\nIssued By: Ministry of Finance\nIssued By: Danmarks Nationalbank, the Danish National Bank\n\nUdstedelsespapirer\nIssued By: UK Debt Management Office\n\nUK Debt Management Office\nIssued By: \"Lánasýsla ríkisins\", the Icelandic National Debt Management Agency\n\nBond information in English\nNational Debt Management Agency\nIssued By: \"Ministerul Finanțelor Publice\", the Public Finance Ministry\nBond information in English from the Ministry of Public Finance \nIssued By: \"Riksgäldskontoret\", the Swedish National Debt Office\n\nRiksgäldskontoret\n\nIssued by: COFINA, Puerto Rico Government Development Bank\n\nIssued By: Bureau of the Fiscal Service\n\nBureau of the Fiscal Service\nIssued By: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "51614635", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51614635", "title": "List of lighthouses in the Comoros", "text": "List of lighthouses in the Comoros\n\nThis is a list of lighthouses in Comoros. \n\n"}
{"id": "11358087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11358087", "title": "List of mammals of Niue", "text": "List of mammals of Niue\n\nThis is a list of the mammal species recorded in Niue. There are 4 mammal species in Niue, none of which are known to be at risk.\n\nThe following tags are used to highlight each species' conservation status as assessed by the IUCN:\nSome species were assessed using an earlier set of criteria. Species assessed using this system have the following instead of Near Threatened and Least Concern categories:\n\nThe bats' most distinguishing feature is that their forelimbs are developed as wings, making them the only mammals in the world naturally capable of flight. Bat species account for about 20% of all mammals.\n\n\nThe order Cetacea includes whales, dolphins and porpoises. They are the mammals most fully adapted to aquatic life with a spindle-shaped nearly hairless body, protected by a thick layer of blubber, and forelimbs and tail modified to provide propulsion underwater.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7964379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7964379", "title": "List of mobile network operators of Europe", "text": "List of mobile network operators of Europe\n\nA mobile network operator or MNO (also known as a wireless service provider, wireless carrier, cellular company, or mobile network carrier) is a provider of wireless communications services. The main MNOs in Europe are listed below.\n\nAlbania as per Q1 2018 has 5.18 million subscribers (180% penetration rate), out of which there are 2.9 million active users (101% penetration rate). An active user is the number of users that communicated in the last three months.\n\nThe regulatory authority for telecommunication in Albania is the Electronic and Postal Communications Authority.\n\nAndorra has 65.000 mobile subscribers or about 76.4% mobile penetration.\n\nAs of June 2014, Armenia has 3,3 million subscribers in total, and a 120% penetration rate.\n\nAustria has 13,0 million assigned numbers (i.e. 2,0 2G, 10,8 3G and 0,1 4G SIM cards), or a 151.0% penetration rate (4Q 2014).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Austria is the Austrian Regulatory Authority for Broadcasting and Telecommunications (RTR).\n\nIn December 2005, Azerbaijan had 2 million subscribers in total, a 25% penetration rate. In 2014, Azerbaijan has over 10 million subscribers in total and 130% penetration rate\n\nBelarus has 10.7 million subscribers in total, or a 113% penetration rate. (Q4 2011)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Belarus is the Ministry of Communications and Informatization\n\nBelgium has 13.89 million subscribers in total, or a 124% penetration rate (Q4 2014).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Belgium is the Belgian Institute for Postal services and Telecommunications (BIPT).\n\nIn December 2016, Bosnia and Herzegovina had 3.404 million subscribers in total, or a penetration rate (compared to the World Bank population estimate of 2016).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Bosnia and Herzegovina is the Communications Regulatory Agency (Regulatorna agencija za komunikacije, RAK).\n\nBulgaria has 8 532 908 subscribers in total, or a 121.0% penetration rate according to the CRC annual report for 2017.\nThe Regulatory Authority for Telecommunication in Bulgaria is the Communications Regulation Commission (CRC).\n\nCroatia has 4,454,917 subscribers in total, or a 104% penetration rate. (Q2 2015)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Croatia is the Hrvatska agencija za poštu i elektronicke komunikacije (website available in Croatian and English language).\n\nThe Czech Republic has 14.244 million subscribers in total, or a 138% penetration rate (December 2011).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in the Czech Republic is the Český telekomunikační úřad.\n\nDenmark has 8.208 million subscribers in total, or a 146% penetration rate (June 2014). The regulator is the Danish Business Authority.\n\nEstonia has 2.524 million subscribers in total, or a 188% penetration rate. (December 2008)\n\nThe Faroe Islands have 0.061 million subscribers in total (exact number 61,388), or a 126% penetration rate (population 48,652). (December 2014)\n\nFinland has 7.700 million subscribers in total, or a 144.59% penetration rate. (December 2009). See also the Finnish Communications Regulatory Authority (FICORA) at https://www.viestintavirasto.fi/en/\n\nFrance has 75.5 million subscribers in total, or a 115.2% penetration rate (September 2015).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in France is ARCEP.\n\n, Georgia has 5.6 million subscribers in total.\n\nGermany has 114.1 million subscribers in total, or a 140% penetration rate (December 2011).\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Germany is the Bundesnetzagentur (BNetzA).\n\nGibraltar, the British overseas territory has 0.028 million subscribers in total, or a 92.12% penetration rate. (December 2009)\n\nGreece has 16.443 (3Q 2016) million subscribers in total, or a 140% penetration rate (3Q 2016). The Regulatory Authority for telecommunications in Greece is EETT.\n\nGreenland has 0.053 million subscribers in total, or a 93.32% penetration rate. (December 2009)\n\nThe British Crown dependency Guernsey has 0.055 million subscribers in total, or a 95% penetration rate. (December 2005)\n\nHungary has 11.8 million subscribers in total. (December 2017)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Hungary is NMHH – Nemzeti Média-, és Hírközlési Hatóság.\n\nIceland has 0.349 million subscribers in total, or a 108.15% penetration rate. (December 2009)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Iceland is PTA\n\nAt the end of September 2013 Ireland had 5,614,744 mobile subscribers in total, representing a 122.2% penetration rate (September 2013)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Ireland is the Commission for Communications Regulation (ComReg).\n\nThe British Crown dependency Isle of Man has an unknown amount of subscribers in total and an unknown percentage penetration rate.\n\nItaly has 101.4 million subscribers in total, or a 169% penetration rate (September 2018)\n\nThe country's telcom regulator is AGCOM.\n\nIn 2016 Wind Italy and 3 Italy (Tre) have agreed to complete a merger during the following year. The merger has been approved by European and national authorities. A new operator, Iliad, entered the Italian market in May 2018 as a consequence of the merger.\n\nKosovo has 1.88 million subscribers in total, or a 103.47% penetration rate. (June 2018)\n\nLatvia has 2.243 million subscribers in total, or a 99.72% penetration rate. (December 2009)\n\nLiechtenstein has 0.039 million subscribers in total, or a 105% penetration rate. (April 2015)\n\nLithuania has 4.941 million subscribers in total, or a 167% penetration rate (25 October 2013).\n\nThe regulator is Ryšių Reguliavimo Tarnyba (RRT).\n\nLuxembourg has 719,000 subscribers in total, or a 148% penetration rate. (December 2009)\n\nMacedonia has 2.299 million subscribers in total, or a 105% penetration rate.\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Macedonia is AEK \n\nMalta has 0.581 million subscribers in total, or a 137.18% penetration rate (December 2013)\n\nMoldova has 4.263 million subscribers in total, or a 120% penetration rate (2012).\n\nThe country's telecommunications regulator is ANRCETI.\n\nMonaco has 0.023 million subscribers on the Monaco Telecom network, or a 70.1% penetration rate (December 2009). The French networks are also widely available in Monaco, and they don't disclose subscriber figures for Monaco.\n\nMontenegro has 1.097.574 subscribers in total, or a 177.02% penetration rate (October 2013).\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Montenegro is Agencija za elektronske komunikacije i poštansku djelatnost\n\nThe Netherlands has 21.182 million subscribers in total, or a 128% penetration rate (December 2009).\n\nThe Telfort radio network was switched off in Q2 2007. The Orange network was sold in Q4 2007 to T-Mobile.\n\nNorway has 5.730 million subscribers in total, or a 108.97% penetration rate (December 2016).\nThe regulatory authority for telecommunication in Norway is the Norwegian Post and Telecommunications Authority.\n\nPoland has 53,3 million subscribers in total (4Q 2017).\n\nThe country's telcom regulator is the Office of Electronic Communications UKE – Urząd Komunikacji Elektronicznej.\n\nPortugal has 17.6 million subscribers in total, or a 170.5% penetration rate (13.1 million active subscribers or 127.4% penetration rate). (Q3 2017)\n\nThe country's telecom regulator is ANACOM.\n\nRomania has 28.062 million subscribers in total, or a 139.5% penetration rate. (Q4 2016)\nThe country's telcom regulator is ANCOM.\n\nRussia has 247.9 million subscribers in total, or a 173.6% penetration rate. (3Q 2015).\n\nSan Marino has 0.037 million subscribers in total, or a 116.95% penetration rate. (December 2013)\n\nSerbia has 9.1987 million subscribers based on the 3-month customer activity, or a 128.09% penetration rate . (December 2013)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Serbia is RATEL (Republicka agencija za elektronske komunikacije).\n\nSlovakia has 6.68million subscribers in total, or a 122.79% penetration rate. All facts are based on the 3-month customer activity base. (June 2015)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for electronic communications \"telecommunication\" in Slovakia is Úrad pre reguláciu elektronických komunikácií a poštových služieb (RÚ)\n\nSlovenia has 2.437.783 subscribers in total, or a 118% penetration rate. (1Q 2018)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Slovenia is AKOS (Agencija za komunikacijska omrežja in storitve)\n\nSpain has 52 million subscribers in total, or a 110.2% penetration rate. (January 2018)\n\nThe Regulatory Authority for telecommunication in Spain is CNMC (Comisión Nacional de los Mercados y la Competencia).\n\nSweden has 14.244 million subscribers in total, or a 148.4% penetration rate (2013)\n\nThe country's telcom regulator is PTS.\n\nSwitzerland has 11.365 million mobile subscribers and a 138% penetration rate (December 2014)\nThe country's telecom regulator is BAKOM.\n\nUkraine has 60.720 million subscribers in total, or a 142% penetration rate. (December 2015)\n\nThe country's telecom regulator is NKRZI.\n\nThe United Kingdom has 92.0 million subscribers in total, or an approximate 139% penetration rate (31 December 2017).\n\nIn addition to these major mobile network operators, there are many MVNOs in the UK. The British mobile virtual network operators include giffgaff, BT Mobile, Lycamobile, Virgin Mobile and many others. These do not own a wireless mobile network infrastructure of their own and use the infrastructure from the country's major mobile network operators who do have mobile infrastructure instead (see MVNOs in the UK for more information).\n\nThe country's telecom regulator is Ofcom.\n"}
{"id": "25342828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25342828", "title": "List of museums in Prince Edward Island", "text": "List of museums in Prince Edward Island\n\nThis list of museums in Prince Edward Island, Canada contains museums which are defined for this context as institutions (including nonprofit organizations, government entities, and private businesses) that collect and care for objects of cultural, artistic, scientific, or historical interest and make their collections or related exhibits available for public viewing. Also included are non-profit art galleries and university art galleries. Museums that exist only in cyberspace (i.e., virtual museums) are not included. \n\nTo use the sortable table, click on the icons at the top of each column to sort that column in alphabetical order; click again for reverse alphabetical order.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48817572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48817572", "title": "List of parks in Brunei Darussalam", "text": "List of parks in Brunei Darussalam\n\nThe following is a list of parks in Brunei Darussalam\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20139712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20139712", "title": "List of people from Hebron", "text": "List of people from Hebron\n\nThe following list of people were born in Hebron.\n\n"}
{"id": "2286617", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2286617", "title": "List of postal codes in Finland", "text": "List of postal codes in Finland\n\nPostal codes in Finland are managed by Itella, the Finnish national post office.\n\nThe codes have five digits, where the first two designate the municipality (or group of municipalities) and the following two the district or village. The last digit is usually a zero in street addresses (except in some small communities where it may be a five). Postal codes ending in the digit one are used for post office boxes. Some recipients of large volumes of mail have their own postal codes.\n\nThese are the areas identified by the first two digits of the postal codes. Note that the districts given here are approximate, as real postal code districts seldom follow administrative region or province boundaries, and sometimes even a single municipality can be located in multiple postal code districts.\n\nA unique postcode, 99999, is designated to Korvatunturi, where Santa Claus is said to live.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19300610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19300610", "title": "List of railway stations in Amsterdam", "text": "List of railway stations in Amsterdam\n\nThis is an index for the Amsterdam railway stations. Amsterdam is the capital of the Netherlands.\nThe operator of all trains within and around Amsterdam is the Nederlandse Spoorwegen.\n\n\n\nRailway stations in the Amsterdam area are: \n"}
{"id": "19240761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19240761", "title": "List of streets and piazzas in Valletta", "text": "List of streets and piazzas in Valletta\n\nThis page lists some streets and piazzas (squares) in Valletta, Malta.\n\n\nA piazza () is a public square. A number of formerly existing square in Valletta no longer exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "32646268", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32646268", "title": "Mariehamn sub-region", "text": "Mariehamn sub-region\n\nMariehamn sub-region is a subdivision of Åland and one of the Sub-regions of Finland since 2009.\n"}
{"id": "55471256", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55471256", "title": "Mjesto Primišlje", "text": "Mjesto Primišlje\n\nMjesto Primišlje is a village in Croatia, under the Slunj township, in Karlovac County.\n"}
{"id": "43545232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43545232", "title": "Mond protected area", "text": "Mond protected area\n\nMond protected area is a plain and desert protected area on the Persian Gulf coast of the Bord Khun District, Deyr County, Bushehr Province in southern Iran. The protected area was established in 1976. The Mond River empties into the Persian Gulf in the northern part of the area.\n\n"}
{"id": "24306798", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24306798", "title": "NUTS statistical regions of Malta", "text": "NUTS statistical regions of Malta\n\nIn the NUTS (Nomenclature of Territorial Units for Statistics) codes of Malta (MT), the three levels are:\n\nBelow the NUTS levels, the two LAU (Local Administrative Units) levels are:\n\n\"The LAU codes of Malta can be downloaded here:\" \"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28879083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28879083", "title": "Odaesan National Park", "text": "Odaesan National Park\n\nOdaesan National Park () is located in the province of Gangwon-do, South Korea. It was first designated as the 11th national park in 1975. The park is named after the mountain Odaesan, which means \"Five Plains Mountain\", named after the five plains between the area's five major peaks. The park is home to a total of 3,788 species: 1,040 plant species, 28 mammal species, 103 bird species, 13 amphibian species, 12 reptile species, 35 fish species, 1,976 insect species and 157 spider species.\nThe park has some tourist amenities such as campgrounds, walking paths, and pension-style accommodations.\n\n"}
{"id": "16279193", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16279193", "title": "Outline of Nigeria", "text": "Outline of Nigeria\n\nFederal Republic of Nigeria – sovereign country located in West Africa. Nigeria is a federal constitutional republic comprising thirty-six states and one Federal Capital Territory. Nigeria borders the Republic of Benin in the west, Chad and Cameroon in the east, and Niger in the north. Its coast lies on the Gulf of Guinea, part of the Atlantic Ocean, in the south. The capital of Nigeria is Abuja.\n\nThe people of Nigeria have an extensive history, and archaeological evidence shows that human habitation of the area dates back to at least 9000 BC. The Benue-Cross River area is thought to be the original homeland of the Bantu migrants who spread across most of central and southern Africa in waves between the 1st millennium BC and the 2nd millennium.\n\nNigeria is the most populous country in Africa and the eighth most populous country in the world with a population of over 140 million. The country is listed among the \"Next Eleven\" economies, and is one of the fastest growing in the world with the International Monetary Fund projecting growth of 9% in 2008 and 8.3% in 2009.\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to Nigeria:\n\n\nGeography of Nigeria\n\n\nEnvironment of Nigeria\n\nOlumirin Water Falls, Erin Ijesa, Oriade Local Government Area, Osun State.\n\nList of ecoregions in Nigeria\n\n\nDemographics of Nigeria\n\nPolitics of Nigeria\n\nGovernment of Nigeria\n\n\n\nCourt system of Nigeria\n\nForeign relations of Nigeria\n\nThe Federal Republic of Nigeria is a member of:\n\nLaw of Nigeria\n\nMilitary of Nigeria\n\nLocal government in Nigeria\ncharacteristic of local government in Nigeria\n\nHistory of Nigeria\n\nCulture of Nigeria\n\n\nSports in Nigeria\n\nEconomy of Nigeria\n\nEducation in Nigeria\n\nThis the problem that arise from the large land mass of Nigeria\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40643932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40643932", "title": "Pazundaung Creek", "text": "Pazundaung Creek\n\nPazundaung Creek (, known upstream as Ngamoeyeik Creek) is a stream that empties into Yangon River. The center of Rangoon (now Yangon) was established at the confluence of Yangon River to the west and south and Pazundaung Creek to the east. The areas surrounding Pazundaung Creek have high concentrations of Burmese Indians. The Great Bell of Dhammazedi, one of the largest bells in the world, sank into the creek in 1608, when Filipe de Brito e Nicote, then governor of Syriam (now Thanlyin), removed it from the Shwedagon Pagoda.\n"}
{"id": "5115245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5115245", "title": "Raudhatain", "text": "Raudhatain\n\nThe Raudhatain oil field is an oil field in Northern Kuwait. It contains 6 billion barrels of oil. It is being heavily developed.\n\n"}
{"id": "58098321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58098321", "title": "Sunda (continent)", "text": "Sunda (continent)\n\nSunda was a prehistoric continent that consisted of\nMainland and Maritime Southeast Asia. It was partially submerged around 18,000 years ago.\n\nSahul and Sunda were points of early human migrations after leaving Africa.\n"}
{"id": "12923850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12923850", "title": "Telephone numbers in Pakistan", "text": "Telephone numbers in Pakistan\n\nArea codes in Pakistan are from two to five digits long; the smaller the city, the longer the prefix. All the large cities have two-digit codes.\n\nSmaller towns have a six digit number. Large cities have seven digit numbers. Azad Jammu and Kashmir has five digit numbers. On 1 July 2009, telephone numbers in Karachi and Lahore were changed from seven digits to eight digits. This was accomplished by adding the digit \"9\" to the beginning of any phone number that started with a \"9\" (government and semi-government connexions), and adding the digit \"3\" to any phone numbers that did not start with the number \"9\".\n\nIt is common to write phone numbers as (0xx) yyyyyyy, where xx is the area code. The 0 prefix is for trunk (long-distance) dialling from within the country. International callers should dial +92xxyyyyyyy\n\nAll mobile phone codes are four digits long and start with 03. All mobile numbers are seven digits long, and denote the mobile provider on a nationwide basis and not geographic location. Thus all Telenor numbers (for example) nationwide carry mobile code 0345 etc.\n\nNWD (area) codes for common cities are:\nPremium Rate services:\n\nToll free numbers (For callers within Pakistan):\n\nSee also List of dialling codes in Pakistan\n\nFixed line numbers:\n\nWLL/IP Phone numbers:\n\nMobile telephone numbers in Pakistan are of the following format 03XZ-YYYYYYY where X is the single letter code assigned to a specific mobile telephone operator and Z-YYYYYYY is the local telephone number from any mobile phone or Land Line.\n\n\nExisting Codes\n\n\nInternational callers must dial +92-3XZ-YYYYYYY to reach a mobile number in Pakistan from outside Pakistan, where '+92' is the Country Code, '3XZ' is Mobile Access Code as per the above list and 'YYYYYYY' is personal number.\n\nWithin Pakistan the same number can be reached by dialing either 03XZ-YYYYYYY or '0092-3XZ-YYYYYYY' or '+92-3XZ-YYYYYYY' from any mobile device or land line.\n\nIn order to dial a land line number from a mobile phone in Pakistan, city code is required in all cases. However, city code is not required between land line calls within the same city. For instance, to call a land line number 'YYYYYYY' from another land line in the same city, dial only 'YYYYYYY'. However, to call this number from another land line in another city or from a mobile phone anywhere (same city or another city), dial '(0XX)-YYYYYYY'.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16802596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16802596", "title": "Three Cheers for the Paraclete", "text": "Three Cheers for the Paraclete\n\nThree Cheers for the Paraclete (1968) is a novel by the Australian author Thomas Keneally. It won the Miles Franklin Award in 1968.\n\nAfter studying overseas for some years a young priest, James Maitland, returns to Australia to teach at a seminary. \n\nIn \"The Canberra Times\", John N. Molony is impressed with the book but finds a number of problems with it: \"The heart of the novel is about belief, but for this reviewer the transplant didn't work. It is hard to say about a Keneally that his theme was too big for him and that he couldn't incarnate his problem in living characters. Yet in this instance they do not measure up.\"\n\n\"Kirkus Reviews\" found something more in the book: 'Keneally's rather existential points are made with delicacy, at times with a warm, broad humor, and Father James is a vigorous, attractive priest. A thoughtful and sentient book.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "18686309", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18686309", "title": "Transmitter Location Systems", "text": "Transmitter Location Systems\n\nTransmitter Location Systems, LLC (TLS) is a satellite radio interference geolocation company based in Chantilly, Virginia, U.S.A.\n\nTLS's only business is geolocating the source of satellite radio interference, including one incident when a base in Cuba was accused by United States officials of jamming U.S. satellite broadcasts to Iran. TLS is a wholly owned subsidiary of Interferometrics, Inc., a science and engineering company.\n\nThe company's technology was created from early research in radio astronomy. TLS owns several U.S. patents on geolocation technology. It sells and operates a commercial system called TLS NexGen, and provides a 24/7 geolocation service for satellite operators worldwide.\n\nThe company also provides various services supporting communications analysis.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36721479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36721479", "title": "Travno", "text": "Travno\n\nTravno is an urban settlement of the Croatian capital of Zagreb, located in a city district of Novi Zagreb – istok.\n\nIt is one of the most densely populated settlements in Croatia mostly due to the largest dwelling house in Croatia: Mamutica.\n"}
