{"id": "53206947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53206947", "title": "Academic freedom in the Middle East", "text": "Academic freedom in the Middle East\n\nAcademic freedom in the Middle East is a contested and debated issue, which has caught regional and international attention. In the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) region, in general, the authoritarian regimes have all showed a certain degree of opposition to every sort of freedom, academic one not excluded, regardless of the type of regime basis they had. Freedom for academicians to inquiry, research, teach and communicate ideas or report facts without being threatened or persecuted or with the possibility of losing their position, being censored or repressed is threatened. What contributes to academic freedom violations is also that they are essential elements for the regimes to maintain their power and in addition to this issue, interstate and civil wars as well as internal disorders and external intervention can damage educational structures and institutions. Additionally, as far as the regime is concerned, a security or national threat can be a pretest for suffocate or suspend academic research and debate. Restrictions on academic freedom also regards the topics of research, which are under significant constraints, although these might be highly interesting and worth researching.\n\nThere are many organizations that deal with monitoring violations of academic freedom and report academicians' voices, through publishing letters directed to public figures and also directed to the international community.\n\nScholars at Risk is an international network based in the United States, specifically at the University of Chicago. The aim of this organization is to support scholars and defend academic freedom and human rights all over the world. One of the projects of this network is the Academic Freedom Monitor.\n\nThe online website Academic Freedom Monitor deals with reporting violations related to academic freedom. It is based on robust sources of information, which come from independent actors and are, then, verified. According to the Academic Freedom Monitor, which reports cases since 2010 until now, there are different categories of violation regarding the issue.\nRegarding the Middle East and Northern Africa, the AFM registers cases in: Turkey, United Arab Emirates, Iran, Lebanon, Syria, Israel, Kuwait, Yemen, Iraq, Palestine (OPT), Bahrain, Saudi Arabia, Jordan, Egypt, Morocco, Libya and Tunisia.\n\nAcademic Freedom Monitor identifies different types of violations as following:\n\nThe Middle East Studies Association (MESA) is an association which brings together scholars and informed people with an interested in the MENA region. This association is the promoter of the \"International Journal of Middle East Studies\" and has the aim to promote cooperation, communication and boost the learning regarding the Middle East. One of the fields it is dealing with regards academic freedom. This association has created a Committee on Academic Freedom (CAF), which aims to remove any obstacle regarding the exchange of knowledge and any restrictions on academicians coming also from governments.\n\nAcademic freedom in Turkey has been through a series of changes and fluctuations. It is often irregular, inadequate and closely tied to the politics in the country. Several reform initiatives have been taken throughout Turkey's history which aim at restructuring governance of higher education and thus affecting academic freedom. The first reform initiative was in 1933, as Malche was invited by Atatürk to restructure Istanbul University (Istanbul Darülfünun). One of the reforms that made it to the law 2252 was according universities with more freedom. In 1946, the Law Number 4936 accorded universities with unprecedented rights, as academicians were seen as guardians of democracy second to the military. \nThe Democratic Party in 1953 passed laws that would undermine the universities' control over their budget, retirement of academicians and their employment rights. Those attacks on academic freedom were aimed at confining professors from being involved in partisan politics resulting in several cases of suspensions of academicians and denial of promotions. The 1960 coup was seen as a promise for reversal of the DP's encroachment over university autonomy, as it recruited academicians in government offices, selected to write the constitution and other vital roles. However, the 1960 coup junta surprisingly dismissed 147 academicians who were not in agreement with some members of the junta. \nIn 1973, higher education was restructured with the increased sovereignty of the Interuniversity Council (ÜAK), while at the same time universities were given complete autonomy.\n\nThe current Higher Education Law was implemented in 1981 following the 1980 coup. The law maintains that, “universities are judicial structures which are managed and supervised by the organs selected among them. University organs, academics and teaching assistants cannot be removed from their posts for no reason by authorities outside the university” (YÖK 2007). Yet academic freedom became too dependent on The Council of Higher Education (YÖK) as the reform moved towards creating a more centralized system around the YÖK in matters regarding budgetary control, staff employment and student selection. The law defines the name, number and discipline of each faculty or vocational school. While universities can establish departments, their approval is subject to the Council.\n\nEgypt is one of the countries where academic freedom is not a right freely enjoyed. Since the start of the 1990s, academics in Egypt have faced several forms of repression and endured many violations such as judicial convictions, public condemnation, and physical violence from both private individuals and groups, mainly the Islamists, and government officials. On one hand, there are Egyptian state authorities using police, political appointees, and regulations and laws to control university life. On the other hand, Islamist militants are resorting to physical violence and public attacks to have a say in the content of higher education.\nAll aspects of university life including the classroom, student activities, research, campus demonstrations were affected by government and private repression. The professors and students find themselves censored and enable to cross the “red lines” of politics, religion, and sex.\nFaculty appointments and promotions are controlled by the state. Student activities are limited once outside the classroom, and campus protests are often violently responded to. All these factors contribute to the deterioration of the academic freedom situation in Egypt and to the general decline of the educational environment.\n\nWhile Article 21 of the 2014 Egyptian constitution, issued under Abdel Fattah el-Sisi’s rule, ensures that “the state guarantees the independence of universities, scientific and linguistic academies” and that “it commits to providing university education in accordance with global quality criteria, and to developing free university education in state universities and institutes as per the law\", the Egyptian state still violates its constitutional provisions through various repressive ways in an attempt to curb academic freedom. Article 23 of the constitution claims that “the state grants the freedom of scientific research and encourages its institutions.”</ref>\nHowever, freedom of scientific research has often been interfered with and even hindered on various occasions by state authorities. Universities under Sisi’s rule have been described as “experiencing the lowest levels of academic freedom the country has ever known.\" In fact, many observers maintained that the violations against Egyptian academics under El-Sisi’s rule exceed those witnessed during Mubarak’s time. In academic year 2014, 761 student arrests and 281 student expulsions took place. Moreover, the state sentenced to death a university professor for writing critical articles about the regime and accused him of “conspiring to undermine Egypt’s national security”, and arrested many others who dared to criticize the regime.\nThe state also monitors what ideas come in and not just the research that comes out. Several universities are canceling their study abroad programs or breaking off their cooperations with foreign universities. For example, Cairo’s Ain Shams University canceled its study abroad program to Turkey and Damanhour University stopped its cooperation with foreign institutions. Furthermore, El-Sisi issued a decree banning any academic travel outside Egypt that does not have a prior State Security authorization. This way, the state would be able to control which conferences can be attended and what sources can be used. Even though this decree and many other violations are, according to the articles mentioned above, unconstitutional, they are still enforced.\n\nThere are various cases of academic freedom violations in Egypt. The following are just few of them. Professor Kholoud Saber had her scholarship abroad terminated by Cairo University. She was doing a doctoral research on a scholarship at the Catholic University of Leuven in Belgium, that started on October 2015, when she was ordered to return to Egypt following a recommendation of the Ministry of Higher education in December 2015. Fanny Ohier, a French Master’s student, was arrested and later deported from Egypt. She was working on the April 6 Youth Movement, a group banned by the government as it was accused of state defamation and espionage. She was not given any reason for her arrest by the Egyptian officials but she, reportedly, overheard police officers claiming “she had improper friends.”\nOn another instance, scholar and journalist Ismail Alexandrani was detained, on November 2015, upon his return Egypt from a workshop in Germany. The Egyptian embassy in Berlin had apparently advised the scholar, who happens to be “a vocal critic of human rights violations in Egypt and counterterrorism policy in the Sinai Peninsula,” not to turn up to the workshop titled “Deconstructing Islamist Egypt\" Upon Mr. Alexandrani’s arrival to Egypt, his passport was confiscated and he was questioned for over 19 hours before getting arrested “on charges of ‘joining and supporting a terrorist organization’ and ‘spreading false news liable to disturb public security and harm public interest.\"\n\nOne of the most widely covered stories in relation to the situation of academic freedom in Egypt was the case of the Italian PhD candidate Giulio Regeni, a researcher at the University of Cambridge in the UK. Giulio Regeni was first found dead, in the outskirts of Cairo, a week after he was declared missing on January 25, 2016, which coincided with the fifth anniversary of the Egyptian uprising, and his body demonstrated clear signs of torture and severe beating. The PhD candidate was investigating the Egyptian labor movements at the American University of Cairo at the time of his murder. While government officials maintained that Regeni was kidnapped and murdered by a gang, international and Egyptian human rights activists claim that he was actually targeted for his research by the Egyptian government.\nThe murder of Giulio Regeni remains unsolved. \nThe case of the researcher, and the continuing imprisonment of hundreds of scholars and thousands of students and the various restrictions on academic freedom signal that there is an actual “not improvement but, rather, a further tightening of control, and loss of autonomy and freedom in Egyptian higher education, as well as a shrinkiHing space for critical inquiry and discourse in Egypt generally.\"\n\nIn the 1990s, Israeli academia was characterized by open-mindedness and pluralist vision of debated issues such as revisionist history on 1948 war that was finding its way into the academic society. However, with the Second Intifada and its aftermath, these characteristics gradually vanished also due to the disappearance of Israeli left parties, which in fact used to host a great part of Israeli academia and when leftish positions started to change, this influenced the academic environment as well.\n\nIn what it is considered by many international actors a situation of military occupation with its consequent policies of collective punishments and denial of entrance, such as checkpoints and the construction of the wall between Israel and West Bank, in the Occupied Palestinian Territories access to education for Palestinians has thus been affected. In fact, straight after the beginning of the first Intifada, the ability for the students of West Bank Universities to study and carry on theirs studies have been limited, while later on, in 2006, a travel ban to get into Israel was issued for Palestinian students belonging to Israeli universities. These procedure go along with a series of entry and residence denials for researchers and students, both foreign passport holders and Palestinian-born, which have threatened the ability of carrying on a proper educational and research level in Palestinian universities.\n\nHuman Rights Watch reported various violations perpetrated by Israeli authorities on students, in the academic and educational environment. In 2007, 670 students from Gaza were prevented from achieving higher education in countries such as Egypt, Jordan, Germany, Britain and United States, by being denied the exit permits. In total, the number of Gazans who have been denied to exit Gaza has reached 6400 people and this due to Hamas’ takeover of the territory and Israel controlling Gaza’s border. Those students that left for their studies remained once again trapped when they returned home for the summer. Even when they obtained exit permits, students have been stopped at the passenger crossing in Erez, with the justification of “security concerns”.\n\nIn June 2008, the organization again stated how discrimination by Israeli authorities prevented many Palestinian students from the Gaza Strip to travel abroad or to the West Bank to get a better education. Regarding the chances to travel abroad, in 2008, grants allocated for the Palestinians chosen to study in the United States were redirected because there was no way those students would be allowed by Israel to leave Gaza. For the inability to get visa, the grants destined to Gaza students were transferred to students in the West Bank. The organization has highlighted the necessity and the right for those students to access higher education abroad, since in the Gaza Strip the opportunity are quite limited. For instance, there is not a wide range of degrees, both undergraduate and master’s, in the four available universities. Moreover, there is a total absence of doctoral degrees, and lecturers and teachers from outside are hardly allowed by the Israeli government to enter and teach in Gaza.\n\nThis blockade is said to be a clear violation of the Fourth Geneva Convention, because Israel’s obligation to guarantee the rights of the people under occupation, among which freedom of movement and right to education display, is inconsistent or not committed at all. However, according to international law, Gaza is not occupied since Israel no longer has any military presence in Gaza and Gaza has its own, independent government.\n\nOther types of restrictions regarding academic freedom affects also Israeli scholars, such as Ilan Pappe, an Israeli Jew, who has been forced to resign for the University of Haifa in 2007 for his academic work and political positions, such as academic boycott of Israel. The scholar started researching on the history of the creation of the state of Israel and elaborated a revisionist historical perspective regarding 1948 war. He received along with his family death threats.\n\nIn an interview with Ma’an News, in February 2014, he was asked about academic freedom in Israel and especially regarding his personal experience. This is what he stated:\n\n“Freedom of academic expression in Israel is a bit like the idea of a Israel being a Jewish democracy. You take a universal concept -- everyone has the right to their opinion and everyone has the right to be part of a democracy -- only with one condition: that the universality does not include critique on Zionism and that the democracy would always ensure Jewish majority whatever the demographic and geographical realities are.”\n\nDuring the years that followed the 1979 Iranian revolution, hundreds of academicians and students were killed as a consequence of a highly violent campaign that aimed to repress academic freedom, silence dissent, and enforce uniformity of thought. The freedoms of speech, association, and peaceful assembly of thousands of students and faculty members were breached through various methods of brutality, torture and detention. The reasons behind the arrests and torture ranged from “participating in illegal gatherings”, “propaganda against the system”, to “insulting the supreme leader or government officials.” Other tens of thousands of students and faculty members were forced out of their education and careers and into exile. These assaults on academic freedom continued all throughout the 1980s and became a salient feature of the newly established republic. Paradoxically, it was in universities where the initial revolutionary ‘texts’, aimed to oust the Shah, were produced and circulated. Indeed, universities came to represent the de facto ‘spaces’ where open-ended critical discourse was taking place. Nevertheless, they became the primary target of attack after the fall of the monarchy and the rise of Ayatollah Khomeini to power.\n\nA merciless campaign of repression has been waged by the Iranian authorities against academic freedom during the last three decades. Academics and students were routinely detained, harassed and expelled from universities because of their beliefs, political affiliations and peaceful activism. The use of coercion and repressive methods was stepped up after the election of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad in 2005. The latter attempted to ‘Islamize’ the educational curriculum through purging it from secular and ‘Western’ influences. Furthermore, a large number of students and academics were barred from universities, following a policy of “starring” that punished those who do not conform to the state's political and social views. The government of President Ahmadinejad also introduced a quota system to limit the number of women in universities and measures to prevent them from enrolling in a list of courses considered more appropriate for men. A firm iron grip was retained over academic institutions by the Iranian authorities to the degree of allowing intelligence bodies and state security to supervise disciplinary proceedings in universities.\n\nThe next president who assumed office in 2013, Hassan Rouhani—considered by many as a ‘reformist’-, made some steps to permit the return of several banned academics and students to campuses. Nonetheless, the situation of academic freedom remained critical with hundreds of students still imprisoned and others newly arrested since the election of President Rouhani. By the end of the academic year under the administration of the latter, various restrictions breaching academic freedom and introduced during the time of President Mahmoud Ahmadinejad remained in place.\n\nSeveral international instruments, to which Iran is party and accepted, such as the International Covenant on Economic Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR), the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR), and the UNESCO Convention against Discrimination in Education clearly guarantee the right to education to all people without discrimination. In addition to that, the rights of individuals to freedoms of association, expression, opinion, and assembly and the prohibition of discrimination based on sex, race, religion, ethnicity or political opinion, are further protected by the International Covenant on Civil and political Rights (ICCPR) and the International Convention on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination (CERD).\n\nHowever, students and academics in Iran still face pervasive and routine infringements of their rights based on gender, religion, ethnicity and opinions. In the period stretching from March 2009 to February 2012, 396 cases of students were reportedly banned from their university programs because of their peaceful activism. At least 634 other students were detained by the intelligence and security network. Student activists were suspended, threatened, arrested and prosecuted on a regular basis due to their peaceful criticism of the regime. Iranian officials have also resorted to shutting down hundreds of student publications, gatherings, and independent organizations. Moreover, the intelligence and paramilitary agencies are strongly present in university campuses and sometimes violently confront students through attacking peaceful gatherings or dormitories, which often leads to grave injuries and even the death of many students. Furthermore, the minorities living in the republic of Iran are confronted with systematic discrimination and deprivation in universities. One example illustrating this case is that of the Baha’i community who are prevented from pursuing higher education because of their different religious beliefs. Iranian authorities also specifically punish student activists advocating for ethnic minority rights in harsher ways. The punishments range from violent arrests to heavy sentences including the death sentence. Women are also subject to discrimination at the educational level. The establishment of a quota system to limit female participation in universities is curbing women’s rights. Further restrictions on women’s educational choices are enforced. The issue of gender segregation, which does not always guarantee quality education for women, persists. Academics and teaching personnel are also subject to discrimination with their rights constantly violated. More than a hundred academics were dismissed from universities, because of their dissent against the government and their political views, since the 2009 election. In addition to that, several university professors have been imprisoned for merely expressing peaceful dissent.\n\nA Canadian-Iranian professor of anthropology from Concordia University in Montreal, Homa Hoodfar, was detained in Iran on the 6th of June, 2016. She was interrogated for three months before being locked in a small cell in Evin Prison by the Iranian intelligence service. Evin prison in Iran is referred to as ‘Evin University’ due to the large number of intellectuals detained there. Professor Hoodfar spent 112 days in prison for meddling in affairs of “feminism and security matters.” She was released in September 2016 on “humanitarian grounds” after Canada’s cooperation with officials from Oman, Switzerland and Italy to ensure her release. Canada worked with the latter countries because it cut its direct diplomatic ties with Iran in 2012.\n\nProfessor Hoodfar later reported that even though she was not physically abused, the interrogations were severely psychologically distressing. The questioning would last from 9am to 7pm in a basement, where professor Hoodfar would either be facing a wall or a mirror preventing her from seeing her interrogators. As examples of psychological abuse, the professor revealed that one day, during questioning, Iranian officials played a song from her husband’s funeral that took place two years before, after they had found a clip of it on her iPad. In another instance, they displayed a picture of “her mother standing at her father’s graveside.”\n\n"}
{"id": "20113632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20113632", "title": "Ancestor veneration in China", "text": "Ancestor veneration in China\n\nChinese ancestor worship, or Chinese ancestor veneration, also called the Chinese patriarchal religion, is an aspect of the Chinese traditional religion which revolves around the ritual celebration of the deified ancestors and tutelary deities of people with the same surname organised into lineage societies in ancestral shrines. Ancestors, their ghosts, or spirits, and gods are considered part of \"this world\", that is, they are neither supernatural (in the sense of being outside nature) nor transcendent in the sense of being beyond nature. The ancestors are humans who have become godly beings, beings who keep their individual identities. For this reason, Chinese religion is founded on veneration of ancestors. Ancestors are believed to be a means of connection to the supreme power of Tian as they are considered embodiments or reproducers of the creative order of Heaven.\n\nConfucian philosophy calls for paying respect to one's ancestors, an aspect of filial piety; Zhuo Xinping (2011) views traditional patriarchal religion as the religious organisation complementing the ideology of Confucianism. As the \"bedrock faith of the Chinese\", traditional patriarchal religion influences the religious psychology of all Chinese and has influenced the other religions of China, as it is evident in the worship of founders of temples and schools of thought in Taoism and Chinese Buddhism.\n\nAncestor veneration practices prevail in south China, where lineage bonds are stronger and the patrilineal hierarchy is not based upon seniority, and access to corporate resources held by a lineage is based upon the equality of all the lines of descent; whereas in north China worship of communal deities is prevalent.\n\nSome contemporary scholars in China have adopted the names \"Chinese traditional patriarchal religion\" (中國傳統宗法性宗教 \"Zhōngguó chuántǒng zōngfǎ xìng zōngjiào\") or \"Chinese traditional primordial religion\" (中國傳統原生性宗教 \"Zhōngguó chuántǒng yuánshēng xìng zōngjiào\") to define the traditional religious system organised around the worship of ancestor-gods.\n\nZhang Jin and Yang Chunpeng, based at the Folk Religion Institute and Party School Theory Research Section of Xuanen County, in an article on the China Ethnic and Religious Network define Chinese traditional primordial religion as faith in God (Shangdi)'s original form.\n\nMou Zhongjian defines \"clan-based traditional patriarchal religion\" as \"an orthodox religion that was widely accepted by all classes, and had been practiced for thousands of years in ancient China\". Mou also says that this religion was subordinate to the state, it was \"diverse and inclusive\" and had \"a humanistic spirit that emphasises the social, moral function of religion\", and is closely related to politics. It refers to:\n\nAccording to Zhuo Xinping (2011), Chinese patriarchal religion and Confucianism complemented each other in ancient China, as the Confucian religion traditionally lacked a social religious organisation while traditional patriarchal religion lacked an ideological doctrine.\n\nIn Chinese folk religion, a person is thought to have multiple souls, categorized as \"hun\" and \"po\", commonly associated with yang and yin, respectively. Upon death, \"hun\" and \"po\" separate. Generally, the former ascends into heaven and latter descends into the earth and/or resides within a spirit tablet; however, beliefs concerning the number and nature of souls vary. In accordance with these traditional beliefs, various practices have arisen to address the perceived needs of the deceased.\n\nThe mourning of a loved one usually involves elaborate rituals, which vary according to region and sect. The intensity of the mourning is thought to reflect the quality of relationship one had with the deceased. From the time of Confucius until the 20th century, a three-year mourning period was often prescribed, mirroring the first three years in a child's life when they are utterly dependent upon and loved unconditionally by their parents. These mourning practices would often include wearing sackcloth or simple garb, leaving hair unkempt, eating a restricted diet of congee two times a day, living in a mourning shack placed beside the house, and moaning in pain at certain intervals of the day. It is said that after the death of Confucius his followers engaged in this three-year mourning period to symbolize their commitment to his teachings.\n\nFunerals are considered to be a part of the normal process of family life, serving as a cornerstone in inter-generational traditions. The primary goals, regardless of religious beliefs, are to demonstrate obeisance and provide comfort for the deceased. Other goals include: to protect the descents of the deceased from malevolent spirits and to ensure the proper separation and direction of the deceased's soul into the afterlife.\n\nSome common elements of Chinese funerals include the expression of grief through prolonged, often exaggerated wailing; the wearing of white mortuary clothes by the family of the deceased; a ritual washing of the corpse, followed by its attiring in grave clothes; the transfer of symbolic goods such as money and food from the living to the dead; the preparation and installation of a spirit tablet or the use of a personator, often symbolic. Sometimes, ritual specialists such as Taoist priests or Buddhist monks would be hired to perform specific rites, often accompanied by the playing of music or chanting of scripture to drive away evil spirits.\n\nBurial is often delayed according to wealth; the coffin would remain in the main room of the family home until it has been properly prepared for burial. More traditionally, this delay is pre-determined according to social status: the corpse of a king or emperor would be held in abeyance for seven months; magnates, five; other officers, three; commoners, one.\n\nIn some instances, a \"lucky burial\" can take place several years after the burial. The bones are dug up, washed, dried, and stored in an earthenware jar. After a period of storage, the contents are then interred in their final resting place in a location selected by an augur to optimize the flow of \"qi\". A bad \"qi\" flow could result in a disgruntled spirit who could possibly haunt their descendants.\n\nThe deceased would often be buried with sacrifices, typically things one was thought to be in need of in the afterlife. This was done as a symbolic demonstration of filial piety or grandeur. For the wealthy and powerful, bronze vessels, oracle bones, and human or animal sacrifices often accompanied the deceased into the grave. More common sacrifices included candles and incense, as well as offerings of wine and food.\n\nAfter the funeral, families often install an ancestral tablet at a household altar alongside other deceased ancestors. This act symbolically unifies the ancestors and honors the family lineage. Incense is lit before the altar daily, significant announcements are made before them, and offerings such as favorite foods, beverages, and spirit money are given bi-monthly and on special occasions, such as Qingming Festival and Ghost Festival.\n\nPrayer was usually performed at the household altar in a separate room containing the \"po\" of their ancestors. The eldest male would speak to the altar on a regular basis. In some belief systems where special powers are ascribed to the deceased, he may supplicate the spirit to bless the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "25429108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25429108", "title": "Angelic tongues", "text": "Angelic tongues\n\nAngelic tongues are the languages supposedly used by angels. It usually refers to sung praise in Second Temple period Jewish materials.\n\nSongs of the Sabbath Sacrifice is the principal source for angelic tongues at Qumran. The texts are fragmentary but appear to relate to praise tongues:\n\nIt is not clear whether the angelic tongues are coherent, intelligible to man. However, since Songs of the Sabbath Sacrifice is itself related to sung praise at the Qumran community, there is a parallel with coherent angelic praise tongues in Testament of Job.\n\nThe pseudepigraphical Testament of Job (ca.100 BCE–100CE) contains a conclusion which is believed to relate to the compiling of the hymnbook used by a Therapeutae community. Job gives one of his daughters \"a cord\" (a stringed instrument of some kind?) \nJob’s other daughters likewise took on “the dialect of archons”, “the dialect of those and the “dialect of the cherubim” (T. Job 49:1-50:3). The “cherubim” are also mentioned Songs of the Sabbath Sacrifice as blessing God (4Q403 1 2, 15, cf. 4Q405 20 2, 3). \n\nThere is parallel description of sung prophecy among the Therapeutae in Alexandria by Philo, but no mention there of angelic tongues.\n\nA possible reference to Jewish practices of angelic tongues is 1Co13:1 \"If I speak in the tongues of men and of angels, but have not love, I am a noisy gong or a clanging cymbal.\" The distinction \"of men\" and \"of angels\" may suggests that a distinction was known to the Corinthians. If a distinction is intended then 1Co14:10 \"There are doubtless many different languages in the world, and none is without meaning\" may imply that \"tongues of men\" were intelligible, whereas 1Co14:2 For one who speaks in a tongue speaks not to men but to God; for no one understands him, but he utters mysteries in the Spirit.\" refers to angelic tongues. The problem with this is that the \"angelic\" tongues documented at Qumran and among the Therapeutae appear to be inspired, but coherent and intelligible, sung praise. Against this is the view of Dunn that \"It is evident then that Paul thinks of glossolalia as language\". \n"}
{"id": "1392096", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1392096", "title": "Bad faith", "text": "Bad faith\n\nBad faith (Latin: \"mala fides\") is double mindedness or double heartedness in duplicity, fraud, or deception. It may involve intentional deceit of others, or self-deception.\n\nThe expression \"bad faith\" is associated with \"double heartedness\", which is also translated as \"double mindedness\". A bad faith belief may be formed through self-deception, being double minded, or \"of two minds\", which is associated with faith, belief, attitude, and loyalty. In the 1913 \"Webster's Dictionary\", bad faith was equated with being double hearted, \"of two hearts\", or \"a sustained form of deception which consists in entertaining or pretending to entertain one set of feelings, and acting as if influenced by another\". The concept is similar to perfidy, or being \"without faith\", in which deception is achieved when one side in a conflict promises to act in good faith (e.g. by raising a flag of surrender) with the intention of breaking that promise once the enemy has exposed himself. After Jean-Paul Sartre's analysis of the concepts of self-deception and bad faith, bad faith has been examined in specialized fields as it pertains to self-deception as two semi-independently acting minds within one mind, with one deceiving the other.\n\nSome examples of bad faith include: a company representative who negotiates with union workers while having no intent of compromising; a prosecutor who argues a legal position that he knows to be false; an insurer who uses language and reasoning which are deliberately misleading in order to deny a claim.\n\nBad faith may be viewed in some cases to not involve deception, as in some kinds of hypochondria with actual physical manifestations. There is a question about the truth or falsity of statements made in bad faith self-deception; for example, if a hypochondriac makes a complaint about their psychosomatic condition, is it true or false?\n\nBad faith has been used as a term of art in diverse areas involving feminism, racial supremacism, political negotiation, insurance claims processing, intentionality, ethics, existentialism, climate change denial, and the law.\n\nIn ordinary usage, bad faith is equated with being of \"two hearts\", or \"a sustained form of deception which consists in entertaining or pretending to entertain one set of feelings, and acting as if influenced by another\", and is synonymous with double mindedness, with disloyalty, double dealing, hypocrisy, infidelity, breach of contract, unfaithfulness, pharisaism (emphasizing or observing the letter but not the spirit of the law, see Doctrine of absurdity), tartuffery (a show or expression of feelings or beliefs one does not actually hold or possess), affectation, bigotry, and lip service.\n\nPeople may hold beliefs in their minds even though they are directly contradicted by facts. These are beliefs held in bad faith. But there is debate as to whether this self-deception is intentional or not.\n\nIn his book \"Being and Nothingness\", the philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre defined bad faith (French: \"mauvaise foi\") as hiding the truth from oneself. The fundamental question about bad faith self-deception is how it is possible. In order for a liar to successfully lie to the victim of the lie, the liar must know that what is being said is false. In order to be successful at lying, the victim must believe the lie to be true. When a person is in bad faith self-deception, the person is both the liar and the victim of the lie. So at the same time the liar, as liar, believes the lie to be false, and as victim believes it to be true. So there is a contradiction in that a person in bad faith self-deception believes something to be true and false at the same time. Sartre observed that \"the one to whom the lie is told and the one who lies are one and the same person, which means that I must know the truth in my capacity as deceiver, though it is hidden from me in my capacity as the one deceived\", adding that \"I must know that truth very precisely, in order to hide it from myself the more carefully—and this not at two different moments of temporality ...\"\n\nVarious commentators and translators have discussed being of two beliefs or faiths in being double hearted or double minded. \"Webster's Dictionary\" equates bad faith with \"being of two hearts\". \"Double hearted\" is translated also as \"double minded\", or \"of two hearts\" or \"of two minds\" or souls, two beliefs, two attitudes, two loyalties, two thinkings, two beliefs, or being as two souls at the same time. The Hebrew Bible and the New Testament Epistles admonish religious believers not to be double minded. In Psalms 119:113, one translation is \"I hate double-minded men, but I love your law.\" The New Living Translation emphasises divided loyalty translating the passage as \"I hate those with divided loyalties, but I love your instructions.\"\n\nThe Epistle of James warns against trusting a person that \"perpetually disagrees with \"himself\"\". \"Taking the Lord's name in vain\", bad faith justifies actions known to be wrong by claiming a direction from God or religious authority to take unethical positions or untrue beliefs, when a person \"should\" know otherwise. Commenting on double mindedness in James 1 and its relation to hypocrisy in Matthew 6:22, Jamieson-Fausset-Brown Bible Commentary says \"double-minded-literally, 'double-souled', the one soul directed towards God, the other to something else ... It is not a hypocrite that is meant, but a fickle, 'wavering' man, as the context shows\". Alford's translation of the Bible uses the ancient Greek literature's \"waverer\" to express \"double minded\".\n\nIn James 1:8, it denotes instability of a cognitive attitude, \"he is a double-minded man, unstable in attitude\". In the God's Word Translation, \"a person who has doubts is thinking about two different things at the same time and can't make up his mind about anything\". Young's Literal Translation translates this as being \"two souled\". In Clarke's Commentary on the Bible, a double-minded man is one of two souls in that one is for earth, and the other for heaven, wishing to secure both worlds at once. Gill's exposition of the Bible refers to asking for one thing and meaning another, honoring in word but not in heart, confused in the mind.\n\nClarke's commentary on the Bible commented on Deuteronomy 26:17 and Jewish theology regarding being double hearted, in that Rabbi Tanchum (fol. 84) remarked, \"Behold, the Scripture exhorts the Israelites, and tells them when they pray, that they should not have two hearts, one for the holy blessed God, and one for something else.\" Clarke comments that \"James refers to those Jews who were endeavoring to incorporate the law with the Gospel, who were divided in their minds and affections, not willing to give up the Levitical rites, and yet unwilling to renounce the Gospel. Such persons could make no progress in Divine things.\"\n\nThe Catholic Church does not consider everyone with heretical views to have bad faith: for example, people who earnestly seek the truth and lead exemplary lives.\n\nFreudian psychoanalysis answers how bad faith self-deception is made possible by postulating an unconscious dimension of our being that is amoral, whereas the conscious is in fact regulated by morality, law, and custom, accomplished by what Freud calls repression. The true desires of the subconscious express themselves as wish fulfillment in dreams, or as an ethical position unconsciously taken to satisfy the wishes of the unconscious mind.\n\nBad faith wish fulfillment is central to the ethics of belief, which discusses questions at the intersection of epistemology, philosophy of mind, psychology, Freudian psychoanalysis, and ethics.\n\nA person who is not lying to himself is authentic. \"Authenticity\" is being faithful to internal rather than external ideas.\n\nBad faith in ethics may be when an unethical position is taken as ethical, and justified by appeal to being forced to that belief as an excuse, e.g., by God or by that person's natural disposition due to genetics, even though facts disconfirm that belief and honesty would require it.\n\nPhenomenology plays a role leading to discussions of bad faith. It has a role in ethics by an analysis of the structure of will, valuing, happiness, and care for others (in empathy and sympathy). Phenomenologist Heidegger discussed care, conscience, and guilt, moving to \"authenticity\", which in turn led to the feminism of Simone de Beauvoir and existentialism of Jean-Paul Sartre, both based on phenomenology's considerations of authenticity and its role in bad faith. Sartre analyzed the logical problem of \"bad faith\" as it relates to authenticity, and where he developed an ontology of value as produced by willing in good faith.\nJean-Paul Sartre and Simone de Beauvoir developed ideas about bad faith into existentialism, using the concepts of bad faith and \"authenticity\" in the ethics of belief. In \"Being and Nothingness\", Sartre begins his discussion of bad faith by raising the question of how bad faith self-delusion is possible. Sartre calls \"bad faith\" a kind of project of self-deception. In order to produce excuses, bad faith first takes a third-person stance toward itself. When it becomes necessary to elude this stance it has made of itself, it then adopts the first-person perspective. In neither case can the deception fully succeed. Without these two facets of existence, if consciousness was unitary and not divisible, as in the indivisible \"I\" in \"I think, therefore I am\", it would be impossible to explain how the very project of self-deception could be possible. The Freudian theory of the unconscious is viewed by Sartre as based on an incoherent view of consciousness, but the project of psychoanalysis as an uncovering of the \"fundamental project\" of an individual's life is considered to be valid.\n\nExistentialist philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre called the belief that there is something intrinsically good in itself, which is inherent in the world as absolute value and is discoverable by people, the \"spirit of seriousness\", which he argued leads to bad faith. He argued that people fall into the spirit of seriousness because they take their values too seriously, and forget that values are contingent, chosen and assigned subjectively. In Sartre's words, \"the spirit of seriousness has two characteristics: it considers values as transcendent \"givens\", independent of human subjectivity, and it transfers the quality of 'desirable' from the ontological structure of things to their simple material constitution.\"\n\nPsychologists have proposed answers as to how bad faith self-delusion can be possible.\n\nA \"tropism\" is an action done without conscious thought. While self-deception may be a tropism, not consciously done, it may be guided by \"projects\" one may set for one's life, such as a desire for personal pleasure, wealth, power, or to get into heaven. For example, a creationist has a project to get into heaven, and a racist with feelings of personal inadequacy may have a project to be superior or to have power over some others. The project may create self-deception without conscious thought, as a tropism creates action without conscious thought. A project may be selfish, and overwhelm reason from facts, though its consequences are not directly intentional. But the project itself may be intentionally sought, and in a selfish way, whence bad faith arises, as a result of selfish or bad intention in choice of project.\n\nA homunculus is a little person (or map of the person) inside a person, and homuncularism is the theory in psychology that there are subsystems of the mind performing different operations; the homuncularist answer to the question as to how bad faith is possible is that one such subunit deceives the other.\n\nIn humanistic psychology, recognition of bad faith in one's own acts by the actor results in guilt and regret.\n\nPsychologists have examined the role of bad faith in psychologists overseeing and directing torture, when they know that it is wrong, e.g., in the Guantanamo detention center.\n\nHypochondria is a kind of bad faith self-deception.\n\nThere is controversy as to whether propositions made in bad faith are true or false, such as when a hypochondriac has a complaint with no physical symptom.\n\nBad faith can exist not only in an individual, but in entire systems of knowledge.\n\nWithin the pseudoscience of racial eugenics, bad faith is proposed to be a motivator for self-defensive action against an objectified race of people to justifiably uphold a desire for racial supremacy; e.g., a minority group of whites who believe that blacks are inferior in bad faith to motivate the preservation of their white-race differences, while their faith is motivated in fear of elimination from within a volatile racial environment. Bad faith racial supremacist's beliefs are studied in African American Studies. In Nazi Germany, companies knowingly competed for the manufacture of efficient ovens for the concentration camps to make money with the manufacturers justified in their actions by self-deception, but \"intentionally\" so as to be in bad faith. A person can intentionally self-deceive by being inauthentic or insincere, as the Nazis organization did in holding their beliefs to justify their eugenics and genocide.\n\nPersons practicing Zen claim not to be subject to the \"bad faith\" in \"self-deception\", since they do not \"explain\" a motivation for action, as a rationalist would; a rationalist must rationalize an irrational desire that is actually rooted in the body and the unconscious as if it were not.\n\nFor philosophers in the Anglo-American analytical tradition statements involving moral values have caused concern because of their similarity to statements about objects and events in the physical world. Compare:\n\nBoth have the same grammatical structure, but the way we might verify the first is quite different from the way we might want to verify the second. We can verify the first statement by observations made in the physical world, but, according to David Hume, no amount of physical world observation can verify statements of the second type. Hume's view is summarized as \"you can not derive ought from is\". Whereas statements of the first type must be true or false, some philosophers have argued that moral statement are neither true nor false. Richard M. Hare, for example, argues that moral statements are in fact imperatives (commands). For him the statement \"littering is wrong\" means \"do not litter\", and \"do not litter\" is neither true nor false.\n\nIn sharp contrast to people like Hare, J.L. Mackie contended that moral statements are false. Mackie's view discomforts Crispin Wright who says that it \"relegates moral discourse to bad faith\". Wright is not saying that all moral statements are bad faith. What he is saying is that if Mackie is correct, and somebody believes that Mackie is correct, then that person will be guilty of bad faith whenever he makes a moral statement.\n\nIn law, there are inconsistent definitions of bad faith, with one definition much more broad than used in other fields of study discussed in the above sections. \"Black's Law Dictionary\" equates fraud with bad faith. But one goes to jail for fraud, and not necessarily for bad faith. The Duhaime online law dictionary similarly defines bad faith broadly as \"intent to deceive\", and \"a person who intentionally tries to deceive or mislead another in order to gain some advantage\". A Canadian labor arbitrator wrote, in one case, that bad faith is related to rationality in reasoning, as it is used in other fields, but is ill-defined in the law.\nWhat was called \"Canada's best judicial definition of 'bad faith by \"Duhaime's Legal Dictionary\" is similarly more consistent with use in other fields discussed above.\n\nDuhaime also refers to another description, \"... bad faith refers to a subjective state of mind ... motivated by ill will ... or even \"sinister purposes\".\"\n\nThe current standard legal definition of \"bad faith\" in the law of England and Wales is that of Lindsay J in Gromax Plasticulture Ltd. v. Don and Low Nonwovens Ltd: \"Plainly it includes dishonesty and, as I would hold, includes also some dealings which fall short of the standards of acceptable commercial behaviour observed by reasonable and experienced men in the particular area being examined. Parliament has wisely not attempted to explain in detail what is or is not bad faith in this context; how far a dealing must so fall-short in order to amount to bad faith is a matter best left to be adjudged not by some paraphrase by the Courts (which leads to the danger of the Courts then construing not the Act but the paraphrase) but by reference to the words of the Act and upon a regard to all material surrounding circumstances.\"\n\nInsurance bad faith is a tort claim that an insured may have against an insurer for its bad acts, e.g. intentionally denying a claim by giving spurious citations of exemptions in the policy to mislead an insured, adjusting the claim in a dishonest manner, failing to quickly process a claim, or other intentional misconduct in claims processing. Insurance bad faith has been broadened beyond use in other fields to include total inaction, a refusal to respond to a claim in any way.\n\nCourts can award punitive or exemplary damages, over and above actual damages against any insurance company which is found to have adjusted a claim in bad faith; the damages may be awarded with the aim of deterring such behavior among insurers in general, and may far exceed the amount of the damage due under the insurance policy. In Canada, one case of this type resulted in a record punitive award of CAD $1 million when an insurance company pressed a claim for arson even after its own experts and adjusters had come to the conclusion that the fire was accidental; the company was advised by legal counsel that the desperate insured parties would be willing to settle for much less than what they were owed.\n\nCentral to feminism is the idea that women are systematically subordinated, and bad faith exists when women surrender their agency to this subordination, e.g., acceptance of religious beliefs that a man is the dominant party in a marriage by the will of God; Simone de Beauvoir labels such women \"mutilated\" and \"immanent\". Simone de Beauvoir developed modern conceptions of bad faith and modern feminism together in her book \"The Second Sex\".\n\nBad faith is important to the concept of original position in John Rawls' theory of justice, where mutual commitment of the parties requires that the parties cannot choose and agree to principles in bad faith, in that they have to be able, not just to live with and grudgingly accept, but to sincerely endorse the principles of justice; a party cannot take risks with principles he knows he will have difficulty voluntarily complying with, or they would be making an agreement in bad faith which is ruled out by the conditions of the original position.\n\nBad faith is a concept in negotiation theory whereby parties pretend to reason to reach settlement, but have no intention to do so, for example, one political party may pretend to negotiate, with no intention to compromise, for political effect.\n\nBad faith in political science and political psychology refers to negotiating strategies in which there is no real intention to reach compromise, or a model of information processing. The \"inherent bad faith model\" of information processing is a theory in political psychology that was first put forth by Ole Holsti to explain the relationship between U.S. Secretary of State John Foster Dulles' beliefs and his model of information processing. It is the most widely studied model of one's opponent. A state is presumed to be implacably hostile, and contra-indicators of this are ignored. They are dismissed as propaganda ploys or signs of weakness. Examples are John Foster Dulles' position regarding the Soviet Union, or Israel's initial position on the Palestinian Liberation Organization.\n\nBad faith is associated with being double minded, or of divided loyalty. (See theology section above.)\n\nThe philosophy of loyalty examines unchosen loyalties, e.g., one does not choose one's family or country, but when there is excessive wrongdoing, there is a general unwillingness to question these unchosen loyalties, and this exhibits bad faith as a type of lack of integrity; once we have such loyalties, we are resistant to their scrutiny and self-defensively discount challenges to them in bad faith. In the philosophy of patriotism (loyalty to one's country) bad faith is hiding from oneself the true source of some of one's patriotic beliefs, such as when one fights for a racist totalitarian dictatorship against a free and egalitarian democracy.\n\n"}
{"id": "11450801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11450801", "title": "CONWIP", "text": "CONWIP\n\nCONWIP (CONstant work in process) are pull-oriented production control systems. Such systems can be classified as pull and push systems (Spearman et al. 1990). In a push system, the production order is scheduled and the material is pushed into the production line. In a pull system, the start of each product assembly process is triggered by the completion of another at the end of production line. This pull-variant is known for its ease of implementation.\n\nCONWIP is a kind of single-stage kanban system and is also a hybrid push-pull system. While Kanban systems maintain tighter control of system WIP through the individual cards at each workstation, CONWIP systems are easier to implement and adjust, since only one set of system cards is used to manage system WIP. CONWIP uses cards to control the number of WIPs. For example, no part is allowed to enter the system without a card (authority). After a finished part is completed at the last workstation, a card is transferred to the first workstation and a new part is pushed into the sequential process route. In their paper, Spearman et al. (1990) used a simulation to make a comparison among the CONWIP, kanban and push systems, and found that CONWIP systems can achieve a lower WIP level than kanban systems.\n\nIn a CONWIP system, a card is shared by all kinds of products. However, Duenyas (1994) proposed a dedicated card control policy in CONWIP and he stated that this policy could perform as a multiple chain closed queuing network.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4766224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4766224", "title": "Causal plane", "text": "Causal plane\n\nCausal plane is a term used in Neo-Theosophy, some contemporary Vedanta, the New Age, (especially some channelled communications), and sometimes Occultism, to describe a high spiritual plane of existence, i.e. (hyperplane, which even the physical is). However there is great variation between the different definitions.\n\nThe Neo-theosophy of Annie Besant and C. W. Leadbeater replaced Blavatsky's \"Higher Manas\" principle with the \"Higher Mental\", \"Abstract Mind\" (as opposed to Lower Mental or \"Concrete Mind\"), or Causal Body. The equivalent cosmic plane is the Causal Plane. A detailed description of the Causal Plane, along with the Causal Body, is provided by A. E. Powell, who has compiled information in the works of Besant and Leadbeater in a series of books on each of the subtle bodies.\n\nThe Neo-theosphical concept of Causal Plane proved very influential both in India (via the Adyar branch of Theosophy) and in the New Age, via Alice Bailey.\n\nSatguru Sivaya Subramuniyaswami incorporates Theosophical ideas into the traditional Hindu Vedic cosmology, when he describes three worlds of existence (triloka) as \"Bhuloka\" or physical plane, \"Antarloka\" or the subtle or astral plane, and \"Sivaloka\" (\"World of Siva\") or the causal plane or Karanaloka, the world of the Gods and highly developed souls. About this latter he says\n\nThe causal plane is the world of light and blessedness, the highest of heavenly regions, extolled in the scriptures of all faiths. It is the foundation of existence, the source of visions, the point of conception, the apex of creation. The causal plane is the abode of Lord Siva and His entourage of Mahadevas and other highly evolved souls who exist in their own self-effulgent form—radiant bodies of centillions of quantum light particles.\n\nHe further says that this region, present as the clear white light that illumines the mind, can be accessed through the three higher chakras, the vishuddha, ajna and sahasrara \n\nAlthough Neo-theosophy presents the sequence Physical-Astral-Mental-Causal, in the jargon of some astral travelling teachings, the causal plane is the one just above the astral plane. According to the Astral Voyage website (see glossary) this is the region where memories and karmic patterns are stored, and where a practitioner can access information regarding the past and future.\n\nThe complex metaphysics of the Channelled entity Michael includes a description of the universe in terms of seven planes. These are the Physical plane, the Astral plane, the Causal plane, the Akashic plane, the Mental plane, the Messianic plane, and the Buddhaic plane. Here the Causal plane is the third plane of creation, and its medium is concrete intellectual energy. In The Michael Teachings, this is Michael's plane of existence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13459016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13459016", "title": "Cognitive description", "text": "Cognitive description\n\nCognitive description is a term used in psychology to describe the cognitive workings of the human mind.\n\nA cognitive description specifies what information is utilized during a cognitive action, how this information is processed and transformed, what data structures are used, and what behaviour is generated.\n\n"}
{"id": "54230547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54230547", "title": "Concerned Officers Movement", "text": "Concerned Officers Movement\n\nThe Concerned Officers Movement (COM) was an organization of mainly junior officers formed within the U.S. military in the early 1970s whose principal purpose was opposition to the U.S. involvement in the Vietnam War. Very quickly, however, it also found itself fighting for First Amendment rights within the military. It was initiated in the Washington, D.C. area by commissioned officers who were also Vietnam Veterans, but rapidly expanded throughout all branches and many bases of the U.S. military, ultimately playing an influential role in the opposition to the Vietnam War.\n\nCOMs genesis sprang from the participation of Marine Captain Bob Brugger in the November 1969 March on Washington against the Vietnam War. \"The Washington Post\" carried an article about Bob and his wife that caused his superior officers to enter an unsatisfactory mark for loyalty in his fitness report and generated supportive phone calls from other officers. Brugger's opposition to \"blind patriotism\" and his stand against racism at home and in Vietnam had struck a chord with other officers who read the article.\n\nOver several months a group of officers agreed to work together and on March 14, 1970, they participated as \"Officers' Resistance\" in a G.I. Rally for Peace and Justice in Washington, D.C. By the end of March 1970 they had changed their name to the Concerned Officers Movement. Early members who signed the first published newsletter were LT Jim Crawford, USN, CPT Ed Fox, USA, CPT Gerry Giovaniello, USAR, LTJG Tono Hixon, USNR, LTJG Phil Lehman, USNR, LTJG Randy Thomas, USNR; CAPT Larry Wasser, USMC, and CPT Bob Gaines, USAR. Other early members were 1LT Louis Font, a West Point honor graduate, who received extensive national media coverage for his stand against the war and CAPT Mike Mullen, USMCR who was one of the contacts on the organization's first leaflet (see image to right).\n\nCOM's first newsletter, published in April 1970, described the organization's political views:\n\nWhile stating they were \"loyal, responsible military officers\", they supported \"a cease-fire and the rapid disengagement of American troops from Southeast Asia\", opposed the \"preponderant share of national resources devoted to the military\", and called for the \"free expression of dissenting opinion\" within the military.\n\nThe fact that military officers had formed a group openly speaking out against the war and the U.S. military was unprecedented and quickly reached the national media. On June 3, 1970, \"The New York Times\" announced that the \"antiwar movement has reached the United States military officers corps.\" \"Calling themselves the Concerned Officers Movement, about 25 officers based in Washington, most of them Navy men, have banded together to provide a forum for what they say is growing disillusionment among their ranks with the Indochina war.\"\n\nCOM continued to grow and on September 26, 1970, 28 members representing about 250 others on active duty from the Army, Navy, Air Force and Marine Corps held a press conference in Washington, D.C. to announce \"their intention to speak against the war in Vietnam\" and \"to encourage other officers to express antiwar opinions\". Font told the press, \"I reject this war...I have asked myself time and again: 'When the law becomes a crime, consensus and conformity becomes a crime, am I to condone it?' My answer is no.\" Major Albert Braverman, a physician at Walter Reed Army Medical Center, stated that COM had active chapters at the Marine base at Camp Lejeune, NC, at Navy and Marine bases in Norfolk, VA, Pensacola, FL and San Diego, at Army bases at Fort Bragg, NC, and Fort Jackson, SC, at the Air Force base in Grand Forks, ND, and in Iceland and Hawaii. They also read an open letter to Secretary of Defense Melvin Laird demanding an immediate withdrawal from the war written by LTJG John Kent, USN, an Annapolis graduate, all-American wrestler and jet fighter pilot, and signed by 29 officers of the San Diego chapter of COM ranging in rank from Ensign to Lieutenant Commander.\n\nCOM carried out a variety of antiwar activities throughout 1970 and 1971. It published a newsletter, which by the fourth issue was called \"COMmon Sense\", distributing it throughout the armed services. It bought newspaper ads calling for an immediate withdrawal of American forces from Vietnam, wrote leaflets, printed posters and held press conferences. COM's Norfolk Naval Base chapter paid for a billboard outside the base that read Peace Now \n\nInitially, many COM members wanted to stay within the military and felt they had a right to express dissenting views. In fact, their third newsletter argued that responsible dissent \"can and must be allowed to exist in the military, if it is to keep pace with the times in which we live.\" \"We believe that such expressions of our convictions are within our rights, and that in expressing them, we are following our obligations as officers to defend the Constitution.\" The organization felt the armed forces were an insular and hidebound world and explored ways to establish the right of free speech for active duty servicemen, both officers and enlisted.\n\nThe military, however, disagreed and in many cases reprimanded, discharged and transferred COM members soon after their participation became known. Within three weeks of their September 26, 1970 press conference many COM members were facing retaliation. One Navy doctor in the San Diego chapter was discharged on 48 hours' notice after making his membership known. Official military spokespeople blamed budget cutbacks or force reductions, but COM members were told privately they were being discharged due to their membership. \"The New York Times\" quoted a Pentagon spokesman who denied the existence of a \"purge\" of antiwar officers, but then went on to admit the military did get concerned when these officers \"go public\". He argued that public statements \"[d]raw the radicals to them like bees to honey\", making them \"duck soup for radicals\" and raising \"questions about the officers' reliability.\" Ironically, some members who did want to get out were forced to stay in the military against their will and given orders transferring them to remote military bases like Adak, Alaska or even Vietnam.\n\nAs a result, COM had a high turnover rate as the military discharged or transferred its members. This, combined with its focus on active duty officers, meant the national organization was relatively short-lived, tapering off considerably by the end of 1971.\n\nIn early 1971 COM created quite a stir by holding press conferences on both coasts calling for an investigation into the military's top brass for possible war crimes. Under the auspices of The National Committee for a Citizens Commission of Inquiry on U.S. War Crimes in Vietnam (Citizens Commission of Inquiry), COM held press conferences on January 12 in Washington, D.C. and January 20 in Los Angeles calling for an investigation into the \"responsibility for war crimes of key military figures\", including Generals William Westmoreland and Creighton Abrams, and Admiral Elmo Zumwalt. While formally they were only calling for an investigation, they presented evidence of war crimes and catastrophic environmental damage, leaving the impression they were accusing their own commanders of war crimes. The Washington, D.C. COM members involved were CPT Robert Master, USA, CPT Grier Merwin, USA, Fox, Font and LTJG Peter Dunkelberger, USN. In Los Angeles were LT Norman Banks, USAF, LTJG Ted Shallcross, USN, LT James Skelly, USN, and Kent.\n\nLater that same year COM members used the military's own practice of encouraging the wearing of uniforms to religious services to conduct antiwar demonstrations in uniform, a prohibited activity under military regulations. On April 23, 1971, ignoring warnings from higher ups that their actions would be considered a political demonstration, COM organized a memorial service at Washington's National Cathedral involving more than 250 officers in uniform honoring all the war dead, on both sides of the war. On May 2, 45 officers and enlisted men from the San Diego Chapter wore their uniforms to a similar antiwar \"religious\" event in Exposition Park in Los Angeles led by a prominent antiwar Episcopal minister, George Regas. As one of the men who participated later recalled in his memoir: \"Thus, with one of our men playing the haunting lament on his bugle that is heard at military funerals, we marched with [a] coffin draped with the flags of the Viet Cong, North Vietnam, South Vietnam, and the United States.\" No one was ever reprimanded or punished for these actions, probably because the military decided it would be better to ignore the whole thing and pretend it never happened.\n\nThe San Diego COM, located in the principal homeport of the Pacific Fleet, may have been the most active chapter and was certainly the longest lasting, continuing actively until late 1973. The Chapter was initiated by Kent and local antiwar activist Jeannie Boyle and formally founded in July 1970 by Kent, LT Harold Appel, USN, Skelly and Shallcross. Very quickly it broadened its outreach to include enlisted men and women and by 1972 had changed its name to Concerned Military. On May 15, 1971, which they called \"Armed Farces Day\", they hosted the touring FTA \"political vaudeville\" antiwar show, known to most G.I.'s as the \"Fuck The Army\" Show, featuring Jane Fonda, Donald Sutherland, Peter Boyle, Dick Gregory, and Country Joe McDonald. The show, held in the auditorium of San Diego High School, was a tremendous success with a capacity crowd of over 2,400 enthusiastic sailors and marines, and contributed to the growth and reputation of the chapter.\n\nThey also joined with other antiwar activists in major efforts to mobilize opposition to the departure for Vietnam of several aircraft carriers. The first of these projects attracted antiwar activists from all over California and was aimed at trying to keep the USS \"Constellation\" from sailing. The project was initiated by a group called San Diego Nonviolent Action, which united with COM to focus on the role of aircraft carriers. They had the initial goal of stopping the \"Constellation\" from returning to Vietnam through education and non-violent activity like a blockade or by preventing military personnel from getting to the naval base. Very quickly, this effort expanded into a multi-faceted campaign.\n\nAs veteran antiwar activists, including Joan Baez and David Harris, became involved, Harris suggested organizing a citywide referendum on whether the Constellation should set sail. This Constellation Vote became a major antiwar campaign over several months that led to a citywide straw vote in late September 1971 with 54,721 votes counted. Over 82% of voters elected to keep the ship home, including 73% of the military personnel who voted. While not a \"real\" vote, the impact on public opinion was appreciable. Even an unsympathetic observer deemed the overall effort to stop the Constellation \"an impressive campaign\", and the commander-in-chief of the Pacific Fleet was quoted as saying \"never was there such a concerted effort to entice American servicemen from their posts.\"\n\nA considerable amount of research was conducted into the role of aircraft carriers in modern warfare by Professor William Watson of MIT who was then a visiting Professor of History at UC San Diego. He argued in a widely distributed pamphlet that aircraft carriers had become weapons \"used to crush popular uprisings and to bully the weaker and poorer countries of the world.\"\n\nThe involvement of large numbers of antiwar officers and enlisted men created significant debate in the traditionally pro-military town. It also permitted creative methods not normally available to other antiwar groups, such as the CONSTELLATION STAY HOME FOR PEACE banner frequently seen being towed over the city by recently retired navy flight instructor LT John Huyler, and the Constellation Vote stickers found everywhere on board the USS \"Constellation\", including in the captain's personal bathroom. Bathroom stickers weren't the only complication the Captain had to deal with. Over 1,300 of the ship's sailors signed a petition requesting the FTA Show be allowed onboard. The captain refused this request but then got himself in hot water by intercepting and destroying 2,500 pieces of U.S. mail sent by antiwar activists to crewmembers. Faced with a possible court of inquiry and health problems, the captain was removed from command before the ship sailed.\n\nWhen the \"Constellation\" actually did sail for Vietnam, no visible blockade occurred but nine of its crew publicly refused to go and took sanctuary in a local Catholic church, Christ the King, with the support of COM members and other activists. The \"Connie 9\" as they were quickly dubbed, were soon arrested in an early morning raid by US Marshals and flown back to the ship, but within weeks were honorably discharged from the navy. This action led to other Stop Our Ship (SOS) campaigns in San Diego and other California ports in a wider effort to prevent navy ships from heading to Southeast Asia. \"A strong resistance movement within the Seventh Fleet was led by COM and its local chapter.\"\n\nAt its height, COM had as many as 28 chapters in all the military branches and has been estimated to have \"had approximately 3,000 members, including many supporters from the enlisted ranks.\" At one point it even had a chapter in the Pentagon. It had no formal leadership, although various people stepped forward at different times to play central roles. COM did not attract the media attention as dramatically as its more well-known partner and ally, Vietnam Veterans Against the War, but it played a key and underappreciated role in the antiwar movement of the early 1970s. The fact that officers not only resisted the war, but spoke out publicly and formed a significant organization, speaks to the depth of the anti-Vietnam War and anti-U.S. military sentiment in the U.S. at the time.\n\n"}
{"id": "797610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=797610", "title": "Contrast ratio", "text": "Contrast ratio\n\nThe contrast ratio is a property of a display system, defined as the ratio of the luminance of the brightest color (white) to that of the darkest color (black) that the system is capable of producing. A high contrast ratio is a desired aspect of any display. It has similarities with dynamic range.\n\nThere is no official, standardized way to measure contrast ratio for a system or its parts, nor is there a standard for defining \"Contrast Ratio\" that is accepted by any standards organization so ratings provided by different manufacturers of display devices are not necessarily comparable to each other due to differences in method of measurement, operation, and unstated variables. Manufacturers have traditionally favored measurement methods that isolate the device from the system, whereas other designers have more often taken the effect of the room into account. An ideal room would absorb all the light reflecting from a projection screen or emitted by a cathode ray tube, and the only light seen in the room would come from the display device. With such a room, the contrast ratio of the image would be the same as the contrast ratio of the device. Real rooms reflect some of the light back to the displayed image, lowering the contrast ratio seen in the image.\n\nStatic contrast ratio is the luminosity ratio comparing the brightest and darkest color the system is capable of producing simultaneously at any instant of time, while dynamic contrast ratio is the luminosity ratio comparing the brightest and darkest color the system is capable of producing over time (while the picture is moving). Moving from a system that displays a static motionless image to a system that displays a dynamic, changing picture slightly complicates the definition of the contrast ratio, due to the need to take into account the extra temporal dimension to the measuring process.\n\nMany display devices favor the use of the \"full on/full off\" method of measurement, as it cancels out the effect of the room and results in an ideal ratio. Equal proportions of light reflect from the display to the room and back in both \"black\" and \"white\" measurements, as long as the room stays the same. This will inflate the light levels of both measurements proportionally, leaving the black to white luminance ratio unaffected.\n\nSome manufacturers have gone as far as using different device parameters for the three tests, even further inflating the calculated contrast ratio. With DLP projectors, one method to do this is to enable the clear sector of the color filter wheel for the \"on\" part and disable it for the \"off\" part This practice is rather dubious, as it will be impossible to reproduce such contrast ratios with any useful image content.\n\nAnother measure is the \"ANSI contrast\", in which the measurement is done with a checker board patterned test image where the black and white luminosity values are measured simultaneously. This is a more realistic measure of system capability, but includes the potential of including the effects of the room into the measurement, if the test is not performed in a room that is close to ideal.\n\nIt is useful to note that the \"full on/full off\" method effectively measures the dynamic contrast ratio of a display, while the \"ANSI contrast\" measures the static contrast ratio.\n\nA notable recent development in LCD technology is dynamic contrast (DC), also called advanced contrast ratio (ACR) and various other designations. When there is a need to display a dark image, a display that supports dynamic contrast underpowers the backlight lamp (or decreases the aperture of the projector's lens using an iris), but proportionately amplifies the transmission through the LCD panel; this gives the benefit of realizing the potential static contrast ratio of the LCD panel in dark scenes when the image is watched in a dark room. The drawback is that if a dark scene contains small areas of superbright light, the resulting image will be over exposed.\n\nThe trick for the display is to determine how much of the highlights may be unnoticeably blown out in a given image under the given ambient lighting conditions.\n\nBrightness, as it is most often used in marketing literature, refers to the emitted luminous intensity on screen, measured in candela per square metre (cd/m). The higher the number, the brighter the screen.\n\nIt is also common to market only the dynamic contrast ratio capability of a display (when it is better than its static contrast ratio only on paper), which should not be directly compared to the static contrast ratio. A plasma display with a 4,000,000:1 static contrast ratio will show superior contrast to an LCD (with LED or CCFL backlight) with 30,000,000:1 dynamic and 20,000:1 static contrast ratio when the input signal contains a full range of brightnesses from 0 to 100% simultaneously. They will, however, be on par when input signal ranges only from 0 to 20% brightness.\n\nIn marketing literature, contrast ratios for emissive (as opposed to reflective) displays are always measured under the optimum condition of a room in total darkness. In typical viewing situations, the contrast ratio is significantly lower due to the reflection of light from the surface of the display, making it harder to distinguish between different devices with very high contrast ratios. How much the room light reduces the contrast ratio depends on the luminance of the display, as well as the amount of light reflecting off the display.\n\nA clean print at a typical movie theater may have a contrast ratio of 500:1, a transmissive digital projector is around 200:1, and a reflective digital projector (i.e. DLP) is around 500:1 under nearly ideal circumstances. A modern computer LCD monitor is typically at 1000:1, and TVs might be over 4000:1. Dynamic contrast ratio is usually measured at factory with two panels (one versus another) of the same model as each panel will have an inherent dark and light (hot) spot. Static is usually measured with the same screen showing half screen full bright vs half screen full dark. This usually results in a lower ratio as brightness will creep into the dark area of the screen thus giving a higher luminance.\n\n"}
{"id": "81931", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81931", "title": "Coordinate system", "text": "Coordinate system\n\nIn geometry, a coordinate system is a system that uses one or more numbers, or coordinates, to uniquely determine the position of the points or other geometric elements on a manifold such as Euclidean space. The order of the coordinates is significant, and they are sometimes identified by their position in an ordered tuple and sometimes by a letter, as in \"the \"x\"-coordinate\". The coordinates are taken to be real numbers in elementary mathematics, but may be complex numbers or elements of a more abstract system such as a commutative ring. The use of a coordinate system allows problems in geometry to be translated into problems about numbers and \"vice versa\"; this is the basis of analytic geometry.\n\nThe simplest example of a coordinate system is the identification of points on a line with real numbers using the \"number line\". In this system, an arbitrary point \"O\" (the \"origin\") is chosen on a given line. The coordinate of a point \"P\" is defined as the signed distance from \"O\" to \"P\", where the signed distance is the distance taken as positive or negative depending on which side of the line \"P\" lies. Each point is given a unique coordinate and each real number is the coordinate of a unique point.\nThe prototypical example of a coordinate system is the Cartesian coordinate system. In the plane, two perpendicular lines are chosen and the coordinates of a point are taken to be the signed distances to the lines. \n\nIn three dimensions, three mutually orthogonal planes are chosen and the three coordinates of a point are the signed distances to each of the planes. This can be generalized to create \"n\" coordinates for any point in \"n\"-dimensional Euclidean space.\n\nDepending on the direction and order of the coordinate axes, the three-dimensional system may be a right-handed or a left-handed system. This is one of many coordinate systems.\n\nAnother common coordinate system for the plane is the \"polar coordinate system\". A point is chosen as the \"pole\" and a ray from this point is taken as the \"polar axis\". For a given angle θ, there is a single line through the pole whose angle with the polar axis is θ (measured counterclockwise from the axis to the line). Then there is a unique point on this line whose signed distance from the origin is \"r\" for given number \"r\". For a given pair of coordinates (\"r\", θ) there is a single point, but any point is represented by many pairs of coordinates. For example, (\"r\", θ), (\"r\", θ+2π) and (−\"r\", θ+π) are all polar coordinates for the same point. The pole is represented by (0, θ) for any value of θ. \n\nThere are two common methods for extending the polar coordinate system to three dimensions. In the cylindrical coordinate system, a \"z\"-coordinate with the same meaning as in Cartesian coordinates is added to the \"r\" and \"θ\" polar coordinates giving a triple (\"r\", \"θ\", \"z\"). Spherical coordinates take this a step further by converting the pair of cylindrical coordinates (\"r\", \"z\") to polar coordinates (\"ρ\", \"φ\") giving a triple (\"ρ\", \"θ\", \"φ\").\n\nA point in the plane may be represented in \"homogeneous coordinates\" by a triple (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") where \"x\"/\"z\" and \"y\"/\"z\" are the Cartesian coordinates of the point. This introduces an \"extra\" coordinate since only two are needed to specify a point on the plane, but this system is useful in that it represents any point on the projective plane without the use of infinity. In general, a homogeneous coordinate system is one where only the ratios of the coordinates are significant and not the actual values.\n\nSome other common coordinate systems are the following:\n\nThere are ways of describing curves without coordinates, using intrinsic equations that use invariant quantities such as curvature and arc length. These include:\n\nCoordinates systems are often used to specify the position of a point, but they may also be used to specify the position of more complex figures such as lines, planes, circles or spheres. For example, Plücker coordinates are used to determine the position of a line in space. When there is a need, the type of figure being described is used to distinguish the type of coordinate system, for example the term \"line coordinates\" is used for any coordinate system that specifies the position of a line.\n\nIt may occur that systems of coordinates for two different sets of geometric figures are equivalent in terms of their analysis. An example of this is the systems of homogeneous coordinates for points and lines in the projective plane. The two systems in a case like this are said to be \"dualistic\". Dualistic systems have the property that results from one system can be carried over to the other since these results are only different interpretations of the same analytical result; this is known as the \"principle of duality\".\n\nBecause there are often many different possible coordinate systems for describing geometrical figures, it is important to understand how they are related. Such relations are described by \"coordinate transformations\" which give formulas for the coordinates in one system in terms of the coordinates in another system. For example, in the plane, if Cartesian coordinates (\"x\", \"y\") and polar coordinates (\"r\", \"θ\") have the same origin, and the polar axis is the positive \"x\" axis, then the coordinate transformation from polar to Cartesian coordinates is given by \"x\" = \"r\" cos\"θ\" and \"y\" = \"r\" sin\"θ\".\n\nWith every bijection from the space to itself two coordinate transformations can be associated:\n\nFor example, in 1D, if the mapping is a translation of 3 to the right, the first moves the origin from 0 to 3, so that the coordinate of each point becomes 3 less, while the second moves the origin from 0 to −3, so that the coordinate of each point becomes 3 more.\n\nIn two dimensions, if one of the coordinates in a point coordinate system is held constant and the other coordinate is allowed to vary, then the resulting curve is called a coordinate curve. In the Cartesian coordinate system the coordinate curves are, in fact, straight lines, thus coordinate lines. Specifically, they are the lines parallel to one of the coordinate axes. For other coordinate systems the coordinates curves may be general curves. For example, the coordinate curves in polar coordinates obtained by holding \"r\" constant are the circles with center at the origin. Coordinates systems for Euclidean space other than the Cartesian coordinate system are called curvilinear coordinate systems. This procedure does not always make sense, for example there are no coordinate curves in a homogeneous coordinate system.\nIn three-dimensional space, if one coordinate is held constant and the other two are allowed to vary, then the resulting surface is called a coordinate surface. For example, the coordinate surfaces obtained by holding ρ constant in the spherical coordinate system are the spheres with center at the origin. In three-dimensional space the intersection of two coordinate surfaces is a coordinate curve. In the Cartesian coordinate system we may speak of coordinate planes.\n\nSimilarly, coordinate hypersurfaces are the -dimensional spaces resulting from fixing a single coordinate of an \"n\"-dimensional coordinate system.\n\nThe concept of a \"coordinate map\", or \"coordinate chart\" is central to the theory of manifolds. A coordinate map is essentially a coordinate system for a subset of a given space with the property that each point has exactly one set of coordinates. More precisely, a coordinate map is a homeomorphism from an open subset of a space \"X\" to an open subset of R. It is often not possible to provide one consistent coordinate system for an entire space. In this case, a collection of coordinate maps are put together to form an atlas covering the space. A space equipped with such an atlas is called a \"manifold\" and additional structure can be defined on a manifold if the structure is consistent where the coordinate maps overlap. For example, a differentiable manifold is a manifold where the change of coordinates from one coordinate map to another is always a differentiable function.\n\nIn geometry and kinematics, coordinate systems are used not only to describe the (linear) position of points, but also to describe the angular position of axes, planes, and rigid bodies. In the latter case, the orientation of a second (typically referred to as \"local\") coordinate system, fixed to the node, is defined based on the first (typically referred to as \"global\" or \"world\" coordinate system). For instance, the orientation of a rigid body can be represented by an orientation matrix, which includes, in its three columns, the Cartesian coordinates of three points. These points are used to define the orientation of the axes of the local system; they are the tips of three unit vectors aligned with those axes.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33964621", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33964621", "title": "Counter-mapping", "text": "Counter-mapping\n\nCounter-mapping refers to efforts to map \"against dominant power structures, to further seemingly progressive goals\". The term was coined by Nancy Peluso in 1995 to describe the commissioning of maps by forest users in Kalimantan, Indonesia, as a means of contesting state maps of forest areas that typically undermined indigenous interests. The resultant counter-hegemonic maps had the ability to strengthen forest users' resource claims. There are numerous expressions closely related to counter-mapping: ethnocartography, alternative cartography, mapping-back, counter-hegemonic mapping, and public participatory mapping. Moreover, the terms: critical cartography, subversive cartography, bio-regional mapping, and remapping are sometimes used interchangeably with counter-mapping, but in practice encompass much more.\n\nWhilst counter-mapping still primarily refers to indigenous cartographic efforts, it is increasingly being applied to non-indigenous mapping initiatives in economically developed countries. Such counter-mapping efforts have been facilitated by processes of neoliberalism, and technological democratisation. Examples of counter-mapping include attempts to demarcate and protect traditional territories, community mapping, Public Participatory Geographical Information Systems, and mapping by a relatively weak state to counter the resource claims of a stronger state. The power of counter-maps to advocate policy change in a bottom-up manner led commentators to affirm that counter-mapping should be viewed as a tool of governance.\n\nDespite its emancipatory potential, counter-mapping has not gone without criticism. There is a tendency for counter-mapping efforts to overlook the knowledge of women, minorities, and other vulnerable, disenfranchised groups. From this perspective, counter-mapping is only empowering for a small subset of society, whilst others become further marginalised.\n\nNancy Peluso, professor of forest policy, coined the term 'counter-mapping' in 1995, having examined the implementation of two forest mapping strategies in Kalimantan. One set of maps belonged to state forest managers, and the international financial institutions that supported them, such as the World Bank. This strategy recognised mapping as a means of protecting local claims to territory and resources to a government that had previously ignored them. The other set of maps had been created by Indonesian NGOs, who often contract international experts to assist with mapping village territories. The goal of the second set of maps was to co-opt the cartographic conventions of the Indonesian state, to legitimise the claims by the Dayak people, indigenous to Kalimantan, to the rights to forest use. Counter-mappers in Kalimantan have acquired GIS technologies, satellite technology, and computerised resource management tools, consequently making the Indonesian state vulnerable to counter-maps. As such, counter-mapping strategies in Kalimantan have led to successful community action to block, and protest against, oil palm plantations and logging concessions imposed by the central government.\n\nIt must, however, be recognised that counter-mapping projects existed long before coinage of the term. Counter-maps are rooted in map art practices that date to the early 20th century; in the mental maps movement of the 1960s; in indigenous and bioregional mapping; and parish mapping.\n\nIn 1985, the charity Common Ground launched the Parish Maps Project, a bottom-up initiative encouraging local people to map elements of the environment valued by their parish. Since then, more than 2,500 English parishes have made such maps. Parish mapping projects aim to put every local person in an 'expert' role. Clifford exemplifies this notion, affirming: \"making a parish map is about creating a community expression of values, and about beginning to assert ideas for involvement. It is about taking the place in your own hands\". The final map product is typically an artistic artefact, usually painted, and often displayed in village halls or schools. By questioning the biases of cartographic conventions and challenging predominant power effects of mapping, The Parish Maps Project is an early example of what Peluso went on to term 'counter-mapping'\n\nThe development of counter-mapping can be situated within the neoliberal political-economic restructuring of the state. Prior to the 1960s, equipping a map-making enterprise was chiefly the duty of a single agency, funded by the national government. In this sense, maps have conventionally been the products of privileged knowledges. However, processes of neoliberalism, predominantly since the late 1970s, have reconfigured the state's role in the cartographic project. Neoliberalism denotes an emphasis on markets and minimal states, whereby individual choice is perceived to have replaced the mass-production of commodities. The fact that citizens are now performing cartographic functions that were once exclusively state-controlled can be partially explained through a shift from \"roll-back neoliberalism\", in which the state dismantled some of its functions, to \"roll-out neoliberalism\", in which new modes of operating have been constructed. In brief, the state can be seen to have \"hollowed out\" and delegated some of its mapping power to citizens.\n\nGovernmentality refers to a particular form of state power that is exercised when citizens self-discipline by acquiescing to state knowledge. Historically, cartography has been a fundamental governmentality strategy, a technology of power, used for surveillance and control. Competing claimants and boundaries made no appearance on state-led maps. This links to Foucault's notion of \"subjugated knowledges\" - ones that did not rise to the top, or were disqualified. However, through neoliberalising processes, the state has retracted from performing some of its cartographic functions. Consequently, rather than being passive recipients of top-down map distribution, people now have the opportunity to claim sovereignty over the mapping process. In this new regime of neoliberal cartographic governmentality the \"insurrection of subjugated knowledges\" occurs, as counter-mapping initiatives incorporate previously marginalised voices.\n\nIn response to technological change, predominantly since the 1980s, cartography has increasingly been democratised. The wide availability of high-quality location information has enabled mass-market cartography based on Global Positioning System receivers, home computers, and the internet. The fact that civilians are using technologies which were once elitist led Brosius \"et al\". to assert that counter-mapping involves \"stealing the master's tools\". Nevertheless, numerous early counter-mapping projects successfully utilised manual techniques, and many still use them. For instance, in recent years, the use of simple sketch mapping approaches has been revitalised, whereby maps are made on the ground, using natural materials. Similarly, the use of scale model constructions and felt boards, as means of representing cartographic claims of different groups, have become increasingly popular. Consequently, Wood \"et al.\" assert that counter-mappers can \"make gateau out of technological crumbs\".\n\nIn recent years, Public Participation Geographical Information Systems (PPGIS) have attempted to take the power of the map out of the hands of the cartographic elite, putting it into the hands of the people. For instance, Kyem designed a PPGIS method termed Exploratory Strategy for Collaboration, Management, Allocation, and Planning (ESCMAP). The method sought to integrate the concerns and experiences of three rural communities in the Ashanti Region of Ghana into official forest management practices. Kyem concluded that, notwithstanding the potential of PPGIS, it is possible that the majority of the rich and powerful people in the area would object to some of the participatory uses of GIS. For example, loggers in Ghana affirmed that the PPGIS procedures were too open and democratic. Thus, despite its democratising potential, there are barriers to its implementation. More recently, Wood \"et al\". disputed the notion of PPGIS entirely, affirming that it is \"scarcely GIS, intensely hegemonic, hardly public, and anything but participatory\".\n\nGovernance makes problematic state-centric notions of regulation, recognising that there has been a shift to power operating across several spatial scales. Similarly, counter-mapping complicates state distribution of cartography, advocating bottom-up participatory mapping projects (see GIS and environmental governance). Counter-mapping initiatives, often without state assistance, attempt to exert power. As such, counter-mapping conforms to Jessop's notion of \"governance without government\". Another characteristic of governance is its \"purposeful effort to steer, control or manage sectors or facets of society\" towards a common goal. Likewise, as maps exude power and authority, they are a trusted medium with the ability to 'steer' society in a particular direction. In brief, cartography, once the tool of kings and governments, is now being used as a tool of governance - to advocate policy change from the grassroots. The environmental sphere is one context in which counter-mapping has been utilised as a governance tool.\n\nIn contrast to expert knowledges, lay knowledges are increasingly valuable to decision-makers, in part due to the scientific uncertainty surrounding environmental issues. Participatory counter-mapping projects are an effective means of incorporating lay knowledges into issues surrounding environmental governance. For instance, counter-maps depicting traditional use of areas now protected for biodiversity have been used to allow resource use, or to promote public debate about the issue, rather than forcing relocation. For example, the World Wide Fund for Nature used the results of counter-mapping to advocate for the reclassification of several strictly protected areas into Indonesian national parks, including Kayan Mentarang and Gunung Lorentz. The success of such counter-mapping efforts led Alcorn to affirm that governance (grassroots mapping projects), rather than government (top-down map distribution), offers the best hope for good natural resource management. In short, it can be seen that \"maps are powerful political tools in ecological and governance discussions\".\n\nNumerous counter-mapping types exist, for instance: protest maps, map art, counter-mapping for conservation, and PPGIS. In order to emphasise the wide scope of what has come to be known as counter-mapping, three contrasting counter-mapping examples are elucidated in this section: indigenous counter-mapping, community mapping, and state counter-mapping, respectively.\n\nCounter-mapping has been undertaken most in the Third World. Indigenous peoples are increasingly turning to participatory mapping, appropriating both the state's techniques and manner of representation. Counter-mapping is a tool for indigenous identity-building, and for bolstering the legitimacy of customary resource claims. The success of counter-mapping in realising indigenous claims can be seen through Nietschmann's assertion:\n\nThe power of indigenous counter-mapping can be exemplified through the creation of Nunavut. In 1967, Frank Arthur Calder and the Nisaga'a Nation Tribal Council brought an action against the Province of British Columbia for a declaration that aboriginal title to specified land had not been lawfully extinguished. In 1973, the Canadian Supreme Court found that there was, in fact, an aboriginal title. The Canadian government attempted to extinguish such titles by negotiating treaties with the people who had not signed them. As a first step, the Inuit Tapirisat of Canada studied Inuit land occupancy in the Arctic, resulting in the publication of the \"Inuit Land Use and Occupancy Project\". Diverse interests, such as those of hunters, trappers, fishermen and berry-pickers mapped out the land they had used during their lives. As Usher noted:\n\nThese maps played a fundamental role in the negotiations that enabled the Inuit to assert an aboriginal title to the 2 million km² in Canada, today known as Nunavut. Evidently, counter-mapping is a tool by which indigenous groups can re-present the world in ways which destabilise dominant representations.\n\nCommunity mapping can be defined as: \"local mapping, produced collaboratively, by local people and often incorporating alternative\nlocal knowledge\". OpenStreetMap is an example of a community mapping initiative, with the potential to counter the hegemony of state-dominated map distribution.\n\nOpenStreetMap (OSM), a citizen-led spatial data collection website, was founded by Steve Coast in 2004. Data are collected from diverse public domain sources; of which GPS tracks are the most important, collected by volunteers with GPS receivers. there were 340,522 registered OSM users, who had uploaded 2.121 billion GPS points onto the website. The process of map creation explicitly relies upon sharing and participation; consequently, every registered OSM user can edit any part of the map. Moreover, 'map parties' - social events which aim to fill gaps in coverage, help foster a community ethos. In short, the grassroots OSM project can be seen to represent a paradigm shift in who creates and shares geographic information - from the state, to society. \nHowever, rather than countering the state-dominated cartographic project, some commentators have affirmed that OSM merely replicates the 'old' socio-economic order. For instance, Haklay affirmed that OSM users in the United Kingdom tend not to map council estates; consequently, middle-class areas are disproportionately mapped. Thus, in opposition to notions that OSM is a radical cartographic counter-culture, are contentions that OSM \"simply recreates a mirror copy of existing topographic mapping\".\n\nWhat has come to be known as counter-mapping is not limited to the activities of non-state actors within a particular nation-state; relatively weak states also engage in counter-mapping in an attempt to challenge other states.\n\nEast Timor's on-going effort to gain control of gas and oil resources from Australia, which it perceives at its own, is a form of counter-mapping. This dispute involves a cartographic contestation of Australia's mapping of the seabed resources between the two countries. As Nevins contends: whilst Australia's map is based on the status quo - a legacy of a 1989 agreement between Australia and the Indonesian occupier of East Timor at that time, East Timor's map represents an enlarged notion of what its sea boundaries should be, thereby entailing a redrawing of the map. This form of counter-mapping thus represents a claim by a relatively weak state, East Timor, to territory and resources that are controlled by a stronger state, Australia. However, Nevins notes that there is limited potential of realising a claim through East Timor's counter-map: counter-mapping is an effective strategy only when combined with broader legal and political strategies.\n\nCounter-mapping's claim to incorporate counter-knowledges, and thereby empower traditionally disempowered people, has not gone uncontested. A sample of criticisms leveled at counter-mapping:\n\n\nTo summarise, whilst counter-mapping has the potential to transform map-making from \"a science of princes\", the investment required to create a map with the ability to challenge state-produced cartography means that counter-mapping is unlikely to become a \"science of the masses\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12110212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12110212", "title": "DNA database", "text": "DNA database\n\nA DNA database or DNA databank is a database of DNA profiles which can be used in the analysis of genetic diseases, genetic fingerprinting for criminology, or genetic genealogy. DNA databases may be public or private, the largest ones being national DNA databases.\n\nWhen a match is made from a national DNA database to link a crime scene to a person whose DNA profile is stored on a database, that link is often referred to as a \"cold hit\". A cold hit is of particular value in linking a specific person to a crime scene, but is of less evidential value than a DNA match made without the use of a DNA database. Research shows that DNA databases of criminal offenders reduce crime rates.\n\nA centralised DNA database for storing DNA profiles of individuals that enables searching and comparing of DNA samples collected from a crime scene against stored profiles. The most important function of the forensic database is to produce matches between the suspected individual and crime scene bio-markers, and then provides evidence to support criminal investigations, and also leads to identify potential suspects in the criminal investigation. Majority of the National DNA databases are used for forensic purposes.\n\nThe Interpol DNA database is used in criminal investigations. Interpol maintains an automated DNA database called DNA Gateway that contains DNA profiles submitted by member countries collected from crime scenes, missing persons, and unidentified bodies. The DNA Gateway was established in 2002, and at the end of 2013, it had more than 140,000 DNA profiles from 69 member countries. Unlike other DNA databases, DNA Gateway is only used for information sharing and comparison, it does not link a DNA profile to any individual, and the physical or psychological conditions of an individual are not included in the database.\n\nA national or forensic DNA database is not available for non-police purposes. DNA profiles can also be used for genealogical purposes, so that a separate genetic genealogy database needs to be created that stores DNA profiles of genealogical DNA test results. GenBank is a public genetic genealogy database that stores genome sequences submitted by many genetic genealogists. Until now, GenBank has contained large number of DNA sequences gained from more than 140,000 registered organizations, and is updated every day to ensure a uniform and comprehensive collection of sequence information. These databases are mainly obtained from individual laboratories or large-scale sequencing projects. The files stored in GenBank are divided into different groups, such as BCT (bacterial), VRL (viruses), PRI (primates)…etc. People can access GenBank from NCBI’s retrieval system, and then use “BLAST” function to identify a certain sequence within the GenBank or to find the similarities between two sequences.\n\nA medical DNA database is a DNA database of medically relevant genetic variations. It collects an individual's DNA which can reflect their medical records and lifestyle details. Through recording DNA profiles, scientists may find out the interactions between the genetic environment and occurrence of certain diseases (such as cardiovascular disease or cancer), and thus finding some new drugs or effective treatments in controlling these diseases. It is often collaborated with the National Health Service.\n\nA national DNA database is a DNA database maintained by the government for storing DNA profiles of its population. Each DNA profile based on PCR and uses STR (Short Tandem Repeats) analysis. They are generally used for forensic purposes which includes searching and matching of DNA profiles of potential criminal suspects.\n\nIn 2009 Interpol reported there were 54 police national DNA databases in the world at the time and 26 more countries planned to start one. In Europe Interpol reported there were 31 national DNA databases and six more planned. The European Network of Forensic Science Institutes (ENFSI) DNA working group made 33 recommendations in 2014 for DNA database management and guidelines for auditing DNA databases. Other countries have adopted privately developed DNA databases, such as Qatar, which has adopted Bode dbSEARCH.\n\nTypically, a tiny subset of the individual's genome is sampled from 13 or 16 regions that have high individuation.\n\nThe first national DNA database in the United Kingdom was established in April 1995, called National DNA Database (NDNAD). By 2006, it contained 2.7 million DNA profiles (about 5.2% of the UK population), as well as other information from individuals and crime scenes. This had increased to 5.7 million profiles by 2015. The information is stored in the form of a digital code, which is based on the nomenclature of each STR. In the UK, police have wide-ranging powers to take DNA samples and retain them if the subject is convicted of a recordable offence. As the large amount of DNA profiles which have been stored in NDNAD, \"cold hits\" may happen during the DNA matching, which means finding an unexpected match between an individual's DNA profile and an unsolved crime-scene DNA profile.This can introduce a new suspect into the investigation, thus helping to solve the old cases.\n\nIn England and Wales, anyone arrested on suspicion of a recordable offence must submit a DNA sample, the profile of which is then stored on the DNA database. Those not charged or not found guilty have their DNA data deleted within a specified period of time. In Scotland, the law similarly requires the DNA profiles of most people who are acquitted be removed from the database.\n\nNew Zealand was the second country to set up a DNA database.\n\nThe United States national DNA database is called Combined DNA Index System (CODIS). It is maintained at three levels: national, state and local. Each level implemented its own DNA index system. The national DNA index system (NDIS) allows DNA profiles to be exchanged and compared between participated laboratories nationally. Each state DNA index system (SDIS) allows DNA profiles to be exchanged and compared between the laboratories of various states and the local DNA index system (LDIS) allows DNA profiles collected at local sites and uploaded to SDIS and NDIS.\n\nCODIS software integrates and connects all the DNA index systems at the three levels. CODIS is installed on each participating laboratory site and uses a standalone network known as Criminal Justice Information Systems Wide Area Network (CJIS WAN) to connect to other laboratories. In order to decrease the number of irrelevant matches at NDIS, the Convicted Offender Index requires all 13 CODIS STRs to be present for a profile upload. Forensic profiles only require 10 of the STRs to be present for an upload.\n\nAs of 2011, over 9 million records were held within CODIS. As of March 2011, 361,176 forensic profiles and 9,404,747 offender profiles have been accumulated, making it the largest DNA database in the world. As of the same date, CODIS has produced over 138,700 matches to requests, assisting in more than 133,400 investigations.\n\nThe growing public approval of DNA databases has seen the creation and expansion of many states' own DNA databases. California currently maintains the third largest DNA database in the world. Political measures such as California Proposition 69 (2004), which increased the scope of the DNA database, have already met with a significant increase in numbers of investigations aided. Forty-nine states in the USA, all apart from Idaho, store DNA profiles of violent offenders, and many also store profiles of suspects. A 2017 study showed that DNA databases in U.S. states \"deter crime by profiled offenders, reduce crime rates, and are more cost-effective than traditional law enforcement tools\".\n\nCODIS is also used to help find missing persons and identify human remains. It is connected to the National Missing Persons DNA Database; samples provided by family members are sequenced by the University of North Texas Center for Human Identification, which also runs the National Missing and Unidentified Persons System. UNTCHI can sequence both nuclear and mitochondrial DNA.\n\nThe Department of Defense maintains a DNA database to identify the remains of servicemembers. The Department of Defense Serum Repository maintains more than 50,000,000 records, primarily to assist in the identification of human remains. Submission of DNA samples is mandatory for US servicemen, but the database also includes information on military dependents. The National Defense Authorization Act of 2003 provided a means for federal courts or military judges to order the use of the DNA information collected to be made available for the purpose of investigation or prosecution of a felony, or any sexual offense, for which no other source of DNA information is reasonably available. \n\nThe Australian national DNA database is called the National Criminal Investigation DNA Database (NCIDD). By July 2018, it contained 837,000+ DNA profiles. The database used 9 STR loci and a sex gene for analysis, and this was increased to 18 core markers in 2013. NCIDD combines all forensic data, including DNA profiles, advanced bio-metrics or cold cases.\n\nThe Canadian national DNA database is called the National DNA Data Bank (NDDB) which was established in 1998 but first used in 2000. The legislation that Parliament enacted to govern the use of this technology within the criminal justice system has been found by Canadian courts to be respectful of the constitutional and privacy rights of suspects, and of persons found guilty of designated offences.\n\nOn December 11, 1999, The Canadian Government agreed upon the DNA Identification Act. This would allow a Canadian DNA data bank to be created and amended for the criminal code. This provides a mechanism for judges to request the offender to provide blood, buccal swabs, or hair samples from DNA profiles. This legislation became official on June 29, 2000. Canadian police has been using forensic DNA evidence for over a decade. It has become one of the most powerful tools available to law enforcement agencies for the administration of justice.\n\nNDDB consists of two indexes: the Convicted Offender Index (COI) and National Crime Scene Index (CSI-nat). There is also the Local Crime Scene Index (CSI-loc) which is maintained by local laboratories but not NDDB as local DNA profiles do not meet NDDB collection criteria. Another National Crime Scene Index (CSI-nat) is a collection of three labs operated by Royal Canadian Mounted Police (RCMP), Laboratory Sciences Judiciary Medicine Legal (LSJML) and Center of Forensic Sciences (CFS).\n\nIn 2017 Dubai announced an initiative called Dubai 10X which was planned to create 'disruptive innovation' into the country. One of the projects in this initiative was a DNA database that would collect the genomes of all 3 million citizens of the country over a 10-year period. It was intended to use the data base for finding genetic causes of diseases and creating personalised medical treatments.\n\nGermany set up its DNA database for the German Federal Police (BKA) in 1998.\nIn late 2010, the database contained DNA profiles of over 700,000 individuals and in September 2016 it contained 1,162,304 entries. On 23 May 2011 in the \"Stop the DNA Collection Frenzy!\" campaign various civil rights and data protection organizations handed an open letter to the German minister of justice Sabine Leutheusser-Schnarrenberger asking her to take action in order to stop the \"preventive expansion of DNA data-collection\" and the \"preemptive use of mere suspicions and of the state apparatus against individuals\" and to cancel projects of international exchange of DNA data at the European and transatlantic level.\n\nThe Israeli national DNA database is called the Israel Police DNA Index System (IPDIS) which was established in 2007, and has a collection of more than 135,000 DNA profiles. The collection includes DNA profiles from suspected and accused persons and convicted offenders. The Israeli database also include an “elimination bank” of profiles from laboratory staff and other police personnel who may have contact with the forensic evidence in the course of their work.\n\nIn order to handle the high throughput processing and analysis of DNA samples from FTA cards, the Israeli Police DNA database has established a semi-automated program LIMS, which enables a small number of police to finish processing a large number of samples in a relatively small period of time, and it is also responsible for the future tracking of samples.\n\nThe Kuwaiti government passed a law in July 2015 requiring all citizens and permanent residents (4.2 million people) to have their DNA taken for a national database. The reason for this law was security concerns after the ISIS suicide bombing of the Imam Sadiq mosque. They planned to finish collecting the DNA by September 2016 which outside observers thought was optimistic. In October 2017 the Kuwait constitutional court struck down the law saying it was an invasion of personal privacy and the project was cancelled.\n\nIn 1998, the Forensic DNA Research Institute of Federal District Civil Police created DNA databases of sexual assault evidence. In 2012, Brazil approved a national law establishing DNA databases at state and national levels regarding DNA typing of individuals convicted of violent crimes. Following the decree of the Presidency of the Republic of Brazil in 2013, which regulates the 2012 law, Brazil began using CODIS in addition to the DNA databases of sexual assault evidence to solve sexual assault crimes in Brazil.\n\nFrance set up the DNA database called FNAEG in 1998. By December 2009, there were 1.27 million profiles on FNAEG.\n\nIn Sweden, only the DNA profiles of criminals who have spent more than two years in prison are stored. In Norway and Germany, court orders are required, and are only available, respectively, for serious offenders and for those convicted of certain offences and who are likely to reoffend. Austria started a criminal DNA database in 1997 and Italy also set one up in 2016 Switzerland started a temporary criminal DNA database in 2000 and confirmed it in law in 2005.\n\nIn 2005 the incoming Portuguese government proposed to introduce a DNA database of the entire population of Portugal. However, after informed debate including opinion from the Portuguese Ethics Council the database introduced was of just the criminal population.\n\n\nDNA databases occupy more storage when compared to other non DNA databases due to the enormous size of each DNA sequence. Every year DNA databases grow exponentially. This poses a major challenge to the storage, data transfer, retrieval and searchin of these databases. To address these challenges DNA databases are compressed to save storage space and bandwidth during the data transfers. They are decompressed during search and retrieval. Various compression algorithms are used to compress and decompress. The efficiency of any compression algorithm depends how well and fast it compresses and decompresses, which is generally measured in compression ratio. The greater the compression ratio, the better the efficiency of an algorithm. At the same time, the speed of compression and decompression are also considered for evaluation.\n\nDNA sequences contain palindromic repetitions of A, C, T, G. Compression of these sequences involve locating and encoding these repetitions and decoding them during decompression.\n\nSome approaches used to encode and decode are:\n\n\nThe compression algorithms listed below may use one of the above encoding approaches to compress and decompress DNA database\n\n\nMany countries collect newborn blood samples to screen for diseases mainly with a genetic basis. Mainly these are destroyed soon after testing. In some countries the dried blood (and the DNA) is retained for later testing. \nIn Denmark the Danish Newborn Screening Biobank at Statens Serum Institut keeps a blood sample from people born after 1981. The purpose is to test for phenylketonuria and other diseases. However, it is also used for DNA profiling to identify deceased and suspected criminals. Parents can request that the blood sample of their newborn be destroyed after the result of the test is known.\n\nCritics of DNA databases warn that the various uses of the technology can pose a threat to individual civil liberties. Personal information included in genetic material, such as markers that identify various genetic diseases, physical and behavioral traits, could be used for discriminatory profiling and its collection may constitute an invasion of privacy. Also, DNA can be used to establish paternity and whether or not a child is adopted. Nowadays, the privacy and security issues of DNA database has caused huge attention. Some people are afraid that their personal DNA information will be let out easily, others may define their DNA profiles recording in the Databases as a sense of \"criminal\", and being falsely accused in a crime can lead to having a \"criminal\" record for the rest of their lives.\n\nUK laws in 2001 and 2003 allowed DNA profiles to be taken immediately after a person was arrested and kept in a Database even if the suspect was later acquitted. In response to public unease at these provisions, the UK later changed this by passing the Protection of Freedoms Act 2012 which required that those suspects not charged or found not guilty would have their DNA data deleted from the Database.\n\nIn European countries which have established a DNA database, there are some measures which are being used to protect the privacy of individuals, more specifically, some criteria to help removing the DNA profiles from the databases. Among the 22 European countries which have been analyzed, most of the countries will record the DNA profiles of suspects or those who have committed serious crimes. For some countries (like Belgium and France) may remove the criminal’s profile after 30–40 years, because these “criminal investigation” database are no longer needed. Most of the countries will delete the suspect’s profile after they are acquitted…etc. All the countries have a completed legislation to largely avoid the privacy issues which may occur during the use of DNA database.\n\nPrivacy issues surrounding DNA databases not only means privacy is threatened in collecting and analyzing DNA samples, it also exists in protecting and storing this important personal information. As the DNA profiles can be stored indefinitely in DNA database, it has raised concerns that these DNA samples can be used for new and unidentified purposes. With the increase of the users who access the DNA database, people are worried about their information being let out or shared inappropriately, for example, their DNA profile may be shared with others such as law enforcement agencies or countries without individual consent.\n\nThe application of DNA databases have been expanded into two controversial areas: arrestees and familial searching. An arrestee is a person arrested for a crime and who has not yet been convicted for that offense. Currently, 21 states in the a United States have passed legislation that allows law enforcement to take DNA from an arrestee and enter it into the state's CODIS DNA database to see if that person has a criminal record or can be linked to any unsolved crimes. In familial searching, the DNA database is used to look for partial matches that would be expected between close family members. This technology can be used to link crimes to the family members of suspects and thereby help identify a suspect when the perpetrator has no DNA sample in the database.\n\nFurthermore, DNA databases could fall into the wrong hands due to data breaches or data sharing.\n\nIn a judgement in December 2008, the European Court of Human Rights ruled that two British men should not have had their DNA and fingerprints retained by police saying that retention \"could not be regarded as necessary in a democratic society\".\n\nThe DNA fingerprinting pioneer Professor Sir Alec Jeffreys condemned UK government plans to keep the genetic details of hundreds of thousands of innocent people in England and Wales for up to 12 years. Jeffreys said he was \"disappointed\" with the proposals, which came after a European court ruled that the current policy breaches people's right to privacy. Jefferys said \"It seems to be as about as minimal a response to the European court of human rights judgment as one could conceive. There is a presumption not of innocence but of future guilt here … which I find very disturbing indeed\".\n\nA 2017 study in the \"American Economic Journal: Applied Economics\" showed that databases of criminal offenders' DNA profiles in US states \"deter crime by profiled offenders, reduce crime rates, and are more cost-effective than traditional law enforcement tools.\"\n\nMonozygotic twins share around 99.99% of their DNA, while other siblings share around 50%. Some next generation sequencing tools are capable of detecting rare de novo mutations in only one of the twins (detectable in rare single nucleotide polymorphisms). Most DNA testing tools would not detect these rare SNPs in most twins.\n\nEach person’s DNA is unique to them to the slight exception of identical (monozygotic and monospermotic) twins, who start out from the identical genetic line of DNA but during the twinning event have incredibly small mutations which can be detected now (for all intents and purposes, compared to all other humans and even to theoretical \"clones, [who would not share the same uterus nor experience the same mutations pre-twinning event]\" identical twins have more identical DNA than is probably possible to achieve between any other two humans). Tiny differences between identical twins can now (2014) be detected by next generation sequencing. For current fiscally available testing, \"identical\" twins cannot be easily differentiated by the most common DNA testing, but it has been shown to be possible. While other siblings (including fraternal twins) share about 50% of their DNA, monozygotic twins share virtually 99.99%. Beyond these more recently discovered twinning-event mutation disparities, since 2008 it has been known that people who are identical twins also each have their own set of copy number variants, which can be thought of as the number of copies they each personally exhibit for certain sections of DNA.\n\n"}
{"id": "55748009", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55748009", "title": "Dany Bébel-Gisler", "text": "Dany Bébel-Gisler\n\nDany Bébel-Gisler (7 April 1935 – 28 September 2003) was an Afro-Guadeloupean writer and sociolinguist who specialized in Antillean Creole and ethnology. She was one of the first linguists to defend the preservation and teaching of Creole languages and study how the interplay of the \"lingua franca\" of the Caribbean reflected the social hierarchy, as well as the assimilation or lack thereof of both the colonizers and colonized. She was instrumental in the development of UNESCO's The Slave Route Project, tracing the intersection of African, Caribbean and European cultures and published several novels and children's books on Guadeloupean culture.\n\nDany Bébel was born on 7 April 1935 in Pointe-à-Pitre on the island of Guadeloupe in the French Antilles. Her father's family owned a sugar plantation in Guadeloupe and her mother was a mulatto woman who was an agricultural worker on the plantation. Growing up on her grandfather’s sugarcane plantation, she was encouraged to pursue her educational dreams in France. During her teens, she moved to France and attended a preparatory school in Toulouse. She then went on to study at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris. When she graduated, Bébel became the first person in her mother's family to have earned her baccalauréat. Receiving the Prix Spécial de Français, she went on to study at the Grandes écoles, under the tutelage of Michel Leiris, focusing on ethnology, linguistics and sociology.\n\nBébel-Gisler began working in France in the 1960s, while she was completing her university studies. She taught in Nanterre and Aubervilliers, focusing on educating immigrants and working-class students. She led an adult literacy program in Paris, which targeted African and Algerian immigrants. In 1976, she returned to Guadeloupe with the goal of launching an experimental teaching project for rural residents living in the area around Lamentin. Her target group was illiterate adults who were not French-speaking, so that she could create a spelling system for the local Creole language. At the time, there were few Creole texts that did not look at the language from an etymological analysis standpoint. Publishing a booklet, \"Kèk Prinsip Pou Ékri Kréyól\" (Some Principles for Writing in Kreol), in 1975, she proposed designing a notational system for Guadeloupean Creole based upon the Haitian model which had been developed, but which could be researched, refined, and applied to create a written standard for educational purposes. In 1976, she published \"La Langue créole, force jugulée\" (The Creole language, forced suppression), which evaluated the system in French schools which placed immigrant children in remedial classes because they could not speak standard French. Removing them from regular classes, she believed, caused students to feel inferior and impacted their further education and later their ability to get jobs. Thus, language, rather than being a commonality between peoples became a means of maintaining social boundaries.\n\nIn 1979, Bébel-Gisler founded the alternative-educational Centre d'Education Populaire Bwadoubout, to provide literacy for disadvantaged adults or children who wanted access to learning, but may have been obstructed because formal schools taught only in French. She directed the center and received funding from the French National Center for Scientific Research, though in effect, her work at Bwadoubout undermined the governmental objectives of assimilation. Language became a vehicle for activism, for Bébel-Gisler, who recognized that controlling access to knowledge insured that certain social classes or those with certain backgrounds controlled the power. By refusing to use French, Guadeloupeans were creating a distinction between themselves, their colonizer, and other Antillean colonies, as well as rejecting assimilation.\n\nIn addition to her educational efforts, Bébel-Gisler began publishing novels. In 1985, her biographical novel \"Lénora: l’histoire enfouie de la Guadeloupe\" (Leonora: the buried story of Guadeloupe) described the period between 1940 and 1943, when Governor instituted policies to isolate Guadeloupe and Martinique from the potentiality of American or British occupation, leading to widespread suffering on the islands. The book was released in English in 1994 and she published the children's book, \"Grand'mère, ça commence où la Route de l'esclave?\" (Grandmother, where does the Slave Route begin?) in 1998. The book retraced the slave triangle and was a means of acknowledging the past and its impact on history. In 2000, she published, \"À la recherche d’une odeur de grand’mère; D’en Guadeloupe une « enfant de la Dass » raconte…\" (In Search of Grandmother's Smell: Tales from a \"child of the Dass\" in Guadeloupe). The book tells how the sugar plantation shaped both the landscape and the people who worked within it, replacing family ties with communal relationships and changing the nature of the relationships between men and women and parents and children. It explores the competing themes prevalent in Guadeloupean society where matrifocality and patriarchy meet.\n\nIn 1996, Bébel-Gisler became affiliated with UNESCO's The Slave Route Project, tracing the intersection of African, Caribbean and European cultures through the monuments of the slave trade. She was responsible for documenting the Caribbean portion of the route. Bringing the project to Guadeloupe, she identified eighteen significant extant sites including plantations, forts, and jails. \n\nBébel-Gisler died unexpectedly of a heart attack on 28 September 2003 at her home in Lamentin. She is widely remembered for her activism in preserving Guadeloupean Creole.\n\n"}
{"id": "47751863", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47751863", "title": "Dominant narrative", "text": "Dominant narrative\n\nDominant narrative can be used to describe the lens in which history is told by the perspective of the dominant culture. This term has been described as an \"invisible hand\" that guides reality and perceived reality. Dominant narrative can refer to multiple aspects of life, such as history, politics, or different activist groups. Dominant culture is defined as the majority cultural practices of a society. Narrative can be defined as story telling, either true or imaginary. Pairing these two terms together create the notion of dominant narrative, that only the majority story is told and therefore heard. It is a common theme to hear or learn only about the dominant narrative as it comprises the perspective of the majority culture. Examples of dominant narrative can be seen throughout history. Dominant narrative can be defined and decided by the sociopolitical and socioeconomic setting someone lives his or her life in. \n\nDominant narrative is similar in some ways to the ideas of metanarrative or grand narrative. These two terms refer to the notion that there is a common lived experience, or a totalizing narrative, experience, or account of history. Unlike the above terms, dominant narrative as a concept is used to explain not just only that there is one narrative told, but what makes it possible for that to be the narrative that is told. This term addresses what the reasons are that the dominant narrative is, in fact, dominant or the majority account.\n\nIt is also important to look at who is not included in the dominant narrative and how this can affect society and people in those marginalized groups. Not everyone has access to being a part of the dominant narrative. Counter-narrative has been coined as the term regarding the stories and lived experiences of those not in the dominant narrative or not allowed to be a part of it. Counter-narrative are used as a way to share minorities stories excluded and combat the dominant narrative. \n\nThe dominant narrative can most often be seen as those that occupy scholar Judith Lorber's A-Categories. Lorber defines and describes A-category members as those that occupy the dominant group in different aspects of life. For example, that can be seen in the topic of race (human categorization) with white being the A-category and all minorities being the not-A; or in the topic of gender with man being the A-category while woman being the not-A. This notion includes all intersectionalities such as age, sexual orientation, CIS/Transgender, ableism, education, and citizenship. The dominant narrative are those that take part in and benefit from being associated with the dominant culture. Having forms of privilege and power that come from being in Lorber's A Categories, can directly relate to being in the dominant culture. The dominant narrative simply consists of whose voice can be recognized and represented when retelling stories, or whose voice/story is perceived as valid or real.\n\nThere are a number of critiques and concerns with there being a dominant narrative in society. Many of the critiques of there being a dominant narrative come from the exclusion of counter-narratives. To fully understand what the dominant narrative is and understand examples of it is necessary to understand its limitations. Some limitations with there being a dominant narrative include the following:\n\nHaving a dominant narrative can create a notion that there is a metanarrative among the dominant group, meaning all apart of the dominant group are experiencing life the same way. In using the example of the caucasian dominant narrative, this would mean that all Caucasians of somewhat similar sociopolitical and socioeconomic standing are experiencing life and events the same, and that is not true. A dominant narrative can generalize the lived experiences of people within the dominant culture. The metanarrative among the dominant culture creates the notion that whiteness is the norm, and that the dominant culture is the normal culture to which other cultures need to adapt. The perceived sense of normalcy can be very problematic because it encourages people within the majority to not change and question what could be wrong with having such a strong dominant narrative. \n\nHaving a dominant narrative based on the dominant culture, therefore means anyone not in the dominant culture cannot be a part of the dominant narrative. Since the dominant narrative is accepted as the norm this, therefore, means those not in the dominant narrative are abnormal. Someone's narrative and perceived narrative can greatly affect how someone views themselves and relates to themselves. If someone is not part of the dominant narrative and their story is not being told, that means their lived experiences are being ignored and in turn written out of history. Lived experiences, similar to counter-narratives, can be defined as everyday experiences people face and most often referring to those in the minority group. Lived experiences have also been called material realities, meaning that they are the real, tangible experiences and realities that people live on a daily basis, even if they are counter to the dominant narrative. Terry is cited for explaining how inequalities, can affect which narrative and tellings are able to be heard and which aren't. If the stories of people with inequalities are not heard, then this completely ignores them, and any agency they could have in society.\n\nJeyn Roberts is quoted for saying \"there are three sides to every story. Yours. Mine. What really happened: the truth.\" Dominant narrative makes it so only one side of any story is told, this completely ignores any other sides or even the truth. By definition, a dominant narrative does not include every and all aspects of any event. By only learning about and studying the dominant narrative then people are only being educated partially about any historical or current events. This creates a false historical account of most of history. Winston Churchill has been associated with the saying \"history is written by the victors.\" This saying directly relates to the concept of dominant narrative and how the full truth of events as it relates to minorities is not being retold. This means that through mainstream education and media people are not being put forth the most accurate information and historical accounts.\n\nDominant narrative can be seen in almost any aspect of life from media, history, advertising, and activism. The following are some examples of places dominant narrative can be present:\n\nHistory is one of the most important fields to acknowledge that dominant narrative is present. It is important for people to have a full and accurate understanding of historical events, this is often muddled by the dominant narrative. A historical example of dominant narrative ignoring contributions of people of color can be seen in the military realm. A historical example of black men being ignored for their contributions to the US Military can be understood in the instance of the Tuskegee Airmen. The Tuskegee Airmen was a program based out of Tuskegee, AZ in 1941, in which African-American men were trained and educated in multiple aspects relating to war aircraft. Due to racist ideologies many opposed African-American men being trained to become US Military pilots. Although the Tuskegee Airman overcame great obstacles and contributed immensely to US Military acts in World War II, they have not been given considerable recognition until Bill Clinton commemorated Tuskegee as a national historic site. Even though the Tuskegee Airmen deserved recognition for all they were contributing to the war and in terms of overcoming racial prejudices, because of the WWII dominant narrative they were not given recognition until people fought for their behalf. There are many other historical contributions made by people not in the dominant culture, which are never retroactively recognized and acknowledged. \n\nLike historical accounts, journalism and news media can also be framed in the dominant narrative lens. This historical dominant narrative can affect what news people are actually being exposed to. This is problematic because only news that the dominant narrative deems important receives the most media attention. \nAn example of the dominant narrative at play in the media can be seen in the way the Rwandan Genocide was almost completely ignored by Western media and news. This genocide consists of the ethnic majority group, the Hutu, attempting to extinguish the Tutsi ethnic group. Initially, the Rwandan Genocide was not framed by the media as a genocide, in an attempt to ignore the severity of the event. The early developments of the Rwandan Genocide where minimalized as a way to justify a lack of intervention by many countries. Since the events in Rwanda did not directly affect US citizens the genocide did not seem to be as big of a deal in media, especially because the genocide consisted of black non-Americans this genocide was hardly discussed, as it is a counter-narrative to the dominant narrative. But even when race is not a factor at play the mass media can shape the dominant narrative in a way to instil indifference and avoid intervention. This happened, for instance, during the early phases of the breakup of Yugoslavia, as many international authorities disputed and denied that a genocide was taking place in Bosnia. \n\nPeople who do not fit into the dominant narrative can also be written out of activist movements, and in turn written out of history later on. There are some needs and intersections of privilege that are necessary to participate in some forms of activism. Not everyone is able to participate in activist work because of their socioeconomic status, their sociopolitical status, their job safety, their families or childcare needs. Limitations like those just mentioned can greatly affect who is active and participates in social activism. Because someone, most likely not in the dominant culture, may not have the means to participate that means their narrative may not be shared. An example of dominant narrative in activism can be seen in Women's rights movements. First-wave feminism has been critiqued for a lack of inclusion of black women and race in their movements. Feminist history is often explained in a framework of the contributions made by white affluent and educated American or British women. White women with higher socioeconomic standings were not the only women that took part in the first-wave feminist activism, but most often were the only ones that were given access to political gains and recognition.\n"}
{"id": "40843598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40843598", "title": "European Pirate Party", "text": "European Pirate Party\n\nThe European Pirates (PIRATES) or European Pirate Party (PPEU) is an association of parties aspiring to be recognised as a European political party by the European Union. It was founded on 21 March 2014 at the European Parliament in Brussels in the context of a conference on \"European Internet Governance and Beyond\", and consists of pirate parties of European countries. The parties cooperate to run a joint campaign for the 2014 European Parliament elections.\n\nThe founding meeting elected Amelia Andersdotter, Swedish Member of the European Parliament for Piratpartiet, as the first chairperson. The party's members elected to the European Parliament are in The Greens–European Free Alliance.\n\nEuropean Pirate Party got total 868,069 votes (not counting Italy) in the European Parliament election, 2014.\n\n"}
{"id": "19163660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19163660", "title": "Evolve (TV series)", "text": "Evolve (TV series)\n\nEvolve is a 2008 documentary television series on History. The series premiere, \"Eyes\", was nominated for an Emmy for Outstanding Science, Technology and Nature Programming.\n\nEach episode attempts to explain the evolutionary origins of a particular trait of living creatures: for example, Tyrannosaurus Rex's 13-inch teeth, the gecko's \"Velcro-like\" toe pads, and the bald eagle's \"telescopic\" vision capable of spotting a hare a mile away.\n\nTo date, there are 11 episodes, which are available to buy in a compilation box set. The box incorrectly lists 13 episodes but does list the correct 11 episode running time total. Topics are of the episode as named.\n\nThe dates of the episodes vary from the different sources available on the internet. The following dates have been compiled from different TV listing websites. Only the airdate of the initial episode is consistent among 4 sources:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23135990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23135990", "title": "Fluxus 1", "text": "Fluxus 1\n\nFluxus 1 is an artists' book edited and produced by the Lithuanian-American artist George Maciunas, containing works by a series of artists associated with Fluxus, the international collective of avant-garde artists primarily active in the 1960s and 1970s. Originally published in New York, 1964, the contents vary from edition to edition, but usually contain work by Ay-O, George Brecht, Alison Knowles, György Ligeti, Yoko Ono, Robert Watts and La Monte Young amongst many others.\n\nThe work has become famous as an early example of conceptual art, and as one of the defining products of the Fluxus collective.\n\nMaciunas had originally set up the AG Gallery, 925 Madison Avenue, New York City, to exhibit abstract art and to sell ancient musical instruments; upon meeting La Monte Young and Richard Maxfield in late 1960, however, he 'was suddenly confronted with the most radical ideas in art.' Overnight, the gallery was transformed into a greenhouse for 'the germination of Fluxus', hosting events by Dick Higgins, Jackson Mac Low, Yoko Ono, La Monte Young and others. All of these artists would be included in the forthcoming \"Fluxus 1\"; the first known mention of the name \"Fluxus\" came on the invitation cards to 3 events held at the gallery, Spring 1961, in which guests were asked to contribute $3 to 'help publish Fluxus magazine'.\n\nThe gallery had gone bankrupt by mid 1961; to avoid his creditors, Maciunas took a job working for the US Army as a freelance designer in Wiesbaden, West Germany. He took many of the scores collected by La Monte Young for \"AN ANTHOLOGY\", and whilst working on the design and printing for that, also began work on his own anthology \"Fluxus 1\". Modelled in many ways on An Anthology, both works would prove difficult to publish. \"AN ANTHOLOGY\" appeared in Spring 1963; Most of Fluxus 1 was printed by the same German printers contemporaneously, but Maciunas doesn't seem to have put any copies together until sometime in early 1964, by which time he'd left his job in Germany due to bad health and had returned to New York. His letters leave a paper trail of torturous dealings with German printers;\n\nOriginally intended as a six-part series of yearboxes covering America (1), Northern Europe (2), Japan (3), 'Homage To The Past' (4), Southern Europe (5) and Eastern Europe (6), only \"Fluxus 1\" was actually published; whilst predominantly anthologising American artists, both European and Japanese artists were included from material that had originally been intended for other volumes in the series. The book originally sold for $6, with a 'Luxus Fluxus' edition costing $12 containing 'film, tape, objects and accessories' \n\nAmongst many other influences, Maciunas was directly inspired by LEF, the communist journal founded by Mayakovsky and Ossip Brik; an artistic organisation aimed at unifying left-wing artists to help build the newly emerging communist state in Russia. \"Fluxus 1\" was Maciunas' first attempt at creating a coherent collective voice, an attempt to erode the artist's status as heroic individual & his first attempt to 'communicate the concept of the self-sufficiency of the audience, an art where anything can substitute for an art work and anyone can produce it.' \n\nIn a lecture given on the June 9, 1962, Wuppertal, West Germany, to coincide with the launch of the \"Brochure Prospectus for the Fluxus Yearboxes\", Maciunas stated that;\n\nThe anti-art forms are primarily directed against art as a profession, against the artificial separation of producer or performer, of generator and spectator or against the separation of art and life. They oppose forms artificial in themselves, models or methods of composition, of artificially constructed phenomena in the various areas of artistic practice, against intentional, conscious formalism and against the fixation of art on meaning, against the demand of music to be heard and that of plastic art to be seen; and finally against the thesis that both should be acknowledged and understood. Anti-art is life, nature; true reality is the one and all. The bird song is anti-art. The pouring rain, the chattering of an impatient audience, sneeze noises ... or compositions like \"letting a butterfly caught in a net fly away\" or \"what an audience left to its own devices does for amusement\"- all of these examples may be viewed in this sense as anti-art.\n\nMaciunas sent out requests for 'critical or non-critical, rational or irrational essays'; scores, instructions ... visual compositions for reproductions, collages, photographs ... solid objects, scraps, smears, junk, garbage, rags, ready-makes (sic), found objects ... or an object (like a flat painting) cut into 200 parts.' As the yearbox developed, Maciunas became increasingly interested in what he referred to as 'Concretism', derived from Duchamp's ideas about the 'readymade'. In effect, concretism refers to works that don't attempt to transform themselves; objects such as George Brecht's \"Exit\" that remains resolutely a sign indicating the exit.\n\nThe best Fluxus 'Composition' is a most non-personal, 'readymade' one like Brecht's 'Exit'—it does not require any of us to perform it since it happens daily without any 'special' performance of it. Thus our festivals will eliminate themselves (and our need to participate) when they become total readymades (like Brecht's exit) \n\nThe book consists of a number of envelopes bound together by metal bolts, each containing printed works by a single artist. Some copies have the names of the works and of the artists printed onto the envelopes; others are hand-stamped. There is a printed folded sheet attached featuring Maciunas' typographic representations of each artist's name, and the whole book is contained in a wooden case sprayed with the title. The box was used, in part, to facilitate sending the work by post. A number of copies have the recipient's address written directly onto the cover.\n\nContents might include: a \"Finger Envelope\" by Ay-O featuring an envelope with a slit in it containing a nylon stocking; \"A Favorite Song\" by Joe Jones containing 'a scramble of used music typewriter ribbons'; \"Disappearing Music for Envelopes\" by Mieko Shiomi consisting of a sequence of envelopes of diminishing sizes within each other; the music score for \"Trois Bagatelles\" by Györgi Ligeti; or \"An Opera\" (see ), a short story written on a long scroll by Emmett Williams.\n\nCopies of \"Fluxus 1\" were assembled over a period of 13 years, and whilst the form and much of the content remained fairly stable, 'Maciunas' attitude toward certain artists and/or works in the anthology changed, some works got lost or mislaid, and others ran out of stock.' Marginal figures in Fluxus, such as Giuseppe Chiari and Sohei Hashimoto, were dropped in favour of artists such as Yoko Ono and the Hi Red Center, whilst Dick Higgins is noticeable by his absence after a feud with Maciunas over the setting up of the Something Else Press.\n\nThere are thought to be more than a hundred boxes manufactured between 1964 and 1977 in New York, and a further one hundred or so pieced together in Amsterdam by Willem De Ridder, for sale in the european Flux Mail Order Shop.\n\n"}
{"id": "26240418", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26240418", "title": "Forced speech", "text": "Forced speech\n\nForced speech may refer to:\n\n"}
{"id": "10305220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10305220", "title": "Generic views", "text": "Generic views\n\nThe principal of generic views in the study of cognition stipulates that the interpretation made by an observer of a distal phenomenon should be such as to not require that the observer be in a special position to, or relationship with, the phenomenon in question. The principal is a fairly general account of the inductive bias that allows an observer to reconstruct distal phenomena from an impoverished proximal datum. This principle has been advanced particularly in vision research as an account of how, for example, three-dimensional structure is extracted from an inadequate two-dimensional projection.\n\nThe principal of generic views has been discussed by Richards and Hoffman, and has been given a sophisticated Bayesian formalization by Freeman.\n\nAnother expression of the generic views principal is that the inference of distal structure should be such that the inference would remain substantially the same if the \"position\" of the observer were moderately altered (perturned). If the inference made would have been qualitatively or categorically different under a perturbation of the observer, then the inference does not satisfy the generic views assumption, and should be rejected. (The question of what constitutes a qualitative or categorical difference is an interesting point of detail.) On this view, it can be argued that the principal of generic views is nothing more than an inference based on the maximum posterior probability (MAP) which accounts for aspects of observation. Thus, we infer the distal phenomenon which possess the highest probability of having generated the observations in question, and this probability incorporates (in addition to relevant priors) both the likelihood of the distal phenomenon generating certain observable signals, and the likelihood of the observer transducing those signals in a manner consistent with the observations. On such an analysis (and with various assumptions invoked), one can obtain a behavior approximating the generic views principal.\n\n"}
{"id": "75378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=75378", "title": "Graphology", "text": "Graphology\n\nGraphology (or graphoanalysis, but not \"graphanalysis\") is the analysis of the physical characteristics and patterns of handwriting claiming to be able to identify the writer, indicating psychological state at the time of writing, or evaluating personality characteristics. It is generally considered a pseudoscience. The term is sometimes incorrectly used to refer to forensic document examination, due to the fact that aspects of the latter dealing with the examination of handwritten documents are occasionally referred to as \"graphanalysis\".\n\nGraphology has been controversial for more than a century. Although supporters point to the anecdotal evidence of positive testimonials as a reason to use it for personality evaluation, empirical studies fail to show the validity claimed by its supporters.\n\nThe word \"graphology\" is derived from \"grapho-\" (from the Greek γραφή, \"writing\") and \"logos\" (from the Greek λόγος, which relates to discussion or theory).\n\nJean-Charles Gille-Maisani stated in 1991 that Juan Huarte de San Juan's 1575 \"Examen de ingenios para las ciencias\" was the first book on handwriting analysis. In American graphology, Camillo Baldi's \"Trattato come da una lettera missiva si conoscano la natura e qualita dello scrittore\" from 1622 is considered to be the first book.\n\nAround 1830 Jean-Hippolyte Michon became interested in handwriting analysis. He published his findings shortly after founding \"Société Graphologique\" in 1871. The most prominent of his disciples was Jules Crépieux-Jamin who rapidly published a series of books that were soon published in other languages. Starting from Michon's integrative approach, Crépieux-Jamin founded a holistic approach to graphology.\n\nAlfred Binet was convinced to conduct research into graphology from 1893 to 1907. He called it \"the science of the future\" despite rejection of his results by graphologists.\n\nAfter World War I, interest in graphology continued to spread in Europe as well as the United States. In Germany during the 1920s, Ludwig Klages founded and published his finding in \"Zeitschrift für Menschenkunde\" (\"Journal for the Study of Mankind\"). His major contribution to the field can be found in \"Handschrift und Charakter\".\n\nThea Stein Lewinson and J. Zubin modified Klage's ideas, based upon their experience working for the U.S. government, publishing their method in 1942.\n\nIn 1929 Milton Bunker founded The American Grapho Analysis Society teaching graphoanalysis. This organization and its system split the American graphology world in two. Students had to choose between graphoanalysis or holistic graphology. While hard data is lacking, anecdotal evidence indicates that 10% of the members of International Graphoanalysis Society (IGAS) were expelled between 1970 and 1980.\n\nRegarding a proposed correlation between gender and handwriting style, a paper by published by James Hartley in 1989 concluded that there was some evidence in support of this hypothesis.\n\nAlthough graphology had some support in the scientific community before the mid-twentieth century, more recent research rejects the validity of graphology as a tool to assess personality and job performance. Today it is considered to be a pseudoscience. Graphology is primarily used as a recruiting tool to screen candidates during the evaluation process. Many studies have been conducted to assess its effectiveness to predict personality and job performance. Recent studies testing the validity of using handwriting for predicting personality traits and job performance have been consistently negative.\n\nIn a 1987 study, graphologists were unable to predict scores on the Eysenck Personality Questionnaire using writing samples from the same people. In a 1988 study, graphologists were unable to predict scores on the Myers-Briggs test using writing samples from the same people. A 1982 meta-analysis drawn from over 200 studies concludes that graphologists were generally unable to predict any kind of personality trait on any personality test.\n\nMeasures of job performance appear similarly unrelated to the handwriting metrics of graphologists. Professional graphologists using handwriting analysis were just as ineffective as lay people at predicting performance in a 1989 study. A broad literature screen done by King and Koehler confirmed dozens of studies showing the geometric aspects of graphology (slant, slope, \"etc.\") are essentially worthless predictors of job performance.\n\nRowan Bayne, a British psychologist who has written several studies on graphology, summarized his view of the appeal of graphology: \"[i]t's very seductive because at a very crude level someone who is neat and well behaved tends to have neat handwriting\", adding that the practice is \"useless... absolutely hopeless\". The British Psychological Society ranks graphology alongside astrology, giving them both \"zero validity\".\n\nGraphology was also dismissed as a pseudo-science by the skeptic James Randi in 1991.\n\nIn his May 21, 2013 Skeptoid podcast episode titled \"All About Graphology,\" scientific skeptic author Brian Dunning reports:In his book \"The Write Stuff\", Barry Beyerstein summarized the work of Geoffrey Dean, who performed probably the most extensive literature survey of graphology ever done. Dean did a meta-analysis on some 200 studies: Dean showed that graphologists have failed unequivocally to demonstrate the validity or reliability of their art for predicting work performance, aptitudes, or personality. Graphology thus fails according to the standards a genuine psychological test must pass before it can ethically be released for use on an unsuspecting public.<br><br>\nDean found that no particular school of graphology fared better than any other... In fact, no graphologist of any stripe was able to show reliably better performance than untrained amateurs making guesses from the same materials. In the vast majority of studies, neither group exceeded chance expectancy.\n\nDunning concludes:Other divining techniques like iridology, phrenology, palmistry, and astrology also have differing schools of thought, require years of training, offer expensive certifications, and fail just as soundly when put to a scientific controlled test. Handwriting analysis does have its plausible-sounding separation from those other techniques though, and that's the whole \"handwriting is brainwriting\" idea — traits from the brain will be manifested in the way that it controls the muscles of the hand. Unfortunately, this is just as unscientific as the others. No amount of sciencey sounding language can make up for a technique failing when put to a scientifically controlled test.\n\n\nMax Pulver supports a system called symbolic analysis in which he looks for symbols in the handwriting.\n\nEach approach to handwriting analysis has spawned several systems.\n\nIntegrative graphology focuses on strokes and their relation to personality. Graphoanalysis was the most influential system in the United States, between 1929 and 2000. The Sistema de Xandró is another method of integrative graphology. Holistic graphology is based on form, movement, and use of space. The psychogram is another method which uses specific diagrams to analyze handwriting. The Personal Worth Chart is one such method developed by the Handwriting Consultants of San Diego during the early 1980s. The psychograph is an additional psychogram method. was developed by Leslie King during the 1970s. The Wittlich Character Diagram, and the Muller-Enskat Protokol are other psychogram methods.\n\nPsychologists Leopold Szondi, Augusto Vels, and Girolamo Moretti invented their personal schools of graphology.\n\nFour academic institutions offer an accredited degree in handwriting analysis:\n\nThe majority of material in the field is oriented toward the Latin writing system. Courses offered in the subject reflect that bias.\n\nEvery system of handwriting analysis has its own vocabulary. Even though two or more systems may share the same words, the meanings of those words may be different. The technical meaning of a word used by a handwriting analyst, and the common meaning is not congruent. Resentment, for example, in common usage, means annoyance. In Graphoanalysis, the term indicates a fear of imposition.\n\nA report by the Hungarian Parliamentary Commissioner for Data Protection and Freedom of Information says that handwriting analysis without informed consent is a privacy violation.\n\nThere have been a number of studies on gender and handwriting.\nUniformly the research indicates that gender can be determined at a significant level. The published studies on ethnicity, race, age, nationality, gender orientation, weight, and their relationship to handwriting have had mixed results.\n\nOne of the rules of thumb in human resources is that if an individual who has an ADA-defined disability cannot take a test, then nobody can. As a result, tests that cannot be adapted for use by those individuals will not be used by a company.\n\nHandwriting clearly falls into the group of tests that cannot be adapted to be administered to individuals who fall within one or more ADA-defined disabilities. Blind people, for example, do not develop the required fluency in handwriting, for the writing to be correctly analyzed.\n\nQuestions that handwriting analysts ask before doing an analysis can be illegal under this act.\n\nA company takes a writing sample provided by an applicant, and proceeds to do a personality profile, matching the congruency of the applicant with the ideal psychological profile of employees in the position.\n\nA graphological report is meant to be used in conjunction with other tools, such as comprehensive background checks, practical demonstration or record of work skills. Graphology supporters state that it can complement but not replace traditional hiring tools.\n\nResearch in employment suitability has ranged from complete failure to guarded\nsuccess. The most substantial reason for not using handwriting analysis in the employment process is the absence of evidence of a direct link between handwriting analysis and various measures of job performance.\n\nThe use of graphology in the hiring process has been criticized on ethical grounds and on legal grounds in the United States.\n\nGraphology has been used clinically by European counselors and psychotherapists. When it is used, it is generally used alongside other projective personality assessment tools, and not in isolation. It is often used within individual psychotherapy, marital counseling, or vocational counseling.\n\nIn its simplest form only sexual expression and sexual response are examined. At its most complex, every aspect of an individual is examined for how it affects the other individual(s) within the relationship. The theory is that after knowing and understanding how each individual in the relationship differs from every other individual in the relationship, the resulting marriage will be more enduring.\n\nMedical graphology is probably the most controversial branch of handwriting analysis. Strictly speaking, such research is not graphology as described throughout this article but an examination of factors pertaining to motor control. Research studies have been conducted in which a detailed examination of handwriting factors, particularly timing, fluidity, pressure, and consistency of size, form, speed, and pressure are considered in the process of evaluating patients and their response to pharmacological therapeutic agents. The study of these phenomena is a by-product of researchers investigating motor control processes and the interaction of nervous, anatomical, and biomechanical systems of the body.\n\n\"The Vanguard Code of Ethical Practice\", amongst others, prohibits medical diagnosis by those not licensed to do diagnosis in the state in which they practice.\n\nThis is the pseudoscience of changing a person's handwriting with the goal of changing features of his or her personality, or \"handwriting analysis in reverse.\" It originated in France during the 1930s, spreading to the United States in the late 1950s. The purported therapy consists of a series of exercises which are similar to those taught in basic calligraphy courses, sometimes in conjunction with music or positive self-talk.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11273068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11273068", "title": "Growing block universe", "text": "Growing block universe\n\nAccording to the growing block universe theory of time (or the growing block view), the past and present exist and the future does not exist. The present is an objective property, to be compared with a moving spotlight. By the passage of time more of the world comes into being; therefore, the block universe is said to be growing. The growth of the block is supposed to happen in the present, a very thin slice of spacetime, where more of spacetime is continually coming into being.\n\nThe growing block view is an alternative to both eternalism (according to which past, present, and future all exist) and presentism (according to which only the present exists). It is held to be closer to common-sense intuitions than the alternatives. C. D. Broad was a proponent of the theory (1923). Some modern defenders are Michael Tooley (in 1997) and Peter Forrest (in 2004).\n\nRecently several philosophers, David Braddon-Mitchell (2004), Craig Bourne and Trenton Merricks have noted that if the growing block view is correct then we have to conclude that we do not know whether now is now. (The first occurrence of \"now\" is an indexical and the second occurrence of \"now\" is the objective tensed property. Their observation implies the following sentence: \"This part of spacetime has the property of being present\".)\n\nTake Socrates discussing, in the past, with Gorgias, and at the same time thinking that the discussion is occurring now. According to the growing block view, tense is a real property of the world so his thought is about now, the objective present. He thinks, tenselessly, that his thought is occurring on the edge of being. But we know he is wrong because he is in the past; he does not know that now is now. But how can we be sure we are not in the same position? There is nothing special with Socrates. Therefore, we do not know whether now is now.\n\nHowever, some have argued that there is an ontological distinction between the past and the present. For instance, Forrest (2004) argues that although there exists a past, it is lifeless and inactive. Consciousness, as well as the flow of time, is not active within the past and can only occur at the boundary of the block universe in which the present exists.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43117270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43117270", "title": "Han Seung-oh", "text": "Han Seung-oh\n\nHan Seung-oh (; born 1978) was a South Korean human rights activist and civil activist. He was one of founding members of Man of Korea (남성연대) also 2nd leader of Man of Korea, July 29, 2013 until August 14.\n\nHan was born in Seoul. In 2008 he was a founding member of Man of Korea, also May 1, 2012, he was appointed to one Leader of General Affairs Team for Sung Jae-gi. On July 8 and July 22 he was Participation of Visit protest for Jecheon Women's Library with Sung Jae-gi. 8 month later, he was appointed to Secretary General of Man of Korea.\n\nIn July 25, 2013, he was nominated as successor to Sung Jae-gi, before his death. in July 26, 2013 Han was one of visitors Sung Jae-gi's suicide, but he was did not discourage. after four days, Seoul city police investigated, with an innocent disposition.\n\nFrom July 26 to August 14, Han was Sung Jae-gi's funeral and case settled. but this did not rectify infighting so there was demand resignation from some member of Man of Korea. On August 21 2013, he resigned.\n\n"}
{"id": "236753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236753", "title": "Heath hen", "text": "Heath hen\n\nThe heath hen (\"Tympanuchus cupido cupido\") was a distinctive subspecies of the greater prairie chicken, \"Tympanuchus cupido\", a large North American bird in the grouse family, or possibly a distinct species, that became extinct in 1932.\n\nHeath hens lived in the scrubby heathland barrens of coastal North America from southernmost New Hampshire to northern Virginia in historical times, but possibly south to Florida prehistorically. The prairie chickens, \"Tympanuchus\" species, on the other hand, inhabited prairies from Texas north to Indiana and the Dakotas, and in earlier times in mid-southern Canada.\n\nHeath hens were extremely common in their habitat during Colonial times, but being a gallinaceous bird, they were hunted by settlers extensively for food. In fact, many have speculated that the Pilgrims' first Thanksgiving dinner featured heath hens and not wild turkey. By the late 18th century, the heath hen had a reputation as poor man's food for being so cheap and plentiful; somewhat earlier Thomas L. Winthrop had reported that they lived on the Boston Common (presumably when it was still used to graze cows, etc.) and that servants would sometimes bargain with a new employer for \"not\" being given heath hen for food more often than two or three days a week.\n\nA first mtDNA D-loop haplotype comparison between heath hen specimens and prairie-chickens brought the unexpected result that all heath hens tested formed a group very distinct from mainland birds, being most similar genetically to greater prairie chickens from Wisconsin. A more recent study of the same parameter by Johnson and Dunn verified these results, but disagreed in the placement of the heath hen respective to its relatives, suggesting a closer relationship with the lesser prairie chicken instead.\n\nHowever, Johnson and Dunn caution against reading too much into these results: while the lesser prairie chicken is considered a distinct species and the genetically apparently equally distinct heath hen would thus likewise deserve species status. mtDNA haplotypes in small populations that have undergone bottlenecks are likely to show higher divergence than they would judging from taxonomic status alone (see also genetic drift). Thus, given the fact that all heath hen specimens from known localities studied by Johnson and Dunn are Martha's Vineyard birds – where the population may never have exceeded several thousand due to the limited space and limited genetic exchange with the mainland – it is possible that the low genetic diversity and apparent distinctness of the heath hen are an artifact of the small number of useful specimens, all from the same close-knit population.\n\nPrairie chickens were indiscriminately introduced to the Eastern Seaboard after the heath hen was gone from the mainland, but failed to thrive. There exist a considerable number of supposed heath hen specimens in public collections today, but many – all mainland specimens and those with insufficient locality information – cannot be unequivocally assumed to be heath hens. For example, a mere 7 unequivocal heath hen eggs – equivalent to a very small clutch – are known to be held in public collections today. That the genus \"Tympanuchus\" apparently evolved rapidly and therefore has high morphological but low genetic distinctness between taxa further complicates research.\nIt is also important to note that while introductions of the greater prairie chicken (\"Tympanuchus cupido pinnatus\") were occurring, true heath hens (\"Tympanuchus cupido cupido\") are distinct enough in morphological features to be separated from the greater prairie chicken. Taking a generous starting date of ~1810 when introductions could have started, and taking into account that Lewis and Clark did not even return from their expedition until 1806, gives roughly a 60-year period of possible introductions. From an evolutionary biology aspect, in a 60, or even 100-year timeframe, a species like the greater prairie chicken would not have been able to evolve to the point where he would so closely resemble the native heath hen that he could not be distinguished.\n\nA prime example of this would be in opposing the lesser prairie chicken (\"Tympanuchus pallidicinctus\") which differs from the greater prairie chicken in being smaller, lighter, and having less distinct barring, to the heath hen, which was smaller, darker, and had more distinct barring. Meaning that the lesser prairie chicken can be readily distinguished from the greater prairie chicken both morphologically and genetically (much like the heath hen) even if he were found in an area that the greater prairie\nchicken inhabited.\n\nThe apparent distinctness of the species and the failure of the early introductions raises the question of whether the heath hen was uniquely (by comparison with its relatives) adapted to the more oceanic climate of its former area of occurrence, and in consequence, whether a future attempt to establish a population of the western birds on Martha's Vineyard could be bound to fail, possibly even by competing for funding and other resources jeopardizing the extant but much declined populations of the prairie-chickens. Clearly, more research is necessary, for example by analyzing mainland specimens to determine whether they can be assigned to a taxon from molecular and morphological characters.\n\nVery similar to the greater prairie chicken of the Great Plains, but slightly smaller, the length of the bird was approximately 17 inches (43 cm) and weight was about two pounds (0.9 kg). A specimen weighing three pounds was claimed by Alexander Wilson but that figure was not verified by later ornithologists. Several key plumage characteristics separated the heath hens from their Great Plains counterparts: heath hens generally displayed a strong reddish hue in their plumage, especially in their crop area, and much thicker barring throughout the breast and sides. Their pinnae (horns) were generally pointed, and tails were a greyish brown.\n\nOwing to intense hunting pressure, the population declined rapidly. Perhaps as early as the 1840s, at any rate by 1870, all heath hens were extirpated on the mainland. There were about 300 left on the island of Martha's Vineyard, off Massachusetts, but by 1890 this number had declined to 120–200 birds, mainly due to predation by feral cats and poaching. By the late 19th century, there were about 70 left. These were protected by a hunting ban and by the establishment in 1908 of the \"Heath Hen Reserve\" (today the Manuel F. Correllus State Forest), and the population rapidly grew to almost 2000: by the mid-1910s, observing the birds on their lekking grounds had become something of a tourist attraction. However, a destructive fire during the 1916 nesting season, severe winters, an unusual influx of predatory goshawks, inbreeding, an excess number of male individuals and apparently an epidemic of blackhead disease, which might have been transmitted by poultry, brought the numbers down quickly; after a last recovery to 600 in 1920, the population began its final decline.\n\nIn 1927, only about a dozen were left – a mere two being females – despite being afforded the best protection according to contemporary science; that number had declined to a handful, all males, by the end of the year. After December 8, 1928, apparently only one male survived, lovingly nicknamed \"Booming Ben\". He was last seen on his traditional lekking ground between West Tisbury and today's Martha's Vineyard Airport on March 11, 1932 – early in the breeding season -, and thus presumably died, about 8 years old, days or only hours afterwards from unknown causes.\n\nHeath hens were one of the first bird species that Americans tried to save from extinction. As early as 1791, a bill \"for the preservation of heath-hen and other game\" was introduced in the New York State legislature. Some representatives misinterpreted the bill when it was read as an act to protect \"Indians and other \"; Although the legislation was passed, it turned out to be unenforceable.\n\nAlthough the effort to save the heath hen from extinction was ultimately unsuccessful, it paved the way for conservation of other species. The establishment of the reserve on the open shrubland of what was then called the Great Plain in the Vineyard may have accelerated the heath hen's extinction. Fires were a normal part of the environment, but with the attempt to suppress fires instead of enforcing ecological succession with controlled burns, open habitat quality decreased and undergrowth accumulated until a normally limited fire would have disastrous consequences, as it did in 1916. Lack of awareness of the region's historical fire ecology also led the state legislature to require firebreaks when protecting the heath hen.\n\nRealizing the degradation that has affected the State Forest (and although it does hold remarkable biodiversity, prevents it from being utilized to its full potential), reestablishment of the original shrubland/heath/woods mosaic and eventual introduction of the closely related Greater Prairie Chickens as an \"umbrella species\" that serves as an indicator of good habitat quality has been discussed since the late 1990s.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7372153", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7372153", "title": "Hoʻoponopono", "text": "Hoʻoponopono\n\nHooponopono (IPA [ho.ʔo.po.no.po.no]) is a Hawaiian practice of reconciliation and forgiveness. The Hawaiian word translates into English simply as \"correction\", with the synonyms \"manage\" or \"supervise\", and the antonym \"careless\". Similar forgiveness practices are performed on islands throughout the South Pacific, including Hawaii, Samoa, Tahiti and New Zealand. Traditional \"Hooponopono\" is practiced by Indigenous Hawaiian healers, often within the extended family by a family member. There is also a New Age practice that goes by the same name.\n\nIn many Polynesian cultures, it is believed that a person's errors (called \"hara\" or \"hala\") caused illness. Some believe error angers the gods, others that it attracts malevolent gods, and still others believe the guilt caused by error made one sick. \"In most cases, however, specific 'untie-error' rites could be performed to atone for such errors and thereby diminish one's accumulation of them.\"\n\nAmong the islands of Vanuatu in the South Pacific, people believe that illness usually is caused by sexual misconduct or anger. \"If you are angry for two or three days, sickness will come,\" said one local man. The therapy that counters this sickness is confession. The patient, or a family member, may confess. If no one confesses an error, the patient may die. The Vanuatu people believe that secrecy is what gives power to the illness. When the error is confessed, it no longer has power over the person.\n\nLike many other islanders, including Hawaiians, people of Tikopia in the Solomon Islands, and on Rarotonga in the Cook Islands, believe that the sins of the father will fall upon the children. If a child is sick, the parents are suspected of quarreling or misconduct. In addition to sickness, social disorder could cause sterility of land or other disasters. Harmony could be restored only by confession and apology.\n\nIn Pukapuka, it was customary to hold sort of a confessional over patients to determine an appropriate course of action in order to heal them.\n\nSimilar traditions are found in Samoa, Tahiti, and among the Maori of New Zealand.\n\n\"Hooponopono\" is defined in the \"Hawaiian Dictionary\" as:\n\n(a) \"To put to rights; to put in order or shape, correct, revise, adjust, amend, regulate, arrange, rectify, tidy up make orderly or neat, administer, superintend, supervise, manage, edit, work carefully or neatly; to make ready, as canoemen preparing to catch a wave.\"\n\n(b) \"Mental cleansing: family conferences in which relationships were set right (\"hooponopono\") through prayer, discussion, confession, repentance, and mutual restitution and forgiveness.\" \n\nLiterally, \"hoo\" is a particle used to make an actualizing verb from the following noun, as would \"to\" before a noun in English. Here, it creates a verb from the noun \"pono\", which is defined as: \"...goodness, uprightness, morality, moral qualities, correct or proper procedure, excellence, well-being, prosperity, welfare, benefit, true condition or nature, duty; moral, fitting, proper, righteous, right, upright, just, virtuous, fair, beneficial, successful, in perfect order, accurate, correct, eased, relieved; should, ought, must, necessary.\"\n\n\"Ponopono\" is defined as \"to put to rights; to put in order or shape, correct, revise, adjust, amend, regulate, arrange, rectify, tidy up, make orderly or neat.\"\n\nHawaiian scholar Nana Veary in her book, \"Change We Must: My Spiritual Journey\" wrote that ho'oponopono was a practice in Ancient Hawaii and this is supported by oral histories from contemporary Hawaiian elders. Pukui first recorded her experiences and observations from her childhood (born 1895) in her 1958 book.\n\nAlthough the word \"hooponopono\" was not used, early Hawaiian historians documented a belief that illness was caused by breaking kapu, or spiritual laws, and that the illness could not be cured until the sufferer atoned for this transgression, often with the assistance of a praying priest (\"kahuna pule\") or healing priest (\"kahuna lapaau\"). Forgiveness was sought from the gods or from the person with whom there was a dispute.\n\nPukui described it as a practice of extended family members meeting to \"make right\" broken family relations. Some families met daily or weekly, to prevent problems from erupting. Others met when a person became ill, believing that illness was caused by the stress of anger, guilt, recriminations and lack of forgiveness. Kupuna Nana Veary wrote that when any of the children in her family fell ill, her grandmother would ask the parents, \"What have you done?\" They believed that healing could come only with complete forgiveness of the whole family.\n\nHooponopono corrects, restores and maintains good relationships among family members and with their gods or God by getting to the causes and sources of trouble. Usually the most senior member of the family conducts it. He or she gathers the family together. If the family is unable to work through a problem, they turn to a respected outsider.\n\nThe process begins with prayer. A statement of the problem is made, and the transgression discussed. Family members are expected to work problems through and cooperate, not \"hold fast to the fault\". One or more periods of silence may be taken for reflection on the entanglement of emotions and injuries. Everyone's feelings are acknowledged. Then confession, repentance and forgiveness take place. Everyone releases (\"kala\") each other, letting go. They cut off the past (\"oki\"), and together they close the event with a ceremonial feast, called \"pani\", which often included eating \"limu kala\" or kala seaweed, symbolic of the release.\n\nIn a form used by the family of \"kahuna\" Makaweliweli of the island of Molokai, the completion of hooponopono is represented by giving the person forgiven a lei made from the fruit of the hala tree.\n\n\"Aunty\" Malia Craver, who worked with the Queen Liliuokalani Children's Centers (QLCC) for more than 30 years, taught courses in traditional hooponopono. On August 30, 2000, she spoke about it to the United Nations.\n\nIn the late 20th century, courts in Hawaii began to order juvenile and adult offenders to work with an elder who would conduct hooponopono for their families, as a form of alternative dispute resolution. The hooponopono is conducted in the traditional way, without court interference, with a practitioner picked by the family from a list of court-approved providers.\n\nSome native practitioners provide hooponopono to clients who otherwise might seek family counseling.\n\nIn 1976 Morrnah Simeona, regarded as a healing priest or \"kahuna lapaau\", adapted the traditional hooponopono of family mutual forgiveness to the social realities of the modern day. For this she extended it both to a general problem solving process outside the family and to a psycho-spiritual self-help rather than group process.\n\nSimeona's version is influenced by her Christian (Protestant and Catholic) education and her philosophical studies about India, China and Edgar Cayce. Like Hawaiian tradition she emphasizes prayer, confession, repentance, and mutual restitution and forgiveness. Unlike Hawaiian tradition, she describes problems only as the effects of negative karma, saying that \"you have to experience by yourself what you have done to others.\" But that you are the creator of your life circumstances was common knowledge for the people of old as \"things we had brought with us from other lifetimes.\" Any wrongdoing is memorized within oneself and mirrored in every entity and object which was present when the cause happened. As the Law of Cause and Effect predominates in all of life and lifetimes, the purpose of her version is mainly \"to release unhappy, negative experiences in past reincarnations, and to resolve and remove traumas from the 'memory banks'.\" Karmic bondages hinder the evolution of mind, so that \"(karmic) cleansing is a requisite for the expansion of awareness\". Using her 14-step-process would dissolve those bondages. She did not use mantras or conditioning exercises.\n\nHer teachings include: there is a Divine Creator who takes care of altruistic pleas of Men; \"when the phrase 'And it is done' is used after a prayer, it means Man's work ends and God's begins.\" \"Self-Identity\" signifies, e.g. during the hooponopono, that the three selves or aspects of consciousness are balanced and connected with the Divine Creator. Different from egoistic prayers, \"altruistic prayers like hooponopono, where you also pray for the release of other entities and objects, reach the Divine plane or Cosmos because of their high vibrations. From that plane the Divine energy or \"mana\" would come,\" which would transform the painful part of the memory of the wrong actions in all participants to \"Pure Light\", on whatever plane they are existing; \"all are set free\". Through this transmutation in the mind the problems will lose their energy for physical effects, and healing or balancing is begun. In this sense, Simeona's mana is not the same as the traditional Polynesian understanding of mana.\n\nPacifica Seminars, founded by Morrnah Simeona, started the first Ho'oponopono seminars in Germany. Seminars are still held on a regular basis in Germany, Poland, France, and Denmark.\n\nAfter Simeona's death in 1992, her former student and administrator, Ihaleakala Hew Len, co-authored a book with Joe Vitale called \"Zero Limits\" referring to Simeona's Hooponopono teachings. Len makes no claim to be a \"kahuna\". In contrast to Simeona's teachings, the book brings the new idea that the main objective of Hooponopono is getting to \"the state of Zero, where we would have zero limits. No memories. No identity.\" To reach this state, which Len called 'Self-I-Dentity thru Ho'oponopono', includes using the mantra, \"I love you. I'm sorry. Please forgive me. Thank you.\" It is based on Len's idea of 100% responsibility, taking responsibility for everyone's actions, not only for one's own. If one would take complete responsibility for one's life, then everything one sees, hears, tastes, touches, or in any way experiences would be one's responsibility because it is in one's life. The problem would not be with our external reality, it would be with ourselves. Total Responsibility, according to Hew Len, advocates that everything exists as a projection from inside the human being.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "313075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=313075", "title": "Identity politics", "text": "Identity politics\n\nIdentity politics are political positions based on the interests and perspectives of social groups with which people identify. Identity politics includes the ways in which people's politics are shaped by aspects of their identity through loosely correlated social organizations. Examples include social organizations based on age, religion, social class or caste, culture, dialect, disability, education, ethnicity, language, nationality, sex, gender identity, generation, occupation, profession, race, political party affiliation, sexual orientation, settlement, urban and rural habitation, and veteran status.\n\nThe term \"identity politics\" has been in use in various forms since the 1960s or 1970s, but has been applied with, at times, radically different meanings by different populations.\n\nThe term \"identity politics\" has been used in political discourse since at least the 1970s. One aim of identity politics has been for those feeling oppressed by and actively suffering under systemic social inequities to articulate their suffering and felt oppression in terms of their own experience by processes of consciousness-raising and collective action. One of the older written examples of it can be found in the April 1977 statement of the black feminist group, Combahee River Collective, which was subsequently reprinted in a number of anthologies, and Barbara Smith and the Combahee River Collective have been credited with coining the term. For example, in their terminal statement, they said: \nIdentity politics, as a mode of categorizing, are closely connected to the ascription that some social groups are oppressed (such as women, ethnic minorities, and sexual minorities); that is, the claim that individuals belonging to those groups are, by virtue of their identity, more vulnerable to forms of oppression such as cultural imperialism, violence, exploitation of labour, marginalization, or powerlessness. Therefore, these lines of social difference can be seen as ways to gain empowerment or avenues through which to work towards a more equal society.\n\nSome groups have combined identity politics and Marxist social class analysis and class consciousness — the most notable example being the Black Panther Party — but this is not necessarily characteristic of the form. Another example is MOVE, members of which mixed black nationalism with anarcho-primitivism (a radical form of green politics based on the idea that civilization is an instrument of oppression, advocating the return to a hunter gatherer society). Identity politics can be left wing or right wing, with examples of the latter being Ulster Loyalism, Islamism and Christian Identity movements.\n\nDuring the 1980s, the politics of identity became very prominent and it was linked to a new wave of social movement activism.\n\nThe mid-2010s have seen a marked rise of identity politics, including white identity politics in the United States. This phenomenon is attributed to increased demographic diversity and the prospect of whites becoming a minority in America. Such shifts have driven many to affiliate with conservative causes including those not related to diversity. This includes the presidential election of Donald Trump, who won the support of prominent white supremacists such as David Duke and Richard B. Spencer (which Trump disavowed.)\n\nThe term \"identity politics\" has been applied and misapplied retroactively to varying movements that long predate its coinage. Historian Arthur Schlesinger Jr. discussed identity politics extensively in his 1991 book \"The Disuniting of America\". Schlesinger, a strong supporter of liberal conceptions of civil rights, argues that a liberal democracy requires a common basis for culture and society to function. Rather than seeing civil society as already fractured along lines of power and powerless (according to race, ethnicity, sexuality, etc), Schlesinger suggests that basing politics on group marginalization is itself what fractures the civil polity, and that identity politics therefore works against creating real opportunities for ending marginalization. Schlesinger believes that \"movements for civil rights should aim toward full acceptance and integration of marginalized groups into the mainstream culture, rather than...perpetuating that marginalization through affirmations of difference\". \n\nBrendan O'Neill has similarly suggested that identity politics causes (rather then simply recognizes and acts on) political schisms along lines of social identity. Thus, he contrasts the politics of gay liberation and identity politics by saying \"... [Peter] Tatchell also had, back in the day, ... a commitment to the politics of liberation, which encouraged gays to come out and live and engage. Now, we have the politics of identity, which invites people to stay in, to look inward, to obsess over the body and the self, to surround themselves with a moral forcefield to protect their worldview—which has nothing to do with the world—from any questioning.\" In these and other ways, a political perspective oriented to one's own well being can be recast as causing the divisions that it insists upon making visible.\n\nIn this same vein, author Owen Jones argues that identity politics often marginalize the working class, saying that: \n\nThe gay liberation movement of the late 1960s through the mid-1980s urged lesbians and gay men to engage in radical direct action, and to counter societal shame with gay pride. In the feminist spirit of the personal being political, the most basic form of activism was an emphasis on coming out to family, friends and colleagues, and living life as an openly lesbian or gay person. While the 1970s were the peak of \"gay liberation\" in New York City and other urban areas in the United States, \"gay liberation\" was the term still used instead of \"gay pride\" in more oppressive areas into the mid-1980s, with some organizations opting for the more inclusive, \"lesbian and gay liberation\". While women and transgender activists had lobbied for more inclusive names from the beginning of the movement, the initialism LGBT, or \"Queer\" as a counterculture shorthand for LGBT, did not gain much acceptance as an umbrella term until much later in the 1980s, and in some areas not until the '90s or even '00s. During this period in the United States, identity politics were largely seen in these communities in the definitions espoused by writers such as self-identified, \"black, dyke, feminist, poet, mother\" Audre Lorde's view, that lived experience matters, defines us, and is the only thing that grants authority to speak; that, \"If I didn't define myself for myself, I would be crunched into other people's fantasies for me and eaten alive.\"\n\nBy the 2000s, in some areas of postmodern queer studies, notably those around gender, the idea of \"identity politics\" began to shift away from that of naming and claiming lived experience, and authority arising from lived experience, to one emphasizing choice and performance. Some who draw on the work of authors like Judith Butler, stress the importance of not assuming an already existing identity, but of remaking and unmaking identities through \"performance\". Writers in the field of Queer theory have at times taken this to the extent as to now argue that \"queer\", despite generations of specific use, no longer needs to refer to any specific sexual orientation at all; that it is now only about disrupting the mainstream, with author David M. Halperin arguing that straight people may now also self-identify as \"queer,\" which some believe, is a form of cultural appropriation which robs gays and lesbians of their identity and makes invisible and irrelevant the actual, lived experience that causes them to be marginalized in the first place. \"It desexualizes identity, when the issue is precisely about a sexual identity.\"\n\nThere are also supporters of identity politics who have developed their stances on the basis of Gayatri Chakravorty Spivak's work (namely, \"Can the Subaltern Speak?\") and have described some forms of identity politics as strategic essentialism, a form which has sought to work with hegemonic discourses to reform the understanding of \"universal\" goals.\n\nSome critics argue that groups based on a particular shared identity (e.g. race, or gender identity) can divert energy and attention from more fundamental issues, similar to the history of divide and rule strategies. Sociologist Charles Derber asserts that the American left is \"largely an identity-politics party\" and that it \"offers no broad critique of the political economy of capitalism. It focuses on reforms for blacks and women and so forth. But it doesn’t offer a contextual analysis within capitalism.\" Both he and David North of the Socialist Equality Party posit that these fragmented and isolated identity movements which permeate the left have allowed for a far-right resurgence. Critiques of identity politics have also been expressed on other grounds by writers such as Eric Hobsbawm, Todd Gitlin, Michael Tomasky, Richard Rorty, Sean Wilentz, Robert W. McChesney, and Jim Sleeper. Hobsbawm, in particular, has criticized nationalisms, and the principle of national self-determination adopted internationally after World War I, since national governments are often merely an expression of a ruling class or power, and their proliferation was a source of the wars of the 20th century. Hence, Hobsbawm argues that identity politics, such as queer nationalism, Islamism, Cornish nationalism or Ulster Loyalism are just other versions of bourgeois nationalism. The view that identity politics rooted in challenging racism, sexism, and the like actually obscures class inequality is widespread in the United States and many other Western nations; however, this framing ignores how class-based politics are identity politics themselves.\n\nIn her journal article \"Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics and Violence against Women of Color,\" Kimberle Crenshaw treats identity politics as a process that brings people together based on a shared aspect of their identity. Crenshaw applauds identity politics for bringing African Americans (and other non-white people), gays and lesbians, and other oppressed groups together in community and progress. However, Crenshaw also points out that frequently groups come together based on a shared political identity but then fail to examine differences among themselves within their own group: \"The problem with identity politics is not that it fails to transcend differences, as some critics charge, but rather the opposite—that it frequently conflates or ignores intragroup differences.\" Crenshaw argues that when society thinks \"black\", they think black \"male\", and when society thinks feminism, they think \"white\" woman. When considering black women, at least two aspects of their identity are the subject of oppression: their race and their sex. Crenshaw proposes instead that identity politics are useful but that we must be aware of intersectionality and the role it plays in identity politics. Nira Yuval-Davis supports Crenshaw's critiques in \"Intersectionality and Feminist Politics\" and explains that \"Identities are individual and collective narratives that answer the question 'who am/are I/we?\" \n\nIn her journal article  \"Mapping the Margins: Intersectionality, Identity Politics and Violence against Women of Color\", Crenshaw provides the example of the Clarence Thomas/Anita Hill controversy to expand on her point. Anita Hill came forward and accused Supreme Court Justice Nominee Clarence Thomas of sexual harassment; Clarence Thomas would be the second African American to serve on the Supreme Court. Crenshaw argues that when Anita Hill came forward she was deemed anti-black in the movement against racism, and though she came forward on the feminist issue of sexual harassment, she was excluded because when considering feminism, it is the narrative of white middle-class women that prevails. Crenshaw concludes that acknowledging intersecting categories when groups unite on the basis of identity politics is better than ignoring categories altogether.\n\nA \"Le Monde\"/\"IFOP\" poll in January 2011 conducted in France and Germany found that a majority felt Muslims are ‘‘scattered improperly’’; an analyst for \"IFOP\" said the results indicated something ‘‘beyond linking immigration with security or immigration with unemployment, to linking Islam with a threat to identity’’.\n\n"}
{"id": "11072261", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11072261", "title": "Impressionist mosaics", "text": "Impressionist mosaics\n\nUnlike traditional mosaics which rely on differently colored material arranged in arbitrary configurations to make an image, impressionist mosaics are created using the natural flaws and marbling in the tiles to create the impression of an image. Depending on the definition, this may be limited to arranging square, homogeneously colored tiles in a grid-like, non-overlapped fashion.\n\nUsing stones that are of relatively uniform color and texture (typically pre-cut natural gemstones such as jasper, marble, or amethyst), the resulting mosaics have a uniquely ethereal quality that distinguishes them from traditional processes. Since the technique uses uniformly cut stones, it does not require grouting. \n\nBy Roy Feinson's definition, impressionist mosaics are created by taking dozens of measurements of every tile in the artist's \"palette\". The measurements are obtained by digitally photographing each tile and separating it into a grid of sixteen equal sections and analyzing each section for color, contrast and marbling. The resultant data are stored in a database and operated on by proprietary software, which recommends placements for all the tiles. Since the tiles are generally square, the software considers all four possible rotations for each tile, which greatly increases the odds that a given tile will find a good 'home'. Each tile is equivalent to sixteen pixels in the final mosaic since its final location is a function of sixteen sections. While the software is an important component of this process, the artist must still rely on traditional hand-eye techniques to complete the image.\nCare must be taken to balance the color curves in the target image to that of the component tiles. For example, if the darkest color to be found on any of the component tiles is only a mid-tone gray, then any blacks in the target image's must be converted to mid-tone gray. This process would be repeated for the reds, greens, blues, and whites.\n\nTraditional mosaics have a history dating back to at least the fourth century BC, and employ a variety of methodologies to create their images. However, traditional mosaics share the common feature of employing small, uniformly colored materials (tesserae) to create a pattern or picture. Because the tiles can be cut into irregular shapes to conform to the base pattern, mosaisists are able to create works of astonishing detail and color. \nAlternatively, pixel tile mosaics, such as those found on the floor of the University of Toronto pool, employ standard sized tiles (generally 1 x 1 or 2 by 2 inch) in a variety of colors arranged in a uniform matrix. Each tile is a different color and represents a single 'pixel' in the final image. The resulting mosaic is typically coarse and of very low resolution.\n\nPioneering work in this field was conducted in the 1990s by California mosaic artist Roy Feinson, who because of its underlying similarities to 19th century impressionism coined the term Impressionist Mosaics.\n\nIn 2006, mosaic artists Nick Berg and Alan Roth made custom mosaics using this technique commercially available in marble and wood. Because of the increased image resolution inherent in the impressionist mosaic process, they coined the terms High Definition Mosaics and Photo-realistic Mosaics.\n"}
{"id": "30871230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30871230", "title": "Intellectual freedom", "text": "Intellectual freedom\n\nIntellectual freedom encompasses the freedom to hold, receive and disseminate ideas without restriction. Viewed as an integral component of a democratic society, intellectual freedom protects an individual's right to access, explore, consider, and express ideas and information as the basis for a self-governing, well-informed citizenry. Intellectual freedom comprises the bedrock for freedoms of expression, speech, and the press and relates to freedoms of information and privacy.\n\nThe United Nations upholds intellectual freedom as a basic human right through Article 19 of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights which asserts:\n\nThe institution of libraries in particular values intellectual freedom as part of their mission to provide and protect access to information and ideas. The American Library Association (ALA) defines intellectual freedom as \"the right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement can be explored.\"\n\nThe modern concept of intellectual freedom developed out of an opposition to book censorship. It is promoted by several professions and movements. These entities include, among others, librarianship, education, and the Free Software Movement.\n\nIntellectual freedom encompasses many areas including issues of academic freedom, Internet filtering, and censorship. Because proponents of intellectual freedom value an individual's right to choose informational concepts and media to formulate thought and opinion without repercussion, restrictions to access and barriers to privacy of information constitute intellectual freedom issues. \nIssues surrounding restrictions to access include:\nIssues concerning barriers to privacy of information include:\nWhile proponents of intellectual freedom work to prohibit acts of censorship, calls for censorship are valued as free speech. \"In expressing their opinions and concerns, would-be censors are exercising the same rights librarians seek to protect when they confront censorship. In making their criticisms known, people who object to certain ideas are exercising the same rights as those who created and disseminated the material to which they object.\" The first amendment right to voice opinions and persuade others—both for the exclusion and inclusion of content and concepts—should be protected.\n\nThe contemporary definition, limits, and inclusions of intellectual freedom primarily developed through a number of common law judgments by the United States Supreme Court regarding the First Amendment and policy statements of groups dedicated to the advocacy and defense of civil liberties.\n\nIn his oft-quoted dissent on the free speech case of two defendants convicted of inciting anti-war sentiment and action, Supreme Court justice Louis Brandeis aligns the freedoms of speech and expression with the freedom of thought as follows:\n\nA case in which the Supreme Court sustains the conviction of a woman for anti-government speech akin to terrorism. In his opinion on the matter, Justice Brandeis delineates the role of freedom of thought to inform free speech, attributing the value of intellectual freedom as a civil liberty to the founders of the United States, asserting:\n\nA case in which the US Supreme Court deliberated whether a citizen's Fourth or Fifth Amendment rights were violated when evidence to convict him of bootlegging was obtained through wiretapping. Justice Brandeis provides precedence for the inclusion of intellectual freedom as a constitutional right in his dissenting opinion, claiming the US Constitution's authors \"recognized the significance of man's spiritual nature, his feelings, and his intellect\" and \"sought to protect Americans in their beliefs, their thoughts, their emotions and their sensations.\" Brandeis would ultimately argue for the right to privacy, another important dimension of intellectual freedom, as an extension of American civil rights.\n\nIn the Supreme Court's upheld decision to deny citizenship to Rosika Schwimmer, a Hungarian immigrant, because she refused to pledge to take up arms to defend the United States out of her pacifist views and beliefs, Justice Oliver Wendell Holmes, Jr. personally disagrees with the defendant's views but professionally upholds Schwimmer's position when he writes,\n\nThe American Library Association adopts the Library Bill of Rights affirming \"that all libraries are forums for information and ideas.\" Originally a three-point declaration to guide services in American free public libraries including statements on \"growing intolerance, suppression of free speech, and censorship,\" today the Library Bill of Rights includes six basic policies to guide library services that affirm intellectual freedom.\n\nFollowing World War II, the United Nations adopts The Universal Declaration of Human Rights as a \"foundation of human rights law\" consisting of 30 articles on international freedoms among the nations of the UN General Assembly. Articles 18 and 19 specifically affirm rights to freedoms of thought, opinion, and expression, as well as the right to \"seek, receive, and impart information and ideas through any media and regardless of frontiers.\"\n\nIn his 1953 acceptance speech for the Lauterbach Award for support of civil liberties, Supreme Court justice William O. Douglas affirms that \"safety of our civilization lies in making freedom of thought and freedom of speech vital, vivid features of life\" and condemns \"[r]estriction of free thought and free speech,\" labeling it \"the most dangerous of all subversions,\" and an \"un-American act.\"\n\nThe American Library Association adopts The Freedom to Read, a key library policy endorsing an individual's civil rights to free expression and intellectual freedom through the exchange of ideas through reading and writing. The ALA's The Freedom to Read includes seven affirmations and responsibilities to protect an individual's right to read as a basic tenet of democracy. In 1979, the ALA expands upon The Freedom to Read, adopting The Freedom to View, a policy which extends the understanding of intellectual freedom to include the visual acquisition of information through visual media such as art, video, movies, pictures, the internet, and more.\n\nA case in which the US Supreme Court established the Imminent Lawless Action standard. The Supreme Court overturned KKK leader, Clarence Brandenburg's conviction of one to ten years in prison and a fine of $1000 sentenced by the Court of Common Pleas of Hamilton County. The Court ruled that hate speech is protected under First Amendment rights as long as it does not incite violence. This ruling established the modern doctrine of clear and present danger which determines what limits may be placed on First Amendment freedoms. Only speech that directly incites lawless action may be restricted. \n\nThe profession of librarianship views intellectual freedom as a core responsibility. The International Federation of Library Associations and Institutions' (IFLA) Statement on Libraries and Intellectual Freedom \"calls upon libraries and library staff to adhere to the principles of intellectual freedom, uninhibited access to information and freedom of expression and to recognize the privacy of library user.\" IFLA urges its members to actively promote the acceptance and realization of intellectual freedom principles. IFLA states: \"The right to know is a requirement for freedom of thought and conscience; freedom of thought and freedom of expression are necessary conditions for freedom of access to information.\"\n\nIndividual national library associations expand upon these principles when defining intellectual freedom for their constituents. For example, the American Library Association defines intellectual freedom as: \"[T]he right of every individual to both seek and receive information from all points of view without restriction. It provides for free access to all expressions of ideas through which any and all sides of a question, cause or movement may be explored. ... Intellectual freedom encompasses the freedom to hold, receive and disseminate ideas.\"\n\nThe Canadian Library Association's \"Position Statement on Intellectual Freedom\" states that all persons possess \"the fundamental right ... to have access to all expressions of knowledge, creativity and intellectual activity, and to express their thoughts publicly.\" This right was enshrined into law in 2004 in British Columbia, which grants protection against litigation for libraries for their holdings.\n\nMany other national library associations have similarly adopted statements on intellectual freedom.\n\nThe ALA's Office for Intellectual Freedom organizes the relationship between librarianship and intellectual freedom into five distinct categories:\nLibraries protect, defend, and advocate for intellectual freedom through a variety of organizations and resources.\n\nThe Intellectual Freedom Committee (IFC) is a council committee of the American Library Association (ALA), composed of 11 ALA members who are appointed by ALA's Council to serve 2-year terms. The Intellectual Freedom Committee functions as an advisory and educational arm of the ALA's commitment to intellectual freedom. The IFC recommends policies concerning intellectual freedom and censorship, drafts guidelines for library professionals to advocate and defend intellectual freedom including The Universal Right to Free Expression and Importance of Education to Intellectual Freedom, and drafts policy statements adopted by the ALA including several interpretation statements on the Library Bill of Rights such as:\nThe IFC drafts and submits statements to the ALA as part of the committee's charge to \"recommend such steps as may be necessary to safeguard the rights of library users, libraries, and librarians, in accordance with the first amendment to the united states constitution and the Library Bill of Rights as adopted by the ALA Council [and] work closely with the Office for Intellectual Freedom and with other units and officers of the association in matters touching intellectual freedom and censorship.\"\n\nFormed in 1940 and originally titled 'Committee on Intellectual Freedom to Safeguard the Rights of Library Users to Freedom of Inquiry,' the committee has also been known as 'Committee on Intellectual Freedom' before the currently titled 'Intellectual Freedom Committee.' Following the ALA's formation of the IFC to promote intellectual freedom on a national level, many regional and state library associations have established additional intellectual freedom committees on the state level.\n\nThe American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom (OIF) serves as an administrative arm of ALA committees such as the Intellectual Freedom Committee and the Committee on Professional Ethics. Principally charged with implementing ALA policies concerning intellectual freedom, the OIF focuses efforts on intellectual freedom education and coordination of intellectual freedom activities, events, and organizations and views the \"responsibility of the office to recommend, develop, implement, and maintain a total intellectual freedom program for ALA.\nOIF functions include:\n\nThe ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table (IFRT) functions as a forum for ALA members to participate in intellectual freedom initiatives and efforts. The IFRT serves as a communication channel and promotional group for ALA members seeking increasing participation and knowledge in intellectual freedom concepts and issues. While the IFRT mirrors other intellectual freedom organizations through monitoring, support, and educational efforts, the IFRT provides more varied intellectual freedom discussion forums for librarians in two ways:\nIn addition to encouraging and fostering a community of librarians learning, promoting, and defending intellectual freedom principles, the IFRT administers three intellectual freedom awards (see below) and produces an Intellectual Freedom Report to members of the American Library Association four times per year.\n\nThe Freedom to Read Foundation was incorporated in 1969 by members of the American Library Association. Although founded by ALA members, the FTRF is a separate organization from ALA with separate membership focused upon the legal defense of intellectual freedom for libraries, librarians, library staff, and library trustees. While the FTRF participates in intellectual freedom education efforts, the FTRF primarily aims to \"support and defend librarians whose positions are jeopardized because of their resistance to abridgments of the First Amendment; and to set legal precedent for the freedom to read on behalf of all the people.\" In the foundation's commitment to \"the principle that the solution to offensive speech is more speech, and the suppression of speech on the grounds that it gives offense to some infringes on the rights of all to a free, open and robust marketplace of ideas,\" the FTRF awards and distributes grants to aid intellectual freedom litigation, directly participates as a party to intellectual freedom litigation, and submits amicus curiae briefs in freedom of speech and freedom of the press cases. FTRF assistance to library staff whose jobs have been jeopardized due to their defense of intellectual freedom \"attempts to obviate the choice between upholding intellectual freedom principles and\" what lauded librarian and library-science scholar Lester Asheim called \"three square meals a day.\" \nThe organization's charter describes four purposes for the Foundation, including:\n\nThe LeRoy C. Merritt Humanitarian Fund provides financial assistance to librarians who are:\nOriginally established by the Freedom to Read Foundation in 1970, the Merritt Fund now functions independently, governed by three trustees elected by donors to the fund. The fund's namesake LeRoy C. Merritt participated in the defense and advocacy of intellectual freedom throughout his life in a variety of ways including authoring numerous intellectual freedom and anti-censorship books and articles, editing the ALA's Newsletter on Intellectual Freedom from 1962 to 1970, as the first recipient of the Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award, and, donating the entirety of the Downs prize to the Freedom to Read Foundation, as the FTRF's first benefactor.\n\nThe American Library Association's Office for Intellectual Freedom publishes the \"Intellectual Freedom Manual\", now in its ninth edition. Considered an authoritative resource on intellectual freedom for library professionals, it is also of use to members of the public who wish to stay informed of the most recent policies and developments in the field. As well as providing an historical overview of the topic, it is divided into parts which cover key issues such as the Library Bill of Rights, protecting the freedom to read, intellectual freedom and the law, and preserving, protecting and working for intellectual freedom. Expanding on the new addition to the manual is the section on Privacy; an Interpretation of the Library Bill of Rights \n\nMany of the entities listed above collaborate with one another and other organizations including:\n\nSince 1969, the Graduate School of Library and Information Science (GSLIS) at the University of Illinois annually awards the Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award. GSLIS faculty named this award for Robert B. Downs on his 25th anniversary as director of the School in honor of his role as a champion for intellectual freedom. Downs, also a former President and Vice-President of the ALA, focused his library career working against, and voicing opposition to, literary censorship and authored many books and publications on topics of censorship and intellectual freedom. Awarded to acknowledge individuals or groups who have furthered the cause of intellectual freedom in libraries, the Robert B. Downs Intellectual Freedom Award is \"[g]ranted to those who have resisted censorship or efforts to abridge the freedom of individuals to read or view materials of their choice, the award may be in recognition of a particular action or long-term interest in, and dedication to, the cause of intellectual freedom.\"\n\nSince 1986, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table biennially sponsors the Eli M. Oboler Memorial Award. Consisting of a $500 prize and certificate, the award acknowledges \"the best published work in the area of intellectual freedom.\" The IFRT posthumously named this award for Eli M. Oboler, a former Idaho State University librarian known as a “champion of intellectual freedom who demanded the dismantling of all barriers to freedom of expression.” Oboler, also a former member and officer in numerous intellectual freedom organizations including the Intellectual Freedom Round Table, the ALA Intellectual Freedom Committee, the Freedom to Read Foundation, and the Idaho Library Association's Intellectual Freedom Committee, authored over 200 publications, many on censorship and intellectual freedom, including:\nAwarded to acknowledge authorship in the area of intellectual freedom, the IFRT considers \"single articles (including review pieces), a series of thematically connected articles, books, or manuals published on the local, state or national level in English or English translation\" for receipt of the Eli M. Oboler Award.\n\nSince 1976, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table annually sponsors the John Phillip Immroth Memorial Award. Consisting of a $500 prize and a citation, the award \"honors the courage, dedication, and contribution of a living individual, group, or organization who has set the finest kind of example for the defense and furtherance of the principles of intellectual freedom.\" Upon his death in 1979, the award was renamed for John Phillip Immroth, the founder and first Chair of the Intellectual Freedom Round Table. The Immroth award differs from other intellectual freedom awards in that it recognizes \"extraordinary personal courage in the defense of intellectual freedom.\"\n\nSince 1984, the ALA's Intellectual Freedom Round Table annually sponsors a regional intellectual freedom award, currently named the Gerald Hodges Intellectual Freedom Chapter Relations Award. Consisting of a $1000 prize and citation, the award \"recognizes an intellectual freedom focused organization that has developed a strong multi-year, ongoing program or a single, one-year project that exemplifies support for intellectual freedom, patron confidentiality, and anti-censorship efforts.\" The IFRT posthumously named this award for Gerald Hodges, a longtime ALA officer who devoted his library career to his passion for both intellectual freedom and chapter relations until his death in 2006. In 2010 the Gerald Hodges Intellectual Freedom Award replaced the IFRT State and Regional Intellectual Freedom Achievement Award which had been annually awarded \"to the most innovative and effective intellectual freedom project covering a state or region.\"\n\nSince 1982, the American Association of School Librarians (AASL), a division of the ALA, annually awards the Intellectual Freedom Award. Consisting of a $2000 prize to the recipient and a $1000 prize to the school library program of the recipient's choice, the award honors a school librarian \"for upholding the principles of intellectual freedom as set forth by the American Association of School Librarians and the American Library Association.\"\n\nSince 2007, the Public Library Association (PLA), a division of the ALA, annually awards the Gordon M. Conable Award. Consisting of a $1500 prize and commemorative plaque, the award \"honors a public library staff member, a library trustee, or a public library that has demonstrated a commitment to intellectual freedom and the Library Bill of Rights.\"\n\nIntellectual freedom is often suppressed under authoritarian rule and such governments often claim to have nominal intellectual freedom, although the degree of freedom is a matter of dispute. The former USSR, for example, claimed to provide intellectual freedom, but some analysts in the West have stated that the degree of intellectual freedom was nominal at best.\n\nDuring times of crises there is often debate within democratic countries as to the balance between national security, a successful conclusion to the crises and the maintenance of democratic civil liberties. This debate often takes the form of to what extent a democratic government can curtail civil liberties in the interest of successfully ending the crises.\n\nSuch a debate existed in Canada during the Second World War. Since the First World War the War Measures Act had existed as legislation in Canada to allow the government to operate with greater powers during times of national crises, such as in wartime. During the Second World War the federal Liberal government of Prime Minister William Lyon Mackenzie King enacted the measure by Order-in-Council. The War Measures Act and with it the Defence of Canada Regulations were passed by the federal government in early September 1939. With their implementation civil liberties, especially the intellectual freedom of political dissenters, were curtailed. As well, in Quebec the Union Nationale government of Premier Maurice Duplessis enacted “An Act Respecting Communist Propaganda”, which came to be known as the Padlock Act. It gave Premier Duplesis, as Attorney General of Quebec, the power to close (hence padlock) any premises used for the purposes of “propagating Communism or Bolshevism.” The Act was criticized by Eugene Forsey, for example, as being far too broad in definition and that it gave the Premier the power to suppress any opinions that he wished to. Forsey cited examples of such abuse in the Canadian Forum.\n\nAll of these measures were criticized by writers in the Canadian Forum such as Eugene Forsey and Frank R. Scott and by the League for Social Reconstruction in general; a group to which both Forsey and Scott belonged. Indeed, during the Second World War the Canadian Forum printed an anonymous monthly column outlining civil liberties abuses by Canadian authorities.\n\nIn the aftermath of the September 11th attacks issues concerning the suspension or reduction of civil liberties in the name of national security have arisen. Legislation such as the Homeland Security Act (HSA) of 2002 and the USA PATRIOT Act (often shortened to the Patriot Act) of 2001 encroach upon intellectual freedom rights to privacy and freedom of information to enhance domestic security from potential terrorist threats and acts.\n\nThe Patriot Act in particular has come under fire from numerous intellectual freedom organizations. The Electronic Privacy Information Center (EPIC) has criticized the Patriot Act as unconstitutional, especially when \"the private communications of law-abiding American citizens might be intercepted incidentally,\" Additionally, the Electronic Frontier Foundation (EFF) maintains that the lower standard applied to wiretaps \"gives the FBI a 'blank check' to violate the communications privacy of countless innocent Americans\". The American Library Association (ALA) has partnered with American libraries in opposition to a provision in Section 215 which allows the FBI to apply for an order to produce materials that assist in an investigation undertaken to protect against international terrorism or clandestine intelligence activities. The \"tangible things\" that can be targeted include \"books, records, papers, documents, and other items\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "985963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=985963", "title": "Lambda-CDM model", "text": "Lambda-CDM model\n\nThe ΛCDM (Lambda cold dark matter) or Lambda-CDM model is a parametrization of the Big Bang cosmological model in which the universe contains a cosmological constant, denoted by Lambda (Greek Λ), associated with dark energy, and cold dark matter (abbreviated CDM). It is frequently referred to as the standard model of Big Bang cosmology because it is the simplest model that provides a reasonably good account of the following properties of the cosmos:\n\nThe model assumes that general relativity is the correct theory of gravity on cosmological scales.\nIt emerged in the late 1990s as a concordance cosmology, after a period of time when disparate observed properties of the universe appeared mutually inconsistent, and there was no consensus on the makeup of the energy density of the universe.\n\nThe ΛCDM model can be extended by adding cosmological inflation, quintessence and other elements that are current areas of speculation and research in cosmology.\n\nSome alternative models challenge the assumptions of the ΛCDM model. Examples of these are modified Newtonian dynamics, modified gravity, theories of large-scale variations in the matter density of the universe, and scale invariance of empty space.\n\nMost modern cosmological models are based on the cosmological principle, which states that our observational location in the universe is not unusual or special; on a large-enough scale, the universe looks the same in all directions (isotropy) and from every location (homogeneity).\n\nThe model includes an expansion of metric space that is well documented both as the red shift of prominent spectral absorption or emission lines in the light from distant galaxies and as the time dilation in the light decay of supernova luminosity curves. Both effects are attributed to a Doppler shift in electromagnetic radiation as it travels across expanding space. Although this expansion increases the distance between objects that are not under shared gravitational influence, it does not increase the size of the objects (e.g. galaxies) in space. It also allows for distant galaxies to recede from each other at speeds greater than the speed of light; local expansion is less than the speed of light, but expansion summed across great distances can collectively exceed the speed of light.\n\nThe letter formula_1 (lambda) represents the cosmological constant, which is currently associated with a vacuum energy or dark energy in empty space that is used to explain the contemporary accelerating expansion of space against the attractive effects of gravity. A cosmological constant has negative pressure, formula_2, which contributes to the stress-energy tensor that, according to the general theory of relativity, causes accelerating expansion. The fraction of the total energy density of our (flat or almost flat) universe that is dark energy, formula_3, is currently (2015) estimated to be 0.692 ± 0.012, or even 0.6911 ± 0.0062 based on Planck satellite data.\n\nDark matter is postulated in order to account for gravitational effects observed in very large-scale structures (the \"flat\" rotation curves of galaxies; the gravitational lensing of light by galaxy clusters; and enhanced clustering of galaxies) that cannot be accounted for by the quantity of observed matter. Cold dark matter is \"non-baryonic\", i.e. it consists of matter other than protons and neutrons (and electrons, by convention, although electrons are not baryons); \"cold\", i.e. its velocity is far less than the speed of light at the epoch of radiation-matter equality (thus neutrinos are excluded, being non-baryonic but not cold); \"dissipationless\", i.e. it cannot cool by radiating photons; and \"collisionless\", i.e. the dark matter particles interact with each other and other particles only through gravity and possibly the weak force. The dark matter component is currently (2013) estimated to constitute about 26.8% of the mass-energy density of the universe.\n\nThe remaining 4.9% (2013) comprises all ordinary matter observed as atoms, chemical elements, gas and plasma, the stuff of which visible planets, stars and galaxies are made. The great majority of ordinary matter in the universe is unseen, since visible stars and gas inside galaxies and clusters account for less than 10% of the ordinary matter contribution to the mass-energy density of the universe.\n\nAlso, the energy density includes a very small fraction (~ 0.01%) in cosmic microwave background radiation, and not more than 0.5% in relic neutrinos. Although very small today, these were much more important in the distant past, dominating the matter at redshift > 3200.\n\nThe model includes a single originating event, the \"Big Bang\", which was not an explosion but the abrupt appearance of expanding space-time containing radiation at temperatures of around 10 K. This was immediately (within 10 seconds) followed by an exponential expansion of space by a scale multiplier of 10 or more, known as cosmic inflation. The early universe remained hot (above 10,000 K) for several hundred thousand years, a state that is detectable as a residual cosmic microwave background, or CMB, a very low energy radiation emanating from all parts of the sky. The \"Big Bang\" scenario, with cosmic inflation and standard particle physics, is the only current cosmological model consistent with the observed continuing expansion of space, the observed distribution of lighter elements in the universe (hydrogen, helium, and lithium), and the spatial texture of minute irregularities (anisotropies) in the CMB radiation. Cosmic inflation also addresses the \"horizon problem\" in the CMB; indeed, it seems likely that the universe is larger than the observable particle horizon.\n\nThe model uses the Friedmann–Lemaître–Robertson–Walker metric, the Friedmann equations and the cosmological equations of state to describe the observable universe from right after the inflationary epoch to present and future.\n\nThe expansion of the universe is parametrized by a dimensionless scale factor formula_4 (with time formula_5 counted from the birth of the universe), defined relative to the present day, so formula_6; the usual convention in cosmology is that subscript 0 denotes present-day values, so formula_7 is the current age of the universe. The scale factor is related to the observed redshift formula_8 of the light emitted at time formula_9 by\n\nThe expansion rate is described by the time-dependent Hubble parameter, formula_11, defined as\nwhere formula_13 is the time-derivative of the scale factor. The first Friedmann equation gives the expansion rate in terms of the matter+radiation density the curvature and the cosmological constant \n\nwhere as usual is the speed of light and is the gravitational constant. \nA critical density formula_15 is the present-day density, which gives zero curvature formula_16, assuming the cosmological constant formula_1 is zero, regardless of its actual value. Substituting these conditions to the Friedmann equation gives\n\nwhere formula_19 is the reduced Hubble constant.\nIf the cosmological constant were actually zero, the critical density would also mark the dividing line between eventual recollapse of the universe to a Big Crunch, or unlimited expansion. For the Lambda-CDM model with a positive cosmological constant (as observed), the universe is predicted to expand forever regardless of whether the total density is slightly above or below the critical density; though other outcomes are possible in extended models where the dark energy is not constant but actually time-dependent.\n\nIt is standard to define the present-day density parameter formula_20 for various species as the dimensionless ratio\nwhere the subscript formula_22 is one of formula_23 for baryons, formula_24 for cold dark matter, formula_25 for radiation (photons plus relativistic neutrinos), and formula_26 or formula_1 for dark energy.\n\nSince the densities of various species scale as different powers of formula_28, e.g. formula_29 for matter etc.,\nthe Friedmann equation can be conveniently rewritten in terms of the various density parameters as\nwhere w is the equation of state of dark energy, and assuming negligible neutrino mass (significant neutrino mass requires a more complex equation). The various formula_31 parameters add up to formula_32 by construction.\nIn the general case this is integrated by computer to give\nthe expansion history formula_33 and also observable distance-redshift relations for any chosen values of the cosmological parameters, which can then be compared with observations such as supernovae and baryon acoustic oscillations.\n\nIn the minimal 6-parameter Lambda-CDM model, it is assumed that curvature formula_34 is zero and formula_35, so this simplifies to\n\nObservations show that the radiation density is very small today, formula_37; if this term is neglected\nthe above has an analytic solution\nwhere formula_39\nthis is fairly accurate for formula_40 or formula_41million years.\nSolving for formula_42 gives the present age of the universe formula_43 in terms of the other parameters.\n\nIt follows that the transition from decelerating to accelerating expansion (the second derivative formula_44 crossing zero) occurred when\n\nwhich evaluates to formula_46 or formula_47 for the best-fit parameters estimated from the Planck spacecraft.\n\nThe discovery of the Cosmic Microwave Background (CMB) in 1964 confirmed a key prediction of the Big Bang cosmology. From that point on, it was generally accepted that the universe started in a hot, dense state and has been expanding over time. The rate of expansion depends on the types of matter and energy present in the universe, and in particular, whether the total density is above or below the so-called critical density. During the 1970s, most attention focused on pure-baryonic models, but there were serious challenges explaining the formation of galaxies, given the small anisotropies in the CMB (upper limits at that time). In the early 1980s, it was realized that this could be resolved if cold dark matter dominated over the baryons, and the theory of cosmic inflation motivated models with critical density. During the 1980s, most research focused on cold dark matter with critical density in matter, around 95% CDM and 5% baryons: these showed success at forming galaxies and clusters of galaxies, but problems remained; notably, the model required a Hubble constant lower than preferred by observations, and observations around 1988-1990 showed more large-scale galaxy clustering than predicted. These difficulties sharpened with the discovery of CMB anisotropy by COBE in 1992, and several modified CDM models, including ΛCDM and mixed cold and hot dark matter, came under active consideration through the mid-1990s. The ΛCDM model then became the leading model following the observations of accelerating expansion in 1998, and was quickly supported by other observations: in 2000, the BOOMERanG microwave background experiment measured the total (matter–energy) density to be close to 100% of critical, whereas in 2001 the 2dFGRS galaxy redshift survey measured the matter density to be near 25%; the large difference between these values supports a positive Λ or dark energy. Much more precise spacecraft measurements of the microwave background from WMAP in 2003 – 2010 and Planck in 2013 - 2015 have continued to support the model and pin down the parameter values, most of which are now constrained below 1 percent uncertainty.\n\nThere is currently active research into many aspects of the ΛCDM model, both to refine the parameters and possibly detect deviations. In addition, ΛCDM has no explicit physical theory for the origin or physical nature of dark matter or dark energy; the nearly scale-invariant spectrum of the CMB perturbations, and their image across the celestial sphere, are believed to result from very small thermal and acoustic irregularities at the point of recombination. A large majority of astronomers and astrophysicists support the ΛCDM model or close relatives of it, but Milgrom, McGaugh, and Kroupa are leading critics, attacking the dark matter portions of the theory from the perspective of galaxy formation models and supporting the alternative MOND theory, which requires a modification of the Einstein field equations and the Friedmann equations as seen in proposals such as MOG theory or TeVeS theory. Other proposals by theoretical astrophysicists of cosmological alternatives to Einstein's general relativity that attempt to account for dark energy or dark matter include f(R) gravity, scalar–tensor theories such as galileon theories, brane cosmologies, the DGP model, and massive gravity and its extensions such as bimetric gravity.\n\nIn addition to explaining pre-2000 observations,\nthe model has made a number of successful predictions: notably the existence of the\nbaryon acoustic oscillation feature, discovered in 2005 in the predicted location; and the statistics of weak gravitational lensing, first observed in 2000 by several teams. The polarization of the CMB, discovered in 2002 by DASI is now a dramatic success: in the 2015 Planck data release, there are seven observed peaks in the temperature (TT) power spectrum, six peaks in the temperature-polarization (TE) cross spectrum, and five peaks in the polarization (EE) spectrum. The six free parameters can be well constrained by the TT spectrum alone, and then the TE and EE spectra can be predicted theoretically to few-percent precision with no further adjustments allowed: comparison of theory and observations shows an excellent match.\n\nExtensive searches for dark matter particles have so far shown no well-agreed detection;\nthe dark energy may be almost impossible to detect in a laboratory, and its value is unnaturally small compared to naive theoretical predictions.\n\nComparison of the model with observations is very successful on large scales (larger than galaxies, up to the observable horizon), but may have some problems on sub-galaxy scales, possibly predicting too many dwarf galaxies and too much dark matter in the innermost regions of galaxies. This problem is called the \"small scale crisis\". These small scales are harder to resolve in computer simulations, so it is not yet clear whether the problem is the simulations, non-standard properties of dark matter, or a more radical error in the model.\n\nIt has been argued that the ΛCDM model is built upon a foundation of conventionalist stratagems, rendering it unfalsifiable in the sense defined by Karl Popper.\n\nThe simple ΛCDM model is based on six parameters: physical baryon density parameter; physical dark matter density parameter; the age of the universe; scalar spectral index; curvature fluctuation amplitude; and reionization optical depth. In accordance with Occam's razor, six is the smallest number of parameters needed to give an acceptable fit to current observations; other possible parameters are fixed at \"natural\" values, e.g. total density parameter = 1.00, dark energy equation of state = −1. (See below for extended models that allow these to vary.)\n\nThe values of these six parameters are mostly not predicted by current theory (though, ideally, they may be related by a future \"Theory of Everything\"), except that most versions of cosmic inflation predict the scalar spectral index should be slightly smaller than 1, consistent with the estimated value 0.96. The parameter values, and uncertainties, are estimated using large computer searches to locate the region of parameter space providing an acceptable match to cosmological observations. From these six parameters, the other model values, such as the Hubble constant and the dark energy density, can be readily calculated.\n\nCommonly, the set of observations fitted includes the cosmic microwave background anisotropy, the brightness/redshift relation for supernovae, and large-scale galaxy clustering including the baryon acoustic oscillation feature. Other observations, such as the Hubble constant, the abundance of galaxy clusters, weak gravitational lensing and globular cluster ages, are generally consistent with these, providing a check of the model, but are less precisely measured at present.\n\nParameter values listed below are from the Planck Collaboration Cosmological parameters 68% confidence limits for the base ΛCDM model from Planck CMB power spectra, in combination with lensing reconstruction and external data (BAO + JLA + H). See also Planck (spacecraft).\n\nMassimo Persic and Paolo Salucci firstly estimated the baryonic density today present in ellipticals, spirals, groups and clusters of galaxies.\nThey performed an integration of the baryonic mass-to-light ratio over luminosity (in the following formula_48), weighted with the luminosity function formula_49 over the previously mentioned classes of astrophysical objects: \n\nThe result was:\n\nwhere formula_52.\n\nNote that this value is much lower than the prediction of standard cosmic nucleosynthesis formula_53, so that stars and gas in galaxies and in galaxy groups and clusters account for less than 10% of the primordially synthesized baryons. This issue is known as the problem of the \"missing baryons\".\n\nExtended models allow one or more of the \"fixed\" parameters above to vary, in addition to the basic six; so these models join smoothly to the basic six-parameter model in the limit that the additional parameter(s) approach the default values. For example, possible extensions of the simplest ΛCDM model allow for spatial curvature (formula_54 may be different from 1); or quintessence rather than a cosmological constant where the equation of state of dark energy is allowed to differ from −1. Cosmic inflation predicts tensor fluctuations (gravitational waves). Their amplitude is parameterized by the tensor-to-scalar ratio (denoted formula_55), which is determined by the unknown energy scale of inflation. Other modifications allow hot dark matter in the form of neutrinos more massive than the minimal value, or a running spectral index; the latter is generally not favoured by simple cosmic inflation models.\n\nAllowing additional variable parameter(s) will generally \"increase\" the uncertainties in the standard six parameters quoted above, and may also shift the central values slightly. The Table below shows results for each of the possible \"6+1\" scenarios with one additional variable parameter; this indicates that, as of 2015, there is no convincing evidence that any additional parameter is different from its default value.\n\nSome researchers have suggested that there is a running spectral index, but no statistically significant study has revealed one. Theoretical expectations suggest that the tensor-to-scalar ratio formula_55 should be between 0 and 0.3, and the latest results are now within those limits.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7267556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7267556", "title": "List of waste management acronyms", "text": "List of waste management acronyms\n\nThe following article contains a list of acronyms and initials used in the waste management industry.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1820751", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1820751", "title": "Location model", "text": "Location model\n\nA location (spatial) model refers to any monopolistic competition model in economics that demonstrates consumer preference for particular brands of goods and their locations. Examples of location models include Hotelling’s Location Model, Salop’s Circle Model, and hybrid variations.\n\nIn traditional economic models, consumers display preference given the constraints of a product characteristic space. Consumers perceive certain brands with common characteristics to be close substitutes, and differentiate these products from their unique characteristics. For example, there are many brands of chocolate with nuts and others without them. Hence, the chocolate with nuts is a constraint of its product characteristic space.\n\nOn the other hand, consumers in location models display preference for both the utility gained from a particular brand’s characteristics as well as its geographic location; these two factors form an enhanced “product characteristic space”. Consumers are now willing to sacrifice pleasure from products for a closer geographic location, and vice versa. For example, consumers realize high costs for products that are located far from their spatial point (e.g. transportation costs, time, etc.) and also for products that deviate from their ideal features. Firms have greater market power when they satisfy the consumer’s demand for products at closer distance or preferred products.\n\nIn 1929, Hotelling developed a location model that demonstrates the relationship between location and pricing behavior of firms. He represented this notion through a line of fixed length. Assuming all consumers are identical (except for location) and consumers are evenly dispersed along the line, both the firms and consumer respond to changes in demand and the economic environment.\n\nIn Hotelling’s Location Model, firms do not exercise variations in product characteristics; firms compete and price their products in only one dimension, geographic location. Therefore, traditional usage of this model should be used for consumers who perceive products to be perfect substitutes or as a foundation for modern location models.\n\nAssume that the line in Hotelling’s location model is actually a street with fixed length.\n\nAll consumers are identical, except they are uniformly located at two equal quadrants formula_1 and formula_2, which is divided in the center by point formula_3. Consumers face a transportation/time cost for reaching a firm, denoted by formula_4; they have no preferences for the firms.\n\nThere are two firms in this scenario, Firm x and Firm y; each one is located at a different end of the street, is fixed in location and sells an identical product.\n\nGiven the assumptions of the Hotelling model, consumers will choose either firm as long as the combined price formula_5 and transportation cost formula_4 of the product is less than the competitive firm.\n\nFor example, if both firms sell the product at the same price formula_5, consumers in quadrants formula_1 and formula_2 will pick the firm closest to them. The price realized by the consumer is\n\nformula_10, where formula_11 is the price of the product including the cost of transportation.\n\nAs long as formula_4 for Firm x is greater than Firm y, consumers will travel to Firm y to purchase their product; this minimizes formula_11. Only the consumers who live at point formula_3, the halfway point between the two firms, will be indifferent between the two product locations.\n\nAssume that the line in Hotelling’s location model is actually a street with fixed length.\n\nAll consumers are identical, except they are uniformly located in four quadrants formula_1, formula_2, formula_4, and formula_18; the halfway point between the endpoints is point formula_3. Consumers face an equal transportation/time cost for reaching a firm, denoted by formula_4; they have no preferences for the firms.\n\nThere are two firms in this scenario, Firm x and Firm y; each one is located at a different end of the street, is able to relocate at no cost, and sells an identical product.\n\nIn this example, Firm x and Firm y will maximize their profit by increasing their consumer pool. Firm x will move slightly toward Firm y, in order to gain Firm y’s customers. In response, Firm y will move slightly toward Firm x to re-establish its loss, and increase the pool from its competitor. The cycle repeats until both firms are at point formula_3, the halfway point of the street where each firm has the same number of customers. This result is known as Hotelling's law.\n\nIf only Firm x can relocate without costs and Firm y is fixed, Firm x will move to the side of Firm y where the consumer pool is maximized. Consequently, the profits gained from Firm X significantly increase, while Firm Y incurs a significant loss.\n\nOne of the most famous variations of Hotelling’s location model is Salop’s circle model. Similar to the previous spatial representations, the circle model examines consumer preference with regards to geographic location. However, Salop introduces two significant factors: 1) firms are located around a circle with no end-points, and 2) it allows the consumer to choose a second, heterogeneous good.\n\nAssume that the consumers are equidistant from one another around the circle. The model will occur for one time period, in which only one product is purchased. The consumer will have a choice of purchasing variations of Product A (a differentiated product) or Product B (an outside good; undifferentiated product).\n\nThere are two firms also located equidistant around the circle. Each firm offers a variation of Product A, and an outside firm offers a good, Product B.\n\nIn this example, the consumer wants to purchase their ideal variation of Product A. They are willing to purchase the product, given that it is within the constraint of their utility, transportation/distance costs, and price.\n\nThe utility formula_22 for a particular product at distance formula_18 is represented in the following equation:\n\nformula_24\n\nWhere formula_22 is the utility from a superior brand, formula_26 denotes the rate at which an inferior brand lowers the utility from the superior brand, formula_18 is the location of the superior brand, and formula_28 is the location of the consumer. The distance between the brand and the consumer is thereby given in formula_29.\n\nThe consumer’s primary goal is to maximize consumer surplus, i.e. purchase the product that best satisfies any combination of price and quality. Although the consumer may receive more pleasure from their superior brand, the inferior brand may maximize the surplus formula_30 which is given by:\n\nformula_31, where the difference is between the utility of a product at location formula_18 and the price formula_5.\n\nNow suppose the consumer also has the option to purchase an outside, undifferentiated Product B. The consumer surplus gained from Product B is denoted by formula_34.\n\nTherefore, for a given amount of money, the consumer will purchase the superior variation of Product A over Product B as long as\n\nformula_35, where the consumer surplus from the superior variation of Product A is greater than the consumer surplus gained from Product B.\n\nAlternatively, the consumer only purchases the superior variation of product A as long as\n\nformula_36, where the difference between the surplus of the superior variation of Product A and the surplus gained from Product B is positive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5397532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5397532", "title": "Louisine Havemeyer", "text": "Louisine Havemeyer\n\nLouisine Waldron Elder Havemeyer (July 28, 1855 – January 6, 1929) was an art collector, feminist, and philanthropist. In addition to being a patron of impressionist art, she was one of the more prominent contributors to the suffrage movement in the United States. The impressionist painter Edgar Degas and feminist Alice Paul were among the renowned recipients of the benefactor's support.\n\nLouisine Waldron Elder was born in New York City on July 28, 1855, to a merchant George W. Elder (1831–1873) and his wife, Matilda Adelaide Waldron (1834–1907). She was the second of four children: Anne Eliza Elder, later Mrs. Henry Norcross Munn (1853-1917), Adaline Deliverance Mapes Elder, later Mrs. Samuel Twyford Peters (1859-1943), and brother George Waldron Elder (1860-1916).\n\nShortly after her father's death, Louisine Elder and her family travelled to Europe for a three-year stay. They set sail on May 25, 1873, aboard the \"S.S. Calabria\", accompanied by their extended family, aunt Amanda McCready and family, and cousin Mary Mapes Dodge, the editor of \"St. Nicholas Magazine\" and author of \"Hans Brinker; or the Silver Skates\". Mary Mapes Dodge's sister Sophie Mapes Tolles was living in Paris with her friend Emily Sartain, studying art in the atelier of Evariste Luminais and boarding in the \"pensionnat\" of Mme. Del Sarte, widow of François Del Sarte, famed teacher of the art of expression. Louisine and her sister Addie joined Sophie Mapes Tolles and Emily Sartain in boarding at Mme. Del Sarte's, and it was during this time that Emily Sartain introduced Louisine to Mary Cassatt. Fellow Philadelphians, Cassatt and Sartain had studied together at the Pennsylvania Academy of Fine Arts in the early 1860s and travelled to Europe together in the fall of 1871. During this time, Mary Cassatt took Louisine Elder under her wing, becoming a mentor and encouraging her to make her first art acquisition, a pastel by Edgar Degas. As time passed, particularly after Louisine married Henry O. Havemeyer, Cassatt became an advisor to the Havemeyers, helping to build their art collection and facilitating the working relationship which they would have with the Impressionist Artists, including Edgar Degas, Edouard Manet, Camille Pissarro and Claude Monet. A lifelong friendship developed between Louisine Havemeyer and Mary Cassatt, who later made several pastels of Louisine and her children.\n\nTogether with her husband, Louisine would build perhaps the finest art collection in America. Her three-story mansion at Fifth Avenue and East 66th Street in New York was filled with the finest possible examples of works by Manet, El Greco, Rembrandt, and Corot. The home was decorated 1889-1890 by Louis Comfort Tiffany and Samuel Colman, who made it an elegant showplace for their patron's varied and important collections. Henry Clay Frick, J.P. Morgan, and Mrs. Isabella Stewart Gardner were among the collectors with which Mr. and Mrs. Havemeyer would have known and competed.\n\nOn August 22, 1883, a decade after her father's death, Louisine married Henry O. Havemeyer of the American Sugar Refining Company.*\n\nLouisine and Henry Osborne had three children:\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki> \"(Prior to his marriage to Louisine, Henry was married to Louisine's aunt Mary Louise Elder (1847-1897), but that marriage ended in divorce.)\"\n\nIn addition to her standing as an early and important collector of Impressionist art, Louisine Havemeyer was an advocate of women's rights.\nAfter her husband's death in 1907, Mrs. Havemeyer focused her attention on the women's suffrage movement. In 1912 she lent her artistic collection to Knoedler's Gallery in New York to raise money for the cause. In 1913, she founded the National Woman's Party with the radical suffragist Alice Paul. (The organization was previously known as the \"Congressional Union for Woman Suffrage\".) She repeated the money raising art exhibition at Knoedler's in 1915. \n\nWith the financial backing of Mrs. Havemeyer and others like her, Ms. Paul launched an increasingly confrontational series of protests that agitated for the right to vote. Paul's most famous efforts were the 1913 National Suffrage Parade, which produced a riot on the eve of President Woodrow Wilson's first inauguration, and the wartime picketing of the White House. During the latter Paul used portions of the President's speeches heralding the defense of democracy in Europe which she masterfully contrasted with the denial of liberty to American women. When jailed for obstructing traffic in 1917, she hunger struck, bringing tremendous pressure to bear on the Congress and Wilson Administration. The Nineteenth Amendment, which extended voting rights to women, was debated by Congress, gained the necessary 2/3 votes in 1919, was sent to the states for ratification, and gained the necessary 3/4 of states ratifying in 1920. \n\nLouisine Havemeyer became a well-known suffragist, publishing two articles about her work for the cause in Scribner's Magazine. The first, entitled \"The Prison Special: Memories of a Militant\", appeared in May 1922, and the other, \"The Suffrage Torch: Memories of a Militant\" appeared in June the same year. In 1912 and 1915, Mrs. Havemeyer organized exhibitions of art works from her collection at Knoedler Gallery to raise funds to support suffrage efforts. She participated in marches, much to the dismay of her children , down New York's famed Fifth Avenue and addressed a standing room only audience at Carnegie Hall upon the completion of a nationwide speaking tour. A famous photograph of Mrs. Havemeyer shows her with an electric torch, similar in design to that of the Statue of Liberty, among other prominent suffragists. Her attempt to burn an effigy of President Wilson outside the White House in 1919 drew national attention.\n\nAfter a period of failing health, Mrs. Havemeyer died in 1929. Mrs. Havemeyer is interred at Green-Wood Cemetery in Brooklyn, New York. The terms of her will left a few choice paintings to the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City. The final bequest, made possible by the generosity of her children, included nearly two-thousand works that enrich nearly every segment of the museum's collections.\n\nMany Tiffany pieces from her Fifth Avenue home, including a magnificent peacock mantelpiece decoration, and a chandelier are on permanent display at the University of Michigan Museum of Art. A portion of the Music Room furniture suite is on view at the Shelburne Museum.\n\nLouisine's children would continue to build upon their family's legacy as art collectors. Louisine's daughter Electra Havemeyer Webb collected American fine and folk paintings and sculpture that helped to found the Shelburne Museum. The museum showcases a \"collection of collections\" in fine examples of early American homes and public buildings; a general store, meeting house, log cabin, and even a steamship dot the grounds. Her great-grandson, John Wilmerding, is a well known professor of art, collector, and curator, and is best known as a prolific author of books on American art. Her daughter Adeline and son Horace Havemeyer, and Horace Havemeyer, Jr. bequeathed several works from Vermeer, Goya, Corot, Manet, and others to the National Gallery of Art.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41457976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41457976", "title": "METIS", "text": "METIS\n\nMETIS is a software package for graph partitioning that implements various multilevel algorithms. METIS' multilevel approach has three phases and comes with several algorithms for each phase:\nThe final partition computed during the third phase (the refined partition projected onto G) is a partition of the original graph.\n\n"}
{"id": "28883826", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28883826", "title": "Maywand District murders", "text": "Maywand District murders\n\nThe Maywand District killings were the murders of at least three Afghan civilians perpetrated by a group of U.S. Army soldiers in 2010, during the War in Afghanistan. The soldiers, who referred to themselves as the \"Kill Team\", were members of the 3rd Platoon, Bravo Company, 2nd Battalion, 1st Infantry Regiment and 5th Brigade, 2nd Infantry Division. They were based at FOB Ramrod in Maiwand, from Kandahar Province of Afghanistan.\n\nDuring the summer of 2010, the military charged five members of the platoon with murder of three Afghan civilians in Kandahar Province and collecting their body parts as trophies. In addition, seven soldiers were charged with crimes such as hashish use, impeding an investigation, and attacking the whistleblower, Private First Class Justin Stoner.\n\nIn March 2011, U.S. Army Specialist Jeremy Morlock pleaded guilty to three counts of premeditated murder. He told the court that he had helped to kill unarmed native Afghans in faked combat situations. Under a plea deal, Morlock received 24 years in prison for murdering three Afghan civilians in return for testimony against other soldiers. Staff Sergeant Calvin Gibbs, the highest-ranking soldier and the ringleader, was also convicted on three counts of premeditated murder and sentenced to life in prison. Private First Class Andrew Holmes pleaded guilty to murder without premeditation and was sentenced to seven years in prison. Specialist Adam C. Winfield, who informed his father after the first murder and whose father attempted to alert the Army, pleaded guilty to manslaughter and was sentenced to three years in prison. In total, eleven of the twelve soldiers charged were convicted of crimes. All charges against the twelfth soldier, Specialist Michael Wagnon, were dropped by the U.S. military \"in the interest of justice\" without further explanation. PFC Justin Stoner, who initiated the case by reporting the murders to his superiors, was not charged.\n\nAll of the three staged killings of Afghan civilians occurred in the Maywand District of Afghanistan:\n\n\n\"Der Spiegel\" published three photos of U.S. soldiers posing with the bodies of Afghans they had killed. One of the photos shows SPC Jeremy Morlock next to one of them. He appears to be smiling and raising the head of a corpse by the hair. Other images published later in \"Rolling Stone\" include one of two unidentified Afghans cuffed together around a milestone and wearing a cardboard handwritten sign made out of a MRE package box that read \"Talibans are Dead\". Other photos were taken of mutilated body parts, among them one of a head being maneuvered with a stick. Two videos were also published, one of two possibly armed Afghans on a motorcycle gunned down by members of another battalion of the 5th Stryker brigade called \"Motorcycle Kill\", and one called \"Death Zone\" of gunsight footage with jeerings heard in the background showing two Afghans suspected of planting an IED killed in an airstrike with Apocalyptica single \"En Vie\" as a soundtrack. Senior officials at NATO's International Security Assistance Force in Kabul have compared the pictures published to the images of U.S. soldiers abusing prisoners in Abu Ghraib in Iraq.\n\nGibbs used medical shears to sever several fingers that he kept as a form of human trophy collecting. He gave one of them to Holmes, who kept it dried in a Ziploc bag.\n\nFive of the Army soldiers faced murder charges while seven others were charged with participating in a coverup.\n\nDavid Bram from Vacaville, California was charged with conspiracy to commit assault and battery, unlawfully striking another soldier, violating a lawful order, dereliction of duty, cruelty and maltreament and endeavoring to impede an investigation. In May 2011 additional charges were filed against Bram including solicitation to commit premeditated murder, aggravated assault on Afghan civilians, planting evidence and unlawfully discussing murder scenarios with subordinates. He was convicted by an enlisted panel sitting as a general court-martial of conspiracy to commit assault and battery, failure to obey a general order, dereliction of duty, maltreatment of a subordinate, assault consummated by battery, obstruction of justice, and solicitation of another to commit murder. Bram was sentenced to a dishonorable discharge, reduction to the lowest enlisted grade, and five years in prison eligible for parole after serving about 3 years and four months of his five-year sentence. The U.S. Army Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and sentence, and the Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces denied review.\n\nThe Kill Team ringleader, Staff Sergeant Calvin Gibbs, from Billings, Montana, was the highest-ranking soldier in the case. He was charged with conspiracy and three counts of premeditated murder for plotting to kill three Afghan civilians and then murdering them.\n\nA report in \"The Guardian\" said that soldiers told the Army's Criminal Investigation Command (CID) that Gibbs bragged of his exploits while serving in the Iraq War, saying how easily one could \"toss a grenade at someone and kill them.\" Prosecutors said Gibbs was found in possession of \"finger bones, leg bones and a tooth taken from Afghan corpses\".\n\nGibbs was convicted by a military jury on 15 counts, including the premeditated murder of Mudin, Agha and Adahdad as well as illegally cutting off pieces of their corpses and planting weapons to make the men appear to be Taliban fighters. In November 2011, Gibbs was sentenced to life in prison with the possibility of parole after 10 years minus the 547 days of pretrial confinement. He expressed regret for human trophy collecting but not for the killings in which he participated, claiming that all were justified.\n\nAndrew Holmes's attorneys argued they were constrained in defending him by the Army's decision to conceal photos of the man he had allegedly shot in January. The National Institute of Military Justice argued that the gruesome corpse photos should be made public.\n\nHolmes has also said Morlock threatened his life if he told anyone that the killing of Gul Mudin was staged and unnecessary. A doctor testified at Holmes's trial that there were no machine gun wounds on the victim that prosecutors said was shot by Holmes's machine gun. Another soldier testified that the body was riddled with wounds and that it appeared to him that it was Holmes's weapon that killed Mudin.\n\nIn September 2011 Holmes pleaded guilty to murder without premeditation and was sentenced to 7 years in prison. He was released from prison on October 25, 2015.\n\nJones, of Pomona, California, faced charges that he beat up another soldier and fired at Afghan civilians who did not pose a threat to him. He was sentenced to seven months in prison and demotion to the rank of private.\n\nKelly, of Montesano, Washington, was convicted of conspiring to harm SPC Justin Stoner. He was sentenced to 60 days' hard labor and discharged from the Army.\n\nPFC Moore, of Severna Park, Maryland, faced the fewest charges among the group. Moore pleaded guilty to using hashish during the deployment. He was demoted to private and had to forfeit half a month's pay.\n\nSPC Corey Moore, of Redondo Beach, California, pleaded guilty that he kicked a witness and stabbed one of the corpses. He was sentenced to 60 days' hard labor and a bad conduct discharge.\n\nJeremy Morlock, a 22-year-old Army specialist from Wasilla, Alaska, was sentenced to 22 years in prison, reduction to the lowest enlisted grade and a dishonorable discharge by a military tribunal. Morlock pleaded guilty to three counts of premeditated murder, conspiracy, obstruction of justice and illegal drug use. He will become eligible for parole after serving 7 years in federal prison. He has agreed to testify against the other soldiers allegedly involved. During his hearing he was asked by Judge Lieutenant Colonel Kwasi Hawks \"Were you going to shoot at (civilians) to scare them and it got out of hand?\". Morlock replied: \"The plan was to kill people, sir\". Morlock challenged his guilty plea, but the Army Court of Criminal Appeals affirmed the conviction and sentence.\n\nMorlock's mother accused the U.S. government of scapegoating him: \"I think the government is just playing these guys as scapegoats. The leaders dropped the ball. Who was watching over all this?\" she said in a \"Seattle Times\" interview.\n\nQuintal was given a bad-conduct discharge and sentenced to 90 days hard labor in a plea deal for frequently using drugs during his combat deployment, joining an assault on a comrade and keeping digital photos of Afghan casualties. He is also required to testify against others in the case.\n\nRobert Stevens, an Army medic from Portland, Oregon, knew Gibbs while serving with him in A-52, the Brigade Commander's Personnel Security Detachment, where they served under CPT Samuel Lynn. The two maintained a close friendship and remained in contact after Gibbs had been transferred from A-52 to 2–1 Infantry. SSG Stevens was sentenced to nine months in prison as part of a plea deal to testify against 11 other Lewis-McChord based Stryker soldiers. He pleaded guilty to four charges including shooting \"in the direction of\" two Afghan farmers for no reason. Stevens said Gibbs ordered him to shoot on the two farmers and that he regretted \"not trying to stop Staff Sergeant Gibbs from trying to kill innocent people.\"\n\nPFC Justin Stoner was the soldier who caused the investigation to begin. He caught a few members of his unit smoking hashish and as a result was later beaten by unit members. When his injuries were taken up his chain of command, he had to explain what happened. He then admitted he knew of murders committed by SSG Gibbs and other unit members, which opened up the case. Stoner was not charged and was honorably discharged in 2012.\n\nChristopher Winfield, the father of platoon member SPC Adam C. Winfield, attempted to alert the Army of the \"kill team's\" existence when his son explained the situation from Afghanistan via a Facebook chat after the first killing. In response to the news from his son, Christopher Winfield called the Army inspector general's 24-hour hotline, the office of Senator Bill Nelson (D-Fla.), and a sergeant at Joint Base Lewis-McChord who told him to call the Army's Criminal Investigation Division. He then contacted the Fort Lewis command center and spoke to a sergeant on duty who agreed that SPC Winfield was in potential danger but he had to report the crime to his superiors before the Army could take action.\n\nOn August 5, 2011, Winfield, charged with premeditated murder and conspiracy to commit murder, pleaded guilty under a plea deal to involuntary manslaughter and use of an illegal controlled substance. The involuntary manslaughter charge stems from Winfield's failure to intervene and prevent the other soldiers from carrying out the attack against the Afghan in U.S. custody. Under the plea deal he didn't admit to the killing of Mullah Adahdad. He claimed that he fired his automatic weapon away from Adahdad but that he did nothing to stop the murder. He was sentenced to 3 years in prison. He was released from prison in August 2012.\n\nIn 2011 Wagnon faced the following charges: possessing a human skull fragment, conspiracy to harm Afghans, premeditated murder, assaulting noncombatants, trying to destroy evidence. After pretrial hearings an Army investigating officer twice recommended that prosecutors drop the charges and in February 2011, Lewis-McChord senior commander Maj. Gen. Lloyd Miles dismissed them ending the Army's prosecution.\n\nThe US Army issued an apology for the photos, stating that \"These court-martial proceedings speak for themselves. The photos appear in stark contrast to the discipline, professionalism and respect that have characterized our soldiers' performance during nearly 10 years of sustained operations.\" In a Department of Defense Press release on March 28, 2011 the Army stated:\n\nAccording to a secret US Army investigative report obtained by \"Der Spiegel\", Colonel Harry Tunnell's (of the 5th Stryker Brigade) \"inattentiveness to administrative matters … may have helped create an environment in which misconduct could occur.\" However the report according to Der Spiegel cleared him of responsibility stating there was no 'causal relationship' between the killings and his \"aggressive leadership style\". At least a dozen media organizations have filed Freedom of Information Act requests for the report.\n\nThe Army Times reported on the investigation into Harry Tunnell's leadership of the 5th Stryker Brigade and its conclusions. The brigade, was reported to be \"rife with lapses of discipline, misdirection and mixed signals about its mission.\" Tunnell's leadership, which the report says included, a \"lack of emphasis on administrative matters such as command inspections and urinalysis, 'may have helped create an environment in which misconduct could occur,' the investigation found\".\n\nA 2013 documentary film, titled \"The Kill Team\" reports on the murders and the people involved.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44142", "title": "Metric system", "text": "Metric system\n\nThe metric system is an internationally recognised decimalised system of measurement. It is in widespread use, and where it is adopted, it is the only or most common system of weights and measures (see metrication). It is now known as the International System of Units (SI). It is used to measure everyday things such as the mass of a sack of flour, the height of a person, the speed of a car, and the volume of fuel in its tank. It is also used in science, industry and trade.\n\nIn its modern form, it consists of a set of base units including \"metre\" for length, \"kilogram\" for mass, \"second\" for time and \"ampere\" for electrical current, and a few others, which together with their derived units, can measure any physical quantity. \"Metric system\" may also refer to other systems of related base and derived units defined before the middle of the 20th century, some of which are still in limited use today.\n\nThe metric system was designed to have properties that make it easy to use and widely applicable, including units based on the natural world, decimal ratios, prefixes for multiples and sub-multiples, and a structure of base and derived units. It is also a coherent system, which means that its units do not introduce conversion factors not already present in equations relating quantities. It has a property called \"rationalisation\" that eliminates certain constants of proportionality in equations of physics.\n\nThe units of the metric system, originally taken from observable features of nature, are now defined by phenomena such as the microwave frequency of a caesium atomic clock which accurately measures seconds. One unit, the kilogram, remains defined in terms of a man-made artefact, but scientists recently voted to change the definition to one based on Planck's constant via a Kibble balance. The new definition is expected to be formally propagated in 2019.\n\nWhile there are numerous named derived units of the metric system, such as watt and lumen, other common quantities such as velocity and acceleration do not have their own unit, but are defined in terms of existing base and derived units such as metres per second for velocity.\n\nThough other currently or formerly widespread systems of weights and measures continue to exist, such as the British imperial system and the US customary system of weights and measures, in those systems most or all of the units are now defined in terms of the metric system, such as the US \"foot\" which is now a defined decimal fraction of a metre.\n\nThe metric system is also extensible, and new base and derived units are defined as needed in fields such as radiology and chemistry. The most recent derived unit, the katal, for catalytic activity, was added in 1999. Recent changes are directed toward defining base units in terms of invariant constants of physics to provide more precise realisations of units for advances in science and industry.\n\nThe modern metric system consists of four electromechanical base units representing seven fundamental dimensions of measure: length, mass, time, electromagnetism, thermodynamic temperature, luminous intensity, and quantity of substance.\nThe units are:\n\nTogether they are sufficient for measuring any known quantity, without reference to further quantities or phenomena.\n\nThe metre, ampere, candela, and mole are all defined in terms of other base units. For example, the speed of light is defined as 299792458 metres per second, and the metre is derived from that constant and the definition of a second. As a result, in dimensional analysis, they remain wholly separate concepts.\n\nThere are currently 22 derived units with special names in the metric system, these are defined in terms of the base units or other named derived units.\n\nEight of these units are electromagnetic quantities:\n\nFour of these units are mechanical quantities:\n\nFive units represent measures of electromagnetic radiation and radioactivity:\n\nTwo units are measures of circular arcs and spherical surfaces:\n\nThree units are miscellaneous:\n\nAlthough SI, as published by the CGPM, should, in theory, meet all the requirements of commerce, science, and technology, certain customary units of measure have acquired established positions within the world community. In order that such units are used consistently around the world, the CGPM catalogued such units in Tables 6 to 9 of the SI brochure. These categories are:\n\nThe SI symbols for the metric units are intended to be identical, regardless of the language used but unit names are ordinary nouns and use the character set and follow the grammatical rules of the language concerned. For example, the SI unit symbol for kilometre is \"km\" everywhere in the world, even though the local language word for the unit name may vary. Language variants for the kilometre unit name include: ' (Italian), ' (German), ' (Dutch), ' (French), ' (Greek), ' (Portuguese), ' (Spanish) and ' (Russian).\n\nVariations are also found with the spelling of unit names in countries using the same language, including differences in American English and British spelling. For example, \"meter\" and \"liter\" are used in the United States whereas \"metre\" and \"litre\" are used in other English-speaking countries. In addition, the official US spelling for the rarely used SI prefix for ten is \"deka\". In American English the term \"metric ton\" is the normal usage whereas in other varieties of English \"tonne\" is common. \"Gram\" is also sometimes spelled \"gramme\" in English-speaking countries other than the United States, though this older usage is declining.\n\nIn SI, which is a coherent system, the unit of power is the \"watt\", which is defined as \" joule per second\". In the US customary system of measurement, which is non-coherent, the unit of power is the \"horsepower\", which is defined as \"550 foot-pounds per second\" (the pound in this context being the pound-force). Similarly, neither the US gallon nor the imperial gallon is cubic foot or cubic yard— the US gallon is 231 cubic inches and the imperial gallon is 277.42 cubic inches.\n\nThe concept of coherence was only introduced into the metric system in the third quarter of the 19th century; in its original form the metric system was non-coherent—in particular the litre was 0.001 m and the are (from which the hectare derives) was 100 m. However the units of mass and length were related to each other through the physical properties of water, the gram having been designed as being the mass of one cubic centimetre of water at its freezing point.\n\nThe base units used in the metric system must be realisable. Each of the definitions of the base units in SI is accompanied by a defined \"mise en pratique\" [practical realisation] that describes in detail at least one way in which the base unit can be measured. Where possible, definitions of the base units were developed so that any laboratory equipped with proper instruments would be able to realise a standard without reliance on an artefact held by another country. In practice, such realisation is done under the auspices of a mutual acceptance arrangement (MAA).\n\nThe standard metre is defined as exactly 1/299,792,458 of the distance that light travels in a second. The realisation of the metre depends in turn on precise realisation of the second. There are both astronomical observation methods and laboratory measurement methods that are used to realise units of the standard metre.\nBecause the speed of light is now exactly defined in terms of the metre, more precise measurement of the speed of light does not result in a more accurate figure for its velocity in standard units, but rather a more accurate definition of the metre. The accuracy of the measured speed of light is considered to be within 1 m/s,\nand the realisation of the metre is within about 3 parts in 1,000,000,000, or an order of 10 parts.\n\nThe kilogram is defined by the mass of a man-made artefact of platinum-iridium held in a laboratory in France.\nReplicas made in 1879 at the time of the artefact's fabrication and distributed to signatories of the Metre Convention serve as \"de facto\" standards of mass in those countries. Additional replicas have been fabricated since as additional countries have joined the convention. The replicas are subject to periodic validation by comparison to the original, called the IPK. It has become apparent that either the IPK or the replicas or both are deteriorating, and are no longer comparable: they have diverged by 50 μg since fabrication, so figuratively, the accuracy of the kilogram is no better than 5 parts in a hundred million or within an order of 10 parts. A proposed redefinition of SI base units is expected to include replacing the IPK with an exact definition of Planck's constant, which will then define the kilogram in terms of the second and metre.\n\nAlthough the metric system has changed and developed since its inception, its basic concepts have hardly changed. Designed for transnational use, it consisted of a basic set of units of measurement, now known as base units. Derived units were built up from the base units using logical rather than empirical relationships while multiples and submultiples of both base and derived units were decimal-based and identified by a standard set of prefixes.\n\nLike most units of measure, the units of the metric system were based on perceptual quantities of the natural world. But they also had definitions in terms of stable relationships in that world: a metre was defined not by the span of a man's arms like a \"toise\", but on a quantitative measure of the earth. A kilogram was defined by a volume of water, whose linear dimensions were fractions of the unit of length. The earth was not easy to measure, nor was it uniformly shaped, but the principle that units of measure were to be based on quantitative relationships among invariant facets of the physical world was established. The units of the metric system today still adhere to that principle, but the relationships used are based on the physics of nature, rather than its sensory dimensions.\n\nThe metric system base units were originally adopted because they represented fundamental orthogonal dimensions of measurement corresponding to how we perceive nature: a spatial dimension, a time dimension, one for the effect of gravitation, and later, a more subtle one for the dimension of an \"invisible substance\" known as electricity or more generally, electromagnetism. One and only one unit in each of these dimensions was defined, unlike older systems where multiple perceptual quantities with the same dimension were prevalent, like inches, feet and yards or ounces, pounds and tons. Units for other quantities like area and volume, which are also spacial dimensional quantities, were derived from the fundamental ones by logical relationships, so that a unit of square area for example, was the unit of length squared.\n\nMany derived units were already in use before and during the time the metric system evolved, because they represented convenient abstractions of whatever base units were defined for the system, especially in the sciences. So analogous units were scaled in terms of the metric units, and their names adopted into the system. Many of these were associated with electromagnetism. Other perceptual units, like volume, which were not defined in terms of base units, were incorporated into the system with definitions in the metric base units, so that the system remained simple. It grew in number of units, but the system retained a uniform structure.\n\nSome customary systems of weights and measures had duodecimal ratios, which meant quantities were conveniently divisible by 2, 3, 4, and 6. But it was difficult to do arithmetic with things like pound or foot. There was no system of notation for successive fractions: for example, of of a foot was not an inch or any other unit. But the system of counting in decimal ratios did have notation, and the system had the algebraic property of multiplicative closure: a fraction of a fraction, or a multiple of a fraction was a quantity in the system, like of which is . So a decimal radix became the ratio between unit sizes of the metric system.\n\nIn the metric system, multiples and submultiples of units follow a decimal pattern.\n\nA common set of decimal-based prefixes that have the effect of multiplication or division by an integer power of ten can be applied to units that are themselves too large or too small for practical use. The concept of using consistent classical (Latin or Greek) names for the prefixes was first proposed in a report by the French Revolutionary Commission on Weights and Measures in May 1793. The prefix \"kilo\", for example, is used to multiply the unit by 1000, and the prefix \"milli\" is to indicate a one-thousandth part of the unit. Thus the \"kilogram\" and \"kilometre\" are a thousand grams and metres respectively, and a \"milligram\" and \"millimetre\" are one thousandth of a gram and metre respectively. These relations can be written symbolically as:\n\nIn the early days, multipliers that were positive powers of ten were given Greek-derived prefixes such as \"kilo-\" and \"mega-\", and those that were negative powers of ten were given Latin-derived prefixes such as \"centi-\" and \"milli-\". However, 1935 extensions to the prefix system did not follow this convention: the prefixes \"nano-\" and \"micro-\", for example have Greek roots. During the 19th century the prefix \"myria-\", derived from the Greek word μύριοι (\"mýrioi\"), was used as a multiplier for .\n\nWhen applying prefixes to derived units of area and volume that are expressed in terms of units of length squared or cubed, the square and cube operators are applied to the unit of length including the prefix, as illustrated below.\nPrefixes are not usually used to indicate multiples of a second greater than 1; the non-SI units of minute, hour and day are used instead. On the other hand, prefixes are used for multiples of the non-SI unit of volume, the litre (l, L) such as millilitres (ml).\n\nEach variant of the metric system has a degree of coherence—the derived units are directly related to the base units without the need for intermediate conversion factors. For example, in a coherent system the units of force, energy and power are chosen so that the equations\n\nhold without the introduction of unit conversion factors. Once a set of coherent units have been defined, other relationships in physics that use those units will automatically be true. Therefore, Einstein's mass–energy equation, , does not require extraneous constants when expressed in coherent units.\n\nThe CGS system had two units of energy, the erg that was related to mechanics and the calorie that was related to thermal energy; so only one of them (the erg) could bear a coherent relationship to the base units. Coherence was a design aim of SI, which resulted in only one unit of energy being defined – the joule.\n\nMaxwell's equations of electromagnetism contained a factor relating to steradians, representative of the fact that electric charges and magnetic fields may be considered to emanate from a point and propagate equally in all directions, i.e. spherically. This factor appeared awkwardly in many equations of physics dealing with the dimensionality of electromagnetism and sometimes other things.\n\nThe International System of Units is the modern metric system. It is based on the Metre-Kilogram-Second-Ampere (MKSA) system of units from early in the 20th century. It also includes numerous coherent derived units for common quantities like power (watt) and irradience (lumen). Electrical units were taken from the International system then in use. Other units like those for energy (joule) were modeled on those from the older CGS system, but scaled to be coherent with MKSA units. Two additional base units, \"degree Kelvin\" equivalent to degree Centigrade for thermodynamic temperature, and \"candela\", roughly equivalent to the international candle unit of illumination, were introduced. Later, another base unit, the \"mole\", a unit of mass equivalent to Avogadro's number of specified molecules, was added along with several other derived units.\n\nThe system was promulgated by the General Conference on Weights and Measures (French: \"Conférence générale des poids et mesures\" – CGPM) in 1960. At that time, the metre was redefined in terms of the wavelength of a spectral line of the krypton-86 atom, and the standard metre artefact from 1889 was retired.\n\nToday, the International system of units consists of 7 base units and innumerable coherent derived units including 22 with special names. The last new derived unit, the \"katal\" for catalytic activity, was added in 1999. Some of the base units are now realised in terms of invariant constants of physics. As a consequence, the speed of light has now become an exactly defined constant, and defines the metre as of the distance light travels in a second. The kilogram remains defined by a man-made artefact of platinum-iridium, and it is deteriorating. The range of decimal prefixes has been extended to those for 10, \"yotta\", and 10, \"yocto\", which are unfamiliar because nothing in our everyday lives is that big or that small.\n\nThe International System of Units has been adopted as the official system of weights and measures by all nations in the world except for Myanmar, Liberia, and the United States, while the United States is the only industrialised country where the metric system is not the predominant system of units.\n\nA number of variants of the metric system evolved, all using the \"Mètre des Archives\" and \"Kilogramme des Archives\" (or their descendants) as their base units, but differing in the definitions of the various derived units.\nIn 1832, Gauss used the astronomical second as a base unit in defining the gravitation of the earth, and together with the gram and millimetre, became the first system of mechanical units.\n\nSeveral systems of electrical units were defined following discovery of Ohm's law in 1824.\n\nThe centimetre–gram–second system of units (CGS) was the first coherent metric system, having been developed in the 1860s and promoted by Maxwell and Thomson. In 1874, this system was formally promoted by the British Association for the Advancement of Science (BAAS). The system's characteristics are that density is expressed in , force expressed in dynes and mechanical energy in ergs. Thermal energy was defined in calories, one calorie being the energy required to raise the temperature of one gram of water from 15.5 °C to 16.5 °C. The meeting also recognised two sets of units for electrical and magnetic properties – the electrostatic set of units and the electromagnetic set of units.\n\nThe CGS units of electricity were cumbersome to work with. This was remedied at the 1893 International Electrical Congress held in Chicago by defining the \"international\" ampere and ohm using definitions based on the metre, kilogram and second.\n\nIn 1901, Giovanni Giorgi showed that by adding an electrical unit as a fourth base unit, the various anomalies in electromagnetic systems could be resolved. The metre–kilogram–second–coulomb (MKSC) and metre–kilogram–second–ampere (MKSA) systems are examples of such systems.\n\nThe International System of Units (\"Système international d'unités\" or SI) is the current international standard metric system and is also the system most widely used around the world. It is an extension of Giorgi's MKSA system—its base units are the metre, kilogram, second, ampere, kelvin, candela and mole.\nThe MKS (Metre, Kilogram, Second) system came into existence in 1889, when artefacts for the metre and kilogram were fabricated according to the convention of the Metre. Early in the 20th century, an unspecified electrical unit was added, and the system was called MKSX. When it became apparent that the unit would be the ampere, the system was referred to as the MKSA system, and was the direct predecessor of the SI.\n\nThe metre–tonne–second system of units (MTS) was based on the metre, tonne and second – the unit of force was the sthène and the unit of pressure was the pièze. It was invented in France for industrial use and from 1933 to 1955 was used both in France and in the Soviet Union.\n\nGravitational metric systems use the kilogram-force (kilopond) as a base unit of force, with mass measured in a unit known as the hyl, \"Technische Mass Einheit\" (TME), mug or metric slug. Although the CGPM passed a resolution in 1901 defining the standard value of acceleration due to gravity to be 980.665 cm/s, gravitational units are not part of the International System of Units (SI).\n\nThe dual usage of or confusion between metric and non-metric units and confusion of metric symbols have resulted in a number of serious incidents. These include:\n\nDuring its evolution, the metric system has adopted many units of measure. The introduction of SI rationalised both the way in which units of measure were defined and also the list of units in use. These are now catalogued in the official SI Brochure. The table below lists the units of measure in this catalogue and shows the conversion factors connecting them with the equivalent units that were in use on the eve of the adoption of SI.\n\nThe SI Brochure also catalogues certain non-SI units that are widely used with the SI in matters of everyday life or units that are exactly defined values in terms of SI units and are used in particular circumstances to satisfy the needs of commercial, legal, or specialised scientific interests. These units include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "988698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988698", "title": "Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis", "text": "Mycobacterium avium subspecies paratuberculosis\n\nMycobacterium avium\" subspecies \"paratuberculosis (MAP) is an obligate pathogenic bacterium in the genus \"Mycobacterium\". It is often abbreviated M. paratuberculosis or M. avium\" ssp. \"paratuberculosis. It is the causative agent of Johne's disease, which affects ruminants such as cattle, and suspected causative agent in human Crohn's disease and rheumatoid arthritis. The type strain is ATCC 19698 (equivalent to CIP 103963 or DSM 44133).\n\nMAP causes Johne's disease in cattle and other ruminants. It has long been suspected as a causative agent in Crohn's disease in humans, but studies have been unable to show definite correlation.\n\nRecent studies have shown that MAP present in milk can survive pasteurization, which has raised human health concerns due to the widespread nature of MAP in modern dairy herds. MAP survival during pasteurization is dependent on the D-value of the strains present and their concentration in milk. It is heat resistant and is capable of sequestering itself inside white blood cells, which may contribute to its persistence in milk. It has also been reported to survive chlorination in municipal water supplies.\n\nMAP is a slow growing organism and is difficult to culture. Bacterial cultures were regarded as Gold standards for detection of MAP. Detection is very limited in fresh tissues, food, and water. Recently, John Aitken and Otakaro Pathways have discovered a method to culture MAP from human blood. Testing is ongoing. Professor John Hermon-Taylor of Kings College London is developing a new vector type anti MAP vaccine which he claims is both curative and preventative. Stage 1 human trials began in January 2017. He is also developing a companion MAP blood test.\n\nIt is not susceptible to antituberculosis drugs (which can generally kill \"Mycobacterium tuberculosis\"). MAP is susceptible to antibiotics used to treat Mycobacterium avium disease, such as rifabutin and clarithromycin, however the capacity of these antibiotics to eradicate MAP infection in vivo has not been established.\n\nMAP is recognized as a multi-host mycobacterial pathogen with a proven specific ability to initiate and maintain systemic infection and chronic inflammation of the intestine of a range of histopathological types in many animal species, including primates.\n\nMAP has been found in larger numbers within the intestines of Crohn's disease patients and in significant amount of irritable bowel syndrome patients compared to those suffering from ulcerative colitis or otherwise healthy controls. One study concluded that MAP \"may act as a causative agent, have a role in the context of secondary infection, which may exacerbate the disease, or represent non-pathogenic colonisation.\"\n\nThe genome of MAP strain K-10 was sequenced in 2005 and found to consist of a single circular chromosome of 4,829,781 base pairs, and to encode 4,350 predicted ORFs, 45 tRNAs, and one rRNA operon.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12676959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12676959", "title": "Pars destruens/pars construens", "text": "Pars destruens/pars construens\n\nPars destruens/pars construens (\"lat\".) is in common parlance about different parts of an argumentation. The negative part of criticizing views is the pars destruens. And the positive part of stating one's own position and arguments is the pars construens.\n\nThe distinction goes back to Francis Bacon and his work Novum Organum, 1620. There he puts forth his inductive method that has two parts. A negative part, \"pars destruens\", that removes all prejudices and errors. And the positive part, \"pars construens\", that is about gaining knowledge and truth.\n\n"}
{"id": "52325585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52325585", "title": "Persecution of Degar Peoples in Vietnam", "text": "Persecution of Degar Peoples in Vietnam\n\nThe native inhabitants of the Central Highlands are the Degar (Montagnard) peoples. The Vietnamese conquered the Central Highlands during their \"march to the south\" (Nam tiến). Ethnic Vietnamese (Kinh) people now outnumber the indigenous Degars (considered derogatory term) after state-sponsored colonization directed by both the government of South Vietnam and the current Communist government of unified Vietnam. The Montagnards have engaged in conflicts with the Vietnamese, from the anti-Communist South Vietnamese government, the Viet Cong, to the Communist government of unified Vietnam. There are contrasting views on this issue, as the constitution of the government of Vietnam states \"Article 36 of the Constitution, the state invests heavily in education and supports various preferential programmes for ethnic minorities, like ethnic minority boarding schools, lower entry requirements and quota for minorities.\" Both the initial 1945 constitute and the revised 1992 constitution of North Vietnam and the successor state the Socialist Republic of Vietnam stated that all minority groups in Vietnam have the right to maintain their mother tongues in their schooling as well as to use their languages to preserve their ethnic cultures and values.\n\nThe Champa state and Chams in the lowlands til 1471 were traditional suzerains whom the Montagnards in the highlands acknowledged as their lords, while autonomy was held by the Montagnards. After World War II concept of \"Nam tiến\" and the southward conquest was celebrated by Vietnamese scholars. The Pays Montagnard du Sud-Indochinois was the name of the Central Highlands from 1946 under French Indochina.\n\nUp until French rule, the Central Highlands was alleged by one American source as almost never entered by the Vietnamese since they viewed it as a savage (Moi-Montaganrd) populated area with fierce animals like tigers, \"poisoned water\" and \"evil malevolent spirits\", but the Vietnamese expressed interest in the land after the French transformed it into a profitable plantation area to grow crops on, in addition to the natural resources from the forests, minerals and rich earth and realization of its crucial geographical importance. However, the French tactic of divide-and-conquer to fragment national independent movements was also used, using specially-recruited Montagnard divisions and troops and dividing the region.\n\nIn 1955, Northern Vietnamese migrants were settled in the Central Highlands after the autonomous Montagnard area was abolished by Ngô Đình Diệm. Y Bham Enuol founded Bajaraka on January 5, 1958 to resist the discrimination, Vietnamese settlement on Highlands and forced assimilation by the South Vietnamese government. The United Nations Secretary-General and foreign embassies were contacted by Y Bham Enuol. \"Front for the Liberation of the Highlands of Champa\" (Mặt Trận Giải Phóng Cao Nguyên Champa) and Bajaraka were both headed by Y Bham Enuol. He was killed by the Khmer Rouge on April 20, 1975. The support of Central Highlands tribe was seen as essential to Hanoi's war strategy, and various tribes had supported the National Liberation Front, with a Christian Rade people Y Bih Aleo serving as the vice-President of the NLF. Several Montagnard agents had assisted PAVN attacks against U.S Special Forces camps and personnel within the region, and their antagonism with the Army of the Republic of Vietnam caused them to not warn them of attacks during the 1975 campaigns.\n\nLes Kosem, Y Bham Enuol and Prince Norodom Sihanouk worked together to found FULRO and launch an uprising against the South Vietnamese government to regain their land from the Vietnamese colonizers. Since 1964 the Montagnards of FULRO struggled for their own country and continued to fight against the Vietnamese Communist regime which persecuted them for their religious beliefs. After mass jailings and killings during the 2001 and 2004 protests by ethnic hill tribe minorities against the Vietnamese regime, foreigners were banned from the Central Highlands for a period of time by Vietnam.\n\nThe Montagnard inhabited Central Highlands became open to the Vietnamese only under French rule. The word savage (moi) was used by the Vietnamese against the Montagnard Degars. Both the South Vietnamese and the united Communist Vietnam government were fought against by the FULRO Degar fighters for the sake of the Central Highlands and Montagnard people under the direction of Y-Bham Enuol. The Montagnards in FULRO fought the Vietnamese for twenty years after the end of the Vietnam War and the scale of Vietnamese attacks on the Montagnards are alleged by one US author as having killed over 200,000 Montagnards after 1975 during the war between FULRO and Vietnam in the Central Highlands, as the Vietnamese lease land for Japanese companies to harvest lumber in the area. Munitions, weapons, and 5,000 rifles were given by the Chinese to some Montagnard groups after some Montagnards requested help from China via Thai General Savit-Yun K-Yut since the United States refused to help the FULRO Montagnards against the Vietnamese. These figures have not been validated by independent sources or third parties, however. Degar courts were abolished by South Vietnam and the Central Highlands became flooded with Vietnamese colonizers under the direction of South Vietnam. Torture and mass arrests by the Vietnamese military were used in the Central Highlands against the Degar during the February 2001 protests against Vietnamese oppression.\n\nThe Chinese, the Central Highlands Montagnards, Cham, and Delta Cambodians (Khmer Krom) were all alienated by the South Vietnamese government under Diem. The Montagnard Highlands were subjected to colonization by ethnic Vietnamese under Diem. A complete rejection of Vietnamese rule was felt by non-NLF tribes of the Montagnards in 1963.\n\nThe Vietnamese were originally centered around the Red River Delta but engaged in conquest and seized new lands such as Champa, the Mekong Delta (from Cambodia) and the Central Highlands during Nam Tien, while the Vietnamese received strong Chinese influence in their culture and civilization and were Sinicized, and the Cambodians and Laotians were Indianized, the Montagnards in the Central Highlands maintained their own native culture without adopting external culture and were the true indigenous natives of the region, and to hinder encroachment on the Central Highlands by Vietnamese nationalists, the term \"Pays Montagnard du Sud-Indochinois\" PMSI emerged for the Central Highlands along with the natives being addressed by the name Montagnard. The Vietnamese Kinh colonists flooding into the Central Highlands has significantly altered the demographics of the region. Violent demonstrations with fatalities have broken out due to Montagnard anger at Vietnamese discrimination and seizure of their land since many Vietnamese Kinh were settled by the government in the Central Highlands.\n\nAn insurgency was waged by Montagnards in FULRO against South Vietnam and then unified Communist Vietnam. A colonization program of Kinh Vietnamese by the South Vietnamese government and united Vietnamese Communist government was implemented and now a Kinh majority predominates in the highland areas. The Montagnard lands in the Central Highlands were subjected to state sponsored colonization by ethnic Vietnamese settlers under the South Vietnamese regime of Ngo Dinh Diem which resulted in estranging the Montagnards and leading them to reject Vietnamese rule. FULRO however did not represent the sole force or organisation among the Montagnards, Khmer Krom and other groups, as the Cambodian Campaign that created refugees in the region had caused many to join the Viet Cong and become members. The appeal of \"defending the fatherland\" against foreign attack appealed to many. \nThe South Vietnamese and Communist Vietnamese colonization of the Central Highlands has been compared to the historic Nam tiến of previous Vietnamese rulers. During the Nam tiến (March to the South) Khmer and Cham territory was seized and militarily colonized (đồn điền) by the Vietnamese which was repeated by the state-sponsored colonization of Northern Vietnamese Catholic refugees on Montagnard land by the South Vietnamese leader Diem and the introduction to the Central Highlands of \"New Economic Zones\" by the now Communist Vietnamese government. The thousand year violent war the Vietnamese in the lowlands had with the Montagnards in the mountains was a long-established custom and the Vietnamese used the derogatory word \"Moi\" (savages) to address the Montagnards, the South Vietnamese government was strongly against the autonomous Montagnard CIDG (Civilian Irregular Defense Groups) who were fighting against the Vietcong because they feared that the Montagnards would gain independence so the South Vietnamese and Montagnards violently clashed against each other. The Vietnamese Communists are alleged to have implemented harsh punishment against the Montagnards after the defeat of South Vietnam. Whether these issues are true or not is openly disputable, given that the Vietnamese constitution officially recognises all the present central highlands minority groups. Furthermore, this group exhibited strongly-divided loyalties, many had joined with the NLF in opposition to Saigon policies.\nSome Vietnamese viewed and dealt with the indigenous Montagnards in the CIDG from the Central Highlands as \"savages\" and this caused a Montagnard uprising against the Vietnamese. Some Montagnard Rhades mounted a revolt, seizing hundreds of Vietnamese civilians and soldiers, assassinating officers of the Vietnamese special forces and seizing American advisers on 19–20 September but the 23rd Division of the South Vietnamese army stopped them from sizing Ban Me Thout, the provincial capital of Darlac Province. In the Central Highlands the Montagnard FULRO organization fought against both the Communists and South Vietnamese due to discrimination by the South Vietnamese army against the Montagnards. After the victory of the Communist North Vietnamese, the Vietnamese refused autonomy to the Montagnards, and on Montagnard land they settled around one million ethnic Vietnamese in addition to using \"reducation camps\" on the Montagnards, leading the Montagnard FULRO to continue the armed struggle against the Vietnamese.\n\nEthnic minorities in general have also been referred to as \"moi\", including other \"hill tribes\" like the Muong. The anti-ethnic minority discriminatory policies by the Vietnamese, environmental degradation, deprivation of lands from the natives, and settlement of native lands by a massive amount of Vietnamese settlers led to massive protests and demonstrations by the Central Highland's indigenous native ethnic minorities against the Vietnamese in January–February 2001 and this event gave a tremendous blow to the claim often published by the Vietnamese government that in Vietnam \"There has been no ethnic confrontation, no religious war, no ethnic conflict. And no elimination of one culture by another.\" The same state-sponsored settlement of ethnic minority land by Vietnamese Kinh has happened in another highland region, the Annamite Cordillera (Trường Sơn), both the Central Highlands and Annamite Cordillera were populated by ethnic minorities who were not Vietnamese during the 20th century's start, but the demographics of the highlands was drastically transformed with the mass colonization of 6 million settlers from 1976 to the 1990s, which led to ethnic Vietnamese Kinh outnumbering the native ethnic groups in the highlands.\n\nA colonization program of Kinh Vietnamese by the South Vietnamese government and united Vietnamese Communist government was implemented. Leaving out any plans for autonomy for ethnic minorities, an assimilation plan was launched by the South Vietnamese government with the creation of the \"Social and Economic Council for the Southern Highlander Country\", the South Vietnamese based their approach to the highlanders by claiming that they would be \"developed\" since they were \"poor\" and \"ignorant\", making swidden agriculturalists sedentarize and settling ethnic Vietnamese colonists from the coastal regions into the highlands such as Northern Vietnamese Catholic refugees who fled to South Vietnam, 50,000 Vietnamese settlers were in the highlands in 1960 and in 1963 the total number of settlers was 200,000 and up to 1974 the South Vietnamese were still implemented the colonization plan even though the highland natives experienced massive turbulence and disorder because of the colonization, and by 1971 less than half of a scheme back by the Americans to leave Montagnards with just 20% of the Central Highlands was completed, and even in the parts of the highlands which did not experience colonization, the South Vietnamese threw the native tribes into \"strategic hamelets\" to keep them away from places where communists potentially operated and the South Vietnamese consistently spurned any attempts too make overtures to the native Highlanders.\n\nConcessions for ethnic minority rights were issued after the South Vietnamese government was forced by the FULRO insurgency to address the problem under \"Front for the Liberation of the Highlands of Champa\" (Mặt Trận Giải Phóng Cao Nguyên Champa) and FULRO led by Les Kosem and with the help of the intelligence agency and military of Cambodia under Prince Norodom Sinhaouk. The effort to free the Cham people was led by Major General Les Kosem. The Cham people keep the soul of FULRO alive according to former FULRO Cham member Po Dharma who went on a journey to see Les Kosem's grave.\n\nA 2002 article in the Washington Times reported that Montagnard women were subjected to forced mass sterilization by the Vietnamese government for the Montagnard's population to be reduced, in addition to stealing lands of the Montagnards, and attacking their religious beliefs, killing and torturing them in a form of \"creeping genocide\",\n\nLuke Simpkins, an MP in the House of Representatives of Australia condemned the Vietnamese persecution of the Central Highland Montagnards and noting both the South Vietnamese government and regime of unified Communist Vietnam attacked the Montagnards and colonized their lands, mentioning FULRO which fought against the Vietnamese and the desire for the Montagnards to preserve their culture and language. The Vietnamese government has non-Montagnards settle on Montagnard land and killed Montagnards after jailing them.\n\nFormer Green Beret and writer Don Bendell wrote a novel based on Vietnam's policies in the Central Highlands with details in his book such as accusing the Communist Vietnamese government implemented a genocidal and discriminatory policy against the native Montagnards in the Central Highlands, banning Montagnard languages and implementing Vietnamese language, having Vietnamese men marry Montagnard girls and women by force, colonizing the Central Highlands with massive amounts of Vietnamese settlers from the lowlands, inflicting terror and on the Montagnards with the Cong An, and making them perform slave labor, erecting plantations for rubber, tea, and coffee on the Central Highlands after destroying the vegetation in the area and due to these \"apartheid-like conditions\". The veracity of these accounts are uncertain, as they have not been independently sourced or verified.\n\nAfter the Vietnamese government arrested Montagnards a demonstration was started in Chu Prong county by the Montagnards in the Central Highlands consisting of around 500 people in February 2001. Vietnam accused them of plotting for autonomy and accused them of trying to stir up ethnic animosity, and launched an anti-Highlander military operation. The traditional lands of the Central Highland had been taken by the Vietnamese and the Central Highland demonstrators had asked for it back. The Vietnamese government refused to return the lands and instead attacked the demonstrators, arresting hundreds and assaulting and pummeling the demonstrators. The Vietnamese military took charge of the Central Highlands, severing telephone lines and keeping heavy watch over travel within the area. The Bahnar, Rhade, and Raglai participated in the mass demonstrations against the Vietnamese. They carried no weapons while they started their mass protests. The natives regard the puppet leaders placed in their communities by the Vietnamese Communist government as collaborators who help persecute the natives for the Vietnamese. The tribal customs of the highlanders are ignored by the Vietnamese government which shows no regard for the traditional leaders of the Highlanders. The natives of the Central Highlands are mired in poverty and the Vietnamese are richer than them and are subjected to starvation. The Vietnamese government seized the land of the natives in the Central Highlands for Vietnamese settlers and coffee companies. They severely limited the amount of land farmed by the Highlanders and drove them away. Vietnamese colonizers also directly seize land from the natives in addition to the coffee companies. The policies of the Vietnamese government impede the natives while helping the Vietnamese colonizers. The lumber and coffee companies are assisted by the Vietnamese government. Vietnamese government workers embezzle and steal aid meant for the Central Highlanders. After these provocations, when Buon xer village was seized by Vietnamese colonizers, they were attacked by the Rhade when the straw finally broke the camel's back on August 8, 2000. The massive amount of Vietnamese colonizers and land theft was the impetus for the mass 2001 demonstrations against the Vietnamese. Rahlan Djan and Rahlan Pon were the two Montagnards who were abused and arrested by the Vietnamese and ex-FULRO member Ksor Kok helped bring attention to their plight.\n\nThe jailed Montagnards had been subjected to torture by the Vietnamese government which caused the mass protests. There were 30 police officers wounded in Buon Ma Thuot in Daklak and Pleiku. Coffee farming and colonization of ethnic Vietnamese in the Central highlands are supported by the Vietnamese government. The natives were attacked by Vietnamese helicopters and soldiers in Daklak and Gia Lia provinces.\n\nThe Ratanakiri and Moldokiri based Montagnards numbered 402 people in December 1992. Another wave of Montagnard refugees in Cambodia happened after the Vietnamese government crackdown on the protests in the Central Highlands in February 2001.\n\nTorture was performed by the Vietnamese upon Montagnards who were detained after the protests. The demonstrators were crushed by Vietnamese troops and police after they asked for the land back in non-violent protests in the Central Highlands in 2001. In their own native lands, the Vietnamese have been removing Montagnards since they don't have official documentation and the Highlands have been flooded with Vietnamese colonists supported by the Vietnamese government. Plantations run by the government were built on the land of the Montagnards which were also settled by lowlanders. Montagnards were made to give up their lands for far less than they were worth to the Vietnamese government\n\nPrison sentences were handed down to 15 people in May 2004. Gia Lai and Dak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot was the scene of the April 2004 mass demonstrations against the Vietnamese. Access to the Central Highlands was cut off by the police. The Vietnamese government oppresses them because they want their native land rights. The 2001 mass protests led to an exodus to Cambodia of Montagnards escaping from the Vietnamese authorities. After attempting to escape Vietnam or demonstrating against the government, jail terms were imposed upon over 70 Montagnards.\n\nElectric batons and tear gas were deployed by the Vietnamese against a communal prayer by the Montagnards. Like the 2001 mass demonstrations, Buon Ma Thuot was once again the scene of a huge gathering of Montagnards demanding that their traditional Daklak lands be given back and religious freedom allowed. Plantations were set up on stolen land where the Montagnards were driven out of by the Vietnamese government since the Vietnamese use it for growing coffee.\n\nGia Lia and Daklak were the scene of the mass 2004 demonstrations. The Montagnard demonstrators demanded that they be given their lands and be justly treated. The demonstrations involved thousands and police and demonstrators were among the injured.\n\nThe flood of Kinh Vietnamese colonists on stolen Montagnard lands led to 20,000 Montagnards participating in the 2001 protests. Buon Ma Thuoat was flooded by Vietnamese armed forces after crushing the rally in which Montagnards took part in by the hundreds. Foreigners were banned by the Vietnamese police from entering Buon Ma Thuot. Religious and ethnic groups are oppressed by the Vietnamese government according to the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nAmerica received 1,000 asylees from Montagnards in Cambodia where they had fled to after the mass demonstrations in 2001. The theft of indigenous land was the cause of the protests in Daklak province's capital Buon Ma Thuot on Saturday by over 1,000 Montagnards in 2004. The Vietnamese arrested Montagnards during the demonstrations and people were hurt during fights which broke out. The Montagnard Foundation was accused by the Vietnamese government.\n\nObservers were shocked by the Gia Lai and Daklak 2004 demonstrations since the heavy Vietnamese military presence in the area was implemented after suppressing and clamping down on the 2001 demonstrations. Destitution is rife in the Central Highlands. There were estimates of thousands of people participating in the demonstrations. The coffee growing highlands were closed to every single non-Vietnamese after the protests. The airports in Pleiku and Buon Ma Thuot were forbidden from allowing non-Vietnamese in. Special permission is needed for non-Vietnamese reporters and consular officers.\n\nThe Vietnamese government stole the land of the Montagnards when the Communists came to power. During the protests Montagnards were shot according to Save the Montagnards leader George Clark. 2,000 Montagnards were alleged to have been killed with rivers being used as dumping grounds for bodies by the Vietnamese according to the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nThe peaceful protests were crushed by the Vietnamese government and the toll inflicted was substantial.\n\nJail terms were handed out to hundreds of Montagnards while others were murdered by the Vietnamese government forces during the crushing of the Daklak disturbances in 2001. In order to search for Montagnards the Vietnamese government closed streets, shut down flights and banned non-Vietnamese from the area. Cambodia was the destination of many Montagnards who fled the crackdown in which the amount of people detained and hurt reached into the hundreds after the Vietnamese Communists crushed the protesters, who sought to address the theft of their land by the Vietnamese government.\n\nItaly called for Montagnard asylum seekers to be allowed into Cambodia and called the Montagnard persecution at the hands of the Vietnamese to end.\n\nThe 2001 incident was over land. In 2004 there were multiple disappeared and murdered demonstrators as demonstration was subjected to water cannon, gas and electric sticks. Reporters and non-Vietnamese were banned from the Central Highlands by the Vietnamese. Indigenous land seizure was one of the complaints of the rally in Daklak outside of the Vietnamese government buildings by the Montagnards.\n\nThe Easter weekend was when the protests over the theft of indigenous land happened and water cannons, gas and electric sticks were deployed against them. During the incident murdered and injured Montagnards were seen. Foreign officials and observers were forbidden to enter. Vietnam has long crushed indigenous land rights for ethnic minorities. Italy and the USA attempted to investigate the crackdown.\n\nThe number of wounded and imprisoned reached into the dozens according to some. The Vietnamese murdered Montagnards by the hundreds according to Montagnard advocates in the USA. An observation trip by US diplomatic officers was barred by the Vietnamese. Italy and the USA both called upon the truth behind what happened to be investigated. The death toll of hundreds came from Kok Ksor who leads the Montagnard Foundation. Released Vietnamese prison inmates and Vietnamese civilians helped the Vietnamese police assaulted the Montagnards. Trucks, rivers, wells, and coffee plantations human remains lying around. The Vietnamese detained Montagnard children and the Central Highlands was off limits to independent observers. The path to Cambodia was obstructed by the Vietnamese.\n\nOne number given of protest participants was 400,000 while an approximate number of deaths was given at 400. Vietnamese civilians joined Vietnamese security forces in assaulting the Buonmathuot Degar Montagnard protesters.\n\nDak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot was the scene of the convergence of Montagnards in the thousands on April 20, Saturday of 2004. Tanks were deployed water cannons, electric sticks and gas were deployed by the police. Gia Lai's districts of Dak Doa, Cu Se, and Ayun Pa on April 11 were the scenes of further protests by Montagnards against the Vietnamese. Human Rights Watch also reported deaths and injuries among the Montagnards in the 2004 uprising. Indigenous land restitution was a demand of the non-violent Montagnard protesters. External contact was limited and three or more people gathering was prohibited, along with Central Highlands internal movement. House arrest was implemented with Vietnamese police entered the houses and villages of the Montagnards. Multiple incidents of Vietnamese jailing and assaulting Montagnards were documented in 2003 and 2004.\n\nIndigenous land seizure was a reason cited for the Saturday demonstrations by the Montagnards in which dozens were arrested by the Vietnamese. Non Vietnamese were banned from the Central Highlands while the demonstrations were crushed by Vietnamese police. A death toll of hundreds was given by the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nAsylum for the Montagnards was advocated to the United Nations and the government of Cambodia by Cambodian King Sihanouk.\n\nIndigenous land theft at the hands of the Vietnamese led to the demonstrations in which the Vietnamese savagely crushed 1,000 Montagnard Degars and resulted in a death toll of possibly hundreds according to a Christian News Service. There has been acute discrimination of the Montagnards by the Vietnamese.\n\nThe coffee plantations and Buonmathuot had corpses strewn around numbering in the hundreds while some were beheaded, their limbs broken after guns, stones, and electric sticks were used in the assault on the Montagnard protesters by private Vietnamese citizens who helped the Vietnamese police and military. The Vietnamese persecute both Northwestern and Central Highland ethnic minorities. The Montangards were driven to Cambodia after they were left in destitution when their indigenous lands were seized by the Vietnamese in an \"ethnic cleansing\" plan implemented by the Communist Vietnamese. The Radical Party of Italy brought attention to the plight of the Montagnards to the European Parliament. United Nations monitors were banned from the Central Highlands.\n\nVietnamese government media claimed that the death toll was two people. Theft of land was a cause of the demonstration by the Montagnards. The Central Highlands was blocked to non-Vietnamese. The demonstrations were mostly ignored by Vietnamese media. There were deaths caused by shootings and violent batterings of Montagnards at the hands of the Vietnamese according to Human Rights Watch.\n\nThe Vietnamese Embassy in the United States and the Foreign Ministry of Vietnam claimed no discrimination was going on and everything was normal.\n\nThe Montagnard demonstrators were accused of being separatists who wanted their own country by the Vietnamese government.\n\nThe Italian Radical Party and Mountagnard Fondation's remarks were attacked as false by the Vietnamese Foreign Ministry. Vietnam claimed that the protests were started by the Montagnard Foundation.\n\nThe Vietnamese crackdown on the Montagnards 2004 Easter demonstrations led to denunciation from the European Union. The Central Highlands were requested to be open up to non-Vietnamese by the EU since the area was off limits to foreign reporters. Indigenous land theft and discrimination against their beliefs by the Vietnamese was the reason for the rally in Dak Lak's capital Buon Ma Thuot by the Montagnards. Vietnamese police thrashed some people until they died.\n\nMontagnard participants were estimated at 30,000 or 10,000. Foreign monitors were banned by the Vietnamese. Access to the Central Highlands was demanded by Human Rights Watch. Private Vietnamese citizens helped the Vietnamese police assault, thrash, and murder Montagnards in the middle of coffee plantations and in the streets, including a blind Montagnard woman. The Human Rights Watch report was cited in the United States House of Representatives.\n\nKhmer Kampuchea Krom Federation (KKF) supported the statement made by King Sihanouk on the situation. Sanctuary for Montagnards running away from the crackdown was requested of the Cambodian government by KKF.\n\nThe first Montagnard protests were started when 3 of them were detained by the Vietnamese in February 2001. Natives only make out 1 million out of the 4 million residents of the Central Highlands since Vietnamese colonists have flooded into the region with Vietnamese government support. Sterilization and involuntary termination of pregnancies were implemented against Montagnards. Having 3 or a greater number of children would result in penalties for Montagnards. The Vietnamese punish any escapees they can retrieve\n\nA whitewashing campaign of the sanguine events by the Vietnamese government was accused by Human Rights Watch. Killings perpetrated by the Vietnamese were witnessed and divulged to Human Rights Watch. The Vietnamese launched ambuscade and surprise traps against protesters.\n\nWhen the protests were crushed villages were missing a massive amount of their inhabitants. Prohibitions slapped on the entry of non-Vietnamese and censorship failed to stop reports of accounts of murder and torment inflicted upon Montagnards at the hands of Vietnamese citizens and police. The Vietnamese government implemented a campaign to censor and whitewash the events.\n\nDemonstrators were hunted down with dogs in coffee plantations by the Vietnamese, according to a Baptist news service. Tourists and airlines were barred as were foreign embassy officers. Montagnards were sterilized involuntarily by the Vietnamese. Indigenous land theft by the Vietnamese was the cause of the protests.\n\nThe savage events led to Cambodia becoming a destination for fleeing Montagnards.\n\n20 Vietnamese troops sexually violated a Degar woman who was 20 years old called HHlon. The skull of a Degar was crushed by Vietnamese students after he was detained by police. He was 33 years old and his name was Siu Plen. A fatal head shot was administered by Vietnamese on a Degar named Hnun. A fatal thrashing was administered after the eyes were gouged out by Vietnamese citizen colonists on a Degar man named Tol. The crimes committed by the Vietnamese were reported despite the Vietnam government shutting access to the area. The Banmathout death toll was estimated at 400 as Degar were murdered by Vietnamese colonists and police.\n\nMontagnard land being stolen was the cause of the protests. 10 Montagnards were murdered by Vietnamese citizens and police according to Human Rights Watch. Transparency was requested of the Vietnamese government by the European Union.\n\nOn April 24, it was reported that the Central Highlands were reopened to non-Vietnamese.\n\nDue to the bloody crackdown in the Central Highlands, in Washington D.C. the Vietnam embassy was the scene of protests. Hmong and Laos opposition supported the Montagnards due to Vietnam's alliance with the government of Laos.\n\nOnce the protests were crushed by the Vietnamese, a Vietnamese government controlled and monitored tour of the Central Highlands of non-Vietnamese reporters was given after caving into the strong reaction by other countries to the events.\n\nIn the European Parliament a condemnation of the Vietnamese persecution of Montagnards was proposed by the Italian Radical Party.\n\nThe Montagnard Foundation was accused by Vietnam.\n\nRubber weapons only were used according to Vietnamese claims in response to accusations of using guns and killing demonstrators by thrashing them. The people wanted their land back.\n\nThe Montagnard Foundation was blamed by Vietnam.\n\nDeportations were made by Cambodia of Montagnards who had escaped the Vietnamese.\n\nVietnam claimed it allowed freedom of belief and tolerance for minorities in response to the unrest.\n\nThe inhabitants of the Central Highlands were made to provide quarter and lodging to Vietnamese soldiers. During the demonstrations, additional soldiers were brought n by the Vietnamese. Vietnam claimed as lies the reports by Montagnard Foundation and Human Rights Watch, denied discrimination and claimed that the Central Highlands people were being taken care of by Vietnam. Police killed Montagnards by thrashing them.\n\nLand theft led to the demonstrations which resulted in the deaths of Montagnards at the hands of Vietnamese. Foreign ambassadors and monitors were banned from the area by the Vietnamese. Entry to the Central Highlands was demanded by the Italian and American embassies. Vietnam refused to acknowledge any problem and refused to allow the Montagnards situation to be observed by outsiders while the land rights of the Montagnards are being denied.\n\nThere was documentation of the killings of 10 Montagnards according to Human Rights watch while 8 were documented by Amnesty International. A whitewashing was alleged by HRW while the situation of ethnic minorities was criticized by Amnesty.\n\nVietnamese civilians helped the Vietnamese police assault and massacre Montagnard demonstrators. Traps were set up by the Vietnamese at locations where hey started violently assaulting the protesters. The protests had 30,000 people.\n\nBecause of his desire to promote trade with Vietnam, John Kerry rejected showing any concern for Montagnard rights and voted against the 2001 Vietnam Human Rights Act in the Senate. Kerry said that \"communism\" was what the people wanted in Vietnam. The current 750,000 Montagnard have been halved from their original 1975 number of 1,500,000 while there was a three times growth in the Vietnamese population while killings, torture, and seizure of land from the Montagnards has taken place. Mass graves were created to be filled with the corpses of the Montagnards as kids, women and men were assaulted by Vietnamese security forces. Laotian Communists are effectively a satellite of the Vietnamese with Laos containing Vietnamese soldier garrisons and the Laotians are seen as primitive by the Vietnamese. The Cambodian government is seen as a satellite government under Vietnam's control with a garrison of Vietnamese soldiers stationed there as Vietnamese use their historic military settlement method of Don Dien on Cambodia and Laos. The vision of dominance of Cambodia and Laos by Vietnam was formulated by Ho Chi Minh.\n\nNeutral journalism was forbidden when reporters were finally permitted in after the European Union and Human Rights organizations strong armed access after there was a total lack of reporting on the demonstrations for 3 weeks. 19 were murdered according to organizations while 2 died according to Vietnam.\n\nThe Vietnamese crackdown against the Montagnards in 2001 and 2004 over their land rights resulted in Cambodia experiencing an Exodus of Montagnard asylum seekers.\n\nThreats were made against potential future demonstrators by the Vietnamese government after they crushed the Central Highlands demonstrations with the Montagnard being named as a source of enmity by Nguyen Tan Dung, the Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nForeigners were accused of inciting the demonstrations by Vietnam and the ability of the demonstrations to take placed was blamed on leniency on part of the state by Nguyen Tan Dung, the Deputy Prime Minister.\n\nHouse Resolution 613 was initiated by Republican representative Tom Davis over persecution in Vietnam.\n\nMontagnards are oppressed and abused by the Vietnamese regime with their land being seized and stolen by the Vietnamese, the Cambodian-Vietnamese border blocked by the Vietnamese to stop them from leaving as refugees and the Vietnamese tortured Montagnards with electricity and beatings. As a means of intimidation, the Vietnamese gather hundreds of spectators to watch trials of arrested Montaganrds and force public repudiation of religious belief upon the Montagnards. the Vietnamese accuse Montagnards of being \"reactionary\".\n\nDegar religious rights and autonomy are not allowed by the Vietnamese Communists. A Montagnard family was attacked with machetes by ordinary Vietnamese citizens. Assaults and brutality by Vietnamese citizens is sanctioned and supported by the Vietnamese government. Their traditional lands were seized from them.\n\nVietnamese government supported racism, anti-religious policies, land theft, abuse, and imprisonment against ethnic minorities like the Hmong, Montagnards, and Khmer Krom were condemned by the UN Committee on the Elimination of Racial Discrimination in Geneva during its 80th Session.\n\nIn Gialai province, Cu Se district, Hbong village, Siu Klong, a Degar Montagnard, was hung to death by ordinary Vietnamese citizens on 5 December 2012 and the Vietnamese police and government ignored the crime and did nothing against the perpetrators.\n\nReligious freedom is officially allowed in article 70 of the constitution of Vietnam, but the Vietnamese government ignores this and kill, jails, and abuses Degars because of their religion after 1975 when the Central Highlands was occupied by North Vietnamese. The Vietnamese police crucified a fifty-year-old Degar man named A Tac while assaulting and beating other Degars whose limbs were restrained in the commune of Dak Krong.\n\nVietnamese police assaulted and beat Montagnard Degar children and babies in addition to adults, women, and old people in the province of Kontum, Kon Braih district, Dak T'Re commune in Bon Kon H'Drom village on 21 August 2012.\n\nThe de-listing of Vietnam by the US State Department was criticized by the Montagnards due to Vietnam's continued arrests and abuse of Montagnards due to religion.\n\nThe Degars experienced hardship, tribulation and adversity during the Indochina Wars and have continued to suffer from Vietnamese oppression while the beneficiaries have been the Vietnamese. The Vietnamese has sterilized Degar women, and murdered and jailed Degar men to wipe out the Degars for the purpose of seizing their land and the Vietnamese despise the Degar way of life due to ethnic hatred by the Vietnamese against the Degar which led to ethnic cleansing.\n\nThe Montagnard Degar man Siu Thoan's family was terrorized and bullied by Vietnamese police including his wife. The Vietnamese Pham Anh Tuan violently assaulted Siu Thoan's family.\n\nAfter rejecting a demand by the Vietnamese for his religion to be repudiated, a sentence of five years in jail was handed down to Y-Huong Nie, a Degar Montagnard.\n\nThe Vietnamese police assaulted and brutalized the Montagnard Foundation President Kok Ksor's mother, Ksor H'Ble, especially following the Degar February 2001 demonstrations over land and religion and the April 2004 demonstrations. The Vietnamese police bullied and assaulted her for years. She died on 18 August 2011. Due to lands and religious disputes, the Vietnamese have killed Degars in the thousands.\n\nDue to religious issues In the commune of Croh POnan 3 Montagnards were tortured by the Vietnamese.\n\nDue to their religious faith Degars had dogs unleashed to assault them by the Vietnamese police.\n\nDegars were violently assaulted and brutalized by racist ordinary Vietnamese citizens on 27 September 2007. Degars were targeted for murder by Vietnamese citizens on 5 October 2007. In the Central Highlands there is severe ethnic bigotry towards the native Degars by the Vietnamese. Degars are subject to bigotry and hatred both by ordinary Vietnamese and the government of Vietnam.\n\nEthnic minority lands are subjected to settlement and colonization by ethnic Vietnamese Kinh supported by the Vietnamese government, as the native populations are driven out and their lands stolen in addition to their bad economic situation. Violence and jail sentences are used against ethnic minorities like Khmer Krom and the most racism is perpetrated against the Hmong and Montagnards.\n\nDemanding that the Vietnamese regime stop repressing ethnic minorities and religion, the \"Coalition for Indigenous Peoples in Vietnam\" was formed out of the Thai, Khmer Krom, and Montagnards after they combined forces against the Vietnamese.\n\nThe Vietnamese brutally suppressed, imprisoned and tortured Montagnards after the Montagnards asked for their lands back during protests in Gia Lai province in 2012 so 85 of the Montagnards were forced to escape from the Vietnamese by going to Rattanakiri province in Cambodia. The religion and ethnicity of the Montagnards is distinct from the Vietnamese. Prospect of a new insurgency by Montagnards for independence were shot down by the Hun Sen regime in Cambodia which refused to aid them.\n\nDuring the trouble and chaos in the Central Highlands after the Vietnamese abused and jailed Montagnard leader Y'Soai Eban he managed to run away from Vietnamese custody. The Montagnards were subjected to genocide after the Vietnam War in 1975.\n\nIndependence from the Communist authorities was desired by the Montagnards after the Vietnam War since they were killed, abused, discriminated against and jailed by the Vietnamese authorities so many of them were forced to run away from the Central Highlands as refugees. Cambodia and eventually the United States were their destinations.\n\nDeath, torture, and incarceration were the punishments inflicted on Montagnards gathering in groups of three or more by the Vietnamese with their religion severely persecuted and repressed at the hands of the Vietnamese Communist regime since 1975.\n\nThe United States State Department showed little concern at the plight of the Montagnards at the hands of the Vietnamese. A thirteen-year-old Montagnard girl Y Kang was severely assaulted, beaten and kicked along with 16 Montagnard women and men by Vietnamese police in Gai Lai province, Plei Ku city, district Mang Yang, commune H'ra in Buon Kret Krot village on July 7, 2011.\n\nVietnam has jailed hundreds of Montagnards in addition to murdering, abusing, and discriminating against their religious beliefs.\n\nDeath was a possible consequence of getting caught with a Bible. The Vietnamese regime claims that Montagnard separatism is conducted by religious matters and uses this as a reason to attack their religion. Montagnard land was seized by the Vietnamese government after the Vietnam War.\n\nIn Gia Lai province, Chu Prong district in 2010 Montagnards were assaulted and detained by the Vietnamese. Parts of Vietnam like the Central Highlands are off limit to human rights organizations and reporters.\n\n"}
{"id": "53070180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53070180", "title": "Propaganda through media", "text": "Propaganda through media\n\nThe definition of propaganda is most commonly defined as \"information\", especially of a biased or misleading nature, used to promote or publicize a particular political cause or point of view. It includes the deliberate sharing of realities, views, and philosophies intended to alter behavior and stimulate people to act.\n\nTo explain the close associations between media and propaganda, Richard Alan Nelson observed propaganda as a form of persuasion with intention with the aid of controlled transmission of single-sided information through mass media. Mass media and propaganda are inseparable.\n\nMass media as a system for spreading and disseminating information and messages to public plays a role in amusing, entertaining and informing individuals with rules and values that situate them in social structure. Thus, propaganda is a necessity for creating conflicts between different classes in society. In a media-saturated modern society, mass media is the main channel for the carrying out the propaganda action and fulfill the propaganda practices.\n\nModern propaganda includes using a variety of media in order to spread messages. This could include using press, radio, television, film, computers, fax machines, posters, meetings, door-to-door canvassing, handbills, buttons, billboards, speeches, flags, street names, monuments, coins, stamps, books, plays, comic strips, poetry, music, sporting events, cultural events, company reports, libraries, and awards and prizes.\n\n\"Propaganda\" was a term that was commonly used in 1914, the beginning of the World War, though its origin can be traced back to the ancient Greece. In Athens, the original place of civilization as well as the centre of humankind culture, the citizen class was conscious and well informed of their interests and public affairs. Thus, conflicts and divergence on individual interests and other religious matters demands propaganda. Without the modern mass media such as newspaper, radio and televisions functioning as a medium for information spreading, a series of alternatives can play a role for propagandizing values and beliefs to shape and mould the opinions of men. These can include dramas, games and religious festivals. Additionally, another tool for propaganda in an oral-biased society is articulation.\n\nPropaganda today is endowed with negative connotative meanings in a political context, despite that the word entered language with religious origins. Pope Gregory XV established an institution for spreading the faith and addressing a series of church affairs, which is namely the Congregation for the Propagation of the Faith. Further, a College of Propaganda was set up under Pope Urban VIII to train priests for missions.\n\nThroughout the historical stages, propaganda has always been evident in momentum social movements such as American independence, the French Revolution, and especially during wartimes. Wartime propaganda is often demanded for shaping public opinions to gain more allies on an international level, as well as calling for citizens to make a contribution and sacrifice to the war on a domestic level. Governments during the First World War devoted massive resources and huge amounts of effort to producing material designed to shape opinion and action internationally. As Clark claimed, posters in wartime with some visual codes are powerful tools to make people adapt to the new conditions and norms arising from the wars and to accommodate the needs of the war. During the Second World War, the power of propaganda came to the extreme, under the horrors of Nazi Germany. And since then, the word carries more negative connotations than neutral.\n\nNowadays, the term is used in journalism, advertising, and education mostly in a political context. In non-democratic countries, propaganda continues to flourish as a means for indoctrinating citizens, and this practice is unlikely to cease in the future.\n\nIn its origins, \"propaganda\" is an ancient and honorable word.\n\nSocial media become a powerful tool for propaganda as the Internet is unprecedentedly accessible for each individual, and interactive social networking sites provide a strong platform for debate and sharing opinions. Propaganda, in forms of a video uploaded to YouTube, a post on Facebook or Twitter, or even a piece of comment, has far-reaching effectiveness to disseminate certain values and beliefs.\n\nAnother element that makes social media effective for sharing propaganda is that it can reach many people with little effort and users can filter the content to remove content they do not want while retaining what they would like to see. This ease of use can be used by ordinary people as well as government agencies and politicians, who can take advantage of the platforms to spread \"junk\" news in favor of their cause. \n\nAs it is reported in New York Times, \"A propaganda video is released by North Korea on YouTube mainly depicting a United States aircraft carrier and a warplane being destroyed in computer-generated balls of fire, the latest salvo in an escalating war of words between the two. The video released by a state media outlet is narrated by a woman and including images of North Korea’s military. According to the video, North Korea’s missiles will be \"stabbed into the throat of the carrier,\" and the jet will \"fall from the sky,\" it warns.\"\n\nIn regards of the event of Westminster terrorism attacking, YouTube is also an important tool for ISIS terrorism propaganda. ISIS flooded YouTube with hundreds of violent recruitment videos with terrifying visual or audio effects to promote and awake Westminster terror attack to capitalise on the atrocity. As \"The Sun\" reported, \"many of the videos glorify terrorist Khalid Masood while others feature beheadings and extreme violence carried out by children.\"\n\nIn 2017 the University of Oxford announced the launch of a series of studies researching how social media is globally used to manipulate public opinion. The study, which used interviews and \"tens of millions posts on seven different social media platforms during scores of elections, political crises, and national security incidents\", found that in Russia, approximately 45% of Twitter accounts are bots and in Taiwan, a campaign against President Tsai Ing-wen involved thousands of accounts being heavily coordinated and sharing Chinese propaganda.\n\nTechniques to like, share, and post on social networks were used. The bot accounts were used to \"game algorithms\" to push different content on the platforms. Real content put out by real people can be covered up and bots can make online measures of support, such as the number of likes or retweets something has received, look larger than it should, thus tricking users into thinking that specific piece of content is popular, a process identified as manufacturing consensus.\n\nDuring the 2016 presidential election, 200,000 tweets deemed as \"malicious activity\" from Russia-linked accounts were outed on Twitter. The accounts pushed hundreds of thousands of these tweets claiming that Democrats were practicing witchcraft and posed as Black Lives Matter activists. Investigators were able to trace the account to a Kremlin-linked propaganda outfit. It was founded in 2013 and known as the Internet Research Agency (IRA).\n\n\"Using little-known content uploading services, anonymous text-pasting sites and multiple backup Twitter accounts, a select group of ISIS operatives managed to evade administrators’ controls to spread the Cantlie video, titled Lend Me Your Ears, around the web within a few hours.\"\n\nIn another example of propaganda, Abdulrahman, the operator al-Hamid used the techniques of hashtagging in a Twitter post to gain the heat of the topics to disseminate the information. A great deal of followers of Hamid on Twitter were demanded to find the highest trending topics in the UK and popular account names they could jump on to get the largest possible reach. As @Abu_Laila wrote: \"We need those who can supply us with the most active hashtags in the UK. And also the accounts of the most famous celebrities. I believe that the hashtag of Scotland's separation from Britain should be the first.\"\n\nFacebook has made huge impact on society by allowing thousands of people to communicate with their family and friends, and be able to keep up-to-date with the rest of the world. But the usage of Facebook leads to the activity of propaganda online. For example, the Facebook pages of Syrian President Bashar al-Assad and the National Coalition of Syrian Revolution and Opposition Forces in 2013 and 2014, uses images to promote their agendas relating to politics during the conflicts following 2011 uprisings in Syria. Their government uses visual frames to help support the image that President Assad is a \"fearless leader protecting its people and that life has continued normally through Syria,\" and to help strengthen the images of the violence and sufferings of the civilians caused by the Assad regime.\n\nThere is also research that \"cloaked\" Facebook accounts are behind the creation of spreading political propaganda online to \"imitate the identity of an opponent so they can spark hateful and aggressive reactions\" from the media and the opponent. The process goes after a case study on a Danish Facebook pages that are cloaking their pages to resemble radical Islamist pages to help \"[provoke} racist and anti-Muslim reactions as well as negative sentiments towards refugees and immigrants in Denmark.\" The research founded on the pages analyzes the challenges of propaganda online, such as epistemological, methodological and conceptual challenges. The information also adds to the reader's \"understanding of disinformation and propaganda in an increasingly interactive social media environment and contributes to a critical inquiry into social media and subversive politics.\"\n\nMusic has always played a major role in popular culture.  Political ideology is often spread through media; however, the use of music reaches an extremely wide and varying audience.  The point of propaganda, according to Manzaria and Bruck, is to “Persuade people’s attitude, beliefs, and behaviors”. Music of all genres is constantly being used to portray a political view, shed light, or bring validity to a subject the author, or artist, feels is worth venturing.  Propaganda through modes like advertisement and campaign, while effective, will only reach a small group of the desired recipients. \n\nAccording to Putman, musical propaganda has a great deal to do with the audience. Each musical genre can reach a specific demographic within a few minutes, along with the propaganda intertwined. Purfleau brings a more social view to the concept of politically motivated music, stating that musical propaganda is \"the basis for a certain kind of political art that aspires to contest the contemporary economic and social order\". Purfleau's approach to understanding musical propaganda explains the timeless manor by which music has been used to portray viewpoints. Though music is not always the first media thought of when contemplating propaganda, it is an extremely effective mode and has proved to influence popular culture throughout human history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10324327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10324327", "title": "Pseudohermaphroditism", "text": "Pseudohermaphroditism\n\nPseudohermaphroditism, or pseudo-hermaphroditism, is an old clinical term for an organism that is born with primary sex characteristics of one sex but develops the secondary sex characteristics that are different from what would be expected on the basis of the gonadal tissue (ovary or testis). It can be contrasted with the term true hermaphroditism, which described a condition where testicular and ovarian tissue were present in the same individual. This language has fallen out of favor due to misconceptions and pejorative connotations associated with the terms, and also a shift to nomenclature based on genetics.\n\nThe term \"male pseudohermaphrodite\" was used when a testis is present, and the term \"female pseudohermaphrodite\" was used when an ovary is present.\n\nIn some cases, external sex organs associated with pseudohermaphroditism look intermediate between a typical clitoris and penis. In other cases, the external sex organs have an appearance that would be expected to be seen with the \"opposite\" gonadal tissue. Because of this, pseudohermaphroditism is sometimes not identified until puberty or adulthood.\n\nAssociated conditions include 5-α-reductase deficiency and androgen insensitivity syndrome.\n\nSex determination and differentiation is generalized with chromosomal sex during fertilization. At early stages, phenotypic sex does not match chromosomal sex—until later during intrauterine development, sexual maturation is reached. During intrauterine development, females change to male with the testes moving down from a blind vaginal pouch with a developing scrotum, as well as a penis which initially resembled a clitoris. What seems like a female phenotype is altered by increased testosterone levels secretion.\n\nMutations affecting the androgen receptor (AR) gene may cause either complete or partial androgen insensitivity syndrome. Androgen, a hormone used to describe a group of sex steroid hormones, is responsible for affecting male pseudohermaphroditism. The differentiation of the fetus as male takes place during the sixth or seventh week of gestation. The development is directed by the testicular determining factor: the gene SRY (sex determining region on Y chromosome). Throughout 9th to 13th week, the development of a male genitalia is dependent upon the conversion of testosterone to the more potent androgen by the action of 5α-reductase within the target tissues of the genitalia. A type of internal male pseudohermaphroditism is Persistent Müllerian duct syndrome, which is developed through synthesis of Müllerian-inhibiting factor defects. In such instances, duct derivatives are now in 46XY males—this includes the uterus, fallopian tubes, and upper vagina. These individuals with a hernia sac and bowel loops were found with duct derivatives as well as testes.\n\nA study on a male pseudohermaphrodite kitten showed there was a combination of gastrointestinal and urogenital congenital abnormalities. It was confirmed to have type II atresia ani and rectovaginal fistula that is associated with male pseudohermaphroditism.\n\nSurgery is sometimes performed to alter the appearance of the genitals. However many surgeries performed on intersex people lack clear evidence of necessity, can be considered as mutilating, and are widely considered to be human rights violations when performed without the informed consent of the recipient.\n\nJohn Money is perhaps the best-known early researcher in this area. His doctoral thesis was titled \"Hermaphroditism: An Inquiry into the Nature of a Human Paradox\", and awarded by Harvard University in 1952.\n\nMoney's general views on gender identity as something learned during childhood were later directly contradicted by a biography published in 2001 by one of his former patients, David Reimer. Among the repercussions was damage to John Money's reputation. Not only had his theory of gender plasticity been dealt a severe blow but Reimer's biography described bizarrely unpleasant childhood therapy sessions, and implied that Money had ignored or concealed the developing evidence that Reimer's reassignment to female was not going well. Money's defenders have suggested that some of the allegations about the therapy sessions may have been the result of False memory syndrome. However, Reimer's brother and mother both agreed that the therapy was not \"working\" in the sense that Reimer wasn't in any way developing a female self-image during his treatment with Dr. Money. Dr. Money never publicly stated that his conclusions were incorrect.\n\nMilton Diamond become a well known expert public advocate on intersex in the early 21st century. He is the director of the Pacific Center for Sex and Society.\n\nUse of the term \"pseudohermaphroditism\" can be problematic, and is now considered redundant. The term \"pseudohermaphroditism\" was created by Edwin Klebs in 1876, long before the genetic roles of the X chromosome and Y chromosome and the social components of gender identity were well characterized, which is why the term is usually used to describe the dissonance between gonadal histology and external genital appearance.\n\nThe term \"intersexuality\" was introduced by Richard Goldschmidt in 1923. However, the term \"intersex\" has also been challenged; the Lawson Wilkins Pediatric Endocrine Society and the European Society for Pediatric Endocrinology have adopted a nomenclature system based on disorders of sex development (DSD), which covers \"congenital conditions in which development of chromosomal, gonadal, or anatomical sex is atypical\" and thus replaces many disparate terms, including but not limited to those based on \"hermaphrodite\".\n\nWhile it adopted the term to open \"many more doors\", the now defunct Intersex Society of North America itself remarked that intersex is not a disorder. 'DSD' is itself heavily contested, including by civil society organizations, human rights institution and academics. Academics like Georgiann Davis and Morgan Holmes, and clinical psychologists like Tiger Devore argue that the term DSD was designed to \"reinstitutionalise\" medical authority over intersex bodies, making intersex bodies more treatable and more of a stigma\" (Holmes). or place intersex \"neatly into medical turf and safely away from critics of its medicalisation\" (Davis). In May 2016, Interact Advocates for Intersex Youth published a statement opposing pathologizing language to describe people born with intersex traits, recognizing \"increasing general understanding and acceptance of the term \"intersex\"\".\n\nOne example of the challenges involved in the use of the term is the case of women with complete androgen insensitivity syndrome (CAIS). These women often have primary and secondary sexual characteristics typical of other women; however, they are karyotypically XY and have internal testes, rather than ovaries. They have the same likelihood of a karyotypically XX woman of enjoying sexual pleasure but are unable to biologically reproduce. Their sexuality (homosexual, heterosexual, bisexual etc.) is not necessarily determined by this syndrome. However scientifically precise the description \"male\" \"pseudohermaphrodite\" may be for such women, its social inappropriateness is in controversy.\n\n"}
{"id": "23556881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23556881", "title": "Psychological continuum model", "text": "Psychological continuum model\n\nThe psychological continuum model (PCM) is a framework to organise prior literature from various academic disciplines to explain sport and event consumer behaviour. \nThe framework suggests four stages – awareness, attraction, attachment and allegiance to describe how sport and event involvement progressively develops with corresponding behaviours (e.g., playing, watching, buying). The PCM uses a vertical framework to characterise various psychological connections that individuals form with objects to explain the role of attitude formation and change that directs behaviours across a variety of consumption activities. Explaining the \"how\" and \"why\" of sport and event consumer behaviour, it discusses how personal, psychological and environmental factors influence a wide range of sport consumption activities.\n\nThe figure shows the four stages of the PCM - awareness, attraction, attachment and allegiance. On each stage, there is a horizontal decision making process. Inputs (green arrows) influence the internal processing (blue boxes) that creates outputs (yellow arrows). The outcomes are shown in the four different stages of the PCM (grey boxes). The unique decision making process is based upon the level of involvement of the consumer towards a sport/team/event. The following sequence is shown in each stage:\n\nInputs --> Internal Processing <--> Output\n\nThe PCM framework states that, through the processing of internal and external inputs, individuals progress upward along the four psychological connection stages. The overall evaluation of an object at a specific stage is the product of the processing of personal, psychological and environmental factors.\n\nAwareness stands for the notion when an individual first learns that a certain sport, event or team exists. In this stage the individual has not formed a preference or favourite. The PCM suggests that awareness of sport, teams and events stems from formal and informal channels, for examples parents, friends, school and media. In most cases awareness begins during childhood, but can also derive from other socializing agents. The value placed on the specific sport and event from a societal perspective is important in the awareness stage. The examples of \"I know about football\" and \"I know about Liverpool FC\" illustrate the awareness stage box.\n\nIn the attraction stage, the individual has a favourite sport, event, team or leisure hobby. Attraction is based upon a number of extrinsic and intrinsic motives. In other words, the sport, event, or leisure hobby provides the opportunity to satisfy needs and receive benefits. The motives stem from a combination of personal, psychological and environmental factors. The Attraction processing creates outcomes of positive affect and intentions, as well as engaging in consumption behaviour related to the sport and event. The examples of \"I like football\" and \"I like Liverpool FC\" illustrate the attraction stage box.\n\nIn the attachment stage the benefits and the sport object are internalised taking on a collective emotional, functional, and symbolic meaning. The psychological connection towards a sport, event, team or leisure hobby strengthens. Internal processes become more important and the influence of socializing agents decreases. Examples for the attachment stage are \"I am a football player\" or \"I am a Liverpool Fan\".\n\nAs the attachment processing continues, the internal collective meaning becomes more durable in terms of persistence and resistance and has greater impact on activities and behaviour. This is noted by the examples of \"I live for football\" and \"I live for Liverpool FC\" within the allegiance stage.\n"}
{"id": "17504079", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17504079", "title": "Reply", "text": "Reply\n\nA reply is a statement or acknowledgment made in response to an interrogative question, request or comment. Replies are communicated in a variety of ways, the most common being spoken or written, and act as a way of conveying relevant information and continuing a conversational exchange.\n\nA simple reply can take the form of a single word, such as \"yes\" or \"no\", or can be expressed via body language, such as nodding the head, winking, shaking the head, et cetera.\n\n"}
{"id": "874192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=874192", "title": "Rāhula", "text": "Rāhula\n\nRāhula (Pāli and Sanskrit) was the only son of Siddhārtha Gautama (commonly known as the Buddha) ( ), and his wife and princess Yaśodharā. He is mentioned in numerous Buddhist texts, from the early period onward. Accounts about Rāhula indicate a mutual impact between Prince Siddhārtha's life and those of his family members. According to the Pāli tradition, Rāhula is born on the day of Prince Siddhārta's renunciation, and is therefore named \"Rāhula\", meaning a fetter on the path to enlightenment. According to the Mūlasarvāstivāda tradition, and numerous other later sources, however, Rāhula is only \"conceived\" on the day of Prince Siddhārtha, and is born six years later, when Prince Siddhārtha becomes enlightened as the Buddha. This long gestation period is explained by bad karma from previous lives of both Yaśodharā and of Rāhula himself, although more naturalistic reasons are also given. As a result of the late birth, Yaśodharā needs to prove that Rāhula is really Prince Siddhārtha's son, which she eventually does successfully by an act of truth. Historian has argued that Prince Siddhārtha conceived Rāhula and waited for his birth, to be able to leave the palace with the king and queen's permission, but Orientalist considered it more likely that Rāhula was born after Prince Siddhārtha left his palace.\n\nBetween seven and fifteen years after Rāhula is born, the Buddha returns to his hometown, where Yaśodharā has Rāhula ask the Buddha for the throne of the Śākya clan. The Buddha responds by having Rāhula ordain as the first Buddhist novice monk. He teaches the young novice about truth, self-reflection, and not-self, eventually leading to Rāhula's enlightenment. Although early accounts state that Rāhula dies before the Buddha does, later tradition has it that Rāhula is one of the disciples that outlives the Buddha, guarding the Buddha's dispensation until the rising of the next Buddha. Rāhula is known in Buddhist texts for his eagerness for learning, and was honored by novice monks and nuns throughout Buddhist history. His accounts have led to a perspective in Buddhism of seeing children as hindrances to the spiritual life on the one hand, and as people with potential for enlightenment on the other hand.\n\nSome early texts such as those of the Pāli tradition do not mention Rāhula at all; but he is mentioned in later Pāli texts such as the Apadāna and the commentaries, as well as in the texts on monastic discipline of the Mūlasarvāstivāda and Mahāsaṇghika traditions. Earliest texts do not describe Rāhula in much detail, and he remains an ideal figure without much depth in character. Because of the lack of detail, especially after Rāhula's ordination, some scholars have argued Rāhula did not have an important role in Buddhism. Apart from the early texts, there are many post-canonical Buddhist texts that contain accounts about Rāhula. The accounts about Rāhula reveal that when Prince Siddhārtha leaves his palace to become a monk, his decision and subsequent spiritual quest is not just a personal matter, but also affects his family every step during the way, as they respond to and affect the prince on his path to enlightenment. Thus, the prince's life before enlightenment is about two parallel spiritual lives, that of the Buddha and that of his family.\n\nRāhula is born on same day Prince Siddhārtha Gautama renounces the throne by leaving the palace, when the prince is 29 years old, on the full moon day of the eight lunar month of the ancient Indian calendar. That day, Prince Siddhārtha is preparing himself to leave the palace. The Pāli account claims that when he receives the news of his son's birth he replies \"\", meaning 'A \"rāhu\" is born, a fetter has arisen', that is, an impediment to the search for enlightenment. Accordingly, Śuddhodana, Prince Siddhārtha's father and king of the Śākya clan, names the child \"Rāhula\", because he does not want his son to pursue a spiritual life as a mendicant. In some versions, Prince Siddhārtha is the one naming his son this way, for being a hindrance on his spiritual path. Just before the prince leaves the palace for the spiritual life, he takes one look at his wife Yaśodharā and his just-born child. Fearing his resolve might waver, Prince Siddhārtha resists to hold his son and leaves the palace as he has planned. Rāhula therefore becomes Prince Siddhārtha's first, but also last and only son.\n\nOther texts derive \"rāhu\" differently. For example, the Pāli \"Apadāna\", as well as another account found in the texts of monastic discipline of the Mūlasarvāstivāda tradition, derive \"rāhu\" from the eclipse of the moon, which traditionally was seen to be caused by the asura (demon) Rāhu. The \"Apadāna\" states that just like the moon is obstructed from view by Rāhu, Prince Siddhārtha is obstructed by Rāhula's birth. The Mūlasarvāstivāda tradition relates, however, that Rāhula is conceived on the evening of the renunciation of Prince Siddhārtha, and born six years later, on the day that his father achieves enlightenment, which was during a lunar eclipse. Further credence is given to the astrological theory of Rāhula's name by the observation that sons of previous Buddhas are given similar names, related to constellations.\n\nMūlasarvāstivāda and later Chinese texts such as the \"Abhiniṣkramaṇa Sūtra\" give two types of explanation for the long gestation period. The first type involves the karma of Princess Yaśodharā and Rāhula himself. According to this interpretation, Yaśodharā has to bear the suffering of carrying a child in her womb for six years, because in a previous life as a cow herder she had refused to help her mother to carry a pail of milk and left it for her mother to carry the extra pail for six leagues. As for Rāhula, his karma was that in a previous life as a king he unintentionally had a sage wait for six days. In this life, he was a king and his brother, a previous life of the Buddha, was a hermit who had taken a vow he would only live from what was given by people. One day, the brother broke his vow to take some water, and feeling guilty, asked the king to punish him. The king refused to issue a punishment for such a trivial matter, but had his brother wait for his final decision and constrained in the royal gardens. After six days, the king suddenly realized he had forgotten about the hermit and immediately set him free, including apologies and gifts. As a result, Rāhula had to wait for six years before being born. In some versions, the king did not allow a sage to enter his kingdom and accumulated the same bad karma of a long gestation period. The later Mahāyāna commentary \"Mahāprajñāpāramitāupadeśa\" () does not blame Yaśodharā's karma for the six years gestation period, but does mention Rāhula's same karma as a king. However, in the 13th-century Japanese devotional text \"Raun Kōshiki\", Rāhula's late birth is seen as evidence of a miracle, rather than a result of karma.\n\nThe second type of explanation consists of the more naturalistic argument that Yaśodharā is practicing religious austerities involving fasting and sleeping on a straw bed, which causes Rāhula's growth to slow down. She is involved in these practices during the time when Siddhārtha is practicing self-mortification. Later, King Śuddhodana prevents Yaśodharā from hearing any news of her former husband, and she gradually becomes healthier, as the pregnancy continues normally. However, some time later, the false rumor spreads that the former prince has died of his ascetism. Yaśodharā becomes very desperate and depressed, endangering her own pregnancy. When the news reaches the palace that Siddhārtha has attained enlightenment, Yaśodharā is overjoyed and gives birth to Rāhula. Buddhist Studies scholar John S. Strong notes that this account draws a parallel between the quest for enlightenment and Yaśodharā's path to being a mother, and eventually, they both are accomplished at the same time.\n\nThe late childbirth leads to doubts in the Śākya clan as to who is the father, as told in the Mūlasarvāstivāda tradition, in the \"Mahāprajñāpāramitāupadeśa\" and in the later Chinese \"Zabaozang jing\" (). Since Rāhula's birth was not regarded by Buddhists to be a virginal or miraculous birth, tradition had to explain that Prince Siddhārtha was actually the father. Yaśodharā responds by putting her child on a stone in a pond of water and making an act of truth that if Rāhula is really her child, that he and the stone may not sink, but rather float back-and-forth. After she makes the declaration, the child floats according to her vow. Strong notes that this is a symbolic parallel with the attainment of enlightenment by the Buddha, described as the \"further shore\", and coming back to teach humankind. The \"Mahāprajñāpāramitāupadeśa\" contains another account, in which Prince Siddhārtha has several wives, and a wife other than Yaśodharā is the one defending her, being witness of her innocence.\n\nFurthermore, in both the Mūlasarvāstivāda texts and the \"Mahāprajñāpāramitāupadeśa\", there is a third account that proves Yaśodharā's innocence: the Buddha makes everyone around him look identical to him, through a supernatural accomplishment. Rāhula proves that the Buddha is his true father when he manages to approach the real Buddha straight away. In a fourth story about proving Yaśodhara's purity, appearing in Chinese Avadāna-style texts from the 5th century CE onward, she is burnt alive, but miraculously survives. In this account, King Śuddhodana orders that she be killed by burning her alive as punishment for her alleged impurity. Instead of being hurt by the flames, however, she performs an act of truth and the fire transforms into a pond of water. Śuddhodana welcomes her and her son back into the clan, and later becomes very fond of Rāhula. Some Chinese Jātakas say that he recognizes his son Siddhārtha in the child, and manages to better cope with the loss of Prince Siddhārtha. Religion scholar Reiko Ohnuma sees the fire ordeal as a metaphor that parallels the Buddha's enlightenment, a similar argument that Strong makes.\n\nHistorian hypothesized that Prince Siddhārtha conceived Rāhula to please his parents, obtain their permission for leaving the palace and becoming a mendicant. He further speculated that the prince only conceived a son thirteen years after his marriage, because Yaśodharā initially did not want to bear a child, for fear that the prince would leave the palace and the throne as soon as the child was conceived. Orientalist and missionary believed that a late gestation period was more historically probable than the birth on the same day as in the Pāli tradition. She believed that if Prince Siddhārtha had left an heir to the throne, there would have been no sound reason for him to leave secretly at night. She further argued that there are many sources that try to explain the long gestation period, indicating an established tradition.\n\nBesides historical speculations, Buddhist Studies scholar Kate Crosby argues that Prince Siddhārtha conceiving or giving birth to a son before his renunciation functions as a motif to prove that he is the best at each possible path in life: after having tried the life of a father to the fullest, he decides to leave it behind for a better alternative. In early Buddhist India, being a father and bearing a son was seen as a spiritual and religious path as well as that of renouncing one's family, and Prince Siddhārtha's bringing a son in the world before renunciation proves he is capable of both.\n\nThe accounts continue and describe that Rāhula is raised by his mother Yaśodharā and grandfather King Śuddhodana. When Rāhula is seven, nine or fifteen years old, the Buddha returns to his home city of Kapilavastu at the request of Śuddhodana. The Mahāvastu text from the Lokottaravāda tradition states that the royals try to prevent Rāhula from learning about the return of his father, but eventually he insists to know who the \"Great Ascetic\" about to arrive is, and he is toldindologist Bhikkhu Telwatte Rahula argues that the child was conscious of being without father. Next, the Mahāvastu and the Mūlasarvāstivāda texts relate that Yaśodharā tries to tempt the Buddha back into his life as a prince by having Rāhula offer the Buddha an aphrodisiac. Mūlasarvāstivāda texts continue and tell that her plan backfires when the Buddha has Rāhula eat it himself, and Rāhula therefore becomes enamored by his father and wishes to follow him. In the Pāli version of the story, on the seventh day of the Buddha's return, Yaśodharā takes Rāhula to see his father, the Buddha. She tells Rāhula that since his father has renounced the palace life and as he is the next royal prince in line, he should ask his father for his inheritance of crown and treasure, for his future sake when his grandfather will no longer rule the kingdom. After the Buddha has had a meal, Rāhula follows the Buddha, asking him for his inheritance. The Buddha does not try to prevent Rāhula from following him, but in some versions of the story, some women from the court do try to, yet Rāhula persists. He then looks at his father and says, \"Pleasant is your shadow, recluse\". Reaching the Park of Nigrodha, where the Buddha is staying, the Buddha considers that the heritage of the throne will one day perish, and is tied up with suffering and stress: \"I will give him the wealth I obtained under the tree of enlightenment thus making him the heir of an inheritance that does not perish.\"\n\nMost traditions relate that the Buddha then calls Śāriputra and asks him to ordain Rāhula. Rāhula ordains and is the first \"śrāmaṇera\" (novice monk), and probably the first person in the monastic order to ordain in a formal way. In some versions of the story, such as the 9th century Chinese \"Weicengyou Yinyuan Jing\" (), a group of young boys ordain together with him. The king discovers that now his grandson, his son Nanda and a number of other young men in the royal family have ordained and left the palace. Seeing his daughter grieve, he asks the Buddha that from now on, he only ordain people with the consent of his parents. Śuddhodana explains that Rāhula's ordination was a great shock to him. The Buddha assents to the proposal. This rule is later expanded in the case of women ordaining, as both parents and the husband have to give permission first to allow women to join the order of monks and nuns. In some versions of the story of Rāhula's ordination, Yaśodharā also protests, but relents in the end. The Mahāvastu states, however, that Rāhula asks to ordain himself, and is eventually granted permission by Yaśodharā and Śuddhodana.\n\nArchaeologist Maurizio Taddei has noted that in many Gandharan art depictions, Rāhula's life is linked to that of a previous life of the Buddha, the hermit Sumedho. The Buddha giving his spiritual heritage to his son is compared to that of Sumedho allowing the Buddha Dīpaṃkara to walk over him, which is followed by Dipaṃkara predicting that Sumedho will become a Buddha in a future life. Both the figure of Gautama Buddha giving his inheritance to his son, and the figure of Dīpaṃkara Buddha giving his inheritance of Buddhahood to Sumedho are depicted with flames emitting from their bodies; both scenes are depictions of inheritance, filial and disciple piety; both may have been considered by 5th-century Buddhists to be representations of \"eager youth\".\n\nAccording to the Pāli texts, once Rāhula has become novice, the Buddha teaches Rāhula regularly. His instructions are very age-specific, using vivid metaphors and simple explanations. The Buddha's teachings have led to numerous discourses being named after Rāhula in the Early Buddhist Texts. Pāli texts relate how Rāhula grows up to become a novice that is diligent, dutiful, amenable and eager for learning, but there are also some early medieval Chinese and Japanese accounts which relate that Rāhula initially struggles with being a novice and only later appreciates the Buddha's teaching. Besides the Buddha, Śāriputra and Maugalyayāna also help to teach Rāhula. Rāhula often assists Śāriputra on his rounds for alms in the morning, and sometimes on other travels. Every morning, Rāhula wakes up and throws a handful of sand in the air, making the wish that he may be counselled by good teachers as much as those grains of sand.\n\nStill in the same year as Rāhula's ordination, the Buddha teaches his son the importance of telling the truth in a discourse known as the \"Ambalatthika-Rāhulovāda Sutta\". In this discourse, the Buddha teaches and encourages consistent self-reflection, to help let go of all evil actions that lead to harm to oneself and others, and to develop self-control and a moral life. He encourages reflection before, during and after one's actions, and explains that lying makes the spiritual life void and empty, leading to many other evils.\n\nWhen Rāhula becomes eighteen years old, the Buddha instructs Rāhula in a meditation technique to counter the desires that hinder him during his tours for alms. Rāhula has grown enamored with his own and his father's handsome appearance. To help Rāhula, the Buddha teaches another discourse to him. He tells Rāhula that all matter is not-self, and the same holds for the different parts of one's mental experience. Having heard the discourse, Rāhula starts to practice meditation. His teacher Śāriputra recommends him to practice breathing meditation, but is unable to give Rāhula the instructions he needs. Rāhula therefore asks the Buddha to explain the meditation method in more detail and the Buddha responds by describing several meditation techniques to him. On a similar note, the Buddha teaches Rāhula at a place called Andhavana about the impermanence of all things, and instructs him how to overcome the \"taints\" inside the mind. As a result, Rāhula attains enlightenment. Pāli tradition has it that the sermon is also attended by a crore of heavenly beings, who once had vowed to witness the enlightenment of the son of the Buddha. Rāhula obtains the name \"Rāhula the Lucky\" (; ), which he himself explains is because of being the son of the Buddha, and because of having attained enlightenment.\n\nLater, the Buddha declares that Rāhula is foremost among all disciples in eagerness in learning (). and in the Pāli Udāna, the Buddha includes him as one of eleven particularly praiseworthy disciples. Chinese sources add that he is also known for his patience, and that he is foremost in 'practicing with discretion' (), meaning practicing the Buddha's teaching consistently, dedication to the precepts and study, but without seeking praise or being proud because of being the son of the Buddha. Pāli texts give examples of Rāhula's strictness in monastic discipline. E.g. after there was a rule established that no novice could sleep in the same room as a fully ordained monk, Rāhula is said to have slept in an outdoor toilet. When the Buddha becomes aware of this, he admonishes the monks for not taking proper care of the novices. After that, the Buddha adjusts the rule.\n\nPāli texts state that despite Rāhula being his son, the Buddha did not particularly favor him: he is said to have loved problematic disciples such as Aṅgulimāla and Devadatta as much as his own son, without any bias.\n\nLater in Rāhula's life his mother Yaśodharā becomes ordained as a nun. In one story, the nun Yaśodharā falls ill with flatulence. Rāhula helps her recover by asking his teacher Śāriputra to find sweetened mango juice for her, which is the medicine she is used to and requires. Therefore, with Rāhula's help, she eventually recovers.\n\nWhen he is 20 years old, Rāhula fully ordains as a monk in Sāvatthī.\n\nRāhula's death receives little attention in the earliest sources. Rāhula dies before the Buddha and his teacher Śariputra do. According to Pāli and Chinese sources, this happens as he is travelling through the second Buddhist heaven (). According to the early \"Ekottara Āgama\" (Sārvastivāda or Mahāsaṅghika tradition) and the later \"Śāriputrapṛcchā\", however, Rāhula is one the four enlightened disciples whom Gautama Buddha asks to prolong their lives to stay in the world until the next Buddha Maitreya has risen, to protect the current Buddha's dispensation.\n\nFollowing the Pāli and Sanskrit language sources, Rāhula is the son of the Buddha-to-be throughout many lifetimes. He develops his habit of being amenable and easy to teach in previous lives. Pāli texts explain that in a previous life he was impressed by the son of a previous Buddha, and vowed to be like him in a future life.\n\nTexts in the Mahayāna tradition describe that Rāhula is the eleventh of the 16 Elders (; Chinese tradition added two elders in the 10th century, making for 18 Elders), enlightened disciples that have been entrusted with taking care of the Buddha's dispensation until the rising of Maitreya Buddha. Tradition states therefore that Rāhula is still alive, and resides with 1,100 of his pupils in an island called the 'land of chestnuts and grains' (). The pilgrim Xuan Zang (602664) heard a brahmin claim that he met Rāhula as an old man, who had delayed his passing into Nirvana and was therefore still alive. On a similar note, Rāhula is considered one of the Ten Principal Disciples, known for his dedication to training new monks and novices. Moreover, he is considered to be one of the 2328 masters in the lineage of the Tiantai tradition, one of the 28 in the Chan lineage, and one of the eight enlightened disciples in the Burmese tradition.\n\nAs one of the enlightened disciples responsible for protecting the Buddha's dispensation, Rāhula has often been depicted in East Asian art. He is depicted with a large, \"umbrella-shaped\" head, prominent eyes and a hooked nose.\n\nThe Chinese monks Xuan Zang and Faxian (320420 CE) noted during their pilgrimages in India that a cult existed that worshiped Rāhula, especially in the Madhura area. Whereas monks would worship certain early male disciples following their particular specialization, and nuns would honor Ānanda in gratitude for helping to set up the nun's order, novices would worship Rāhula. The two Chinese pilgrims noted that Emperor Aśoka built a monument in honor of Rāhula, especially meant for novices to pay their respects. Religious studies scholar Lori Meeks points out with regard to Japan, however, that Rāhula was not the individual object of any devotional cult, but was rather honored as part of a group of enlightened disciples, such as the 16 Elders. Exception to this was the 13th14th century, when the figure of Rāhula became an important part of a revival of devotion to early Buddhist disciples among the old Nara schools, as chanted lectures (\"kōshiki\") rites, and images were used in dedication to Rāhula. On regular days of religious observance, male and female novices performed rites and gave lectures in honor of Rāhula. These were popular with the laypeople, as well as with priests that aimed to revive early Buddhist monastic discipline. In the \"kōshiki\" Rāhula was praised extensively, and was described as the \"Eldest Child\", \"eldest\" being a devotional term, since Prince Siddhārtha had no other children.\n\nThe \"Lotus Sūtra\", as well as later East Asian texts such as the \"Raun Kōshiki\", relate that Gautama Buddha predicts Rāhula will become a Buddha in a future life, named \"Stepping on Seven Treasure Flowers\" (). In these texts, Rāhula was seen as a Mahāyāna type of Buddha-to-be, who would save many sentient beings and live in a Pure Land.\n\nThe exhortations the Buddha gives to Rāhula have also become part of his legacy. The \"Ambalatthika-Rāhulovāda Sutta\" became one of the seven Buddhist texts recommended for study in the inscriptions of the Emperor Aśoka. This discourse has been raised by modern ethicists as evidence for consequentalist ethics in Buddhism, though this is disputed.\n\nRāhula is mentioned as one of the founders of a system of Buddhist philosophy called the \"Vaibhāṣika\", which was part of the Sarvāstivāda schools. He is also considered by some Thai schools of Buddhist \"boran\" meditation to be the patron of their tradition, which is explained by referring to Rāhula's gradual development in meditation as opposed to the instant enlightenment of other disciples.\n\nFrom the narratives surrounding Rāhula several conclusions have been drawn with regard to Buddhist perspectives on childhood. Several scholars have raised Rāhula's example to indicate that children in Buddhism are seen as an obstacle to spiritual enlightenment, or that Buddhism, being a monastic religion, is not interested in children. Education scholar Yoshiharu Nakagawa argues, however, that Rāhula's story points at two ideals of childhood which exist parallel in Buddhism: that of the common child, subject to the human condition, and that of the child with a potential for enlightenment, who Crosby describes as a heroic disciple. Religion scholar Vanessa Sasson notes that although Prince Siddhārtha initially abandons his son, he comes back for him and offers a spiritual heritage to him as opposed to a material one. This heritage is given from a viewpoint of trust in the potential of the child Rāhula, presuming that the Buddhist path can also be accessed by children.\n\nThe acceptance of Rāhula in the monastic order as a child set a precedent, which later developed into a widespread Buddhist tradition of educating children in monasteries. The numerous teachings given to Rāhula have left behind teaching material which could be used for teaching children of different ages, and were sophisticated for the time period. Theravāda tradition further built on this genre, with Pāli manuals of religious teaching for novices.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "698598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=698598", "title": "Scalping", "text": "Scalping\n\nScalping is the act of cutting or tearing a part of the human scalp, with hair attached, from the head.\n\nThis can either occur as part of war with the scalp being a trophy, or as an accident. Scalp-taking is considered part of the broader cultural practice of the taking and display of human body parts as trophies, and may have developed as an alternative to the taking of human heads, for scalps were easier to take, transport, and preserve for subsequent display. Scalping independently developed in various cultures in both the Old and New Worlds.\n\nIn England in 1036, Earl Godwin, father of Harold Godwinson, was reportedly responsible for scalping his enemies. According to the ancient Abingdon manuscript, 'some of them were blinded, some maimed, some scalped. No more horrible deed was done in this country since the Danes came and made peace here'.\n\nGeorg Frederici noted that “Herodotus provided the only clear and satisfactory portrayal of a scalping people in the old world” in his description of the Scythians, a nomadic people then located to the north and west of the Black Sea. Herodotus related that Scythian warriors would behead the enemies they defeated in battle and present the heads to their king to claim their share of the plunder. Then, the warrior would skin the head “by making a circular cut round the ears and shaking out the skull; he then scrapes the flesh off the skin with the rib of an ox, and when it is clean works it with his fingers until it is supple, and fit to be used as a sort of handkerchief. He hangs these handkerchiefs on the bridle of his horse, and is very proud of them. The best man is the man who has the greatest number.”\n\nAmmianus Marcellinus noted the taking of scalps by the Alani, a people of Asiatic Scythia, in terms quite similar to those used by Herodotus.\n\nThe Abbé Emmanuel H. D. Domenech referenced the \"decalvare\" of the ancient Germans and the \"capillos et cutem detrahere\" of the code of the Visigoths as examples of scalping in early medieval Europe, though some more recent interpretations of these terms relate them to shaving off the hair of the head as a legal punishment rather than scalping.\n\nIn 1845, mercenary John Duncan observed what he estimated to be 700 scalps taken in warfare and displayed as trophies by a contingent of female soldiers — Dahomey Amazons — employed by the King of Dahomey (present-day Republic of Benin). Duncan noted that these would have been taken and kept over a long period of time and would not have come from a single battle. Although Duncan travelled widely in Dahomey, and described customs such as the taking of heads and the retention of skulls as trophies, nowhere else does he mention scalping.\n\nSpecific scalping techniques varied somewhat from place to place, depending on the cultural patterns of the scalper regarding the desired shape, size, and intended use of the severed scalp, and on how the victims wore their hair, but the general process of scalping was quite uniform. The scalper firmly grasped the hair of a subdued adversary, made several quick semicircular cuts with a sharp instrument on either side of the area to be taken, and then vigorously yanked at the nearly-severed scalp. The scalp separated from the skull along the plane of the areolar connective tissue, the fourth (and least substantial) of the five layers of the human scalp. Scalping was not in itself fatal, though it was most commonly inflicted on the gravely wounded or the dead. The earliest instruments used in scalping were stone knives crafted of flint, chert, or obsidian, or other materials like reeds or oyster shells that could be worked to carry an edge equal to the task. Collectively, such tools were also used for a variety of everyday tasks like skinning and processing game, but were replaced by metal knives acquired in trade through European contact. The implement, often referred to as a “scalping knife” in popular American and European literature, was not known as such by Native Americans, a knife being for them just a simple and effective multi-purpose utility tool for which scalping was but one of many uses.\n\nAuthor and historian Mark van de Logt wrote, \"Although military historians tend to reserve the concept of 'total war, in which civilians are targeted, \"for conflicts between modern industrial nations,\" the term \"closely approaches the state of affairs between the Pawnees, the Sioux, and the Cheyennes. Noncombatants were legitimate targets. Indeed, the taking of a scalp of a woman or child was considered honorable because it signified that the scalp taker had dared to enter the very heart of the enemy's territory.\"\nMany tribes of Native Americans practiced scalping, in some instances up until the end of the 19th century. Of the approximately 500 bodies at the Crow Creek massacre site, 90 percent of the skulls show evidence of scalping. The event took place \"circa\" 1325 AD.\n\nAuthorities of New Spain offered bounties on heads to suppress indigenous tribes in Durango as early as 1616. The Connecticut and Massachusetts colonies offered bounties for the heads of murdered Native Americans, and later for just their scalps, during the Pequot War in the 1630s; Connecticut specifically reimbursed Mohegans for slaying the Pequot in 1637. Four years later, the Dutch in New Amsterdam offered bounties for the heads of Raritans. In 1643, the Iroquois attacked a group of Huron pelters and French carpenters near Montreal, killing and scalping three of the French.\n\nBounties for indigenous captives or their scalps appeared in the legislation of the American colonies during the Susquehannock War (1675–77). New England offered bounties to white settlers and Narragansett people in 1675 during King Philip's War. By 1692, New France also paid their native allies for scalps of their enemies. In 1697, on the northern frontier of Massachusetts colony, settler Hannah Dustin killed ten of her Abenaki captors during her nighttime escape, presented their ten scalps to the Massachusetts General Assembly, and was rewarded with bounties for two men, two women, and six children. There were six colonial wars with New England and the Iroquois Confederacy fighting New France and the Wabanaki Confederacy over a 75-year period, starting with King William's War in 1688. All sides scalped victims, including noncombatants, during this frontier warfare. Bounty policies originally intended only for Native American scalps were extended to enemy colonists.\n\nMassachusetts created a scalp bounty during King William's War in July 1689. During Queen Anne's War, by 1703, the Massachusetts Bay Colony was offering $60 for each native scalp. During Father Rale's War (1722–1725), on August 8, 1722, Massachusetts put a bounty on native families. Ranger John Lovewell is known to have conducted scalp-hunting expeditions, the most famous being the Battle of Pequawket in New Hampshire.\n\nIn the 1710s and '20s, New France engaged in frontier warfare with the Natchez people and the Meskwaki people, during which both sides would employ the practice. In response to repeated massacres of British families by the French and their native allies during King George's War, Massachusetts governor William Shirley issued a bounty in 1746 to be paid to British-allied Indians for the scalps of French-allied Indian men, women, and children. New York passed a Scalp Act in 1747.\n\nDuring Father Le Loutre's War and the Seven Years' War in Nova Scotia and Acadia, French colonists offered payments to Indians for British scalps. In 1749, British Governor Edward Cornwallis offered payment to New England Rangers for Indian scalps. Both the Mi'kmaq people and the British killed combatants and non-combatants (i.e., women, children, and infants). Also during the Seven Years' War, Governor of Nova Scotia Charles Lawrence offered a reward for male Mi'kmaq scalps in 1756. (In 2000, some Mi'kmaq argued that this proclamation was still legal in Nova Scotia. Government officials argued that it was no longer legal because the bounty was superseded by later treaties - see the Burying the Hatchet ceremony).\n\nDuring the French and Indian War, as of June 12, 1755, Massachusetts governor William Shirley was offering a bounty of £40 for a male Indian scalp, and £20 for scalps of females or of children under 12 years old. In 1756, Pennsylvania Lieutenant Governor Robert Morris, in his Declaration of War against the Lenni Lenape (Delaware) people, offered \"130 Pieces of Eight, for the Scalp of Every Male Indian Enemy, above the Age of Twelve Years,\" and \"50 Pieces of Eight for the Scalp of Every Indian Woman, produced as evidence of their being killed.\"\n\nIn the American Revolutionary War, Henry Hamilton, the Lieutenant Governor and Superintendent of Indian Affairs at Fort Detroit, was known by American Patriots as the \"hair-buyer general\" because they believed he encouraged and paid his Native American allies to scalp American settlers. When Hamilton was captured in the war by the colonists, he was treated as a war criminal instead of a prisoner of war because of this. However, American historians have conceded that there was no positive proof that he had ever offered rewards for scalps. It is now assumed that during the American Revolution, no British officer paid for scalps. During the Sullivan Expedition, the September 13, 1779 journal entry of Lieutenant William Barton tells of patriots participating in scalping.\nIn 1835, the government of the Mexican state of Sonora put a bounty on the Apache which, over time, evolved into a payment by the government of 100 pesos for each scalp of a male 14 or more years old . In 1837, the Mexican state of Chihuahua also offered a bounty on Apache scalps, 100 pesos per warrior, 50 pesos per woman, and 25 pesos per child. Harris Worcester wrote: \"The new policy attracted a diverse group of men, including Anglos, runaway slaves led by Seminole John Horse, and Indians — Kirker used Delawares and Shawnees; others, such as Terrazas, used Tarahumaras; and Seminole Chief Coacoochee led a band of his own people who had fled from Indian Territory.\"\n\nSome scalping incidents even occurred during the American Civil War. For example, Confederate guerrillas led by \"Bloody Bill\" Anderson were well known for decorating their saddles with the scalps of Union soldiers they had killed. Archie Clement had the reputation of being Anderson’s “chief scalper”.\n\nIn 1851, the U.S. Army displayed Indian scalps in Stanislaus County, California. In Tehama County, California, U.S. military and local volunteers razed villages and scalped hundreds of men, women, and children.\n\nScalping also occurred during the Sand Creek Massacre on November 29, 1864, during the American Indian Wars, when a 700-man force of U.S. Army volunteers destroyed the village of Cheyenne and Arapaho in southeastern Colorado Territory, killing and mutilating an estimated 70–163 Native Americans. An 1867 \"New York Times\" article reported that \"settlers in a small town in Colorado Territory had recently subscribed $5,000 to a fund ‘for the purpose of buying Indian scalps (with $25 each to be paid for scalps with the ears on)’ and that the market for Indian scalps ‘is not affected by age or sex’.\" The article noted this behavior was \"sanctioned\" by the U.S. federal government, and was modeled on patterns the U.S. had begun a century earlier in the \"American East\".\n\nFrom one writer's point of view, it was a \"uniquely American\" innovation that the use of scalp bounties in the wars against indigenous societies \"became an indiscriminate killing process that deliberately targeted Indian non-combatants (including women, children, and infants), as well as warriors.\"\n\nAccidental scalping has become a public health issue in Brazil along the Amazon River, where numerous boaters have been scalped after becoming ensnared by propellers or motors of unregulated watercraft.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2261087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2261087", "title": "Sign of the horns", "text": "Sign of the horns\n\nThe sign of the horns (also known as metal horns, devil horns, rock horns, and other names) is a gesture often used when listening to heavy metal.\n\nIn Hinduism, the hand gesture is known as the \"Apana yogic mudra.\" In Indian classical dance forms, the hand gesture symbolises the Lion. In Buddhism, it is seen as an apotropaic gesture very commonly used by Gautama Buddha as \"Karana Mudra\" which is synonymous with expulsion of demons and removal of obstacles like sickness or negative thoughts.\n\nThe apotropaic usage of the sign can also be seen in Italy and in other Mediterranean cultures where, when confronted with unfortunate events, or simply when these events are mentioned, the sign of the horns may be given to ward off bad luck. It is also used traditionally to counter or ward off the \"evil eye\" (\"malocchio\" in Italian). In Italy specifically, the gesture is known as the \"corna\". With fingers pointing down, it is a common Mediterranean apotropaic gesture, by which people seek protection in unlucky situations (it is thus a more Mediterranean equivalent of knocking on wood). Thus, for example, the President of the Italian Republic, Giovanni Leone, shocked the country when, while in Naples during an outbreak of cholera, he shook the hands of patients with one hand while with the other behind his back he superstitiously made the \"corna\", presumably to ward off the disease or in reaction to being confronted by such misfortune. This act was well documented by the journalists and photographers who were right behind him, a fact that had escaped President Leone's mind in that moment.\n\nIn Italy and other parts of the Mediterranean region, the gesture must usually be performed with the fingers tilting downward to signify the warding off of bad luck; in the same region and elsewhere, the gesture may take a different, offensive and insulting meaning if it is performed with fingers upward or if directed aggressively towards someone in a swiveling motion (see section below). In Italy, one can also \"touch iron\" (\"tocca ferro\") or touch one's nose to ward off bad luck. Males in Italy may also grab their testicles when confronted by bad luck; however, this is considered more vulgar.\n\nIn Peru, one says \"contra\" (against). In the Dominican Republic, the expression is \"zafa\", said against curses known as \"fukú\". All of these gestures are meant to conjure supernatural protection.\n\nThe sign of the horns is used during religious rituals in Wicca, to invoke or represent the Horned God.\n\nIn many Mediterranean and Latin countries, such as Argentina, Brazil, Chile, Colombia, Cuba, France, Greece, Italy, Portugal, Spain, Mexico, Peru, Ecuador, Venezuela and Uruguay, when directed towards someone and swiveled back and forth, the sign implies cuckoldry; the common words for \"cuckolded\" in Italian, Greek and Spanish are , () and , respectively, literally meaning \"horned\". During a European Union meeting in February 2002, then-current Italian prime minister Silvio Berlusconi was photographed performing this gesture behind the back of the Spanish foreign minister.\n\nMarlon Brando makes the sign whilst singing \"Luck Be a Lady\" in the film \"Guys and Dolls\" (1955), seeming to indicate it was a sign for snake eyes in the craps game he is playing for the gamblers' souls.\n\nOn the cover of the Beatles' \"Yellow Submarine\" album (1969), the cartoon of John Lennon's right hand is making the sign above Paul McCartney's head. Some fans interpreted this as one of the many supposed \"Paul is dead\" clues. Some may think it is possible that the cartoonist misrepresented the sign for \"I love you\", which is very similar and more in keeping with the band's public message and image. However, the 1969 cartoon is based on many photos of John Lennon making the hand sign in 1967. One of these photos of Lennon doing the hand sign appears on the cover of a Beatles single release shortly after, making it the first time the hand sign appears on a rock release.\n\nThe back cover of the album \"Witchcraft Destroys Minds & Reaps Souls\" (1969) by Chicago-based psychedelic-occult rock band Coven pictured band members giving the \"sign of the horns\". Starting in early 1968, Coven concerts always began and ended with singer Jinx Dawson giving the sign on stage.\n\nThe sign is also used in various Disney movies. It can be seen in the medieval-style opening sequence of the British-American Disney movie \"Bedknobs and Broomsticks\" (1971) as a goat-legged figure with a jester's cap, leading a procession of outlandish-looking figures, flashes the sign.\n\nBeginning in the early 1970s, the horns were known as the \"P-Funk sign\" to fans of Parliament-Funkadelic. It was used by George Clinton and Bootsy Collins as the password to the Mothership, a central element in Parliament's science-fiction mythology, and fans used it in return to show their enthusiasm for the band. Collins is depicted showing the P-Funk sign on the cover of his 1977 album \"Ahh... The Name Is Bootsy, Baby!\"\n\nIn 1977, a painting of Gene Simmons (of the band KISS) exhibits the sign on the cover of \"Love Gun\", the band's sixth studio album. Simmons still utilizes the sign, both on and off stage.\n\nFrank Zappa can be seen jokingly making the gesture in the film \"Baby Snakes\" (1979) in response to the audience, commenting, \"That's right, spindle twice.\"\n\nFor the Indian movie \"Rock On 2\" (2016), the sign of the horns is used to represent \"2\".\n\nRonnie James Dio was known for popularizing the sign of the horns in heavy metal. He claimed his Italian grandmother used it to ward off the evil eye (which is known in Southern Italy as \"malocchio\"). Dio began using the sign soon after joining the metal band Black Sabbath in 1979. The previous singer in the band, Ozzy Osbourne, was rather well known for using the \"peace\" sign at concerts, raising the index and middle finger in the form of a V. Dio, in an attempt to connect with the fans, wanted to similarly use a hand gesture. However, not wanting to copy Osbourne, he chose to use the sign his grandmother always made. The horns became famous in metal concerts very soon after Black Sabbath's first tour with Dio. The sign would later be appropriated by heavy metal fans under the name \"maloik\", a corruption of the original \"malocchio\".\n\nTerry \"Geezer\" Butler of Black Sabbath can be seen \"raising the horns\" in a photograph taken in 1971. The photograph is included in the CD booklet of the \"\" compilation album. This would indicate that there had been some association between the \"horns\" and heavy metal before Dio's popularization of it.\n\nWhen asked if he was the one who introduced the hand gesture to metal subculture, Dio said in a 2001 interview with Metal-Rules.com:\n\nGene Simmons of the rock group KISS attempted to claim the similar-looking but unrelated variation, the ILY sign (thumb extended rather than thumb toward the palm) hand gesture for his own. According to CBS News, \"Simmons filed an application on Friday, June 16, 2017 with the U.S. Patent and Trademark Office for a trademark on the hand gesture he regularly uses during concerts and public appearances - thumb, index and pinky fingers extended, with the middle and ring fingers folded down. According to Simmons, this hand gesture was first used in commerce — by him — on Nov. 14, 1974. He is claiming the hand gesture should be trademarked for \"entertainment, namely live performances by a musical artist [and] personal appearances by a musical artist.\" \nSimmons abandoned this application on June 21, 2017 \n\nIn Wicca, the sign of the horns is used to represent the Horned God.\n\nIn text-based electronic communication, the sign of the horns is represented with the codice_1, codice_2 , codice_3 or codice_4 emoticon and sometimes with codice_5.\n\nThe Unicode character U+1F918 🤘 SIGN OF THE HORNS was introduced in Unicode 8.0 as an emoji, on June 17, 2015.\n\nHook 'em Horns is the slogan and hand signal of the University of Texas at Austin. Students and alumni of the university employ a greeting consisting of the phrase \"Hook 'em\" or \"Hook 'em Horns\" and also use the phrase as a parting good-bye or as the closing line in a letter or story. The gesture is meant to approximate the shape of the head and horns of the UT mascot, the Texas Longhorn Bevo.\n\nFans of the University of South Florida Bulls use the same hand sign at their athletic events, except that the hand is turned around and facing the other way. With the middle and ring finger extending towards the person presenting the \"Go Bulls\" sign.\n\nFans of North Dakota State University Bison athletics also use a similar hand gesture, known as \"Go Bison!\" The pinky and index fingers are usually slightly bent, however, to mimic the shape of a bison's horns.\n\nFans of North Carolina State University Wolfpack athletics use a similar gesture with the middle and ring fingers moving up and down over the thumb to mimic a wolf's jaw.\n\nFans of University of California, Irvine Anteaters use a similar sign with the middle and ring fingers out to resemble the head of the mighty anteater.\n\nFans of University of Nevada, Reno Wolf Pack athletics use a similar sign with the middle and ring fingers out to resemble the wolf's snout.\n\nFans of University of Utah athletics, particularly football and gymnastics, use a gesture where the index and pinky finger are straight and parallel to each other, forming a block \"U.\"\n\nFans of Northwestern State University Demon athletics also use a similar hand gesture, known as \"Fork 'em!\" The pinky and index fingers are extended but a little more parallel to each other resembling the horns on a demon.\n\nArizona State University Sun Devils fans make a pitchfork sign by extending the index and middle fingers, as well as the pinky. The thumb holds down the ring finger to complete the gesture. The same gesture is used by fans of the Wichita State Shockers, which in this context represents a stylized \"W\".\n\nFans of the Grand Canyon University Antelopes use this hand gesture with a slight variation by touching the tips of the ring and middle finger with the thumb to form the shape of an antelope and its horns. Often followed by the phrase \"Lopes up\".\n\nFans of the Universidad de Chile soccer team use this gesture to represent their support for the team by forming a U-shaped hand gesture, often followed by the phrase \"Grande la U\".\n\nRetired professional wrestler Edge often used the Corna gesture during the later phase of his career, wherein he would raise both his hands in the very same gesture, which would result in his pyro going off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21715983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21715983", "title": "Slaven Tolj", "text": "Slaven Tolj\n\nSlaven Tolj (born in 1964), a multimedia artist from Dubrovnik, Croatia. He achieved international recognition for his installations, body art, and performances presenting distinct political and social-cultural criticism. \n\nThe beginning of Slaven Tolj’s work, as an artist, was determined by his experiences of the Yugoslav War, the Siege of Dubrovnik by the Yugoslavian army in the years 1991-1992, as well as the disintegration of former Yugoslavia.\nIn the course of the late 1990s Slaven Tolj gradually extended the scope of his art, incorporating themes and issues related to political transformation and the emergence of multiculturalism and globalization.\n\nSlaven Tolj has also been involved in organisational and curatorial activities. He is one of the founders of Art Workshop Lazareti in Dubrovnik – a key institution for contemporary art scene in Dubrovnik and Croatia. \n\nIn 2005 he was the commissioner of the Croatian pavilion at the Venice Biennale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46589273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46589273", "title": "Sonic Pi", "text": "Sonic Pi\n\nSonic Pi is a live coding environment based on Ruby, originally designed to support both computing and music lessons in schools, developed by Sam Aaron in the University of Cambridge Computer Laboratory in collaboration with Raspberry Pi Foundation. Thanks to its use of the Supercollider synthesis engine and accurate timing model, it is also used for live coding and other forms of algorithmic music performance and production, including at algoraves. Its research and development has been supported by Nesta, via the \"Sonic PI: Live & Coding\" project.\n"}
{"id": "11092324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11092324", "title": "The central science", "text": "The central science\n\nChemistry is often called the central science because of its role in connecting the physical sciences, which include chemistry, with the life sciences and applied sciences such as medicine and engineering. The nature of this relationship is one of the main topics in the philosophy of chemistry and in scientometrics. The phrase was popularized by its use in a textbook by Theodore L. Brown and H. Eugene LeMay, titled \"Chemistry: The Central Science\", which was first published in 1977, with a thirteenth edition published in 2014.\n\nThe central role of chemistry can be seen in the systematic and hierarchical classification of the sciences by Auguste Comte in which each discipline provides a more general framework for the area it precedes (mathematics → astronomy → physics → chemistry → physiology and medicine → social sciences). Balaban and Klein have more recently proposed a diagram showing partial ordering of sciences in which chemistry may be argued is “the central science” since it provides a significant degree of branching. In forming these connections the lower field cannot be fully reduced to the higher ones. It is recognized that the lower fields possess emergent ideas and concepts that do not exist in the higher fields of science.\n\nThus chemistry is built on an understanding of laws of physics that govern particles such as atoms, protons, neutrons, electrons, thermodynamics, etc. although it has been shown that it has not been “fully 'reduced' to quantum mechanics”. Concepts such as the periodicity of the elements and chemical bonds in chemistry are emergent in that they are more than the underlying forces that are defined by physics.\n\nIn the same way, biology cannot be fully reduced to chemistry despite the fact that the machinery that is responsible for life is composed of molecules. For instance, the machinery of evolution may be described in terms of chemistry by the understanding that it is a mutation in the order of genetic base pairs in the DNA of an organism. However, chemistry cannot fully describe the process since it does not contain concepts such as natural selection that are responsible for driving evolution. Chemistry is fundamental to biology since it provides a methodology for studying and understanding the molecules that compose cells.\n\nConnections made by chemistry are formed through various sub-disciplines that utilize concepts from multiple scientific disciplines. Chemistry and physics are both needed in the areas of physical chemistry, nuclear chemistry, and theoretical chemistry. Chemistry and biology intersect in the areas of biochemistry, medicinal chemistry, molecular biology, chemical biology, molecular genetics, and immunochemistry. Chemistry and the earth sciences intersect in areas like geochemistry and hydrology.\n\n"}
{"id": "303405", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=303405", "title": "Universal set", "text": "Universal set\n\nIn set theory, a universal set is a set which contains all objects, including itself. In set theory as usually formulated, the conception of a universal set leads to a paradox (Russell's paradox) and is consequently not allowed. However, some non-standard variants of set theory include a universal set.\n\nThere is no standard notation for the universal set of a given set theory. Common symbols include V, U and ξ.\n\nZermelo–Fraenkel set theory and related set theories, which are based on the idea of the cumulative hierarchy, do not allow for the existence of a universal set. It is directly contradicted by the axiom of regularity, and its existence would cause paradoxes which would make the theory inconsistent.\n\nRussell's paradox prevents the existence of a universal set in Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory and other set theories that include Zermelo's axiom of comprehension.\nThis axiom states that, for any formula formula_1 and any set , there exists another set \nthat contains exactly those elements of that satisfy formula_3. If a universal set  existed and the axiom of comprehension could be applied to it, then\nthere would also exist another set formula_4, the set of all sets that do not contain themselves. However, as Bertrand Russell observed, this set is paradoxical. If it contains itself, then it should not contain itself, and vice versa. For this reason, it cannot exist.\n\nA second difficulty with the idea of a universal set concerns the power set of the set of all sets. Because this power set is a set of sets, it would necessarily be a subset of the set of all sets, provided that both exist. However, this conflicts with Cantor's theorem that the power set of any set (whether infinite or not) always has strictly higher cardinality than the set itself.\n\nThe difficulties associated with a universal set can be avoided either by using a variant of set theory in which the axiom of comprehension is restricted in some way, or by using a universal object that is not considered to be a set.\n\nThere are set theories known to be consistent (if the usual set theory is consistent) in which the universal set does exist (and formula_5 is true). In these theories, Zermelo's axiom of comprehension does not hold in general, and the axiom of comprehension of naive set theory is restricted in a different way. A set theory containing a universal set is necessarily a non-well-founded set theory.\nThe most widely studied set theory with a universal set is Willard Van Orman Quine's New Foundations. Alonzo Church and also published work on such set theories. Church speculated that his theory might be extended in a manner consistent with Quine's,\n\nAnother example is positive set theory, where the axiom of comprehension is restricted to hold only for the positive formulas (formulas that do not contain negations). Such set theories are motivated by notions of closure in topology.\n\nThe idea of a universal set seems intuitively desirable in the Zermelo–Fraenkel set theory, particularly because most versions of this theory do allow the use of quantifiers over all sets (see universal quantifier). One way of allowing an object that behaves similarly to a universal set, without creating paradoxes, is to describe and similar large collections as proper classes rather than as sets. One difference between a universal set and a universal class is that the universal class does not contain itself, because proper classes cannot be elements of other classes. Russell's paradox does not apply in these theories because the axiom of comprehension operates on sets, not on classes.\n\nThe category of sets can also be considered to be a universal object that is, again, not itself a set. It has all sets as elements, and also includes arrows for all functions from one set to another. \nAgain, it does not contain itself, because it is not itself a set.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38738329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38738329", "title": "Verity", "text": "Verity\n\nVerity (\"alias\" Veretie, Verety, Verita, Veritie, etc.) is a female first name and a surname. As a first name it derives from the Latin feminine noun \"veritas\", meaning \"truth\". It is thus an equivalent of Alethea, a female first name first used in England \"circa\" 1585, derived from the ancient and modern Greek feminine noun \"αλήθεια\" (pronounced \"al-ee-thia\"), meaning \"truth\". It was adopted in England as a Puritan virtue name, truthfulness being considered as a desirable attribute especially in a female. Verity was one of the most popular first names given to girls in Australia. It is especially associated with parts of Yorkshire and Northern England. Verity is also a surname, which may have more ancient unrelated origins, possibly being a corruption of a similar word. Notable people with the name include:\n\n\n\n"}
