{"id": "58437730", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58437730", "title": "1433 in philosophy", "text": "1433 in philosophy\n\n1433 in philosophy\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14662105", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14662105", "title": "2005 CIA interrogation videotapes destruction", "text": "2005 CIA interrogation videotapes destruction\n\nThe CIA interrogation videotapes destruction occurred on November 9, 2005. The videotapes were made by the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) during interrogations of Al-Qaeda suspects Abu Zubaydah and Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri in 2002 at a CIA black site prison in Thailand. Ninety tapes were made of Zubaydah and two of al-Nashiri. Twelve tapes depict interrogations using \"enhanced interrogation\", a euphemism for torture. The tapes and their destruction became public knowledge in December 2007. A criminal investigation by a Department of Justice special prosecutor, John Durham, decided in 2010 to not file any criminal charges related to destroying the videotapes.\n\nThe first high value detainee in CIA custody was Abu Zubaydah. He was held at a black site in Thailand starting in the spring of 2002. Near the beginning of Zubaydah's detention, a video camera was set up to continuously tape him. Tapes were also made of another early CIA detainee, Abd al-Rahim al-Nashiri, who arrived in October. The tapes were made from April to December 2002. Ninety tapes were made of Zubaydah and two of al-Nashiri. Twelve tapes depict interrogations using \"enhanced interrogation\" techniques, reportedly including Zubaydah \"vomiting and screaming\" during a waterboarding session.\n\nSoon after the taping had stopped, CIA clandestine operation officers were pushing for the tapes to be destroyed. However, the General Counsel of the CIA, Scott W. Muller, advised the CIA director, George Tenet, to not destroy the tapes on the CIA's authority. Instead, Muller notified the House and Senate Intelligence Committees in February 2003 that the CIA would like to have them destroyed. Representatives Porter Goss and Jane Harman thought that would be politically and legally risky.\n\nDays after the photographs from Abu Ghraib became public in May 2004, the CIA tapes were discussed among CIA and White House lawyers. Muller, representing the CIA, met with Alberto Gonzales, David Addington and John B. Bellinger III. The three White House lawyers recommended that the tapes not be destroyed.\n\nTenet and Muller left the CIA in mid-2004. By late 2004, several top leadership positions at the CIA had changed. Goss was Director, John A. Rizzo was acting General Counsel, and Jose A. Rodriguez Jr. was chief of the Directorate of Operations. There was also a new White House Counsel, Harriet Miers. In early 2005, Miers told Rizzo not to destroy the tapes without checking with the White House first.\n\nOn November 4, 2005, just after the \"Washington Post\" had printed a story about the existence of secret prisons run by the CIA in Eastern Europe, Rodriguez called two CIA lawyers for their opinions. Steven Hermes, a clandestine service lawyer, told Rodriguez he had the authority to destroy the tapes. Robert Eatinger, the top lawyer at the CIA Counterterrorism Center, said there was no legal requirement to keep the tapes. The AP reported that, as both lawyers knew of standing orders from the White House not to destroy the tapes, neither thought Rodriguez would immediately act based on their advice.\n\nRodriguez sent a cable to the CIA's Bangkok station ordering the destruction of the tapes on November 8, 2005. The cable was not copied to anyone other than Rodriguez's chief of staff. It was against standard procedure to act on the advice of agency lawyers without copying them on a decision. Rodriguez informed Goss and Rizzo on November 10, 2005. Rodriguez was never reprimanded for the destruction of the tapes. According to Rodriguez's memoir, Gina Haspel was responsible for \"draft[ing] a cable\" ordering the destruction.\n\nBeginning in 2003, lawyers for Zacarias Moussaoui asked for videotapes of interrogations of detainees that might help prove Moussaoui wasn't involved in the September 11 attacks.\n\nIn May 2005, Senator Jay Rockefeller made a request on behalf of the Senate Judiciary Committee for the CIA to turn over a hundred documents related to the alleged torture of prisoners in American custody. In September, after Porter Goss was named as the new Director of the CIA, Rockefeller renewed his request. Both times, he also mentioned the videotapes, which \"undoubtedly sent a shiver through the agency\".\n\nFrom May to November 2005, Judge Leonie Brinkema was also pressuring the CIA to turn over any videotapes of detainee interrogations as evidence in the trial against Moussaoui. On November 14, the Department of Justice told the court that the CIA did not possess the videotapes that were requested.\n\nThe tapes were not provided to the September 11 Commission, which used classified transcripts of interrogations of Zubaydah in writing its report. Philip D. Zelikow, the Executive Director of the Commission, stated, \"We believe that we asked for such material and we are sure that we were not provided such material.\"\n\nThe ACLU claimed that at the time they were destroyed, the tapes should have been turned over according to a federal court order to comply with a FOIA request for information about interrogations. A federal judge ruled in 2011 that the CIA would not be sanctioned for the destruction.\n\nOn December 6, 2007, \"The New York Times\" advised the Bush administration that they had acquired, and planned to publish, information about the destruction of tapes made of Zubaydah's interrogation, believed to show instances of waterboarding and other forms of possible torture.\n\nMichael Hayden, the Director of Central Intelligence, sent a letter to CIA staff the next day, briefing them on the destruction of the tapes. Hayden asserted that key members of Congress had been briefed on the existence of the tapes, and the plans for their destruction. Senator Jay Rockefeller, the chair of the Senate Intelligence Committee, disputed Hayden's assertion, saying that he only learned of the tapes in November 2006, a year after their destruction.\n\nJane Harman, the ranking Democrat on the House Intelligence Committee and one of just four senior members of Congress who was briefed on the existence of the tapes, acknowledged being briefed. Harman responded to Hayden's assertions by saying she had objected, in writing, to the tapes' destruction. \"I told the CIA that destroying videotapes of interrogations was a bad idea and urged them in writing not to do it,\" Harman stated.\n\nOn December 8, 2007, the CIA Office of Inspector General and the Department of Justice announced a preliminary joint investigation into the destruction of videotapes of interrogations of the first two detainees in the CIA's custody. Attorney General Michael Mukasey announced the appointment of Connecticut federal prosecutor John H. Durham to start a criminal investigation of the destruction of the tapes on January 2, 2008.\nHayden claimed that the continued existence of the tapes represented a threat to the CIA personnel involved, saying that if the tapes were leaked they might result in CIA personnel being identified and targeted for retaliation. Hayden stated that the tapes were destroyed \"only after it was determined they were no longer of intelligence value and not relevant to any internal, legislative, or judicial inquiries.\"\nIn February 2009, the Obama administration revealed that the CIA had destroyed ninety-two videotapes that contained hundreds of hours of the interrogations.\n\nOn November 8, 2010, Durham closed the investigation without recommending any criminal charges be filed.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36971509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36971509", "title": "Abd al-Rahman al-Tamanarti", "text": "Abd al-Rahman al-Tamanarti\n\nAbu Zayd Abd al-Rahman al-Jazuli al-Tamanarti al-Mghafri (died 1070 AH, 1659/60 AD) was a qadi of the Moroccan town Taroudannt and grand qadi of the Sous area. He is the author of \" Fawaid al Jamma bi Isnadi Ouloumi al Oumma\", an autobiographical work of great historical value that also includes biographies of his instructors. Appended to this work is a chapter about dreams, \"Bab al-rabi\".\n"}
{"id": "38804295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38804295", "title": "Al-Quda'i", "text": "Al-Quda'i\n\nMuḥammad ibn Salāma al-Quḍā'ī (died 1062) was a Shafi'i judge, preacher and historian in Fatimid Egypt. He is known as author of a work called \"The Prophet's genealogy, his birth, his emigration and his death.\" The manuscript has been preserved. He was of Iranian origin.\n\nal-Quḍā'ī was a scribe in the chancery under the vizier Alī ibn Aḥmad al-Jarjarā'ī (died 1045).\nHe was in the chancery at the same time as the scholar al-Mu'ayyad al-Shīrāzī (died 1078).\nHe served under the Fatimids as a judge over the Sunni population.\nHe performed the Hajj in 1053.\nIn 1055 he made a journey to Byzantium as emissary of the caliph.\n\nHe earned great respect for his scholarship, particularly regarding hadith, and many hadith works include him as one of their transmitters.\nThe jurist al-Silafī (died 1180) said of him, \"His fame absolves me from lengthy expositions... he is counted among the trustworthy and reliable transmitters.\"\nAccording to his student Ibn Mākūlā, \"He was a master of many different sciences... I do not know anyone in Egypt who approaches his stature.\"\n\nApart from his work on Muhammad, al-Quḍā'ī also wrote a terse history of the prophets and caliphs. \nHe said in the introduction that he had observed brevity, but that it was \"amply sufficient for entertainment and conversation.\"\nIn some cases his history of a caliph would give little more than a short character sketch, the names of his wives and children, and names of officials during his rule.\nAlthough al-Quḍā'ī's history of the Fatimids has been lost, it was used by al-Maqrizi and others in later works. \nHis description of Fustat before its decline and ruin after his death was a key resource for al-Maqrizi in understanding the former topography of the city.\nHe also wrote a pamphlet that contained some of the best-known Maliki laws.\n\nHis book of the parables and teachings of the Prophet, a \"hadith\" collection, was widely read.\nFour Morisco versions from Spain are known, three from Almonacid. One is in Arabic, one only in \"aljamia\" and two are bi-lingual.\nHis work on the Prophet's life has not been examined. \nIt was the basis for a work by Shīrawayh al-Daylamī that was criticized by Ibn Taymīya for fanciful and adulatory statements about Muhammad,\nwhich indicates that the work by al-Quḍā'ī was also concerned more with the Prophet as an exemplary man than as a religious and political leader.\n\nHis recorded works include:\n\nCitations\n\nSources\n"}
{"id": "11586620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11586620", "title": "Arihiro Fukuda", "text": "Arihiro Fukuda\n\nFukuda received an M.Litt. degree in modern history from the University of Oxford in 1992, His master's thesis, \"James Harrington and the idea of mixed government, 1642–1683\", was selected for publication in the series Oxford Historical Monographs. It appeared in an expanded book form as \"Sovereignty and the Sword: Harrington, Hobbes, and Mixed Government in the English Civil Wars\" in 1997.\n\nFollowing his return to Japan, Fukuda retained close ties to academia in the UK. His Oxford college, St Edmund Hall, extended him rights of the Senior Common Room, a privilege usually reserved for college fellows. He contributed a haiku to the 2001 anthology, \"Chatter of Choughs\", which was devoted to the heraldic symbol of St Edmund Hall, the Cornish chough.\n\nFukuda died suddenly on 16 November 2003.\n\nThe 18th Comparative Law and Politics Symposium held at the University of Tokyo on 2004-09-29, entitled \"Republicanism in Historical Contexts\", was dedicated to the memory of Arihiro Fukuda.\n\nOne of Fukuda's main contributions to the history of political thought is a critique of J.G.A. Pocock's understanding of republicanism. According to Eric M. Nelson, Fukuda has argued for seeing Renaissance republicanism as not only a political structure, but also as an ethical position.\n\nIn \"Sovereignty and the Sword\", Fukuda is credited with offering a new interpretation of Harrington's ideas on republicanism, based on a \"post-Pocockian analysis\".\n\n"}
{"id": "56155376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56155376", "title": "Astrid Fischel Volio", "text": "Astrid Fischel Volio\n\nAstrid Fischel Volio (born 1954) is a Costa Rican historian and politician. \n\nAstrid Fischel Volio was educated at the University of Costa Rica and the University of Southampton. From 1984 to 1998 she was Professor at the History and Geography School of the University of Costa Rica. \n\nFrom 1998 to 2002 she was First Vice President and Minister of Culture. She was appointed Minister of Education in 2002, but was forced to resign on 3 June 2003, amid a teachers' strike over the Ministry's inability to pay teachers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43349921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43349921", "title": "Avi Shlaim", "text": "Avi Shlaim\n\nAvraham (Avi) Shlaim (born 31 October 1945) is an Israeli historian, Emeritus Professor of International Relations at the University of Oxford and fellow of the British Academy. He is one of Israel's New Historians, a group of Israeli scholars who put forward critical interpretations of the history of Zionism and Israel.\n\nShlaim was born to wealthy Jewish parents in Baghdad, Iraq. The family lived in a mansion with ten servants. His father was an importer of building materials with ties to the Iraqi leadership, including then-prime minister Nuri al-Said.\n\nThe Iraqi Jews' situation became problematic with Israel's War of Independence in 1948. In 1951 Shlaim's father was one of 100,000 Jews who registered to leave the country and surrender their citizenship. A subsequent law ruled that all those who left forfeited all rights, including property rights. The Shlaim family lost all their property. His father crossed the border illegally on a mule, while Shlaim, his mother and sisters flew to Cyprus, reuniting in Israel.\n\nShlaim left Israel for England at the age of 16 to study at a Jewish school. He returned to Israel in the mid-1960s to serve in the Israel Defense Forces, then moved back to England in 1966 to read history at Jesus College, Cambridge. He obtained his BA degree in 1969.He obtained an MSc (Econ.) in International Relations in 1970 from the London School of Economics and a PhD from the University of Reading. He was a Lecturer and Reader in politics in the University of Reading from 1970 to 1987.\n\nHe married the great-granddaughter of David Lloyd George, who was the British prime minister at the time of the Balfour Declaration. He has lived in England ever since, and holds dual British and Israeli nationality.\n\nShlaim taught International Relations at Reading University, specialising in European issues. His academic interest in the history of Israel began in 1982, when Israeli government archives about the 1948 Arab–Israeli War were opened, an interest that deepened when he became a fellow of St Antony's College, Oxford in 1987. He was Alastair Buchan Reader in International Relations at Oxford from 1987 to 1996 and Director of Graduate Studies in that subject in 1993–1995 and 1998–2001. In 1995–97, he held a British Academy Research Readership in 1995–97 and a Research Professorship in 2003–2006.\n\nShlaim served as an outside examiner on the doctoral thesis of Ilan Pappé, another notable New Historian. Shlaim's approach to the study of history is informed by his belief that, \"[t]he job of the historian is to judge\".\n\nHe is a regular contributor to \"The Guardian\" newspaper, and signed an open letter to that paper in January 2009 condemning Israel's role in the Gaza War.\n\nWriting in the \"Spectator\", Shlaim dubbed Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu as a \"proponent of the doctrine of permanent conflict,\" describing his policies as an attempt to preclude a peaceful resolution to the conflict with Palestinians. Furthermore, he described Israeli foreign policy as one that supported stability of Arab regimes over nascent democratic movements during the Arab Spring.\n\nShlaim is a member of the UK Labour Party. In August 2015, he was a signatory to a letter criticising \"The Jewish Chronicle\"s reporting of Jeremy Corbyn's association with alleged antisemites.\n\nThe Israeli historians Joseph Heller and Yehoshua Porath have claimed that Shlaim \"misleads his readers with arguments that Israel had missed the opportunity for peace while the Arabs are strictly peace seekers\".\n\nIn a 2012 article in the academic journal \"Shofar\", Shai Afsai criticised Shlaim for repeating a story \"The bride is beautiful but she is married to another man\", for which Afsai could not trace an original source, in his 2001 book \"The Iron Wall: Israel and the Arab World\".\n\nAccording to Yoav Gelber, Shlaim's claim that there was a deliberate and pre-meditated anti-Palestinian “collusion” between the Jewish Agency and King Abdullah, is unequivocally refuted by the documentary evidence on the development of contacts between Israel and Jordan before, during and after the war. Marc Lynch however wrote that \"the voluminous evidence in [Gelber's] book does not allow so conclusive a verdict\".\n\nIn 2006, Shlaim was elected Fellow of the British Academy (FBA), the United Kingdom's national academy for the humanities and social sciences.\n\nOn 27 September 2017, Shlaim was awarded the British Academy Medal \"for lifetime achievement\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48431633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48431633", "title": "Battle of Mong Cai", "text": "Battle of Mong Cai\n\nThe Battle of Mong Cai was fought during the Sino-Vietnamese War between 16 February and 10 March 1979 over the city of Móng Cái and other districts of Quảng Ninh Province that bordered the People's Republic of China. The battle broke out as Chinese People's Liberation Army (PLA) units launched diversionary attacks in support of the Chinese invasion in the major fronts of Lạng Sơn, Cao Bằng and Lào Cai. However, the Chinese failed to attract any Vietnamese reinforcements into the battle.\n\nInitiated earlier than the overall invasion, Chinese operations in Quảng Ninh area began at around 23:00 on 16 February with artillery shelling and an infantry assault against Hoành Mô, Bình Liêu District. On 17 February, the township of Móng Cái and the Xuan Hoa state farm were also subjected to Chinese artillery bombardment. Later on the day, PLA troops contested the six-kilometer perimeter within the vicinity of Móng Cái, as well as positions in Quảng Hà District near Pò Hèn. Attacks against Móng Cái were renewed on 20 and 21 February from assembly positions in Dongxing, Guangxi. Fighting waned until 2 March, when Chinese forces stormed Hill 781 in Bình Liêu District. On 3 March, the PLA struck Hill 1050. Both of the attacks were repulsed at a loss of 750 casualties, according to a Vietnamese report. Chinese artillery continued pounding Vietnamese positions until 10 March in coordination with infantry raids in smaller scales. On 10 March alone, 3,000 shells were fired against Móng Cái and other border points in Quảng Ninh.\n\nAs Quảng Ninh was a place of virtually no strategic importance, Chinese attacks in the province could have proved wrong and wasteful, unless they had been explained as an attempt to distract the Vietnam People's Army from the major offensives. In fact, however, the assaults failed, not only to draw Vietnamese reinforcements to the area, but also to capture or retain any positions from the enemy. The lack of military skills was illustrated by Chinese combat performance in the battle for Cao Ba Lanh, a strategic peak located 9 km from the border crossing at Hoành Mô: a regiment-sized Chinese force, after five hours staging numerous waves of mass formation attacks and the toll of 360 casualties, were eventually able to capture a height defended by a single Vietnamese platoon.\n\nThe defeat in Quảng Ninh Province was clearly perceived by Chinese leadership. Among China's announcements about the war, there was no mention about the fighting in Quảng Ninh.\n"}
{"id": "166342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166342", "title": "Blind Harry", "text": "Blind Harry\n\nBlind Harry ( 1440 – 1492), also known as Harry, Hary or Henry the Minstrel, is renowned as the author of \"The Actes and Deidis of the Illustre and Vallyeant Campioun Schir William Wallace\", more commonly known as \"The Wallace\". This was a lengthy poem recounting the life of William Wallace, the Scottish independence leader, written around 1477, 172 years after Wallace's death.\n\nLittle is known about Blind Harry's life. One source is the Lord High Treasurer's accounts of 1473–1492, which recorded payments to him for performances at the court of James IV. Blind Harry was given gifts of money by the King at New Year, as were other minor courtiers, but a payment on 2 January 1492 seems to relate to the singing of a ballad accompanied by two Gaelic harpers, \"Ersche clareschaw\", mentioned in adjacent entries. This is the last mention of Harry in the accounts.\n\nHe is mentioned by William Dunbar on line 69 of his \"Lament for the Makeris\" early in the 16th century. Historian John Major also wrote about Harry in 1518. These sources differed on whether or not he was blind from birth, but Harry almost certainly seems to have had a military background.\n\nBlind Harry claimed his work was based on a book by Father John Blair, Wallace's boyhood friend and personal chaplain. This book has not been seen in modern times and may never have existed; the poet's attribution of his story to a written text may have been a literary device; many contemporary critics believe that \"Acts and Deeds\" is based on oral history and the national traditions of Blind Harry's homeland.\n\nMost historians nowadays regard \"Acts and Deeds\" as a versified historical novel, written at a time of strong anti-English sentiment in Scotland. At twelve volumes, the work is also doubted to be solely his work. Elspeth King maintained that despite any inaccuracies, Harry's patriotic and nationalistic portrayal was to ensure Wallace's continuing reputation as a hero. Robert Burns acknowledged his debt to Harry, paraphrasing the following lines from Harry's \"Wallace\" in his own poem Robert Bruce's Address to his Army at Bannockburn (Scots, wha hae wi' Wallace bled):\nA false usurper sinks in every foe\nAnd liberty returns with every blow\nwhich Burns described as \"a couplet worthy of Homer\".\n\nHarry's depiction of Wallace has been criticised by Major and others as being fictionalized. Some parts of it are at variance with contemporary sources, \"e.g.\", the work describes Wallace leading an army to the outskirts of London, and it includes some episodes of doubtful accuracy before Wallace enters history with the Action at Lanark. It also describes him adopting the disguises of a monk, an old woman, and a potter while a fugitive, and travelling to France to enlist support for the Scottish cause, there defeating two French champions, as well as a lion. \"Are there any more dogs you would have slain?\", Wallace asks the French king.\n\nHarry is often considered inferior to Barbour as a poet, and has little of his moral elevation, but he surpasses him in graphic power, vividness of description, and variety of incident. He occasionally shows the influence of Chaucer, and is said to have known Latin and French.\n\nBlind Harry's words were made more accessible by a translation written by William Hamilton of Gilbertfield (c. 1665–1751) published in 1722. In this form they met the notice of poets such as Robert Burns, Lord Byron, Robert Southey, John Keats, Joanna Baillie, and William Wordsworth. It was also an important source for Randall Wallace in his writing of the screenplay of \"Braveheart\", the award-winning Hollywood film. Most recently, in 1998, Elspeth King published Hamilton's text amended for modern readers as \"Blind Harry's Wallace\".\n\nBlind Harry mentions a number of battles or skirmishes fought by Wallace which are now regarded by historians as unhistorical. These battles are sometimes referenced as historical events by accounts which do not cross-check the stories in \"Acts and Deeds\" against another source. Dubious battles include the \"Battle of Loudoun Hill\" in 1296, the \"Battle of Biggar\" in 1297, and possibly also the \"Battle of Elcho Park\". In the case of the folkloric Battle of Loudoun Hill, later enthusiasts have erected a monument to Wallace at the site. (The folkloric battle should not be confused with the genuine Battle of Loudoun Hill fought by Robert the Bruce.) Similarly, the story of a mass hanging of Scots nobles at Ayr is described by Blind Harry, and is repeated in a number of places, including the film \"Braveheart\", but is now regarded as unhistorical.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55272035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55272035", "title": "Breve chronicon Lauretanum", "text": "Breve chronicon Lauretanum\n\nThe Breve chronicon Lauretanum (\"Short Chronicle of Loreto\") is a brief anonymous medieval Latin chronicle from the Kingdom of Sicily. It contains short notices on events of the years 1187, 1188, 1190, 1195 and 1220, but is most useful for the continuous narrative it provides for the period 1249–1271. It focuses mainly on events in and connected with the county of Loreto Aprutino. The entire chronicle is short enough to have been first published in a single footnote, but it provides information not found elsewhere about the counts of Loreto and the prince of the Abruzzi, Conrad of Antioch.\n\nIt is known from two manuscripts: one from the fifteenth century in the Biblioteca Nazionale di Napoli, segn. IX, C.24, fol. 52–53, and another, with slight variations, from the seventeenth century and once in the private possession of . In the Napoli manuscript it bears the title \"Chronicon Lauretanum –\", on which the modern editors' title is based. In the seventeenth-century manuscript, it is called, rather grandiosely, the \"Chronica regni Siciliae\" (\"Chronicle of the Kingdom of Sicily\").\n\nIn the year 1249, Count Berard [II], the count of Loreto, was arrested by order of the Lord Emperor [Frederick] and, a false charge taken up, Frederick condemned him, it is said, to a most cruel death.\n\nIn the year of our Lord 1267, in the month of January, the aforesaid lords Conrad and John of Mareri, breaking out of prison, went into hiding, fleeing out of the kingdom, and that same year Conradin pitched his army in Verona, and in the following year.\n"}
{"id": "45682373", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45682373", "title": "Character evolution", "text": "Character evolution\n\nCharacter evolution is the process by which a character or trait (a certain body part or property of an organism) evolves along the branches of an evolutionary tree. Character evolution usually refers to single changes within a lineage that make this lineage unique from others. These changes are called character state changes and they are often used in the study of evolution to provide a record of common ancestry. Character state changes can be phenotypic changes, nucleotide substitutions, or amino acid substitutions. These small changes in a species can be identifying features of when exactly a new lineage diverged from an old one. \nIn the study of phylogenetics or cladistics, researchers can look at the characters shared by a collection of species and then group them into what is called a clade. The term clade was coined in 1957 by the biologist Julian Huxley to refer to the result of cladogenesis, a concept Huxley borrowed from Bernhard Rensch. A clade is by definition monophyletic, meaning it contains one ancestor (which can be an organism, a population, or a species) and all its descendants.\n\nNatural Selection is the process by which organisms that are better adapted to their environment are selected to survive and reproduce more offspring. Natural selection selects for the phenotype or the characteristics of an organism that gives the organism a reproductive advantage in which it becomes the gene pool of a population. In addition, mutations also arise in the genome of an individual organism and offspring(s) can inherit such mutations. This genetic variation allows more organisms to adapt to a changing environment.\n\nIt is often the case in the study of phylogenies that the vast majority of organisms of interest are long extinct. It is therefore a matter of speculation to reconstruct what ancestral organisms existed long before the present time, and how the evolutionary process led from one organism to another, and which present-day organisms are most closely related. Character evolution and the character state changes that drive this type of evolution are what help researchers construct these trees in a fashion referred to as maximum parsimony. When talking about phylogenetics, maximum parsimony refers to a method of inferring a phylogenetic tree in a way that minimizes the number of implied character state transformations in the observed data (hence \"maximally parsimonious\"). The basic ideas were presented by James S. Farris in 1970.\n\nAlthough fairly effective, maximum parsimony (like any method of phylogenetic inference) may not recover the true course of evolution for a given feature. For a number of reasons, two organisms can possess a trait not present in their last common ancestor. The phenomena of convergent evolution, parallel evolution, and evolutionary reversals (collectively termed \"homoplasy\") are evolutionary forces that may disrupt the effectiveness of the maximum parsimony method of inferring phylogenetic relationships. However, Rindal and Brower showed that the vast majority of the time, parsimony and model-based phylogenetic analyses of the same data sets gave results that were not significantly different from one another, implying that if parsimony is producing false hypotheses of relationships due to homoplasy, then the Maximum Likelihood or Bayesian methods are doing so as well.\n\nLamarck is best known for his \"Theory of Inheritance of Acquired Characteristics\" in 1801. His theory states that the characteristics an organism acquires throughout its life in order to adapt to its environment are passed down to its offspring. For example, Lamarck believed that the long necks of giraffes evolved as generations of giraffes reached for ever higher leaves of a tree. Their offspring and later generations inherited the resulting long necks.\n\n"}
{"id": "8258191", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8258191", "title": "Cultural transformation theory", "text": "Cultural transformation theory\n\nCultural transformation theory proposes that societies used to follow a “partnership model” of civilization but over time, it gave way to today’s current “dominator model” of civilization. This theory was first proposed by Riane Eisler, a cultural scholar, in her book “The Chalice and the Blade”. Eisler affirms that societies exist on a partnership-domination continuum but we as a species have moved away from our former partnership orientation to a more domination orientation by uplifting masculine ideals over feminine ideals. She insists that people don’t have to live in a society based on the rule of one gender class over the other. There is historical evidence that another type of society, where all individuals are equal, is possible.\n\nThe partnership model centers on an egalitarian arrangement. A society where each individual is accepted as equal and feminine values are given just as much importance as masculine values. The hierarchy of power in these societies is very fluid and not maintained through abusive means. In contrast, the dominator model relies heavily upon a strict top-down hierarchy which ranks individuals as superior and inferior, with males often seen as superior over females. The rankings are based upon overpowering others and normally determined through violence. Because of the differing ideals, there is a stark difference between the two models and how each society type treats members of each gender. Because a partnership society values equality of all, men and women are treated with the same amount of respect. Duties are divided up fairly between everyone and no one individual’s job is deemed more important than another’s. However, dominator societies tend to devaluate jobs performed by women, especially those that involve a significant level of feminine values such as care and compassion.\n\nEisler proposes that originally, our mainstream culture centered around the partnership model but that following a period of chaos and cultural disruption there occurred a fundamental shift towards the dominator model. The greater availability of archaeological data on ancient civilizations make it possible to document this shift in more detail through the analysis of prehistoric cultural evolution.\n\nEisler distinguished four different dimensions that these societies explicitly differ in: social structure, gender relations, emotional, and value beliefs.\n\nDominator model societies follow a rigid hierarchy system. Certain individuals or groups of individuals are unquestioningly in superior over others. Even daily activities are a power struggle, and often those in power remain in power while those inferior remain inferior. Partnership model societies follow a “hierarchy of actualization”. This means that the wisest person, depending on the situation, is in power. But rather than control the group, they try to empower those who are less experienced so that they may learn as well.\n\nIn dominator model societies, males generally rank above females because they tend to express more masculine values, like conquest and control. Males are typically more power-oriented than females and so are at a biological advantage. To even further divide the two genders, children are also taught at a young age that they are different from each other. When playing, if a girl is too rough she’ll be more likely to get scolded than if she were a boy. Common sayings like “boys will be boys” and “you should be more ladylike” train children that girls are not allowed to do the same things boys can do. The division only becomes more apparent as kids grow up. Even as fully grown adults, women are looked upon negatively in numerous male-dominated positions. The same is for men who work in female-dominated jobs. In a partnership society, there is no dominant gender or sex; males and females work together in all positions. Feminine values like empathy, compassion and acceptance are freely expressed by both genders.\n\nFear is significantly present in dominator model societies; more so from the group considered inferior. Abuse or violent activities can be seen at the domestic, work, and social levels. Individuals tend to intensely avoid showing emotions that could suggest vulnerability and weakness in front of others. In partnership model societies, trust is nurtured between people and sharing one’s emotions is encouraged. Violence is avoided.\n\nAt its core, dominator model societies thrive on a system of domination and control. Power is seen as good and violence is not an offensive method to attaining one’s goal. For one group to get ahead, it’s necessary for another to be put down. On the contrary, partnership model societies thrive on the compassion and mutual respect each individual has for one another. Problems are solved through negotiation as each party tries to come to a solution that’s accommodating for all.\n\nOver the last few millennia, dominator model societies have largely prevailed in human history but this does not mean that partnership model ideals have been completely eradicated. There have been times when the partnership model has resurfaced within society as well. Eisler ascertains that at several levels, these two models exist:\n\nThe pattern of invasion and conquest repeats itself in several prehistoric partnership-oriented societies. The most common is of a dominator-oriented society taking over a partnership society and then transforming its culture to, including but not limited to, its religious values. They introduce their own religion, which often involve gods of war and aggression, and suppress the original society’s religious beliefs. By diminishing the value of the goddesses and other feminine ideals in the myths and religions of partnership societies, it then spread to diminishing the value of feminine ideals in society.\n\nThe Minoan Civilization of Crete\n\nThe last known major civilization to have a partnership society, the Minoan civilization of Crete, flourished during the Bronze Age over 3500 years ago. Having existed even before Archaic Greece, it is one of the earliest known civilizations in Europe and is vital to recreating the timeline of Europe’s history. First discovered by Sir Arthur Evans, numerous artifacts have since been uncovered documenting the way of life of this ancient civilization. The Minoans had constructed enormous courts at four different palace sites which are believed to be centers for trade and other large social, political and religious activities. The Minoans also built religious tombs and cemeteries, staircases and extensive store areas showing a highly sophisticated standard of living most impressive for their time.\nMost of what we know of their culture is from what was found in their myths, writings, pottery and frescoes. From these artifacts, historians have gathered that females played a large role in their society. A female figure known as “The Goddess” appears numerous times in both myths and pottery work, implying that they worshiped her in Minoan religion. The Goddess is a symbol also seen in artifacts of other prehistoric partnership societies (artifacts such as the Venus of Laussel). It is believed that the Goddess was a symbol of life and nature as every depiction of her involved explicit detail of her form and reproductive genitalia. In prehistoric times, many people relied upon farming for the majority of their food so having a good relationship with the earth was very important to the people of this time period. So not only were females, treated as equals in society but they were also worshiped in their religion along with their male deities. In short, females were treated with as much respect and acceptance as their male counterparts were.\n\nAlthough weapon-like tools and armor were found among the artifacts, the lack of battle fortifications found on the Minoan research sites suggests that the civilization was peaceful as a whole. There is very little evidence to suggest that there were ever any major internal disputes within the Minoan civilization, however there are several factors that are said to have influenced its later downfall. One of the most supported is the theory that it was due to outside conquest. Spyridon Marinatos, a Greek archaeologist, theorized that around 1500 B.C.E. a nearby volcano had erupted on the island of Crete, weakening the civilization. It likely did not cause the demise of the civilization but it crippled both its population and its economy making the Minoans vulnerable. Taking advantage of this weakness, the Mycenaeans, a neighboring military civilization, invaded the Minoans. The Minoans were not an aggressive military power but their island isolation made them difficult to be subdued, so the destruction caused by the volcano’s eruption was enough to allow the Mycenaeans to successfully invade.\n\nThe Mycenaeans soon populated the island of Crete, bringing with them their own cultures and traditions. Mycenaean weaponry also began to appear in Minoan burial tombs on Crete as the civilization becomes more militaristic. Just as in Minoan culture, females were still seen as important in religion, but new Gods were introduced as well. A few of these Gods include as Zeus, Poseidon, Hephaestus, Artemis and Dionysus, and can still be found in modern religions. The Goddess of the Minoans still remained present in certain areas, but she was not seen as important as she was to the former Minoan civilization.\n\nDuring the 8th century, the Mycenaean civilization, along with several other civilizations on the Mediterranean, collapsed due to unknown reasons. Many archaeologists speculate a catastrophic environmental disaster caused them to become vulnerable to outside military forces. After this dark age, Greek civilization developed rapidly once again but the Goddess had been completely replaced with the new Gods of the Mycenaean civilization. The male gods ruled over all creation in their myths with female gods playing only supporting roles.\n\n"}
{"id": "24274898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24274898", "title": "Deborah Lavin", "text": "Deborah Lavin\n\nDeborah Margaret Lavin, FRSA (born 22 September 1939) is a South African academic and historian, resident in the United Kingdom for most of her career.\n\nLavin was born on 22 September 1939. She attended Rhodes University, South Africa and Lady Margaret Hall, Oxford, graduating in 1961.\n\nLavin has lectured at the University of Witwatersrand as well as Queen's University Belfast and was a Senior Associate of St Antony's College, Oxford. In 1980 she relocated to Durham where she was co-director of the Research Institute for the Study of Change and a lecturer in the Department of Modern History, as well as Principal of Trevelyan College from 1979–1995. She was President of the Howlands Trust and from 1995 to 1997 was Principal-elect of the new College to be developed at the Howlands Farm, which eventually became Josephine Butler College.\n\n"}
{"id": "22294755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22294755", "title": "Education in the Age of Enlightenment", "text": "Education in the Age of Enlightenment\n\nThe Age of Enlightenment, dominated advanced thought in Europe from about the 1650s to the 1780s. It developed from a number of sources of “new” ideas, such as challenges to the dogma and authority of the Catholic Church and by increasing interest in the ideas of science, in scientific methods. In philosophy, it called into question traditional ways of thinking. The Enlightenment thinkers wanted the educational system to be modernized and play a more central role in the transmission of those ideas and ideals. The development of educational systems in Europe continued throughout the period of the Enlightenment and into the French Revolution. The improvements in the educational systems produced a larger reading public which resulted in increased demand for printed material from readers across a broader span of social classes with a wider range of interests. After 1800, as the Enlightenment gave way to Romanticism, there was less emphasis on reason and challenge to authority and more support for emerging nationalism and compulsory school attendance.\n\nBefore the Enlightenment, European educational systems were principally geared for teaching a limited number of professions, e.g., religious orders such as priests, brothers and sisters, health care workers such as physicians, and bureaucrats such as lawyers and scribes, and they were not yet greatly influenced by the scientific revolution. As the scientific revolution and religious upheaval broke traditional views and ways of thinking of that time, religion and superstition were supplanted by reasoning and scientific facts. Philosophers such as John Locke proposed the idea that knowledge is obtained through sensation and reflection. This proposition led to Locke’s theory that everyone has the same capacity of sensation, and, therefore, education should not be restricted to a certain class or gender. Prior to the 17th and 18th century centuries, education and literacy were generally restricted to males who belonged to the nobility and the mercantile and professional classes. In England and France, “idealized notions of domesticity, which emphasized the importance of preparing girls for motherhood and home duties, fuelled the expansion of schooling for girls.”\n\nJohn Locke in English and Jean Jacques Rousseau in French authored influential works on education. Both emphasised the importance of shaping young minds early. By the late Enlightenment there was a rising demand for a more universal approach to education, particularly after the American and French Revolutions.\n\nEnlightenment children were taught to memorise facts through oral and graphic methods that originated during the Renaissance. The predominant educational psychology from the 1750s onward, especially in northern European countries was associationism; the notion that the mind associates or dissociates ideas through repeated routines. It offered a practical theory of the mind that allowed teachers to transform longstanding forms of print and manuscript culture into effective graphic tools of learning for the lower and middle orders of society.\n\nMany of the leading universities associated with Enlightenment progressive principles were located in northern Europe, with the most renowned being the universities of Leiden, Göttingen, Halle, Montpellier, Uppsala and Edinburgh. These universities, especially Edinburgh, produced professors whose ideas had a significant impact on Britain's North American colonies and, later, the American Republic. Within the natural sciences Edinburgh's medical also led the way in chemistry, anatomy and pharmacology.\n\nHowever, in general the universities and schools of France and most of Europe were bastions of traditionalism and were not hospitable to the Enlightenment. In France the major exception was the medical university at Montpellier.\n\nEducation was once considered a privilege for only the upper class. However, during the 17th and 18th century centuries, “education, literacy and learning” were gradually provided to “rich and poor alike”. The literacy rate in Europe from the 17th century to the 18th century grew significantly. The definition of the term \"literacy\" in the 17th and 18th centuries is different from our current definition of literacy. Historians measured the literacy rate during the 17th and 18th century centuries by people’s ability to sign their names. However, this method of determining literacy did not reflect people’s ability to read. This affected the women’s apparent literacy rate prior to the Age of Enlightenment mainly because while most women living between the Dark Ages and the Age of Enlightenment could not write or sign their names, many could read, at least to some extent.\n\nThe rate of literacy decreased more rapidly in more populated areas and areas where there was mixture of religious schools. The literacy rate in England in the 1640s was around 30 percent for males, rising to 60 percent in the mid-18th century. In France, the rate of literacy in 1686-90 was around 29 percent for men and 14 percent for women, it increased to 48 percent for men and 27 percent for women.\n\nThe increase in literacy rate was more likely due, at least in part to religious influence, since most of the schools and colleges were organized by clergy, missionaries, or other religious organizations. The reason which motivated religions to help to increase the literacy rate among the general public was because the bible was being printed in more languages and literacy was thought to be the key to understanding the word of God. “By 1714 the proportion of women able to read had risen, very approximately, to 25%, and it rose again to 40% by 1750. This increase was part of a general trend, fostered by the Reformation emphasis on reading the scripture and by the demand for literacy in an increasingly mercantile society. The group most affected was the growing professional and commercial class, and writing and arithmetic schools emerged to provide the training their sons required”.\n\nThe Kingdom of Prussia introduced a modern public educational system designed to reach the entire population; it was widely copied across Europe and the United States in the 19th century. The basic foundations of the Prussian primary education system were laid out by Frederick the Great with his \"Generallandschulreglement,\" a decree of 1763, drafted by Johann Julius Hecker. It mandated the schooling of all young Prussians, both girls and boys, to be educated by mainly municipality funded schools from age 5 until age 13 or 14. Prussia was among the first countries in the world to introduce a tax-funded and generally compulsory primary education. In comparison, compulsory schooling in France or Great Britain was not successfully enacted until the 1880s.\n\nThe Prussian system consisted of an eight-year course of primary education, called \"Volksschule\". It provided not only basic technical skills needed in a modernizing world (as reading and writing), but also music (singing), religious (Christian) education in close corporation with the churches and tried to impose a strict ethos of duty, soberness and discipline. Mathematic and calculus were not compulsory in the start and taking such courses was requiring additional payment by parents. Frederick the Great also formalized further educational stages, such as the Realschule and the highest stage, the gymnasium (state funded secondary school), which was used as university-preparatory school. The final examination, \"Abitur\", was introduced in 1788, implemented in all Prussian secondary schools by 1812, and extended to all of Germany in 1871 and is in place till the present. Passing the Abitur was a pre-requisite to entering the learned professions and higher echelons of civil service. Generations of Prussian and as well German teachers, which in the 18th century often had no formal education and in the very beginning often were former petty officers without pedagogic training, tried to gain more academic recognition, training and better pay and played an important role in various protest and reform movements.\n\nThe Prussian system, after its modest beginnings, succeeded in reaching compulsory attendance, specific training for teachers, national testing for all students (of all genders), national curriculum set for each grade and mandatory Kindergarten. In 1810, Prussia introduced state certification requirements for teachers, which significantly raised the standard of teaching.<\n\nIn the 18th century, states were paying more attention to their educational systems because they recognized that their subjects are more useful to the state if they are well educated. The conflicts between the crown and the church helped the expansion of the educational systems. In the eyes of the church and the state, universities and colleges were institutions that existed to maintain the dominance of one over the other. The downside of this conflict was that the freedom of thought on the subjects taught in these institutions was restricted. An educational institution was either a supporter of the monarchy or the religion, never both.\n\nAlso, changes in educational criteria for higher income professions such as lawyers and physicians became stricter, e.g., requirements to have certain educational experience before being licensed, helped to promote increases in the numbers of students attending universities and colleges.\n\nThe explosion of the print culture, which started in the 15th century with Johannes Gutenberg’s printing press, was both a result of and a cause of the increase in literacy. The number of books published in the period of the Enlightenment increased dramatically due to the increase in demand for books, which resulted from the increased literacy rates and the declining cost and easier availability of books made possible by the printing press. There was a shift in the percentages of books printed in various categories during the 17th century.\n\nReligious books had comprised around 50% of all books published in Paris at that time. However, the percentage of religious books dropped to 10% by 1790 and there was an increase in the popularity of books such as almanacs. The scientific literature in French might have increased slightly but mostly it remained fairly constant throughout the 18th century. However, contemporary literature seems to have increased as the century progressed. Also, there was a change in the languages that books were printed in. Before the 18th century, a large percentage of the books were published in Latin. As time progressed, there was a decline in the percentage of books published in Latin. Concurrently, the percentage of books published in French, and other languages, increased throughout Europe.\n\nOf course the importance of print culture to education is not simply about counting publication figures. Students had to use the books that were given to them and they had to use pen and paper to organise and make sense of the information that they were learning. In this sense print culture was closely tied to manuscript culture, particularly the skills and routines associated with note-taking. Perhaps one of the most notable accomplishments of Enlightenment educational systems is that they taught students how to efficiently manage information on paper, both in school and then in university.\n\nDuring the Enlightenment period, there were changes in the public cultural institutions, such as libraries and museums. The system of public libraries was a product of the Enlightenment. The public libraries were funded by the state and were accessible to everyone for free.\n\nPrior to the Enlightenment, libraries in Europe were restricted mostly to academies and the private collections of aristocrats and other wealthy individuals. With the beginning of state funded institutions, public libraries became places where the general public could study topics of interest and educate themselves. During the 18th century, the prices of books were generally too high for the average person, especially the most popular works such as encyclopedias. Therefore, the public libraries offered commoners a chance of reading literature and other works that previously could only be read by the wealthier classes.\n\nDuring the 18th century, the increase in social gathering places such as coffeehouses, clubs, academies and Masonic Lodges provided alternative places where people could read, learn and exchange ideas. In England, coffeehouses became public spaces where political, philosophical and scientific ideas were being discussed. The first coffeehouse in Britain was established in Oxford in 1650 and the number of coffeehouses expanded around Oxford.\n\nThe coffeehouse was a place for people to congregate, to read, to learn and to debate with each other. Another name for the coffeehouse is the Penny University, because the coffeehouse had a reputation as a place of informal learning. “The popularization of new ideas encouraged further changes in the habits and beliefs of many ordinary people. Reading clubs and coffeehouses allowed many urban artisans and businessmen to discuss the latest reform ideas.” Even though the coffeehouses were generally accessible to everyone, most of the coffeehouses did not allow women to participate. Clubs, academies, and Lodges, although not entirely open to the public, established venues of intellectual exchange that functioned as de facto institutions of education.\n\nDuring the 17th century, there were a number of schools dedicated to girls, but the cultural norm was for girls to be informally educated at home. During the 18th century, there was an increase in the number of girls being educated in schools. This was especially true for middle-class families whose rising financial status and social aspirations made providing an aristocratic style of education for their daughters both desirable and possible.\n\nIn France, one of the most famous schools for girls was the Saint-Cyr, which was founded by Madame de Maintenon. Although the school Saint-Cyr was meant to educate women, it did not dare to challenge the traditional views towards women. Therefore, the fact that there were schools for women did not bring about a social change because the schools themselves did not challenge the social status quo. Women were excluded from learning subjects such as science and politics. In October, 1795, France created “a National Institute and Normal Schools that excluded women from the professional study of Philosophy” In d’Épinay’s recollection of her childhood education, she pointed out that girls were not taught much of anything and that a proper education was considered to be inappropriate for the female sex. The main issue about female education relates to the traditional view of women’s weakness being due to nature. However, there were people, such as John Locke and d’Épinay, who argue that women’s weakness was due to faulty education.\n\nCatherine the Great of Russia would become a patron of women's education in her country throughout the 18th century. Heeding to the advice of Ivan Betskoy, an educational reformer and close adviser, the Empress created separate boarding schools for both boys and girls. Her establishment of the Smolny Institute for Noble Girls in 1764 became the first higher learning institute for women in Europe; the following year Catherine would also establish the Novodevichii Institute, an all-female institute for the daughters of Russian commoners. Just as Frederick the Great would oversee the establishment of compulsory education in Prussia, Catherine would contribute to the evolution of women's education on the continent and allow for the further modernization of the Russian state during the Enlightenment.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1883030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1883030", "title": "Epigonation", "text": "Epigonation\n\nThe epigonation (Greek: , literally meaning \"over the knee\"), or palitza (Russian: палица, \"club\"), is a vestment used in some Eastern Christian churches.\n\nIn Eastern Orthodoxy and Eastern Catholic Churches which follow the Byzantine Rite the palitza is worn by all bishops, and as an ecclesiastical award for some priests. Its origin is traced to the practice of Byzantine Emperors awarding ceremonial swords to their military commanders in recognition of their valour in defending the empire. Such swords were often accompanied by elaborate thigh-shields which were suspended from the belt and protected the leg from bruising caused by the constant bumping of the sword against the thigh. When the emperors began to give awards to the clergy, the thigh-shield alone was awarded.\nThe vestment is a stiff, lozenge shaped cloth that hangs on the right side of the body below the waist, suspended by one corner from a strap drawn over the left shoulder. In the Russian tradition it is an award for service; in the Greek tradition it is usually a sign that the priest has an advanced academic degree and a blessing to hear confessions. If a Russian priest has been awarded both the nabedrennik and the \"palitza\", he shifts the former to the left side. It is considered to symbolise the \"sword of the Spirit, which is the Word of God\" (); that is to say, the wearer's defending of the faith by smiting all that is impure and vicious. \n\nUpon donning his palitza, the cleric prays: \"Gird thy sword upon thy thigh, O Mighty One, in thy comeliness and thy beauty; and exert, and fare Thee well, and reign in the name of truth, and of meekness, and of justice; and Thy right hand shall guide Thee wondrously. Now and ever, and unto the ages of ages. Amen\".\n\nThe epigonation's origin is uncertain. According to some authorities it was a decorated \"tablion\" or thigh-shield awarded to officials in the Byzantine Empire, originally military and later civilian. According to others it was originally an ornamental handkerchief, called at that date \"encheirion\", \"hand cloth\", which received its present form and name in the twelfth century. In the former case it has no Western Christian counterpart; in the latter it would correspond to the Western maniple.\n\nIt is also said that it was used to carry documents relating to one's position in the Church. Papers such as those certifying one's ordination and rank would be most relevant when travelling. Carrying them in the Liturgy would be symbolic of bearing one's authority to conduct the Holy things of the Liturgy.\n\nDuring the Mystery (Sacrament) of Ordination, a priest or deacon is taken in procession three times around the Holy Table (altar), after each circuit he bows down before the bishop and kisses his epigonation and his right hand. Also, in some liturgical traditions, when a bishop performs a lesser ordination, such as the setting-apart of a subdeacon, he lays his epigonation over the candidate's head as he says the prayer.\n\nThe \"gonker\" (epigonation) is used exclusively by the two Catholicoi of the Armenian Apostolic Church and is granted occasionally with special authorization to patriarchs. The Catholicos of the Armenian Catholic Church also wears it, although it does not appear to be exclusive to him. The recently ordained archbishop for the Armenian Catholic Archeparchy of Constantinople wore a gonker at his ordination.\n\nAn image of Saint Blaise of Sebaste in the Armenian Catholic parish of San Nicola da Tolentino in Rome depicts the saint wearing a gonker.\n\n"}
{"id": "56378173", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56378173", "title": "Esther Eidinow", "text": "Esther Eidinow\n\nEsther Eidinow is a British ancient historian and academic. She specialises in ancient Greece, particularly ancient Greek religion and magic.\n\nEidinow wrote her DPhil thesis \"Exploring risk among the ancient Greeks: prolegomena and two case studies\" at the University of Oxford under the supervision of Robert Parker in 2003. It was published as \"Oracles, Curses and Risk Among the Ancient Greeks\" in 2007, and praised for its 'analytic rigor' and accessibility. From 2011 to 2012, Eidinow was a Solmsen Fellow at the Institute for Research in the Humanities of the University of Wisconsin–Madison. For the Spring Semester of the 2017/2018 academic year, she is a visiting fellow at the Davis Center for Historical Studies of Princeton University.\n\nSince 2017, she has held the Chair in Ancient History at the University of Bristol. She was previously a lecturer at Newman University College and at the University of Nottingham. She was awarded a Philip Leverhulme Prize in 2015: the citation described her as \"an original and powerful new voice in the field of ancient Greek history\". \n\n"}
{"id": "37069888", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37069888", "title": "Feng Guifen", "text": "Feng Guifen\n\nFeng Guifen (; 1809 – May 28, 1874, courtesy name Linyi (), art name Jingting (), later art name Dengweishanren (), jinshi degree 1840) was a scholar during the Qing Dynasty that was a strong contributor to the philosophy of the Self-Strengthening Movement undertaken in the late 19th century. Born to a family of wealthy Suzhou landowners, during the Taiping Rebellion, Feng organized a local militia to fight the rebels. Feng later served as a compiler in Beijing's Hanlin Academy before finally serving as a private secretary to the Viceroy of Liangjiang, Li Hongzhang.\n\nIn his capacity, Feng argued for self-strengthening and industrialization by borrowing western technology and military systems, while retaining core Neo-Confucian principles. In his essay, \"On The Manufacture of Foreign Weapons\", he was famously quoted as saying: \"what we have to learn from the barbarians is only the one thing - solid ships and effective guns\", though in reality his proposals were a little more extensive. Although many of his reforms were never fully enacted, they were circulated for later generations of political reformers. They contributed to the Hundred Days Reform of 1898.\n"}
{"id": "40652304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40652304", "title": "Francesco Boldizzoni", "text": "Francesco Boldizzoni\n\nFrancesco Boldizzoni (born in 1979) is an Italian academic and historian. He is a research professor of economic history at the University of Turin and a member of Clare Hall, Cambridge.\n\nBoldizzoni is primarily a historian of capitalism. He has developed an intellectual framework that emphasizes the relevance of the history of ideas and concepts to the understanding of the modern economy. He has advocated an anti-positivist approach to social science history, which draws on historicism, post-structuralism, cultural interpretation, and critical theory. He is currently best known for his critique of neoliberal economic history, \"The Poverty of Clio\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46958454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46958454", "title": "Giuseppe Casarrubea", "text": "Giuseppe Casarrubea\n\nGiuseppe Casarrubea (4 March 1946 – 7 June 2015) was an Italian historian and author.\n\nBorn in Partinico, Casarrubea was headmaster of the high school GB Grassi Privitera in his hometown. The son of one of the victims of Salvatore Giuliano, from the late 1970s he devoted himself to historical research on Giuliano and on the links between Sicilian banditry and politics, publishing several books about the issue. His book \"Portella della Ginestra. Microstoria di una strage di Stato\" (translated: \"Portella della Ginestra. Micro-history of a massacre by the State\") caused quite a stir resulting in legal proceedings, at the end of which he was eventually acquitted of all charges. His works also include essays of educational sociology and historical works mainly focusing on Sicily.\n\n"}
{"id": "10893142", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10893142", "title": "Harappan architecture", "text": "Harappan architecture\n\nHarappan architecture is the architecture of the Harappans, an ancient people who lived in the Indus Valley from about 3300 BCE to 1300 BCE. The Harappans were advanced for their time, especially in architecture.Harappa can be located in Punjab Pakistan, sitting roughly 150 km (93 miles) away from the Indus River. Historically it was common for cities in this area to be gateway cities for the inner cities.\n\nSites built by the Harappan would be raised, or built on man made hills. This could be to combat flooding in the nearby areas. Another aspect of Harappan architecture is they often built walls around their entire cities. This could have served several different needs. Many believe that the walls were built as defensive structures, where “Large and impressive construction works can be used to intimidate potential attackers (Trigger 1990),” . It was also an obvious feature to show the city was strong and powerful by being able to divert resources and labor to make such a large structure and not focus all of their energy on survival. This was not the only purpose for the wall, it is thought that the wall also served as protection from floods. There is also evidence of a tapering at the bottom of the wall to guide the water away from the city. The city could be split into 2 different categories. There is an upper “acropolis” and a “lower town”. The lower town consisted of lower valued residential building located on the eastern side of the city, while the upper acropolis would be on the western side of the city which contained of the higher value buildings and public buildings. The acropolis was a “parallelogram that was 400-500 yards north-south and 200-300 yards east-west” It was also thought that the acropolis area would be built on the highest part of the mound in the city showing the importance and status of the area was much higher than the rest of the area. Another feature which suggests the acropolis is of higher importance is that the fortifications around the area where bigger and stronger than those around the rest of the city.\n\nThe materials of houses depended on the location of the building. If the house was more rural the bricks would be mud. If the building was in an urban area then the bricks would be baked. The bricks were made in ratios of 1x2x4. “Houses range from 1-2 stories in height, with a central courtyard around which the rooms are arranged”\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1472614", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1472614", "title": "Hellanicus of Lesbos", "text": "Hellanicus of Lesbos\n\nHellanicus (or Hellanikos) of Lesbos (Greek: , \"Ἑllánikos ὁ Lésvios\"), also called Hellanicus of Mytilene (Greek: , \"Ἑllánikos ὁ Mutilēnaῖos\") was an ancient Greek logographer who flourished during the latter half of the 5th century BC. He was born in Mytilene on the isle of Lesbos in 490 BC and is reputed to have lived to the age of 85. According to the \"Suda\", he lived for some time at the court of one of the kings of Macedon, and died at Perperene, a city in Aeolis on the plateau of Kozak near Pergamon, opposite Lesbos . He was one of the most prolific of early historians. His many works, though now lost, were very influential. He was cited by a number of other authors, who thereby preserved many fragments of his works, the most recent collection of which is by José J. Caerols Pérez, who includes a biography of Hellanicus. \nHellanicus authored works of chronology, geography, and history, particularly concerning Attica, in which he made a distinction between what he saw as Greek mythology from history. His influence on the historiography of Athens was considerable, lasting until the time of Eratosthenes (3rd century BC).\n\nHe transcended the narrow local limits of the older logographers, and was not content to merely repeat the traditions that had gained general acceptance through the poets. He tried to record the traditions as they were locally current, and availed himself of the few national or priestly registers that presented something like contemporary registration.\n\nHe endeavoured to lay the foundations of a scientific chronology, based primarily on the list of the Argive priestesses of Hera, and secondarily on genealogies, lists of magistrates (e.g. the archons at Athens), and Oriental dates, in place of the old reckoning by generations. But his materials were insufficient and he often had to seek recourse to the older methods.\n\nSome thirty works are attributed to him, chronological, historical and episodical. They include:\n\nHis work includes the first mention of the legendary founding of Rome by the Trojans; he writes that the city was founded by Aeneas when accompanying Odysseus on his travels through Latium. He also supported the idea that an incoming group of Pelasgians lay behind the origins of the Etruscans. The latter idea, from \"Phoronis\", influenced Dionysius of Halicarnassus, who cites him [I.28] as a source.\n\n"}
{"id": "331075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331075", "title": "Henry Irving", "text": "Henry Irving\n\nSir Henry Irving (6 February 1838 – 13 October 1905), born John Henry Brodribb, sometimes known as J. H. Irving, was an English stage actor in the Victorian era, known as an actor-manager because he took complete responsibility (supervision of sets, lighting, direction, casting, as well as playing the leading roles) for season after season at the Lyceum Theatre, establishing himself and his company as representative of English classical theatre. In 1895 he became the first actor to be awarded a knighthood, indicating full acceptance into the higher circles of British society.\n\nIrving is widely acknowledged to be one of the inspirations for Count Dracula, the title character of the 1897 novel \"Dracula\"\nwhose author, Bram Stoker, was business manager of the theatre.\n\nIrving was born to a working-class family in Keinton Mandeville in the county of Somerset. W.H. Davies, the celebrated poet, was a cousin. Irving spent his childhood living with his aunt, Mrs Penberthy, at Halsetown in Cornwall. He competed in a recitation contest at a local Methodist chapel where he was bested by William Curnow, later the editor of \"The Sydney Morning Herald\". He attended City Commercial School for two years before going to work in the office of a law firm at age 13. When he saw Samuel Phelps play Hamlet soon after this, he sought lessons, letters of introduction, and work in a theatre in Sunderland in 1856, labouring against great odds until his 1871 success in \"The Bells\" in London set him apart from all the rest.\n\nHe married Florence O'Callaghan on 15 July 1869 at St. Marylebone, London, but his personal life took second place to his professional life. On opening night of \"The Bells\", 25 November 1871, Florence, who was pregnant with their second child, criticised his profession: \"Are you going on making a fool of yourself like this all your life?\" Irving exited their carriage at Hyde Park Corner, walked off into the night, and chose never to see her again. He maintained a discreet distance from his children as well, but became closer to them as they grew older. Florence Irving never divorced Irving, and once he had been knighted she styled herself \"Lady Irving\"; Irving never remarried.\nHis elder son, Harry Brodribb Irving (1870–1919), usually known as \"H B Irving\", became a famous actor and later a theatre manager. His younger son, Laurence Irving (1871–1914), became a dramatist and later drowned, with his wife, in the sinking of the \"Empress of Ireland\". H B married Dorothea Baird and they had a son, Laurence Irving (1897–1988), who became a well-known Hollywood art director and his grandfather's biographer.\n\nIn November 1882 Irving became a Freemason, being initiated into the prestigious Jerusalem Lodge No 197 in London. In 1887 he became a founder member and first Treasurer of the Savage Club Lodge No 2190, a Lodge associated with London's Savage Club.\n\nHe eventually took over the management of the Lyceum Theatre and brought actress Ellen Terry into partnership with him as Ophelia to his Hamlet, Lady Macbeth to his Macbeth, Portia to his Shylock, Beatrice to his Benedick, etc. Before joining the Lyceum, Terry had fled her first marriage and conceived two out-of-wedlock children with bohemian artist Godwin, but regardless of how much and how often her behavior defied the strict morality expected by her Victorian audiences, she somehow remained popular. It could be said that Irving found his family in his professional company, which included his ardent supporter and manager Bram Stoker and Terry's two illegitimate children, Teddy and Edy.\n\nWhether Irving's long, spectacularly successful relationship with leading lady Ellen Terry was romantic as well as professional has been the subject of much historical speculation. Most of their correspondence was lost or burned by her descendants. According to Michael Holroyd's book about Irving and Terry, \"A Strange Eventful History\":\n\nTerry's son Teddy, later known as Edward Gordon Craig, spent much of his childhood (from 1879, when he was 8, until 1897) indulged by Irving backstage at the Lyceum. Craig, who came to be regarded as something of a visionary for the theatre of the future, wrote an especially vivid, book-length tribute to Irving. (\"Let me state at once, in clearest unmistakable terms, that I have never known of, or seen, or heard, a greater actor than was Irving.\") George Bernard Shaw, at the time a theatre critic who was jealous of Irving's connection to Ellen Terry (whom Shaw himself wanted in his own plays), conceded Irving's genius after Irving died.\n\nAfter a few years' schooling while living at Halsetown, near St Ives, Cornwall, Irving became a clerk to a firm of East India merchants in London, but he soon gave up a commercial career for acting. On 29 September 1856 he made his first appearance at Sunderland as Gaston, Duke of Orleans, in Bulwer Lytton's play, \"Richelieu\", billed as Henry Irving. This name he eventually assumed by royal licence. When the inexperienced Irving got stage fright and was hissed off the stage the actor Samuel Johnson was among those who supported him with practical advice. Later in life Irving gave them all regular work when he formed his own Company at the Lyceum Theatre.\n\nFor 10 years, he went through an arduous training in various stock companies in Scotland and the north of England, taking more than 500 parts.\n\nHe gained recognition by degrees, and in 1866 Ruth Herbert engaged him as her leading man and sometime stage director at the St. James's Theatre, London, where she first played Doricourt in \"The Belle's Stratagem\". One piece that he directed there was W. S. Gilbert's first successful solo play, \"Dulcamara, or the Little Duck and the Great Quack\" (1866) The next year he joined the company of the newly opened Queen's Theatre, where he acted with Charles Wyndham, J. L. Toole, Lionel Brough, John Clayton, Mr. and Mrs. Alfred Wigan, Ellen Terry and Nellie Farren. This was followed by short engagements at the Haymarket Theatre, Drury Lane, and the Gaiety Theatre. Finally he made his first conspicuous success as Digby Grant in James Albery's \"Two Roses\", which was produced at the Vaudeville Theatre on 4 June 1870 and ran for a very successful 300 nights.\n\nIn 1871, Irving began his association with the Lyceum Theatre by an engagement under Bateman's management. The fortunes of the house were at a low ebb when the tide was turned by Irving's sudden success as Mathias in \"The Bells,\" a version of Erckmann-Chatrian's \"Le Juif polonais\" by Leopold Lewis, a property which Irving had found for himself. The play ran for 150 nights, established Irving at the forefront of the British drama, and would prove a popular vehicle for Irving for the rest of his professional life. With Bateman, Irving was seen in W. G. Wills' \"Charles I\" and \"Eugene Aram\", in \"Richelieu\", and in 1874 in \"Hamlet\". The unconventionality of this last performance, during a run of 200 nights, aroused keen discussion and singled him out as the most interesting English actor of his day. In 1875, again with Bateman, he was seen as the title character in \"Macbeth\"; in 1876 as Othello, and as Philip in Alfred Lord Tennyson's \"Queen Mary\"; in 1877 in \"Richard III\"; and in The Lyons \"Mail\". During this time he became lifelong friends with Bram Stoker, who praised him in his review of \"Hamlet\" and thereafter joined Irving as the manager for the company.\n\nIn 1878, Irving entered into a partnership with actress Ellen Terry and re-opened the Lyceum under his own management. With Terry as Ophelia and Portia, he revived \"Hamlet\" and produced \"The Merchant of Venice\" (1879). His Shylock was as much discussed as his Hamlet had been, the dignity with which he invested the vengeful Jewish merchant marking a departure from the traditional interpretation of the role.\nAfter the production of Tennyson's \"The Cup\" and revivals of \"Othello\" (in which Irving played Iago to Edwin Booth's title character) and \"Romeo and Juliet\", there began a period at the Lyceum which had a potent effect on the English stage.\n\n\"Much Ado about Nothing\" (1882) was followed by \"Twelfth Night\" (1884); an adaptation of Goldsmith's \"Vicar of Wakefield\" by W. G. Wills (1885); \"Faust\" (1886); \"Macbeth\" (1888, with incidental music by Arthur Sullivan); \"The Dead Heart\", by Watts Phillips (1889); \"Ravenswood\" by Herman, and Merivales' dramatic version of Scott's \"Bride of Lammermoor\" (1890). Portrayals in 1892 of the characters of Wolsey in \"Henry VIII\" and of the title character in \"King Lear\" were followed in 1893 by a performance of Becket in Tennyson's play of the same name. During these years, too, Irving, with the whole Lyceum company, paid several successful visits to the United States and Canada, which were repeated in succeeding years. As Terry aged, there seemed to be fewer opportunities for her in his company; that was one reason she eventually left, moving on into less steady but nonetheless beloved stage work, including solo performances of Shakespeare's women.\n\nFrom 1878, Bram Stoker worked for Irving as a business manager at the Lyceum. Stoker idolised Irving to the point that \"As one contemporary remarked, 'To Bram, Irving is as a god, and can do no wrong.' In the considered judgment of one biographer, Stoker's friendship with Irving was 'the most important love relationship of his adult life.'\" Irving, however, \"… was a self-absorbed and profoundly manipulative man. He enjoyed cultivating rivalries between his followers, and to remain in his circle required constant, careful courting of his notoriously fickle affections.\" When Stoker began writing \"Dracula\", Irving was the chief inspiration for the title character. In his 2002 paper for \"The American Historical Review\", \"Buffalo Bill Meets Dracula: William F. Cody, Bram Stoker, and the Frontiers of Racial Decay\", historian Louis S. Warren writes:\n\nThe chief remaining novelties at the Lyceum during Irving's term as sole manager (at the beginning of 1899 the theatre passed into the hands of a limited-liability company) were Arthur Conan Doyle's \"Waterloo\" (1894); J. Comyns Carr's \"King Arthur\" in 1895; \"Cymbeline\", in which Irving played Iachimo, in 1896; Sardou's \"Madame Sans-Gene\" in 1897; and \"Peter the Great\", a play by Laurence Irving, the actor's second son, in 1898.\n\nIrving received a death threat in 1899 from fellow actor (and murderer of William Terriss) Richard Prince. Terriss had been stabbed at the stage door of the Adelphi Theatre in December 1897 and in the wake of his death, Prince was committed to Broadmoor Criminal Lunatic Asylum. Irving was critical of the unusually lenient sentence, remarking 'Terriss was an actor, so his murderer will not be executed.' Two years later, Prince had found Irving's home address and threatened to murder him 'when he gets out'. Irving was advised to submit the letter to the Home Office to ensure Prince's continued incarceration, which Irving declined to do.\nIn 1898 Irving was Rede Lecturer at the University of Cambridge. The new regime at the Lyceum was signalled by the production of Sardou's \"Robespierre\" in 1899, in which Irving reappeared after a serious illness, and in 1901 by an elaborate revival of \"Coriolanus\". Irving's only subsequent production in London was as Sardou's \"Dante\" (1903) at the Drury Lane.\n\nOn 13 October 1905, at 67 years old, Irving was taking part in a performance while on tour in Bradford, when he suffered a stroke. He was taken to the lobby of the Midland Hotel, Bradford, where he died shortly afterwards. His death was described by Thomas Anstey Guthrie in his 'Long Retrospect':\n\nThe chair that he was sitting in when he died is now at the Garrick Club. He was cremated and his ashes buried in Westminster Abbey, thereby becoming the first person ever to be cremated prior to interment at Westminster.\n\nThere is a statue of him near the National Portrait Gallery in London. That statue, as well as the influence of Irving himself, plays an important part in the Robertson Davies novel \"World of Wonders\". The Irving Memorial Garden was opened on 19 July 1951 by Laurence Olivier.\n\nBoth on and off the stage, Irving always maintained a high ideal of his profession, and in 1895 he received a knighthood (first offered in 1883), the first ever accorded an actor. He was also the recipient of honorary degrees from the universities of Dublin (LL.D 1892), Cambridge (Litt.D 1898), and Glasgow (LL.D 1899). He also received the Komthur Cross, 2nd class, of the Saxe-Ernestine House Order of Saxe-Coburg-Gotha and Saxe-Meiningen.\n\nHis acting divided critics; opinions differed as to the extent to which his mannerisms of voice and deportment interfered with or assisted the expression of his ideas.\nIrving's idiosyncratic style of acting and its effect on amateur players was mildly satirised in \"The Diary of a Nobody\". Mr Pooter's son brings Mr Burwin-Fosselton of the Holloway Comedians to supper, a young man who entirely monopolised the conversation, and:\n\n\"...who not only looked rather like Mr Irving but seemed to imagine he \"was\" the celebrated actor... he began doing the Irving business all through supper. He sank so low down in his chair that his chin was almost on a level with the table, and twice he kicked Carrie under the table, upset his wine, and flashed a knife uncomfortably near Gowing's face.\"\n\nIn the musical comedy \"Half a Sixpence\" the actor Chitterlow does an impression of Irving in \"The Bells\".\n\nPercy French's burlesque heroic poem \"Abdul Abulbul Amir\" lists among the mock-heroic attributes of Abdul's adversary, the Russian Count Ivan Skavinsky Skavar, that \"he could imitate Irving\".\n\nIn the film \"A Midwinter's Tale\" by Kenneth Branagh, two actors discuss Irving, and one of them, Richard Briers does an imitation of his speech.\n\nIn the play \"The Woman in Black\", set in the Victorian era, the Actor playing Kipps tells Kipps 'We'll make an Irving of you yet,' in Act 1, as Kipps is not a very good actor due to his inexperience.\nIn 1906 Bram Stoker published a two-volume biography about Irving called \"Personal Reminiscences of Henry Irving\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14238643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14238643", "title": "Igrar Aliyev", "text": "Igrar Aliyev\n\nIgrar Habib oglu Aliyev () (14 March 1924, Baku – 11 June 2004, Baku) was a Soviet and Azerbaijani historian. Aliyev was the author of 160 peer reviewed journal publications and books. Many of his books are devoted to the Medes and Median Empire. Among his writings are: \"The History Of Media\"(Baku, 1960), \"A Historical Survey of Atropatena\" (Baku, 1989), \"History of Azerbaijan (Baku, 1993, and in Russian, 1995). \"Nagorno Karabakh: History, Facts and Events\", No. 22-34 (Baku: Elm, 1982), \"On Problems Related to the Ethnic History of the Azerbaijani People\" (Baku: Nurlan, 2002), \"The History of Aturpatakan\" (also translated into Persian, published in Iran in 1999).\n\nAliyev was a director of the Institute of History of the National Academy of Sciences of Azerbaijan. He followed the methodology of the world-famous Soviet academician V. V. Struve, who was a leading specialist in the field of ancient Oriental studies. Aliyev knew ancient dead languages including Sumerian, Akkadian and Old Persian. His works specialized in ancient Media, Atropatena and Caucasian Albania and are cited by Western experts in the relevant fields.\n\nA number of Aliyev's assertions in his works are highly controversial, particularly in the area relating to the history of Artsakh and Caucasian Albania. Like many other Azerbaijani historians, Aliyev contends that the Christian Armenians of Artsakh systematically erased and appropriated the Caucasian Albanians' culture as their own:\n\nThis argument, however, lacks support outside of Azerbaijan. A pamphlet written in 1997 on architecture in Artsakh by Aliyev and Kamil Mamedzade, the two authors also asserted that the celebrated thirteenth century Gandzasar monastery, built by the Armenian prince Hasan-Jalal Dawla, was built by Caucasian Albanians. The pamphlet, which refers to the Armenians of Karabakh as \"so-called Armenians\" because of their alleged descent from the purported Albanian population of the region and which others have pointed out fails properly to show readers the medieval Armenian inscriptions of the monastery, goes on to claim:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43805469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43805469", "title": "John Ashdown-Hill", "text": "John Ashdown-Hill\n\nLouis John Frederick Ashdown-Hill MBE FSA (5 April 1949 – 18 May 2018), commonly known as John Ashdown-Hill, was an independent historian and author of books on late medieval English history with a focus on the House of York and Richard III of England. Ashdown-Hill died on 18 May 2018 of motor neurone disease.\n\n\nAshdown-Hill taught languages including English, French, Spanish, Italian and modern Greek and also Classical civilisation in the UK, in Tunisia, in Spain and in Turkey, but eventually gave up teaching to focus on his historical research.\n\nIn 2003 Ashdown-Hill was asked by colleagues in Belgium to seek the mitochondrial DNA sequence shared by Richard III of England and his brothers and sisters as one of them, Margaret of York, had died and was buried in what is now Belgium. He spent a year tracing an all-female line of descent from Richard III’s eldest sister, Anne, to Joy Ibsen, a woman living in Canada. In 2005 he announced the discovery of the Mitochondrial DNA sequence of Richard III and his siblings, and in 2006 he gave a presentation on the subject of his DNA research to the Richard III Society in London, in the presence of Prince Richard, Duke of Gloucester.\n\nIn 2004 Ashdown-Hill was commissioned by the BBC to research a story that Richard III’s remains had been thrown into the River Soar. He concluded that the story was untrue.\n\nIn 2009 Philippa Langley invited Ashdown-Hill to lead a study day for the Scottish Branch of the Richard III Society, as a result of which the \"Looking for Richard\" project was formally founded at the Crammond Inn, Edinburgh.\n\nIn August 2012, after three years of work persuading the authorities in Leicester, the search for the lost remains of Richard III began with the excavation of the Social Services Department car park. On the first day of the dig (25 August 2012) bones which proved to be those of Richard III were found in the area predicted by Ashdown-Hill and Langley. Subsequent DNA research proved that the mtDNA of the bones matched the sequence from Richard III's descendants that Ashdown-Hill had discovered in 2004.\n\nOn 5 September 2012, Ashdown-Hill had the honour of carrying the remains from the car park. He covered the box of bones with his modern copy of the House of Plantagenet Royal Standard.\n\nIn May 2014 Ashdown-Hill’s key role in the finding of Richard III’s remains was formally acknowledged by Lady Justice Hallett and her colleagues in the High Court Judgement regarding the reburial of the king’s remains.\n\nAshdown-Hill was awarded an MBE in the 2015 Queen's Birthday Honours for \"services to historical research and the exhumation and identification of Richard III\".\n\nAshdown-Hill died 18 May 2018 of motor neurone disease.\n\nJohn Ashdown-Hill also carried out innovative research on the Plantagenet Y-chromosome, and on the mtDNA sequence of the Princes in the Tower.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2107601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2107601", "title": "John Van Seters", "text": "John Van Seters\n\nJohn Van Seters (born Hamilton, Ontario, Canada, 2 May 1935) is a scholar of the Hebrew Bible (Old Testament) and the Ancient Near East. Currently University Distinguished Professor Emeritus at the University of North Carolina, he was formerly James A. Gray Professor of Biblical Literature at UNC. He took his PhD at Yale University in Near Eastern Studies (1965) and a ThD h.c. from the University of Lausanne (1999). His honours and awards include a Guggenheim Fellowship, an NEH fellowship, an ACLS Fellowship, and research fellowships at Oxford, Cambridge, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven, and National Research Foundation of South Africa. His many publications include \"The Hyksos, A New Investigation\" (1966); \"Abraham in History and Tradition\" (1975); \"In Search of History\" (1983, for which he won the James H. Breasted Prize and the American Academy of Religion book award); \"The Edited Bible\" (2006); and \"The Biblical Saga of King David\" (2009).\n\nVan Seters did his undergraduate degree in Near Eastern Studies at the University of Toronto (honors B.A., 1958) and his graduate studies in Near Eastern Studies at Yale University (M.A., 1959; Ph.D,1965). He also received a theology degree from Princeton Theological Seminary (B.D., 1962).\n\nVan Seters’s first academic appointment was at Waterloo Lutheran University (now Wilfrid Laurier University), Waterloo, ON, Canada, as assistant professor in the Department of Near Eastern Studies (1965–67). He then accepted a position at Andover Newton Theological School (Newton, MA) as associate professor of Old Testament, 1967-70. From there he returned to his alma mater in the Department of Near Eastern Studies at the University of Toronto, 1970-77. In 1977 he accepted the position as James A. Gray Professor of Biblical Literature in the Department of Religious Studies at the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill (1977–2000). He retired in 2000 as Distinguished University Professor of Humanities (emeritus) and returned to Canada where he resides in Waterloo, Ontario.\n\nVan Seters’s doctoral dissertation was on the problem of the Hyksos (Yale, 1965), and published as \"\" (1966). It challenged the consensus view about these foreign rulers of Egypt in the mid-second millennium BCE on a number of points. On the matter of their origins, they were not Hurrians from northern Syria and Anatolia, they did not invade Egypt with chariots and horses and their capital city of Avaris was not to be located in the vicinity of Tanis. Instead, these foreigners came from southern Palestine, migrating into the eastern Delta during a period of political decentralization in the Second Intermediate period and eventually established the capital of their kingdom, Avaris, at Tell ed-Dab‘a. All of this was later confirmed by archaeological excavations at Tell ed-Dab‘a and at Tell el-Maskhuta in the Wadi Tumilat, one of the overland routes of entry into Egypt from Asia.\n\nVan Seters' \"\"Abraham in History and Tradition\"\" (1975) argues that no convincing evidence exists to support the historical existence of Abraham and the other Biblical Patriarchs or the historical reliability of their origins in Mesopotamia and their exploits and travels as depicted in the book of book of Genesis. This book attempts to undermine both the Biblical archaeology school of William F. Albright, who had argued over the previous fifty years that the archaeological record confirmed the essential truth of the history contained in Genesis, and the \"tradition history\" school of Albrecht Alt and Martin Noth, which argued that Genesis contained a core of valid social pre-history of the Israelites passed down through oral tradition prior to the composition of the written book itself.\n\nIn the second part of the book, Van Seters went on to put forward his own theory on the origins of the Pentateuch (the first five books of the bible:Genesis, Exodus, Leviticus, Numbers, Deuteronomy), arguing, with Martin Noth, that Deuteronomy was the original beginning of a history that extended from Deuteronomy to the end of 2 Kings. However, against Noth and others, he held that the so-called Yahwist, the oldest literary source in Genesis, Exodus and Numbers, was written in the 6th century BCE as a prologue to the older Deuteronomistic History, and that the so-called Priestly Writer of the Pentateuch was a later supplement to this history. This approach represented a revival of the \"supplementary hypothesis\" of a previous era of Pentateuchal studies. This literary hypothesis was expanded and defended in several of Van Seters’ later works. Along with similar revisionist works by Hans Heinrich Schmid of Zurich and Rolf Rendtorff of Heidelberg, published in 1976 and 1977, this led to a major reevaluation in Pentateuchal criticism.\n\nVan Seters next undertook a major comparative study of ancient historiography, \"In Search of History: Historiography in the Ancient World and the Origins of Biblical History\" (1983), which was recognized by the awards of James H. Breasted Prize of the American Historical Association, (1985), and the American Academy of Religion Book Award in Historical Studies (1986). The book made a comparative study of early Greek historiography down to the time of Herodotus, and various genres of Mesopotamian, Hittite, Egyptian and Levantine historiography as background for understanding the rise of historiography in ancient Israel. Special attention was given to a critical literary analysis of the so-called Deuteronomistic history from Joshua to 2 Kings.\nVan Seters combined his strong interest in historiography with his revisionist work in Pentateuchal criticism in a detailed study of the Yahwist as an \"antiquarian\" historian writing about Israel’s origins under the influence of Babylonian civilization while in exile in Babylonia during the 6th century BCE. This study is reflected in \"Prologue to History: The Yahwist as Historian in Genesis\" (1992) and \"The Life of Moses: The Yahwist as Historian in Exodus-Numbers\" (1994). \nMost student handbooks on Pentateuchal studies are committed to a particular methodological approach or school of thought and largely ignore alternative theories of the Bible’s compositional history. Van Seters’ introduction, \"The Pentateuch: A Social-Science Commentary\" (1999) attempts to summarize the complex state of Pentateuchal research at the end of the 20th century and to locate his own method of Pentateuchal criticism, which is socio-historical and literary, within this scholarly context. \nA dating of the Yahwistic source in the Pentateuch as later than Deuteronomy also has serious implications for the history of law in the Pentateuch, because it means dating the so-called Covenant Code of Exodus 21-23 later than Deuteronomy instead of earlier and suggests a major revision in the development of Hebrew law. Van Seters attempts just such a reevaluation of legal history among the biblical codes in \"A Law Book for the Diaspora: Revision in the Study of the Covenant Code\"(2003). \nOne of the foundational concepts in the literary criticism of the Hebrew Bible in general and the Pentateuch in particular is the notion that the various literary components, whether small or large, were put together by redactors or editors rather than authors in the modern sense. Furthermore, this editorial process is thought to have continued until the whole biblical corpus reached a definitive \"canonical\" form in the early Roman period. Van Seters, in \"The Edited Bible: The Curious History of the \"Editor\" in Biblical Criticism\" (2006), in his most radical work to date, seeks to completely demolish any such notion of ancient editors, which was introduced into classical and biblical studies in the late 18th century. The study traces the long history of the use of \"redactors\" in higher and lower criticism in both classical and biblical scholarship, and he concludes that scholarly editors responsible for the reproduction of classical and biblical texts only arose in the 16th century. Such editors are completely anachronistic when applied to ancient literature. \nSome regard part of the David story as the pinnacle of ancient Israelite historiography and a product of the Solomonic \"enlightenment.\" As such it is considered indispensable for understanding the history of the Davidic-Solomonic period. Van Seters, in \"The Biblical Saga of King David\" (2009), has attempted to show that the David story does not reflect the conditions of a rather small settlement in Jerusalem in the 10th century, as revealed by many years of archaeological excavation.\n\nBiographic profile in Marquis, Who's Who in America and Who’s Who in the World.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58555870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58555870", "title": "Kitadai Site", "text": "Kitadai Site\n\nThe Kitadai site is located approximately 3 kilometers northwest of Toyama Station and Toyama Castle. The settlement measured approximately 200 meters from north-south and 280 meters from east-west, and the foundations of four elevated buildings (possibly storehouses or ceremonial buildings) and more than 70 pit dwellings were discovered, making it one of the largest Jōmon settlements thus discovered in the Hokuriku region of Japan. The site is now an archaeological park and four pit dwellings and one elevated building have been reconstructed, along with a small museum. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "2679769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2679769", "title": "Lindsay Clarke", "text": "Lindsay Clarke\n\nLindsay Clarke (born 1939, Halifax, West Yorkshire) is a British novelist. He was educated at Heath Grammar School in Halifax and at King's College Cambridge. He worked in education for many years, in Africa, America and the UK, before becoming a full-time writer. Clarke lectures in creative writing at Cardiff University, is a Creative Consultant to The Pushkin Trust in Northern Ireland, and teaches writing workshops in Frome and London. Four radio plays were broadcast by BBC Radio 4, and a number of his articles and reviews have been published in \"Resurgence\" and \"The London Magazine.\" Lindsay has one daughter from his first marriage. In 2014 he was awarded a Civil List Pension \"in recognition of services to literature.\"\n\nHis novel \"The Chymical Wedding\", partly inspired by the life of Mary Anne Atwood, won the Whitbread Prize in 1989. Clarke's most recent novel is \"The Water Theatre\" (published in September 2010 by Alma Booka), of which a review by Antonia Senior in \"The Times\" of 28 August said \"There is nothing small about this book. It is huge in scope, in energy, in heart...It is difficult to remember a recent book that is at once so beautiful and yet so thought provoking.\" \"The Water Theatre\" was selected as a winner of the inaugural Fiction Uncovered competition in 2011 and was included among \"The Times\"'s Books of the Year. In 2012 \"The Water Theatre\" was chosen as the inaugural e-book publication of \"The New York Review of Books\" under their NYRB Lit imprint.\n\n\n\"Stoker\", a selection of verse by Lindsay Clarke appeared as a Phoenix Poetry Pamphlet in 2006.\n\n\"Imagining Otherwise\" (2004 GreenSpirit Pamphlet No 6) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "55228078", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55228078", "title": "Lorraine Gamman", "text": "Lorraine Gamman\n\nLorraine Patricia Gamman (July 1957) is professor of design at the Design Against Crime Research Centre at Central Saint Martins in the University of the Arts, London.\n\nHer taking of the oral history of professional shoplifter Shirley Pitts as part of her PhD kindled her interest in oral history as a form and lead to her book \"Gone shopping: The story of Shirley Pitts, Queen of thieves\". In 2012, the production company Tiger Aspect bought an option to acquire the television and film rights to the book.\n\nIn 1999 Gamman founded the Design Against Crime Research Centre which has led a socially responsive design focus at Central Saint Martins and has won numerous awards. She has worked in it with Marcus Willcocks , and since 2002, in partnership with the designer and researcher, Professor Adam Thorpe, with whom she co founded the Socially Responsive Design Hub at CSM involving students and staff in research projects that address crime and other social problems through design. Also since 2012, linked to involvement with the DESIS network (founded by Ezio Manzini) Gamman and Thorpe have engaged with participatory design projects, including those working with inmates in prison. All this work has attracted significant funding from external research funding councils: action design research projects Gamman has either led or co collaborated with Adam Thorpe and Marcus Willcocks such as Makeright, Bikeoff, Grippa and In The Bag.\n\nForthcoming publication\n\nGamman has written many journal articles (too numerous to list here) but some of the chapters in books she has written include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32516642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32516642", "title": "Marko Atlagić", "text": "Marko Atlagić\n\nDr Marko Atlagić (born 1949) is a Serbian historian and politician, originally from Croatia. He is one of the leaders of the Serbian Progressive Party and an expert on Historical Geography, Head of the Historical Department at the Philosophical Faculty of the University of Priština in North Kosovska Mitrovica.\n\nAtlagić had received his PhD in Heraldry, studying heraldic elements in Medieval Croatia.\n\nIn the early 1990s, he has joined up with the movement fighting for rights of the Serbian people in Croatia, deemed endangered. In 1991 he participated in Knin, a pan-Serbian meeting of the SAO Kninska Krajina as one of the speakers. As a member of the Serbian Radical Party for RSK, he was elected MP in the Parliament of the Republic of Serbian Krajina and in 1994 elected its vice-president after the SRS-dominated parliamentary majority was constituted. The government fell in late 1994, after which Atlagic resigned from the position of Deputy Speaker.\n\nIn 1995, Atlagić was Minister without portfolio in the last RSK government, under Milan Babić. After Operation Storm, he had been one of the ministers from 1995 to 2006 by the SRS-promoted Government of the RSK in Exile. In 2007, the SRS had crumbled and Marko Atlagić had supported the Tomislav Nikolić fraction as opposed to Vojislav Šešelj, becoming a member of the new Serbian Progressive Party's Presidency and assigned for Refugee and IDP problems.\n\nIn 2006, Atlagić testified at the trial of Slobodan Milosevic.\n\n"}
{"id": "31554428", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31554428", "title": "Matanawi language", "text": "Matanawi language\n\nMatanawi (\"Matanauí, Mitandua, Moutoniway\") was a divergent Amazonian language that appears to be distantly related to the Muran languages.\n"}
{"id": "3138390", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3138390", "title": "Mati Laur", "text": "Mati Laur\n\nMati Laur (born 17 June 1955 in Abja-Paluoja) is an Estonian historian. He has written and co-authored many textbooks about early modern Estonia. He has published a number of scholarly articles about eighteenth-century Estonia, which also was the subject of his Ph.D. thesis. Despite this narrow specialisation, he is professor of general history at the University of Tartu.\n\nTogether with Karsten Brüggemann, Laur is editor of the historical journal Forschungen zur Baltische Geschichte [Research on Baltic history].\n\n"}
{"id": "14838766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14838766", "title": "Matthias of Neuenburg", "text": "Matthias of Neuenburg\n\nMatthias of Neuenburg was a chronicler, born in 1295, possibly in Neuenburg am Rhein, in Baden; died between 1364 and 1370, probably in Strasbourg, in Alsace. He studied jurisprudence at Bologna, and later received minor orders, but never became a priest. In 1327 he was solicitor of the episcopal court at Basle, and shortly after, while clerk to Bishop Berthold von Buchecke, held a similar position in Strasbourg. \n\nHe has been considered to be the author of a Latin chronicle from 1243 to 1350, and of its first continuation from 1350 to 1355. Later, three other writers carried on the work to 1368, 1374, and 1378 respectively. It is an important contribution to Alsatian and Habsburg history and for the times in which Matthias lived. It has been attributed to different writers, among them to the Speyer notary, Jacob of Mainz, also to Albert of Strasbourg, especially by earlier editors, while those of later times attribute it to Matthias of Neuenburg. For the voluminous literature on this controversy see August Potthast, \"Bibliotheca Kin. Med. Aevi.\" (Berlin, 1896). \n\nAmong the editions are:\n\n\nIt has also been edited from a Vienna and a Vatican manuscript in \"Abhandlungen der Gesellschaft der Wissenschaften\", xxxvii-viii (Göttingen, 1891-2), and translated into German by Grandaur (Leipzig, 1892).\n\n"}
{"id": "1870896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1870896", "title": "Messinian salinity crisis", "text": "Messinian salinity crisis\n\nThe Messinian Salinity Crisis (MSC), also referred to as the Messinian Event, and in its latest stage as the Lago Mare event, was a geological event during which the Mediterranean Sea went into a cycle of partly or nearly complete desiccation throughout the latter part of the Messinian age of the Miocene epoch, from 5.96 to 5.33 Ma (million years ago). It ended with the Zanclean flood, when the Atlantic reclaimed the basin.\n\nSediment samples from below the deep seafloor of the Mediterranean Sea, which include evaporite minerals, soils, and fossil plants, show that the precursor of the Strait of Gibraltar closed tight about 5.96 million years ago, sealing the Mediterranean off from the Atlantic. This resulted in a period of partial desiccation of the Mediterranean Sea, the first of several such periods during the late Miocene. After the strait closed for the last time around 5.6 Ma, the region's generally dry climate at the time dried the Mediterranean basin out nearly completely within a thousand years. This massive desiccation left a deep dry basin, reaching deep below normal sea level, with a few hypersaline pockets similar to today's Dead Sea. Then, around 5.5 Ma, less dry climatic conditions resulted in the basin receiving more freshwater from rivers, progressively filling and diluting the hypersaline lakes into larger pockets of brackish water (much like today's Caspian Sea). The Messinian Salinity Crisis ended with the Strait of Gibraltar finally reopening 5.33 Ma, when the Atlantic rapidly filled up the Mediterranean basin in what is known as the Zanclean flood.\n\nEven today, the Mediterranean is considerably saltier than the North Atlantic due to its near isolation by the Strait of Gibraltar and its high rate of evaporation. If the Strait of Gibraltar closes again (which is likely to happen in the near future on a geological time scale), the Mediterranean would mostly evaporate in about a thousand years, after which continued northward movement of Africa may obliterate the Mediterranean altogether.\nIn the 19th century, the Swiss geologist and paleontologist Karl Mayer-Eymar (1826–1907) studied fossils embedded between gypsum-bearing, brackish, and freshwater sediment layers, and identified them as having been deposited just before the end of the Miocene Epoch. In 1867, he named the period the Messinian after the city of Messina in Sicily, Italy. Since then, several other salt-rich and gypsum-rich evaporite layers throughout the Mediterranean region have been dated to the same period.\n\nSeismic surveying of the Mediterranean basin in 1961 revealed a geological feature some below the seafloor. This feature, dubbed the \"M reflector\", closely followed the contours of the present seafloor, suggesting that it was laid down evenly and consistently at some point in the past. The origin of this layer was largely interpreted as related to salt deposition. However, different interpretations were proposed for the age of salt and its deposition.\n\nEarlier suggestions from Denizot in 1957 and Ruggieri in 1967 proposed that this layer was of Late Miocene age, and the same Ruggieri coined the term \"Messinian Salinity Crisis\".\n\nNew and high-quality seismic data on the M-reflector were acquired in the Mediterranean Basin in 1970, published by e.g. Auzende et al. (1971). At the same time, the salt was cored during Leg 13 of the Deep Sea Drilling Program conducted from the \"Glomar Challenger\" under the supervision of co-chief scientists William B.F. Ryan and Kenneth J. Hsu. These deposits were dated and interpreted for the first time as deep-basin products of the Messinian Salinity Crisis.\n\nThe first drilling of the Messinian salt at the deeper parts of the Mediterranean Sea came in the summer of 1970, when geologists aboard the \"Glomar Challenger\" brought up drill cores containing arroyo gravels and red and green floodplain silts; and gypsum, anhydrite, rock salt, and various other evaporite minerals that often form from drying of brine or seawater, including in a few places potash, left where the last bitter, mineral-rich waters dried up. One drill core contained a wind-blown cross-bedded deposit of deep-sea foraminiferal ooze that had dried into dust and been blown about on the hot dry abyssal plain by sandstorms, mixed with quartz sand blown in from nearby continents, and ended up in a brine lake interbedded between two layers of halite. These layers alternated with layers containing marine fossils, indicating a succession of drying and flooding periods.\n\nThe massive presence of salt does not require a desiccation of the sea. The main evidence for the evaporative drawdown of the Mediterranean comes from the remains of many (now submerged) canyons that were cut into the sides of the dry Mediterranean basin by rivers flowing down to the abyssal plain. For example, the Nile cut its bed down to several hundred feet below sea level at Aswan (where Ivan S. Chumakov found marine Pliocene foraminifers in 1967), and below sea level just north of Cairo.\n\nIn many places in the Mediterranean, fossilized cracks have been found where muddy sediment had dried and cracked in the sunlight and drought. In the Western Mediterranean series, the presence of pelagic oozes interbedded within the evaporites suggests that the area was repeatedly flooded and desiccated over the course of 700,000 years.\n\nBased on palaeomagnetic datings of Messinian deposits that have since been brought above sea level by tectonic activity, the salinity crisis started at the same time over all the Mediterranean basin, at 5.96 ± 0.02 million years ago. This episode comprises the second part of what is called the \"Messinian\" age of the Miocene epoch. This age was characterised by several stages of tectonic activity and sea level fluctuations, as well as erosional and depositional events, all more or less interrelated (van Dijk et al., 1998).\n\nThe Mediterranean-Atlantic strait closed tight time and time again, and the Mediterranean Sea, for the first time and then repeatedly, partially desiccated. The basin was finally isolated from the Atlantic Ocean for a longer period, between 5.59 and 5.33 million years ago, resulting in a large or smaller (depending on the scientific model applied) lowering of the Mediterranean sea level. During the initial, very dry stages (5.6–5.5 Ma), there was extensive erosion, creating several huge canyon systems (some similar in scale to the Grand Canyon) around the Mediterranean. Later stages (5.50–5.33 Ma) are marked by cyclic evaporite deposition into a large \"lake-sea\" basin (\"Lago Mare\" event).\n\nAbout 5.33 million years ago, at the start of the Zanclean age (at the start of the Pliocene epoch), the barrier at the Strait of Gibraltar broke one last time, re-flooding the Mediterranean basin in the Zanclean flood (Blanc, 2002; Castellanos et al., 2009), favouring slope destabilization (Gargani et al., 2014). The basin has not desiccated since.\n\nThe amount of Messinian salts has been estimated as around 4·10 kg (but this estimate may be reduced by 50 to 75% when more information becomes available) and more than 1 million cubic kilometres, exceeding by a factor of 50 the amount of salt normally contained in the Mediterranean waters. This suggests either a succession of desiccations or a long period of hypersalinity during which incoming water from the Atlantic Ocean was evaporated with the level of the Mediterranean brine being similar to that of the Atlantic. The nature of the strata points strongly to several cycles of the Mediterranean Sea completely drying and being refilled (Gargani and Rigollet, 2007), with drying periods correlating to periods of cooler global temperatures; which were therefore drier in the Mediterranean region. Each refilling was presumably caused by a seawater inlet opening, either tectonically, or by a river flowing eastwards below sea level into the \"Mediterranean Sink\" cutting its valley head back west until it let the sea in, similarly to a river capture. The last refilling was at the Miocene/Pliocene boundary, when the Strait of Gibraltar broke wide open permanently. Upon closely examining the Hole 124 core, Kenneth J. Hsu found that:\n\nResearch since then has suggested that the desiccation-flooding cycle may have repeated several times during the last 630,000 years of the Miocene epoch. This could explain the large amount of salt deposited. Recent studies, however, show that the repeated desiccation and flooding is unlikely from a geodynamic point of view.\n\nSome major questions remain concerning the beginning of the crisis in the central Mediterranean Basin. The geometric physical link between the evaporitic series identified in marginal basins accessible for field studies, such as the Tabernas basin and Sorbas basin, and the evaporitic series of the central basins has never been made.\n\nUsing the concept of deposition in both shallow and deep basins during the Messinian (i.e. assuming that both Basin types existed during this period), two major groupings are evident: one that favours a synchronous deposition (image c) of the first evaporites in all the basins before the major phase of erosion (Krijgsman et al., 1999); and the other that favours a diachronous deposition (image a) of the evaporites through more than one phases of desiccation which would first have affected the marginal basins and later the central basins.\n\nAnother school suggests that desiccation was synchronous, but occurred mainly in shallower basins. This model would suggest that the sea level of the whole Mediterranean basin fell at once, but only shallower basins dried out enough to deposit salt beds. See image b.\n\nAs highlighted in the work of van Dijk (1992) \nand van Dijk et al. (1998) the history of desiccation and erosion was complexly interacting with tectonic uplift and subsidence events, and erosional episodes. They also questioned again like some previous authors had done, whether the basins now observed as \"deep\" were actually also deep during the Messinian Episode and gave different names to the end-member scenarios described above.\n\nDistinguishing between these hypotheses requires the calibration of gypsum deposits. Gypsum is the first salt (calcium sulphate) to be deposited from a desiccating basin. Magnetostratigraphy offers a broad constraint on timing, but no fine detail. Therefore, cyclostratigraphy is relied upon to compare the dates of sediments.\nThe typical case study compares the gypsum evaporites in the main Mediterranean basin with those of the Sorbas basin, a smaller basin on the flanks of the Mediterranean Sea that is now exposed in southern Spain. The relationship between these two basins is assumed to represent the relationships of the wider region.\n\nRecent work has relied on cyclostratigraphy to correlate the underlying marl beds, which appear to have given way to gypsum at exactly the same time in both basins (Krijgsman, 2001).\n\nThe proponents of this hypothesis claim that cyclic variations in bed compositions are astronomically tuned, and the beds' magnitude can be calibrated to show they were contemporaneous—a strong argument. In order to refute it, it is necessary to propose an alternative mechanism for generating these cyclic bands, or for erosion to have coincidentally removed just the right amount of sediment everywhere before the gypsum was deposited. The proponents claim that the gypsum was deposited directly above the correlated marl layers, and slumped into them, giving the appearance of an unconformable contact. However, their opponents seize upon this apparent inconformity, and claim that the Sorbas basin was exposed—therefore eroding—while the Mediterranean sea was depositing evaporites. This would result in the Sorbas basin being filled with evaporites at 5.5 million years ago (Ma), compared to the main basin at 5.96 Ma.).\n\nRecent works have highlighted a pre-evaporite phase corresponding to a prominent erosional crisis (also named \"Messinian erosional crisis\"; the termination of the \"Mes-1\" unconformity bound depositional sequence of van Dijk, 1992) responding to a major drawdown of the Mediterranean seawater.\n\nAssuming that this major drawdown corresponds to the major Messinian drawdown, they concluded that the Mediterranean bathymetry significantly decreased before the precipitation of central basins evaporites. Regarding these works, a deep water formation seems unlikely. The assumption that central basin evaporites partly deposited under a high bathymetry and before the major phase of erosion should imply the observation of a major detritic event above evaporites in the basin. Such a depositional geometry has not been observed on data. This theory corresponds to one of the end-member scenarios discussed by van Dijk et al.\n\nSeveral possible causes of the series of Messinian crises have been considered. While there is disagreement on all fronts, the most general consensus seems to agree that climate had a role in forcing the periodic filling and emptying of the basins, and that tectonic factors must have played a part in controlling the height of the sills restricting flow between the Atlantic and Mediterranean (Gargani and Rigollet, 2007). The magnitude and extent of these effects, however, is widely open to interpretation (see, e.g., van Dijk et al. (1998).\n\nIn any case, the causes of the closing and isolation of the Mediterranean Sea from the Atlantic Ocean must be found in the area where nowadays the Strait of Gibraltar is located. In that area, one of the tectonic boundaries between the African Plate and the European Plate and its southern fragments such as the Iberian Plate, is located. This boundary Zone is characterised by the presence of an arc shaped tectonic feature, the Gibraltar Arc, which includes southern Spain and northern Africa. In the present day area of the Mediterranean Sea, three of these arc shaped belts are present: the Gibraltar Arc, the Calabrian Arc, and the Aegean Arc. The kinematics and dynamics of this plate boundary and of the Gibraltar Arc during the late Miocene are strictly related to the causes of the Messinian Salinity Crisis: Tectonic reconfiguration may have closed and re-opened passages; the region where the connection with the Atlantic Ocean was situated is permeated by strike-slip faults and rotating blocks of continental crust. As faulting accommodated the regional compression caused by Africa's convergence with Eurasia, the geography of the region may have altered enough to open and close seaways. However, the precise tectonic activity behind the motion can be interpreted in a number of ways. An extensive discussion can be found in Weijermars (1988).\n\nAny model must explain a variety of features of the area:\n\nThere are three contending geodynamic models that may fit the data, models which have been discussed in an equal way for the other arc shaped features in the Mediterranean (for a systematic review see van Dijk & Okkes, 1990):\n\n\nOf these, only the first model, invoking rollback, seems to explain the rotations observed. However, it is difficult to fit it with the pressure and temperature histories of some metamorphic rocks \n(Platt et al., 1998).\n\nThis has led to some interesting combinations of the models which at first hand looked bizarre, in attempts to approach the true state of affairs.\n\nChanges in climate must almost certainly be invoked to explain the periodic nature of the events. They occur during cool periods of Milankovic cycles, when less solar energy reached the northern hemisphere. This led to less evaporation of the North Atlantic, hence less rainfall over the Mediterranean. This would have starved the basin of water supply from rivers and allowed its desiccation.\n\nContrary to many people's instincts, there is now a scientific consensus that global sea level fluctuations cannot have been the major cause, although it may have played a role. The lack of ice caps at the time means there was no realistic mechanism to cause significant changes in sea level—there was nowhere for the water to go, and the morphology of ocean basins cannot change on such a short timescale.\n\nThe climate of the abyssal plain during the drought is unknown. There is no situation on Earth directly comparable to the dry Mediterranean, and thus it is not possible to know its climate. There is not even a consensus as to whether the Mediterranean Sea even dried out completely; it seems likeliest that at least three or four large brine lakes on the abyssal plains remained at all times. The extent of desiccation is very hard to judge due to the reflective seismic nature of the salt beds, and the difficulty in drilling cores, making it difficult to map their thickness.\n\nNonetheless, one can study the forces at play in the atmosphere to arrive at a good speculation of the climate. As winds blew across the \"Mediterranean Sink\", they would heat or cool adiabatically with altitude. In the empty Mediterranean Basin, the summertime temperatures would probably have been extremely high even during the coldest phase of any glacial era. Using the dry adiabatic lapse rate of around per kilometer, a theoretical temperature of an area below sea level would be about warmer than the temperature at sea level. Under this simplistic assumption, theoretical temperature maxima would have been around at the lowest depths of the dry abyssal plain permitting little life other than extremophiles. One can also calculate that below sea level would have resulted in 1.45 to 1.71 atm (1102 to 1300 mmHg) of air pressure at the bottom. Although it was probably quite dry in the Basin, there is no direct way to measure how much drier it would have been compared to its surroundings. Areas with less severe depths would probably have been very dry.\n\nToday the evaporation from the Mediterranean Sea supplies moisture that falls in frontal storms, but without such moisture, the Mediterranean climate that we associate with Italy, Greece, and the Levant would be limited to the Iberian Peninsula and the western Maghreb. Climates throughout the central and eastern basin of the Mediterranean and surrounding regions to the north and east would have been drier even above modern sea level. The eastern Alps, the Balkans, and the Hungarian plain would also be much drier than they are today, even if the westerlies prevailed as they do now. However, the Paratethys ocean provided water to the area north of the Mediterranean basin. The Wallachian-Pontic and Hungarian basins were underwater during the Miocene, modifying the climate of what is now the Balkans and other areas north of the Mediterranean basin. The Pannonian Sea was a source of water north of the Mediterranean basin until the middle Pleistocene before becoming the Hungarian plain. Debate exists whether the waters of the Wallachian-Pontic basin (and the possibly connected Pannonian Sea) would have had access (thus bringing water) to at least the eastern Mediterranean basin at times during the Miocene.\n\nThe Messinian event also provided an opportunity for many African species, including antelopes, elephants and hippopotamuses, to migrate into the empty basin, close to the descending great rivers, to reach interior wetter cooler highlands such as Malta as the sea level was dropping, as such species would not have been able to cross the wide hot empty sink at maximum dryness. After the return of the sea water, they remained on the islands, where they underwent insular dwarfism during the Pleistocene as on Crete (\"Hippopotamus creutzburgi\"), on Cyprus (\"H. minor\"), on Malta (\"H. melitensis\") and Sicily (\"H. pentlandi\"). Of these, the Cyprus Dwarf Hippopotamus survived until the end of the Pleistocene or early Holocene. But some of these species may have crossed the sea when it was flooded, washed out to sea on rafts of floating vegetation, or with some species (e.g. elephants) by swimming.\n\nThe water from the Mediterranean would have been redistributed in the world ocean, raising global sea level by as much as . The Mediterranean basin also sequestered below its seabed a significant percentage of the salt from Earth's oceans; this decreased the average salinity of the world ocean and raised its freezing point.\n\nThe notion of a completely waterless Mediterranean Sea has some corollaries.\n\nThere is an opinion that during the Messinian, the Red Sea was connected at Suez to the Mediterranean, but was not connected with the Indian Ocean, and dried out along with the Mediterranean. \n\nWhen the Strait of Gibraltar was ultimately breached, the Atlantic Ocean would have poured a vast volume of water through what would have presumably been a relatively narrow channel. This refill has been envisaged as resulting in a large waterfall higher than today's Angel Falls at , and far more powerful than either the Iguazu Falls or the Niagara Falls, but recent studies of the underground structures at the Gibraltar Strait show that the flooding channel descended in a rather gradual way to the dry Mediterranean.\n\nThere had been speculations about a possible dehydration of the Mediterranean Sea in the distant past, even before geology developed.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39380480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39380480", "title": "Ndoc Nikaj", "text": "Ndoc Nikaj\n\nNdoc Nikaj (1864-1951) was an Albanian priest, writer, and historian. He was the first Albanian novelist to write and publish an original novel in the Albanian language, \"Shkodra e rrethueme\" () of 1905.\n\nBorn in Shkodër on 9 March 1864, Nikaj was educated in the Albanian Pontifical Seminary and ordained as a priest in 1888. Along with Preng Doçi he was the creator of the \"Lidhja e Mshehët\" (), which aimed at overthrowing the Ottoman Empire and the creation of an independent Albania. Such league inspired the Albanian Revolt of 1910. Nikaj was one of the founders of the literary society Society for the Unity of the Albanian Language, mostly known in Albanian as \"Shoqnia Bashkimi\".\n\nNikaj established in 1909 his own printing press, \"Shtypshkronja Nikaj\" () and also founded two newspapers: \"Koha\" () in 1910 and \"Besa Shqyptare\" () in 1913. Besa Shqyptare lasted until 1921. The cultural and literary magazine \"Hylli i Dritës\" was printed there.\n\nNikaj is remembered for the two history collections of 1902, \"History of Albania\" and \"History of Turkey\" which pushed toward the consolidation of the Catholic identity between Albanians, focusing on Scanderbeg and his wars against the Ottomans. His work was criticized as inexact and tendentious by the Austrian diplomat and historian Theodore Ippen.\n\nNikaj was arrested in 1921 for unknown reasons, and little is known about him until the end of World War II. He was arrested by the communists in 1946 and died in prison in 1951.\n\nNikaj's educational, religious and other publications are the following:\n\nNikaj has written prose most of which is now rare to be found:\n"}
{"id": "2437993", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2437993", "title": "Pietro Giannone", "text": "Pietro Giannone\n\nPietro Giannone (7 May 1676 – 17 March 1748) was an Italian philosopher, historian and jurist born in Ischitella, in the province of Foggia. He opposed the papal influence in Naples, for which he was imprisoned for twelve years until his death.\n\nArriving in Naples at the age of eighteen, he devoted himself to the study of law, but his legal pursuits were much surpassed in importance by his literary works. He devoted twenty years to the composition of his great work, the \"Storia civile del regno di Napoli\" (\"History of the Kingdom of Naples\"), ultimately published in 1723. In his account of the rise and progress of the Neapolitan laws and government, he warmly espoused the side of the civil power in its conflicts with the Roman Catholic hierarchy.\n\nHis merit lies in the fact that he was the first to deal systematically with the question of Church and State, and the position taken by him, and the manner in which that position was assumed, gave rise to a lifelong conflict between Giannone and the Roman Catholic Church.\n\nDespised by the mob of Naples, and excommunicated by the archbishop's court, he was forced to leave Naples and settled in Vienna, Austria. Meanwhile, the Roman Inquisition had attested the value of his history by putting it on the Index Librorum Prohibitorum.\n\nIn Vienna the favor of the Emperor Charles VI and of many leading personages at the Austrian court obtained for him a pension and other facilities for the prosecution of his historical studies. Of these the most important result was \"Il Triregno, ossia del regno del cielo, della terra, e del papa\".\n\nOn the transfer of the Neapolitan crown to Charles of Bourbon, Giannone gave up his Austrian pension and relocated to Venice, hoping to find service with the new Neapolitan monarchy. But denied a passport to Naples, he remained in Venice where he was, at first, favorably received. The post of consulting lawyer to the republic, in which he might have continued the type of service that Fra Paolo Sarpi had exemplified in previous centuries, was offered to him, as well as that of professor of public law in Padua. He declined both offers. Unhappily there arose a suspicion that his views on maritime law were not favorable to the pretensions of Venice, and notwithstanding all his efforts to dissipate this suspicion, the distrust of Giannone together with clerical intrigues, led to his expulsion from the Republic.\n\nOn 23 September 1735 Giannone was seized and conveyed to Ferrara. He wandered under an assumed name for three months through Modena, Milan and Turin, he at last reached Geneva, where he enjoyed the friendship of the most distinguished citizens, and was on excellent terms with the great publishing firms.\n\nBut he was induced to visit a Catholic village within Sardinian territory, in order to hear mass on Easter day. Giannone was there kidnapped by the agents of the Sardinian government, conveyed to the castle of Miolans and transferred to Ceva and Turin.\n\nIn the fortress of Turin he remained imprisoned for the last twelve years of his life, although part of his time was spent in composing a defence of the Sardinian interests as opposed to those of the papacy. He was also forced to sign a retraction of statements in his books that were most obnoxious to the Vatican.\n\nAfter his recantation his detention was made less severe and he was allowed many alleviations. In spite of his stay in a Turin prison he endured the sufferings in the manner of a confessor and martyr in the cause of what he deemed historical truth.\n\nGiannone's style as an Italian writer has been pronounced to be below a severe classical model; he is often inaccurate as to the facts, for he did not always work from original authorities (see A. Manzoni, Storia della colonna infame), and he was sometimes guilty of unblushing plagiarism. But his very ease and freedom have helped to make his volumes more popular than many works of greater classical renown. In England the just appreciation of his labors by Edward Gibbon, and the ample use made of them in the later volumes of \"The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire\", early secured him his rightful place in the estimation of English scholars.\n\n\n\"Istoria civile del regno di Napoli\", Italia, 1821\n\n\"Il Triregno\", Italia, 1940\n\n\"Vita scritta da lui medesimo\", Italia, 1960\n"}
{"id": "17922353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17922353", "title": "Prometheus Unbound (Aeschylus)", "text": "Prometheus Unbound (Aeschylus)\n\nPrometheus Unbound (, \"Promētheus Lyomenos\") is a fragmentary play in the \"Prometheia\" trilogy attributed to the 5th-century BC Greek tragedian Aeschylus, thought to have followed \"Prometheus Bound\". \"Prometheus Unbound\" was probably followed by \"Prometheus the Fire-Bringer\". It is concerned with the torments of the Greek mythological figure Prometheus who defies the gods and proceeds to give fire to humanity (theft of fire), for which he is subjected to eternal punishment and suffering at the hands of Zeus. \n\nThe text of the \"Unbound\" survives only in eleven fragments preserved by later authors. Nevertheless, these fragments, combined with prophetic statements made in the first play of the trilogy, allow the reconstruction of a broad outline. \n\nA lengthy fragment translated into Latin by the Roman statesman Cicero indicates that the play would have opened with Prometheus visited by a chorus of Titans. Though Zeus had imprisoned them in Tartarus at the conclusion of the Titanomachy, he has at long last granted them clemency. This perhaps foreshadows Zeus's eventual reconciliation with Prometheus in the trilogy's third installment. Prometheus complains about his torment just as he had to the chorus of Oceanids in \"Prometheus Bound\". As the \"dramatis personae\" of \"Prometheus Bound\" erroneously lists Gaea, it has been suggested that she is next to visit Prometheus in this play, in a sympathetic role that echoes Oceanus' turn in the first play. Finally, the faulty \"dramatis personae\" mentioned above and several fragments indicate that Heracles visits the Titan just as Io had in \"Prometheus Bound\". Heracles kills the eagle that had been torturing Prometheus by eating his regenerating liver every day and frees the Titan. Again mirroring events in the previous play, Prometheus forecasts the travels of Hercules as he concludes his Twelve Labours. The play thus concludes with Prometheus free from the torments of Zeus, but the Titan and Olympian have yet to reconcile. \n\nIt inspired the play of the same title by Percy Bysshe Shelley.\n\n"}
{"id": "54863708", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54863708", "title": "René Teuteberg", "text": "René Teuteberg\n\nRené Teuteberg (born February 5, 1914 in Basel, Switzerland, February 12, 2006) was a Swiss historian.\n\nRené Teuteberg, attended schools in Basel and Schiers. He then studied history at the University of Basel, where he was awarded the Dr. Phil. Afterwards he worked as a middle school teacher at the Basel Girls' School (since 1971 Diplommittelschule). Teuteberg has written numerous publications on Basle history, including a popular overview, and has regularly held courses in this area on the subject at high school level. He also wrote six historical radio plays for Swiss radio.\n\n"}
{"id": "13603229", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13603229", "title": "Risto Kirjazovski", "text": "Risto Kirjazovski\n\nDr. Risto Kirjazovski ( (6 January 1927 – 3 October 2002) was an Ethnic Macedonian historian, scientist and publisher. He fought as a Partisan in the NOF, and also participated in the Greek Civil War. After 1949 he fled from Macedonia, Greece to SR Macedonia in Yugoslavia and worked on scientific research in the Archives of Macedonia and the Institute of National History in Skopje.\n\nKirjazovski was born on 6 January 1927 in the Kastorian village Grache (Ftelia), Greece. He finished his primary education in his native village, just before the beginning of the Second World War.\n\nBefore his 16th birthday, Kirjazovski became a participant in the national liberation war of Greece. In February 1943 as a voluntary he entered the ranks of ELAS (Greek National Liberation Army), and after the Varkiza agreement for the disarming of ELAS, he enrolled in the ethnic Macedonian organization NOF (National Liberation Front of the Aegean Macedonians). He took part in the first armed battles between NOF and right-wing Greek militias, and after 1946, when the NOF united with the DSE (Democratic Army of Greece), he became a fighter in the DSE and took part in important battles in the Greek Civil War.\n\nBecause he was the only literate soldier in his detachment, the commanders gave him important roles in writing reports and command - an attribute that gave him access to first hand information which he would later use in his publications.\n\nKirjazovski was wounded twice during military operations on the mountain Vitsi, when fighters of the DSE (composed of 60% ethnic Macedonians) were conducting heavy battles regularly.\n\nHe was a partisan from 1943 until September 1949, when the DSE was defeated and retreated to Albania.\n\nAfter the defeat of the Democratic Army, Kirjazovski left for the Socialist Republic of Macedonia, where in 1958 he achieved a university degree. For several years he worked as a teacher in Skopje and Resen, and from 1962-1974 he was an employee in the Archives of Macedonia. After that he worked in the Institute of National History as a higher scientific cooperator. In 1978 he was elected the rank scientific councilor. In 1982 he obtained his academic degree Doctor of Sciences.\n\nThe research of Dr. Kirjazovski was focused mainly on the recent history of Aegean Macedonia (1912–1949), but he also had publications referencing happenings from the end of the 19th century.\n\nDr. Kirjazovski published over 150 articles in scientific magazines, digest, and newspapers; made revisions of several books; of valuable importance is his role in the collection and ordering of the archive documentation on the Greek Civil War; and also speeches, presentations, symposia, etc.\n\nOf great interest are his articles, which are entirely written on the basis of, until then, unknown rich archive documentation which can be found today in the Archives of Macedonia (in both Greek and Macedonian languages). The field of research in his articles and scientific works was: the policy of the Communist party of Greece towards the Macedonian Question, participation of the ethnic Macedonians in the DSE, the aims of the ethnic Macedonians from Greece for the usage of the Macedonian language in schools, the aims and actions of the NOF and others.\n\nThe works of Dr. Risto Kirjazovski are of enormous importance for the history of the ethnic Macedonian people, more precisely about the history of Aegean Macedonia.\n\nBooks by Risto Kirjazovski which are considered capital works are:\n\n"}
{"id": "23681849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23681849", "title": "Robert Post (law professor)", "text": "Robert Post (law professor)\n\nRobert Charles Post (born October 17, 1947) was the Dean (2009-2017) and is a professor of law at Yale Law School.\n\nPost received his A.B. degree from Harvard in 1969 and earned his J.D. degree from Yale in 1977. While at Yale, he served as an editor of the \"Yale Law Journal\". He then clerked for D.C. Circuit Judge David Bazelon and Supreme Court Justice William J. Brennan, Jr. Post subsequently earned a Ph.D. in History of American Civilization from Harvard University, worked briefly in private practice, and started his career in law teaching at Berkeley Law in 1983. Post moved from Berkeley to Yale in 2003 and succeeded Harold Koh as Dean when Koh was appointed to serve as Legal Adviser to the U.S. State Department. Post has been quoted in the \"New York Times\" on the composition of the Supreme Court.\n\nPost's academic interests include constitutional law, First Amendment, legal history, and affirmative action. His \"Citizens Divided\" (2014) looks at the constitutional aspects of electoral finance.\n\n"}
{"id": "14942293", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14942293", "title": "Robert Skotheim", "text": "Robert Skotheim\n\nRobert Allen Skotheim (born January 31, 1933) is an American educator who has served as president of several colleges and institutions.\n\nIn 1933, Skotheim was born to Sivert and Marjorie Skotheim, school teachers in West Seattle. He attended Fauntleroy School and West Seattle High School. He was educated at Princeton University, graduated with a B.A. in history from the University of Washington, and went on to obtain a Ph.D. from University of Washington Graduate School. In 1966, he was awarded a Guggenheim Fellowship and spent a year in France. Afterwards, he taught history at the University of Colorado, Boulder and then became provost of Hobart and William Smith College in Geneva, New York.\n\nFrom 1975 to 1988, he served as the 10th president of Whitman College, where he led a $50 million capital campaign to increase the endowment and researched the history of the college. In 1988, after 12 years at Whitman, he became president at the Huntington Library. In June 1992, he announced a $4.5 million gift to the library endowment. On June 30, 2001, he stepped down from the Huntington.\n\nOn January 1, 2008, Skotheim assumed the role of interim president of Occidental College, replacing president Susan Westerberg Prager, who announced her intention to resign in mid-November. During his tenure, Skotheim was one of the oldest college presidents in the nation. On July 1, 2009, Skotheim stepped down and Jonathan Veitch, formerly dean of Eugene Lang College, took the reins.\n\nThe Nadine and Robert Skotheim Director of Education at The Huntington is endowed in his honor.\n\nOn June 14, 1953, Skotheim married Nadine Esther Vail, in Seattle, Washington, and they had three children: Marjorie, Kris and Julie.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19689124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19689124", "title": "Sharon Rotbard", "text": "Sharon Rotbard\n\nSharon Rotbard (Hebrew שרון רוטברד) (born October 2, 1959), is an Israeli architect, publisher and author, senior lecturer at the Architecture department in the Bezalel Academy, Jerusalem.\n\nSharon Rotbard was born in Tel Aviv. He studied fine arts between 1982 and 1984 at HaMidrasha Art College with Raffi Lavie, Tamar Getter and Michal Na'aman. Between 1985 and 1991 he studied architecture in Paris at the École Spéciale d'Architecture with Bernard Tschumi, Jean Nouvel and Paul Virilio.\n\nAfter returning to Israel in 1993, Rotbard worked until 1997 as a project architect at Yasky and partners, a leading Israeli architectural firm.\n\nIn 1995, with his wife Amit, he founded Babel publishers, one of Israel's first independent presses. Since 1998, he has directed the first architecture book series in Israel at Babel and published major architectural classic titles such as Le Corbusier's \"Toward A New Architecture\".\n\nIn 2000 Rotbard launched the press' website, Israel's first cultural Hebrew website, known today as \"readingmachine\". That same year, Rotbard and Babel moved to a concrete house he designed and built in Shapira neighborhood at the south of Tel Aviv.\n\nSince 2004 Rotbard has been directing \"The Library of Babel\", the fiction series of Babel, in which he has published translated titles by Georges Perec, Nadine Gordimer, Michel Houellebecq, Marie Ndiaye, Thomas Bernhard, R.K. Narayan, Atiq Rahimi, Marek van der Jagt, Harry Mathews, as well as young Israeli authors.\n\nIn 2008, Rotbard founded a new architectural practice collective, \"Babel architectures\", which was selected as one of the teams of the Ordos 100 project in Inner Mongolia (China).\n\n\nRotbard's first book \"White City, Black City\" (Hebrew \"עיר לבנה, עיר שחורה\"), on Jaffa and Tel Aviv's histories appeared in 2005. The book challenges the official historiography of Tel Aviv and traces its relationship with Jaffa.\nHis second book \"Avraham Yasky, Concrete Architecture\" a monograph on the work of Avraham Yasky, was published in 2007. The book traces the history of Israeli architecture through Yasky's career and shows its development from the concrete social architecture of the early Fifties to the commercial architecture of the 21st century.\n\nRotbard is a recipient of the Graham Foundation 2008 grant and was selected to the Ledig House international writers' Residency program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43978822", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43978822", "title": "Sir Robert Gordon, 1st Baronet", "text": "Sir Robert Gordon, 1st Baronet\n\nSir Robert Gordon, 1st Baronet (1580–1656) was a Scottish politician and courtier, known as the historian of the noble house of Sutherland.\n\nBorn at Dunrobin Castle, Golspie, Sutherland, on 14 May 1580, he was the fourth son of Alexander Gordon, 12th Earl of Sutherland, by his second wife Jean Gordon, Countess of Bothwell. In 1598 he was sent to the University of St. Andrews, where he remained six months, and then finished his education in Edinburgh. In January 1603 he went to France to study civil law, and remained there until October 1605.\n\nGordon was appointed a gentleman of the privy chamber to James I in 1606, and was knighted. On 16 July 1614 he received a grant of holdings in Ulster. In March 1614-15, having attended the king to Cambridge, he was created honorary M.A. On the death of his brother John, (twelfth or) thirteenth Earl of Sutherland, in September of the same year, he became tutor at law of his nephew John Gordon, 13th Earl of Sutherland.\n\nIn 1617 King James visited Scotland for the first time after his accession to the English throne. Among the entertainments was a competition of archery in the garden of Holyrood Palace, at which Gordon gained the prize, a silver arrow. He remained in Scotland for some time, and having settled his affairs in Sutherland, he returned with his family to England in November 1619, and in the succeeding May revisited France, when he disposed of his property of Longorme to Walter Stewart. In 1621 he returned to Sutherland, when he relieved the estates of the earl of a heavy burden of debt.\n\nIn 1623, when George Sinclair, 5th Earl of Caithness was proclaimed a rebel, and fled to the Orkney Islands, Gordon received a commission from the privy council to proceed with fire and sword against him, and took possession of Castle Sinclair, the earl's residence. Having subdued the county of Caithness, he returned with his troops into Sutherland, and soon after went back to the court in England (and probably on to France).\n\nIn 1624 Gordon was appointed one of the commissioners of the estates of the young Duke of Lennox, and two years later one of the duke's curators. On 28 May 1625, then a gentleman of the privy chamber to Charles I, he was created premier baronet of Nova Scotia, with remainder to his heir male whatsoever; and he obtained a charter under the great seal granting to him sixteen thousand acres on the coast of Nova Scotia, which were erected into a barony. He assisted under agreement Sir William Alexander of Menstrie in the plantation of a colony in Nova Scotia. A favourite of King Charles, he was employed as confidential messenger to Henrietta Maria.\n\nIn August 1629 Gordon was chosen sheriff principal of Inverness-shire, and represented the shire at the convention of 1630. In May 1630 he was sent by the lords of the council along with Sir William Seton into the north to quell some disturbances. On 13 July in the same year James, Duke of Lennox, as lord high chamberlain of Scotland, appointed him his vice-chamberlain during his absence in France. At the coronation of Charles I in Scotland in 1633, he, as vice-chamberlain, with four earls' sons, carried the king's train from the castle to the abbey. The next year he was placed on the privy council in Scotland.\n\nOn 1 May 1639 Gordon was with the court at Durham; during the First English Civil War acted as a mediator between the opposing parties. The gentry of Morayshire in 1643 appointed him, along with Thomas McKenzie of Pluscarden and John Innes of Leuchars, to confer with the Marquis of Montrose. His mother was persecuted as a Roman Catholic, and towards the end of her days excommunicated; in 1627 Gordon, to have the sentence relaxed, undertook a formal bond to the Bishop of Caithness that his mother would shun Catholic priests, and his own orthodoxy was probably suspect. In 1646, however, the presbytery of Elgin granted a testimonial in his favour. Gordon died in 1656.\n\nHis father-in-law Bishop Gordon, at his death in September 1619, left to Gordon the task of publishing his works, in English and Latin.\n\nGordon's \"Genealogical History of the Earldom of Sutherland, from its Origin to the year 1630\" (with a continuation to 1651 by Gilbert Gordon of Sallach) was edited by Henry William Weber from the original manuscript held by the Marchioness of Stafford, later Duchess of Sutherland, and published at Edinburgh, 1813. A catalogue of Gordon's library was published in 1816; and the documents he collected, including his will dated 11 July 1654, were detailed in the 6th Report of the Historical Manuscripts Commission. Some were printed at length in Edward Dunbar Dunbar, \"Social Life in Former Days\", two series, 1865-6.\n\nGordon married at London, 16 February 1613, Louise, or Lucie, born 20 December 1597, only child of John Gordon, with whom he received the lordships of Glenluce in Scotland and of Longorme in France. He had issue five sons and four daughters, including his eldest son, Sir Ludovick Gordon (1614–85) and a daughter Katherine (1621–83), married to Colonel David Barclay. He was the founder of the Morayshire family of Gordonstoun. Having acquired various estates in the shires of Elgin and Forres, he had them all united into the barony of Gordonstoun, by a charter under the great seal, dated 20 June 1642.\n\nAttribution\n"}
{"id": "1825315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1825315", "title": "Teodor Narbutt", "text": "Teodor Narbutt\n\nTeodor Narbutt (; 8 November 1784 – 27 November 1864) was a Polish–Lithuanian romantic historian and military engineer in service of the Russian Empire. He is best remembered as the author of a nine-volume Polish-language history of Lithuania from the early Middle Ages to the Union of Lublin.\n\nTeodor Narbutt was born in 1784 in the village of Szawry, near Hrodna (modern Belarus) in the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth, to a notable szlachta family of Trąby coat of arms. Early in his youth his fatherland was partitioned between Russia, Austria and Prussia. After graduating from a Piarist college at Lyubeshiv, Narbutt entered the Vilna Academy, where in 1803 he graduated in engineering. He then moved to Saint Petersburg, where he joined the Cadet Corps. He served in the Imperial Russian Army, where he became a captain in the field engineering corps. He took part in the 1807 and 1812 Russian campaigns against Napoleon Bonaparte. In 1809 he constructed the Bobruysk fortress (modern Babruysk, Belarus), for which he was awarded the Order of Saint Anna.\n\nAt the same time, since 1813 he became interested in archaeology and started to organize numerous excavations across the former Grand Duchy of Lithuania. His passion for history, culture and folklore of the lands of former Grand Duchy was first shown after 1817, at which date he started to write historical articles for various Vilna-based newspapers. He also started to collect copies of documents related to the ancient history of Lithuania, which were published in 1846 in an anthology \"Pomniki do dziejów litewskich\" (\"Monuments of Lithuanian History\"). Among the most notable primary sources he published was the 16th-century (?) \"Letopis of the Grand Dukes of Lithuania\", also known as the \"Bychowiec Chronicle\", after its founder Aleksander Bychowiec.\nBetween 1835 and 1841 he published a monumental, 9-volume history of Lithuania, covering the period from the prehistoric times to the Union of Lublin. Although largely based on folk tales, dubious and often falsified sources, the book had a tremendous impact on both historiography of Lithuania, and later on Lithuanian National Revival. Its Lithuanian translation became the first history of Lithuania written entirely from a Lithuanian perspective. Paradoxically, the book underlined the Ruthenian past of Lithuania, and as such was highly acclaimed by Russian historians and authorities alike. For it, Narbutt was awarded by Tsar Nicholas I of Russia a gold ring set with a ruby, the Order of Saint Anne and the Order of Saint Vladimir. In 1856, Narbutt published yet another collection of texts, comprising original primary sources and his own forgeries. Among the most popular of the latter was \"von Kyburg's Diary\", a fabricated account of Lithuania in the 13th century.\n\nThroughout his life, Narbutt remained an active member of the Archaeological Commission of Vilna, as well as a notable engineer. Between 1847 and 1852 he constructed a parish church in Eišiškės (Ejszyszki in Polish), now Lithuania. Although loyal to Imperial Russia, the anti-Russian January Uprising brought an end to his family. His wife, Krystyna Narbutt \"née\" Sadowska was sentenced to forced resettlement to Siberia and was not allowed to return until 1871. His older son, Ludwik Narbutt, became a notable commander of the Polish forces in the area of Lida and was killed in 1863 in fight against the Russians. The younger son Bolesław was sentenced to death by the Russian authorities, but his sentence was later changed to life imprisonment because of his young age. Narbutt's only daughter Teodora had to flee the country and was sentenced to forced labour \"in absentia\". Narbutt himself died in 1864 in Vilnius.\n\nNarbutt had no education in history and is infamous for his uncritical, amateurish approach to historical sources. In the absence of written sources, he often used dubious sources and his own imagination. Some historians believe him to be of good intentions if naive, while others accuse him of actively creating forgeries. In particular, historians identified these sources, discovered and published by Narbutt, as possible forgeries:\n\n\nAt least one of his published sources earlier suspected to be a forgery, namely the Bychowiec Chronicle, was conclusively proven to be authentic and highly valuable historical source.\n\nNarbutt's nine-volume history of Lithuania (1835–1841) is the first work to separate the history of Lithuania from that of Poland. The work ends with the Union of Lublin (1569) and the death of King Sigismund Augustus (1572), because Narbutt believed that Lithuanian history ended with the formation of the Polish–Lithuanian Commonwealth and Augustus, the last ruler of the Gediminian-Jagiellonian dynasty. There are a number of historical inaccuracies in his books, for example, Narbutt propagated the legend of Lithuanian lineage from the Romans (see: Palemonids). Narbutt was preparing a corrected second edition at the time of his death, only the summary of the Lithuanian history was published: \"Dzieje narodu litewskiego w krótkości zebrane\" (1847). \n\nBoth of these studies are critically regarded by historians because of historical inaccuracies, but Lithuanians in the 19th century, during an era of the rising national consciousness, welcomed every opportunity to derive patriotic inspiration from the past. Narbutt maintained contact with the leading Lithuanian activists of his day and corresponded extensively with Simonas Daukantas, who in the same romantic spirit wrote the first Lithuanian-language history of Lithuania.\n\nHis lack of critical judgement in differentiating between the authentic and spurious sources lessened the value of his work today, but his contributions remain very important to the Lithuanian history. Narbutt revealed many unknown historical sources, the most famous being the Bychowiec Chronicle. It is the most comprehensive version of the Lithuanian chronicles, compiled from manuscripts dating from the first half of the 16th century. He has also collected and made copies of many original manuscripts, which have provided sources for historical studies later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3018006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3018006", "title": "The Rolling Stone Interview", "text": "The Rolling Stone Interview\n\nThe Rolling Stone Interview is a feature article in the American magazine \"Rolling Stone\" that sheds light on notable figures from the worlds of music, popular culture, or politics. Editor Jann Wenner has said that the interview is \"part[ly] based on \"The Paris Review\", which featured definitive interviews with writers like Ernest Hemingway and John Steinbeck, exploring their lives, their philosophy and their technique\".\n\nSubjects of the interviews have ranged from former presidential candidate John Kerry to the landmark December 1970 interview with John Lennon. \"The Rolling Stone Interviews: 1967–1980: Talking With the Legends of Rock and Roll\" (1989, ) is a collection of significant interviews from the magazine's first 15 years.\n"}
{"id": "35261866", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35261866", "title": "Thomas Walmsley and Sons", "text": "Thomas Walmsley and Sons\n\nThomas Walmsley and Sons was a company that manufactured wrought iron. It was founded in 1866 or 1869 by Thomas Walmsley at the Atlas Forge on a site bounded by Bridgeman Street and Fletcher Street in Bolton, then in Lancashire, England. The forge had at least 16 puddling furnaces and forging and rolling mills.\n\nIn 1874 a Rastrick boiler at the forge exploded, causing six fatalities.\n\nProduction lasted for more than 100 years until 1975 when it was the last plant in the United Kingdom to produce wrought iron. Much of the plant, the wrought iron rolling mill, the Rastrick boiler and the steam engine that powered it were preserved in working order by the Ironbridge Gorge Museum Trust for its Blists Hill museum where it is used to demonstrate the process to visitors. A steam hammer supplied to the company by Nasmyth & Wilson of Patricroft is preserved outside Bolton University.\nAfter 1975 the company became steel stockholders as 'Walmsley Steelstock' and closed in 1984.\n\nThomas Walmsley was born in 1812, was an iron agent and tinplate worker in 1845 in Oxford Street Bolton. In 1869 he was an agent for the Grosmont pig iron and Bowling Iron Company from the Phoenix Ironworks in Crook Street. He had set up his own iron works by 1869. He was Mayor of Bolton from 1869 to 1871. He died in 1890 and the business passed to his son, Richard and subsequently to Richard's sons, Reginald and Ernest.\n"}
{"id": "44259317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44259317", "title": "Timeline of plant pathology", "text": "Timeline of plant pathology\n\nPlant pathology has developed from antiquity, but scientific study began in the Early modern period and developed in the 19th century.\n"}
{"id": "38748251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38748251", "title": "Tiverikoto language", "text": "Tiverikoto language\n\nTiverikoto (Tivericoto) is an extinct and poorly attested Cariban language. Terrence Kaufman placed it with Yao in his Yao group.\n"}
{"id": "47103937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47103937", "title": "Vasile Grecu", "text": "Vasile Grecu\n\nVasile Grecu (31 July 1885 – 27 May 1972) was a Romanian philologist and Byzantinist.\n\nHe became a corresponding member of the Romanian Academy in 1936. Between the years 1938-1947, he was a professor at the University of Bucharest. Grecu's works include critical editions of the works of the Greek historians Doukas, Kritoboulos of Imbros, George Sphrantzes and Constantine Porphyrogenitus.\n\n"}
{"id": "572518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=572518", "title": "Vicuña", "text": "Vicuña\n\nThe vicuña (\"Vicugna vicugna\") or vicuna (both , very rarely spelled \"vicugna\", which is actually the name of its genus) is one of the two wild South American camelids which live in the high alpine areas of the Andes, the other being the guanaco. It is a relative of the llama, and is now believed to be the wild ancestor of domesticated alpacas, which are raised for their coats. Vicuñas produce small amounts of extremely fine wool, which is very expensive because the animal can only be shorn every three years, and has to be caught from the wild. When knitted together, the product of the vicuña's wool is very soft and warm. The Inca valued vicuñas highly for their wool, and it was against the law for anyone but royalty to wear vicuña garments; today the vicuña is the national animal of Peru and appears in the Peruvian coat of arms.\n\nBoth under the rule of the Inca and today, vicuñas have been protected by law, but they were heavily hunted in the intervening period. At the time they were declared endangered in 1974, only about 6,000 animals were left. Today, the vicuña population has recovered to about 350,000, and although conservation organizations have reduced its level of threat classification, they still call for active conservation programs to protect populations from poaching, habitat loss, and other threats.\n\nUntil recently, the vicuña was thought to not have been domesticated, and the llama and the alpaca were both regarded as descendants of the closely related guanaco. But recent DNA research has shown the alpaca may well have vicuña parentage. Today, the vicuña is mainly wild, but the local people still perform special rituals with these creatures, including a fertility rite.\n\nThe vicuña is considered more delicate and graceful than the guanaco, and smaller. A key distinguishing element of morphology is the better-developed incisor roots for the guanaco. The vicuña's long, woolly coat is tawny brown on the back, whereas the hair on the throat and chest is white and quite long. The head is slightly shorter than the guanaco's and the ears are slightly longer. The length of head and body ranges from 1.45 to 1.60 m (about 5 ft); shoulder height is from 75 to 85 cm (around 3 ft); its weight is from 35 to 65 kg (under 150 lb).\n\nTo prevent poaching, a round-up is held every year, and all vicuñas with fur longer than 2.5 cm are shorn.\n\n\nVicuñas are native to the central Andes in South America, where found in Peru, northwestern Argentina, Bolivia, and northern Chile. A smaller, introduced population lives in central Ecuador. \n\nVicuñas live at altitudes of . They feed in daytime on the grassy plains of the Andes Mountains, but spend the nights on the slopes. In these areas, only nutrient-poor, tough, bunch grasses and \"Festuca\" grow. The sun's rays are able to penetrate the thin atmosphere, producing relatively warm temperatures during the day; however, the temperatures drop to freezing at night. The vicuña's thick but soft coat is a special adaptation which traps layers of warm air close to its body, so it can tolerate freezing temperatures.\n\nThe behavior of vicuñas is similar to that of the guanacos. They are very shy animals, and are easily aroused by intruders, due, among other things, to their extraordinary hearing. Like the guanacos, they frequently lick calcareous stones and rocks, which are rich in salt, and also drink salt water. Their diets consist mainly of low grasses which grow in clumps on the ground.\n\nVicuñas live in family-based groups made up of a male, five to 15 females, and their young. Each group has its own territory of about 18 km, which can fluctuate depending on the availability of food.\n\nMating usually occurs in March–April, and after a gestation period of about 11 months, the female gives birth to a single fawn, which is nursed for about 10 months. The fawn becomes independent at about 12 to 18 months old. Young males form bachelor groups and the young females search for a sorority to join. This deters intraspecific competition and inbreeding.\n\nFrom the period of Spanish conquest to 1964, hunting of the vicuña was unrestricted, which reduced its numbers to only 6,000 in the 1960s. As a result, the species was declared endangered in 1974, and its status prohibited the trade of vicuña wool. In Peru, during 1964–1966, the Servicio Forestal y de Caza in cooperation with the US Peace Corps, Nature Conservancy, World Wildlife Fund, and the National Agrarian University of La Molina established a nature conservatory for the vicuña called the Pampa Galeras – Barbara D'Achille in Lucanas Province, Ayacucho. During that time, a game warden academy was held in Nazca, where eight men from Peru and six from Bolivia were trained to protect the vicuña from poaching. The estimated population in Peru increased from 6,000 to 75,000 with protection by game wardens. Currently, the community of Lucanas conducts a \"chaccu\" (herding, capturing, and shearing) on the reserve each year to harvest the wool, organized by the National Council for South American Camelids (CONACS).\n\nThe wool is sold on the world market for over $300 per kg, to help support the community. In Bolivia, the Ulla Ulla National Reserve was founded in 1977 partly as a sanctuary for the species. Their numbers grew to 125,000 in Peru, Chile, Argentina, and Bolivia. Since this was a ready \"cash crop\" for community members, the countries relaxed regulations on vicuña wool in 1993, enabling its trade once again. While the population levels have recovered to a healthy level, poaching remains a constant threat, as do habitat loss and other threats. Consequently, the IUCN still supports active conservation programs to protect vicuñas, though they lowered their status to least concern. The US Fish and Wildlife Service has reclassified most populations as threatened, but still lists Ecuador's population as endangered.\n\nThe wool is popular due to its warmth. Its properties come from the tiny scales on the hollow, air-filled fibres. It causes them to interlock and trap insulating air. Vicuñas have some of the finest fibers in the world, at a diameter of 12 μm. The fiber of cashmere goats is 14 to 19 μm, while angora rabbit is 8 to 12 μm and that of shahtoosh from the Tibetan antelope, or chiru, is from 9 to 12 μm. Since it is sensitive to chemical treatment, the wool is usually left in its natural color.\n\nThe vicuña only produces about of wool a year, and gathering it requires a certain process. During the time of the Incas, vicuña wool was gathered by means of communal efforts called \"chacu\", in which multitudes of people herded hundreds of thousands of vicuña into previously laid funnel traps. The animals were shorn and then released; this was only done once every four years. The vicuña was believed to be the reincarnation of a beautiful young maiden who received a coat of pure gold once she consented to the advances of an old, ugly king. Because of this, it was against the law for anyone to kill a vicuña or wear its fleece, except for Inca royalty.\n\nAt present, the Peruvian government has a labeling system that identifies all garments that have been created through a government-sanctioned \"chacu\". This guarantees that the animal was captured, shorn alive, returned to the wild, and cannot be shorn again for another two years. The program also ensures that a large portion of the profits return to the villagers. However, annually, up to 22,500 kg of vicuña wool are exported as a result of illegal activities. Because of this, some countries have banned the importation of the wool to save the animal. There is a limited but growing trend to commercially produce wool from vicuñas in captivity, with growing herds in the Chilean Andes. Biologist Cristian Bonacic has expressed his concern about the possibility of habitat damage and the transmission of disease in the farms.\n\nAs of June 2007, prices for vicuña fabrics can range from US$1,800 to US$3,000 per yard. Vicuña wool can be used for apparel (such as socks, sweaters, accessories, shawls, coats, and suits) and home furnishings (such as blankets and throws). A vicuña wool scarf costs around US$1,500. A vicuña sport coat from the Italian tailoring house Kiton costs at least US$21,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "54505364", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54505364", "title": "World Turks Qurultai", "text": "World Turks Qurultai\n\nThe World Turks Qurultai (, \"Düýnölük Türk Kurultaýy\", دۉينۅلۉک تۉرک قۇرۇلتاي; , \"Du'ni'eju'zilik Tu'rki Quryltai'y\", دٷنٸەجٷزٸلٸک تٷرکٸ قۇرىلتايى; , \"Vsemirnyj Türkskij Kurultaj\"; ; abbreviated WTQ; also translated as \"World Turks Qurultay\", \"World Turkic Qurultai\" and \"World Turkic Qurultay\") is an international organisation of Turkic peoples.\n\nThe World Turks Qurultai describes itself as \"an international non-political platform designed to unite all the Turk people for cultural and spiritual integration.\"\n\nThe first annual World Turks Qurultai was held in July 2017.\n\nThe goals of the World Turks Qurultai were outlined by the organizing committee in advance of the first meeting.\n\nThe first World Turks Qurultai was planned to be held in the city of Cholpon-Ata in the mountains of Kyrgyzstan in July 2017. Representatives of all Turkic peoples were invited, including heads and representatives of public organizations, scientists and artists.\n\nMore than 160 delegates from 20 Turkic peoples attended, including representatives of the Turkish Cypriots, and the republics of Yakutia and Tuva.\n\nReports of at the original host city of Cholpon-Ata in Kyrgyzstan meant that the meeting was moved to the city of Almaty in Kazakhstan.\n\"\nThe Declaration was the outcome of talks between the delegates at the first World Turks Qurultai, and included the following declarations:\n\n\n"}
