{"id": "44847526", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44847526", "title": "Aisan Daulat Begum", "text": "Aisan Daulat Begum\n\nAisan Daulat Begum (died June, 1505, other spellings \"Ishan Daulat, Isan Daulat, Ësan Dawlat\") was the Queen consort of Moghulistan as the first wife and chief consort of Yunus Khan, a descendant of Chaghatai Khan, the second son of Genghis Khan. She was the mother of Qutlugh Nigar Khanum, and hence the grandmother of the first Mughal emperor, Babur.\n\nAisan Daulat Begum was the daughter of the Sagharichi Tuman Begs, a subdivision of the Kunchi Mughals. Her father was a powerful tribal chief, Mir Sher Ali Haji Kunji (Qunchin) Beg. She had many brothers, of whom three, Shiram Beg, Mazid Beg, and Ali Dost Beg, took leading parts in Babur's affairs.\n\nIn 1456 Abu Sa'id Mirza, who had become the ruler of Transoxiana, sent for Yunus Khan. Abu Sa'id had become annoyed with the frequent raids that the Moghuls under Esen Buqa made into his territory. He raised Yunus to the khanship and sent him with an army to Moghulistan to oppose his brother. Yunus Khan quickly gained the support of several amirs and married Aisan Daulat Begum. Aisan Daulat Begum played an important part in contemporary politics right from her young days, when she was to be married. The \"Baburnama\" says that by marrying Aisan Daulat Begum, Yunus Khan along with Aisan Daulat were seated on a white felt. According to the Tureh or ancient Institutions of the Mughals, he was ordered and raised to khanship by the Sagharichi Tuman Begs who had attacked Moghulistan.\n\nBorn in the desert and herself used to the rigors of the wild country, Aisan Daulat Begum was certainly the one to inculcate tenacity, self-reliance, courage to face hardships and a die hard attitude in her grandson Babur, which together became the integral feature of Babur's character and later the key to his success. Aisan Daulat Begum shared the many hardships for her husband's life for thirty years. Several times she fell into the hands of the enemy, but always came back from their clutches safely.\n\nBy Aisan Daulat Begum, Yunus Khan had three daughters: Mihr Nigar Khanum, Qutlugh Nigar Khanum, and Khub Nigar Khanum. Her eldest daughter Mihr Nigar Khanum, whom Sultan Abu said Mirza took for his eldest son Sultan Ahmed Mirza. By Mirza She had neither a son nor a daughter. Her second daughter Quthlugh Nigar Khanum was married to Umar Shaikh Mirza II, the King of Ferghana Valley. She was the mother of Emperor Babur, the founder of the Mughal Empire of India as well as its first Emperor. Her third daughter was Khub Nigar Khanum, who was married to Muhammad Hussain Korkan Doghlet. He had by her one son and one daughter.\n\nIn Kashghar, in 1455-56, when her daughter Mihr Nigar Khanum was an infant at the breast, Aisan Daulat Begum was captured, but was returned in safety to her husband. In Tashkand in 1472-73, when Yunus Khan had gone to buy barley at a time of dearth in Moghalistan, Aisan Daulat Begum was again captured, but returned with honour to her husband. Aisan Daulat Begum shared the vicissitudes of her remarkable husband's remarkable career for some thirty years; nursed him through two years of paralytic helplessness til his death in 1487 at the age of seventy four, and survived him about eighteen years.\n\nAisan Daulat Begum contributed a lot to the making of Babur a disciplined and preserving man. She was virtually his counselor through his early struggle to hold Farghana. In 1494, when Umar Shaikh Mirza II died, Babur was an insecure boy of about of eleven years old. He found himself surrounded by enemies from his own families, who were keen on ousting him from his father's principality of Farghana. Right from that time, Aisan Daulat Begum was constantly by her grandson's side, guiding him and helping him overcome many a political crisis. In her hands lay the real administrative power and control of the state affairs and Babur always took her advice in these matters. Old officers were reshuffled and new officers were put in charge of the administration of many areas like Andijan, Aush, Akhsi and Marghinan.\n\nTowards the end of 1494 Babur faced a political crisis when Hasan-i-Yaqub planned to dethrone Babur and raise his younger brother Jahangir Mirza to the throne. Apart from the support of his father Yaqub, Hasan also had the support of some disaffected nobles like Muhammad Baqir Beg, Sultan Muhammad Duldai, etc. But his plans were soon discovered and nobles loyal to Babur like Khwaja-i-Qazi, Qasim Quchin, and Ali Dost Taghai hastened to meet Aisan Daulat Begum to inform her about these developments. Immediately Aisan Daulat Begum took action against the conspirators. Babur was sent with some trusted people from the gate house of the outer fort towards the citadel to seize Hasan-i-Yaqub and his supporters. On reaching the place they got to know that Hasan was out on a hawking excursion. Babur's men fell upon Hasan's supporters and made them captives.\n\nWhen Hasan learned about this, he fled to Samarkand to get the help of Sultan Mahmud Mirza. But, he changed his mind after reaching Kand-i-Badam, and decided to deliver a surprise attack on Akshi and convert it into a base for further attack on Andijan, where he could wait for the arrival for his ally Sultan Mahmud Mirza. Aisan Daulat Begum got to know of this plan too and once again she took the necessary plans to deal with it. An army was sent to deal with Hasan-i-Yaqub. Hasan-i-Yaqub came forward to meet it, but in the dark of the night a chance arrow from his own soldiers killed him. Thus, Babur was saved from the evil designs of Hasan-i-Yaqub, who had failed to understand the capabilities of Aisan Daulat Begum, the lady who was the real power behind Babur.\n\nIn Andijan in 1497-98, when the town was taken from her grandson Babur by his kinsfolk. She was sent after him in safety to Khojand, and from there went on to the protection of her third daughter's home in Kashghar. At Samarkand in 1500-1, when the town was taken by Shaibam. She remained behind when Babur left the place, and rejoined him in a few months with his \"family, heavy baggage, and a few lean and hungry followers.\"\n\nAisan Daulat Begum continued to guide and support her grandson in his days as a wanderer. It was she who had related to him stories of the military exploits of Timur and Genghis Khan, and these served as his preliminary lesson in the art of warfare. About his grandmother Aisan Daulat Begum, Babur in his own words said: \"Few among women will have been my grandmother's equal for judgement and counsel; she was very wise and farsighted and most affairs of mine were carried through under her advise.\" News of her death reached Babur in Kabul early in June, 1505 during the forty days mourning for his mother.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14800516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14800516", "title": "Animal ethics", "text": "Animal ethics\n\nAnimal ethics is a term used in academia to describe human–animal relationships and how animals ought to be treated. The subject matter includes animal rights, animal welfare, animal law, speciesism, animal cognition, wildlife conservation, the moral status of nonhuman animals, the concept of nonhuman personhood, human exceptionalism, the history of animal use, and theories of justice. Animal ethics can be traced back as far as the 6th century BCE to the teachings of Pythagoras who believed that the souls of humans reincarnated into animals. European countries have taken a leading role in animal ethics with the first animal welfare group the Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, (SPCA) beginning in Great Britain in 1824. America’s first organization, the American Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Animals, (ASPCA) began in New York in 1866. \n\nIt is often stated that animal testing violates an animal’s dignity and is ethically wrong. Scientists take a utilitarian approach saying that the benefits to humans from animal testing outweigh the harm to animals. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "19079703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19079703", "title": "Anti-Venom (symbiote)", "text": "Anti-Venom (symbiote)\n\nThe Anti-Venom symbiote is a fictional character appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. It first appeared in \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" #569 and was created by Dan Slott and John Romita Jr. The creature belongs to a race of amorphous extraterrestrial parasites known as the Symbiotes and is one of Venom's symbiotic offspring.\n\nThe 2008 story \"New Ways to Die\" features the first appearance of Anti-Venom. Eddie Brock gets a job at a soup kitchen under Martin Li. Brock is unknowingly cured of his cancer by Li, who possesses special abilities, and Brock believes it to be a miracle. After Brock is attacked by Mac Gargan who is the current Venom, the symbiote attempts to reunite with Brock. Brock's skin becomes caustic to the symbiote and he is enveloped in a new white symbiote forged from the remnants of the Venom symbiote in his body bonding with his white blood cells charged with Li's healing energy, becoming Anti-Venom. Eddie later sacrificed his Anti-Venom symbiote to cure people from the Spider-Island virus.\n\nDuring the \"AXIS\" storyline, a new Anti-Venom is seen in the crowd of new heroes attending a \"self help\" style seminar being held by Roderick Kingsley (the first Hobgoblin). All the new heroes have been given heroic personas by Kingsley that already exist, but are no longer used. It is not shown whether the new Anti-Venom is indeed a symbiote or just a man in a suit designed to look like the original symbiote. However, the speech bubble used for the character is stylized in a way to suggest a distortion of the characters voice similar to the way Eddie Brock spoke when he had the Anti-Venom symbiote.\n\nDuring the \"Venom Inc.\" arc, Dr. Steven used elements of the Anti-Venom symbiote to create a new cure for the Venom symbiote's toxic shock syndrome that could adapt alongside it. When high concentrations of this serum was exposed to the Venom symbiote's biomass bonded to Flash Thompson, the Anti-Venom symbiote was recreated.\n\nAnyone possessed by the Anti-Venom symbiote possesses superhuman strength, durability, and stamina, an accelerated healing factor, genetic memory, detection of its Symbiote offspring, wall-crawling, web-generating abilities, spider-senses, immunity to Spider-Man's spider-senses, and camouflage.\n\nUnlike the other Symbiotes, the original Anti-Venom symbiote used by Eddie Brock is immune to fire, heat, and sound-based attacks. In addition, the Anti-Venom symbiote can produce antibodies that can \"cure\" a person afflicted by things like radioactivity, parasites, diseases, and drugs. The new Anti-Venom symbiote used by Flash Thompson also has the ability to heal physical injuries as well. Due to its failed attempt at curing Spider-Man's radiation-based powers, Anti-Venom causes Spider-Man's powers to cancel out when too close to Spider-Man.\n\nHowever, Anti-Venom does possess a few weaknesses of its own. It is vulnerable to high concentrations of Norman Osborn's super-venom via Freak's DNA. Additionally since Martin Li's healing touch created the Anti-Venom symbiote, Mister Negative's corrupting touch can interfere or halt Anti-Venom's healing abilities. Also as seen during the Spider-Island event, overusing his healing powers can cause Anti-Venom's powers to weaken.\n\nThe Anti-Venom symbiote's animated debut is seen on \"Ultimate Spider-Man vs the Sinister Six\", voiced by Matt Lanter. This version is created by Doctor Octopus and Michael Morbius from a sample of the Venom symbiote, and Harry Osborn is its host. In its self-titled episode \"Anti-Venom\", this symbiote is created as a candidate for Doc Ock's Sinister Six. Anti-Venom nearly kills Agent Venom only to be stopped by an ion inhibitor used by Spider-Man and Iron Patriot which leaves Anti-Venom unconscious, and its host in a coma. Anti-Venom returns in \"The Symbiote Saga\" three-part episode. During the Carnage symbiote's infestation, Anti-Venom ends up awakening from the coma to neutralize the Carnage outbreak. At Carnage's core, Anti-Venom almost gets consumed by Carnage's 'heart' until Spider-Man's secret identity is revealed to get through to Harry. Anti-Venom eventually destroys itself curing New York of Carnage's infestation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1126216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1126216", "title": "Anticipation (artificial intelligence)", "text": "Anticipation (artificial intelligence)\n\nIn artificial intelligence (AI), anticipation occurs when an agent makes decisions based on its explicit beliefs about the future. More broadly, \"anticipation\" can also refer to the ability to act in appropriate ways that take future events into account, without necessarily explicitly possessing a model of the future events.\n\nAn agent employing anticipation would try to predict the future state of the environment (weather in this case) and make use of the predictions in the decision making. For example,\n\nThese rules explicitly take into account possible future events.\n\nIn 1985, Robert Rosen defined an anticipatory system as follows:\n\nTo some extent, Rosen's definition of anticipation applies to any system incorporating machine learning. At issue is how much of a system's behaviour should or indeed can be determined by reasoning over dedicated representations, how much by on-line planning, and how much must be provided by the system's designers.\n\nHumans can make decisions based on explicit beliefs about the future. More broadly, animals can act in appropriate ways that take future events into account, although they may not necessarily have an explicit cognitive model of the future; evolution may have shaped simpler systemic features that result in adaptive anticipatory behavior in a narrow domain. For example, hibernation is anticipatory behavior, but does not appear to be driven by a cognitive model of the future.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2662556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2662556", "title": "Antonio Escobar y Mendoza", "text": "Antonio Escobar y Mendoza\n\nAntonio Escobar y Mendoza (15894 July 1669) was the leading ethicist of his time.\n\nBorn at Valladolid in Castile, he was educated by Jesuits before entering this order, aged fifteen.\n\nHe soon became a famous preacher, and his facility was so great that for fifty years he preached daily, and sometimes twice a day. Above all he was a prodigious writer: his collected works comprise eighty-three volumes. Escobar's first literary efforts were Latin verses in praise of Ignatius Loyola (1613) and Mary (1618), but his principal works focus on exegesis and moral theology. Of the latter the best-known are \"Summula casuum conscientiae\" (1627), \"Liber theologiae moralis\" (1644) and \"Universae theologiae moralis problemata\" (1652–1666). He used to employ the most popular ethical method called casuistry, analyzing real situations rather than strict rules.\n\nEscobar's \"Summula\" received criticism from so-called rigorists, especially a jansenist Blaise Pascal who wrote \"Provincial Letters\". Pascal coined the famous maxim that purity of intention may be a justification of actions which are in themselves contrary to the moral code and to human laws, and its general tendency is to find excuses for human weakness. Escobar's doctrines were also disapproved by some conservative Catholics, however he was very appreciated by the mainstream. Molière subjected Escobar to ridicule in his customary witty style, and Escobar was also the target of criticism by Boileau and La Fontaine. By the 18th and in the 19th century, in France the name \"Escobar\" had become synonymous with \"adroitness in making the rules of morality harmonize with self-interest\".\n\nAlthough Escobar is commented as having followed simple habits in his personal life, being a strict adherent to the rules of the Society of Jesus, it was for his zealous efforts to reform the lives of others he was rebuked. It was said that Escobar \"purchased Heaven expensively for himself, but gave it away cheaply to others\".\n\nEscobar died at Valladolid in 1669, following which, ten years later, rigorous pope Innocent XI publicly condemned his sixty-five sentences, as well as teachings of other ethical authorities, for being \"propositiones laxorum moralistarum\"; nonetheless, it was a criticism towards few judgements and not the scholar in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "17237556", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17237556", "title": "Because I could not stop for Death", "text": "Because I could not stop for Death\n\n\"Because I could not stop for Death\" is a lyrical poem by Emily Dickinson first published posthumously in \"Poems: Series 1\" in 1890. The persona of Dickinson's poem meets personified Death. Death is a gentleman caller who takes a leisurely carriage ride with the speaker to her grave. According to Thomas H. Johnson's variorum edition of 1955 the number of this poem is 712.\n\nThe poem was published posthumously in 1890 in \"Poems: Series 1\", a collection of Dickinson's poems assembled and edited by her friends Mabel Loomis Todd and Thomas Wentworth Higginson. The poem was published under the title \"The Chariot\". It is composed in six quatrains with the meter alternating between iambic tetrameter and iambic trimeter. Stanzas 1, 2, 4, and 6 employ end rhyme in their second and fourth lines, but some of these are only close rhyme or eye rhyme. In the third stanza, there is no end rhyme, but \"ring\" in line 2 rhymes with \"gazing\" and \"setting\" in lines 3 and 4 respectively. Internal rhyme is scattered throughout. Figures of speech include alliteration, anaphora, paradox, and personification. The poem personifies Death as a gentleman caller who takes a leisurely carriage ride with the poet to her grave. She also personifies immortality. The volta (turn) happens in the fourth quatrain. Structurally, the syllables shift from its constant 8-6-8-6 scheme to 6-8-8-6. This parallels with the undertones of the sixth quatrain. The personification of death changes from one of pleasantry to one of ambiguity and morbidity: \"Or rather--He passed Us-- / The Dews drew quivering and chill--\" (13–14). The imagery changes from its original nostalgic form of children playing and setting suns to Death's real concern of taking the speaker to the afterlife.\n\nIn 1936 Allen Tate wrote,\nThe poem has been set to music by Aaron Copland as the twelfth song of his song cycle \"Twelve Poems of Emily Dickinson\". And again, by John Adams as the second movement of his choral symphony \"Harmonium\", and also set to music by Nicholas J. White as a single movement piece for chorus and chamber orchestra. Natalie Merchant and Susan McKeown have created a song of the same name while preserving Dickinson's exact poem in its lyrics.\n\n"}
{"id": "28814788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28814788", "title": "Beginners", "text": "Beginners\n\nBeginners is a 2010 American romantic comedy-drama film written and directed by Mike Mills. It tells the story of Oliver, a man reflecting on the life and death of his father, Hal, while trying to forge a new romantic relationship with a woman, Anna, dealing with father issues of her own. The film is based on the true-life coming out of Mills' father at the age of 75, five years before his death.\n\n\"Beginners\" premiered at the 2010 Toronto International Film Festival, where the \"Los Angeles Times\" heralded it as a \"heady, heartfelt film\" with a cast who have \"a strong sense of responsibility to their real-world counterparts\". Christopher Plummer received numerous accolades, including the 2011 Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor, for his performance.\n\nThe film is structured as a series of interconnected flashbacks. Following the death of his father Hal from cancer, Oliver reflects on their relationship during the five years since the death of Oliver's mother, Georgia. Shortly after her death, Hal came out to his son and began exploring life as an openly gay man. He becomes active in the gay community, finds love with a much younger man and becomes more honest with himself and with his son. As a result, Oliver and Hal become closer during this time. Shortly after Hal's death, Oliver meets Anna, a French actress, at a party. Inspired by his father's attitude towards the end of his life and their relationship, Oliver decides to pursue a romance with her.\n\n\nWith cinematography by Kasper Tuxen, \"Beginners\" was filmed using the Red One digital camera. Much of the film is autobiographical, and is based on director Mike Mills' experiences after his own father came out of the closet following his mother's death.\n\nThe \"Siedem Razy Kobieta\" poster on the wall in Oliver's dining room is from the Polish language version of the 1967 Shirley MacLaine film \"Woman Times Seven\".\n\nOn review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes, the film has an approval rating of 84% based on 150 reviews, with an average rating of 7.3/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Wearing its twee heart on its sleeve, \"Beginners\" explores the depths of modern, multi-generational romance with wit and depth.\" At Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film holds an average score of 81 out of 100, based on 36 critics, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nCalvin Wilson from the \"St. Louis Post-Dispatch\" wrote, \"A lovably quirky comedy-drama with a rhythm all its own.\" Diego Costa from \"Slant Magazine\" wrote, \"One of the most distinct pleasures of \"Beginners\" is the way it puts together fragments of someone's life — presumably the filmmaker's, although little does it matter — with humility, and without vying for some complete whole.\" Lisa Schwarzbaum from \"Entertainment Weekly\" wrote, \"The movie darts, dreams, and sometimes seems to dance. The great Plummer, meanwhile, creates an inspiring, fully rounded man in late bloom, and McGregor responds with a performance to match.\"\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" gave the film three-and-a-half stars out of four, saying, \"It's a hopeful fable with deep optimism and a cheerful style that kids itself.\" Peter Debruge from \"Variety\" said the film is \"deeply poignant and disarmingly personal\".\n\n\"Beginners\" won the Gotham Award for Best Feature, shared with \"The Tree of Life\", in 2011. For his performance, Christopher Plummer won the British Academy Film Award, Denver Film Critics Society Award, Golden Globe Award, Los Angeles Film Critics Association Award, National Board of Review Award, Online Film Critics Award, and Screen Actors Guild Award, all for Best Supporting Actor.\n\nIn addition, Plummer was nominated for the Satellite Award for Best Supporting Actor and the film was also nominated for Independent Spirit Awards for Best Director and Best Screenplay, and won for Best Supporting Male (Plummer). At the 84th Academy Awards, Plummer won the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor.\n\n"}
{"id": "44973130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44973130", "title": "Boothville House", "text": "Boothville House\n\nBoothville is a heritage-listed villa and former maternity hospital at 43 Seventh Avenue, Windsor, City of Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. It was built from 1887 to . It is also known as Monte Video. It was added to the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992.\n\nThis two-storeyed brick residence, formerly known as Monte Video, was erected in 1887 for Henry Wallis Glenny, head office manager of the Queensland National Bank from 1884 to 1892.\n\nBetween 1885 and 1887 Glenny acquired several Eildon Hill subdivisions, including the Boothville site. Usually the Queensland National Bank provided residential accommodation for their managers, but in Glenny's case the directors granted him a loan of on 23 March 1887, to build his own residence. The house may have been designed by former colonial architect Francis Drummond Greville Stanley, who designed a large number of bank offices and residences for the Queensland National Bank, including the head office in Brisbane, erected 1881-85.\n\nIn 1892 Glenny retired from the Queensland National Bank, which purchased the house from him. It was rented briefly but mostly remained unoccupied until Walter Vardon Ralston, the new general manager of the bank, and his family occupied the residence in 1896. Initially Ralston rented the house for per annum, but later this was waived, and in 1918 he purchased Monte Video from the bank. During the Ralstons' occupancy a single-storeyed timber extension, which housed a large billiard room and beyond that an L-shaped sunroom opening to an eastern porch, aviary and fernery, was added at the rear .\n\nWalter Ralston died in 1920 but his widow remained in the house until 1922.\n\nIn 1923 Monte Video was acquired by William Bramwell Booth, son of William Booth the English founder of the Salvation Army. He purchased the property on behalf of the organisation, and in May 1924 the Salvation Army Mothers Hospital moved from Breakfast Creek to Monte Video, which was renamed Boothville. Boothville provided maternity and adoption services for single mothers.\n\nApart from a small portion of land which was sold in 1925 to P & AE Nelson, and which was bequeathed back to the Salvation Army in 1956, the hospital and grounds have remained part of the Salvation Army Queensland Property Trust since 1933.\n\nA number of buildings associated with the hospital have been erected on the site since 1924. These include a single-storeyed building which was transported from the hospital's previous site at Breakfast Creek, raised to two-storey height and built in underneath, and a cottage which was relocated from a site in Jephson Street in Toowong in 1962.\n\nA brick labour ward was added in the 1970s, and more recently the courtyard between the two rear wings has been covered and concreted. Recently a brick theatre wing has been added off the eastern side of the timber wing.\n\nThe Salvation Army ceased to operate Boothville as a hospital in 1994 and it was restored as a private residence. In July 2013, Boothville was sold for $3.9 million.\n\nLocated on over of hilltop land, Boothville is a complex of double and single-storeyed timber and masonry buildings. The original rendered masonry and timber house remains as the main focal building, sited in a commanding position at the crest of the hill.\n\nThe main building has a long thin U-shaped plan consisting of, to the south, the original double-storeyed masonry house with now enclosed timber verandahs, its single storeyed rendered masonry service wing to the north-west, and the single-storeyed L-shaped timber addition to the north east. The roof is a series of intersecting pitches dominated by the main roof, which features a flattened central portion bound by a cast iron decorative balustrade with finials.\n\nThe front (south) elevation of the original house features a double-storeyed bay window under a gable end with carved eaves brackets, and a projecting timber entrance portico with three-post columns, shaped rafter ends and stained glass panels. Verandahs to the south and east have been enclosed with weatherboard, and sheeted in to the west. On both the west and eastern elevations, remains of decorative timber detailing to the verandahs can be seen, with arched battening, a herring bone frieze, and timber columns with capitals. The covered walkway to the service wing to the north features cast iron columns with corinthian capitals.\n\nThe entrance door which connected the southern portico to the entry vestibule has been replaced, but its cedar surrounds with stained glass remain. The entry vestibule features a rendered masonry archway at the foot of finely carved timber stairs. To the east is a grand reception room, with an ornate plaster cornice and richly detailed timber and tiled fireplace. The room has folding cedar doors which once linked it to a parlour which is now a ward. The office to the west has elaborate and finely carved timber cupboards, side board, mirrors and overmantel framing a mosaic tiled fireplace built into the northern wall. The \"service wing\" to the rear consists of a large former dining room, a smaller room with a corner fireplace which is now enclosed and which probably functioned as the servants' hall, a large kitchen, and a pantry and scullery, which are now storerooms.\n\nAt half-landing level, the stairs lead to a small timber-lined room and another narrower staircase, which leads to what was probably the servants' bedroom above the dining room. Narrow back stairs also lead from the service wing to this bedroom and from the half-landing level to an upper floor room, which was probably the nursery. The top floor housed four bedrooms and a dressing room, which now serve as wards and a kitchen. The principal rooms feature carved timber mantelpieces, and the southern rooms have excellent views of the inner north-western suburbs and city centre.\n\nThe grounds retain remnants of the former garden, terracing and fernery and established trees are located around the boundary. Low masonry fences with cast-iron balustrading define the front terraces. The western side of the house has an old well (which had been sealed over but was re-opened in 1986), and a Garden Chapel. A bitumen driveway follows the original curve around the front lawn to a semi-circular parking area, formerly the carriage reception area, and continues in the direction of the now demolished coach house at the rear. Much of the brick guttering to the early driveway survives.\n\nDespite modification for its function as a maternity hospital, the essential form of the main building remains intact, as do major internal decorative features. The modifications have not substantially diminished the picturesque quality of the siting of the building, its grounds, and some of its external features.\n\nBoothville was listed on the Queensland Heritage Register on 21 October 1992 having satisfied the following criteria.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the evolution or pattern of Queensland's history.\n\nBoothville is important in demonstrating the pattern of development of Brisbane's northern suburbs in the late 19th century. It is a large, fundamentally intact masonry residence of the late 1880s which, together with the surviving grounds, is representative of more affluent late 19th century domestic architecture and landscaping in Brisbane.\n\nThe place is important in demonstrating the principal characteristics of a particular class of cultural places.\n\nIt is a large, fundamentally intact masonry residence of the late 1880s which, together with the surviving grounds, is representative of more affluent late 19th century domestic architecture and landscaping in Brisbane.\n\nThe place is important because of its aesthetic significance.\n\nThe picturesque quality of the siting and remaining external features of the main building at Boothville, and its grounds, make an important contribution to the Windsor townscape. The core building contains finely crafted timber joinery, plaster cornices and leadlights.\n\nThe place has a strong or special association with a particular community or cultural group for social, cultural or spiritual reasons.\n\nBoothville is significant for its special association with the work of the Salvation Army in Queensland, and has social significance as a maternity hospital for nearly 7 decades.\n\nThe place has a special association with the life or work of a particular person, group or organisation of importance in Queensland's history.\n\nBoothville is significant for its special association with the work of the Salvation Army in Queensland, and has social significance as a maternity hospital for nearly 7 decades.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1172515", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1172515", "title": "Computronium", "text": "Computronium\n\nComputronium is a material hypothesized by Norman Margolus and Tommaso Toffoli of the Massachusetts Institute of Technology to be used as \"programmable matter\", a substrate for computer modeling of virtually any real object.\n\nIt also refers to a theoretical arrangement of matter that is the best possible form of computing device for that amount of matter.\n\nIn the \"Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" books, by Douglas Adams, the entire Earth is portrayed as programmable matter; a computer designed to find the question to the Answer to Life, the Universe, and Everything.\n\nCharles Stross uses the term in \"Accelerando\".\n\nGreg Egan uses the term in \"Zendegi\".\n\nIn the Revelation Space books, by Alastair Reynolds, a neutron star called Hades is converted into a massive super computer. The neutronium substance of Hades would therefore be computronium.\n\nIn Orion's Arm Universe Project computronium is any form of matter which supports computation, including the human brain.\n\nIn Charles Stross and Cory Doctorow's book, \"The Rapture of the Nerds\", the Sun is surrounded by Dyson spheres of computronium, which host the Singularity.\n\nThe Ultimate Marvel version of Tony Stark is specifically said to have his cell structure composed of \"biological computronium\".\n\nIn The Turing Exception Singularity Series Book 4 by William Hertling Artificial Intelligence utilizes Nano Technology to create vast fields of solar powered computronium out of existing materials, on Earth during an attack on humanity. \n\nIn \"Destiny (video game)\" the most common currency, Glimmer, is described as programmable matter that can be transmuted into nearly anything, similar to computronium.\n\nIn \"Ashes of the Singularity\" planets are converted into a substance called Turinium used to compute uploaded human consciousness and artificial intelligences. \n\nIn Hannu Rajaniemi's books \"The Quantum Thief\", \"The Fractal Prince\" and \"The Causal Angel\", planet-sized supercomputers are made of computronium.\n\nIn \"The Long Earth (series)\", a transdimensional travel device is constructed of computronium.\n\n"}
{"id": "3728225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3728225", "title": "Deep One", "text": "Deep One\n\nThe Deep Ones are creatures in the Cthulhu Mythos of H. P. Lovecraft. The beings first appeared in Lovecraft's novella \"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\" (1931), but were already hinted at in the early short story \"Dagon\". The Deep Ones are a race of intelligent ocean-dwelling creatures, approximately human-shaped but with a fishy, froggy appearance. They regularly mate with humans along the coast, creating societies of hybrids.\n\nNumerous Mythos elements are associated with the Deep Ones, including the legendary town of Innsmouth, the undersea city of Y'ha-nthlei, the Esoteric Order of Dagon, and the beings known as Father Dagon and Mother Hydra. After their debut in Lovecraft's tale, the sea-dwelling creatures resurfaced in the works of other authors, especially August Derleth.\n\nLovecraft provides a description of the Deep Ones in \"The Shadow Over Innsmouth\":\n\nLovecraft describes the Deep Ones as a race of undersea-dwelling humanoids whose preferred habitat is deep in the ocean (hence their name). However, despite being primarily marine creatures, they can come to the surface, and can survive on land for extended periods of time. All Deep Ones are immortal; none die except by accident or violence. They are said to serve the beings known as Father Dagon and Mother Hydra, as well as Cthulhu. They are opposed by mysterious beings known as the Old Gods, whose powerful magic can keep them in check. This detail is one of the vestigial hints that August Derleth developed as the mostly unnamed Elder Gods.\n\nThe backstory of \"The Shadow over Innsmouth\" involves a bargain between Deep Ones and humans, in which the aquatic species provides plentiful fishing and gold in the form of strangely formed jewelry. In return, the land-dwellers give human sacrifices and a promise of \"mixing\"—the mating of humans with Deep Ones. Although the Deep One hybrid offspring are born with the appearance of a normal human being, the individual will eventually transform into a Deep One, gaining immortality—by default—only when the transformation is complete.\n\nThe transformation usually occurs when the individual reaches middle age. As the hybrid gets older, he or she begins to acquire the so-called \"Innsmouth Look\" as he or she takes on more and more attributes of the Deep One race: the ears shrink, the eyes bulge and become unblinking, the head narrows and gradually goes bald, the skin becomes scabrous as it changes into scales, and the neck develops folds which later become gills. When the hybrid becomes too obviously non-human, it is hidden away from outsiders. Eventually, however, the hybrid will be compelled to slip into the sea to live with the Deep Ones in one of their undersea cities.\n\nMother Hydra and her consort Father Dagon are both Deep Ones overgrown after millennia ruling over their lesser brethren. Together with Cthulhu, they form the triad of gods worshiped by the Deep Ones (their names are inspired by Dagon, the Semitic fertility deity, and the Hydra of Greek mythology).\n\nMother Hydra is not to be confused with the entity in Henry Kuttner's story \"Hydra\".\n\n\"Cyclopean and many-columned Y'ha-nthlei\" is the only Deep One city named by Lovecraft. It is described as a great undersea metropolis below Devil's Reef just off the coast of Massachusetts, near the town of Innsmouth. Its exact age is not known, but one resident is said to have lived there for 80,000 years. In Lovecraft's story, the U.S. government torpedoed Devil's Reef, and Y'ha-nthlei was presumed destroyed, although the ending of the story implies it survived.\n\nThe name \"Y'ha-nthlei\" may have been inspired by the Lord Dunsany character \"Yoharneth-Lahai\", \"the god of little dreams and fancies\" who \"sendeth little dreams out of PEGANA to please the people of Earth.\"\n\nOther authors have invented Deep One cities in other parts of the ocean, including Ahu-Y'hloa near Cornwall and G'll-Hoo, near the volcanic island of Surtsey off the coast of Iceland.\n\nAnders Fager has described the city of \"Ya' Dich-Gho\" as located in the Stockholm skerries. It is accidentally destroyed in 1982 during a Swedish submarine-hunt. At least two surviving Deep Ones live in Stockholm. One of them sells aquarist's supplies. The destruction of Ya' Dich-Gho is described in \"When Death Came to Bod Reef\"; the city's history in \"Herr Goering's Artefact\" and the life of the survivors in \"Three Weeks of Bliss\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5914541", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5914541", "title": "Evolution of ageing", "text": "Evolution of ageing\n\nEnquiry into the evolution of ageing aims to explain why survival, reproductive success, and functioning of almost all living organisms decline at old age. Leading hypotheses suggest that a combination of limited resources, and an increasing risk of death by environmental causes determine an \"optimal\" level of self-maintenance, i.e. the repair of molecular and cellular level damage that accumulates over time. Allocation of limited resources into such damage repair is traded-off with investment into reproduction, which determines the individual's Darwinian fitness. In consequence, traits that improve an individual's performance in early life are favored by selection, even if the same traits have negative effects late in life, when the individual has already passed on their genes to the next generation.\n\nAugust Weismann was responsible for interpreting and formalizing the mechanisms of Darwinian evolution in a modern theoretical framework. In 1889, he theorized that ageing was part of life's program because the old need to remove themselves from the theatre to make room for the next generation, sustaining the turnover that is necessary for evolution. This theory again has much intuitive appeal, but it suffers from having a teleological or goal-driven explanation. In other words, a \"purpose\" for ageing has been identified, but not a \"mechanism\" by which that purpose could be achieved. Ageing may have this advantage for the long-term health of the community; but that doesn't explain how individuals would acquire the genes that make them get old and die, or why individuals that had ageing genes would be more successful than other individuals lacking such genes. (In fact, there is every reason to think that the opposite is true: ageing \"decreases\" individual fitness.) Weismann later abandoned his theory.\n\nTheories suggesting that deterioration and death due to ageing are a purposeful result of an organism's evolved design (such as Weismann's \"programmed death\" theory) are referred to as theories of programmed ageing or adaptive ageing. The idea that the ageing characteristic was selected (an adaptation) because of its deleterious effect was largely discounted for much of the 20th century, but a theoretical model suggests that altruistic ageing could evolve if there is little migration among populations.\n\nThe first modern theory of mammal ageing was formulated by Peter Medawar in 1952. It formed from discussions in the previous decade with J. B. S. Haldane and the selection shadow concept. Their idea was that ageing was a matter of neglect. Nature is a highly competitive place, and almost all animals in nature die before they attain old age. Therefore, there is not much reason why the body should remain fit for the long haul – not much selection pressure for traits that would maintain viability past the time when most animals would be dead anyway, killed by predators, disease, or accident.\n\nMedawar's theory is referred to as \"Mutation Accumulation\". The mechanism of action involves random, detrimental \"germline\" mutations of a kind that happen to show their effect only late in life. Unlike most detrimental mutations, these would not be efficiently weeded out by natural selection. On the grand scale, senescence would just be the summation of deleterious genes that only present in older individuals. Hence they would 'accumulate' and, perhaps, cause all the decline and damage that we associate with ageing.\n\nModern genetics science has disclosed a possible problem with the mutation accumulation concept in that it is now known that genes are typically expressed in specific tissues at specific times (see regulation of gene expression). Expression is controlled by some genetic \"program\" that activates different genes at different times in the normal growth, development, and day-to-day life of the organism. Defects in genes cause problems (genetic diseases) when they are not properly expressed when required. A problem late in life suggests that the genetic program called for expression of a gene only in late life and the mutational defect prevented proper expression. This implies existence of a program that called for different gene expression at that point in life. Why, given Medawar's concept, would there exist genes only needed in late life or a program that called for different expression only in late life? The \"maintenance mechanism\" theory (discussed below) avoids this problem.\n\nMedawar's concept suggested that the evolution process was affected by the age at which an organism was capable of reproducing. Characteristics that adversely affected an organism prior to that age would severely limit the organism's ability to propagate its characteristics and thus would be highly \"selected against\" by natural selection. Characteristics that caused the same adverse effects that only appeared well after that age would have relatively little effect on the organism's ability to propagate and therefore might be allowed by natural selection. This concept fits well with the observed multiplicity of mammal life spans (and differing ages of sexual maturity) and is important to all of the subsequent theories of ageing discussed below.\n\nYoung cohorts, not depleted in numbers yet by extrinsic mortality, contribute far more to the next generation than the few remaining older cohorts, so the force of selection against late-acting deleterious mutations, which affect only these few older individuals, is very weak. The mutations may not be selected against, therefore, and may spread over evolutionary time into the population.\n\nThe major testable prediction made by this model is that species that have high extrinsic mortality in nature will age more quickly and have shorter intrinsic lifespans. This is borne out among mammals, the best-studied in terms of life history. There is a correlation among mammals between body size and lifespan, such that larger species live longer than smaller species under controlled/optimum conditions, but there are notable exceptions. For instance, many bats and rodents are of similar size, yet bats live much longer. For instance, the little brown bat, half the size of a mouse, can live 30 years in the wild. A mouse will only live 2–3 years even under optimum conditions. The explanation is that bats have fewer predators, and therefore low extrinsic mortality. More individuals survive to later ages, so the force of selection against late-acting deleterious mutations is stronger. Fewer late-acting deleterious mutations equates to lower mortality and therefore a longer lifespan. Birds are also warm-blooded and are similar in size to many small mammals, yet often live 5–10 times as long. They have less predation pressure than ground-dwelling mammals. Seabirds, which, in general, have the fewest predators of all birds, live longest.\n\nWhen examining the body-size vs. lifespan relationship, one also observes that predatory mammals tend to live longer than prey mammals in a controlled environment, such as a zoo or nature reserve. The explanation for the long lifespans of primates (such as humans, monkeys, and apes) relative to body size is that their intelligence, and often their sociality, help them avoid becoming prey. High position in the food chain, intelligence and cooperativeness all reduce extrinsic mortality in species.\n\nMedawar's theory was further developed by George C. Williams in 1957, who noted that senescence may be causing many deaths, even if animals are not 'dying of old age.' In the earliest stages of senescence, an animal may lose a bit of its speed, and then predators will seize it first, while younger animals flee successfully. Or its immune system may decline, and it becomes the first to die of a new infection. Nature is such a competitive place, said Williams, (turning Medawar's argument back at him), that even a little bit of senescence can be fatal; hence natural selection does indeed care; ageing isn't cost-free.\n\nWilliams's objection has turned out to be valid: Modern studies of demography in natural environments demonstrate that senescence does indeed make a substantial contribution to the death rate in nature. These observations cast doubt on Medawar's theory. Another problem with Medawar's theory became apparent in the late 1990s, when genomic analysis became widely available. It turns out that the genes that cause ageing are not random mutations; rather, these genes form tight-knit families that have been around as long as eukaryotic life. Baker's yeast, worms, fruit flies, and mice all share some of the same ageing genes.\n\nWilliams (1957) proposed his own theory, called antagonistic \"pleiotropy\". Pleiotropy means one gene that has two or more effects on the phenotype. In antagonistic pleiotropy, one of these effects is beneficial and another is detrimental. In essence, this refers to genes that offer benefits early in life, but exact a cost later on. If evolution is a race to have the most offspring the fastest, then enhanced early fertility could be selected even if it came with a price tag that included decline and death later on. Because ageing was a side effect of necessary functions, Williams considered any alteration of the ageing process to be \"impossible.\"\n\nAntagonistic pleiotropy is a prevailing theory today, but this is largely by default, and not because the theory has been well verified. In fact, experimental biologists have looked for the genes that cause ageing, and since about 1990 the technology has been available to find them efficiently. Of the many ageing genes that have been reported, some seem to enhance fertility early in life, or to carry other benefits. But there are other ageing genes for which no such corresponding benefit has been identified. This is not what Williams predicted. This may be thought of as partial validation of the theory, but logically it cuts to the core premise: that genetic trade-offs are the root cause of ageing.\n\nAnother difficulty with antagonistic pleiotropy and other theories that suppose that ageing is an adverse side effect of some beneficial function is that the linkage between adverse and beneficial effects would need to be \"rigid\" in the sense that the evolution process would not be able to evolve a way to accomplish the benefit without incurring the adverse effect even over a very long time span. Such a rigid relationship has not been experimentally demonstrated and, in general, evolution is able to independently and individually adjust myriad organism characteristics.\n\nIn breeding experiments, Michael R. Rose selected fruit flies for long lifespan. Based on antagonistic pleiotropy, Rose expected that this would surely reduce their fertility. His team found that they were able to breed flies that lived more than twice as long as the flies they started with, but to their surprise, the long-lived, inbred flies actually laid more eggs than the short-lived flies. This was another setback for pleiotropy theory, though Rose maintains it may be an experimental artefact.\n\nA third mainstream theory of ageing, the ''Disposable soma\" theory, proposed in 1977 by Thomas Kirkwood, presumes that the body must budget the amount of energy available to it. The body uses food energy for metabolism, for reproduction, and for repair and maintenance. With a finite supply of food, the body must compromise, and do none of these things quite as well as it would like. It is the compromise in allocating energy to the repair function that causes the body gradually to deteriorate with age. A caveat to the disposable soma theory suggests that time, rather than energy, is a limiting resource that may be critical to an organism. The concept is that each organism must reproduce in an optimal period in order to ensure the greatest chance of success for the offspring. This optimal period is dictated by the ecological niche of the organism but in essence, it limits the time that any given organism can devote to growth and development prior to bearing offspring. Thus, developmental rate and gestational rate are subject to evolutionary pressure. The need to accelerate gestation limits the time allocated to damage repair at the cellular level, resulting in an accumulation of damage and a decreased lifespan relative to organisms with longer gestation. This concept stems from a comparative analysis of genomic stability in mammalian cells.\n\nThere are arguments against the disposable soma theory. The theory clearly predicts that a shortage of food should make the compromise more severe all around; but in many experiments, ongoing since 1930, it has been demonstrated that animals live longer when fed substantially less than controls. This is the caloric restriction (CR) effect, and it cannot be easily reconciled with the Disposable Soma theory. Though by decreasing energy expenditure the damage generated (by free radicals, for instance) is expected to be reduced and the total energy budget might indeed be reduced, but the investment in repair function might still be relatively the same. But dietary restriction has not been shown to increase lifetime reproductive success (fitness), because when food availability is lower, reproductive output is also lower. So CR does thus not completely dismiss disposable soma theory.\n\nWith respect to such limitations Kriete proposed consideration of systems-level properties like robustness to characterize ageing as a robustness tradeoff. According to this concept living systems evolve into a state of highly optimized tolerance promoting traits beneficial for survival and fitness at the cost of fragilities driving the ageing phenotype. The view is compatible with aspects of the antagonistic pleiotropy and the disposable soma theory, but offers additional mechanisms rooted in complex systems theory.\n\nA raised criticism for all three mainstream theories based on classical evolutionary process concepts is the potential existence of 'deliberate' metabolic mechanisms that work to promote death.\n\nOne is \"apoptosis\", or programmed cell death. Apoptosis is responsible for killing infected cells, cancerous cells, and cells that are simply in the wrong place during development. There are clear benefits to apoptosis, so the existence of apoptosis isn't a problem for evolutionary theory. The problem is that apoptosis seems to ramp up late in life and kill healthy cells, causing weakness and degeneration . And, paradoxically, apoptosis has been observed as a kind of 'altruistic suicide' in colonies of yeast under stress. This seems to be a direct hint that senescence arose because it conferred a direct evolutionary advantage, rather than some kind of side effect of genes that have other evolutionary advantages (pleiotropy).\n\nA second 'deliberate' mechanism is called \"replicative senescence\" or cellular senescence. Metaphorically, a cell may be said to 'count' (with its \"telomeres\") the number of times that it has divided, and after a set number of replications, it languishes and dies. It has been proposed that this mechanism evolved to suppress cancer. Many invertebrates experience replicative senescence, though they never die of cancer. Even one-celled organisms count replications, and will die if they don't replenish their telomeres with conjugation (sex).\n\nMore strictly, cells cannot 'count' the number of times they have divided . Telomeres are not a counting mechanism , though they may be used to indicate the number of times a particular chromosome has been replicated. Cellular processes for genetic material replication occur in both directions along DNA, 5' to 3' and on the other strand, 3' to 5'. As the 3' or 5' end is impossible for DNA polymerase to grab at the 1 base pair mark, a handful of basepairs (10-15) are cut off each replication. Over time, this cutting short of the DNA results in no telomeres, and the cell is unable to replicate that chromosome without cutting into genes.\n\nThe dilemma is that classical evolutionary theory says that what is maintained in a lineage is that which ensures the viability of an organism and its offspring. Ageing can only cut off an individual's capacity to reproduce. So, according to classical theory, ageing could \"only\" evolve as a side effect, or epiphenomenon of selection. The disposable soma theory and antagonistic pleiotropy theory are examples in which a compensating individual benefit, compatible with classical evolution theory (See neo-Darwinism) is proposed. Nevertheless, there is accumulated evidence that ageing looks like an adaptation in its own right, selected for its own sake.\n\nSemelparous organisms and others that die suddenly following reproduction (e.g. salmon, octopus, marsupial mouse (brown antechinus), etc.) also represent instances of organisms who incorporate a lifespan-limiting feature. Sudden death is more obviously an instance of programmed death or a purposeful adaptation than gradual ageing. Biological elements clearly associated with evolved mechanisms such as hormone signalling have been identified in the death mechanisms of organisms such as the octopus.\n\nAt the time most of the non-programmed ageing theories were developed, there was very little scientific disagreement with classical theories (i.e. Neo-Darwinism) regarding the process of evolution. However, in addition to suicidal behaviour of semelparous species (not handled by the classical ageing theories) other apparently individually adverse organism characteristics such as altruism and sexual reproduction were observed. In response to these \"other\" conflicts, adjustments to classical theory were proposed:\n\nGroup selection is often criticized to be too slow to happen in real biology. However, Jiang-Nan Yang recently showed with an individual-based model that the evolution of altruistic ageing occurs under fairly general conditions by kin/group selection. Group selection can be based on population viscosity (limited offspring dispersal, first proposed by Hamilton (1964) for kin selection) that is widely present in natural populations. This population structure builds a continuum between individual selection, kin selection, kin group selection and group selection without a clear boundary for each level. Although early theoretical models by D.S. Wilson et al. (1992) and Taylor (1992) showed that pure population viscosity cannot lead to cooperation/altruism because of the exact cancelling out of the benefit of kin cooperation and the cost of kin competition, this exact cancelling out also suggests that any additional benefit of local cooperation would be sufficient for the evolution of cooperation. Mitteldorf and D.S. Wilson (2000) later showed that if the population is allowed to fluctuate, then local populations can temporarily store the benefit of local cooperation and promote the evolution of altruism. By assuming individual differences in adaptations, Yang (2013) further showed that the benefit of local altruism can be stored in the form of offspring quality and thus promote the evolution of altruistic ageing even if the population does not fluctuate, this is because local competition among the young will result in an increased average local inherited fitness of survived progenies after the elimination of the less adapted by natural selection, since the young do not have strong age-associated abilities and have to depend more on inherited abilities to compete. In Yang (2013)'s model, altruistic ageing is stabilized by higher-level selection instead of just kin selection.\n\nMitteldorf proposed a group benefit of a limited lifespan involving regulation of population dynamics. Populations in nature are subject to boom and bust cycles. Often overpopulation can be punished by famine or by epidemic. Either one could wipe out an entire population. Senescence is a means by which a species can 'take control' of its own death rate, and level out the boom-bust cycles. This story may be more plausible than the Weismann hypothesis as a mechanistic explanation, because it addresses the question of how group selection can be rapid enough to compete with individual selection.\n\nLibertini also suggests benefits for adaptive ageing.\n\nInversely, within a \"Negative Senescence Theory\" R.D. Lee (similarly J.W. Vaupel) considered positive group effects performing a selection force directed to survival beyond the age of fertility. Often also postreproductive individuals make intergenerational transfers: bottlenose dolphins and pilot whales guard their grandchildren; there is cooperative breeding in some mammals, many insects and about 200 species of birds; sex differences in the survival of anthropoid primates tend to correlate with the care to offspring; or an Efe infant is often attended by more than 10 people. Lee developed a formal theory integrating selection due to transfers (at all ages) with selection due to fertility.\n\nGoldsmith proposed that in addition to increasing the generation rate, and thereby evolution rate, a limited lifespan improves the evolution process by limiting the ability of older individuals to dominate the gene pool. Further, the evolution of characteristics such as intelligence and immunity may specially require a limited lifespan because otherwise acquired characteristics such as experience or exposure to pathogens would tend to override the selection of the beneficial inheritable characteristic. An older and more experienced, but less intelligent animal would have a fitness advantage over a younger, more intelligent animal except for the effects of ageing.\n\nSkulachev has suggested that programmed ageing assists the evolution process by providing a gradually increasing challenge or obstacle to survival and reproduction, and therefore enhancing the selection of beneficial characteristics. In this sense, ageing would act in a manner similar to that of mating rituals that take the form of contests or trials that must be overcome in order to mate (another individually adverse observation). This suggests an advantage of gradual ageing over sudden death as a means of lifespan regulation.\n\nWeissmann's 1889 ageing theory was essentially an evolvability theory. Ageing or otherwise purposely limited lifespan helps evolution by freeing resources for younger, and therefore, presumably better-adapted individuals.\n\nYang (2013)'s model is also based on mechanisms of evolvability. Ageing accelerates the accumulation of novel adaptive genes in local populations. However, Yang changed the terminology of \"evolvability\" into \"genetic creativity\" throughout his paper to facilitate the understanding of how ageing can have a shorter-term benefit than the word \"evolvability\" would imply.\n\nLenart and Vašku (2016) have also invoked evolvability as the main mechanism driving evolution of aging. However, they proposed that even though the actual rate of aging can be an adaptation the aging itself is inevitable. In other words, evolution can change speed of aging but some aging no matter how slow will always occur.\n\nIf organisms purposely limit their lifespans via ageing or semelparous behaviour, the associated evolved mechanisms could be very complex, just as mechanisms that provide for mentation, vision, digestion, or other biological function are typically very complex. Such a mechanism could involve hormones, signalling, sensing of external conditions, and other complex functions typical of evolved mechanisms. Such complex mechanisms could explain all of the observations of ageing and semelparous behaviours as described below.\n\nIt is typical for a given biological function to be controlled by a single mechanism that is capable of sensing the germane conditions and then executing the necessary function . The mechanism signals all the systems and tissues that need to respond to that function by means of organism-wide signals (hormones). If ageing is indeed a biological function, we would expect all or most manifestations of ageing to be similarly controlled by a common mechanism. Various observations (listed below) indeed suggest the existence of a common control mechanism.\n\nIt is also typical for biological functions to be modulated by or synchronized to external events or conditions. The circadian rhythm and synchronization of mating behaviour to planetary cues are examples. In the case of ageing seen as a biological function, the caloric restriction effect may well be an example of the ageing function being modulated in order to optimize organism lifespan in response to external conditions. Temporary extension of lifespan under famine conditions would aid in group survival because extending lifespan, combined with less-frequent reproduction, would reduce the resources required to maintain a given population.\n\nTheories to the effect that ageing results by default (mutation accumulation) or is an adverse side effect of some other function are logically much more limited and suffer when compared to empirical evidence of complex mechanisms. The choice of ageing theory therefore is logically essentially determined by one's position regarding evolutionary processes, and some theorists reject programmed ageing based entirely on evolutionary process considerations.\n\nIt is generally accepted that deteriorative processes (wear, other molecular damage) exist and that living organisms have mechanisms to counter deterioration. Wounds heal; dead cells are replaced; claws regrow.\n\nA non-programmed theory of mammal ageing that fits with classical evolution theory and Medawar's concept is that different mammal species possess different capabilities for maintenance and repair. Longer-lived species possess many mechanisms for offsetting damage due to causes such as oxidation, telomere shortening, and other deteriorative processes that are each more effective than those of shorter-lived species. Shorter-lived species, having earlier ages of sexual maturity, had less need for longevity and thus did not evolve or retain the more-effective repair mechanisms. Damage therefore accumulates more rapidly, resulting in earlier manifestations and shorter lifespan. Since there are a wide variety of ageing manifestations that appear to have very different causes, it is likely that there are many different maintenance and repair functions.\n\nA corresponding programmed maintenance theory based on evolvability suggests that the repair mechanisms are in turn controlled by a common control mechanism capable of sensing conditions, such as caloric restriction, and also capable of producing the specific lifespan needed by the particular species. In this view, the differences between short- and long-lived species are in the control mechanisms, as opposed to each individual maintenance mechanism.\n\nThe DNA damage theory of aging is a prominent explanation for aging at the molecular level. This theory postulates that DNA damage is ubiquitous in the biological world and is the primary cause of aging. Consistent with this theory, genetic elements that regulate repair of DNA damage in somatic cells were proposed to have pleiotropic effects that are beneficial during early development but allow deleterious consequences later in life. As an example, studies of mammalian brain and muscle have shown that DNA repair capability is relatively high during early development when cells are dividing mitotically, but declines substantially as cells enter the post-mitotic state. The reduction in DNA repair capability presumably reflects an evolutionary adaptation for diverting resources from cell duplication and repair to more essential neuronal and muscular functions. The effect of reducing expression of DNA repair capability is to allow increased accumulation of DNA damage. This then impairs gene transcription and causes the progressive loss of cellular and tissue functions that define aging.\n\n\nContrary to the theory of programmed death by ageing, individuals from a single species usually live much longer in a protected (laboratory, domestic, civilized) environment than in their wild (natural) environment, reaching ages that would be otherwise practically impossible. Also, in the majority of species, there doesn't exist any critical age after which death rates change dramatically, as intended by the programmed death by ageing, but the age-dependence of death rates is very smooth and monotonic. However, as mentioned above, V.P. Skulachev explained that a process of gradual ageing has the advantage of facilitating selection for useful traits by allowing old individuals with a useful trait to live longer. It is also easy to imagine that animals with gradual ageing will live longer in a protected environment.\n\nThe death rates at extreme old ages start to slow down, which is the opposite of what would be expected if death by ageing was programmed. From an individual-selection point of view, having genes that would not result in a programmed death by ageing would displace genes that cause programmed death by ageing, as individuals would produce more offspring in their longer lifespan and they could increase the survival of their offspring by providing longer parental support.\n\nTheories of ageing affect efforts to understand and find treatments for age-related conditions (see biogerontology):\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23812132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23812132", "title": "Expediting", "text": "Expediting\n\nExpediting is a concept in purchasing and project management for securing the quality and timely delivery of goods and components.\n\nThe procurement department or an external expeditor controls the progress of manufacturing at the supplier concerning quality, packing, conformity with standards and set timelines. Thus the expeditor makes sure that the required goods arrive at the appointed date in the agreed quality at the agreed location.\n\nExpediting is especially needed in large scale projects, for example, when a ship building or a refinery is erected, because of a delay caused by late delivery or inferior quality will get very expensive and could lead to unsatisfied clients, thus the loss of a project. To save these unnecessary costs and minimize potential risks, the supplier and customer may agree on the use of a third party expeditor. These are experts from companies specializing in this field who keep track of the deadlines, supervise progress on site and check whether the components are properly packed. After inspection they notify the involved parties and banks about their findings; if everything is as agreed the bank will initiate the transfer of the price of the goods to the supplier. In this way, the supplier secures his liquidity as he is paid immediately when the components leave his factory (letter of credit) and the customer/bank knows that the goods will be delivered correctly.\nExpediting is relevant for many industries, such as the oil and gas industry, the general energy industry and the infrastructure industry.\n\nExpediting exists in several levels:\n\n\nAs the different levels of expediting require different skills, specialists and laboratories, many third party expeditors specialize in only one or several of these levels, while few offer expediting services on all levels.\n\nLarger companies normally have their own expeditors who can perform all four levels. Third parties then are only used when in-house capacity is overstretched or a neutral third party is needed. But In case of some big companies if the no. of project running same time, Big companies use third party expeditors also.\n\nMost of the time companies use third party inspector expeditors who are responsible for inspection of critical items as well as expediting. In strict quality control conditions, those quality inspector expeditors will give importance to quality work, rather than to expediting work, which may not be a useful technique to get expediting work completed.\n\nField expediting provides clients with a comprehensive review of the precise standing of their order and any on site action to rectify any potential problem areas. Field expediting means the inspection and control of the expeditor on site. This gives clients a comprehensive review of the exact current status of their order and an educated projection of the future planning and status. Furthermore, while being on site, experts for expediting can identify possible problems and bottlenecks that could lead to potential delays.\n\nDesk expediting is also known as telephone expediting. It is an important tool for producing companies to monitor order progress with manufacturers. Especially at milestone of a project, desk expediting can be helpful to check whether the project is still within the agreed schedule. Although desk expediting is a quick and easy way to be informed about the current status of a project, it should always be conducted in combination with field expediting to securely verify the actual status.\n\nDesk/Phone expediting provides a valuable tool for monitoring the progress of orders with a manufacturer. Contact is established at specific milestones within the order fabrication method and a brief outline of status standing obtained throughout the following conversation. associate experienced expeditor will very quickly assess whether the order is progressing consistent with plan or whether alternative measures are needed to verify and presumably improve the order progress. desk / phone expediting is best used as a tool to supplement field expediting. it's additionally a helpful approach of making the vendor aware that delays on the order won't be accepted by their shopper.\n\n"}
{"id": "35685954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35685954", "title": "Generalized distributive law", "text": "Generalized distributive law\n\nThe generalized distributive law (GDL) is a generalization of the distributive property which gives rise to a general message passing algorithm. It is a synthesis of the work of many authors in the information theory, digital communications, signal processing, statistics, and artificial intelligence communities. The law and algorithm were introduced in a semi-tutorial by Srinivas M. Aji and Robert J. McEliece with the same title.\n\n\"The distributive law in mathematics is the law relating the operations of multiplication and addition, stated symbolically, formula_1; that is, the monomial factor formula_2 is distributed, or separately applied, to each term of the binomial factor formula_3, resulting in the product formula_4\" - Britannica\n\nAs it can be observed from the definition, application of distributive law to an arithmetic expression reduces the number of operations in it. In the previous example the total number of operations reduced from three (two multiplications and an addition in formula_4) to two (one multiplication and one addition in formula_6). Generalization of distributive law leads to a large family of fast algorithms. This includes the FFT and Viterbi algorithm.\n\nThis is explained in a more formal way in the example below:\n\nformula_7 where formula_8 and formula_9 are real-valued functions, formula_10 and formula_11 (say)\n\nHere we are \"marginalizing out\" the independent variables (formula_12, formula_13, and formula_14) to obtain the result. When we are calculating the computational complexity, we can see that for each formula_15 pairs of formula_16, there are formula_17 terms due to the triplet formula_18 which needs to take part in the evaluation of formula_19 with each step having one addition and one multiplication. Therefore, the total number of computations needed is formula_20. Hence the asymptotic complexity of the above function is formula_21.\n\nIf we apply the distributive law to the RHS of the equation, we get the following:\n\nThis implies that formula_23 can be described as a product formula_24 where formula_25 and formula_26\n\nNow, when we are calculating the computational complexity, we can see that there are formula_17 additions in formula_28 and formula_29 each and there are formula_30 multiplications when we are using the product formula_24 to evaluate formula_23. Therefore, the total number of computations needed is formula_33. Hence the asymptotic complexity of calculating formula_34 reduces to formula_35 from formula_36. This shows by an example that applying distributive law reduces the computational complexity which is one of the good features of a \"fast algorithm\".\n\nSome of the problems that used distributive law to solve can be grouped as follows\n\n1. Decoding algorithms<br>\nA GDL like algorithm was used by Gallager's for decoding low density parity-check codes. Based on Gallager's work Tanner introduced the Tanner graph and expressed Gallagers work in message passing form. The tanners graph also helped explain the Viterbi algorithm.\n\nIt is observed by Forney that Viterbi's maximum likelihood decoding of convolutional codes also used algorithms of GDL-like generality.\n\n2. Forward-backward algorithm<br>\nThe forward backward algorithm helped as an algorithm for tracking the states in the markov chain. And this also was used the algorithm of GDL like generality\n\n3. Artificial intelligence<br>\nThe notion of junction trees has been used to solve many problems in AI. Also the concept of bucket elimination used many of the concepts.\n\nMPF or marginalize a product function is a general computational problem which as special case includes many classical problems such as computation of discrete Hadamard transform, maximum likelihood decoding of a linear code over a memory-less channel, and matrix chain multiplication. The power of the GDL lies in the fact that it applies to situations in which additions and multiplications are generalized.\nA commutative semiring is a good framework for explaining this behavior. It is defined over a set formula_37 with operators \"formula_38\" and \"formula_39\" where formula_40 and formula_41 are a commutative monoids and the distributive law holds.\n\nLet formula_42 be variables such that formula_43 where formula_44 is a finite set and formula_45. Here formula_46. If formula_47 and formula_48, let\nformula_49,\nformula_50, \nformula_51, \nformula_52, and\nformula_53\n\nLet formula_54 where formula_55. Suppose a function is defined as formula_56, where formula_57 is a commutative semiring. Also, formula_58 are named the \"local domains\" and formula_59 as the \"local kernels\".\n\nNow the global kernel formula_60 is defined as :\nformula_61\n\n\"Definition of MPF problem\": For one or more indices formula_62, compute a table of the values of formula_63-\"marginalization\" of the global kernel formula_64, which is the function formula_65 defined as formula_66\n\nHere formula_67 is the complement of formula_63 with respect to formula_69 and the formula_70 is called the formula_71 \"objective function\", or the \"objective function\" at formula_72. It can observed that the computation of the formula_71 objective function in the obvious way needs formula_74 operations. This is because there are formula_75 additions and formula_76 multiplications needed in the computation of the formula_77 objective function. The GDL algorithm which is explained in the next section can reduce this computational complexity.\n\nThe following is an example of the MPF problem. \nLet formula_78 and formula_79 be variables such that formula_80 and formula_81. Here formula_82 and formula_83. The given functions using these variables are formula_84 and formula_85 and we need to calculate formula_86 and formula_87 defined as:\n\nHere local domains and local kernels are defined as follows: \nwhere formula_90 is the formula_91 objective function and formula_87 is the formula_93 objective function.\n\nLet us consider another example where formula_94 and formula_95 is a real valued function. Now, we shall consider the MPF problem where the commutative semiring is defined as the set of real numbers with ordinary addition and multiplication and the local domains and local kernels are defined as follows:\n\nNow since the global kernel is defined as the product of the local kernels, it is\n\nand the objective function at the local domain formula_97 is\n\nThis is the Hadamard transform of the function formula_8. Hence we can see that the computation of Hadamard transform is a special case of the MPF problem. More examples can be demonstrated to prove that the MPF problem forms special cases of many classical problem as explained above whose details can be found at\n\nIf one can find a relationship among the elements of a given set formula_100, then one can solve the MPF problem basing on the notion of belief propagation which is a special use of \"message passing\" technique. The required relationship is that the given set of local domains can be organised into a junction tree. In other words, we create a graph theoretic tree with the elements of formula_100 as the vertices of the tree formula_102, such that for any two arbitrary vertices say formula_103 and formula_104 where formula_105 and there exists an edge between these two vertices, then the intersection of corresponding labels, viz formula_106, is a subset of the label on each vertex on the unique path from formula_103 to formula_104.\n\nFor example,\n\nExample 1: Consider the following nine local domains:\n\n\nFor the above given set of local domains, one can organize them into a junction tree as shown below:\n\nSimilarly If another set like the following is given\n\nExample 2: Consider the following four local domains:\n\n\nThen constructing the tree only with these local domains is not possible since this set of values has no common domains which can be placed between any two values of the above set. But however if add the two dummy domains as shown below then organizing the updated set into a junction tree would be possible and easy too.\n\n5.formula_122,formula_123\n6.formula_124,formula_123\n\nSimilarly for these set of domains, the junction tree looks like shown below:\nInput: A set of local domains.\nOutput: For the given set of domains, possible minimum number of operations that is required to solve the problem is computed. \nSo, if formula_103 and formula_104 are connected by an edge in the junction tree, then a message from formula_103 to formula_104 is a set/table of values given by a function: formula_130:formula_131. To begin with all the functions i.e. for all combinations of formula_132 and formula_133 in the given tree, formula_130 is defined to be identically formula_135 and when a particular message is update, it follows the equation given below.\n\nwhere formula_138 means that formula_139 is an adjacent vertex to formula_103 in tree.\n\nSimilarly each vertex has a state which is defined as a table containing the values from the function formula_141, Just like how messages initialize to 1 identically, state of formula_103 is defined to be local kernel formula_143, but whenever formula_144 gets updated, it follows the following equation:\n\nFor the given set of local domains as input, we find out if we can create a junction tree, either by using the set directly or by adding dummy domains to the set first and then creating the junction tree, if construction junction is not possible then algorithm output that there is no way to reduce the number of steps to compute the given equation problem, but once we have junction tree, algorithm will have to schedule messages and compute states, by doing these we can know where steps can be reduced, hence will be discusses this below.\n\nThere are two special cases we are going to talk about here namely \"Single Vertex Problem\" in which the objective function is computed at only one vertex formula_146 and the second one is \"All Vertices Problem\" where the goal is to compute the objective function at all vertices.\n\nLets begin with the single-vertex problem, GDL will start by directing each edge towards the targeted vertex formula_147. Here messages are sent only in the direction towards the targeted vertex. Note that all the directed messages are sent only once. The messages are started from the leaf nodes(where the degree is 1) go up towards the target vertex formula_147. The message travels from the leaves to its parents and then from there to their parents and so on until it reaches the target vertex formula_147. The target vertex formula_147 will compute its state only when it receives all messages from all its neighbors. Once we have the state, We have got the answer and hence the algorithm terminates.\n\nFor Example, Lets consider a junction tree constructed from the set of local domains given above i.e. the set from example 1, Now the Scheduling table for these domains is (where the target vertex is formula_151).\n\nformula_152\nformula_153\nformula_154\nformula_155\nformula_156\nformula_157\nformula_158\nformula_159\nformula_160\nformula_161\n\nThus the complexity for Single Vertex GDL can be shown as\n\nformula_162 arithmetic operations\nWhere (Note: The explanation for the above equation is explained later in the article )\nformula_163 is the label of formula_164.\nformula_165 is the degree of formula_164 (i.e. number of vertices adjacent to v).\n\nTo solve the All-Vertices problem, we can schedule GDL in several ways, some of them are parallel implementation where in each round, every state is updated and every message is computed and transmitted at the same time. In this type of implementation the states and messages will stabilizes after number of rounds that is at most equal to the diameter of the tree. At this point all the all states of the vertices will be equal to the desired objective function.\n\nAnother way to schedule GDL for this problem is serial implementation where its similar to the Single vertex problem except that we don't stop the algorithm until all the vertices of a required set have not got all the messages from all their neighbors and have compute their state. \nThus the number of arithmetic this implementation requires is at most formula_167 arithmetic operations.\n\nThe key to constructing a junction tree lies in the local domain graph formula_168, which is a weighted complete graph with formula_169 vertices formula_170 i.e. one for each local domain, having the weight of the edge formula_171 defined by\nformula_172.\nif formula_173, then we say formula_174 is contained informula_175. Denoted by formula_176 (the weight of a maximal-weight spanning tree of formula_168), which is defined by\n\nwhere \"n\" is the number of elements in that set. For more clarity and details, please refer to these.\n\nLet formula_179 be a junction tree with vertex set formula_180 and edge set formula_181. In this algorithm, the messages are sent in both the direction on any edge, so we can say/regard the edge set E as set of ordered pairs of vertices. For example, from Figure 1 formula_181 can be defined as follows\n\nNOTE:formula_184 above gives you all the possible directions that a message can travel in the tree.\n\nThe schedule for the GDL is defined as a finite sequence of subsets offormula_184. Which is generally represented by \nformula_186{formula_187}, Where formula_188 is the set of messages updated during the formula_189 round of running the algorithm.\n\nHaving defined/seen some notations, we will see want the theorem says,\nWhen we are given a schedule formula_190, the corresponding message trellis as a finite directed graph with Vertex set of formula_191, in which a typical element is denoted by formula_192 for formula_193, Then after completion of the message passing, state at vertex formula_104 will be the formula_195 objective defined in\n\nand <nowiki>iff</nowiki> there is a path from formula_197 to formula_198\n\nHere we try to explain the complexity of solving the MPF problem in terms of the number of mathematical operations required for the calculation. i.e. We compare the number of operations required when calculated using the normal method (Here by normal method we mean by methods that do not use message passing or junction trees in short methods that do not use the concepts of GDL)and the number of operations using the generalized distributive law.\n\nExample: Let us consider the simplest case where we need to compute the following expression formula_199.\n\nTo evaluate this expression naively requires two multiplications and one addition. The expression when expressed using the distributive law can be written as formula_200 a simple optimization that reduces the number of operations to one addition and one multiplication.\n\nSimilar to the above explained example we will be expressing the equations in different forms to perform as few operation as possible by applying the GDL.\n\nAs explained in the previous sections we solve the problem by using the concept of the junction trees. The optimization obtained by the use of these trees is comparable to the optimization obtained by solving a semi group problem on trees. For example, to find the minimum of a group of numbers we can observe that if we have a tree and the elements are all at the bottom of the tree, then we can compare the minimum of two items in parallel and the resultant minimum will be written to the parent. When this process is propagated up the tree the minimum of the group of elements will be found at the root.\n\nThe following is the complexity for solving the junction tree using message passing\n\nWe rewrite the formula used earlier to the following form. This is the eqn for a message to be sent from vertex \"v\" to \"w\"\n\nSimilarly we rewrite the equation for calculating the state of vertex v as follows\n\nWe first will analyze for the single-vertex problem and assume the target vertex is formula_147 and hence we have one edge from formula_164 to formula_205. \nSuppose we have an edge formula_206 we calculate the message using the message equation. To calculate formula_207 requires\n\nadditions and\n\nmultiplications.\n\nBut there will be many possibilities for formula_212 hence \nformula_213 possibilities for formula_214.\nThus the entire message will need\n\nadditions and\n\nmultiplications\n\nThe total number of arithmetic operations required to send a message towards formula_217along the edges of tree will be\n\nadditions and\n\nmultiplications.\n\nOnce all the messages have been transmitted the algorithm terminates with the computation of state at formula_147 The state computation requires formula_221 more multiplications.\nThus number of calculations required to calculate the state is given as below\n\nadditions and\n\nmultiplications\n\nThus the grand total of the number of calculations is\n\nwhere formula_226 is an edge and its size is defined by formula_227\n\nThe formula above gives us the upper bound.\n\nIf we define the complexity of the edge formula_226 as\n\nTherefore, formula_225 can be written as\n\nWe now calculate the edge complexity for the problem defined in Figure 1 as follows\n\nThe total complexity will be formula_240 which is considerably low compared to the direct method. (Here by direct method we mean by methods that do not use message passing. The time taken using the direct method will be the equivalent to calculating message at each node and time to calculate the state of each of the nodes.)\n\nNow we consider the all-vertex problem where the message will have to be sent in both the directions and state must be computed at both the vertexes. This would take formula_241 but by precomputing we can reduce the number of multiplications to formula_242. Here formula_13 is the degree of the vertex. Ex : If there is a set formula_244 with formula_245 numbers. It is possible to compute all the d products of formula_246 of the formula_247 with at most formula_242 multiplications rather than the obvious formula_249. \nWe do this by precomputing the quantities \nformula_250 and formula_251 this takes formula_252 multiplications. Then if formula_253 denotes the product of all formula_254 except for formula_255 we have formula_256 and so on will need another formula_257 multiplications making the total formula_258\n\nThere is not much we can do when it comes to the construction of the junction tree except that we may have many maximal weight spanning tree and we should choose the spanning tree with the least formula_259 and sometimes this might mean adding a local domain to lower the junction tree complexity.\n\nIt may seem that GDL is correct only when the local domains can be expressed as a junction tree. But even in cases where there are cycles and a number of iterations the messages will approximately be equal to the objective function. The experiments on Gallager–Tanner–Wiberg algorithm for low density parity-check codes were supportive of this claim.\n"}
{"id": "50591385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50591385", "title": "Genotyping by sequencing", "text": "Genotyping by sequencing\n\nIn the field of genetic sequencing, genotyping by sequencing, also called GBS, is a method to discover single nucleotide polymorphisms (SNP) in order to perform genotyping studies, such as genome-wide association studies (GWAS). GBS uses restriction enzymes to reduce genome complexity and genotype multiple DNA samples. After digestion, PCR is performed to increase fragments pool and then GBS libraries are sequenced using next generation sequencing technologies, usually resulting in about 100bp single-end reads. It is relatively inexpensive and has been used in plant breeding. Although GBS presents an approach similar to restriction-site-associated DNA sequencing (RAD-seq) method, they differ in some substantial ways.\n\nGBS is a robust, simple, and affordable procedure for SNP discovery and mapping. Overall, this approach reduces genome complexity with restriction enzymes (REs) in high-diversity, large genomes species for efficient high-throughput, highly multiplexed sequencing. By using appropriate REs, repetitive regions of genomes can be avoided and lower copy regions can be targeted, which reduces alignments problems in genetically highly diverse species. The method was first described by Elshire et al. (2011). In summary, high molecular weight DNAs are extracted and digested using a specific RE previously defined by cutting frequently in the major repetitive fraction of the genome. \"ApeKI\" is the most used RE. Barcode adapters are then ligated to sticky ends and PCR amplification is performed. Next-generation sequencing technology is performed resulting in about 100 bp single-end reads. Raw sequence data are filtered and aligned to a reference genome using usually Burrows-Wheeler alignment tool (BWA) or Bowtie 2. The next step is to identify SNPs from aligned tags and score all discovered SNPs for various coverage, depth and genotypic statistics. Once a large-scale, species-wide SNP production has been run, it is possible to quickly call known SNPs in newly sequenced samples.\n\nWhen initially developed, the GBS approach was tested and validated in recombinant inbred lines (RILs) from a high-resolution maize mapping population (IBM) and doubled haploid (DH) barley lines from the Oregon Wolfe Barley (OWB) mapping population. Up to 96 RE (ApeKI)-digested DNA samples were pooled and processed simultaneously during the GBS library construction, which was checked on a Genome Analyzer II (Illumina, Inc.). Overall, 25,185 biallelic tags were mapped in maize, while 24,186 sequence tags were mapped in barley. Barley GBS marker validation using a single DH line (OWB003) showed 99% agreement between the reference markers and the mapped GBS reads. Although barley lacks a complete genome sequence, GBS does not require a reference genome for sequence tag mapping, the reference is developed during the process of sampling genotyping. Tags can also be treated as dominant markers for alternative genetic analysis in the absence of a reference genome. Other than the multiplex GBS skimming, imputation of missing SNPs has the potential to further reduce GBS costs. GBS is a versatile and cost-effective procedure that will allow mining genomes of any species without prior knowledge of its genome structure. \n"}
{"id": "41443948", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41443948", "title": "Georg Seelig", "text": "Georg Seelig\n\nGeorg Seelig is a Swiss computer scientist, bioengineer, and Synthetic biologist. He is an Associate Professor of Electrical Engineering and Computer Science & Engineering at the University of Washington. He is a researcher in the field of DNA nanotechnology.\n\nHe graduated from University of Basel with a Diploma in Physics in 1998 and did his PhD on condensed matter Physics from University of Geneva in 2003. He was a post doctoral associate in the lab of Professor Erik Winfree at California Institute of Technology between 2003 and 2009 \n. He has won the prestigious NSF CAREER award in 2010, the Alfred P. Sloan Research Fellowship in 2011, and the DARPA Young Faculty Award in 2012. He is a part of the Molecular Programming Project.\n"}
{"id": "12455192", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12455192", "title": "George Griswold", "text": "George Griswold\n\nGeorge R. Griswold (December 31, 1794 – April 5, 1857) was an American politician and tenth Lieutenant Governor from the U. S. state of Michigan.\n\nGriswold was born in the U.S. state of New York and later moved to Detroit, Michigan and practiced law.\n\nGriswold served as clerk of the first Michigan House of Representatives in 1835. He was register of deeds from 1837 to 1841 and clerk of Wayne County from 1843 to 1847. In 1839 he became owner and publisher of the Detroit \"Morning Post\", and he became State Printer. He later served in the Michigan Senate from Detroit (1st District) from 1848 until 1849 and again in 1853 when he served as president pro tempore.\nOn March 8, 1853, Michigan Governor Robert McClelland resigned to become Secretary of the Interior under Franklin Pierce. As a result, Lieutenant Governor Andrew Parsons became Governor and Griswold became the tenth Lieutenant Governor and served from 1853 to 1854. On September 16 of that year he was appointed a purser in the U. S. Navy. He served as acting lieutenant governor until George Coe was elected and then took his place in January 1855.\n\nGriswold died on board the USS \"Dolphin\" off the African coast just over two years after leaving office.\n\n"}
{"id": "14080493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14080493", "title": "Grafting", "text": "Grafting\n\nGrafting or graftage is a horticultural technique whereby tissues of plants are joined so as to continue their growth together. The upper part of the combined plant is called the scion () while the lower part is called the rootstock. The success of this joining requires that the vascular tissue grow together and such joining is called inosculation. The technique is most commonly used in asexual propagation of commercially grown plants for the horticultural and agricultural trades.\n\nIn most cases, one plant is selected for its roots and this is called the stock or rootstock. The other plant is selected for its stems, leaves, flowers, or fruits and is called the scion or cion. The scion contains the desired genes to be duplicated in future production by the stock/scion plant.\n\nIn stem grafting, a common grafting method, a shoot of a selected, desired plant cultivar is grafted onto the stock of another type. In another common form called bud grafting, a dormant side bud is grafted onto the stem of another stock plant, and when it has inosculated successfully, it is encouraged to grow by pruning off the stem of the stock plant just above the newly grafted bud.\n\nFor successful grafting to take place, the vascular cambium tissues of the stock and scion plants must be placed in contact with each other. Both tissues must be kept alive until the graft has \"taken\", usually a period of a few weeks. Successful grafting only requires that a vascular connection take place between the grafted tissues. Joints formed by grafting are not as strong as naturally formed joints, so a physical weak point often still occurs at the graft because only the newly formed tissues inosculate with each other. The existing structural tissue (or wood) of the stock plant does not fuse.\n\n\n\n\nApproach grafting or inarching is used to join together plants that are otherwise difficult to join. The plants are grown close together, and then joined so that each plant has roots below and growth above the point of union. Both scion and stock retain their respective parents that may or may not be removed after joining. Also used in pleaching. The graft can be successfully accomplished any time of year.\n\nBud grafting (also called chip budding) uses a bud instead of a twig. Grafting roses is the most common example of bud grafting. In this method a bud is removed from the parent plant, and the base of the bud is inserted beneath the bark of the stem of the stock plant from which the rest of the shoot has been cut. Any extra bud that starts growing from the stem of the stock plant is removed. Examples: roses and fruit trees like peaches.\n\nBudwood is a stick with several buds on it that can be cut out and used for bud grafting. It is a common method of propagation for citrus trees.\n\nIn cleft grafting a small cut is made in the stalk and then the pointed end of the scion is inserted in the stalk. This is best done in the spring and is useful for joining a thin scion about diameter to a thicker branch or stock. It is best if the latter is in diameter and has 3–5 buds. The branch or stock should be split carefully down the middle to form a cleft about deep. If it is a branch that is not vertical then the cleft should be cut horizontally. The end of the scion should be cut cleanly to a long shallow wedge, preferably with a single cut for each wedge surface, and not whittled. A third cut may be made across the end of the wedge to make it straight across.\n\nSlide the wedge into the cleft so that it is at the edge of the stock and the centre of the wedge faces are against the cambium layer between the bark and the wood. It is preferable if a second scion is inserted in a similar way into the other side of the cleft. This helps to seal off the cleft. Tape around the top of the stock to hold the scion in place and cover with grafting wax or sealing compound. This stops the cambium layers from drying out and also prevents the ingress of water into the cleft.\n\nIn whip grafting the scion and the stock are cut slanting and then joined. The grafted point is then bound with tape and covered with soft wax to prevent dehydration and infection by germs. Also known as the whip and tongue graft, this is considered the most difficult to master but has the highest rate of success as it offers the most cambium contact between the scion and the stock. It is the most common graft used in top-dressing commercial fruit trees. It is generally used with stock less than diameter, with the ideal diameter closer to and the scion should be of roughly the same diameter as the stock.\n\nThe stock is cut through on one side only at a shallow angle with a sharp knife. (If the stock is a branch and not the main trunk of the rootstock then the cut surface should face outward from the centre of the tree.) The scion is similarly sliced through at an equal angle starting just below a bud, so that the bud is at the top of the cut and on the other side than the cut face.\n\nA notch is cut downwards into the sliced face of the stock and a similar cut upwards into the face of the scion cut. These act as the tongues and it requires some skill to make the cuts so that the scion and the stock marry up neatly. The joint is then taped around and treated with tree-sealing compound or grafting wax.\n\nThe elongated \"Z\" shape adds strength, removing the need for a companion rod in the first season (see illustration).\n\nStub grafting is a technique that requires less stock than cleft grafting, and retains the shape of a tree. Also scions are generally of 6-8 buds in this process.\n\nAn incision is made into the branch long, then the scion is wedged and forced into the branch. The scion should be at an angle of at most 35° to the parent tree so that the crotch remains strong. The graft is covered with grafting compound.\n\nAfter the graft has taken, the branch is removed and treated a few centimeters above the graft, to be fully removed when the graft is strong.\n\nThe four-flap graft (also called banana graft) is commonly used for pecans, and first became popular with this species in Oklahoma in 1975. It is heralded for maximum cambium overlap, but is a complex graft. It requires similarly sized diameters for the rootstock and scion. The bark of the rootstock is sliced and peeled back in four flaps, and the hardwood is removed, looking somewhat like a peeled banana. It is a difficult graft to learn.\n\nAwl grafting takes the least resources and the least time. It is best done by an experienced grafter, as it is possible to accidentally drive the tool too far into the stock, reducing the scion's chance of survival. Awl grafting can be done by using a screwdriver to make a slit in the bark, not penetrating the cambium layer completely. Then inset the wedged scion into the incision.\n\nVeneer grafting, or inlay grafting, is a method used for stock larger than in diameter. The scion is recommended to be about as thick as a pencil. Clefts are made of the same size as the scion on the side of the branch, not on top. The scion end is shaped as a wedge, inserted, and wrapped with tape to the scaffolding branches to give it more strength.\n\nTree branches and more often roots of the same species will sometimes naturally graft; this is called inosculation. The bark of the tree may be stripped away when the roots make physical contact with each other, exposing the vascular cambium and allowing the roots to graft together. A group of trees can share water and mineral nutrients via root grafts, which may be advantageous to weaker trees, and may also form a larger rootmass as an adaptation to promote fire resistance and regeneration as exemplified by the California black oak (\"Quercus kelloggii\"). Additionally, grafting may protect the group from wind damages as a result of the increased mechanical stability provided by the grafting. Albino redwoods use root grafting as a form of plant parasitism of normal redwoods.\n\nA problem with root grafts is that they allow transmission of certain pathogens, such as Dutch elm disease. Inosculation also sometimes occurs where two stems on the same tree, shrub or vine make contact with each other. This is common in plants such as strawberries and potato.\n\nNatural grafting is rarely seen in herbaceous plants as those types of plants generally have short-lived roots with little to no secondary growth in the vascular cambium.\n\nOccasionally, a so-called \"graft hybrid\" or more accurately graft chimera can occur where the tissues of the stock continue to grow within the scion. Such a plant can produce flowers and foliage typical of both plants as well as shoots intermediate between the two. The best-known example this is probably +\"Laburnocytisus\" 'Adamii', a graft hybrid between \"Laburnum\" and \"Cytisus\", which originated in a nursery near Paris, France in 1825. This small tree bears yellow flowers typical of \"Laburnum anagyroides\", purple flowers typical of \"Cytisus purpureus\" and curious coppery-pink flowers that show characteristics of both \"parents\". Many species of cactus can also produce graft chimeras under the right conditions although they are often created unintentionally and such results are often hard to replicate.\n\nGrafting has been important in flowering research. Leaves or shoots from plants induced to flower can be grafted onto uninduced plants and transmit a floral stimulus that induces them to flower.\n\nThe transmission of plant viruses has been studied using grafting. Virus indexing involves grafting a symptomless plant that is suspected of carrying a virus onto an indicator plant that is very susceptible to the virus.\n\nGrafting can transfer chloroplasts (specialised DNA in plants that can conduct photosynthesis), mitochondrial DNA and the entire cell nucleus containing the genome to potentially make a new species making grafting a form of natural genetic engineering.\n\nWhite spruce can be grafted with consistent success by using scions of current growth on thrifty 4- to 5-year-old rootstock (Nienstaedt and Teich 1972). Before greenhouse grafting, rootstocks should be potted in late spring, allowed to make seasonal growth, then subjected to a period of chilling outdoors, or for about 8 weeks in a cool room at 2 °C (Nienstaedt 1966).\n\nA method of grafting white spruce of seed-bearing age during the time of seed harvest in the fall was developed by Nienstaedt et al. (1958). Scions of white spruce of 2 ages of wood from 30- to 60-year-old trees were collected in the fall and grafted by 3 methods on potted stock to which different day-length treatments had been applied prior to grafting. The grafted stock were given long-day and natural-day treatments. Survival was 70% to 100% and showed effects of rootstock and post-grafting treatments in only a few cases. Photoperiod and temperature treatments after grafting, however, had considerable effect on scion activity and total growth. The best post-grafting treatment was 4 weeks of long-day treatment followed by 2 weeks of short-day treatment, then 8 weeks of chilling, and finally long-day treatment.\n\nSince grafts of white spruce put on relatively little growth in the 2 years after grafting, techniques for accelerating the early growth were studied by Greenwood (1988) and others. The cultural regimes used to promote one additional growth cycle in one year involve manipulation of day length and the use of cold storage to satisfy chilling requirements. Greenwood took dormant potted grafts into the greenhouse in early January then gradually raised the temperature during the course of a week until the minimum temperature rose to 15 °C. Photoperiod was increased to 18 hours using incandescent lighting. In this technique, grafts are grown until elongation has been completed, normally by mid-March. Soluble 10-52-10 fertilizer is applied at both ends of the growth cycle and 20-20-20 during the cycle, with irrigation as needed. When growth elongation is complete, day length is reduced to 8 hours using a blackout curtain. Budset follows, and the grafts are held in the greenhouse until mid-May. Grafts are then moved into a cooler at 4 °C for 1000 hours, after which they are moved to a shade frame where they grow normally, with applications of fertilizer and irrigation as in the first cycle. Grafts are moved into cold frames or unheated greenhouse in September until January. Flower induction treatments are begun on grafts that have reached a minimum length of 1.0 m. Repotting from an initial pot size of 4.5 litre to 16 litre containers with a 2:1:1 soil mix of peat moss, loam, and aggregate.\n\nIn one of the first accelerated growth experiments, white spruce grafts made in January and February that would normally elongate shortly after grafting, set bud, and remain in that condition until the following spring, were refrigerated for 500, 1000, or 1500 hours beginning in mid-July, and a non-refrigerated control was held in the nursery. After completion of the cold treatment, the grafts were moved into the greenhouse with an 18-hour photoperiod until late October. Height increment was significantly (P 0.01) influenced by cold treatment. Best results were given by the 1000-hour treatment.\n\nThe refrigeration (cold treatment) phase was subsequently shown to be effective when applied 2 months earlier with proper handling and use of blackout curtains, which allows the second growth cycle to be completed in time to satisfy dormancy requirements before January (Greenwood et al. 1988).\n\nGrafting is often done for non-woody and vegetable plants (tomato, cucumber, eggplant and watermelon). Tomato grafting is very popular in Asia and Europe, and is gaining popularity in the United States. The main advantage of grafting is for disease-resistant rootstocks. Researchers in Japan developed automated processes using grafting robots as early as 1987. Plastic tubing can be used to prevent desiccation and support the healing at the graft/scion interface.\n\nAs humans began to domesticate plants and animals, horticultural techniques that could reliably propagate the desired qualities of long-lived woody plants needed to be developed. Although grafting isn't specifically mentioned in the Hebrew Bible, it is claimed that ancient Biblical text hints at the practice of grafting. For example, Leviticus 19:19, which dates to around 1400 BCE, states \" \"[the Hebrew people] shalt not sow their field with mingled seed...\" \"(King James Bible) Some scholars believe the phrase mingled seeds includes grafting, although this interpretation remains contentious among scholars.\n\nGrafting is also mentioned in the New Testament. In Romans 11, starting at verse 17, there is a discussion about the grafting of wild olive trees concerning the relationship between Jews and Gentiles.\n\nBy 500 BCE grafting was well established and practiced in the region as the Mishna describes grafting as a commonplace technique used to grow grapevines.\n\nAccording to recent research: \"grafting technology had been practiced in China before 2000 BC\". Additional evidence for grafting in China is found in Jia Sixie's 6th century CE agricultural treatise \"Qimin Yaoshu (Essential Skills for the Common People)\". It discusses grafting pear twigs onto crab apple, jujube and pomegranate stock (domesticated apples had not yet arrived in China), as well as grafting persimmons. The \"Qimin yaoshu\" refers to older texts that referred to grafting, but those works are missing. Nonetheless, given the sophistication of the methods discussed, and the long history of arboriculture in the region, grafting must have already been practiced for centuries by this time.\n\nIn Greece, a medical record written in 424 BCE contains the first direct reference to grafting. The title of the work is \"On the Nature of the Child\" and is thought to be written by a follower of Hippocrates. The language of the author suggests that grafting appeared centuries before this period.\n\nIn Rome, Marcus Porcius Cato wrote the oldest surviving Latin text in 160 BCE. The book is called \"De Agri Cultura (On Farming Agriculture)\" and outlines several grafting methods. Other authors in the region would write about grafting in the following years, however, the publications often featured fallacious scion-stock combinations.\n\nDuring the European Dark Ages, Arabic regions were experiencing an Islamic Golden Age of scientific, technological, and cultural advancement. Creating lavishly flourished gardens would be a common form of competition among Islamic leaders at the time. Because the region would receive an influx of foreign ornamentals to decorate these gardens, grafting was used much during this period.\n\nAfter the fall of the Roman Empire, grafting survived in the Christian monasteries of Europe until it regained popular appeal during the Renaissance. The invention of the printing press inspired a number of authors to publish books on gardening that included information on grafting. One example, \"A New Orchard and Garden: Or, the Best Way for Planting, Graffing, and to Make Any Ground Good for a Rich Orchard, Particularly in the North\", was written by William Lawson in 1618. While the book contains practical grafting techniques, some even still used today, it suffers from exaggerated claims of scion-stock compatibility typical of this period.\n\nWhile grafting continued to grow in Europe during the eighteenth century, it was considered unnecessary in the United States as the produce from fruit trees was largely used either to make cider or feed hogs.\n\nBeginning in 1864, without warning grapevines across France began to sharply decline. Thanks to the efforts of scientists such as C. V. Riley and J. E. Planchon, the culprit was identified to be phylloxera, an insect that infests the roots of vines and causes fungal infections. Initially, farmers unsuccessfully attempted to contain the pest by removing and burning affected vines. When it was discovered that phylloxera was an invasive species introduced from North America, some suggested importing rootstock from the region as the North American vines were resistant to the pest. Others, opposed to the idea, argued that American rootstocks would imbue the French grapes with an undesirable taste; they instead preferred to inject the soil with expensive pesticides. Ultimately, grafting American rootstock onto French vines became prevalent throughout the region, creating new grafting techniques and machines. American rootstocks had trouble adapting to the high soil pH value of some regions in France so the final solution to the pandemic was to hybridize the American and French variants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38896681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38896681", "title": "Hugh Gibb", "text": "Hugh Gibb\n\nHugh Leslie Gibb (15 January 1916 – 6 March 1992) was an English drummer and bandleader and the father of English musicians Barry, Robin, Maurice and Andy Gibb. Barry, Robin and Maurice would go on to success as the Bee Gees, one of the most successful musical groups in the 1960s and 1970s, while Andy would have several hits as a solo performer.\n\nHugh Leslie Gibb was born in Chorlton district in Manchester to Hugh Gibb and Edith Yardley. He said: \"I was the oddball in my family 'cause I liked music and the attitude was that it would never do you any good. The main theme then was go to work, have a steady job, and bring your wages home every weekend. A side track from that wasn't right in their eyes. To be a musician was like the old days, you know, when they were considered vagabonds, and that's all I ever wanted to do.\"\n\nGibb's father was born in Lanarkshire, Scotland in 1876. His mother was born in Manchester in 1892 to William and Hannah. She was 16 years younger than her husband and became step-mother to his seven children he had from his previous marriage, to Annie, who had died in 1889 at the age of 38. Gibb's grandfather, Thomas Yardley, was born in 1826 and is recorded as a railway worker.\n\nBarbara Pass was a dance band vocalist and one of her nights off she went with a friend to another dance hall and she said: \"that's where it all started\". Hugh escorted Barbara home that night and thereafter romance blossomed. Despite the nightmare of the war, Hugh has fond memories of the time he met his future wife, as he said: \"People enjoyed themselves more. Kids today, think they've done everything by the time they're 18 and have nothing to look forward to. They were married on 27 May 1944 in Manchester. Their first child, Lesley Gibb, was born on 12 January 1945. Shortly afterwards, they moved to Scotland, where his band was starting to play in Edinburgh; as Barbara explained: \"We lived just at the outskirts of Edinburgh\". After a while, Hugh and Barbara with Lesley moved back to Manchester and lived with Barbara's mother Nora Pass in Stretford, and then Gibb got a job in the Isle of Man and they moved to Douglas. Gibb started to play at Douglas Bay Hotel and the Alexandra, both in Douglas.\n\nOn 1 September 1946, Barry Gibb was born at 8:45 am at the Jane Crookall Maternity Home in Douglas. During the same time, Hugh was busy with his music at various hotels in Douglas when Barry was a baby: \"I stayed there for [about] 10 years and Joe Loss' band used to be there, that was the big band era\". On 22 December 1949, Robin Gibb was born at 3:15 a.m. Later at 3:50 a.m., Maurice Gibb was born at Jane Crookall Maternity Home. In 1955, the Gibbs returned in Manchester area. On 5 March 1958, Andy Gibb was born in Stretford Memorial Hospital in Manchester.\n\nHis band the Hughie Gibb Orchestra was firmly ensconced on the circuit of Mecca ballrooms, playing mainly in Northern England and Scotland. After Barry was born, Hugh was busy with his music at various hotels in Douglas when Barry was a baby: \"I stayed there for [about] 10 years and Joe Loss' band used to be there, that was the big band era\". Rosalia Black, who was the daughter of the hotel owner, Carlo Raineri recalls \"the band must have been popular because the ballroom was always packed, even though the Joe Loss Orchestra was at the Villa Marina and Ronnie Aldrich with the Squadronaires was at the Palace Ballroom\".\n\nHugh was always on the lookout for work. Even as an extremely popular musician, he did not earn very much, and he often put together bands for one-off gigs, one such dance might have been the Invitation Dinner Dance held at London's Metropole Hotel on 24 February 1949, the reception was at 7:00 PM, the title of the show was 'Hughie Gibb and his Music', entertaining the people until 1:00 AM.\n\nHugh didn't actually play on board the ferry, and his band was not paid by Douglas Corporation, who ran the ferry. Apart from trumpeter Charlie Whewell, others who played on Hugh's band, his band in 1946, the line-up consisted of Arthur Crawford (accordion), Jim Caine (piano), Tommy Cowley (bass), Albert Metcalfe (tenor saxophone) and John Knight (trombone).\n\nAside from being a musician, Hugh's work at day was delivering bread as their neighbour Joan Hill said: \"We were all very poor in those days and Mr. Gibb was a godsend, He used to bring home dozens of loaves that had to be sold before the end of the day, bread must have been much more wholesome in those days, didn't have all the preservatives it does today. Hugh would then be able to sell these off to neighbors at a fraction of the normal cost.\" Hugh musical background is credited as the Bee Gees' inspiration to follow a musical career, his influence on his sons was actually more indirect.\n\nHugh credited his wife's sister, Peggy, with the idea of emigrating to Australia, as she eventually did with her family, though it was his family that migrated first. Later, he and Barbara applied for passage to Australia but did little to prepare for the move as Hugh said: \"Because they say, don't dispose of your property until you know what you're doing. Sometimes you have to wait two years, we got it in six weeks.\" At the beginning of August 1958, the family set sail for Australia.\n\nWhen the family arrived in Queensland, Hugh found work as a \"bush photographer\". His photography assignments were not as frequent as he would have liked, so he took on extra work for Scarborough local council.\n\nHugh remembers that the group's break came when television was started in Brisbane around 1960: \"We auditioned for one of the variety shows, anything goes right way, they signed us\". When the family moved back to Britain, on 7 February 1967, at 7:40 in the morning, the phone rang. Robert Stigwood, Brian Epstein's partner, said \"Look we've been doing a lot of reshuffling in the office here, and we've just come across the acetate you sent us, and we played it. Could you come along and see us this afternoon?\" By November 1971, Hugh and Barbara moved to Ibiza, Spain with Andy and adopted daughter, Beri.\n\nAfter Andy Gibb's death in 1988, Hugh lost interest in his life. On 6 March 1992, one day after what would have been Andy Gibb's 34th birthday, Hugh died of internal bleeding at the age of 76. Hugh lies buried in the same cemetery as Andy in the Court of Remembrance section, Forest Lawn Memorial Park, Los Angeles. Barry Gibb's reaction was \"I believe all this was meant to happen, I miss my father of course, but he stopped living when Andy died and I'm sure he's happier now\".\n"}
{"id": "27261047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27261047", "title": "Hugo II Logothetti", "text": "Hugo II Logothetti\n\nHugo Count Logothetti (2 October 1852 in Klausenburg – 3 Augustus 1918 in Teheran) was an Austrian-Hungarian diplomat of Greek ancestry and the last emissary of the Habsburg monarchy in Teheran.\n\nHugo II Count Logothetti originated from an old Byzantine lineage which claimed its origin in the Byzantine Emperor Nikephoros I Logothetes (reigned 802-811) and settled on the Ionian island of Zante (Zakynthos) after the fall of Constantinople (1453). In the 18th century a descendant, an officer of the Venetian Republic, Giacomo (James) Conte Logothetti (1741–1802) went to the principality of Moldavia. After the annexation of the Bukovina he became an Austrian citizen. His descendants played an important role in the defence of this most eastern Austrian province and were counted among the honorables of its capital Czernowitz (nowadays: Chernivtsi, Чернівці, Ukraine). In 1830, after his marriage with Pauline Baroness Bartenstein, a direct offspring of the chancellor of the Empress Maria-Theresa, Johann Christoph von Bartenstein, Hugo’s grandfather Hugo I Logothetti (1801–1861) bought the manors Bilovice and Březolupy near the South Moravian town of Uherské Hradiště. He was known as Maecenas of the Czech painter Josef Mánes (1820–1871) from whom he commissioned a portrait of Veruna Čudová. This painting is nowadays the best known genre piece of Mánes. Hugo II was born 2 October 1852 in Klausenburg (the present Cluj-Napoca in Rumania) where his father Vladimir Count Logothetti (1822–1892) was serving as an officer in the army. Because his mother descended from high Transylvanian nobility (Nemes de Hidvég) with a palace and houses in Klausenburg, Hugo was baptized in the Roman Catholic cathedral of Klausenburg. In 1858 the family returned to Bilovice.\n\nAfter secondary school in Uherské Hradiště, Hugo II entered the 54th Regiment of the Line in Olomouc as a volunteer, but had to quit service due to poor health in 1871. He then went to Vienna to study (1872–1877) at the Oriental Academy, the forerunner of the present Diplomatic Academy, founded by the Empress Maria Theresa. Logothetti had an aptitude for languages and learned Arabic, Persian and Turkish. His first foreign post after his study was in Constantinople, then one of the most important foreign missions of Austria-Hungary. \n\nLogothetti’s further career was typical for a gifted diplomat: consul-elève in Constantinople 1877-1880, consul-elève in Alexandria (Egypt) 1880-1882, deputy consul in Alexandria in 1882, in the same year consul in Port Said. In 1883 he became emissary of Austria-Hungary in the compensation commission in Alexandria. From September 1883 he was attaché in Constantinople, where in 1866 he became embassy secretary and became acquainted with the Austrian-Hungarian diplomat Julius baron Zwiedinek von Südenhorst (1833–1918), his later father-in-law.\n\nOn 17 July 1886 Logothetti married Frieda Barbara Baroness Zwiedinek von Südenhorst (1866–1945) in the church of St. Maria Draperis in the European quarter of Constantinople, Pera. In 1889 Logothetti was named judge of first instance in the International Tribunal in Alexandria. He held this function till 1897 when he became consul-general of Austria-Hungary in Rumania at Galati where he was at the same time Austrian-Hungarian emissary in the European Danube Commission. From 1899 till 1906 he was consul-general in Barcelona, 1906-1907 consul in Milan, 1907-1911 consul in Hamburg, 1911-1912 consul-general in Tunis.\n\nBecause of growing tension in the Balkans and the Near East it was necessary to provide the legation in Persia with an experienced diplomat with good knowledge of land and language. The new Austrian-Hungarian Minister of Foreign Affairs Leopold Berchtold (1863–1942) named Logothetti on 12 May 1912 as k. u. k. extraordinary plenipotentiary minister and envoy in Teheran. It was on this occasion that the official portrait was painted. Logothetti was a relative of the minister through his grandmother, Karolina Countess Berchtold.\n\nGreat-Britain and Russia divided Persia into spheres of influence in 1906 – the Russians were in northern Persia, the British in southeast Persia bounded by British India. In the west the Ottoman Empire tried to gain some influence in Persia. In a secret treaty (1907) Great-Britain and Russia tried to give an official status under international law to this situation. The Persians reacted, however, with a constitutional revolution (March/April 1912) that was crushed with Russian and British military aid. Nevertheless, the new Persian government tried to stay at least officially neutral in World War I.\n\nOn 4 November 1912 Logothetti presented his credentials to the Shah and began his service in Teheran. He had the task of defending Persian neutrality against all efforts of Russia and Great-Britain to get Persia on their side, as well to defend Austrian-Hungarian interests in the Near East.\n\nWhen the war broke out in 1914 Logothetti was on leave in Moravia. He left his family at home and returned alone to Teheran where he was arrested – against all diplomatic customs – by the Russians who deprived him of all money and sent him through Sweden back to Europe. On 27 April 1915 Logothetti returned to Teheran. After a failed putsch initiated by the German embassy (August 1915) and a German attempt to set up in Persia and Afghanistan a front against British India the situation in Persia became quite unsure for diplomats of the Central Powers. Most governments called their envoys back and thus after 1916 Logothetti was practically the only Central diplomat service in Persia. He survived several assaults on his person (1916, 1917) nearly unharmed.\n\nIn January 1918 the new Persian government tried to restore effective Persian neutrality. After the Russian revolution of 1917 and the departure of Russian troops from northern Persia, Logothetti tried to free all prisoners of war of Austrian-Hungarian origin in Russian-Turkoman concentration camps in order to get them to Persia and through Constantinople back to Europe. These efforts had partly succeeded when Logothetti died suddenly and mysteriously on 3 August 1918 (presumably of arsenic poisoning). He was buried in the French mission church.\n\nLogothetti had with his spouse Frieda (died 1945) 10 children of whom three died young. The eldest daughters Marie-Rose Countess Logothetti (1888–1976) and Caroline (Lola) Countess Logothetti (1891–1978) married diplomats – Marie-Rose with the Italian envoy Giulio Cesare Cavagliere Montagna (1874–1954), Lola with the Dutch consul Willem-Bernard Engelbrecht (1881–1955). Hermine (Meta) married with the Hungarian judge Géza de Ertsey and the youngest daughter Carmen with the Moravian engineer Lothar Schmid. The eldest son Felix served as Austrian-Hungarian army officer (rittmaster) and married Countess Stella Barbo von Waxenstein, the daughter of Count Josef Anton Barbo von Waxenstein. In 1942 Felix, his wife and his son Deodat were murdered during a fight between Communist Jugoslavian partisans with Italian occupation troops on the hereditary castle of the family Barbo, Watzenberg Manor (Castello Dob) in present Slovenia. The second son Hugo III Count Logothetti (1901–1975) stayed till 1945 on the Moravian family estate Bilovice as did the youngest, Emanuel (1907–1990), who was up till 1938 a civil servant of the Czechoslovak Republic and after 1945 Secretary of State of Bavaria for refugee aid.\n\nLogothetti obtained a large number of honors during his life. According to the documents in the family records, he was honoured with the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11350161", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11350161", "title": "Human-rating certification", "text": "Human-rating certification\n\nHuman-rating certification, also known as man-rating, is the certification of a spacecraft or launch vehicle as capable of safely transporting humans. (Since the 1990s, NASA and the U.S. GAO prefer to use \"human-rating\" instead of \"man-rating\" when describing requirements for these systems.)\n\nAccording to NASA, human-rating requires not just that a system is designed to be tolerant of failure and to protect the crew even if unrecoverable failure occurs, but also that astronauts aboard a human-rated spacecraft must have some control over it. This set of technical requirements and the associated certification process for crewed space systems is required in addition to the standards and requirements that are mandatory for all of NASA's space flight programs.\n\nIn November 2011, Ed Mango, the agency head of the NASA Commercial Crew Program (CCP), gave an extended interview on the new NASA requirements for human rating of spacecraft that will fly to the International Space Station (ISS).\n\nThe NASA CCP human-rating standards require that the probability of a loss on ascent is no more than 1 in 500, and that the probability of a loss on descent is no more than 1 in 500. The overall mission loss risk, which includes vehicle risk from micrometeorites and orbital debris while in orbit for up to 210 days, is required to be no more than 1 in 270. Maximum sustained G-loads are limited to three Earth-standard g's.\n\nThe development of the Space Shuttle and the International Space Station pre-dates the NASA Human-Rating requirements. After the Challenger and Columbia accidents, the criteria used by NASA for human-rating spacecraft have been made more stringent.\n\nThe United Launch Alliance (ULA) published a paper submitted to AIAA detailing the modifications to its Delta IV and Atlas V launch vehicles that would be needed to conform to NASA Standard 8705.2B. \nULA has since been awarded $6.7 million under NASA's Commercial Crew Development (CCDev) program for development of an Emergency Detection System, one of the final pieces that would be needed to make these launchers suitable for human spaceflight.\n\n"}
{"id": "37090183", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37090183", "title": "James W. Adams", "text": "James W. Adams\n\nJames W. Adams of Southville, Kentucky was a carpenter, builder, and designer in south central Shelby County, Kentucky.\n\nA number of his works are listed on the U.S. National Register of Historic Places.\n\n"}
{"id": "5380355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5380355", "title": "John V. Creely", "text": "John V. Creely\n\nJohn Vaudain Creely (November 14, 1839 – declared dead September 28, 1900) was an Independent Republican member of the United States House of Representatives from Pennsylvania. He disappeared while serving in Congress and was later declared legally dead.\n\nJohn Creely was born in Philadelphia, Pennsylvania where he was educated. He graduated from Central High School, studied law, was admitted to the bar in 1862, and practiced in Philadelphia. During the American Civil War he served with the Union Army as an officer of Keystone Battery, Pennsylvania Light Artillery Regiment. Originally commissioned a first lieutenant in 1862, he later received promotion to captain as commander of the battery before leaving the military in 1867.\n\nCreely was a member of the Philadelphia City Council from 1867 to 1871. He was elected to Congress as Independent Republican in 1870, and served in the 42nd United States Congress. However, Creely seems to have rarely carried out his congressional duties, and appears only once in the \"Congressional Globe Index\", a predecessor to the \"Congressional Record\", for having taken part in a ceremonial vote at the beginning of Congressional term. He did not receive his pay, which remained with the House Sergeant at Arms.\n\nIn 1872 Creely was sued for legal malpractice, accused of misappropriating a client's stock certificates and using them as a security for a loan which he did not repay. He was subsequently accused of additional financial misdeeds, which could have played a part in his subsequent disappearance.\n\nAccording to court documents his sister Adelaide filed when she requested that he be declared legally dead, in August or September 1872 Creely departed Philadelphia for Washington in preparation for the start of a Congressional session in December, and later informed his sister and mother that he was going to board a ship for New Orleans. He was not heard from again, and investigations by his family failed to determine his whereabouts or how he had come to disappear.\n\nInvestigators found that his suitcases and other personal belongings were still in his Washington boarding house room, making it unlikely that he had sailed to New Orleans. Despite this discovery, his mother and sister later searched for him in New Orleans, most major U.S. cities, and locations as far away as Europe, Asia, Africa, and South America, but found no trace.\n\nCreely's mother died in 1897, after which his sister applied to have him declared legally dead. On September 28, 1900 the orphans' court of Philadelphia made the declaration, and his sister received his estate, consisting chiefly of the Congressional pay Creely had never claimed.\n\nIn 1927, as the Joint Committee on Printing prepared to reprint the \"Biographical Directory of the United States Congress,\" one clerk went through extensive research to obtain more information about Creely's fate, including writing to men with whom he served during the Civil War. One response the clerk received stated, \"He [Creely] was a splendid soldier, with a fine record and was honorably discharged at the end of his term of service . . . He went to Washington and that was the last time I, or any of his friends, ever heard of him. He never came back to Philadelphia, and disappeared utterly.\"\n\n\n Retrieved on 2008-02-14\n"}
{"id": "9004464", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9004464", "title": "Juan Manuel López (boxer)", "text": "Juan Manuel López (boxer)\n\nJuan Manuel \"Juanma\" López Rivera (born June 30, 1983) is a Puerto Rican professional boxer. He is a former world champion in two weight classes, having held the WBO junior featherweight title from 2008 to 2009, and the WBO featherweight title from 2010 to 2011. As an amateur he represented Puerto Rico at numerous international tournaments, including the 2002 Central American and Caribbean Games, the 2003 Pan American Games, and the 2004 Olympics. López was considered a knockout artist at his peak in the late 2000s and early 2010s.\n\nLópez started boxing when he was ten years old. He won the Puerto Rican national amateur championship for five consecutive years between 2000 and 2004. López represented Puerto Rico internationally, fighting in the bantamweight division ( in the amateur circuit). In the 2001 Pan American Championships held in San Juan, Puerto Rico, on August 10–18, López ended in the second place after Elio Rojas of the Dominican Republic. He was part of the national team assembled to compete in the 2002 Central American and Caribbean Games, held in San Salvador. In this competition, López debuted by defeating local pugilist Antonio Nuñez by points (23:16), but lost a decision to Abner Mares of Mexico, with scores of 23:19. In the first 2003 Pan American qualifier, López debuted by defeating Francisco Palma of Ecuador, with scores of 12:8. In the semifinals, he lost to Alexander Espinoza of Venezuela by points (11:10). His next major international event was the 2003 Pan American Games, organized in Santo Domingo. Debuting in the preliminaries, López defeated Castulo González of Guatemala by points (27:10) in the inaugural fight. In the quarterfinals, he was matched against Mares, losing another fight by points, on this occasion with results of 24:21. López was among the Puerto Rican boxers that competed in the American Olympic qualification tournament, which took place in Tijuana. He began his participation on March 14, 2004, by defeating Roberto Benítez of the United States via decision. In the tournament's second date, he defeated Algenis Méndez, who represented the Dominican Republic, by points. In the final, López lost a decision to Andrew Kooner of Canada, with scores of 29:18. This performance earned him a position in the national team that participated at the 2004 Summer Olympics, held in Athens. As part of his training for that games, López participated in two \"Puerto Rico vs. USA\" tournaments, where both national teams paired those qualified for the event. The first of these took place on May 7, 2004, in Reno, Nevada. There, López defeated Eric Hunter by walkover. In the second, organized in Trenton, New Jersey, on October 4, 2004, he defeated Torrence Daniels by points (16–15). This was followed by his last participation in the Jose \"Cheo\" Aponte Tournament in Caguas, Puerto Rico, where he defeated Luis Peña in the finals, 33–5. López's Olympic debut took place on August 17, 2004, when he was paired against Khavazhi Khatsigov of Belarus, losing the contest by points (27–19). Upon closing his amateur career, he had compiled a record of 126–24.\n\nLópez turned professional in 2005 following the Olympic games, boxing in the junior featherweight division. As a professional he is promoted by Top Rank Boxing and comanaged by Orlando Piñero and Peter Rivera, president of Puerto Rico Best Boxing Promotions. López debuted on January 29, 2005, in Bayamón, Puerto Rico picking a quick knockout victory against also debuting boxer Luis Colón. He would go on to defeat nine straight adversaries by knockout: Ivan Cordero, Efrain Perez, Eric Nemos, Charlie Jones, Roberto Chacón, Luis Bolaño, Manuel Sanabria and Jose Luis Caro. He concluded his first year as a professional with a record of 8–0 with eight knockouts, which earned him the Puerto Rico Boxing Commission's recognition for rookie and prospect of the year. On March 4, 2006, he won his first fight by unanimous decision against Gilberto Bolanos of Mexico. He would win four more fights before the end of 2006, three of them by knockout. One of these fights was against Jose Alonso, for the WBO Latino Super Bantamweight Championship, a regional championship sanctioned by the World Boxing Organization. The fight took place on September 30, 2006, in Caguas and ended in the third round when López defeated Alonso by technical knockout. His first fight of 2007 took place in Dodge Arena in Phoenix, Arizona against Cuauhtemoc Vargas, in a fight he won when Vargas was unable to continue. He would compete again on March 3 in San Juan, against Leivi Brea, in a fight that he won by technical knockout. On April 28, 2007, López would have his first fight outside of Puerto Rico and the United States in a fight that took place in Barranquilla, Colombia. The fight was against Colombian boxer Jorge Otero, the fight ended when the referee stopped the fight thus giving López another technical knockout victory. López's next fight took place on June 22, 2007, in Hato Rey, Puerto Rico against Giovanni Andrade of Brazil as the main event of a card presented by \"Puerto Rico Best Boxing\". López won the fight by technical knockout at 2:59 of the first round when Andrade indicated to the referee that he could not continue. On August 4, 2007, López retained his regional title in a fight where he defeated Hugo Dianzo by technical knockout. López dominated throughout the fight opening wounds on Dianzo's head. On the tenth round one of López's punches opened one of these wounds further which led to Dianzo losing a significant amount of blood, following this incident the referee stopped the fight. López would successfully defend his regional title against Omar Adorno, in a special fight card presented by the WBO that took place on October 31, 2007. Juan scored three knockdows throughout the course of the fight, and after two minutes of the second round had passed he won the fight by knockout. López's fourth title defense took place on February 23, 2008, when he defeated Jonathan Oquendo by technical knockout in the third round of an event titled \"Guerra Civil\".\n\nOn June 7, 2008, López fought in his first world championship match when he challenged Daniel Ponce de León for the World Boxing Organization's super bantamweight title in a card organized by Home Box Office at the Boardwalk Hall in Atlantic City, New Jersey. He won by technical knockout in the first round, when the referee stopped the fight after Ponce de León failed to respond following two consecutive knockdowns. After attending several homages, presentations and interviews, López received his championship belt from the WBO's president, Francisco \"Paco\" Valcárcel, on June 13, 2008. During this ceremony, he received a letter from Wilfredo Gómez, offering congratulations and predicting a solid career. López's first defense was against César Figueroa and it took place on October 4, 2008, in an event titled \"The First Step\" which was organized at the José Miguel Agrelot Coliseum in Puerto Rico. The opponent in this contest was originally expected to be Olivier Lontchi, but he was discarded after earning a draw against what was perceived as a \"low quality\" adversary. His entrance featured fireworks and personalized music composed by Baby Rasta & Gringo, while Félix Trinidad and Iván Calderón accompanied him in the ring. The fight lasted only 47 seconds, López began by boxing around the ring and throwing sporadic jabs, but in his first offensive attempt he connected a combination that left Figueroa unconscious. Roberto Ramírez, the fight's referee, concluded the protection count without response and stopped the contest by knockout. This marked the fifth fastest knockout victory in a title fight, superating Mike Tyson's win over Michael Spinks. Two days after this fight, Bob Arum confirmed that López would be featured as part of \"The Dream Match\" card, which presented a fight between Manny Pacquiao and Oscar De La Hoya in the main event. López began training again on October 13, 2008, seeking to conserve and improve his physical condition for this event. During this week, Israel Vázquez responded to a challenge issued following the defense against Figueroa, stating that a matchup between both pugilists would be \"interesting\" because it would \"be a challenge\". López concured, noting that after a preparatory fight in 2009, the plan would be to organize the fight in New York, the night before the Puerto Rican Day Parade. Approaches were made to several of the ranked pugilists, with Sergio Medina and Bernabé Concepción emerging as tentative opponents. The WBO's bantamweight champion, Gerry Peñalosa, expressed interest in pursuing the fight after Abner Mares was injured, but his proposal included a guarantee of $250,000 in earnings, which wasn't considered as cost effective by López and his staff. In the meanwhile, he received a homage as part of the Dominican Parade in San Juan, serving as \"Padrino Internacional\" (lit. \"International Godfather\") along Calderón.\n\nMedina, who at the moment was ranked fourth by the WBO, was ultimately selected as the adversary for the event organized on December 6, 2008. During the activities organized prior to this card, López met Vázquez and Rafael Márquez in person, with both of them expressing interest in competing against him during 2009. The fight lasted 1:38, being stopped by the referee in the first round, when López scored three consecutive knockdowns. According to Compubox, Medina was only able to land one punch in six attempts, while exhibiting a timid pace. López took offensive initiative and continued in control of the fight's tempo throughout the contest. In recognition to his performance during 2008, López received numerous recognitions including \"Athlete of the Year\" awards from \"Primera Hora\" and the \"Museo del Deporte de Puerto Rico\", in addition he was included in a list titled \"Los pioneros del año\" published by \"El Nuevo Día\", which discussed the year's most notorious public figures. On February 10, 2009, Golden Boy Promotions' vice president, Eric Gómez, confirmed that López's first mandatory defense would be against Peñalosa.\n\nThe event was held on April 25, 2009, being dubbed \"Campeón vs.Campeón\", emphasizing that both boxers were champions entering the contest. Early in the fight, both pugilists exchanged combinations, with López gaining a slight advantage by targeting the head and body of Peñalosa. This pattern continued in the third and fourth rounds, while the challenger continued counterattacking despite receiving more damage. Between the fifth and sixth chapters, both pugilists exchanged combinations, with Peñalosa scoring his most solid punches. During the following two rounds, López managed to establish control of the offensive's tempo, but Peñalosa continued using his counterattack. Prior to the ninth chapter, Peñalosa's trainer, Freddie Roach, warned him that he had to win by knockout or the fight would be stopped. In the round, the pattern continued with few variations, once it was over Roach submitted the fight. With this technical knockout, López became the first boxer to defeat the veteran by knockout. After the fight, Peñalosa received an ovation from the public for his effort. Throughout the fight, López established divisional records, breaking the marks for most power punches landed in a round and most power punches thrown in a round, both were achieved during the eight round.\n\nSubsequently, López defended against Oliver Lontchi. The pugilist began the fight calmly. In the second round, López scored a knockdown. Consequently, Lontchi switched to a defensive tactic during the following round, before beginning to exchange combinations. López was scoring the stronger punches during these exchanges, winning the sixth and seventh chapters. In the ninth, Lontchi received a second knockdown and his corner decided to stop the fight during the recess. In his last fight at the super bantamweight division, López defended against Rogers Mtagwa. The first stage of the fight featured a head clash that injured López's left eye. In the fifth round, the pugilist scored a knockdown, but Mtagwa recovered and continued. In the eight round, López engaged on the offensive, gaining advantage. Mtagwa scored punches after the bell in the eight and ninth rounds. Despite holding a lead on the scorecards, López decided to continue trading in the latter half of the fight. In the final minute of the eleventh round, Mtagwa injured him with a punch, but was not able to score a knockdown. López, still injured, employed a defensive stance throughout the twelfth round, surviving to receive a unanimous decision with scores of 116-111, 115-111 and 114-113.\n\nImmediately following this fight, plans to fight Steven Luevano for the WBO featherweight championship were made public. An economic agreement was reached in November 2009. The event was organized on January, 2010, at Madison Square Garden. Both boxed around the ring during the first round, with López gaining a slight advantage. Luevano used his speed to employ a constant jab during the second round, working on counter-punches, which left him open to a combination to end that stage. López began pursuing the offensive during the third round, employing combinations and pursuing Luevano, who attempted to counter. This pattern persisted during the following two rounds. By the sixth round López's offensive had damaged Luevano's left eye, which began to swell. In the seventh round López scored a knockdown following a combination. Luevano was able to stand up but was still injured, which prompted the referee to stop the fight by technical knockout.\n\nLópez's first featherweight defense took place on July 10, 2010, against the WBO's mandatory challenger, Bernabé Concepción. The first round began with both boxers circling around the ring, studying their respective opponent. During an exchange Concepción received a left hook that forced him to fall back against the ropes, López then engaged on the offensive, scoring a knockdown. This pattern continued, with Concepción staying on the offensive until he was able to counter and score a knockdown. López began the second round more aggressive, scoring two consecutive knockdowns, which prompted the referee to stop the fight by technical knockout.\n\nWith this outcome, previous negotiations with Rafael Márquez's camp continued, pursuing an autumn date for the contest. September 18, 2010, was the original scheluded date, but an injury suffered by Márquez during training forced posponement. The event was re-scheluded for November 6, 2010. López won the fight by a TKO in the 9th round, when Márquez refused to come back to fight due to an injured shoulder.\n\nOn April 16, 2011, he lost the WBO title to Orlando Salido via technical knockout, as the referee stopped the fight in the 8th round. The bout was held in Bayamon, Puerto Rico. The outcome of the fight was a huge upset. It was the first loss of López' career. On March 10, 2012, he lost again to Orlando Salido in a rematch by 10th-round technical knockout in San Juan, Puerto Rico. Lopez's excuse was that he could've continued to fight and that the referee only stopped the fight in that scenario because he had a bet placed on Salido to win the fight.\n\nThen after almost 11 months of inactivity from the ring, Lopez finally returned to face Aldimar Silva on February 2, 2013. Lopez showed no signs of ring rust, dominating Silva from start to finish, before ultimately winning the fight by TKO in the ninth round. Just nearly 3 months later, he then faced Eugenio Lopez in Mexico on April 20, 2013. His fight Eugenio proved to be even easier than his destruction over Aldimar Silva when Lopez defeated him via lop-sided second-round knock-out.\n\nLópez had a relationship with Bárbara De Jesús that lasted nine years. The couple has two children, which share the house with three siblings. The couple met in a public housing project in Juncos where López's mother lived. In the beginning López's family did not support the relationship because De Jesús had three children from a previous relation. They eventually moved together and established a residence in Caguas. De Jesús played a role in López's training, preparing seven daily meals and accompanying him in weight routines. Several members of their family used to attend his daily trainings, which he considered a \"tranquility provider\". De Jesús also used to be present in López's corner during fights, and received a salary for scheduling his daily agenda. The couple held their civil wedding in August 2009. A catholic wedding was subsequently held on July 18, 2010. On February, 2011, only 7 months after his wedding, López filed a divorce claim against Bárbara De Jesús for undisclosed reasons.\n\nIn 2012, López started a relationship with Geraldine Crespo, whom she had met while training at the gym. In February 2013, the couple got engaged after his fight with Aldimar Silva. The couple married in August 2014 in a private wedding in Guaynabo, Puerto Rico. In October 31, 2015, Crespo presented a domestic abuse complaint against López after he allegedly hit her in the face after an argument. López went to court the next day and was released after paying bond.\n\nLópez's professional success garnered him fame in Puerto Rico where he became a mainstream celebrity, having frequent participation in television segments transmitted throughout the archipelago. Due to this, he has attended public celebrations and other activities unrelated to pugilism, including the launch party for \"TV y Novelas Puerto Rico\", a magazine focused in telenovelas. Outside of his own fights, López also attends other boxing cards as a spectator and performed as guest commentator in an event titled \"Guerra Civil II\" headlined by a fight between Iván Calderón and Nelson Dieppa. He also participates in charity work, including the WBO's Christmas gift giveaways.\n\n"}
{"id": "56808221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56808221", "title": "Ken Regan", "text": "Ken Regan\n\nKen Regan (June 15, c. 1940s – November 25, 2012) was an American photojournalist from the Bronx, New York City whose reputation for discretion allowed him close connections with subjects including many musicians, politicians and celebrities. He was the official photographer for the Rolling Stones on several tours in the 1970s. He also was the photojournalist on Bob Dylan’s Rolling Thunder Revue tour in 1975 and the Live Aid concert in 1985.\n\nRegan was the unofficial personal photographer of Senator Ted Kennedy in the last four decades of Kennedy's life. Regan documented Christopher Reeve’s homecoming from rehabilitation after Reeve's 1995 horse accident which left the actor paralyzed. He photographed local politicians including Meade Esposito.\n\nRegan worked with Palace Press Inside Editions on a book called \"Knockout: The Art of Boxing\".\n\nHe was described by his colleagues as \"a big deal\". Regan died of cancer in 2012. A spokesperson from his studio declined to release his age calling him \"ageless\".\n"}
{"id": "8205673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8205673", "title": "Lisette Model", "text": "Lisette Model\n\nLisette Model (born Elise Amelie Felicie Stern; November 10, 1901 – March 30, 1983) was an Austrian-born American photographer. Primarily known for the frank humanism of her street photography, exact details of Model's life remain unclear. What is known is that she was well known and respected in photographic communities during her life. She taught at the New School for Social Research in New York from 1951 up until her death in 1983 with many notable students, the most famous of which was Diane Arbus. Her work has been shown in numerous exhibitions and still resides in several permanent collections, including that of the National Gallery of Canada and the J. Paul Getty Museum.\n\nLisette Model was born Elise Amelie Felicie Stern in Vienna, Austria-Hungary. Her father, Victor, was an Italian/Austrian doctor of Jewish descent attached to the Austro-Hungarian Imperial and Royal Army and, later, to the International Red Cross; her mother Felicie was French and Roman Catholic, and Model was baptised into her mother's faith. She had a brother, Salvatór, who was older by one year. Two years after her birth, her parents changed their family name to \"Seybert,\" and six years later, her younger sister Olga was born. According to interview testimony from her older brother, she was sexually molested by her father, though the full extent of his abuse remains unclear.\n\nShe was primarily educated by a series of private tutors, achieving fluency in three languages. At age 19, she began studying music with composer (and father of her childhood friend Gertrude) Arnold Schönberg, and was familiar to members of his circle. \"If ever in my life I had one teacher and one great influence, it was Schönberg,\" she said.\n\nModel left Vienna for Paris after her father's death in 1924 to study voice with Polish soprano Marya Freund. It was during this period that she met her future husband, the Jewish, Russian-born painter Evsa Model (1901–1976), whom she went on to marry in 1937. In 1933, she gave up music and recommitted herself to studying visual art, at first taking up painting as a student of Andre Lhote (whose other students included Henri Cartier-Bresson and George Hoyningen-Huene).\n\nModel bought her first enlarger and camera when she went to Italy. She had little training or interest in photography initially; it was Olga who taught her the basics of photographic technique. Model was most interested in the darkroom process, and wanted to become a darkroom technician. She used her sister as a subject to start her photography. Rogi André later showed Model how to use the Rolleiflex, expanding her practice.\n\nVisiting her mother in Nice in 1934 (she and Olga had emigrated from Vienna several years prior), Model took her camera out on the Promenade des Anglais and made a series of portraits – published in 1935 in the leftist magazine \"Regards\" – which are still among her most widely reproduced and exhibited images. These close-cropped, often clandestine portraits of the local privileged class already bore what would become her signature style: close-up, unsentimental and unretouched expositions of vanity, insecurity and loneliness. Model's compositions and closeness to her subjects were achieved by enlarging and cropping her negatives in the darkroom. Additionally, her use of a 2 1/4 inch square negative and larger print size were stylistic choices considered unique at a time when a proliferation of street photographers were embracing what was called the minicam. Later examination of her negatives by archivists reveals that the uncropped images include much of the subjects' physical surroundings. Model's edits in the darkroom eliminate those distractions, tightening the focus on the person and excluding extraneous background information. After the publication of the Promenade des Anglais images, or the \"Riviera\" series, Model resumed her Paris street photography practice, this time focusing on the poor.\n\nAfter emigrating to Manhattan in 1937 with her husband, Model worked as a photographer for \"PM\" magazine and was regularly published in Harper's Bazaar by editors Carmel Snow and Alexey Brodovitch. She was captivated by the energy of New York City, which she expressed through her separate series \"Reflections\" and \"Running Legs.\" She also took particular interest in distinct areas of the city, specifically the Lower East Side and Coney Island, where she made hundreds of photographs depicting ordinary American people. Model eventually became a member of the New York Photo League and studied with Sid Grossman until the League's demise in 1951. During its existence, Model was an active League member and served as a judge in membership print competitions. In 1941, the League hosted her first solo exhibition. From 1941 to 1953, she was a freelance photographer and contributed to many publications including Harper's Bazaar, Look, and Ladies' Home Journal.\n\nModel's involvement with the New York Photo League became the cause of much strife for her during the McCarthy Era of the 1950s, when the organization came under scrutiny by the House Un-American Activities Committee for suspected connections to the Communist Party. The League was eventually classified as a communist organization by the FBI, who interviewed Model personally in 1954 and attempted to recruit her as an informant. She refused to cooperate with the Bureau, leading to her name being placed on the National Security Watchlist. Because many clients were reluctant to hire somebody who was under FBI suspicion, Model encountered increased difficulty finding opportunities to work, which played a role in her focus shift towards teaching.\n\nModel embarked on a prolific teaching career in the latter half of her life, both institutionally and in private. In 1947, she taught photography at the San Francisco Institute of Fine Arts. In 1951, Model was invited to teach at the New School for Social Research in New York City, where her longtime friend Berenice Abbott was also teaching photography. She also offered private workshops. Model's best known pupil was Diane Arbus, who studied under her in 1957, and Arbus owed much of her early technique to Model. Arbus's husband Allan was actually quoted attributing her development as an artist to Model: \"That was Lisette. Three sessions and Diane was a photographer.\" Larry Fink, John Gossage, Charles Pratt, Eva Rubinstein and Rosalind Solomon were also students of Model's. She continued to teach in New York after the passing of her husband Evsa in 1976, both at the New School and at the International Center of Photography. In 1981 she was awarded an honorary doctorate of fine arts by The New School.\n\nThe first book of Model's photographs was published in 1979 by Aperture and included a preface by Berenice Abbott. Marvin Israel designed the book. Fifty-two photographs made 1937–1970 were reproduced at a large enough scale to correspond with her preferred dimension of 16 x 20 inches. In the later half of her career, Model's work underwent a steep drop in print production. She hadn't stopped shooting photographs; she had simply stopped printing them. Much like some of the hazier details of her biography, the reason for this change has not been conclusively identified. Speculation points toward declining health and self-efficacy, increased energy directed towards teaching, and precarious financial situation as some of the primary causes. Nevertheless, Model continued to shoot and teach until her death. Even in her twilight hours, her work was exhibited in Germany, Japan, and the Netherlands, to name a few, and in 1982 she received the Medal of the City of Paris. She died at New York Hospital on March 30, 1983 from heart and respiratory disease.\n\nThe estate of Lisette Model is represented by Bruce Silverstein Gallery, New York, New York. This estate was responsible for the release of a mass of information on the notoriously private Model after her death, including 25,000 negatives (many hundreds unprinted), personal letters, lectures, press clippings, and many more sources. The release of this information made up for the previous dearth of accurate details on Model's life, which could be partially attributed to her mistrust of written publications. She refused the release of interviews, and allegedly even sabotaged a manuscript about her by Phillip Lopate. It is suspected that she may have fudged the truth about her past more than once, and her reticence was due to a fear of revealing this misinformation and unclouding her personal history. Regardless, there is now a wealth of knowledge to be found, thanks to the meticulous preservation of her estate.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23912408", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23912408", "title": "List of Nürburgring fatalities", "text": "List of Nürburgring fatalities\n\nFatal accidents on the Nürburgring motorsport race track in Nürburg, Germany during national and international motor-sport events on the \"Gesamtstrecke\" (\"Whole Course\"), the \"Nordschleife\" (\"Northern Loop\"), the \"Südschleife\" (\"Southern Loop\") and the warm-up loop \"Zielschleife\" (\"Finish Loop\") or \"Betonschleife\". From 1984, the new \"GP-Strecke\" or \"Eifelring\" which was built on the site of the Nürburgring pits complex and part of the \"Südschleife\".\n"}
{"id": "1060158", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1060158", "title": "Mark Leduc", "text": "Mark Leduc\n\nMark Leduc (May 4, 1962 – July 22, 2009) was a boxer from Canada, who won a silver medal at the 1992 Barcelona Summer Olympics.\n\n\n\nLeduc turned pro in 1992 and had limited success. He retired in 1993 with a record of 6-1-0 after losing to Michel Galarneau.\n\nIn 1993, Leduc spoke about being a gay athlete in CBC Radio's documentary \"The Last Closet\", which aired on the weekly sports series \"The Inside Track\"; as he was not yet ready to officially come out, the interview was aired anonymously and recorded through a voice filter. Another Canadian athlete who would also subsequently come out as gay, Mark Tewksbury, also granted an anonymous interview to the same program. In 1994, Leduc officially came out as gay in the TV documentary \"For the Love of the Game\", one of the few boxers ever to do so. He also later volunteered as a speaker and mentor for various LGBT youth groups.\n\nHe attended Toronto’s Pride Parade in 1999 as grand marshal with Savoy Howe. Leduc worked for and volunteered with the Toronto People with AIDS Foundation, later becoming a set-builder and construction worker in the film industry.\n\nLeduc died on July 22, 2009 in Toronto. He had collapsed in the sauna of St. Marks Spa and doctors suggested that his death may have resulted from heat stroke.\n"}
{"id": "19251676", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19251676", "title": "Mating call", "text": "Mating call\n\nA mating call is the auditory signal used by animals to attract mates. It can occur in males or females, but literature is abundantly favored toward researching mating calls in males. In addition, mating calls are often the subject of mate choice, in which the preferences of one gender for a certain type of mating call can drive sexual selection in a species. This can result in sympatric speciation of some animals, where two species diverge from each other while living in the same environment.\n\nThere are many different mechanisms to produce mating calls, which can be broadly categorized into vocalizations and mechanical calls. Vocalizations are considered as sounds produced by the larynx and are often seen in species of birds, mammals, amphibians, and insects. Mechanical calls refer to any other type of sound that the animal produces using unique body parts and/or tools for communication with potential mates. Examples include crickets that vibrate their wings, birds that flap their feathers, and frogs that use an air sac instead of lungs.\n\nThe use of vocalizations is widespread in avian species and are often used to attract mates. Different aspects and features of bird song such as structure, amplitude and frequency have evolved as a result of sexual selection.\n\nLarge song repertoires are preferred by females of many avian species. One hypothesis for this is that song repertoire is positively correlated with the size of the brain's song control nucleus (HVC). A large HVC would indicate developmental success. In song sparrows, males with large repertoires had larger HVCs, better body condition and lower heterophil-to-lymphocyte ratios indicating better immune health. This supports the idea that song sparrows with large song repertoires have better lifetime fitness and that song repertoires are honest indicators of the male's \"quality\". Possible explanations for this adaptation include direct benefits to the female, such as superior parental care or territory defense, and indirect benefits, such as good genes for their offspring.\n\nJapanese bush warbler songs from island populations have an acoustically simple structure when compared to mainland populations. Song complexity is correlated with higher levels of sexual selection in mainland populations, showing that a more complex song structure is advantageous in an environment with high levels of sexual selection. Another example is in purple-crowned fairywrens; larger males of this species sing advertising songs at a lower frequency than smaller rival males. Since body size is a characteristic of good health, lower frequency calls are a form of honest signaling. Negative correlation between body size and call frequency is supported across multiple species within the taxa. In the rock sparrow, song frequency is positively associated with reproductive success. Slower song rate is associated with age and is preferred by females. Reproductive status of the individual is communicated through higher maximum frequency. There was also positive correlation between age and extra pair copulation frequency.\n\nBird calls are also known to continue after pair formation in several socially monogamous bird species. In one experimental population of zebra finches, there was increased singing activity by the male after breeding. This increase is positively correlated with the partner's reproductive investment. The female finches were bred in cages with two subsequent males that differed with varying amounts of song output. Females produced larger eggs with more orange yolks when paired with a male with a high song output. This suggests that the relative amount of song production in paired zebra finch males might function to stimulate the partner rather than to attract extra-pair females.\n\nDuring the breeding season, mammals will call out to the opposite sex. Male koalas that are bigger will let out a different sound than smaller koalas. The bigger males which are routinely sought out for are called sires. Females choose sires because of indirect benefits that their offspring could inherit, like larger bodies. Non-sires and females do not vary in their body mass and can reject a male by screaming or hitting him. Male-male competition is rarely exhibited in koalas.\nAcoustic signaling is a type of call that can be used from a significant distance encoding an organism's location, condition and identity. Sac-winged bats display acoustic signaling, which is often interpreted as songs. When females hear these songs, named a 'whistle', they call onto the males to breed with a screech of their own. This action is termed 'calling of the sexes'. Red deer and spotted hyenas along with other mammals also perform acoustic signaling.\nMost frogs use an air sac located under their mouth to produce mating calls. Air from the lungs channels to the air sac to inflate it, and the air sac resonates to produce a mating call. The larynx is larger and more developed in males, which causes their call to be louder and stronger\n\nIn the túngara frog, males use a whining call followed by up to seven clucks. Males who have a whine-cluck call are more successful in attracting females than males whose call is a whine alone. The ability to produce clucks is due to a specialized fibrous mass attached to the frog's vocal folds, creating an unusual vocalization similar to the two-voiced songs found in some birds.\n\nIn the common toad, sexual competition is driven in large part by fighting—successful males often physically displaced other males from the backs of a female in order to gain access to mating with that female. Larger males were more successful in such takeovers, and had higher reproductive success as a result. However, the vocalizations of these toads provide a reliable signal of body size and thus fighting ability, allowing contests for possession of females to be settled without risk of injury.\n\nWhile mating calls in insects are usually associated with mechanical mating calls, such as in crickets, several species of insects use vocalizations to attract mates. In the Asian corn borer, males emit clicking sounds that mimic the echolocation of bats which prey on the moths. They then take advantage of the female's \"freezing\" response to mate with the female.\n\nIn the Japanese lichen moth, however, the female is able to distinguish between the sounds made by males and those made by bats and other predators.As a result, the males use ultrasonic clicking as a more conventional mating signal, compared to the \"deceptive\" courtship song used in the Asian Corn Bearer.\n\nMating calls also take form through mechanical processes. Animals that are unable to vocalize their call may use their body to attract mates.\n\nIn the field cricket, \"Gryllus integer\", males rub their wings together to create a rapid trill that produces sound. Males individually vary in the durations of their trilling or, what is more sophisticatedly called, bout length. The bout length of each male is heritable and passed on to his future offspring. Also, females prefer to mate with males that have longer bout lengths. The end result is that males with longer bout lengths produce more offspring than males with shorter bout lengths.\n\nOther factors that influence the formation of these bout lengths include temperature and predation. In field crickets, males prefer warmer sites for mating as shown by an increase in the frequency of their mating calls when they were living in warmer climates. Predation also affects the mating calls of field crickets. When in a potentially dangerous environment, males cease calling for longer periods of time when interrupted by a predator cue. This suggests that there is an interplay between intensity of mating call and risk of predation.\n\nAs described in Sonation, \"the term sonate is described as the deliberate production of sounds, not from the throat, but rather from structures such as the bill, wings, tail, feet and body feathers, or by the use of tools\". In several amphibian and fish species, other special structures are used to produce different sounds to attract mates. Birds are common users of sonation, although several amphibian and fish species have been shown to use sonation as a form of mating call as well. In general, sonation is one factor that plays into how a female may choose a mate. There are other features of mating such as territory defense or mate defense, which contribute to the cause of finding suitable mates.\n\nAs outlined below, each species uses a distinct method to produce a non-vocal mating call in order to be most successful in attracting mates. The examples below represent the most common examples found in the literature, although many more examples may exist in nature that are still currently unknown.\nThe feathers, the beak, the feet, and different tools are all used by different bird species to produce mating calls to attract mates. For example, the snipe uses its feathers to produce a \"drumming\" sound to attract mates during a special mating dance. Snipes used specialized tail feathers to create a sound described as a \"rattle\" or \"throbbing\" noise. Palm cockatoos use sticks to drum on hollow trees, creating a loud noise to attract the attention of mates. Bustards are large, highly terrestrial birds that stamp their feet during mating displays to attract mates. \"Mirafra apiata\", commonly known as the Clapper lark, engages in a complex display flight that is characterized by the rattling of the wings.\n\nMany species of birds use sonation for mating calls such as manakins and hummingbirds. However, peacocks exhibit a feature of sonation that reveals intrasexual and intersexual properties of this type of mating call. Males move their feathers to produce low-frequency sonations (infrasound) and sonate more frequently in response to sonations by other males. This is attributable to a male's desire to advertise its presence above other males looking for mates, suggesting that sonation carries an intrasexual function. In addition, females show increased alertness when hearing the infrasound signals produced by males' wing-shaking, which highlights how the two sexes use sonation to interact with each other.\n\nWhile most bird species use their feathers, tools, or feet to produce sounds and attract mates, many fish species use specialized internal organs to sonate. In Gadoid fish, special muscles attached to the swimbladder assist in the production of knocking or grunting sounds to attract mates.\n\nIn many lepidoptera species including the adzuki bean borer (Ostrinia scapulalis), ultrasonic mating calls are used to attract females and keep them motionless during copulation. These pulses have an average frequency of 40 kHz.\n\nDifferences in mating calls can lead to the separation of different populations within a species. These differences can be due to several factors, including body size, temperature, and other ecological factors.These can arise in the form of tonal, temporal, or behavioral variations in mating calls that subsequently lead to the separation of populations. The separation of these populations due to differences in mating call and mating call preferences can lead to the evolution and creation of new, unique species.\n\nThis type of speciation is most often sympatric speciation: where two or more species are created from an existing parent species that all live in the same geographic location. Although there is an absence of research on mammals and birds, this phenomenon has been heavily researched in several frog species around the world. The examples below illuminate speciation due to mating call differences in several frog species around the world. These distinct species are included because they are the focus of the majority of current research. \nThese two species of narrow-mouthed frog live in the southern United States and have overlapping ranges in Texas and Oklahoma. Researchers have discovered that these two different species alter the frequencies of their call in the overlap zone of their ranges. For example, the \"Microhyla olivacea\" mating call has a significantly lower midpoint frequency in the overlap zone than the mating call outside this zone. This leads researchers to suggest that the differences in mating call in the overlap zone of \"M. olivacea and M. carolinensis\" act as an isolating mechanism between the two species. They also hypothesize that the evolution of these differences in mating call led to the separation of these two different frog species from one common species.\nFemale preferences for specific male mating calls can lead to sexual selection in mating calls. Females may prefer a specific type of call that certain males possess, in which only those males will be able to mate with females and pass on their genes and specific mating call. As a result, this female preference may lead to divergence of two species.\n\nIn Amazonian frogs, sexual selection for different calls has led to the behavioral isolation and speciation of the túngara frog (\"Engystomops petersi)\". From genetic and mating call analysis and, researchers were able to identify that two populations of the túngara frog were almost completely reproductively isolated. From their research, scientists believe that differences in female preferences for mating call type have led to the evolution of this speciation process. Specifically, the Yasuní population females prefer the male mating call that includes a whine, while the other population does not prefer this whine. Subsequently, the Yasuní males include the whine in their call, while the other males do not. For this reason, the differences in call have led to the mechanical separation of this species.\n\nSeveral studies have shown that the species \"Pseudacris triseriata\" (Chorus Frog) can be divided into two subspecies, \"P. t. maculata\" and \"P. t. triseriata,\" due to speciation events from mating call differences. The Chorus Frog has a very large home range, from New Mexico to Southern Canada. These two subspecies have an overlapping range from South Dakota to Oklahoma. In this overlapping range, both the call duration and the calls per second for each species is much different than outside of this range. This means that calls of these two subspecies are more similar outside of this range, and starkly different within the range. For this reason, scientists suggest that these subspecies evolved from differences in mating call type. Additionally, these subspecies are rarely recorded to have hybrid offspring, which further suggests that there is complete speciation due to mating call differences. The differences in mating calls also help to reinforce the speciation process.\n"}
{"id": "46382655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46382655", "title": "Maximilian Pilzer", "text": "Maximilian Pilzer\n\nMaximilian Pilzer (1890 - May 30, 1958) was a conductor and violinist. He was concertmaster of the New York Philharmonic orchestra.\n"}
{"id": "1529051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1529051", "title": "Michael Llewelyn Davies", "text": "Michael Llewelyn Davies\n\nMichael Llewelyn Davies (16 June 1900 – 19 May 1921) was – along with his four brothers – the inspiration for J. M. Barrie's characters Peter Pan, the Darling brothers, and the Lost Boys. Late in life, his only surviving brother Nico described him as \"the cleverest of us, the most original, the potential genius.\" He drowned in ambiguous circumstances with a close friend – and possible lover – just short of his 21st birthday. He was a first cousin of English writer Daphne du Maurier.\n\nDavies was the fourth of five sons of Arthur and Sylvia Llewelyn Davies. He was born three years after Barrie became friends with his older brothers and mother in 1897. He and his eldest brother George were the boys closest to Barrie, and he is widely reported as the individual who most influenced the portrayal of Peter Pan in the 1911 novel based on the play. He was an infant as Barrie was writing the first appearance of Peter Pan as a newborn in \"The Little White Bird\". He was four and a half years old when \"Peter Pan, or The Boy Who Wouldn't Grow Up\" debuted in December 1904. The following winter, he was ill for several months, so in February 1906 Barrie and producer Charles Frohman brought scenery and some of the cast to the family's home in Berkhamsted to perform the play for him. Barrie began writing a sequel to \"Peter Pan\" about the boy's brother, to be entitled \"Michael Pan\", but instead incorporated this material (such as the hero's nightmares) into the novel \"Peter and Wendy\".\n\nThe statue of Peter Pan in Kensington Gardens, erected in secret during the night of 30 April 1912, was supposed to be modelled upon photographs of Michael Llewelyn Davies at the age of six, dressed as the character. However, sculptor George Frampton used a different child as his model, leaving Barrie very disappointed with the result. \"It doesn't show the devil in Peter,\" the writer said.\n\nBarrie became guardian of Davies and his brothers following the deaths of their father in 1907 and mother in 1910. Davies and Barrie remained very close as Davies grew up and went away to school, particularly after his eldest brother George died in combat in Flanders during World War I in 1915. His youngest brother Nico later described Michael and George as \"the Ones\", the boys who meant the most to Barrie. Davies attended Eton College, where he had difficulty adjusting to life away from his family, and he exchanged letters daily with \"Uncle Jim\" Barrie. He also suffered from nightmares, which he had experienced since childhood. Nonetheless, he made a number of friends and excelled at his studies, including art and writing poetry, and was described as a \"brilliant boy\", one destined for great things.\n\nAfter finishing at Eton, Davies attended Christ Church, Oxford, where he continued to correspond regularly with Barrie. He briefly decided to study art at the University of Paris, but returned to Oxford. Several friends from Eton joined him there, but he also became very close to Rupert Buxton, the son of Sir Thomas Fowell Victor Buxton, 4th Baronet and a former pupil of Harrow School. The two became inseparable friends, spending time both at the university and on holiday together. Buxton was also a poet, and had an interest in acting. Buxton was one of the few friends of Davies whom Barrie reported getting along with.\n\nIn an interview taped in 1976, Conservative politician Robert Boothby, who had been a close friend of Davies at Eton and Oxford, spoke about Davies' relationships during this time. When asked if Davies were homosexual, Boothby – who was reported by newspapers to have had homosexual relationships as an adult – replied it was \"a phase... I think he might have come out of it.\" Boothby also said, \"I don't think Michael had any girlfriends, but our friendship wasn't homosexual. I believe it was – fleetingly – between him and Senhouse\". (Roger Senhouse was a friend of Davies at both Eton and Oxford.) Boothby reported that he had discouraged Davies' relationship with Buxton, warning of \"a feeling of doom\" he had about him. Although Boothby criticised the relationship between Davies and his surrogate father Barrie as \"morbid\" and \"unhealthy\", he dismissed the notion that there was a sexual aspect to it. But he volunteered that there had been a sexual relationship between Davies and Buxton.\n\nShortly before Davies's 21st birthday, he and Buxton drowned together in Sandford Lasher, a pool of water downstream of a weir near Sandford Lock on the River Thames, a few miles from Oxford.\n\nThe closeness of Davies and Buxton, combined with the uncertain circumstances of their deaths, led to speculation that the pair had died in a suicide pact. Dangerous currents in Sandford Lasher had made the pool notorious as a drowning hazard – there were warning signs and a conspicuous, 19th century memorial to previous victims. Despite this, the pair had gone swimming there before.\n\nThe water was deep, but calm. Buxton was a good swimmer, but Davies had a fear of water and could not swim effectively. A witness at the coroner's inquest reported that one man was swimming to join the other, who was sitting on a stone on the weir, but he experienced \"difficulties\" and the other dived in to reach him. However, the witness also reported, when he saw their heads together in the water they did not appear to be struggling. Their bodies were recovered \"clasped\" together the next day (sometimes misreported later as \"tied together\"). The coroner's conclusion was Davies had drowned accidentally, and Buxton had drowned trying to save him.\n\n\"The Oxford Magazine\" published the following in an obituary for the pair: \nTwo House men whose loss would have been more widely and more deeply mourned, it would be impossible to find. They were intimate friends, and in their death they were not divided. It is we who must learn to live without them.\nBarrie wrote a year later that Davies's death \"was in a way the end of me.\"\n\nDavies's brothers Peter and Nico each later acknowledged suicide as a likely explanation, as did Barrie. Although Boothby, in 1976, described Buxton as having \"an almost suicidal streak about him\", he did not take a definite stand on whether Buxton had died trying to save Davies and/or impulsively joined him going under, or whether they had in fact died as the result of a suicide pact.\n\nIn the 1978 BBC mini-series \"The Lost Boys\", he is portrayed at various ages by Sebastian Buss, Paul Spurrier, Alexander Buss, Charles Tatnall, and William Relton.\n\nThe 1988 play \"The Death of Peter Pan\" (by Australian playwright Barry Lowe) is based on Davies's life and focuses on his relationship with Rupert Buxton.\n\nIn the 2004 film \"Finding Neverland\" he is portrayed by Luke Spill.\n"}
{"id": "49214312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49214312", "title": "Murder of Allison Baden-Clay", "text": "Murder of Allison Baden-Clay\n\nAllison June Baden-Clay (\"née\" Dickie; 1 July 1968 – 19 April 2012) was an Australian woman whose body was discovered on 30 April 2012, ten days after she was reported missing by her husband Gerard. On 13 June 2012, Gerard was charged with murder and interfering with a corpse. On 15 July 2014, he was found guilty and given a life sentence. Gerard appealed the conviction and on 8 December 2015, it was downgraded to manslaughter. In August 2016, the High Court of Australia re-instated the murder conviction.\n\nGerard Robert Baden-Clay was born Gerard Clay in Bournemouth, England, on 9 September 1970. His family migrated to Rhodesia in 1980, where they changed their family name to \"Baden-Clay\" to associate the family with his father's grandfather, Lord Baden-Powell of Scouting fame. Gerard Baden-Clay would later use other pseudonyms in his increasingly secret fantasy life. The Baden-Clay family later migrated to Australia. Allison June Dickie married Gerard on 23 August 1997.\n\nAt 7:30 am on Friday, 20 April 2012, Gerard reported Allison missing from their home at 593 Brookfield Road, Brookfield, Queensland. He claimed she went for a walk at 10 pm the night before and had not returned home. On 30 April, a woman's body was found by a canoeist at Kholo Creek, Anstead, about from the Baden-Clay home in Brookfield. The following day, the body was confirmed to be Allison. Her funeral was held in Ipswich on 11 May.\n\nOn 13 June 2012, Gerard was formally interviewed at Indooroopilly police station and charged with Allison's murder and for interfering with her corpse. He maintained his innocence and said he would \"be strenuously defending the charges\". Gerard's bail application was denied on 22 June because Justice David Boddice said he posed a \"significant flight risk\".\n\nThe trial began in the Brisbane Supreme Court on 10 June 2014. Gerard pleaded not guilty to the charges. On 15 July, he was found guilty of murdering Allison and disposing her body. He was given a life sentence with a non-parole period of fifteen years.\n\nOn 7 August 2015, Gerard appealed his conviction. On 8 December, his conviction was downgraded to manslaughter. In an unusual move, the Queensland Director of Public Prosecutions appealed against the downgrade. On 31 August 2016, the High Court of Australia restored the original trial murder conviction. In February 2017, Allison's father was appointed the executor of her estate. It was ruled that Gerard Baden-Clay was not entitled to any benefits from her death.\n\nThe Allison Baden-Clay Foundation was launched on 31 July 2015. Its aim is to \"create a Queensland community that acknowledges the prevalence of domestic and family violence\".\n\nIn March 2018, the first annual scholarship in Allison's memory for an aspiring ballet dancer was announced by the Queensland premier, Annastacia Palaszczuk, who had known Allison as a child.\n\n"}
{"id": "3883945", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3883945", "title": "O. J. Simpson murder case", "text": "O. J. Simpson murder case\n\nThe O. J. Simpson murder case (officially titled People of the State of California v. Orenthal James Simpson) was a criminal trial held at the Los Angeles County Superior Court in which former National Football League (NFL) player, broadcaster, and actor O. J. Simpson was tried on two counts of murder for the June 12, 1994, deaths of his ex-wife, Nicole Brown Simpson, and her friend, Ron Goldman. On the morning of June 13, 1994, they were found stabbed to death outside Brown's condominium in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles. Simpson was a person of interest in their murders. He did not turn himself in, and on June 17 he became the object of a low-speed pursuit in a white 1993 Ford Bronco SUV owned and driven by Al Cowlings. TV stations interrupted coverage of the 1994 NBA Finals to broadcast the incident live. It was watched by an estimated audience of 95 million people. The pursuit, arrest, and trial were among the most widely publicized events in American history. The trial, often characterized as the trial of the century because of its international publicity similar to that of Sacco and Vanzetti and the Lindbergh kidnapping, spanned eleven months, from the jury's swearing-in on November 9, 1994. Opening statements were made on January 24, 1995, and the verdict was announced on October 3, 1995, when Simpson was acquitted on both counts of murder. Following his acquittal, no additional arrests or convictions related to the murders have been made. According to the newspaper \"USA Today\", the case has been described as the \"most publicized\" criminal trial in history.\n\nSimpson was represented by a very high-profile defense team, also referred to as the \"Dream Team\", which was initially led by Robert Shapiro and subsequently directed by Johnnie Cochran. The team also included F. Lee Bailey, Alan Dershowitz, Robert Kardashian, Shawn Holley, Carl E. Douglas, and Gerald Uelmen. Barry Scheck and Peter Neufeld were two additional attorneys who specialized in DNA evidence.\n\nDeputy District Attorneys Marcia Clark and Christopher Darden believed they had a strong case against Simpson, but Cochran was able to convince the jurors that there was reason to doubt the DNA evidence provided by the State, which was a relatively new form of evidence in trials at that time. The reasonable doubt theory included evidence that the blood sample had allegedly been mishandled by lab scientists and technicians, and there were questionable circumstances that surrounded other court exhibits. Cochran and the defense team also alleged other misconduct by the LAPD related to systemic racism and the actions of Detective Mark Fuhrman. Simpson's celebrity status, racial issues, and the lengthy televised trial riveted national attention. By the end of the trial, national surveys showed dramatic differences in the assessment of Simpson's guilt or innocence between black and white Americans.\n\nImmediate reaction to the verdict was notable for its division along racial lines: a poll of Los Angeles County residents showed that most African Americans there felt that justice had been served by the \"not guilty\" verdict, while the majority of whites and Latinos expressed an opinion that it had not.\n\nAfter the trial, the Brown and Goldman families filed a civil lawsuit against Simpson. On February 4, 1997, the jury unanimously found Simpson responsible for both deaths. The families were awarded compensatory and punitive damages totaling $33.5 million ($ million in dollars), but have received only a small portion of that.\n\nO.J. Simpson and Nicole Brown were married on February 2, 1985, five years after Simpson's retirement from professional football. The couple had two children, Sydney Brooke Simpson (b. 1985) and Justin Ryan Simpson (b. 1988). Their marriage lasted seven years, during which time Simpson was investigated multiple times by police for domestic violence and pleaded no contest to spousal abuse in 1989. Brown filed for divorce on February 25, 1992, citing \"irreconcilable differences\" as the reason. Still, the abuse continued; Brown called 9-1-1 on 25 October 1993, crying and saying that \"[Simpson] is going to beat the shit out of me\".\n\nAt 12:10 a.m. on June 13, 1994, Nicole Brown and Ron Goldman were found murdered outside of Nicole's Bundy Drive condominium in the Brentwood area of Los Angeles, California. She had been stabbed multiple times in the head and neck, and had defensive wounds on her hands. Her larynx could be seen through the gaping wound in her neck, and vertebra C3 was incised; her head remained barely attached to the body. Both victims had been dead for about two hours prior to being discovered by police. Robert Riske, one of the first two officers on the scene, found a single bloody glove, among other evidence.\n\nDetectives went to Simpson's Brentwood estate to inform him that Nicole had been murdered. Detective Mark Fuhrman climbed over an external wall and unlocked the gate to allow the other three detectives to enter as well. The detectives argued that they entered without a search warrant because of exigent circumstances – specifically, in this case, out of fear that Simpson might have been injured also. Simpson was not present when the detectives arrived early that morning; he had taken a flight to Chicago late the previous night. Detectives briefly interviewed Kato Kaelin, who was staying in Simpson's guest house. In a walk-around of the premises, Fuhrman discovered a second bloody glove; it was later determined to be the match of the glove found at the murder scene. Through DNA testing, the blood on this one was determined to have come from both victims. This, together with other evidence collected at both scenes, was determined to be probable cause to issue an arrest warrant for Simpson.\n\nSimpson, while waiting in his bedroom, invited longtime friend and police officer Ron Shipp for a private discussion; Simpson jokingly told him, \"To be honest, Shipp, I've had some dreams about killing her.\"\n\nLawyers convinced the LAPD to allow Simpson to turn himself in at 11 a.m. on June 17, 1994, although the double murder charge meant that no bail would be set and a first-degree murder conviction could result in a death penalty. More than 1,000 reporters waited for Simpson at the police station, but he did not arrive. At 2 p.m., the LAPD issued an all-points bulletin. At 5 p.m., Robert Kardashian, a friend of Simpson's and one of his defense lawyers, read a letter by Simpson to the media. In the letter, Simpson sent greetings to 24 friends and wrote, \"First everyone understand I had nothing to do with Nicole's murder ... Don't feel sorry for me. I've had a great life.\" Some interpreted this as a suicide note; Simpson's mother Eunice collapsed after hearing it, and reporters joined the search for Simpson. Simpson's lawyer Robert Shapiro was present at Kardashian's press conference and said that Simpson's psychiatrists agreed with the suicide note interpretation. Through television, Shapiro appealed to Simpson to surrender.\n\nNews helicopters searched the Los Angeles highway system for Simpson's white Ford Bronco. At around 6:20 p.m., a motorist in Orange County notified police after seeing Simpson riding in the Bronco, driven by his longtime friend Al \"A.C.\" Cowlings. The police tracked calls placed from Simpson on his cell phone. At 6:45 p.m., police officer Ruth Dixon saw the Bronco head north on Interstate 405. When she caught up to it, Cowlings yelled out that Simpson was in the back seat of the vehicle and had a gun to his own head. The officer backed off, but followed the vehicle at , with up to 20 police cars following her in the chase.\n\nMore than nine news helicopters eventually joined the pursuit; the high degree of media participation caused camera signals to appear on incorrect television channels. The chase was so long that one helicopter ran out of fuel, forcing its station to ask another for a camera feed. Radio station KNX-AM also provided live coverage of the low-speed pursuit. USC sports announcer Peter Arbogast and station producer Kash Limbach contacted former USC football coach John McKay to go on the air and encourage Simpson to end the pursuit. McKay agreed and asked Simpson to pull over and turn himself in instead of committing suicide; \"My God, we love you, Juice. Just pull over and I'll come out and stand by you all the rest of my life\", he promised.\n\nLAPD detective Tom Lange, who had previously interviewed Simpson about the murders on June 13, realized that he had Simpson's cell phone number and called him repeatedly. A colleague hooked a tape recorder up to Lange's phone and captured a conversation between Lange and Simpson in which Lange repeatedly pleaded with Simpson to \"throw the gun out [of] the window\" for the sake of his mother and children. Simpson apologized for not turning himself in earlier that day and responded that he was \"the only one who deserved to get hurt\" and was \"just gonna go with Nicole.\" Cowlings' voice is overheard in the recording (after the Bronco had arrived at Simpson's home surrounded by police) pleading with Simpson to surrender and end the chase peacefully. During the pursuit, and without having a chance to hear the taped phone conversation, Simpson's friend Al Michaels interpreted his actions as an admission of guilt.\n\nABC, NBC, CBS and CNN, as well as local news outlets, interrupted regularly scheduled programming to cover the incident, with an estimated 95 million viewers nationwide; only 90 million had watched that year's Super Bowl. While NBC continued coverage of Game 5 of the NBA Finals between the New York Knicks and the Houston Rockets at Madison Square Garden, the game appeared in a small box in the corner while Tom Brokaw covered the chase. The chase was covered live by ABC anchors Peter Jennings and Barbara Walters on behalf of the network's five news magazines, which achieved some of their highest-ever ratings that week. Benefiting from the event occurring in the evening, Domino's Pizza stated that its pizza delivery sales during the chase were as large as on Super Bowl Sunday.\n\nThousands of spectators and on-lookers packed overpasses along the procession's journey, waiting for the white Bronco. In a festival-like atmosphere, many had signs urging Simpson to flee. They and the millions watching the chase on television felt part of a \"common emotional experience\", one author wrote, as they \"wonder[ed] if O. J. Simpson would commit suicide, escape, be arrested, or engage in some kind of violent confrontation. Whatever might ensue, the shared adventure gave millions of viewers a vested interest, a sense of participation, a feeling of being on the inside of a national drama in the making.\" \"Sports Illustrated\" later commented the chase and subsequent hoopla was \"\"The Sugarland Express\" meets \"The Fugitive\"\".\n\nSimpson reportedly demanded that he be allowed to speak to his mother before he would surrender. The chase ended at 8:00 p.m. at his Brentwood estate, later, where his son, Jason, ran out of the house, \"gesturing wildly\", and 27 SWAT officers awaited. After remaining in the Bronco for about 45 minutes, Simpson was allowed to go inside for about an hour; a police spokesman stated that he spoke to his mother and drank a glass of orange juice, causing reporters to laugh. Shapiro arrived, and Simpson surrendered to authorities a few minutes later. In the Bronco, police found \"$8,000 in cash, a change of clothing, a loaded .357 Magnum, a passport, family pictures, and a fake goatee and mustache.\" Neither the footage of the Bronco chase nor the items found in the Bronco were shown to the jury as evidence in the trial.\n\nAs Simpson was driven away, he saw the crowds, many of whom were African Americans, cheering him; Simpson said, \"What are all these niggers doing in Brentwood?\"\n\nOn June 20, Simpson was arraigned and pleaded not guilty to both murders. As expected, the presiding judge ordered that Simpson be held without bail. The following day, a grand jury was called to determine whether to indict him for the two murders. Two days later, on June 23, the grand jury was dismissed as a result of excessive media coverage, which could have influenced its neutrality. Jill Shively, a Brentwood resident who testified that she saw Simpson speeding away from the area of Nicole's house on the night of the murders, told the grand jury that the Bronco almost collided with a Nissan at the intersection of Bundy and San Vicente Boulevard. Another grand jury witness, a cutlery salesman named Jose Camacho, said he had sold Simpson a 15-inch (380  mm) German-made knife, similar to the murder weapon, three weeks before the killings. Shively and Camacho were not presented by the prosecution at the criminal trial because they had sold their stories to the tabloid press. Shively had talked to the television show \"Hard Copy\" for $5,000, while Camacho sold his story to the \"National Enquirer\" for $12,500.\n\nRather than a grand jury hearing, authorities held a probable cause hearing to determine whether or not to bring Simpson to trial. This was a minor victory for Simpson's lawyers because it would give them access to evidence as it was being presented by the prosecution in contrast to the procedure in a grand jury hearing. After a week-long court hearing, California Superior Court Judge Kathleen Kennedy-Powell ruled on July 7 that there was sufficient evidence to bring Simpson to trial for the murders. At his second arraignment on July 22, when asked how he pleaded to the murders, Simpson, breaking a courtroom practice that says the accused may plead using only the words \"guilty\" or \"not guilty,\" firmly stated: \"Absolutely, one hundred percent, not guilty.\"\nDistrict Attorney Gil Garcetti elected to file charges in downtown Los Angeles, as opposed to Santa Monica, where the crime took place. The decision would prove to be highly controversial, especially after Simpson was acquitted. It likely resulted in a jury pool with more blacks, Latinos, Asian-Americans, and blue-collar workers than would have been found from Santa Monica.\n\nThe prosecution decided not to seek the death penalty and instead sought a life sentence. Deputy District Attorney Marcia Clark was designated as the lead prosecutor. Deputy District Attorney Christopher Darden became Clark's co-counsel. Simpson wanted a speedy trial, and the defence and prosecuting attorneys worked around the clock for several months to prepare their cases. In October 1994, Judge Lance Ito started interviewing 304 prospective jurors, each of whom had to fill out a 75-page questionnaire. On November 3, twelve jurors were seated with twelve alternates.\n\nThe trial began on January 24, 1995, and was televised by Court TV, and in part by other cable and network news outlets, for 134 days. Darden argued that Simpson killed his ex-wife in a jealous rage; the prosecution opened its case by playing a 9-1-1 call from Nicole Brown Simpson on January 1, 1989, in which she expressed fear that Simpson would physically harm her, and he could be heard yelling at her in the background. Other material related to domestic violence was presented including another 9-1-1 phone call that Nicole made on October 25, 1993 expressing the same thing and Simpson also could be be heard shouting in the background, less than eight months before the murders. The prosecution also presented dozens of expert witnesses to place Simpson at the scene of the crime, on subjects ranging from DNA profiling to blood and shoeprint analysis.\n\nDuring the opening weeks of the trial, the prosecution presented evidence that Simpson had a history of physically abusing Nicole. Simpson's lawyer Alan Dershowitz argued that only a tiny fraction of women who are abused by their spouses are murdered. Within days after the start of the trial, lawyers and those viewing the trial from a single closed-circuit TV camera in the courtroom saw an emerging pattern: continual and countless interruptions with objections from both sides of the courtroom, as well as one sidebar conference after another with the judge, beyond earshot of the unseen jury located just below and out of the camera's frame.\n\nAccording to media reports, Clark thought that women, regardless of race, would sympathize with the domestic violence aspect of the case and connect with her personally. On the other hand, the defense's research suggested that women generally were more likely to acquit than men, and that jurors did not respond well to Clark's combative style of litigation. The defense also speculated that black women would not be as sympathetic as white women to the victim, who was white, because of tensions about interracial marriages. Both sides accepted a disproportionate number of female jurors. From an original jury pool of 40% white, 28% black, 17% Hispanic, and 15% Asian, the final jury for the trial had ten women and two men, of which there were nine blacks, two whites, and one Hispanic.\n\nAt the start of trial, twelve jurors and twelve alternates were selected from a pool of 250 potential jurors. Over the course of the trial ten were dismissed for a wide variety of reasons. Only four of the original jurors remained on the final panel. During the middle of the trial, a number of the jurors staged what the media called a \"revolt.\" After being sequestered for 101 days, thirteen of the eighteen jurors refused to enter the courtroom until they were granted a meeting with Judge Ito. Eventually, the jury returned with thirteen members wearing black or dark-colored clothing in what was described as a \"funeral procession.\"\n\nThe prosecution believed it had a strong case despite the lack of known witnesses to the crime and the failure to recover the murder weapon. Clark's case was supported by DNA evidence, and she expected a conviction. From the physical evidence that was collected, the prosecution claimed that Simpson drove to Brown's house on the evening of June 12 with the intention of killing her. They maintained that Brown had put their two children to bed and was getting ready to go to bed herself when she opened the front door of her house after either responding to a knock on the front door or hearing a noise outside. Simpson allegedly grabbed her before she could scream and attacked her with a knife. Forensic evidence from the Los Angeles County coroner alleged that Goldman arrived at the front gate to the townhouse sometime during the assault, and the assailant apparently attacked him and stabbed him repeatedly in the neck and chest with one hand while restraining him with an arm chokehold. Brown was found lying face down when authorities arrived at the crime scene. According to the prosecution's account, after Simpson had finished with Goldman, he pulled Brown's head back using her hair, put his foot on her back, and slit her throat with the knife, severing her carotid artery. They argued further that Simpson left a \"trail of blood\" from the condo to the alley behind it; there was also testimony that three drops of Simpson's blood were found on the driveway near the gate to his house on Rockingham Drive.\n\nAccording to the prosecution, Simpson was last seen in public at 9:36 p.m. that evening when he returned to the front gate of his house with Kaelin, a bit-part actor and family friend who had been given the use of a guest house on Simpson's estate. Simpson was not seen again until 10:54 p.m. – an hour and eighteen minutes later – when he came out of the front door of his house to a waiting limousine he had hired to take him to Los Angeles International Airport to fly to a Hertz convention in Chicago. The defense and prosecution both agreed that the murders took place between 10:15 and 10:40 p.m., with the prosecution alleging that Simpson had driven his Bronco during the required five minutes to and from the murder scene. They presented a witness in the vicinity of Bundy Drive who saw a car similar to Simpson's Bronco speeding away from the area at 10:35 p.m.\n\nLimousine driver Allan Park testified that he arrived at Simpson's estate at 10:24 p.m. Driving past the Rockingham gate, he did not see Simpson's Bronco parked at the curb. Park testified that he had been looking for and had seen the house number, and the prosecution presented exhibits to show that the position in which the Bronco was found the next morning was right next to the house number (implying that Park would surely have noticed the Bronco if it had been there at that time). According to Simpson's version of events, the Bronco had been parked in that position for several hours. Meanwhile, Kaelin was in his guest house and on the telephone to his friend, Rachel Ferrara. Park parked opposite the Ashford Street gate, then drove back to the Rockingham gate to check which driveway would have the best access for the limo. Deciding that the Rockingham entrance was too tight, he returned to the Ashford gate and began to buzz the intercom at 10:40, getting no response. Park got out of the limo and looked through the Ashford gate and saw that the house was dark with no lights on, except for a dim light coming from one of the second floor windows, which was Simpson's bedroom. While smoking a cigarette, Park made a series of phone calls from his cellular to the pager of his boss, Dale St. John, and then to Park's home, trying to get St. John's home phone number from his mother in an attempt to get the phone number for Simpson's house. At approximately 10:50, Kaelin (who was still on the phone to Ferrara) heard three thumps against the outside wall of his guest house. Kaelin hung up the phone and ventured outside to investigate the noises, but decided not to venture directly down the dark south pathway from which the thumps had originated. Instead, he walked to the front of the property and saw Park's limo outside the Ashford gate.\n\nAt the same time Park saw Kaelin come from the back of the property to the front, he testified that directly behind Kaelin a short distance away that he saw \"a tall black man\" of Simpson's height and build enter the front door of the house from the driveway area, after which lights were turned on and Simpson finally answered Park's call. Simpson explained that he had overslept and would be at the front gate soon. Kaelin opened the Ashford gate to let Park drive the limo onto the estate grounds, and Simpson came out of his house through the front door a few minutes later. Both Kaelin and Park helped Simpson put his belongings (which were already outside the front door when Park drove up to the front of Simpson's house) into the trunk of the limo for the ride to the airport. Both Kaelin and Park remarked in their testimony that Simpson looked agitated. But other witnesses, including the ticket clerk at LAX who checked Simpson onto the plane and a flight attendant, said that Simpson looked and acted perfectly normal. Conflicting testimony such as this was to be a recurring theme throughout the trial.\n\nSimpson's initial claim that he was asleep at the time of the murders was refuted by several different accounts. According to defense lawyer Johnnie Cochran, Simpson had never left his house that night, and he was alone as he packed his belongings to travel to Chicago. Cochran claimed that Simpson went outside through the back door to hit a few golf balls into the children's sandbox in the front garden, one or more of which made the three loud thumps on the wall of Kaelin's bungalow. Cochran produced a potential alibi witness, Rosa Lopez, a neighbor's Spanish-speaking housekeeper who testified that she had seen Simpson's car parked outside his house at the time of the murders. However, Lopez's account, which was not presented to the jury, was pulled apart under intense cross-examination by Clark, when she was forced to admit that she could not be sure of the precise time she saw Simpson's Bronco outside his house.\n\nThe defense tried to convince the jury that Simpson was not physically capable of carrying out the murders, saying that Goldman was a fit young man who put up a fierce struggle against his assailant. Simpson was a 46-year-old former professional football player with chronic arthritis, and had scars on his knees from old football injuries. However, Clark produced into evidence an exercise video that Simpson made a few months before the murders titled \"O.J. Simpson Minimum Maintenance: Fitness For Men,\" which showed that, despite some physical conditions and limitations, Simpson was anything but frail.\n\nThe prosecution called Brown's sister, Denise, to the witness stand. She tearfully testified to many episodes of domestic violence in the 1980s, when she saw Simpson pick up his wife and hurl her against a wall, then physically throw her out of their house during an argument. The prosecution then called Karen Lee Crawford, the manager of the Mezzaluna restaurant where Brown ate on the night she was murdered. Crawford recounted that Brown's mother phoned the restaurant at 9:37 p.m. about a pair of lost eyeglasses. Crawford found them and put them in a white envelope. Goldman left the restaurant at 9:50 p.m. after his shift, taking the glasses to drop them off at Brown's house.\n\nBrown's neighbor, Pablo Fenjves, testified about hearing a \"very distinctive barking\" and \"plaintive wail\" of a dog at around ten to fifteen minutes after 10:00 p.m. while he was at home watching the news on television. Eva Stein, another neighbor, testified about very loud and persistent barking, also at around 10:15 p.m., that kept her from going back to sleep. Neighbor Steven Schwab testified that while he was walking his dog in the area near Brown's house at around 11:30 p.m., he noticed Brown's wandering and agitated Akita dog trailing its leash. He saw that it had bloody paws, but after examining it, he found the dog uninjured. Schwab said he took the dog to a neighbor friend of his, Sukru Boztepe, before taking it into his home where it became more agitated. Boztepe took the dog for a walk at approximately 12:00 midnight and testified that it tugged on its leash and led him to Brown's house. There he discovered Brown's dead body. Minutes later, Boztepe flagged down a passing patrol car.\n\nRiske, the first officer at the crime scene, testified that he found a barefoot woman in a black dress lying face down in a puddle of blood on the walkway that led to the front door of her house. He next saw Goldman's body a short distance away, lying on its side beside a tree and off the walkway. Riske said he saw a white envelope, which was later found to contain the glasses left at the restaurant by Brown's mother. He also saw Goldman's beeper, a black leather glove, and a dark blue knit ski cap on the ground near the bodies. The front door of Brown's house was wide open, but there were no signs of forced entry nor any evidence that anyone had entered the premises. Nothing inside was out of the ordinary.\n\nOn Sunday, February 12, 1995, a long motorcade traveled to Brentwood and the jurors, prosecutors, defense lawyers, and Judge Ito made a two-hour inspection of the crime scene. It was followed by a three-hour tour of Simpson's estate. Simpson was under guard by several officers but did not wear handcuffs; he waited outside the crime scene in and around an unmarked police car and was permitted to enter his house.\n\nDetective Ron Phillips testified that when he called Simpson in Chicago to tell him of his ex-wife's murder, he sounded shocked and upset, but did not ask about how she died. Lange testified that Brown was probably killed first because the soles of her bare feet were clean, implying that she was struck down to the ground before any blood flowed. This was a key point that suggested Simpson might have set out to kill Brown, whereas Goldman appeared to have inadvertently stumbled upon the scene, prompting Simpson to kill him as well. In cross-examining Lange, Cochran proposed two hypotheses for what happened at the murder scene. First, he suggested that one or more drug dealers encountered Brown while looking for her friend and house guest, Faye Resnick, an admitted cocaine abuser. In the second hypothesis, Cochran suggested that \"an assassin, or assassins,\" followed Goldman to Brown's house to kill him.\n\nThe prosecution offered circumstantial evidence to show Simpson's guilt.\n\n\nSamples from bloody shoe prints leading away from the bodies and from the back gate of the condo were tested for DNA matches. Initial polymerase chain reaction testing did not rule out Simpson as a suspect. In more precise restriction fragment length polymorphism tests, matches were found between Simpson's blood and blood samples taken from the crime scene (both the shoe prints in blood and the gate samples). Fung testified that this DNA evidence put Simpson at Brown's townhouse at the time of the murders. But defense expert Barry Scheck conducted an eight-day cross-examination questioning most of the DNA evidence. Dr. Robin Cotton, of Cellmark Diagnostics, testified for six days. Blood evidence had been tested at two separate laboratories, each conducting different tests. At this time, the general population was still unfamiliar with the precision and significance of DNA matching.\n\nIt emerged during the cross-examination of Fung and the other laboratory scientists that LAPD scientist Andrea Mazzola (who collected blood samples from Simpson to compare with evidence from the crime scene) was a trainee who carried the vial of Simpson's blood around in her lab coat pocket for nearly a day before handing it over as an exhibit. While two errors had been found in the history of DNA testing at Cellmark, one of the testing laboratories, in 1988 and 1989, the errors were found during quality control tests and had not occurred since. One of the companies hired for DNA consulting by Simpson's defense had made the same error as found in 1988. What should have been the prosecution's strong point became their weak link, amid defense accusations that police technicians handled the blood samples with such a degree of incompetence as to render the delivery of accurate and reliable DNA results almost impossible. The prosecution argued that they had made the DNA evidence available to the defense for its own testing, and if the defense attorneys disagreed with the prosecution's tests, they could have conducted their own testing on the same samples. The defense had chosen not to accept the prosecution's offer.\n\nOn May 16, Gary Sims, a California Department of Justice criminalist who helped establish their DNA laboratory, testified that a glove found at Simpson's house tested positive for a match of Goldman's blood.\n\nIn March 1995, Fuhrman testified to driving over to Simpson's house to question him on the night of the murders. After getting no response when buzzing the intercom of the house, which appeared empty, he scaled one of the outer walls to enter the property. He found blood marks on the driveway of the house, as well as a black leather glove on the premises near the location of Kaelin's bungalow. It was later found to have the blood of both murder victims on it, as well as Simpson's, matched through DNA analysis.\n\nDespite an aggressive cross-examination by F. Lee Bailey, Fuhrman denied on the stand that he was racist or had used the word \"nigger\" to describe black people in the ten years prior to his testimony. However, a few months later, the defense played audio tapes of Fuhrman repeatedly using the word – 41 times, in total. The tapes had been made between 1985 and 1994 by a young North Carolina screenwriter named Laura McKinney, who had interviewed Fuhrman at length for a screenplay she was writing on police officers. The Fuhrman tapes became one of the cornerstones of the defense's case that Fuhrman's testimony lacked credibility.\n\nWith the jury absent, Fuhrman was called back to the witness stand by the defense to answer more questions about the discovery of the blood marks and leather glove that he found on Simpson's property. When questioned by attorney Gerald Uelmen, Fuhrman, with his lawyer standing by his side, invoked the Fifth Amendment to avoid self-incrimination and further questioning after his integrity was challenged. The prosecution told the jury in closing arguments that Fuhrman was a racist, but said that this should not detract from the factual evidence that showed Simpson's guilt. Fuhrman's testimony resulted in his indictment on one count of perjury; he later pleaded no contest.\n\nFuhrman has stated that he is not a racist and apologized for his previous use of racist language. Many of his minority former coworkers have expressed support for him.\n\nOne dark leather glove was found at the crime scene, with its match found near Kaelin's guest house behind Simpson's estate. Kaelin testified that he had heard \"thumps in the night\" in the same area around the guest house the night of the murder. Brown had bought Simpson two pairs of this type of glove in 1990. Both gloves, according to the prosecution, contained DNA evidence from Simpson, Brown and Goldman. The glove at Simpson's house also contained a long strand of blonde hair similar to Brown's.\n\nOn June 15, 1995, Bailey goaded Darden into asking Simpson to put on the leather glove that was found at the scene of the crime. The prosecution had earlier decided against asking Simpson to try on the gloves because the glove had been soaked in blood from Simpson, Brown and Goldman, and frozen and unfrozen several times. The leather glove seemed too tight for Simpson to put on easily, especially over the sanitary gloves he wore underneath. Uelmen came up with, and Cochran repeated, a quip he had used several times in relation to other points in his closing arguments: \"If it doesn't fit, you must acquit\". \n\nOn June 22, 1995, Darden told Judge Ito of his concerns that Simpson \"has arthritis and we looked at the medication he takes and some of it is anti-inflammatory and we are told he has not taken the stuff for a day and it caused swelling in the joints and inflammation in his hands\". However, this theory was debunked by Cochran who informed Judge Ito on the record the next day that Shawn Chapman contacted the Los Angeles County Jail doctor who confirmed Simpson was taking his medication every day and that the jail’s medical records verified this. \nHe said Simpson “takes his medicine every day and that he has never at any time not taken his medicine for his rheumatoid arthritis, sulfathiazole I think it's called, and that the records at the jail so indicate that. And I think that the record should be made clear in that regard. And we took the further statement, as I said, to talk to Dr. Johnson this morning who verifies that fact also. So I felt compelled to indicate that to the Court.”\nThe prosecution also stated their belief that the glove shrank from having been soaked in blood and later testing. They presented a photo during the trial of Simpson earlier wearing the same type of glove that was found at the crime scene.\n\nProsecutors claimed that the presence of Simpson's blood at the crime scene was the result of blood dripping from cuts on the middle finger of his left hand. Police had noted his wounds and asserted that these were suffered during the fatal attack on Goldman. However, the defense showed that none of the gloves retrieved at the crime scene had any cuts in them. Plus, both prosecution and defense witnesses testified that they did not see cuts or wounds of any kind on Simpson's hands in the hours after the murders took place. The defense alleged that Fuhrman may have planted the glove at Simpson's house after taking it from the crime scene. The analysis that found that the hair could be Brown's was not reliable. The prosecution contended that the glove had not been moved. They noted that by the time Fuhrman had arrived at the Simpson home, the crime scene at Brown's home had already been combed over by several officers for almost two hours, and none had noticed a second glove at the scene. In his first round of testimony, Fuhrman answered \"no\" when asked by Bailey if he had planted any evidence at Simpson's house. In his second round of testimony after the tapes had been revealed, Fuhrman took the Fifth Amendment when asked the same question by Uelmen.\n\nIn May 2008, Mike Gilbert, one of Simpson's former sports agents, released his book \"How I Helped O.J. Get Away with Murder\", in which he revealed that the gloves did not\nfit because, on his advice, Simpson had stopped taking his arthritis medicine, which made his hands swell.\n\nOn September 8, 2012, Darden accused Cochran of tampering with the glove before the trial. Dershowitz, a member of the Simpson defense team, refuted the claim, stating \"the defense doesn't get access to evidence except under controlled circumstances.\"\n\nIn closing arguments, Darden ridiculed the notion that police officers might have wanted to frame Simpson. He questioned why, if the LAPD was against Simpson, they went to his house eight times on domestic violence calls against Brown between 1986 and 1988 but did not arrest him; they only arrested him on charges of abuse in January 1989 (when photos of Brown's face were entered into the record). Darden noted the police did not arrest Simpson for five days after the 1994 murders.\n\nIn Cochran's summation to the jury, he emphasized that Fuhrman was proved to have repeatedly referred to African-Americans as \"niggers\" and also to have boasted of beating young African-Americans in his role as a police officer. Cochran's rhetoric was later criticized by Shapiro and by at least one juror, as well as Goldman's father, Fred Goldman. Cochran called Fuhrman \"a genocidal racist, a perjurer, America's worst nightmare and the personification of evil\". Fuhrman later pleaded no contest to a felony charge of perjury, which had arisen from his testimony in Simpson's trial.\n\nFears grew that race riots would erupt across Los Angeles and the rest of the country if Simpson was convicted of the murders, similar to the riots in 1992 which occurred after the acquittal of four police officers for the beating of black motorist Rodney King (King's beating was captured on an amateur video). As a result, all Los Angeles police officers were put on 12-hour shifts. The police arranged for more than 100 police officers on horseback to surround the Los Angeles County courthouse on the day the verdict was announced, in case of rioting by the crowd.\n\nSimpson hired a team of high-profile defense lawyers, including Bailey, Kardashian, Shapiro, Dershowitz, Cochran, Uelmen (then the dean of law at Santa Clara University), Carl E. Douglas and Shawn Holley. Two attorneys specializing in DNA evidence, Scheck and Peter Neufeld, were hired to attempt to discredit the prosecution's DNA evidence. They argued that Simpson was the victim of police fraud and what they termed as sloppy internal procedures, which had contaminated the DNA evidence. Simpson's defense was said to have cost between US$3 million and $6 million. Simpson's defense team, dubbed the \"Dream Team\" by reporters, argued that Fuhrman had planted evidence at the crime scene. LAPD criminalists Fung and Mazzola were subject to strong scrutiny.\n\nSimpson's defense sought to show that one or more hit men hired by drug dealers had murdered Brown and Goldman – giving both \"Colombian neckties\" – because they were looking for Brown's friend, Faye Resnick, a known cocaine user who had failed to pay for her drugs. However, Judge Ito barred testimony about Resnick's drug use. She had stayed for several days at Brown's condo until entering rehab four days before the killings. Ito stated that the defense had failed to provide sufficient direct or circumstantial evidence that the scenario was possible, indicating: \"I find that the offer of proof regarding motive to be highly speculative.\" Consequently, he prohibited Christian Reichardt from testifying about his former girlfriend Resnick's drug problems.\n\nAt 10:07 a.m. on October 3, 1995, Simpson was acquitted on both counts of murder. The only testimony reviewed was that of limo driver Alan Park, who had said that he did not see Simpson's Bronco outside of his estate when he arrived to pick him up after the murders occurred. The jury arrived at the verdict by 3:00 p.m. on October 2, after four hours of deliberation, but Judge Ito postponed the announcement.\n\nBefore the verdict, President Bill Clinton was briefed on security measures if rioting occurred nationwide due to the verdict. An estimated 100 million people worldwide watched or listened to the verdict announcement. Long-distance telephone call volume declined by 58%, and trading volume on the New York Stock Exchange decreased by 41%. Water usage decreased as people avoided using bathrooms. So much work stopped that the verdict cost an estimated $480 million in lost productivity.\n\nThe U.S. Supreme Court received a message on the verdict during oral arguments, with the justices quietly passing the note to each other while listening to the attorney's presentation. Congressmen canceled press conferences, with one telling reporters, \"Not only would you not be here, but I wouldn't be here, either\".\n\nIn post-trial interviews, a few of the jurors said that they believed Simpson probably did commit the murders, but that the prosecution had failed to prove the case beyond a reasonable doubt. Three jurors together wrote and published a book called \"Madam Foreman,\" in which they described how their perception of police errors, not race, led to their verdict. They said that they considered Darden to be a token black assigned to the case by the prosecutor's office.\n\nCritics of the jury's not-guilty verdict contended that the deliberation time was unduly short in comparison to the length of the trial. Some said that the jurors, most of whom did not have any college education, did not understand the forensic evidence. After the verdict was read, juror number six, 44-year-old Lionel Cryer, gave Simpson a black power raised fist salute. \"The New York Times\" reported that Cryer was a former member of the revolutionary nationalist Black Panther Party that prosecutors had \"inexplicably left on the panel\".\n\nIn 1996, Cochran wrote and published a book about the trial. It was titled \"Journey to Justice,\" and described his involvement in the case. That same year, fellow defense attorney Shapiro also published a book about the trial, entitled \"The Search for Justice.\" He criticized Bailey as a \"loose cannon\" and Cochran for bringing race into the trial. In contrast to Cochran's book, Shapiro said that he does not believe that Simpson was framed by the LAPD for racial reasons, but believed the verdict was correct due to reasonable doubt.\n\nClark published a book about the case titled \"Without a Doubt\" (1998). Her book recounts the trial proceedings, from jury selection to final summation. She concluded that nothing could have saved her case, given the defense's strategy of highlighting racial issues related to Simpson and the LAPD, and the predominance of blacks on the jury. In Clark's opinion, the prosecution's factual evidence, particularly the DNA, should have easily convicted Simpson. That it did not, she says, attests to a judicial system compromised by issues of race and celebrity.\n\nFormer Los Angeles County Deputy District Attorney Vincent Bugliosi wrote a book titled \"\" (1997). Bugliosi was very critical of Clark and Darden, faulting them, among other reasons, for not introducing the note that Simpson had written before trying to flee. He contended that the note \"reeked\" of guilt and that the jury should have been allowed to see it. He also noted that the jury was never informed about items found in the Bronco. The prosecution said that they felt these items of evidence would bring up emotional issues on Simpson's part that could harm their case, despite the fact that the items seemed as though they could be used for fleeing. Bugliosi also said the prosecutors should have gone into more detail about Simpson's domestic abuse; that the prosecution should have presented evidence contrary to the defense's assertion that Simpson was a leader in the black community; and criticized the prosecution's closing statements as inadequate. Bugliosi also criticized the prosecution for trying the murder in Los Angeles rather than Santa Monica. During the jury selection process, the defense made it difficult for the prosecution to challenge potential black jurors, on the grounds that it is illegal to dismiss someone from the jury for racially motivated reasons. (California courts barred peremptory challenges to jurors based on race in \"People v. Wheeler\", years before the U.S. Supreme Court would do so in \"Batson v. Kentucky\").\n\nDistrict Attorney Garcetti's supporters noted that the decision to move the trial was made by the Los Angeles Superior Court Presiding Judge, and not by Garcetti. The trial was moved due to security concerns at the smaller facility and the poor physical condition of the Santa Monica Courthouse. In a 2010 review, the \"Metropolitan News-Enterprise\" said that Garcetti had \"micromanaged\" the trial, and that he had decided to have Simpson try on the gloves in open court that had been recovered at the murder scene and at Simpson's estate. Also, pundits criticized the prosecution for calling Fuhrman to the witness stand in the first place; they criticized the prosecution for lack of due diligence, which should have discovered his earlier racist statements. The D.A.'s office argued that the defense would have called Fuhrman anyway and that no one knew of the existence of the McKinney tapes until after the trial started.\n\nDiscussion of the racial elements of the case continued long after the trial's end. Some polls and commentators have concluded that many blacks, while having their doubts as to Simpson's innocence, were more inclined to be suspicious of the credibility and fairness of the police and the courts, and thus more likely to question the evidence. The LAPD had a history of abusing African-Americans in the city, which was emphasized in the Rodney King case. After the civil verdict against Simpson, most whites surveyed said they believed justice had been served. Most blacks (75%) disagreed with the verdict and believed that it was racially motivated. An NBC poll taken in 2004 reported that, although 77% of 1,186 people sampled thought Simpson was guilty, only 27% of blacks in the sample believed so, compared to 87% of whites. The Simpson case continues to be assessed through the lens of race. In 2016, \"FiveThirtyEight\" reported that most black people now think Simpson was guilty.\n\nAccording to a 2016 poll, 83% of white Americans and 57% of black Americans believe Simpson was guilty of the murders.\n\nThe murders and trial – \"the biggest story I have ever seen\", said a producer of NBC's \"Today\" – received extensive media coverage from the very beginning; at least one instant book was proposed two hours after the bodies were found, and scheduled to publish only a few weeks later. The \"Los Angeles Times\" covered the case on its front page for more than 300 days after the murders. The Big Three television networks' nightly news broadcasts gave more air time to the case than to the Bosnian War and the Oklahoma City bombing combined. The media outlets served an enthusiastic audience; one company put the loss of national productivity from employees following the case instead of working at $40 billion. \"The Tonight Show with Jay Leno\" aired many skits on the trial, and the Dancing Itos – a troupe of dancers dressed as the judge – was a popular recurring segment.\n\nParticipants in the case received much media coverage. Fans approached Clark at restaurants and malls, and when she got a new hairstyle during the trial, the prosecutor received a standing ovation on the courthouse steps; \"People\" approved of the change, but advised her to wear \"more fitted suits and tailored skirts\". While Cochran, Bailey, and Dershowitz were already well known, others like Kaelin became celebrities, and Resnick and Simpson's girlfriend Paula Barbieri appeared in \"Playboy\". Those involved in the trial followed their own media coverage; when Larry King appeared in the courtroom after a meeting with Ito, both Simpson and Clark praised King's talk show. Interest in the case was worldwide; Russian president Boris Yeltsin's first question to President Clinton when they met in 1995 was, \"Do you think O.J. did it?\".\n\nThe issue of whether or not to allow any video cameras into the courtroom was among the first issues Judge Ito had to decide, ultimately ruling that live camera coverage was warranted. Ito would be later criticized for this decision by other legal professionals. Dershowitz said that he believed that Ito, along with others related to the case such as Clark, Fuhrman, and Kaelin, was influenced to some degree by the media presence and related publicity. The trial was covered in 2,237 news segments from 1994 through 1997. Ito was also criticized for allowing the trial to become a media circus and not doing enough to regulate the court proceedings as well as he could have.\n\nAmong the reporters who covered the trial daily from the courtroom and a media area they dubbed \"Camp O.J.\" were Steve Futterman of CBS News, Linda Deutsch and Michael Fleeman of the Associated Press, Dan Whitcomb of Reuters, Janet Gilmore of the Los Angeles Daily News, Andrea Ford of the Los Angeles Times, Michelle Caruso of the New York Daily News, Dan Abrams of Court TV, Harvey Levin of KCBS and David Margolick of the New York Times. Writers Dominick Dunne, Joe McGinniss and Joseph Bosco also had full-time seats in the courtroom.\nOn June 27, 1994, \"Time\" published a cover story, \"An American Tragedy,\" with a photo of Simpson on the cover. The image was darker than a typical magazine image, and the \"Time\" photo was darker than the original, as shown on a \"Newsweek\" cover released at the same time. \"Time\" became the subject of a media scandal. Commentators found that its staff had used photo manipulation to darken the photo, and speculated it was to make Simpson appear more menacing. After the publication of the photo drew widespread criticism of racist editorializing and yellow journalism, \"Time\" publicly apologized.\n\nIn the February 1998 issue of \"Esquire\", Simpson was quoted as saying, \"Let's say I committed this crime… Even if I did this, it would have to have been because I loved her very much, right?\" \n\nIn April 1998, Simpson did an interview with talk show host Ruby Wax. As a joke, Simpson shows up at her hotel room, and waved a banana about his head, as if it were a knife, and pretended to stab Ruby with it. The footage soon made its way onto the US TV networks, causing predictable outrage.\n\nIn 1996, Fred Goldman and Sharon Rufo, the parents of Ron Goldman, filed a civil suit against Simpson for wrongful death, while Brown's estate, represented by her father Lou Brown, brought suit against Simpson in a \"survivor suit.\" The trial took place over four months in Santa Monica and, by judge's order, was not televised. The Goldman family was represented by Daniel Petrocelli, with Simpson represented by Bob Baker. Attorneys for both sides were given high marks by observing lawyers. Simpson's defense in the trial was estimated to cost $1 million and was paid for by an insurance policy on his company, Orenthal Enterprises.\n\nFuhrman was not called to testify, and Simpson was subpoenaed to testify on his own behalf. In addition, a photo of Simpson, taken while he was attending a Buffalo Bills game in 1993, was presented at trial that showed him wearing Bruno Magli shoes, the same type of shoes which investigators said the killer of Goldman and Brown was wearing when the murders were committed. The photo was presented as evidence against him, as Simpson had previously denied ever wearing such shoes.\n\nThe jury in the civil trial awarded Brown and Simpson's children, Sydney and Justin (Brown's only children), $12.6 million from their father as recipients of their mother's estate. The victims' families were awarded $33.5 million in compensatory and punitive damages, thereby finding Simpson \"responsible\" for the respective murders. In 2008, a Los Angeles superior court approved the plaintiffs' renewal application on the civil court judgment against Simpson.\n\nFour years after the trial, at an auction to pay some of the money in the compensation order, Bob Enyart, a conservative Christian radio host, paid $16,000 for some of Simpson's memorabilia, including his Hall of Fame induction certificate, two jerseys, and two trophies he was given for charity work. Enyart took the items outside the courthouse where the auction was held, burned the certificate and jerseys, and smashed the trophies with a sledgehammer.\n\nIn November 2006, ReganBooks announced a book ghostwritten by Pablo Fenjves based on interviews with Simpson titled \"If I Did It\", an account which the publisher said was a hypothetical confession. The book's release was planned to coincide with a Fox special featuring Simpson. \"This is a historic case, and I consider this his confession\", publisher Judith Regan told the Associated Press. On November 20, News Corporation, parent company of ReganBooks and Fox, canceled both the book and the TV interview due to a high level of public criticism. CEO Rupert Murdoch, speaking at a press conference, stated: \"I and senior management agree with the American public that this was an ill-considered project.\"\n\nLater, the Goldman family was awarded rights to the book to partially satisfy the civil judgment against Simpson. The title of the book was changed to \"If I Did It: Confessions of the Killer.\" On the front cover of the book, the title was stylized with the word \"If\" to appear much smaller than those of \"I Did It\", and placed inside the \"I\", so unless looked at very closely, the title of the book reads \"I Did It: Confessions of the Killer\".\n\nOn March 11, 2018, Fox broadcast Simpson's previously unaired interview with Regan which was part of the book deal in a special titled \"O.J. Simpson: The Lost Confession?\" In the decade-old interview, which was supposed to air with the release of the book by ReganBooks, Simpson gave a very detailed hypothesis on how the murders would have been committed if he had been involved, initially using phrases like \"I would\" and \"I'd think\", but later moved to using first person phrasing with sentences like \"I remember I grabbed the knife\", \"I don't remember except I'm standing there\", \"I don't recall\", and \"I must have.\" Due to the change in phrasing, these comments were interpreted by many as being a form of confession, which stirred strong reactions in print media and the internet.\n\nIn 2007, as a result of an incident in Las Vegas, Nevada, regarding an attempt to reacquire materials Simpson claimed were stolen from him, Simpson was convicted of multiple felonies including use of a deadly weapon to commit kidnapping, burglary and armed robbery, and sentenced to a minimum nine years to a maximum 33 years in prison. His attempts to appeal that sentence were unsuccessful and he resided at Lovelock Correctional Center in Lovelock, Nevada. During his 2013 parole hearing, Simpson was granted parole on all counts except weapons-related and the two counts of assault with a deadly weapon. After a July 20, 2017, Nevada parole board hearing voting unanimously 4–0, Simpson was granted parole after a minimum nine-year sentence on the remaining counts for the Vegas robbery with Sunday, October 1, 2017, to be his release date from prison on parole. According to Nevada law if he continues his good behavior, Simpson will have his 33-year sentence reduced by 50% to make September 29, 2022, the end of his sentence. Upon release, Simpson intends to reside near his family in Miami, Florida. Goldman's father and sister, Fred and Kim, did not appear before the board, but stated that they had received about 1% of the $33.5 million that Simpson owes from the wrongful death civil suit.\n\nSimpson has participated in two high-profile interviews regarding the case – one in 1996 with Ross Becker, which outlines Simpson's side of the story, as well as a guided tour of his estate, where evidence used in the trial was found. The second took place in 2004, on the ten-year anniversary of the murders, with Katie Couric for NBC speaking to Simpson. He had worked for that network as a sports commentator.\n\nIn May 2008, Mike Gilbert, a former agent and friend of Simpson, released his book \"How I Helped O.J. Get Away with Murder\", which details Simpson confessing to the killings to Gilbert. Gilbert states that Simpson had smoked marijuana, taken a sleeping pill and was drinking beer when he confided at his Brentwood home weeks after his trial what happened the night of the murders. Simpson said, \"If she hadn't opened that door with a knife in her hand... she'd still be alive.\" This, Gilbert said, confirmed his belief that Simpson had confessed.\n\nIn March 2016, the LAPD announced a knife had been found in 1998 buried at Simpson's estate, when the buildings were razed. A construction worker had given the knife to a police officer, who, believing the case had been closed, did not submit it as evidence at the time. Forensic tests demonstrated that the knife was not related to the murder.\n\nIt can be argued that the presence of Kardashian on Simpson's legal team, combined with the press coverage of the trial, would ultimately be the catalyst for the ongoing popularity of the Kardashian family. While Kardashian's ex-wife Kris Jenner was already married to former Olympic gold medalist Bruce Jenner at the time of the trial, Kardashian's family was mostly out of the public eye before the trial, only becoming famous due to the trial.\n\nAlthough no one else was charged, and evidence points to Simpson's guilt, the murders continue to be the subject of research and speculation. For example, Detective William Dear conducted a lengthy investigation, and his evidence and conclusions, among those of other experts (e.g., Dr. Henry Lee) who have reviewed the crime, trial, and evidence, were addressed in the BBC documentary, \"O.J.: The True Untold Story\" (2000). The documentary, produced by Malcolm Brinkworth, claims that the police and prosecution had contaminated or planted evidence pointing to Simpson as the killer, and ignored exculpatory evidence. Furthermore, it asserts that the state too hastily eliminated other possible suspects, including Simpson's elder son Jason, and individuals linked to the illegal drug trade, in which Brown, Goldman, and Resnick allegedly participated.\n\nAlternative theories of the murders, supposedly shared by Simpson, have suggested they were related to the Los Angeles drug trade, and that Michael Nigg, a friend and co-worker of Goldman, was murdered as well. Simpson himself has stated in numerous interviews that he believes the two had been killed over their involvement in drug dealing in the area, and that other murders at the time were carried out for the same reason. Brown, Simpson believed, had been planning to open a restaurant using proceeds from cocaine sales. Mezzaluna Trattoria, where she ate her last meal, and where both Nigg and Goldman had worked, was reportedly a nexus for drug trafficking in Brentwood.\n\nBrett Cantor, part-owner of the Dragonfly nightclub in Hollywood, was found stabbed to death in his nearby home on July 30, 1993; no suspects have ever been identified. The case gained renewed attention a year later when O.J. Simpson's defense team successfully petitioned the court trying him for the murders of Nicole Brown Simpson, his ex-wife, and Ronald Goldman, for access to the case file, on the grounds that the way in which all three were stabbed suggested the same killer. Since Goldman had worked for Cantor as a waiter, and Nicole Simpson was a regular at Dragonfly, some books about the case have raised the possibility that the three killings may also have resulted from involvement in drug trafficking.\n\nMichael Nigg, an aspiring actor and waiter at a Los Angeles restaurant, was shot and killed during an attempted robbery on 8 September 1995 while withdrawing money from an ATM. Three suspects were arrested a month later but released for lack of evidence and the case remains unsolved. Since Nigg was a friend of Ronald Goldman, with whom he had worked, and seemed to live quite well for someone in his position, leading to some reports that he was involved in drug trafficking, his death has been used to support theories that the murders of Goldman and O.J. Simpson's ex-wife Nicole the year before were drug-related as well.\n\nIn 2012, several links between the killings and convicted murderer Glen Edward Rogers were alleged in the documentary film \"My Brother the Serial Killer\", which was broadcast on Investigation Discovery (ID). Clay Rogers, Glen's brother, recounts Glen talking about how he had met Brown and was \"going to take her down\" a few days before the murders happened in 1994. When the murder case was under process, Van Nuys ADA Lea D'Argostino came to know about a written statement from Glen revealing he had met Brown. The information was forwarded to Simpson's prosecutors, but was ignored. Much later, in his years-long correspondence with criminal profiler Anthony Meolis, Glen also wrote about and created paintings pointing towards his involvement with the murders. During a personal prison meeting between the two, Glen said he was hired by Simpson to break into Brown's house and steal some expensive jewelry, and that Simpson had told him: \"you may have to kill the bitch\". In a filmed interview, Glen's brother Clay asserts that his brother confessed his involvement. Rogers' family stated that he had informed them that he had been working for Nicole in 1994 and that he had made verbal threats about her to them. Rogers would later speak to a criminal profiler about the Goldman-Simpson murders, providing details about the crime and remarking that he had been hired by O. J. Simpson to steal a pair of earrings and potentially murder Nicole.\n\n\"The Shocking Case of O.J. Simpson\", released September 29, 2017, was episode 10 of season 2 of BuzzFeed web series, \"BuzzFeed Unsolved: and discussed those theories.\n\nNew York Times best selling author and journalist Stephen Singular was approached about the O.J. Simpson murder case a few weeks after the murders from an anonymous source within the LAPD. Singular acquired the attention of this source through his book Talked to Death: The Life and Murder of Alan Berg. Alan Berg was a Jewish radio talk show host who was murdered by a white supremacist, Neo-Nazi group called The Order (white supremacist group). According to the anonymous source, the same type of white supremacist Neo-Nazi’s who murdered Alan Berg could be found within the LAPD. \n\nSingular’s source gave him multiple, specific pieces of information regarding the Simpson case. The source told him about an LAPD detective named Mark Fuhrman and that he had a history of racism, antisemitism, and planting evidence. According to this source, Fuhrman used a piece of broken fence as a stick to pick up one of two bloody gloves found at the Bundy crime scene and place it in a blue plastic bag. Fuhrman then subsequently removed the bloody glove from the plastic bag and planted it at O.J. Simpson’s Rockingham estate in order to frame him. Singular’s source told him that prior to this, Fuhrman and another detective made an undocumented trip to Simpson's Rockingham estate in the early morning looking for evidence that would incriminate Simpson but they didn’t find any. Rosa Lopez, a housekeeper for Simpson’s next door neighbor, testified to hearing men’s voices coming from the yard of the Rockingham estate at around midnight. A plastic bag was eventually recovered from Rockingham and a broken piece of fence was eventually recovered from the Bundy crime scene, and both were introduced as evidence in the trial. \n\nFuhrman had been aware of the violence in the Simpson marriage, having responded to a domestic violence call made by Nicole Brown Simpson almost a decade earlier at the Rockingham estate. He also was disgusted by interracial couples and said if he saw a black man and a white woman in a car together, he would pull them over and would find a reason for them to be in trouble. Singular was also told that Fuhrman had been acquainted with Brown in some way and it was later revealed in transcripts of interviews conducted by investigators from the LAPD's Internal Affairs Division, that two deputy district attorneys were told by a detective of the LAPD's 77th Division that Fuhrman told two officers that he had been intimate with Brown and also bragged about seeing her boob job. \n\nSingular was also told that a vial of Simpson’s blood was in the possession of another LAPD detective for several hours before booking it into evidence. This detective would later be revealed to be Phillip Vannatter. According to Singular’s source, blood from this vial was deposited at the Bundy crime scene and at Rockingham. The source also told Singular that the presence of the anticoagulant Ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid, also known as EDTA, would be found in some of the blood evidence if tested and that some lab technicians had also mishandled Simpson’s blood samples. Singular relayed this information from his source to the defense team and was in communication with them for a couple of months, way before the trial began. Afterwards, he wrote a book called \"Legacy of Deception: An Investigation of Mark Fuhrman and Racism in the L.A.P.D.\" about his experience.\n\nSuch theories have been refuted by Clark, Brown's sister Tanya, and Fred Goldman who said, \"I believe [O.J.] did it, and he did it alone\".\n\nThe families of Brown and Goldman expressed anger at the premise of \"My Brother the Serial Killer\", with both families dismissing the claims by the Rogers family. Kim Goldman accused ID of irresponsibility, stating that no one had informed her of Glen Rogers' claims that he had been involved in her brother's death.\n\nID's president, Henry Schlieff, replied that the documentary's intention was not to prove that Rogers had committed the crimes, but to \"give viewers new facts and let them make up their own minds,\" and that he believed that Simpson was guilty of the murders. Schlieff also commented that the movie did not point out any inconsistencies with the claims or evidence against Rogers because \"ID viewers are savvy enough to root them out on their own.\"\n\nAccording to \"\" director Ezra Edelman, no plausible alternative theory has emerged.\n\nEpisodes of sitcoms, such as \"The Simpsons\", \"Family Guy\", \"\" and \"Seinfeld\" (\"The Big Salad\", \"The Caddy\"), have mocked the case, or more specifically, Simpson himself.\n\nR&B group H-Town dedicated their album \"Ladies Edition, Woman's World\" (1997) to Brown, to help victims of domestic violence.\n\nRapper Eminem referenced the murders in his 1999 song \"Role Model\", saying, \"Me and Marcus Allen went over to see Nicole, When we heard a knock at the door, must have been Ron Gold. Jumped behind the door, put the orgy on hold, Killed them both and smeared blood in a white Bronco (We Did It)\".\n\nThe 2002 song \"Lifestyles of the Rich and Famous\", by American punk-pop band Good Charlotte includes the lyrics, \"You know if you're famous you can kill your wife? There's no such thing as 25 to life, as long as you got the cash to pay for Cochran\", in reference to the \"Not Guilty\" verdict which, many believe, wouldn't have been the case if Simpson hadn't appointed Cochran as his lead attorney.\n\nRapper Jay Z also referenced the trial in a song named \"The Story Of O.J\" which revolves around the case and the influence of systematic racism on the trial.\n\nHip hop artist Magneto Dayo released a 2013 \"diss track\" song titled \"OJ Simpson\" in which he insults his ex-girlfriend/artist V-Nasty, by referencing the Simpson murder case. The song's lyrics were also added to the \"Houston Press\" list of \"The 15 Most Messed-Up O.J. Simpson Lyrics\".\n\nThe suit Simpson wore when he was acquitted on October 3, 1995 was donated by Simpson's former agent Mike Gilbert to the Newseum in 2010. The Newseum has multiple trial related items in their collection, including press passes, newspapers and the mute button that Superior Court Judge Lance Ito used when he wanted to shut off the live microphone in court so lawyers could talk privately during the trial. The museum's acquisition of the suit ended the legal battle between Gilbert and Fred Goldman, both of whom claimed the right to the clothing.\n\nThe Bronco from the famous police chase was on display at the Alcatraz East Crime Museum in Pigeon Forge, Tennessee as of late 2016.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7755735", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7755735", "title": "Odd Aalen", "text": "Odd Aalen\n\nOdd Olai Aalen (born 6 May 1947, in Oslo) is a Norwegian statistician and a professor at the Department of Biostatistics at the Institute of Basic Medical Sciences at the University of Oslo.\n\nAalen completed his examen artium in 1966 at Oslo Cathedral School before studying first mathematics and physics and then statistics in which he graduated at the University of Oslo in 1972.\n\nHis research work is geared towards applications in biosciences. Aalen's early work on counting processes and martingales, starting with his 1976 Ph.D. thesis at the University of California, Berkeley, has had profound influence in biostatistics. Inferences for fundamental quantities associated with cumulative hazard rates, in survival analysis and models for analysis of event histories, are typically based on the Nelson–Aalen estimator or appropriate related statistics. The Nelson–Aalen estimator is related to the Kaplan-Meier estimator and generalisations thereof.\n\nAalen is currently the leader of the Centre for Biostatistical Modelling in the Medical Sciences at the Faculty of Medicine at the University of Oslo.\n\nHe is an elected member of the Norwegian Academy of Science and Letters.\n\n"}
{"id": "18452651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18452651", "title": "Pedro Luis de Borja Lanzol de Romaní", "text": "Pedro Luis de Borja Lanzol de Romaní\n\nPedro Luis de Borja Lanzol de Romaní, O.S.Io.Hieros. (1472 – 4 October 1511) was a Roman Catholic cardinal and cardinal-nephew and papal military leader. He received a wide variety of sinecures during the papacy of his great-uncle, Pope Alexander VI, but was exiled to Naples on the election of Borja rival Pope Julius II. Borja also fought with the Knights Hospitaller in Jerusalem and Rhodes.\nHe was born in Valencia, Spain, the third of the eight children of Jofré de Borja Lanzol de Romaní and Juana Moncada in 1472. In his early military career, he became a Knight of the Order of St. John of Jerusalem and Knight of Rhodes. When he tried to take Fray Francisco de Boxols's post as the priorate of the Order in Catalonia in 1498, Ferdinand II of Aragon (\"Fernando the Catholic\") through his ambassador in Rome attempted to have Borja's appointment annulled; Borja was instead made Prior of the Order in Santa Eufemia.\n\nOn March 20, 1500, his grand uncle Pope Alexander VI created him cardinal deacon \"in pectore\"; Borja's cardinalate was published during another consistory on September 28, 1500, and he was formally given the Red Hat on October 2, 1500; effective October 5, 1500, his deaconry was S. Maria in Via Lata.\n\nWhile already a cardinal, Borja was elected archbishop of Valencia, a post he would hold until his death, on July 29, 1500, succeeding his brother, Juan. Borja would never visit the diocese as archbishop; instead he took possession of it through a procurator, Guillem Ramón de Centelles, on August 29, 1500. There is no evidence that he was ever consecrated, although he received the post of penitentiary major on the condition that he receive priestly ordination, which he did in 1502, assuming the post on December 7, 1503; he would remain penitentiary until his death. After his ordination, he became cardinal priest S. Marcello on December 7, 1503, retaining his deaconry (and its revenues) \"in commendam\".\n\nThrough the influence of his grand uncle, Borja also was given the titles of Governor of Spoleto (August 10, 1500), Governor of Bagnoregio, Abbot \"commendatario\" of the Cistercian monastery of Valdigna, and of the Benedictine monastery of S. Simpliciano in Milan. Alexander VI's bull creating the University of Valencia on January 23, 1501, is attributed to Borja's influence.\n\nWhen Borja reached Rome on June 17, 1501 (through the \"Popolo\" gate), he was received by his brother Rodrigo, the captain of the Palatine Guard.\n\nAs a cardinal elector, he participated in the papal conclaves of September and October 1503. The latter elected Pope Julius II, despite the opposition of Borja, and Julius II proceeded to detain Cesare Borgia, causing Pedro to flee Rome on December 20, 1503, along with Cardinal Francisco de Remolins. With him he came to Naples.\n\nJulius II invited Borja to return to Rome on January 2, 1504, and freed his cousin Cesare from jail so that he could join him in Naples in April. A February 3, 1504, letter from the Spanish monarchs to their ambassador in Rome inquired whether the pope was amenable to Borja and Remolins in Naples, shortly after which rumors of Borja circulated in Spain. He later became the archpriest of the Basilica di Santa Maria Maggiore in Rome (May 1510). King Fernando wrote again requesting that a successor archbishop be named without his nomination. Upon hearing similarly false news of the death of Julius II, Borja and Remolins together set out for Rome.\n\nBorja died on October 4, 1511, by falling from a horse while returning from Rome to Naples. He was buried in the church of S. Pier Celestino in Rome without a funerary monument.\n\n"}
{"id": "286012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=286012", "title": "Platonic love", "text": "Platonic love\n\nPlatonic love (often lower-cased as platonic) is a term used for a type of love, or close relationship that is non-sexual. Its symbol would be the white rose. It is named after Greek philosopher Plato, though the philosopher never used the term himself. Platonic love as devised by Plato concerns rising through levels of closeness to wisdom and true beauty from carnal attraction to individual bodies to attraction to souls, and eventually, union with the truth. This is the ancient, philosophical interpretation. Platonic love is often contrasted with romantic love.\n\nPlatonic love is examined in Plato's dialogue, the \"Symposium\", which has as its topic the subject of love or Eros generally. It explains the possibilities of how the feeling of love began and how it has evolved—both sexually and non-sexually. Of particular importance is the speech of Socrates, who attributes to the prophetess Diotima an idea of platonic love as a means of ascent to contemplation of the divine. The step of this ascent is known as the \"Ladder of Love\". For Diotima, and for Plato generally, the most correct use of love of human beings is to direct one's mind to love of divinity. Socrates defines love based on separate classifications of pregnancy (to bear offspring); pregnancy of the body, pregnancy of the soul, and direct connection to Being. Pregnancy of the body results in human children. Pregnancy of the soul, the next step in the process, produces \"virtue\" – which is the soul (truth) translating itself into material form. \"[...] virtue for the Greeks means self-sameness [...] in Plato's terms, Being or idea.\"(106) \n\nIn short, with genuine platonic love, the beautiful or lovely other person inspires the mind and the soul and directs one's attention to spiritual things. Pausanias, in Plato's \"Symposium\" (181b–182a), explained two types of love or Eros—Vulgar Eros or earthly love and Divine Eros or divine love. Vulgar Eros is nothing but mere material attraction towards a beautiful body for physical pleasure and reproduction. Divine Eros begins the journey from physical attraction, i.e. attraction towards beautiful form or body but transcends gradually to love for Supreme Beauty. This concept of Divine Eros is later transformed into the term platonic love. Vulgar Eros and Divine Eros are both connected and part of the same continuous process of pursuing totality of being itself, with the purpose of mending human nature, eventually reaching a point of unity where there is no longer an aspiration to change. \"Eros is [...] a moment of transcendence [...] in so far as the other can never be possessed without being annihilated in its status as the other, at which point both desire and transcendence would cease [...] (84) \n\nIn the \"Symposium\", Eros is discussed as a Greek god – more specifically, the king of the gods, with each guest of the party giving a eulogy in praise of Eros. This view of Eros is different from how a modern person would interpret it. Most modern people would think of Eros as a concept rather than a god. This is an example of cultural relativity, because the modern interpretation of the term is different from the ancient Greek interpretation.\"So this is how I assert that Eros is the oldest, most honorable, and most competent of the gods with regard to the acquisition of virtue and happiness by human beings both when living and dead.\" (180c, 8) – Plato's quoting of Phaedrus' eulogy on Eros \n\nVirtue, according to Greek philosophy, is the concept of how closely reality and material form equates with the ideal, true essence of an idea, such as beauty. Virtue is the result of pregnancy of the soul. This definition varies considerably from the modern English interpretation of the term, where virtue equates to that which is good, positive, or benevolent. This can be seen as a form of linguistic relativity.\n\nSome modern authors perception of the terms \"virtue\" and \"good\" as they are translated into English from the \"Symposium\" are a good indicator of this misunderstanding. In the following quote, the author simplifies the idea of virtue as simply what is \"good\".\"[...] what is good is beautiful, and what is beautiful is good [...]\" \n\nThe Ladder of Love is named as such because it relates each step toward Being itself as consecutive rungs of a ladder. Each step closer to the truth further distances love from beauty of the body toward love that is more focused on wisdom and the essence of beauty.\n\nThe ladder starts with carnal attraction of body for body, progressing to a love for body and soul. Eventually, in time, with consequent steps up the ladder, the idea of beauty is eventually no longer connected with a body, but entirely united with Being itself.\"[...] decent human beings must be gratified, as well as those that are not as yet decent, so that they might become more decent; and the love of the decent must be preserved.\" (187d, 17) - Eryximachus' \"completion\" of Pausanias' speech on Eros \n\nPlato's \"Symposium\" defines two extremes in the process of platonic love; the entirely carnal and the entirely ethereal. These two extremes of love are seen by the Greeks in terms of tragedy and comedy. According to Diotima in her discussion with Socrates, for anyone to achieve the final rung in the Ladder of Love, they would essentially transcend the body and rise to immortality - gaining direct access to Being. Such a form of love is impossible for a mortal to achieve.\n\nWhat Plato describes as \"pregnancy of the body\" is entirely carnal and seeks pleasure and beauty in bodily form only. This is the type of love, that, according to Socrates, is practiced by animals.\"Now, if both these portraits of love, the tragic and the comic, are exaggerations, then we could say that the genuine portrayal of Platonic love is the one that lies between them. The love described as the one practiced by those who are pregnant according to the soul, who partake of both the realm of beings and the realm of Being, who grasp Being indirectly, through the mediation of beings, would be a love that Socrates could practice.\" \n\nDiotima considers the carnal limitation of human beings to the pregnancy of the body to be a form of tragedy, as it separates someone from the pursuit of truth. One would be forever limited to beauty of the body, never being able to access the true essence of beauty.\n\nDiotima considers the idea of a mortal having direct access to Being to be a comic situation simply because of the impossibility of it. The offspring of true virtue would essentially lead to a mortal achieving immortality.\n\nIn the Middle Ages arose a new interest in Plato, his philosophy and his view of love. This was caused by Georgios Gemistos Plethon during the Councils of Ferrara and Firenze in 1438-1439. Later in 1469, Marsilio Ficino put forward a theory of neo-platonic love in which he defines love as a personal ability of an individual which guides their soul towards cosmic processes and lofty spiritual goals and heavenly ideas (\"De Amore\", Les Belles Lettres, 2012). The first use of the modern sense of platonic love is taken as an invention of Ficino in one of his letters.\n\nThough Plato's discussions of love originally centered on relationships which were sexual between members of the same sex, scholar Todd Reeser studies how the meaning of platonic love in Plato's original sense underwent a transformation during the Renaissance, leading to the contemporary sense of nonsexual heterosexual love.\n\nThe English term dates back to William Davenant's \"The Platonic Lovers\" (performed in 1635); a critique of the philosophy of platonic love which was popular at Charles I's court. It is derived from the concept in Plato's \"Symposium\" of the love of the idea of good which lies at the root of all virtue and truth. For a brief period, Platonic love was a fashionable subject at the English royal court, especially in the circle around Queen Henrietta Maria, the wife of King Charles I. Platonic love was the theme of some of the courtly masques performed in the Caroline era—though the fashion soon waned under pressures of social and political change.\n\nThroughout these eras platonic love slowly was categorized into different subsections, which were: Eros, Philia, Storge, Agape, Ludus, Pragma, Philautia. Eros is a sexual or passionate love, or a modern perspective of romantic love. Philia is the type of love that is directed towards friendship or goodwill, often is met with mutual benefits that can also can be formed by companionship, dependability, and trust. Storge is the type of love that is found between parents and children, and this is often a unilateral love. Agape is the universal love, that can consist of the love for strangers, nature, or god. Ludus is a playful and uncommitted love, this is focused for fun and sometimes as a conquest with no strings attached. Pragma is the type of love that is founded on duty and reason, and one's longer term interests. Philautia is self-love and this can be healthy or unhealthy; which can be unhealthy if you are hubris if placed ahead of gods, and it can be healthy if its used to build self esteem and confidence. These different forms of love can be mistaken as any of the listed different loves. There is a type of porosity that allows love to filter through one type and into the next, although for Plato love is to be of the beautiful and good things. This is due to the ownership of beautiful and good things equates into happiness. All beautiful and good things sit below truth and wisdom, for everyone looks to truthful and wise people as the truly beautiful for the effort of being considered beautifully good, and this is exactly why Plato suggests that love is not a god but rather a philosopher.\n\n\"Platonic love in its modern popular sense is an affectionate relationship into which the sexual element does not enter, especially in cases where one might easily assume otherwise.\" \"Platonic lovers function to underscore a supportive role where the friend sees her or his duty as the provision of advice, encouragement, and comfort to the other person [...] and do not entail exclusivity\"\n\n90% of our closest relationship will be of a platonic nature, but when there is an insistence on labelling the relationship as platonic love the terminology itself may create discourse within one's relationships. Notably romantic relationships where a bond of love has been established.\n\nOne of the complications of platonic love lies within the persistence of the use of the title itself \"platonic love\" versus the use of \"friend\". It is the use of the word love that directs us towards a deeper relationship than the scope of a normal friendship.\n\nSecondly, a study by Hause and Messman states: \"The most popular reasons for retaining a platonic relationship of the opposite sex (or sex of attraction) was to safeguard a relationship, followed by not attracted, network disapproval, third party, risk aversion, and time out.\" This points to the fact that the title of platonic love in most cases is actually a title-holder to avoid sexual interaction between knowing and consenting friends, with mutual or singular sexual interest and/or tension existing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "463620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=463620", "title": "Poisoned candy myths", "text": "Poisoned candy myths\n\nPoisoned candy myths are urban legends about malevolent strangers hiding poisons or sharp objects such as razor blades, needles, or broken glass in candy and distributing the candy in order to harm random children, especially during Halloween trick-or-treating. These stories serve as modern cautionary tales to children and parents. These stories repeat two themes that are common in urban legends: danger to children and contamination of food.\n\nNo cases of strangers killing or permanently injuring children this way have been proven. Commonly, the story appears in the media when a young child dies suddenly after Halloween. Medical investigations into the actual cause of death have always shown that these children did not die from eating candy given to them by strangers. However, in rare cases, adult family members have spread this story in an effort to cover up murder or accidental deaths. In other incidents, a child who has been told about poisoned candy places a dangerous object or substance in a pile of candy and pretends that it was the work of a stranger. This behavior is called the \"copycat effect\".\n\nFolklorists, scholars, and law enforcement experts say that these stories have been \"thoroughly debunked\". There have, however, been confirmed cases of heroin (2017) and razor blades (2015) being discovered in the Halloween candy of children, though no deaths resulted from these. \n\nCaution due to tampered candy has led to the rise of alternative events to trick-or-treating, such as trunk-or-treat events held at Christian churches, police and fire stations, community centers, and schools.\n\nClaims that candy was poisoned or adulterated gained general credence during the Industrial Revolution, when food production moved out of the home or local area, where it was made in familiar ways by known and trusted people, to strangers using unknown ingredients and unfamiliar machines and processes. Some doctors publicly claimed that they were treating children poisoned by candy every day. If a child became ill, and had eaten candy, the candy was widely assumed to be the cause. However, no cases of illness or death were ever substantiated.\n\nIn the 1890s and 1900s, tests by the US Bureau of Chemistry and other state agencies on hundreds of kinds of candy found no evidence of poisons or adulteration. These tests revealed that inexpensive glucose (from corn syrup) was in common use for cheap candies, that some candies contained trace amounts of copper from uncoated copper cooking pans, and that coal tar dyes were being used for coloring, but there was no evidence of the many types of poison, industrial waste, garbage, or other adulterants alleged to be present. Eventually, the claims that children were being sickened by candy were put down to indigestion due to overeating, or to other causes, including food poisoning due to improper cooking, hygiene, or storage of meat and other foods.\n\nThe prevalence and persistence of these myths during the 1960s and 1970s, a time of social upheaval, greater racial integration, and improved status for women, reflected societal questions about who was trustworthy. Because society was struggling with questions about whether to trust neighbors in newly integrated neighborhoods, or young women who were publicly rejecting the subservient, motherhood-focused roles previously assigned to women, these stories about unidentifiable neighbors allegedly harming random, innocent children during an event intended to bring happiness to these children caught and retained the public imagination in a way that accurate stories about a judgmental neighbor, an abusive parent, or an adult carelessly leaving harmful chemicals where children can reach them, wouldn't have.\n\nDue to their fears, parents and communities restricted trick-or-treating and developed alternative \"safe\" events, such as trunk-or-treat events held at Christian churches.\n\nThis story also promoted the sale of individually wrapped, brand-name candies and discouraged people from giving homemade treats to children.\n\nSeveral events in the late 20th century fostered the modern-day candy tampering myth.\n\nIn 1959, a California dentist, William Shyne, gave candy-coated laxative pills to trick-or-treaters. He was charged with outrage of public decency and unlawful dispensing of drugs.\n\nIn 1964, an annoyed Long Island, New York woman gave out packages of inedible objects to children who she believed were too old to be trick-or-treating. The packages contained items such as steel wool, dog biscuits, and ant buttons (which were clearly labeled with the word \"poison\"). Though nobody was injured, she was prosecuted and pleaded guilty to endangering children. The same year saw media reports of lye-filled bubble gum being handed out in Detroit and rat poison being given in Philadelphia, although these media reports were never substantiated to be actual events.\n\nAnother notable milestone in the spread of the candy tampering myths was an article published in \"The New York Times\" in 1970. This article claimed that \"Those Halloween goodies that children collect this weekend on their rounds of ‘trick or treating’ may bring them more horror than happiness\", and provided specific examples of potential tamperings.\n\nReports and copycat incidents peaked shortly after the Chicago Tylenol murders, which were first reported one month before Halloween in 1982. This incident involved a murderer who added poison to a few bottles of over-the-counter medication after the medication had been delivered to stores.\n\nJoel Best, a sociologist at the University of Delaware, specializes in the scholarly study of candy-tampering legends. He collected newspaper reports from 1958 to 1983 in search of evidence of candy tampering. Fewer than 90 instances might have qualified as actual candy tampering. In none of the cases does he attribute the events to \"random attempts to harm children\" at the Halloween holiday. Instead, most cases were attempts by adults to gain financial compensation or, far more commonly, by children to get attention. Best found five child deaths that were initially thought by local authorities to be caused by homicidal strangers, but none of those were sustained by investigation.\n\nFabrications by children are particularly common. Children sometimes copy or act out the stories about tampered candy that they overhear, by adding pins to or pouring household cleaners on their own candy and then reporting the now-unsafe candy to their parents. In these incidents, the children have not been harmed; they know that the dangerous item is present and that it would be unsafe to eat the candy.\n\nFar more prevalent during the same period were reports of vandalism, racist incidents, or children being injured in pedestrian–vehicle collisions on Halloween.\n\nThe deaths of five children were initially blamed on stranger poisoning. However, none of these claims were sustained upon investigation.\n\nIn a 1974 case, an 8-year-old boy from Deer Park, Texas, died after eating a cyanide-laced package of Pixy Stix. A subsequent police investigation eventually determined that the poisoned candy had been planted in his trick-or-treat pile by the boy's father, Ronald Clark O'Bryan, who also gave out poisoned candy to other children in an attempt to cover up the murder, though no other children consumed the poisoned treats. The murderer, who had wanted to claim life insurance money, was executed in 1984. In this case, the distribution of poisoned candy is true, but no children other than the intended victim were harmed.\n\nDespite these claims of poisoned candy being eventually proved false, the news media promoted the story continuously throughout the 1980s, with local news stations featuring frequent coverage. During this time cases of poisoning were repeatedly reported based on unsubstantiated claims or before a full investigation could be completed and often never followed up on. This one-sided coverage contributed to the overall panic and caused rival media outlets to issue reports of candy tampering as well. However, Joel Best says that the spread of the myth cannot be blamed solely on the media, and that it must have been transmitted via word of mouth as well.\n\nBy 1985, the media had driven the hysteria about candy poisonings to such a point that an ABC News/\"Washington Post\" poll that found 60% of parents feared that their children would be injured or killed because of Halloween candy sabotage.\n\nAdvice columnists entered the fray during the 1980s and 1990s with both \"Ask Ann Landers\" and \"Dear Abby\" warning parents of the horrors of candy tampering:\n\n\"In recent years, there have been reports of people with twisted minds putting razor blades and poison in taffy apples and Halloween candy. It is no longer safe to let your child eat treats that come from strangers.\" –Ann Landers in 1995\n\"Somebody's child will become violently ill or die after eating poisoned candy or an apple containing a razor blade.\" –Dear Abby in 1983\n\nThis collective fear also served as the impetus for the \"safe\" trick-or-treating offered by many local malls.\n\nIn 2000, James Joseph Smith of Minneapolis placed sharp needles within Snicker's bars that he distributed to children on All Hallow's Eve. While several children bit into the bars, only one was injured.\n\nIn 2015, a razor blade was discovered in a Snicker's bar after children went trick-or-treating in Reynoldsburg, Ohio.\n\nPrior to Halloween in 2017, North Carolina's Alcohol Law Enforcement (ALE) agency issued a warning about cannabidiol candy.\n\nDuring Allhallowtide 2017, the \"Toronto Star\" reported that an eleven-year-old girl had to undergo surgery to remove a metal piece that she had swallowed from eating a contaminated Reese’s Peanut Butter Cup. Local police also reported the discoverance of needles in Halloween candy from Windsor, and Catham.\n\nIn the same year, police believed that heroin found in a young girl's Halloween candy originated in the Hidden Valley area.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41544003", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41544003", "title": "Sole Survivor (2013 film)", "text": "Sole Survivor (2013 film)\n\nSole Survivor is a 2013 CNN Films documentary film by director Ky Dickens.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47757024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47757024", "title": "Synthetic genomes", "text": "Synthetic genomes\n\nSynthetic genome is a synthetically-built genome whose formation involves either genetic modification on pre-existing life forms or artificial gene synthesis to create new DNA or entire lifeforms.. The field that studies synthetic genomes is called Synthetic Genomics.\n\nSoon after the discovery of restriction endonucleases and ligases, the field of genetics began using these molecular tools to assemble artificial sequences from smaller fragments of synthetic or naturally occurring DNA. The advantage in using the recombinatory approach as opposed to continual DNA synthesis stems from the inverse relationship that exists between synthetic DNA length and percent purity of that synthetic length. In other words, as you synthesize longer sequences, the number of error-containing clones increases due to the inherent error rates of current technologies. Although recombinant DNA technology is more commonly used in the construction of fusion proteins and plasmids, several techniques with larger capacities have emerged, allowing for the construction of entire genomes.\n\nPolymerase cycling assembly (PCA) uses a series of oligonucleotides (or oligos), approximately 40 to 60 nucleotides long, that altogether constitute both strands of the DNA being synthesized. These oligos are designed such that a single oligo from one strand contains a length of approximately 20 nucleotides at each end that is complementary to sequences of two different oligos on the opposite strand, thereby creating regions of overlap. The entire set is processed through cycles of: (a) hybridization at 60 °C; (b) elongation via Taq polymerase and a standard ligase; and (c) denaturation at 95 °C, forming progressively longer contiguous strands and ultimately resulting in the final genome. PCA was used to generate the first synthetic genome in history, that of the Phi X 174 virus.\n\nThe Gibson Assembly Method, designed by Daniel Gibson during his time at the J. Craig Venter Institute, requires a set of double-stranded DNA cassettes that constitute the entire genome being synthesized. Note that cassettes differ from contigs by definition, in that these sequences contain regions of homology to other cassettes for the purposes of recombination. In contrast to Polymerase Cycling Assembly, Gibson Assembly is a single-step, isothermal reaction with larger sequence-length capacity; ergo, it is used in place of Polymerase Cycling Assembly for genomes larger than 6 kb.\n\nA T5 exonuclease performs a chew-back reaction at the terminal segments, working in the 5' to 3' direction, thereby producing complimentary overhangs. The overhangs hybridize to each other, a Phusion DNA polymerase fills in any missing nucleotides and the nicks are sealed with a ligase. However, the genomes capable of being synthesized using this method alone is limited because as DNA cassettes increase in length, they require propagation in vitro in order to continue hybridizing; accordingly, Gibson assembly is often used in conjunction with Transformation-Associated Recombination (see below) to synthesize genomes several hundred kilobases in size.\n\nThe goal of Transformation-Associated Recombination (TAR) technology in synthetic genomics is to combine DNA contigs by means of homologous recombination performed by the Yeast Artificial Chromosome (YAC). Of importance is the CEN element within the YAC vector, which corresponds to the yeast centromere. This sequence gives the vector the ability to behave in a chromosomal manner, thereby allowing it to perform homologous recombination.\n\nFirst, Gap Repair Cloning is performed to generate regions of homology flanking the DNA contigs. Gap Repair Cloning is a particular form of the Polymerase Chain Reaction in which specialized primers with extensions beyond the sequence of the DNA target are utilized. Then, the DNA cassettes are exposed to the YAC vector, which drives the process of homologous recombination, thereby connecting the DNA cassettes. Polymerase Cycling Assembly and TAR technology were used together to construct the 600 kb \"Mycoplasma genitalium\" genome in 2008, the first synthetic organism ever created. Similar steps were taken in synthesizing the larger \"Mycoplasma mycoides\" genome a few years later.\n\n"}
{"id": "33765789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33765789", "title": "Tamagotchi! (anime)", "text": "Tamagotchi! (anime)\n\nThe series is the third Tamagotchi anime produced since \"Saa Ikou! Tamagotchi\" and a follow-up to the movie \"\". After the series' airing, it has gained three anime sequels, two manga adaptations and ten light novel adaptations by Kadokawa Shoten. Although several episodes of the first Tamagotchi anime have been dubbed in select countries, the full anime has never aired outside of Japan. The series came to end as of March 2015 and became replaced with \"\".\n\nThe anime is divided into three official arcs, the Tamagotchi Town Chapter for the first series, the Dream Town Chapter for the 2nd and 3rd series and the Tamagottsun Chapter for the 4th series. Alongside the main story, several mini-segments were officially shown throughout the anime, with each segment differs from season to season.\n\nThe first chapter of the series which consists of three official arcs, the , focusing on Lovelitchi and her double life as Lovelin, the , which focuses on the friendship between Lovelitchi and Meloditchi and the which focuses on the legend of the Tama Hearts.\n\nThe second chapter of the series consisting of the Yume Kira Arc (Tamagotchi! Yume Kira Dream), focusing on Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi's dream on becoming idols and the Dreambakutchi Arc (Tamagotchi! Miracle Friends) which focuses on Miraitchi and Clulutchi's desire on returning to the future.\n\nThe third chapter focusing on meeting and reunion of the characters from the past series, as well as two new characters, Neenetchi and Orenetchi. It focuses more on the interaction between friends of both towns.\n\nFollowing the events of , Mametchi, Memetchi, Kuchipatchi, and all other Tamagotchi Planet residents move on with their daily lives. However, a very famous Tamagotchi idol named Lovelin moves to Tamagotchi Town to host a footrace. The following day, at school, a shy, yet sweet new girl named Lovelitchi came to class. Little were her classmates aware that she was actually Lovelin. Poor experiences in prior schools caused Lovelitchi to decide to keep her Lovelin identity a secret when transferring to Tamagotchi School. After Mametchi told Lovelitchi he sees her as a Tama-Friend, she soon gets nervous due to the fact that Tama-Friends are never dishonest with each other. On Mametchi's birthday, Lovelitchi announced that she was, indeed, Lovelin. She feared that her newly-made friendships would come to an end, but everyone was quick to forgive her, and she was relieved. Daily life continued from that point until a legend about \"The Kuchipatchi of Truth\" was learned about by Mametchi, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi. It caused a variety of shenanigans, included being teleported back in time and Lovelitchi's cell phone, Telelin, coming to life. Not long after the legend of The Kuchipatchi of Truth was discovered, an outgoing violinist named Melodytchi moves to Tamagotchi Town. Lovelitchi quickly became friends with her and they became an idol and violinist duet, performing many songs together. Not too long afterward, a bright and optimistic fashion designer named Moriritchi moves in and quickly became Tama-Friends with the cast, especially Lovelitchi and Melodytchi. Shortly after, a human girl named Tomomi arrives on Tamagotchi Planet following a malfunction from one of Mametchi's inventions. At that time, a new conflict unfolds; the legend of the Tama-Hearts. These mythical hearts were floating about on Tamagotchi Planet, and if they weren't found in time, Tamagotchi Planet would face a permanent curse. Mametchi created Tama-Profies, devices that could store the Tama-Hearts shortly after they were uncovered, and gave them to Lovelitchi and Melodytchi. Every time a Tama-Heart was found, Lovelitchi and Melodytchi would take out their Tama-Profies and store the Tama-Heart inside. At one time around that time, a mysterious Tamagotchi named Kizunatchi got out of the devices and offered to help with the search. Not long after, Tomomi leaves to return to the Earth and a new Tamagotchi girl with a massive crush on Mametchi, Himespetchi, arrives and agrees to help with the search. With all the Tama-Hearts eventually found and stored in the Tama-Profies, citizens of Tamagotchi Town were soon turning into eggs. This was the beginning for what may be a permanent curse in Tamagotchi Planet, and if the Tama-Hearts weren't returned to their respective pillars on Heart Island in time, a rather unhappy ending is rest assured. Luckily, The Tamagotchis make it to Heart Island just before the curse gets any worse and manage to store the Tama-Hearts in their proper pillars. The sky then darkens, making them think something awful is bound to happen. Mametchi, Lovelitchi, Melodytchi, Memetchi, Kuchipatchi, and Himespetchi each made their hopes on the Tamagotchi Planet being Okay and the Egg curse to being stopped. Kizunatchi, only able to do so much to stop the curse, descended in a manner that saddened her Tama-Friends and made them run towards her, screaming her name. Kizunatchi soon changed appearance and ended the egg curse once and for all. Everyone was turned back to their regular selves and, after a tearful farewell to Kizunatchi, everything went back to normal. Ms. Perfect called Mametchi, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi, and announced that the three Tamagotchis have won the Robotic Soccer Tournament and that they would be transferring to Dream Town in light of their Victory. The entire class was surprised, especially Mametchi, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi. Makiko remarked that the three will need to leave Tamagotchi Town, making Himespetchi tear up in the thought that her love was leaving.\n\nFollowing Ms. Perfect's announcement, Mametchi, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi take to Dream Town by plane. Each of them were given Home-Stay residences by the Principle of Dream School. Kuchipatchi's was a fancy restaurant named Dream Hakken, and Memetchi's was a beautiful salon called Salon de Dream. While this seemed like paradise for Kuchipatchi, Memetchi, and Mametchi's home stay wasn't quite the same way. He did a homestay in a garage with an elder Tamagotchi named Ikaritchi, who didn't think very fond of him. Meanwhile, shifting to another story, Yumemitchi, the sweet daughter of a wealthy Tamagotchi family, meets up with her best Tama-Friend, Kiraritchi. The girls achieve so much more together than either one could on their own, and they share a dream; to become famous idols, which was inspired by a duet called D2. Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi see D2 as role models, and after dancing and singing to help get a lion's thorn out of its paw at a circus, a fortune-telling Tamagotchi gives them mythical bags called Yume Kira Bags, which must be used with careful consideration and much be kept secret from other Tamagotchis. Not long afterward, a surprise awaits Mametchi and friends; Himespetchi returns to reunite with her crush and to fulfill her dream of being Mametchi's bride. The Yume Kira Bags cause Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi to undergo disguise and assist other Tamagotchis with tight situations. One Christmas in Dream Town, a Tamagotchi named Yumecantchi emerges from the bags to help the two after Yumemitchi wished for a Tama-Pet of her own. While Yumemitchi admires her cute charms, Kiraritchi thinks it's an overreaction. Not long after, Mametchi refused to take any more of Ikaritchi's mistreatment for him and ran away, trying to find a new homestay. The next day, a friendly pianist named Pianitchi came to Dream Town to reunite with her mother, Cafe Mama, who runs Music Cafe. She befriended Mametchi and helped him change Ikaritchi's ways. After Ikaritchi was reminded about a childhood memory picking apples with a friend, he finally displays his courteous side to Mametchi, and parted Dream Town to sell the apples. Mametchi has since done a homestay at Music Cafe with Pianitchi. Yumemitchi, Kiraritchi, Memetchi, Pianitchi, and Himespetchi soon formed a band called the Kira Kira Girls. After an important performance, Dream Town learned that Himespetchi had to leave under her parents' request. After a tearful farewell, a talkative make-up artist named Coffretchi moved in and agreed to take Himespetchi's place in the Kira Kira Girls' band. Later on, after Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi make frequent use of the Yume Kira Bag, a Tamagotchi named Nandetchi notices the true identities and decided to take photos of them and show them to Dream School, much to the girls' humiliation. After reconsolidation, Nandetchi tore up the photos. Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi then learned it was time to return the Yume Kira Bags and Yumecantchi back to the fortune teller that gave them the items. Not long afterward, Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi then leave Dream Town and go to Melody Town to study idolism and make their dream come true.\n\nSometime after Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi pursuit their dream at a new destination, a new story is to be told, and this one is about time. Two Twin sisters were Home sweet Home in Dream Town of the Future. Miraitchi, the one-day older twin, is a little more sarcastic, which Clulutchi, the one-day younger twin, is a little more serious. One day, a mysterious face that calls himself X-Kamen lets loose eight mythical Tama-Pets called Dreambakutchis. The father of the twins, Doctor Future, orders them to go retrieve the Dreambakutchis. Miraitchi and Clulutchi use pocket designers, devices that provide outfits necessary for fulfilling tasks and assignments, to give Miraitchi wings and Clulutchi a hoverboard. While Miraitchi enjoyed flying, Clulutchi feared it. Despite different receptions on taking to the skies, the twins retrieve most of the Dreambakutchis. However, Purplebakutchi, the only one still flying, does something which causes Watchlin, the living watch owned by the twins, to malfunction and send everyone back in time. At that time frame, Mametchi, Memetchi, Kuchipatchi, Pianitchi, and Coffretchi were doing homework. That evening, both of the twins were famished, so they headed over to Music Cafe and were warmly welcomed by Mametchi and Pianitchi. Miraitchi and Clulutchi made a request for Mametchi and Tama-Friends; to assist them in getting back the Dreambakutchis so they can go back home, and all 5 Tamagotchis agreed. X-Kamen was still as much of an obstacle in the present as he was in the future. For the time being, Miraitchi and Clulutchi both attended Dream School, when a mysterious boy named Smartotchi was also attending. Pianitchi was quite fond of Smartotchi due to his exceptional piano playing, but little were the Tamagotchis aware that he was X-Kamen in a \"normal\" disguise. Miraitchi and Clulutchi also wanted to become fashion designers, and did a homestay with Madamtchi, owner of the miracle shop, as a result. Smartotchi eventually informed Miraitchi, Clulutchi, and friends that he is actually X-Kamen, and turned from a foe to a friend. Not long after, a cheerful young girl named Candy Paku Paku, who's a close friend of the twins, also teleported to the past and agreed to help find the Dreambakutchis. After all 8 were found, Miraitchi, Clulutchi, Smartotchi, and Candy Paku Paku, despite being reluctant to bid farewell to their friends, did so and returned to the future. .\n\nEvery thousand years on Tamagotchi Planet, continents collide in an event called the Tamagottssun, causing Dream Town and Tamagotchi Town to fuse as \"DreamTamatown\". Mametchi, Memetchi, and Kuchipatchi reunited with Lovelitchi, Melodytchi, Moriritchi, Himespetchi, Yumemitchi, Kiraritchi, and numerous other characters that left previously. Miraitchi, Clulutchi, and Candy Paku Paku also return to the past to reunite, but Smartotchi didn't for unknown reasons. A massive reunion took place as the Tamagotchis learn about the legends of the Tamagottssun in a wonderful world. Towards Tamagottssun's conclusion, though, something tragic happens; The Tamagotchi Planet itself is crying, limiting the supply of water available. If Tamagotchi Planet wasn't cheered up in time, it would be a permanent drought and the Tamagotchi species would become extinct because just like humans, Tamagotchis need water to survive. Luckily, with a lot of work and effort, Tamagotchi Planet cheered up, Dream Town and Tamagotchi Town returned to their normal, non-fused statuses, and everyone was home with their families. That, however, didn't stop Mametchi from creating his most developed invention ever; the DreamTama Rainbow. It's a special flying submarine-like vehicle that permitted transportation all across Tamagotchi Planet, meaning that the bonds the citizens of Dream Town made with the citizens of Tamagotchi Town and vice versa can last forevermore. After flashbacks from several episodes from the past few seasons, Mametchi and all his Tama-Friends thanked the viewers for watching and everyone waved goodbye to the viewers to show that the anime has officially ended.\n\nThe series was officially meant as a follow-up to the previous series \"Saa Ikou! Tamagotchi\", uniting the staff from OLM's Team Kamei division, who produced the two movie adaptations. The official voice actors from the movies reprise their roles in the new series with the format of the anime has two stories per one episode, which became full episodes on the later years. The series ran from October 2009 to 3 September 2012 lasting up to 143 episodes.\n\nOne of the locations of the anime, the Tamagotchi Street, or \"Tama-Street\" for short is officially based on the real-life Takeshita Street in Harajuku, Tokyo, where the Tamagotchi Department Store is found. Production staff do a location research of the place and transitioned it into the Anime during development.\n\nStarting Episode 144 in 2012, Team Kamei went on to develop the second series , focusing on the three main characters studying abroad in Dream Town and the lives of both Yumemitchi and Kiraritchi who dream on becoming idols one day. The second series aired from 10 September 2012 to 29 August 2013. From November 2013 to December 2014, Bandai America divided and dubbed the first 7 episodes of Yume Kira Dream as a series of 14 webisodes for the Tamagotchi Friends website. In 2013, Team Wasaki replaced Team Kamei on the anime's production to produce the third series , that aired from 5 September 2013 to 27 March 2014 starting with Episode 193. It focuses on the twins Miraritchi and Clulutchi who must search for the Dreambakutchis for them to return to the future.\n\nIn 2014, the fourth and final series, is produced, revolving around the reunion between characters from Dream Town and Tamagotchi Town after the Tamagottsun event, fusing both towns into DoriTama Town. The series began airing on 3 April 2014 starting with Episode 222.\n\nThe first anime series officially aired in all TX Network Stations, including TV Tokyo and TV Osaka from 12 October 2009 to 3 September 2012, replacing both the Japanese broadcast of \"Lilo & Stitch: The Series\" and \"Hikaru no Go\" on their respected timeslots. It also aired in the Japanese Pay-for-View channel Animax. The series gained its official English broadcast in Australia and aired in the TV network GO! (Only the first 26 episodes were dubbed in English, and it isn't likely that dubbing will continue, as GO! no longer airs \"Tamagotchi!\") and also aired in Hong Kong and Taiwan through TVB and YoYo TV. It also aired in the Philippines through GMA Network.\n\nThe second series titled first began its airing from 10 September 2012 to 29 August 2013. The series changed timeslot on 25 March 2013, being replaced with the show \"Why Did You Come to Japan?\" to its new timeslot on 4 April 2013 Thursday. Bandai America divided and dubbed the first seven episodes of this series as webisodes for the Tamagotchi Friends website (There's a total of 14 webisodes, and every two contain a scene from one of the first seven Tamagotchi! Yume Kira Dream episodes.)\n\nThe third series, officially aired from 5 September 2013 to 27 March 2014 with a total of 29 episodes, making it the shortest Tamagotchi season ever released. The fourth and final series titled began airing on 3 April 2014 and ended on 26 March 2015. No new episodes have been broadcast since then, although a rebroadcast series called began airing on 2 April 2015 and ended on 29 September 2015. This marked the first and only series in the franchise to include Live-Action Segments.\n\nA short film based on the series, \"Eiga Tamagotchi: Himitsu no Otodoke Dai Saisuken!\", was released with the \"\" movie on April 28, 2017. The short film centers around the Tama-Friends, who are assigned to deliver a package to the Gotchi King, when a giant mechanical claw controlled by the Spacy Brothers intervenes with the delivery.\n\nEach of the anime series were released in DVD by Bandai Visual in Japan. The first series is also released online through the streaming service Bandai Channel, focusing on each mini-arc.\n\nBefore the anime was officially ended as for March 2015 and was replaced by \"\" in its initial timeslot, the franchise notice that the \"Tamagotchi 4U\" sales were doing worse as expected. Aya Matsui, the main writer of the series already left the team as well. However, the franchise still made more merchandise even though the anime ended.\n\nA manga series based on the series titled is serialized on Shogakukan's Shojo Magazine Pucchigumi from February 2010 to December 2011. The Manga is written and illustrated by Yasukon and three tankōbon volumes were collected. A second manga series titled is also done by Yasukon and serialized in Pucchigumi. Only one tankōbon volume is released.\n\nAn ongoing Light Novel series based on the anime series is released as part of Kadokawa's Tsubasa Bunko label on 11 March 2011, written by both Aya Matsui and Anna Mari. The adaptation only adapts certain arcs and episodes of the anime series.\n\nThe music of the anime is officially composed by the group Aozora, who composes songs on various Bandai Commercials.\n\nThe first anime had 4 opening and 7 ending songs. The first opening song is titled , on which has 7 Versions: The first version is sung by Yuria Nara, the second version is done by Kei Shindo, Yuko Sanpei and Nanae Kato, the third version is done by Ryoka Yuzuki, Akemi Okamura and Asami Yaguchi, the fourth version is done by Yuko Gibu, Satomi Kōrogi and Rie Kugimiya, the fifth version is done by Tomoko Kaneda, Hinako Sasaki and Kei Shindo, the sixth version is done by Rie Kugimiya, Satomi Kōrogi, Kana Uetake and Yuko Sanpei and the seventh is done by the main cast of the series. The second opening song is titled \"Like & Peace!\", the third opening is titled and the fourth opening is titled \"I★my★me★mine\", all performed by Dream5. The first ending song is titled by Shōko Haida, the second ending is titled by mao, the third ending theme is titled by both Kei Shindo and Yuko Sanpei, the fourth ending is titled \"Smiling!\" by Lay, the fifth ending is titled \n\nThe second series only had two opening and two ending themes. The first opening song is titled by Dream5 and the second opening theme is titled by both Misato Fukuen and Megumi Toyoguchi under the band name . The first ending theme is titled by Dream5 and the ending theme is by Rie Kugimiya, Asami Yaguchi, Yuko Sanpei and Mariya Ise under the band name .\n\nThe third series only had two songs prior to its short run. The first opening is titled by Emiri Katō and Chiwa Saitō and the ending theme is titled by Rie Kugimiya.\n\nThe fourth series also has two theme songs. The opening song is titled by hitomi for the first 25 episodes and by Rie Kugimiya for the rest of the season. The first ending theme is titled \"RAINBOW\" by Hitomi and the second ending is titled \"Baby I\" by Ariana Grande featuring Taro Hakase.\n\nSeveral Video Games based on the anime were all officially developed and released by Bandai Namco Games in Japan. The first game of the series, is first released on November 5, 2009 for the Nintendo DS. The second game in the series, is released on July 17, 2010 as part of the \"Corner Shop\" series. The third game, is released on November 11, 2010. The fourth, is released on November 10, 2011.\n\nThe series officially got extended to the Nintendo 3DS, starting with which is released on April 19, 2012. The game is a remake of the first Tamagotchi Corner Shop game with characters from the Anime version. The second game in the series, is released on November 22, 2012. It is the first game to include characters from the \"Yume Kira Dream\" series. The third game is released on May 23, 2013. The fourth game in series, is released on November 7, 2013. It is the first game to include characters from the \"Miracle Friends\" series. The current game of the series, is released on April 24, 2014.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2494883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2494883", "title": "Tetraphobia", "text": "Tetraphobia\n\nTetraphobia (from Greek τετράς—\"tetras\", \"four\" and φόβος—\"phobos\", \"fear\") is the practice of avoiding instances of the number . It is a superstition most common in East Asian nations.\n\nThe Chinese word for \"four\" (, pinyin: sì, jyutping: sei), sounds quite similar to the word for \"death\" (, pinyin: sǐ, jyutping: sei), in many varieties of Chinese. Similarly, the Sino-Japanese, Sino-Korean, and Sino-Vietnamese words for \"four\", shi (し, Japanese), and sa (사, Korean), sound similar or identical to \"death\" in each language (see Korean numerals, Japanese numerals, Vietnamese numerals). Tetraphobia is known to occur in Korea and Japan since the two words sound identical, but not at all in Vietnam because they carry different tones (in the case of the word for \"four\", whether it is the Sino-Vietnamese reading \"tứ\" or the more common non-Sino-Vietnamese reading \"tư\", neither sounds like the word for \"death\" which is \"tử\"), and Vietnamese does not use Sino-Vietnamese numerals as often in the first place.\n\nSpecial care may be taken to avoid occurrences or reminders of the number 4 during everyday life, especially during festive holidays, or when a family member is ill. Mentioning the number 4 around a sick relative is strongly avoided. Giving four of something is strongly discouraged. Elevators in Asia and Asian neighborhoods often skip the 4th floor. Military aircraft and ships also avoid the number 4 (such as the South Korean and Taiwanese navies). April 4 is also considered an exceptionally unlucky day, much like Friday the 13th in the West.\n\nSimilarly, , , , etc. are also to be avoided due to the presence of the digit 4 in these numbers. In these countries, these floor numbers are often skipped in buildings, ranging from hotels to offices to apartments, as well as hospitals. Table number 4, 14, 24, 42, etc. are also often left out in wedding dinners or other social gatherings in these countries. In many residential complexes, building block 4, 14, 24 etc. are either omitted or replaced with block 3A, 13A, and 23A. Hospitals are of grave concern and the number 4 is regularly avoided altogether. Tetraphobia can dictate property prices. Neighborhoods have removed four from their street names and become more profitable as a result. In the same way, buildings with multiple fours can suffer price cuts. Four is also avoided in phone numbers, security numbers, business cards, addresses, ID numbers, and other numbers and are considered severe as they are personally attached to the person.\n\nTetraphobia far surpasses triskaidekaphobia (Western superstitions around the number 13). It even permeates the business world in these regions of Asia.\n\nChinese is a tonal language with a comparatively small inventory of permitted syllables, resulting in an exceptionally large number of homophone words. Many of the numbers are homophones or near-homophones of other words and have therefore acquired superstitious meanings.\n\nThe Chinese avoid phone numbers and addresses with fours, especially when they are combined with another number that changes the meaning. Example: “94” could be interpreted as being dead for a long time.\n\nThe People's Republic of China makes free use of the number 4 in many military designations for People's Liberation Army equipment, with examples including the Dongfeng-4 ICBM, Type 094 submarine, and Type 054A frigate, although the practice of starting aircraft designations with 5 leads some to speculate that it avoids the starting numeral 4 for aircraft designations much as the United States avoids use of the number 13 in that context. By contrast, the navies of the Republic of China (Taiwan) and of South Korea refrain from using the number 4 when assigning pennant numbers to their ships.\n\nWhile in Mandarin-speaking regions in China, 14 and 74 are considered more unlucky than the individual 4, since 14 sounds like \"wants / is going to die\" (要死) and 74 like \"will certainly die\" or \"will die in anger\" (氣死).\n\nWhen Beijing lost its bid to stage the 2000 Olympic Games, it was speculated that the reason China did not pursue a bid for the following 2004 Games was due to the unpopularity of the number 4 in China. Instead, the city waited another four years, and would eventually host the 2008 Olympic Games, the number eight being a lucky number in Chinese culture.\n\nIn Hong Kong, some apartments such as Vista Paradiso and The Arch skip all the floors from 40 to 49, which is the entire 40s. Immediately above the 39th floor is the 50th floor, leading many who are not aware of tetraphobia to believe that some floors are missing. Tetraphobia is not the main reason, but rather as an excuse to have apartments with 'higher' floors, thus increasing the price, because higher floors in Hong Kong apartments are usually more expensive (see 39 Conduit Road). For Cantonese speakers, 14 and 24 are considered more unlucky than the individual 4, since 14 () sounds like \"will certainly die\" (, ), and 24 () sounds like \"easy to die\" (, ).\n\nDue to the blending of East Asian and Western cultures, it is possible in some buildings that both the thirteenth floor and the fourteenth floor are skipped, causing the twelfth floor to precede the fifteenth floor, along with all the other 4s. Thus a building whose top floor is numbered 100 would, in fact, have just eighty floors.\n\nIn Taiwan not using house numbers ending in 4 without remembering to occasionally skip numbers on the opposite side too, often results in the two sides of a street getting more and more out of sync as one advances.\n\nBecause of the significant population of Chinese and influence of Chinese culture in Southeast Asia, 4 is also considered to be unlucky.\n\nIn buildings of Malaysia and Singapore, where Chinese are significant in population with 25% of Malaysians and 75% of Singaporeans being Chinese, the floor number 4 is occasionally skipped.\n\nSingaporean public transport operator SBS Transit has omitted the number plates for some of its buses whose numbers end with '4' due to this, so if a bus is registered as SBS***3*, SBS***4* will be omitted and the next bus to be registered will be SBS***5*. Note that this only applies to certain buses and not others and that the final asterisk is the checksum letter and not a number. For example, if the bus is registered as SBS7533J, SBS7534G will be omitted and the next bus to be registered will be SBS7535D.\n\nSingaporean public transport operator SMRT has omitted the '4' as the first digit of the serial number of the train cars as well as the SMRT Buses NightRider services .\n\nIn Jakarta, Indonesia, several skyscraper buildings skip 4th and 14th floor, especially those which are funded by Chinese descendants. For example in Plaza Semanggi, 4th floor is replaced by 3A. In The Energy Tower, 39th floor is followed by 50th floor. Some buildings, mostly owned by non-Chinese, have a 4th floor. Popular examples are government buildings, the Sarinah departement store and Pacific Place.\n\nIn Vietnam, the Sino-Vietnamese words for \"four\" (tứ) is used more in formal context than in everyday life and its spoken sound is clearly different from word for \"death\" (tử). The Chữ nôm word \"bốn\" equivalent to word \"tứ\" is often used, therefore the number 4 is rarely avoided. Even so, in the past Vietnamese people often named their children \"tư\" or \"tứ\", which means \"the fourth child born in family\".\n\nIn South Korea, tetraphobia is less extreme, the number 4 sounds like \"decease\" and \"died\" (사), but the floor number 4 or room number 4 is almost always skipped in hospitals, funeral halls, and similar public buildings. In other buildings, the fourth floor is sometimes labelled \"F\" (Four) instead of \"4\" in elevators. Apartment numbers containing multiple occurrences of the number 4 (such as 404) are likely to be avoided to an extent that the value of the property is adversely affected. The national railroad, Korail, left out the locomotive number 4444 when numbering a locomotive class from 4401 upwards. Some of these combinations were considered more unlucky than the individual 4, 14 sounds like \"Time to be deceased\" (사망 할 시간), 44 sounds like \"Died and Deceased\" (사망 및 사망자).\n\nEfforts to accommodate tetraphobia-related sensitivities have been seen in Canada which has a significant population of Chinese descent. Richmond Hill, Ontario, banned the number four on new houses in June 2013. Property developers in Vancouver omitted the number from new buildings until October 2015, when the city banned non-sequential numbering schemes.\n\nTetraphobia also plays a big role in Australian realty. According to Daily Mail Australia, Australian real estate property prices grew 10.5% in 2015. This jump in prices came from the new business buildings and high rises built in Sydney Australia avoiding any reference to the number four. They do not have four in their address nor in their floor numbers. They skip 4, 14, 24 and so on. One business building is a cooperate building under the company Sun Corporation. Several apartment complexes in Australia are now following this new fad to help appeal to their Asian market.\n\nThe software platform Symbian, used by Finnish telecommunications firm Nokia in their Series 60 platform, avoids releases beginning with 4, as it did when it was EPOC and owned by Psion (there was no Psion Series 4, and there was no 4th edition of S60). This was done \"as a polite gesture to Asian customers\". Similarly, Nokia did not release any products under the 4xxx series, although some of Nokia's other products do contain the number 4, such as the Series 40 platform, and the Nokia 3410.\n\nWhen area code 306 was nearing exhaustion in 2011, the Canadian Radio-television and Telecommunications Commission originally proposed that the new area code be 474. However, representatives from SaskTel requested that the new area code be 639 instead, to avoid the negative connotations of 4 in Asian cultures. 639 was subsequently approved as the new area code.\n\nThe Chinese smartphone manufacturer OnePlus chose to name its smartphone model after the 3 and 3T the 5, avoiding the number 4.\n\nThe \"British Medical Journal\" reported in a study that looked at mortality statistics in the United States over a 25-year period. They found that on the fourth day of the month, Asian people were thirteen percent more likely to die of heart failure. In California, Asians were twenty-seven percent more likely to die of a heart attack on that day. The purpose of the study was to see if psychological stress caused by belief in this superstition could indeed trigger deadly heart attacks and other fatal incidents.\n\n"}
{"id": "24394255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24394255", "title": "The Unparalleled Invasion", "text": "The Unparalleled Invasion\n\n\"The Unparalleled Invasion\" is a science fiction story written by Jack London. It was first published in \"McClure's\" in July 1910.\n\nUnder the influence of Japan, China modernizes and undergoes its own version of the Meiji Reforms in the 1910s. In 1922, China breaks away from Japan and fights a brief war that culminates in the Chinese annexation of the Japanese possessions of Korea, Formosa, and Manchuria. Over the next half century, China's population steadily grows, and eventually migration overwhelms European colonies in Asia. The United States and the other Western powers launch a biological warfare campaign against China, resulting in the destruction of China's population, the few survivors of the plague being killed out of hand by European and American troops. China is then colonized by the Western powers. This opens the way to a joyous epoch of \"splendid mechanical, intellectual, and art output\". In the 1980s war clouds once more gather between Germany and France, and the story ends with the nations of the world solemnly pledging not to use the same techniques they had against China.\n\n\"The Unparalleled Invasion\" was included in \"The Strength of the Strong\", a collection of stories by London published by Macmillan in 1914, which also included \"The Dream of Debs\", a critique of capitalist society in the US, and \"The Strength of the Strong\", which used a primitive background as metaphor of social injustice among men. \n\n\"The Unparalleled Invasion\" has been controversial for its depiction of genocide and has been cited as evidence of London's racism. The genocide is described in considerable detail and nowhere is any objection made to it. The terms \"yellow life\" and \"yellow populace\" appear in the story. It ends with the \"sanitation of China\" and its re-settlement by Westerners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "16040766", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16040766", "title": "Timeline of the Holocaust in Norway", "text": "Timeline of the Holocaust in Norway\n\nA timeline of the Holocaust in Norway is detailed in the events listed below.\n\n"}
{"id": "51611230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51611230", "title": "Timur Kuashev", "text": "Timur Kuashev\n\nTimur Kuashev (c. 1988 – August 1, 2014), was a Kabardino-Balkarian human rights activist with connections to Moscow-based rights organization Memorial and a freelance journalist for the magazine \"Dosh\" (or \"Dosch\") in Nalchik, Kabardino-Balkar Republic within the North Caucasus in Russia, he was found dead 15 kilometers from his home. His death was viewed as suspicious and as of 2017 the investigation is still not closed.\n\nKuashev was a journalist and human rights activist. He was aligned with a Moscow-based rights organization Memorial. A Russian journalist employed by a magazine by the name of \"Dosh\" (or \"Dosch\"). He had written for other publications, including \"Kavkazsky Uzel\" and \"Kavkazskaya Politika\". Outside of his career at \"Dosh\", he was also a blogger on the popular site, LiveJournal, in which he used blogging to criticize local law enforcement and regional policies.\n\nBefore he disappeared and was found dead, Kuashev had received threats from police after being detained in May from attending the funeral procession, which was held on the 150th anniversary of the ending of the Caucasian War. He told others, \"Employees of the Ministry of Internal Affairs (MIA) of the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic (KBR) had informed some national leaders that I was going to organize a provocation at the march on May 21, namely, to come there with Islamic banners. I declare that it's an absolute lie.\" The \"Kavkazsky Uzel\", an independent regional website, reported that the police who detained Kuashev threatened him in response to his blog posts which criticizing law enforcement. \"Kavkazsky Uzel\" reported that police told Kuashev, \"Continue on this path and this will bite you in the ass.\"\n\nThe disappearance of Kuashev occurred on the evening of July 31, after he had left his apartment to go on a jog. The following day his deceased body was found 15 kilometers from his apartment in a wooded area. There were signs that indicated poisoning, but investigations are ongoing. 6\n\nKuashev was found on the evening of August 1, 2014. In the outskirts of Nalchik, a suburb of Khasania, is where the body was located at the time of discovery. It was concluded that his death was not violent. An injection wound was found in the left armpit following autopsy. The cause of his death was revealed to be acute coronary insufficiency, but ultimately unknown and under continued investigation and appeals. Despite early indications of poisoning, there was no data suggesting it a possible cause.\n\nA trace of an injected substance was found in his blood stream along with a visual injection marking following the autopsy report days after his death. This differs from previous deaths recorded of journalists as other journalists were killed from gunshot wounds. After finding the injected substance, Valery Ustov, the head of the Investigative Management IC Russia for the Kabardino-Balkaria (KBR), said there would be further investigation and described this type of suspected murder for a journalist as unique in Russia.\n\nAs of 2015, Russia has been ranked 180 out of 199 countries in terms of press freedom. Under Vladimir Putin, Russia's ranking for press freedom has steadily declined in the past decade. These rankings come after numerous rumors of Putin's history with journalists that do not agree with him and the possibility of him having them killed. Rumors stem from the death of 34 journalists since 2000, the year Putin was elected into office. For comparison, 2 journalists have died in China and 3 journalists deaths within the United States within the same time period.\n\nAfter the death of Kuashev, the North Caucasus adds him to one of the ten unsolved deaths in journalists since 2000. In the area of Nalchik and the North Caucasus republic of Kabardino-Balkariya, journalists and human rights activists are known to be killed consistently and with impunity.\n\nThe death of Timur Kuashev has moved people to continue to investigate the crisis in Ukraine considering the amount of disappearances, deaths, and injuries pertaining to journalists. Over the course of a year, 7 journalists have been killed in Ukraine, over 170 individuals have been attacked or injured, and over 80 journalists have been detained and abducted. Kuashev was reported by Reporters Without Borders to be the only journalist to be killed in Russia in 2014.\n\nWithin days before his death, colleagues believed that Kuashev was under constant surveillance strictly pertaining to his undercover professional activities. \"Dosh\" editor Abdulla Duduev released a statement on his death saying, \"We are absolutely sure that Kuashev's death is directly related to his professional activities.\"\n\nIrina Bokova, director-general of UNESCO, said, “It is important for press freedom and for journalists to be able to carry out their professional duties without fearing for their lives. I trust that the authorities will spare no efforts in shedding light into the circumstances of the death of Timur Kuashev.”\n\nReporters Without Borders released a statement which said, \"Timur always wrote effectively, honestly and courageously... at our request on the most current topics – politics, illegal actions by the security forces and special operations.\"\n\nDays after his investigation, Dunja Mijatovic, a representative from the Organization for Security and Co-operation in Europe and Media of Freedom issued a statement saying, “I express my condolences to Kuashev’s family and colleagues, and hope the authorities will conduct a thorough investigation into the circumstances of his death.\"\n\nSix months after the death of Timur Kuashev, a petition was created and filled with close to 500 signatures insisting the Russian government, Investigating Committee of the Russian Federation and the Public Human Rights Centre of the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic to push for faster judicial inquiry to come to conclusion for cause of death and to discover the perpetrators who may have caused his death. Valery Khatazhukov, the current head of Public Human Rights Centre of the Kabardino-Balkarian Republic, signed the document and sent it to different investigative parties.\n\n"}
{"id": "26240431", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26240431", "title": "Turismod", "text": "Turismod\n\nTurismod (Latin: \"Turismodus\") was a son of the king of the Gepids Thurisind. He was killed in 551 or 552 on the battlefield by Alboin, son of the king of the Lombards Audoin.\n\nTurismod was the oldest son of Thurisind and a brother of Cunimund; his sibling eventually succeeded their father in circa 560. Thurisind seems to have given to his eldest son the rank of commander of the Gepids in the city of Sirmium as a way to guarantee his succession to the throne, as this position made him heir apparent. He seems to have had a son, Reptila, who under the reign of Cunimund held Sirmium.\n\nAccording to Paul the Deacon, he participated to the third Lombard-Gepid War; in 551 or 552 in the decisive battle of Asfeld he was slain there by Alboin, son of the king of the Lombards Audoin. His death was always according to Paul the turning point of the battle, as when the other Gepids saw their leader dead they broke the ranks and escaped.\n\nAfter the war, tells Paul who probably took the story from oral tradition, maybe an heroic lay dedicated to Alboin, Turismod's killer, Alboin, in order to obtain the right to become his father's table-companion as was customary to Lombards had to ask for the hospitality of a foreign king and have the king arm him; for this initiation he went with 40 companions to the court of Turismod's father Thurisind.\n\nThurisind, in observance of the laws of hospitality, lets Alboin and his companions participate to a banquet given in their honor offering Alboin the seat where Turismod habitually stood. Following a mockery by Turismod's brother Cunimund and Alboin's rejoinder, a clash is avoided just by Thurisind's intervention, who puts peace and sends away Alboin with Turismod's arms. According to István Boná, who believes in the veracity of this story, the facts may have taken place as described by Paul but it also could reflect a secret peace condition imposed by Audoin on Thurisind under which the Gepid king had to arm his son's killer.\n\n"}
{"id": "27340205", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27340205", "title": "West African lungfish", "text": "West African lungfish\n\nThe West African lungfish (\"Protopterus annectens\"), also known as the Tana lungfish or simply African lungfish, is a species of African lungfish. It is found in a wide range of freshwater habitats in West and Middle Africa, as well as the northern half of Southern Africa.\n\n\"Protopterus annectens\" has a prominent snout and small eyes. Its body is long and eel-like, some 9–15 times the length of the head. It has two pairs of long, filamentous fins. The pectoral fins have a basal fringe and are about three times the head length, while its pelvic fins are about twice the head length. In general, three external gills are inserted posterior to the gill slits and above the pectoral fins.\n\nIt has cycloid scales embedded in the skin. About 40–50 scales occur between the operculum and the anus, and 36–40 around the body before the origin of the dorsal fin. It has 34–37 pairs of ribs. The dorsal side is olive or brown in color and the ventral side is lighter, with great blackish or brownish spots on the body and fins except on its belly. They reach a length of about in the wild.\n\nThe West African lungfish is distributed throughout Africa. It has two subspecies; \"P. a. annectens\" is found primarily in the basins of Sahel as well as Guinea and Sierra Leone whilst the other subspecies, \"P. a.\" \"brieni\" is known largely from the upper Congo River area and from the Zambezi of Mozambique.\n\nLike other African lungfish, the West African lungfish is an obligate air breather and a freshwater-dwelling fish. It is demersal, meaning that it lives primarily buried within riverbeds. Due to the dry season frequently drying the rivers and floodplains in which it lives, the West African lungfish can aestivate for up to a year; however the West African lungfish generally only aestivates between wet seasons.\n\nThe Tana lungfish has a diet not unlike other lungfish, consisting of various mollusks, crabs, prawn, and small fish within its distribution. It can also go for up to 3 1/2 years without any food intake whatsoever. During this time period it behaves much like an estivating fish in that it buries itself in the mud and does not move until more favorable conditions occur.\n\n"}
{"id": "41523944", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41523944", "title": "Widow’s Pension", "text": "Widow’s Pension\n\nThe Widow’s Pension was one of the oldest established part of the Social Security system in the United Kingdom. It was replaced by Bereavement benefit in April 2001.\n\nBenefits for Widows were first established by the Widows', Orphans' and Old Age Contributory Benefits Act 1925 at a rate of 10 shillings a week for life, or remarriage.\n\nTo get any benefit as a widow a woman had to be married to her husband, and be his only wife, at the time of his death. She was still entitled if separated or if a divorce had not reached the stage of decree absolute. All Widow's benefits stop on remarriage.\n\nThe claimant had to be over 45 but under 65 either when their husband died or when their Widowed Mother’s Allowance stopped.\n\nThere was also an entitlement an earnings related component. Widows under 55 when their husband died or when they ceased being entitled to Widowed Mother’s Allowance got a reduction is 7% for each year they were below 55.\n\nWidow’s Pension lasted until retirement and was taxable\n\nIt counted in full for all Means-tested benefits. It was possible to get Incapacity Benefit together with widow’s pension.\n\nWidowed Parent's Allowance\n"}
