{"id": "6589302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6589302", "title": "Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897", "text": "Aboriginals Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897\n\nThe Aboriginal Protection and Restrictions of the Sale of Opium Act 1897 was an Act of the Parliament of Queensland. It was the first instrument of separate legal control over Aboriginal people, and, according to Henry Reynolds, it \"was far more restrictive than any [contemporary] legislation operating in New South Wales or Victoria, and implemented a system of tight controls and closed reserves.\"\n\nBy the late nineteenth century, many in Queensland believed that the Aborigines, greatly reduced in number due to dispersal, malnutrition, opium and diseases, were a \"dying race\". The Government of Queensland, under pressure from aspects of the community, commissioned Archibald Meston to assess the issue. Meston made a number of recommendations, some of which underpinned the Aboriginal Protection and Restriction of the Sale of Opium Act 1897. Though the Act's creators considered it a solution to a short-term problem, its administrators used it as a device for social engineering and control. Public servants rather than politicians oversaw much of the decision-making, and individual protectors had substantial autonomy in how they implemented the Act. \n\nThe Act could be used to justify definitions of Aboriginality, but even with the help of the Act, these were often contradictory and generally subject to interpretation or variation throughout the first decades after Federation. For example, in 1905, Queensland's Chief Protector of Aboriginals cited the Act to define a \"half-caste\" as \"Any person being the offspring of an aboriginal mother and other than an aboriginal father – whether male or female, whose age, in the opinion of the Protector, does not exceed sixteen, is deemed to be an aboriginal\". The Chief Protector then went on to describe a \"quadroon\" as the \"offspring\" of a half-caste woman, by a \"white, &c.\" (presumably other non-Aboriginal) father. Definitions were no clearer fifteen years later. The Queensland Aboriginals Department refers to \"European half-caste mothers\" in its 1920 Report alongside \"half-breeds\", \"half-castes\" and Aboriginals: it does not expand upon how the Department made the distinction between a half-breed and half-caste, a native and an Aboriginal. Where no other information was available, white observers judged degrees of ancestry. In Queensland at least, once it had bestowed a racial category upon its charges, the Aboriginals Department treated its subjects according to their variations in skin colour.\n"}
{"id": "21469606", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21469606", "title": "Active daylighting", "text": "Active daylighting\n\nActive daylighting is a system of collecting sunlight using a mechanical device to increase the efficiency of light collection for a given lighting purpose. Active daylighting systems are different from passive daylighting systems in that passive systems are stationary and do not actively follow or track the sun.\n\nThere are two types of active daylighting control systems: closed loop solar tracking, and open loop solar tracking systems.\n\nClosed loop systems track the sun by relying on a set of lens or sensors with a limited field of view, directed at the sun, and are fully illuminated by sunlight at all times. As the sun moves, it begins to shade one or more sensors, which the system detect and activates motors or actuators to move the device back into a position where all sensors are once again equally illuminated.\n\nOpen loop systems track the sun without physically following the sun via sensors (although sensors may be used for calibration). These systems typically employ electronic logic which controls device motors or actuators to follow the sun based on a mathematical formula. This formula is typically a pre-programmed sun path chart, detailing where the sun will be at a given latitude and at a given date and time for each day.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30010315", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30010315", "title": "Administrative law in Ukraine", "text": "Administrative law in Ukraine\n\nAdministrative law of Ukraine is the body of law that governs the activities of administrative agencies of non-state entities, while also subjecting state actions to the rule of law, offering regulated entities a legal means to contest administrative decisions.\n\nA regulation is an officially defined, legally compulsory and effected by state compulsion behavior norm applying to participants that guarantees public rights and liberties of residents and normal functioning of civil society and the state.\n\nRegulated entities both have defined rights and bear legal responsibilities.\n\nThe administrative law guarantees the rights and liberties of regulated entities and enables civil society and the state to operate in a well-defined manner.\n\nThe subjects of the administrative law are natural and legal persons, which have rights and legal liabilities and are empowered with specific legal properties.\n\nThe main methods of the administrative law are persuasion and compulsion.\n\nAdministrative law is enforced by the district (municipal) court and the appeals system that reviews disputed cases. The court is responsible for protecting the rights, liberties and legal interests of natural and legal persons, including regulated entities and the general public. The system works by attempting to prevent breaches and remedying the breaches that do occur, via reimbursement of losses to victims and bringing guilty persons to administrative and/or other legal responsibility.\n\n"}
{"id": "49943439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49943439", "title": "Ali Abdel Aal", "text": "Ali Abdel Aal\n\nAli Abdel Aal Sayyed Ahmed (born 29 November 1948) is an Egyptian law professor and politician. He has been Speaker of the House of Representatives since 10 January 2016. As law professor he worked at Ain Shams University and specialized in constitutional law.\n\nAbdel Aal was born on 29 November 1948. He studied law and obtained a degree in 1972. The next year he started working as a deputy to a prosecutor. In 1974 he became a university lecturer. Ten years later he obtained his PhD in State at the University of Paris. \n\nAbdel Aal was cultural attaché in the city of his alma mater from 1987 to 1991. The next year he served as constitutional advisor to the Parliament of Egypt. In 1993 he helped with the drafting of the Constitution of Ethiopia. As a constitional advisor he was employed by the Royal Court of Kuwait between 1993 and 2011. Abdel Aal worked as constitutional law professor at Ain Shams University.\n\nAbdel Aal was one of the constitional experts who worked on the Egyptian Constitution of 2014. In 2015 he was the head of a committee which drafted three new electoral laws.\n\nIn the 2015 parliamentary elections Abdel Aal was elected on the For the Love of Egypt list for the Aswan Constituency. He was elected Speaker of the House of Representatives on 10 January 2016. He obtained 401 of 585 votes.\n"}
{"id": "4118207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4118207", "title": "Anticipatory bail", "text": "Anticipatory bail\n\nUnder Indian criminal law, there is a provision for anticipatory bail under Section 438 of the Criminal Procedure Code. Law Commission of India in its 41st report recommended to incorporate this provision in procedure code. This provision allows a person to seek bail in anticipation of an arrest on accusation of having committed a non-bailable offence.\n\nOn filing anticipatory bail, the opposing party is notified about the bail application and the opposition can then contest the bail application in court (public prosecutor can also be used to do this).\n\nAnticipatory bail is a direction to release a person on bail, issued even before the person is arrested.\n\nWhen any person apprehends that there is a move to get him arrested on false or trumped up charges, or due to enmity with someone, or he fears that a false case is likely to be built up against him, he has the right to move the court of Session or the High Court under section 438 of the code of Criminal Procedure for grant of bail in the event of his arrest, and the court may, if it thinks fit, direct that in the event of such arrest, he shall be released on bail.Anticipatory Bail can be granted by Sessions Court, High Court and Supreme Court.\n\nThe High Court or the court of session may include such conditions in the light of the facts of the particular case, as it may think fit, including: \n\n\nIf such person is thereafter arrested, and is prepared either at the time of arrest or at any time while in the custody of such officer to give bail, he shall be released on bail and the magistrate taking cognizance of such offence decides that warrant should be issued against that person, he shall issue a bailable warrant in conformity with the direction of the court granting anticipatory bail.\nSupreme Court while dealing the case of Sidhram Mhetre, held certain conditions imposed by High Court to be not required & contrary to provisions of anticipatory bail.\n\nThe applicant must show by disclosing special facts and events that he has reason to believe, that he may be arrested for a non-bailable offence so that the court may take care to specify the offence or offences in respect of which alone the order will be effective and it is not a blanket order covering all other offences.\n\nAn accused is free on bail as long as the same is not cancelled. The High Court or Court of Session may direct that any person who has been released on bail be arrested and commit him to custody on an application moved by the complainant or the prosecution.\n\n"}
{"id": "49750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49750", "title": "Arms control", "text": "Arms control\n\nArms control is a term for international restrictions upon the development, production, stockpiling, proliferation and usage of small arms, conventional weapons, and weapons of mass destruction. Arms control is typically exercised through the use of diplomacy which seeks to impose such limitations upon consenting participants through international treaties and agreements, although it may also comprise efforts by a nation or group of nations to enforce limitations upon a non-consenting country.\n\nArms control treaties and agreements are often seen as a way to avoid costly arms races which could prove counter-productive to national aims and future peace. Some are used as ways to stop the spread of certain military technologies (such as nuclear weaponry or missile technology) in return for assurances to potential developers that they will not be victims of those technologies. Additionally, some arms control agreements are entered to limit the damage done by warfare, especially to civilians and the environment, which is seen as bad for all participants regardless of who wins a war.\n\nWhile arms control treaties are seen by many peace proponents as a key tool against war, by the participants, they are often seen as simply ways to limit the high costs of the development and building of weapons, and even reduce the costs associated with war itself. Arms control can even be a way of maintaining the viability of military action by limiting those weapons that would make war so costly and destructive as to make it no longer a viable tool for national policy.\n\nEnforcement of arms control agreements has proven difficult over time. Most agreements rely on the continued desire of the participants to abide by the terms to remain effective. Usually, when a nation no longer desires to abide by the terms, they usually will seek to either covertly circumvent the terms or to simply end their participation in the treaty. This was seen in Washington Naval Treaty (and the subsequent London Naval Treaty), where most participants sought to work around the limitations, some more legitimately than others. The United States developed better technology to get better performance from their ships while still working within the weight limits, the United Kingdom exploited a loop-hole in the terms, the Italians misrepresented the weight of their vessels, and when up against the limits, Japan simply left the treaty. The nations which violated the terms of the treaty did not suffer great consequences for their actions. Within little more than a decade, the treaty was abandoned. The Geneva Protocol has lasted longer and been more successful at being respected, but still nations have violated it at will when they have felt the need. Enforcement has been haphazard, with measures more a matter of politics than adherence to the terms. This meant sanctions and other measures tended to be advocated against violators primarily by their natural political enemies, while violations have been ignored or given only token measures by their political allies.\n\nMore recent arms control treaties have included more stringent terms on enforcement of violations as well as verification. This last has been a major obstacle to effective enforcement, as violators often attempt to covertly circumvent the terms of the agreements. Verification is the process of determining whether or not a nation is complying with the terms of an agreement, and involves a combination of release of such information by participants as well as some way to allow participants to examine each other to verify that information. This often involves as much negotiation as the limits themselves, and in some cases questions of verification have led to the breakdown of treaty negotiations (for example, verification was cited as a major concern by opponents of the Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty, ultimately not ratified by the United States).\n\nNations may remain in a treaty while seeking to break the limits of that treaty as opposed to simply withdrawing from it. This is for two major reasons. To openly defy an agreement, even if one withdraws from it, often is seen in a bad light politically and can carry diplomatic repercussions. Additionally, if one remains in an agreement, competitors who are also participatory may be held to the limitations of the terms, while withdrawal releases your opponents to make the same developments you are making, limiting the advantage of that development.\n\nScholars and practitioners such as John Steinbruner, Jonathan Dean or Stuart Croft worked extensively on the theoretical backing of arms control. Arms control is meant to break the security dilemma. It aims at mutual security between partners and overall stability (be it in a crisis situation, a grand strategy, or stability to put an end to an arms race). Other than stability, arms control comes with cost reduction and damage limitation. It is different from disarmament since the maintenance of stability might allow for mutually controlled armament and does not take a peace-without-weapons-stance. Nevertheless, arms control is a defensive strategy in principle, since transparency, equality, and stability do not fit into an offensive strategy.\n\nOne of the first recorded attempts in arms control was a set of rules laid down in ancient Greece by the Amphictyonic Leagues. Rulings specified how war could be waged, and breaches of this could be punished by fines or by war.\n\nThere were few recorded attempts to control arms during the period between this and the rise of the Roman Catholic Church. In the 8th and 9th centuries AD, swords and chain mail armor manufactured in the Frankish empire were highly sought after for their quality, and Charlemagne (r. 768-814), made their sale or export to foreigners illegal, punishable by forfeiture of property or even death. This was an attempt to limit the possession and use of this equipment by the Franks' enemies, including the Moors, the Vikings and the Slavs. \n\nThe church used its position as a trans-national organization to limit the means of warfare. The 989 Peace of God (extended in 1033) ruling protected noncombatants, agrarian and economic facilities, and the property of the church from war. The 1027 Truce of God also tried to prevent violence between Christians. The Second Lateran Council in 1139 prohibited the use of crossbows against other Christians, although it did not prevent its use against non-Christians.\n\nThe development of firearms led to an increase in the devastation of war. The brutality of wars during this period led to efforts to formalize the rules of war, with humane treatment for prisoners of war or wounded, as well as rules to protect non-combatants and the pillaging of their property. However, during the period until the beginning of the 19th century few formal arms control agreements were recorded, except theoretical proposals and those imposed on defeated armies.\n\nOne treaty which was concluded was the Strasbourg Agreement of 1675. This is the first international agreement limiting the use of chemical weapons, in this case, poison bullets. The treaty was signed between France and The Holy Roman Empire\n\nThe 1817 Rush–Bagot Treaty between the United States and the United Kingdom was the first arms control treaty of what can be considered the modern industrial era, leading to the demilitarization of the Great Lakes and Lake Champlain region of North America. This was followed by the 1871 Treaty of Washington which led to total demilitarisation.\n\nThe industrial revolution led to the increasing mechanisation of warfare, as well as rapid advances in the development of firearms; the increased potential of devastation (which was later seen in the battlefields of World War I) led to Tsar Nicholas II of Russia calling together the leaders of 26 nations for the First Hague Conference in 1899. The Conference led to the signing of the Hague Convention of 1899 that led to rules of declaring and conducting warfare as well as the use of modern weaponry, and also led to the setting up of the Permanent Court of Arbitration.\n\nA Second Hague Conference was called in 1907 leading to additions and amendments to the original 1899 agreement. A Third Hague Conference was called for 1915, but this was abandoned due to the First World War.\n\nAfter the World War I, the League of Nations was set up which attempted to limit and reduce arms. However the enforcement of this policy was not effective. Various naval conferences, such as the Washington Naval Conference, were held during the period between the First and Second World Wars to limit the number and size of major warships of the five great naval powers.\n\nThe 1925 Geneva Conference led to the banning of chemical weapons (as toxic gases) during war as part of the Geneva Protocol. The 1928 Kellogg-Briand Pact, whilst ineffective, attempted for \"providing for the renunciation of war as an instrument of national policy\".\n\nAfter World War II, the United Nations was set up as a body to promote and to maintain international peace and security. The United States proposed the Baruch Plan in 1946 as a way to impose stringent international control over the nuclear fuel cycle and thereby avert a global nuclear arms race, but the Soviet Union rejected the proposal and negotiations failed. Following President Eisenhower's 1953 Atoms for Peace speech to the UN General Assembly, the International Atomic Energy Agency was set up in 1957 to promote peaceful uses of nuclear technology and apply safeguards against the diversion of nuclear material from peaceful uses to nuclear weapons. The 1968 Nuclear Non-Proliferation Treaty was signed to prevent further spread of nuclear weapons technology to countries outside the five that already possessed them: the United States, the Soviet Union, the United Kingdom, France and China.\n\nThe Strategic Arms Limitation Talks (SALT) between the United States and Soviet Union in the late 1960s/early 1970s led to further weapons control agreements. The SALT I talks led to the Anti-Ballistic Missile Treaty and an \"Interim Strategic Arms Limitation Agreement\" (see SALT I), both in 1972. The SALT II talks started in 1972 leading to agreement in 1979. Due to the Soviet Union's invasion of Afghanistan the United States never ratified the treaty, but the agreement was honoured by both sides.\n\nThe Intermediate-Range Nuclear Forces Treaty was signed between the United States and Soviet Union in 1987 and ratified in 1988, leading to an agreement to destroy all missiles with ranges from 500 to 5,500 kilometers.\n\nThe 1993 Chemical Weapons Convention was signed banning the manufacture and use of chemical weapons.\n\nThe Strategic Arms Reduction Treaties were signed, as START I and START II, by the US and Soviet Union, further restricting weapons. This was further moved on by the Treaty on Strategic Offensive Reductions, which was in turn superseded by the New START Treaty.\n\nThe Comprehensive Test Ban Treaty was signed in 1996 banning all nuclear explosions in all environments, for military or civilian purposes, but it has not entered into force due to the non-ratification of eight specific states.\n\nIn 1998 the United Nations founded the United Nations Office for Disarmament Affairs UNODA. Its goal is to promote nuclear disarmament and non-proliferation and the strengthening of the disarmament regimes in respect to other weapons of mass destruction, chemical and biological weapons. It also promotes disarmament efforts in the area of conventional weapons, especially landmines and small arms, which are often the weapons of choice in contemporary conflicts.\n\nIn addition to treaties focused primarily on stopping the proliferation of nuclear weapons, there has been a recent movement to regulate the sale and trading of conventional weapons. As of December 2014, the United Nations is preparing for entry into force of the Arms Trade Treaty, which has been ratified by 89 nations. However, it is currently missing ratification by key arms producers such as Russia and China, and while the United States has signed the treaty it has not yet ratified it.\n\nSome of the more important international arms control agreements follow:\n\nOther treaties also envision the creation of NWFZ, among other objectives. These are the following:\n\n\n\n\n\nThe intergovernmental organizations for arms control are the following:\n\nThere are also numerous non-governmental organizations that promote a global reduction in nuclear arms and offer research and analysis about U.S. nuclear weapons policy. Pre-eminent among these organizations is the Arms Control Association, founded in 1971 to promote public understanding of and support for arms control. Others include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20210559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20210559", "title": "Army Appropriations Act of 1916", "text": "Army Appropriations Act of 1916\n\nIn United States federal legislation, the Army Appropriations Act of 1916 authorized money for the larger troop strength, and created the Council of National Defense (CND) which established communications and information sharing between military and industrial leaders. \n\nThe CND was a Cabinet committee with an Advisory Commission of prominent citizens working without pay. It was initially made up of 1) Walter S. Gifford, its Chairman, and a statistician with American Telephone and Telegraph Company (AT&T), 2) Howard E. Coffin, the Vice-President of the Hudson Motor Car Company, 3) Bernard Baruch, Wall Street financier, 4) Hollis Godfrey, the President of the Drexel Institute of Philadelphia, 5) Daniel Willard, the President of the Baltimore & Ohio Railroad (B&O), 6) Julius Rosenwald, the President of Sears, Roebuck and Company, 6) Samuel Gompers, the President of the American Federation of Labor (AFL), and 7) Dr. Franklin H. Martin, the Secretary-General of the American College of Surgeons. It was the 1st peacetime collusion of military and industrial leaders, laying the initial groundwork for the modern U.S. military-industrial complex.\n"}
{"id": "43520612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43520612", "title": "Balfour v Attorney-General", "text": "Balfour v Attorney-General\n\nBalfour v A-G [1991] 1 NZLR 519 is a leading case in New Zealand involving negligence in tort for defamation, as well as causation.\n\nBalfour was a primary teacher in the Hawkes Bay, and in 1976 he transferred to secondary teaching. In order for him to be able to continue to teach at a secondary level, he needed his teaching grade to be changed from List A, to List B.\n\nUnfortunately, he was only graded as List A2. Nor was he helped by the fact that in 1976, the Education Department started annual mandatory background checks on teachers, which the following note was put on his teaching records:\n\n\"Entirely unsuitable - would be List A3 [a slightly derogatory grading] teacher if returned to state system - a long practising and latent homosexual\".\n\nSoon thereafter, he was forced to resign his teaching position, and was also given a ban from teaching by the Hawkes Bay Secondary Schools district. which was subsequently reversed.\n\nIn the meantime, he had obtained employment in the private school sector, where apparently there were no background checks.\n\nThings came a to head in 1980 and 1981 when Balfour was unsuccessful in applying for training courses for working with special needs children, which he argued was as a result of this file note.\n\nHe claimed $150,000 in general and exemplary damages for defamation\n\nThe Court of Appeal ruled that there was no causation linking the ministry to his loss. Factors included that there was no record of the note being given to other parties, and even if this information was passed on, there was no proof that he was disadvantaged by these comments, as it was pointed out, that by the time of the trial in 1986, he had successfully obtained a teaching job in a public school as well as obtaining a List B grading. It was also said that being not selected had more to do with there being 66 candidates for only 20 positions.\n\nFOOTNOTE: Balfour subsequently gained attention for him and his wife Daryl being convicted of animal cruelty charges, getting a 20-year ban from owning either cats or dogs.\n"}
{"id": "11768709", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11768709", "title": "Banana republic", "text": "Banana republic\n\nIn political science, the term banana republic describes a politically unstable country with an economy dependent upon the exportation of a limited-resource product, such as bananas or minerals. In 1901, the American author O. Henry coined the term to describe Honduras and neighbouring countries under economic exploitation by U.S. corporations, such as the United Fruit Company. Typically, a banana republic has a society of extremely stratified social classes, usually a large impoverished working class and a ruling-class plutocracy, composed of the business, political and military elites of that society. Such a ruling-class oligarchy control the primary sector of the economy by way of the exploitation of labour; thus, the term \"banana republic\" is a pejorative descriptor for a servile dictatorship that abets and supports, for kickbacks, the exploitation of large-scale plantation agriculture, especially banana cultivation.\n\nIn economics, a banana republic is a country with an economy of state capitalism, by which economic model the country is operated as a private commercial enterprise for the exclusive profit of the ruling class. Such exploitation is enabled by collusion between the state and favored economic monopolies, in which the profit, derived from the private exploitation of public lands, is private property, while the debts incurred thereby are the financial responsibility of the public treasury. Such an imbalanced economy remains limited by the uneven economic development of town and country, and usually reduces the national currency into devalued banknotes (paper money), rendering the country ineligible for international development credit.\n\nIn the 19th century, the American writer O. Henry (William Sydney Porter, 1862–1910) coined the term \"banana republic\" to describe the fictional Republic of Anchuria in the book \"Cabbages and Kings\" (1904), a collection of thematically related short stories inspired by his experiences in Honduras, where he lived for six months until January 1897, hiding in a hotel in Trujillo, Colón, when he was wanted in the U.S. for embezzlement from a bank.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the United Fruit Company, a multinational American corporation, was instrumental to the creation of the banana republic phenomenon. Together with other American corporations, such as the Cuyamel Fruit Company, and with occasional support from the United States government, the corporations created the political, economic, and social circumstances that established banana republics in Central American countries such as Honduras and Guatemala.\n\nThe history of the \"banana republic\" began with the introduction of the banana fruit to the U.S. in 1870, by Lorenzo Dow Baker, captain of the schooner \"Telegraph\", who bought bananas in Jamaica and sold them in Boston at a 1,000 percent profit. The banana proved popular with Americans, as a nutritious tropical fruit that was less expensive than locally-grown fruit in the U.S., such as apples; in 1913, 25 cents () bought a dozen bananas, but only two apples. In 1873, to produce food for their railroad workers, the American railroad tycoons Henry Meiggs and his nephew, Minor C. Keith, established banana plantations along the railroads they built in Costa Rica; recognizing the profitability of exporting bananas, they began exporting the fruit to the Southeastern U.S.\n\nIn the mid-1870s, to manage the new industrial-agriculture business enterprise in the countries of Central America, Keith founded the Tropical Trading and Transport Company: one-half of what would later become the United Fruit Company (UFC); later Chiquita Brands International, created in 1899 by merger with the Boston Fruit Company, and owned by Andrew Preston. By the 1930s, the international political and economic tensions created by the United Fruit Company enabled the corporation to control 80–90 per cent of the banana business in the U.S.\n\nBy the late 19th century, three American multinational corporations (the United Fruit Company, the Standard Fruit Company, and the Cuyamel Fruit Company) dominated the cultivation, harvesting, and exportation of bananas, and controlled the road, rail, and port infrastructure of Honduras. In the northern coastal areas near the Caribbean Sea, the Honduran government ceded to the banana companies of a laid railroad, despite there being neither passenger nor freight railroad service to Tegucigalpa, the capital city. Among the Honduran people, the United Fruit Company was known as \"El pulpo\" (The Octopus), because its influence pervaded Honduran society, controlled their country's transport infrastructure, and sometimes manipulated Honduran national politics with anti-labor violence.\n\nIn 1924, despite the UFC monopoly, the Vaccaro Brothers established the Standard Fruit Company (later the Dole Food Company) to export Honduran bananas to the U.S. port of New Orleans. The fruit-exporting corporations kept U.S. prices low by legalistic manipulation of Latin American national land use laws to cheaply buy large tracts of prime agricultural land for corporate banana plantations in the republics of the Caribbean Basin, the Central American isthmus, and tropical South America; the American fruit companies then employed the dispossessed Latin American natives as low-wage employees.\n\nBy the 1930s the United Fruit Company owned 3.5 million acres of land in Central America and the Caribbean and was the single largest landowner in Guatemala. Such holdings gave it great power over the governments of small countries. That was one of the factors confirming the suitability of the phrase Banana Republics.\n\nIn the early 20th century, the American businessman Sam Zemurray (founder of the Cuyamel Fruit Company) was instrumental to establishing the \"banana republic\" stereotype, when he entered the banana-export business by buying overripe bananas from the United Fruit Company to sell in New Orleans. In 1910, Zemurray bought 6,070 hectares (15,000 acres) in the Caribbean coast of Honduras for exploitation by the Cuyamel Fruit Company. In 1911, Zemurray conspired with Manuel Bonilla, an ex-president of Honduras (1904–07), and the American mercenary Gen. Lee Christmas, to overthrow the civil government of Honduras and install a military government friendly to foreign businessmen.\n\nTo that end, the mercenary army of the Cuyamel Fruit Company, led by Gen. Christmas, effected a \"coup d'état\" against President Miguel R. Dávila (1907–11) and installed General Manuel Bonilla (1912–13). The U.S. ignored the deposition of the elected government of Honduras by a private army, justified by the U.S. State Department's misrepresenting President Dávila as too politically liberal and a poor businessman whose management had indebted Honduras to Great Britain, a geopolitically unacceptable circumstance in light of the Monroe Doctrine. The \"coup d'état\" was consequence of the Dávila government's having slighted the Cuyamel Fruit Company by colluding with the rival United Fruit Company to award them a monopoly contract for the Honduran banana, in exchange for the UFC's brokering of U.S.government loans to Honduras.\nThe political instability consequent to the \"coup d'état\" stalled the Honduran economy, and the unpayable external debt (ca. US$4 billion) of the Republic of Honduras was excluded from access to international investment capital. That financial deficit perpetuated Honduran economic stagnation and perpetuated the image of Honduras as a banana republic. Such a historical, inherited foreign debt functionally undermined the Honduran government, which allowed foreign corporations to manage the country and become sole employers of the Honduran people, because the American fruit companies controlled the economic infrastructure (road, rail, and port, telegraph and telephone) they had built in Honduras.\n\nIn the event, the U.S. dollar became the legal-tender currency of Honduras; the mercenary Gen. Lee Christmas became commander of the Honduran army, and later was appointed U.S. Consul to the Republic of Honduras. Nonetheless, 23 years later, after much corporate intrigue among the American businessmen, by means of a hostile takeover of agricultural business interests, Sam Zemurray assumed control of the rival United Fruit Company, in 1933.\n\nGuatemala suffered the regional socio-economic legacy of the \"banana republic\": inequitably distributed agricultural land and natural wealth, uneven economic development, and an economy dependent upon a few export crops—usually bananas, coffee, and sugar cane. The inequitable land distribution was an important cause of national poverty, and the concomitant sociopolitical discontent and insurrection. Almost 90 percent of the country's farms are too small to yield adequate subsistence harvests to the farmers, while two percent of the country's farms occupy 65 percent of the arable land, the property of the local oligarchy.\n\nDuring the 1950s, the United Fruit Company sought to convince the governments of U.S. Presidents Harry Truman (1945–53) and Dwight Eisenhower (1953–61) that the popular, elected government of President Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán of Guatemala was secret pro-Soviet for having expropriated unused \"fruit company lands\" to landless peasants. In the Cold War (1945–91) context of the pro-active anti-communist politics exemplified by U. S. Senator Joseph McCarthy in the years 1947–57, geo-political concerns about the security of the Western Hemisphere facilitated President Eisenhower's ordering and authorizing Operation Success, the 1954 Guatemalan coup d'état by means of which the U.S. Central Intelligence Agency deposed the democratically elected government (1950–54) of President Jacobo Árbenz Guzmán and installed the pro-business government of Colonel Carlos Castillo Armas (1954–57), which lasted for three years until his assassination by a presidential guard.\n\nA mixed history of elected presidents and puppet-master military juntas were the governments of Guatemala in the course of the 36-year Guatemalan Civil War (1960–96). However, in 1986, at the 26-year mark, the Guatemalan people promulgated a new political constitution, and elected Vinicio Cerezo (1986–91) president; then Jorge Serrano Elías (1991–93).\n\nIn the book \"Canto General\" (General Song, 1950), the Chilean poet Pablo Neruda (1904–73) denounced foreign multinational corporate political dominance of Latin American countries with the four-stanza poem \"La United Fruit Co.\"; the second-stanza excerpts read:\n\n... The Fruit Company, Inc.<br>\nReserved for itself the most succulent,<br>\nThe central coast of my own land,<br>\nThe delicate waist of the Americas.\n\nIt rechristened its territories<br>\nAs the \"Banana Republics\", <br>\nAnd over the sleeping dead,<br>\nOver the restless heroes<br>\nWho brought about the greatness,<br>\nThe liberty and the flags,<br>\nIt established a comic opera ...\n\nThe novel \"One Hundred Years of Solitude\" (1967), by Gabriel García Márquez, depicts the imperialist capitalism of foreign fruit companies as voracious socio-economic exploitation of natural resources of Macondo and of the people. Domestically, the corrupt national government of Macondo abets the business policies and labor practices of the foreign corporations, which brutally oppress the workers.\n\nThe protagonist, José Arcadio Segundo, has been organizing the workers of the banana plantations to jointly affect a work strike to protest the inhumane working conditions. Martial law is imposed upon Macondo, and the workers respond by sabotaging the banana plantations. In unexpected response, the national government diplomatically invites more than 3,000 workers to meet with provincial leaders to resolve their labor-and-management differences. The meeting is a deceit; the army surrounds the workers and methodically kill them with machine guns. Afterward, the three thousand corpses are collected onto a train and later dumped into the sea, to be forgotten.\n\nMeanwhile, the apparently dead José Arcadio Segundo also was loaded onto the coast-bound train of corpses, yet later escapes and walks back to Macondo. To his horror, José Arcadio learns that all memory of the massacre has been eliminated, no-one in Macondo remembers the killing of three thousand workers. The townsfolk refuse to believe José Arcadio when he tells them of the massacre, which he survived. Moreover, nature contributes to the oblivion with heavy, unrelenting rain that destroys the physical traces of the massacred workers.\n\nWoody Allen's 1971 film \"Bananas\" depicted a fictional banana republic called San Marcos; the film is also named for this term.\n\nCountries that obtained independence from colonial powers in the 20th and 21st centuries have at times thereafter tended to share traits of banana republics due to influence of large private corporations in their politics, for example; Maldives (resort companies), the Philippines (tobacco industry, American government and corporations).\n\nOn 14 May 1986, then Australian Treasurer Paul Keating stated that Australia might become a banana republic. This has received a lot of commentary and criticism and is seen as part of a turning point in Australia's political and economic history.\n\n"}
{"id": "160222", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=160222", "title": "CD ripper", "text": "CD ripper\n\nA CD ripper, CD grabber, or CD extractor is software that converts tracks on a Compact Disc to standard computer sound files, such as WAV, MP3, or Ogg Vorbis.\n\nIt rips raw digital audio in CD-DA format on a compact disc to a file or other output.\n\nIn the early days of computer CD-ROM drives and audio compression mechanisms (such as MP2), CD ripping was considered undesirable by copyright holders, with some attempting to retrofit copy protection into the simple ISO9660 standard. As time progressed, most music publishers became more open to the idea that since individuals had bought the music, they should be able to create a copy for their own personal use on their own computer. This is not yet entirely true; even with some current digital music delivery mechanisms, there are considerable restrictions on what an end user can do with their paid for (and therefore personally licensed) audio. Windows Media Player's default behaviour is to add copy protection measures to ripped music, with a disclaimer that if this is not done, the end user is held entirely accountable for what is done with their music. This suits most users who simply want to store their music on a memory stick, MP3 player or portable hard disk and listen to it on any PC or compatible device.\n\nThe Jargon File entry for \"rip\" notes that the term originated in Amiga slang, where it referred to the extraction of multimedia content from program data. Another term used for the process of ripping Audio-CDs is \"Digital Audio Extraction\" (DAE).\n\nAs an intermediate step, some ripping programs save the extracted audio in a lossless format such as WAV, FLAC, or even raw PCM audio. The extracted audio can then be encoded with a lossy codec like MP3, Vorbis, WMA or AAC. The encoded files are more compact and are suitable for playback on digital audio players. They may also be played back in a media player program on a computer.\n\nMost ripping programs will assist in tagging the encoded files with metadata. The MP3 file format, for example, allows tags with title, artist, album and track number information. Some will try to identify the disc being ripped by looking up network services like AMG's LASSO, FreeDB, Gracenote's CDDB, GD3 or MusicBrainz, or attempt text extraction if CD-Text has been stored.\n\nSome all-in-one ripping programs can simplify the entire process by ripping and burning the audio to disc in one step, possibly re-encoding the audio on-the-fly in the process.\n\nSome CD ripping software is specifically intended to provide an especially accurate or \"secure\" rip, including Exact Audio Copy, cdda2wav, CDex and cdparanoia.\n\nProperties of an optical drive helping in achieving a perfect rip are a small sample-offset (at best zero), no jitter, no or deactivateable caching, and a correct implementation and feed-back of the C1 and C2 error-states. There are databases listing these features for multiple brands and versions of optical drives. Also, EAC has the ability to autodetect some of these features by a test-rip of a known reference CD.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17363710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17363710", "title": "Chilean nationality law", "text": "Chilean nationality law\n\nChilean nationality law is based on both principles of jus soli and jus sanguini. Nationality law is regulated by Article 10 of the Political Constitution of the Republic of Chile.\n\nAny person born in Chile acquires Chilean citizenship at birth. The only two exceptions apply to children of persons in the service of a foreign government (like foreign diplomats) and to the children of foreigners who do not reside in the country. However, these children can apply to acquire Chilean nationality.\n\nChildren of Chilean citizens born abroad acquire the Chilean nationality at birth, if any of their parents or grandparents were Chilean through the principle of jus soli or naturalisation.\n\nForeigners may apply for Chilean citizenship if they meet the following criteria: \n\nIf any administrative authority should deprive a person of their Chilean nationality, it can be reclaimed personally or by anyone on their behalf at the Supreme Court, according to Article 12 of the Chilean Constitution.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42475272", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42475272", "title": "CivicEdu", "text": "CivicEdu\n\nOpen Civic Education (CivicEdu) is a Ukrainian massive open online courses (MOOC) web-portal with emphasis on civic education. It was initiated by Global Synergy in March, 2014 and is currently at the development stage. It is expected to open in autumn 2014.\n\nAlthough the list of courses has not been announced yet, Director of Global Synergy Oksana Firsova mentioned that the organization together with the Institute of Peace and Common Ground had started preparations regarding a conflict mediation course.\n"}
{"id": "2106225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2106225", "title": "Constructive eviction", "text": "Constructive eviction\n\nConstructive eviction is a term used in the law of real property to describe a circumstance in which a landlord either does something or fails to do something that he or she has a legal duty to provide (e.g. the landlord refuses to provide heat or water to the apartment), rendering the property uninhabitable. A tenant who is constructively evicted may terminate the lease and seek damages.\n\nTo maintain an action for damages, the tenant must show that:\n\nA tenant who suffers from a constructive eviction can claim all of the legal remedies available to a tenant who was actually told to leave.\n\n"}
{"id": "3302815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3302815", "title": "Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory", "text": "Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory\n\nThe Convention between the United Kingdom and China, Respecting an Extension of Hong Kong Territory, commonly known as the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory or the Second Convention of Peking, was a lease signed between Qing China and the United Kingdom on 9 June 1898. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Republic of China now keeps the original copy of the Convention in the National Palace Museum in Taiwan.\n\nIn the wake of China's defeat in the First Sino-Japanese War (18941895), the British took advantage of the other European powers' scramble to carve up the country and forced the treaty on the weakened Chinese government. \n\nBetween 6 March and 8 April 1898, the German government forced the Qing Empire into a 99-year lease of the Kiautschou Bay concession for a coaling station around Jiaozhou Bay on the southern coast of the Shandong Peninsula, to support a German global naval presence in direct opposition to the British network of global naval bases. This initiated a series of similar lease treaties with other European powers. On 27 March 1898, the Convention for the Lease of the Liaotung Peninsula was signed between the Russian Empire and the Qing Empire, granting Russia a 25-year lease of Port Arthur and Dalian, to support Russia's Chinese Eastern Railway interests in Manchuria. Consequently on 28 March 1898, Britain, anxious of the Russian presence in China, pressured the Qing Empire into leasing of Weihaiwei, which had been captured by the Empire of Japan in the Battle of Weihaiwei, the last major battle of the First Sino-Japanese War, for as long as the Russians occupying Port Arthur, to make checks and balances of Russia. During the negotiation, the British stated that they would further request for leasing of land if any foreign concession took place in Southern China.\n\nOn 10 April 1898, the French, who also wanted to get a share of the cake, forced the Qing Empire into a 99-year lease of Kwang-Chou-Wan to France to support France in southern China and Indochina. In order to maintain the balance of powers, Britain ordered Claude Maxwell MacDonald to pressure Qing Empire into allowing the expansion of Hong Kong for 200 miles. As a result, the Convention for the Extension of Hong Kong Territory was signed on 9 June 1898 in Beijing (Peking). The contract was signed to give the British full jurisdiction of the newly acquired land that was necessary to ensure proper military defence of the colony around the island. Some of the earliest proposals for the land's usage in 1894 included cemetery space, an exercise ground for British troops as well as land for development. From the British perspective concerns over security and territorial defence provided the major impetus for the agreement.\n\nUnder the convention the territories north of what is now Boundary Street and south of the Sham Chun River, and the surrounding islands, later known as the \"New Territories\" were leased to the United Kingdom for 99 years rent-free, expiring on 30 June 1997, and became part of the crown colony of Hong Kong. The Kowloon Walled City was excepted and remained under the control of Qing China. The territories which were leased to the United Kingdom were originally governed by Xin'an County, Guangdong province. Claude MacDonald, the British representative during the convention, picked a 99-year lease because he thought it was \"as good as forever\".\n\nSome of the land under the convention remains rural and it is home to virtually all of Hong Kong's remaining farmland. However, as the city districts have become increasingly crowded the government has developed urban areas since the 1950s. Particularly, the areas closest to Kowloon have become integrated into Kowloon districts and are no longer administratively included in the New Territories. Due to continuing population growth and crowding in the inner city, the New Territories satellite cities grew increasingly important to the point where a slight majority of the population now lives there.\n\nThis made it unfeasible to return the leased land alone as it would have split Hong Kong into two parts. The Chinese also started to pressure the British to return all of Hong Kong, taking the position that they would not accept so-called \"unequal treaties\" that were imposed on them by colonial powers.\n\nThe governments of the United Kingdom and the People's Republic of China (PRC) concluded the Sino-British Joint Declaration in 1984, under which the sovereignty of the leased territories, together with Hong Kong Island and Kowloon (south of Boundary Street) ceded under the Treaty of Nanking (1842) and Convention of Peking (1860), was scheduled to be transferred to the PRC on 1 July 1997. The territory was then transferred as scheduled.\n\n"}
{"id": "13401779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13401779", "title": "Decree (Belgium)", "text": "Decree (Belgium)\n\nIn Belgium, a decree (, ) is a form of legislation passed by community or regional parliaments, except by the Brussels Parliament. Decrees have the same legal force as laws, the main difference being that laws can be passed only by the Federal Parliament.\n\nThe following legislative assemblies have the power to pass decrees: the Flemish Parliament, the Parliament of the French Community, the Walloon Parliament, the Parliament of the German-speaking Community and the Assembly of the French Community Commission, which is informally known as the Brussels Francophone Parliament. The Flemish counterpart of the Brussels Francophone Parliament, the Council of the Flemish Community Commission, does not have the power to pass decrees. Instead, it legislates by regulation.\n\nUnlike laws, decrees are not subject to royal assent. Decrees are not signed and promulgated by the king but instead are promulgated by the community or regional government or, in the case of the Brussels Francophone Parliament, by the College of the French Community Commission. Unlike ordinances, decrees are not subject to judicial review or to supervision by the federal government.\n\n"}
{"id": "3923597", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3923597", "title": "Diploma privilege", "text": "Diploma privilege\n\nIn the United States, the diploma privilege is a method for lawyers to be admitted to the bar without taking a bar examination. Once used by as many as 32 U.S. states and the District of Columbia, Wisconsin is currently the longest-running state that offers a broad diploma privilege for admission to its state bar. New Hampshire has offered diploma privilege to students that attend the state's only law school since 2005 and the state of Iowa considered reinstating diploma privilege in 2014. Originally used as a method to foster the growth of formal legal education, the privilege started to fall into disuse early in the 20th century, in common with the tightening of requirements in other learned professions. The privilege was abolished in California in 1917. Most recently, West Virginia did away with the privilege in 1988, preceded by Montana and South Dakota in 1983 and Mississippi in 1981.\n\nIn 25 states, attorneys who were initially admitted to practice by another state's diploma privilege are eligible for admission to the state bar on motion of the admission committee.\n\nIn Wisconsin, JD graduates of the two American Bar Association-accredited law schools in the state (Marquette University Law School and the University of Wisconsin Law School) may seek admission to the State Bar of Wisconsin without having to sit for a bar examination. (LLM and SJD graduates of these law schools are not eligible for diploma privilege.)\n\nThe diploma privilege in Wisconsin dates to 1870, when it was passed by the Wisconsin State Legislature in the same legislation that established the University of Wisconsin Law School. At that time a law department was established in the State University and a course of study under able instructors was prescribed for students in the law department. The 1870 law provided that graduates of this department should be entitled to admission to the bar upon their certificate of graduation—that is, their law degree. It was offered to encourage future lawyers to get a formal legal education instead of simply \"reading law,\" which was the typical legal training of the time. This has ever since been known as \"diploma privilege.\"\n\nGraduates of out-of-state law schools, even if they are Wisconsin residents, must still take the Wisconsin bar exam to be admitted in Wisconsin. Likewise, graduates of Wisconsin law schools must take the bar exam in many other states in which they are going to practice. A number of U.S. states do not grant reciprocal admission for attorneys who obtained their bar admission through the diploma privilege, requiring those attorneys to take that state's bar exam, regardless of the length of that attorney's practice. The policy reasoning behind diploma privilege is to incentivize Wisconsin residents to attend in-state law schools and to keep Wisconsin residents working in-state. Another policy consideration is preventing \"brain drain\" in Wisconsin. The idea that the smartest of state will leave Wisconsin for their education or for their career, specifically to nearby Chicago, (The Iowa Bar Association cited similar territorial concerns). Another reason is that state of Wisconsin subsidizes in-state resident tuition for law students, and therefore incentives them to stay to retain the state's educational investment. It is also cited that diploma privilege helps keep youth in Wisconsin. \n\nIn \"Wiesmueller v. Kosobucki\", a class action lawsuit certified in the United States District Court for the Western District of Wisconsin in June 2008, the petitioners assert that the Wisconsin diploma privilege discriminates against interstate commerce in violation of the U.S. Constitution's Commerce Clause because it affords a diploma privilege in lieu of a bar examination only to lawyers graduating from Wisconsin's law schools. The suit sought injunctive relief to expand the privilege to all applicants to the Wisconsin Bar who obtain a law degree from any school accredited by the American Bar Association. The district court subsequently dismissed the case for failure to state a cause of action.\n\nOn July 9, 2009, the Seventh Circuit reversed the district court's dismissal of the case, saying \"we find ourselves in an evidentiary vacuum created by the early termination of the case,\" and remanded the case to the district court.\n\nNew Hampshire has offered diploma privilege to students that attend the state's only law school since 2005.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5703877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5703877", "title": "Drop dead date", "text": "Drop dead date\n\nIn trade and contract law, a drop dead date is a provision added to a legal or trade act, such as a contract or a court order. Such a provision sets a last-delay date (hence the name \"drop dead date\") past which certain consequences will automatically follow, such as cancelling the contract, taking property or entering a judgment.\n\nIn contract law, a typical drop dead date example is the contract for the baking of a birthday cake, where it is implied that a late delivery will constitute a material breach.\n\nIn German and Swiss Law, this is called a \"Fixgeschäft\".\n"}
{"id": "10214369", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10214369", "title": "Eric Volz", "text": "Eric Volz\n\nEric Volz (born May 19, 1979) is an American entrepreneur, author, and the managing director of The David House Agency, an international crisis resource agency based in Los Angeles. \"The New York Times\" recognized Volz as a highly sought crisis manager. He specializes in strategy for international show trials and other complex political and legal situations abroad.\nAfter his own high-profile wrongful imprisonment case, Volz formed the David House Agency. He was sentenced to a 30-year prison term in Nicaragua following his wrongful conviction for the November 2006 rape and murder of ex-girlfriend Doris Ivania Jiménez in San Juan del Sur.\n\nAn appellate court overturned the conviction on December 17, 2007, and Volz was released from prison four days later. He left Nicaragua immediately and went into hiding in an unknown location because of death threats and over concerns for his physical safety. His experience would become the foundation for his life’s work. In an interview with The New York Times, Volz stated that he named the David House Agency after the biblical “shepherd who slew a giant and knew he was on the right side of the equation.”\n\nFriends and supporters in both countries had insisted on Volz's innocence, claiming that the trial court ignored evidence, and that Volz was the victim of anti-gringo sentiment. Opponents in Nicaragua protested against his release due to what they perceived as special consideration as an American, pressure from the United States government, and accusations that Volz's family bribed the appellate court judges.\n\nVolz’s involvement is visible in some of the highest-profile cases of recent years, including: Matthew and Grace Huang, Jason Puracal, the ‘American Hikers in Iran’ case, Amir Hekmati, Kenneth Bae and Amanda Knox.\n\nUpon his return to the United States, Eric wrote a memoir about his experience, \"Gringo Nightmare: A Young American Framed for Murder in Nicaragua\". The book was published by St. Martin's Press.\n\nVolz was born in Northern California and is a former resident of Nashville, Tennessee. He is of Mexican descent and is fluent in Spanish. He received a degree in Latin American Studies from University of California, San Diego. Volz later moved to Managua, Nicaragua, where he launched \"El Puente\" (\"The Bridge\") magazine, advocating for smart growth and ecotourism.\n\nVolz’s international business career started in 2004 when he launched and published a bilingual conscious living and smart tourism magazine called El Puente (EP) in Nicaragua. He went on to establish an investment consulting practice and co-own a Century 21 franchise. After his experience of being wrongfully imprisoned in a foreign country, he authored his memoir Gringo Nightmare: A Young American Framed for Murder in Nicaragua, and became an established professional speaker.\n\nAfter his conviction was overturned, Volz began to be approached by families of other wrongfully imprisoned individuals seeking guidance on how to navigate similar situations. After several years, what began as pro-bono advice evolved into a private consultancy in 2009. Due to a high volume of cases, Volz founded the David House Agency in 2011.\n\nReferred to as its biggest victory so far, the David House Agency (along with the California Innocence Project) worked on behalf of Matthew and Grace Huang, an American couple of Asian descent from Los Angeles living in Qatar— accused of fatally abusing their adopted daughter who suffered from an eating disorder and other health issues from her deprived upbringing in Ghana.\n\nVolz assembled a defense that included evidence that the prosecution had faked a pathology report on the cause of the girl’s death. Volz's fight for the Huangs included repeated travels to the Middle East and Europe, where he engaged with Qatari government officials. He also pressed American diplomats in Washington and Qatar for their release. The Huangs were declared innocent on November 30, 2014, and in December of that year they returned to the United States.\n\nVolz managed the case of Seattle resident Jason Puracal, who was wrongfully convicted of international drug trafficking and money laundering in Nicaragua and sentenced to 22 years in prison. Volz’s defense strategy included appearances on CNN’s Anderson Cooper 360 and a ruling from the United Nations Working Group on Arbitrary Detention that Puracal’s detainment was in violation of international law and demanded his immediate release. Puracal’s release was ultimately secured after two years in prison.\n\nAmong other famous cases, Volz led the David House Agency’s involvement on the case of the three American hikers who wandered across the Iranian border and were arrested in 2009, and Amir Hekmati, a former U.S. Marine accused of espionage in Iran. Volz also advised family members of Kenneth Bae, a Korean-American missionary sentenced in 2013 by North Korea to 15 years of hard labor and freed in November 2014, and Amanda Knox.\n\nIn October 2014, Volz announced on his Twitter page the launch of the David House Foundation, a nonprofit, non-partisan think tank offering research and analysis on the growing trend of politically motivated detentions of westerners and travelers in foreign countries. The foundation hosts a niche news channel on its website called ShowTrial News, giving up-to-date information on past and current international wrongful imprisonment cases.\n\nOn November 21, 2006, Doris Ivania Jiménez, a Nicaraguan who had dated Volz, was murdered at midday in her clothing store Sol Fashion in San Juan del Sur, a Nicaraguan coastal town near Rivas. Volz was arrested and charged with her murder. However, according to both associates and mobile phone records, Volz was at his home in Managua, which also served as the magazine headquarters, conducting meetings and business, including a conference call with contacts in Atlanta, Georgia, in the United States, and telephone and internet logs confirm this. Managua is a two-hour drive from San Juan del Sur.\n\nPolice issued warrants for four men. Two were local San Juan del Sur Nicaraguan surfers, known drug-users and petty criminals, arrested soon after the murder. They were Julio Martín Chamorro López (30), known locally by his nickname \"Rosita\" and Nelson Antonio López Danglas, (24), known locally as \"Krusty.\" The third suspect, who was rumored to have been dating Doris Jiménez at the time of her death, was Nicaraguan college student Armando Llanes (20), whose college — Ave Maria College of the Americas, located near Managua — provided him an alibi for part of the time during which the rape and murder had been committed, hence he was never arrested. The fourth suspect was U.S. citizen Eric Volz, who had dated Jiménez for over year, but the couple had broken up by the summer of 2006.\n\nChamorro was nabbed after police saw him wandering near Sol Fashion shirtless, bearing what appeared to be fresh scratches and \"acting nervous.\" Danglas was also arrested. Physical exam records by the police noted that both Chamorro and Danglas bore \"scratches on their arms,” and Danglas was scratched “on seven different parts of his body,” including his penis.\n\nIn court testimony, a neighbor said that Chamorro had been hanging around Doris Jiménez more frequently prior to the murder, and five days before the event had overheard an angry Chamorro say, \"I don't give a damn about this Doris; she's a gringo chaser...\" Danglas, despite his fresh injuries, was offered full immunity in exchange for testifying against the American Eric Volz, who had ended a relationship with Doris six months prior. Krusty was released, while Rosita remained in custody, and later appeared as a co-defendant at the trial on February 14, 2007.\n\nThe third suspect, Armando Llanes, was never arrested despite the outstanding warrant for his arrest and whose charges were dropped when he produced a statement from his university registrar accounting for his whereabouts during some of the time of when the murder was said to have occurred. The prominent Nicaraguan journalist Camilo de Castro shared the results of his independent investigation during a live television interview, with special emphasis on inconsistencies in Armando Llanes’ alibi and the need for further investigation.\n\nVolz was arrested November 23, 2006, and charged with murder, based on the claims of surfers \"Rosita\" Chamorro and \"Krusty\" Danglas, who were both originally charged with the murder, and—per police records—who both bore physical scratches on their bodies, consistent with evidence that Jiménez had scratched her attacker(s). Later, Rosita admitted to journalist Tony D'Souza that his testimony had been coerced by the police. Volz was arrested despite the fact that ten witnesses and a variety of digital evidence placed Volz two hours away from the crime scene at the time of the murder—at his home in Managua. His home also served as the headquarters for his magazine, where he was conducting meetings and business at the time of the murder. Nelson Danglas (who had received full immunity in exchange for his testimony) was the only person who testified seeing Volz in San Juan del Sur just after the time police believe Doris Jimenez was killed.\n\nWith Danglas being given full immunity and Llanes never arrested, Chamorro and Volz were left to stand trial as co-defendants. \nTwo days before Volz's December 7 arraignment in Rivas, a car with loudspeakers circled through San Juan exhorting people to \"bring justice to the gringo!\" A huge crowd jeered as he was escorted into the courthouse; during the hearing, a woman outside could be heard shouting, \"Come out, gringo, we are going to murder you!\"\n\nThe murder and trial reportedly cracked open feelings of resentment among Nicaraguans, many of whom believed justice could be bought, saw the killing as a symptom of an invasion of foreigners seeking prime beachfront land. The trial was reportedly “chaotic,” and on at least two occasions the courtroom was surrounded by angry protesters; at one point forcing Volz and a U.S. Embassy security official to flee an angry mob in fear for their lives.\n\nAccording to Volz's attorneys, Nicaraguan prosecutors did not produce any physical evidence before or at trial. No physical evidence from the crime scene linked Volz to the slaying, and exculpatory evidence was disallowed.\nAlthough ten witnesses supported Volz's alibi and were with him at the time of the murder, the trial court judge, Ivette Toruño Blanco, disallowed the testimony of all of ten claiming their testimony would be redundant and only permitted the testimony of three people who were not with Volz at the time of the murder.\n\nOn February 14, 2007, a police officer testified that Rosita Chamorro, claimed that Volz and another foreigner, whom he did not identify, participated in the murder. In her testimony, Mercedes Alvarado, mother of the victim, described Volz as a jealous man whom her daughter believed would kill her because of his jealousy.\n\nAt the conclusion of the three-day trial, Judge Toruño Blanco convicted Volz and sentenced him to 30 years in prison. Friends and supporters in both countries had insisted on Volz's innocence, claiming that the trial court ignored evidence, and that Volz was the victim of anti-gringo sentiment.\n\nVolz’s family and friends started the Free Eric Volz campaign asserting Volz’s innocence via social media, including a YouTube documentary entitled “Eric Volz Wrongfully Imprisoned In Nicaragua”, and a website called Friends of Eric Volz . The San Francisco Chronicle identified the campaign as “high-tech and visible”, and was one of the first times the internet and social media had been used to raise awareness about a wrongful imprisonment case. The case received high levels of media attention, both in Spanish and English news markets including a front-page feature in the Wall Street Journal.\n\nVolz spent the next 14 months struggling to stay alive in prison until, on December 17, 2007, he was ordered released after an appeals court overturned the conviction. His passport and bail of $10,000 were never returned: Volz, however, was not immediately freed because a judge failed to show up for an afternoon meeting to arrange his release. Local judge Ivette Toruño Blanco delayed signing the order releasing him. On December 20, 2007, an appeals court in Granada signed release papers for Volz. The prosecutor decided to file a reversal to the appeal in the Nicaraguan supreme court despite the appellate ruling. It was four days before he was actually freed.\n\nVolz's mother appeared on NBC's \"Today\" on December 21, 2007, petitioning the Nicaraguan government to release her son. She received support from the White House with a speech from U.S. Secretary of State Condoleezza Rice. The same day, the appeals court signed release papers for Volz, who left Nicaragua on Friday afternoon, said Eddie Vasquez, a spokesman for the U.S. State Department.\n\nOpponents in Nicaragua protested against his release due to what they perceived as special consideration as an American, pressure from the United States government, and accusations that Volz's family bribed the appellate court judges.\n\nVolz left Nicaragua immediately and went into hiding in an unknown location outside Nicaragua because of death threats and over concerns for his physical safety.\n\nAmidst the political backdrop of this case, former Communist leader Daniel Ortega had ascended back to power in Nicaragua just weeks after Doris Jiménez's death. An unnamed senior US State Department official commented to media that the US ambassador to Nicaragua had spoken to officials up to and including President Daniel Ortega, to push the case along.\n\nThat same official noted that although it was viewed as being in the Ortega government’s best interest to implement the court’s decision to overturn Volz’s conviction, there was concern that the Nicaraguan government did not want to be perceived as caving to international pressure \n\nThe Sandinista National Liberation Front governments chief prosecutor, Julio Centeno, referred to Volz's liberation as a \"barbarity\", a view echoed by the Sandinista’s current Director of Human Rights Omar Cabezas.\n\nThe New York Times reported that the case “proved not who killed Ms Jimenez, but that justice in Nicaragua is a nebulous concept, subjective to the point of abstraction.” The outlet also reported that “Those who are certain that Mr. Volz killed Ms. Jimenez and those equally insistent that he did not agree on one thing: the case has laid bare the deficiencies in Nicaraguan justice”.\n\nOn November 17, 2008, Volz announced via a YouTube video that the Nicaraguan government had reopened its case against him after 11 months. In response, Volz filed a 700-page petition, Volz v. Nicaragua, to the Inter-American Commission on Human Rights of the Organization of American States (OAS) in 2009. The Commission’s response is still pending. Volz’s lawyers argued that retrying an acquitted person violates Nicaragua's constitution and they claimed political motivation, specifically anti-American sentiment, for this action.\n\nIn May 2010, St. Martin’s Press published a memoir by Volz entitled Gringo Nightmare. The book was edited by Charlie Spicer, who USA Today calls, \"publishing's most savvy true-crime editor\". A paperback edition was published a year later in May 2011.\n\nThe book launched with a first of its kind online \"Exhibit Hall\" that allows readers to review actual case materials such as: photographs and video from inside prisons, headshots of main characters, audio tapes from trial, autopsy reports, government documents, witness statements, crime scene photos, original police case file, defense motions, court rulings, and newspaper articles. The book's foreword was written by investigative journalist Bill Kurtis host of A&E Network's Investigative Reports, \"American Justice\", and \"Cold Case Files\". Bill Kurtis stated, \"This story should be issued with every passport.”\n\nThe book received praise after its release. Publishers Weekly said “There is much pain in Volz's memoir of being a young American in a near-perfect frame-up involving murder, tabloid headlines, police corruption, and political power plays in Nicaragua.” Outside Magazine said, “Volz walks us through his ordeal in clear, engaging prose, focusing on the trial and the challenges of daily life in rank Central American prisons.\n\n"}
{"id": "12070642", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12070642", "title": "European Union merger law", "text": "European Union merger law\n\nEuropean Union merger law is a part of the law of the European Union which regulates whether firms can merge with one another and under what conditions. It is part of competition law and is designed to ensure that firms do not acquire such a degree of market power on the free market so as to harm the interests of consumers, the economy and society as a whole.\n\nMergers and acquisitions are regulated by competition laws because they may concentrate economic power in the hands of a smaller number of parties. Oversight by the European Union, the competition laws have been enacted under the Directive 2005/56/EC on Cross-border mergers and the Economic Concentration Regulation 139/2004, known as the \"EUMR\". The law requires that firms proposing to merge apply for prior approval from the Commission, specifically mergers that transcend national borders and with an annual turnover of the combined business exceeds a worldwide turnover of over EUR 5000 million and Community-wide turnover of over EUR 250 million must notify and be examined by the European Commission. Merger regulation thus involves predicting potential market conditions which would pertain after the merger. The standard set by the law is whether a combination would \"significantly impede effective competition... in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening of a dominant position...\"\n\nOne reason why businesses may be motivated to merge is in order to reduce the transaction costs of negotiating bilateral contracts. Another is to take advantage of increased economies of scale. However, increased market share and size may also increase market power, strengthening the negotiating position of the business. This is good for the firm, but can be bad for competitors and downstream entities (such as distributors or consumers). A monopoly is the most extreme case, where prices might be raised to the monopoly price instead of the lower equilibrium price. An oligopoly is another potentially undesirable situation in which limited competition may allow higher prices than a market with more participants.\n\nUnder EC law, a concentration exists when a...\n\n\"change of control on a lasting basis results from (a) the merger of two or more previously independent undertakings... (b) the acquisition... if direct or indirect control of the whole or parts of one or more other undertakings.\" Art. 3(1), Regulation 139/2004, the European Community Merger Regulation\n\nThis usually means that one firm buys out the shares of another. The reasons for oversight of economic concentrations by the state are the same as the reasons to restrict firms who abuse a position of dominance, only that regulation of mergers and acquisitions attempts to deal with the problem before it arises, \"ex ante\" prevention of creating dominant firms. In the case of [T-102/96] \"Gencor Ltd v. Commission\" [1999] ECR II-753 the EU Court of First Instance wrote that merger control is there \"to avoid the establishment of market structures which may create or strengthen a dominant position and not need to control directly possible abuses of dominant positions.\"\n\nPrior to the implementation of Regulation 139/2004 and the turn towards a more effects-based approach to EU competition law, EU merger control was governed by EEC Regulation 4064/89. Under EEC Regulation 4064/89 (the 'old' regulation), a merger or concentration was prohibited if it would\"create or strengthen a dominant position as a result of which effective competition would significantly impeded\".The old substantive test is said to have encouraged two alternative interpretations of how to apply the test. The alternative interpretations suggest that, the presence of dominance alone is a sufficient condition to satisfy the dominance test and that as part of a two-tier test dominance is a necessary condition to satisfy before considering the dynamics of competition between the parties merging and the competitive characteristics of the market following the notification of a merger. The effective of the old \"dominance test\" increasingly began to be called into question with concerns regarding the issues of overenforcement and the false positives. The case of \"Airtours v Commission\" in 2002 served as the case that ultimately urged the Commission to recommend a change in EU merger regulation. The Commission prohibited the merger of Airtours and First Choice on the basis that it would create a collective dominant position in the market since there would be an incentive for the remaining firms in an oligopolistic market to restrict market capacity, leading to higher prices and increased profits as a result of subsequent market conditions following the merger. The oligopolists need not always \"behave as if there were one or more explicit agreements between them.\" The Commission believed it was \"sufficient that the merger makes it rational for the oligopolists...to act individually in ways which will substantially reduce competition between them.\" In the case of \"Airtours v Commission\", the Court of First Instance annulled the Commission's decision to prohibit the Airtours-First Choice merger on the grounds that the Commission's interpretation of collective dominance was not informed by the widely recognised indicator of anti-competitive behaviour in an oligopolistic market - tacit collusion. The \"Airtours\" legal action created a significant level of uncertainty in EU merger law as a perceived gap had arisen with the law at the time - the gap of the non-collusive oligopoly.\n\nIn response to the concerns raised regarding the \"dominance test\" and the non-collusive oligopoly gap in EU merger regulation, the European Council adopted Regulation 139/2004. Under Council (EC) Regulation 139/2004, a merger or concentration\"which would significantly impede effective competition, in the common market or in a substantial part of it, in particular as a result of the creation or strengthening of a dominant position, shall be declared incompatible with the common market\".\n\nMany commentators have commented on the need to create a new test. Legal academic Richard Whish described the EUMR of 2004 as \"disarmingly simple\", in that the 'dominance test' remains but the question posed by test is reversed. The new test, most commonly known as the 'SIEC' (significant impediment to effective competition) test, was employed to tackle the inefficiencies of the \"dominance test\" that mainly stemmed from the wording of the test and the prerequisite of an undertaking assuming a dominant position or the strengthening a dominant position in the market. The new 'SIEC' test is a reorganisation of the \"dominance test\" that eliminates \"dominance\" as a necessary requirement for SIEC and instead expresses SIEC as the single and sufficient condition for incompatibility with EU merger regulation. What amounts to a substantial lessening of, or significant impediment to competition is usually answered through empirical study. The market shares of the merging companies can be assessed and added, although this kind of analysis only gives rise to presumptions, not conclusions. The new test focuses on the subsequent changes to competition in a market following a merger, rather than whether the merged undertaking has acquire an excessive level of market power.\n\nThe effects-based approach of the 'SIEC' test allows the Commission to test for the possibly harmful effects of a merger on market competition without dismissing the efficiencies that may come about as a result of a merged entity using its dominant position in the market and economies of scale to reduce prices, increase innovation and increase consumer welfare. The \"dominance test\" would deem all mergers incompatible with the common market on the sole condition of dominance. Due to the wording of the new 'SIEC' test, efficiency defences are now allowed, in principle, as the focus on SIEC as opposed to dominance, means that a dominant merged entity will be able to argue the case for the merger on the grounds of increased consumer benefits, when applicable. However, from the 'SEIC' test's inception in 2004 to 2014 only a handful of petitioners argued the case for a merger using the efficiency defence, which could be due to the feelings that the defence of efficiency may signal weakness in the rest of the case for a merger. The 'SIEC' test set out to address the inefficiencies of the \"dominance test\", however, there has arguably been no radical change to the manner in which the Commission assesses merger but there is evidence to suggest that the Commission is moving towards focusing on the relevant market characteristics that are consistent with effects-based analysis of market competition.\n\nWhat amounts to a substantial lessening of, or significant impediment to competition is usually answered through empirical study. The market shares of the merging companies can be assessed and added, although this kind of analysis only gives rise to presumptions, not conclusions. The Herfindahl-Hirschman Index is used to calculate the \"density\" of the market, or what concentration exists. Aside from the maths, it is important to consider the product in question and the rate of technical innovation in the market. A further problem of collective dominance, or oligopoly through \"economic links\" can arise, whereby the new market becomes more conducive to collusion. It is relevant how transparent a market is, because a more concentrated structure could mean firms can coordinate their behaviour more easily, whether firms can deploy deterrents and whether firms are safe from a reaction by their competitors and consumers. The entry of new firms to the market, and any barriers that they might encounter should be considered.\n\nFirms who are engaged in a \"prima facie\" uncompetitive concentration may be able to show that their action nevertheless results in \"technical and economic progress\" mentioned in Art. 2(1) of the ECMR as the focus of the analysis is on whether the concentration results in an overall impediment to effective competition, described as an “effects based equilibrium approach.” “Technical and economic progress”, being a desirable effect on the market, will thus be accounted for in an assessment on whether the competitive equilibrium of the market will be positively or adversely affected by the proposed merger.\n\nThe Commission has published, as per Recital 29 of the ECMR, guidelines outlining the circumstances when economic efficiency might be factored into the assessment of whether a significant impediment to effective competition is present, such circumstances include whether a benefit has been produced to consumers, whether the benefit is a specific direct result of the merger and whether the benefit is verifiable and likely to materialise. Economic efficiency benefits were considered at great length by the Commission in \"UPS/TNT Express\" but ultimately it was concluded that a significant impediment to effective competition was still present even with the claimed efficiencies taken into account.\n\nAnother defence might be that a firm which is being taken over is about to fail or go insolvent, and taking it over leaves a no less competitive state than what would happen anyway. This was the case when the Commission considered the proposed acquisition of Shell’s Harburg refinery by Nynas in \"Nynas/Shell/Harburg Refinery\" and it accepted that the likely result of the merger not going ahead would be the closure of the refinery, thus the acquisition was allowed.\n\nMergers vertically in the market are rarely of concern, although in \"AOL/Time Warner\" the European Commission required that a joint venture with a competitor Bertelsmann be ceased beforehand. The EU authorities have also focussed lately on the effect of conglomerate mergers, where companies acquire a large portfolio of related products, though without necessarily dominant shares in any individual market.\n\nEU authorities' application of merger law in practice has been criticized for acting for protectionist reasons rather than sound economic reasons. For example, the EU blocked a proposed merger of General Electric and Honeywell on grounds of the possibility of \"leverage\" in other markets and \"portfolio effects\", even though United States regulators found that the merger would improve competition and reduce prices. Assistant Attorney General Charles James, along with a number of academics, called the EU's use of \"portfolio effects\" to protect competitors, rather than competition, \"antithetical to the goals of antitrust law enforcement.\" United States Secretary of the Treasury Paul O'Neill called the rejection of the GE-Honeywell merger \"off the wall\" and complained of European Union regulators \"They are the closest thing you can find to an autocratic organization that can successfully impose their will on things that one would think are outside their scope of attention.\"\n\nSimilar concerns were echoed by Australian industrial policy advocates when a change to its merger regulation was considered. It was argued that focusing on a “substantial lessening of competition” as opposed to market dominance might “obstruct mergers unnecessarily”, restrict the capacity of Australian companies to “compete effectively in the global marketplace” and that an intrusive merger policy might “hamper the growth of national industry.”\n\nA report commissioned by the EU however recommended that the law be expanded to also include acquisitions of minority shareholdings even when such an acquisition might not result in the transfer of control to the purchasing firm. The current regulation addresses only concentrations, which require that the acquisition results in the control of one firm by another, leaving the current regulation unable to address any adverse effects of non-controlling acquisitions on competition, many of which might be similar to the effects as a result of acquisitions resulting in control.\n\nThe Commission suggested that where one firm has influence and voting rights over another then that firm can “limit the competitive strategies available to the target, thereby weakening it as a competitive force”. The example given is the proposed merger between Ryanair and Aer Lingus which would have resulted in Ryanair acquiring control, the proposal was blocked by the Commission on the basis that competition on a number of routes could have been harmed by Ryanair’s strengthened dominant position. However, the Commission was not able to examine the potentially harmful competitive effects of the existing minority shareholding in Aer Lingus owned by Ryanair despite the British National Competition Authorities being free to do so.\n\n"}
{"id": "25920775", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25920775", "title": "Fire Technology", "text": "Fire Technology\n\nFire Technology is a peer-reviewed journal publishing scientific research dealing with the full range of actual, possible, and potential fire hazards facing humans and the environment. It publishes original contributions, both theoretical and empirical, that contribute to the solution of problems in fire safety and related fields. It is published by Springer in conjunction with the National Fire Protection Association and the Society of Fire Protection Engineers.\n\nTopics include material testing, fire modelling, detection and suppression, performance-based building design, building code, emergency evacuation and human behaviour, fire investigation, wildfire and fire risk analysis.\n\nAnnually, three awards are presented to the best papers appearing in Fire Technology. The Harry C. Bigglestone Award for excellence in communication of fire protection concepts is given by the Fire Protection Research Foundation to the best overall paper. The Jack Bono Award for engineering communications is given by The Society of Fire Protection Engineers’ Educational and Scientific Foundation to the paper that has most contributed to the advancement of professional fire protection engineering. And the Tibor Z. Harmathy Award for the best paper led by a student given by Springer.\nThe Jack Watts Award for Outstanding Reviewer of Fire Technology is presented annually to those whose reviews were most valuable in terms of the quality, in-depth, number and timeliness.\n\nHarry C. Bigglestone Award is given annually to the paper appearing in \"Fire Technology\" that best represents excellence in the communication of fire protection concepts. Accompanying this award is a USD 2,000 cash prize from the Fire Protection Research Foundation.\n\nIt is named to honour the memory of Harry C. Bigglestone, who served as a trustee of the Fire Protection Research Foundation and chair of the NFPA Committee on Central Station Signaling Systems and who was a fellow and past president of the Society of Fire Protection Engineers.\n\nSource: National Fire Protection Association\n"}
{"id": "2556089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2556089", "title": "Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China", "text": "Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China\n\nThe Four-Stage Theory of the Republic of China or the Theory of the Four Stages of the Republic of China is a viewpoint proposed by Chen Shui-bian, the President of the Republic of China (Taiwan) from 2000 to 2008, in 2005. It is a viewpoint regarding the political status of the Republic of China, whose government retreated to Taiwan after the Chinese Civil War in 1949. The main idea of the theory is that the time line for the development of the Republic of China can be classified into four stages, which are:\n\n\nBy this theory, Chen pointed out that the Republic of China was at the 4th stage after the first ruling party rotation of the central government in 2000. That is, Taiwan, with the official name called the \"Republic of China\", is already an independent sovereign state separate from People's Republic of China. This theory is welcomed by the mainstream of the Pan-Green coalition (led by the Democratic Progressive Party) in Taiwan, which supports eventual \"de jure\" Taiwan independence; but is not welcomed by most members of the Pan-Blue coalition (Kuomintang), which supports the eventual reunification of Taiwan with mainland China as part of a single \"Chinese nation\". Some members of the more strongly pro-independence Taiwan Solidarity Union also oppose this view since they deem the ROC to be an illegitimate foreign and colonial regime that should be replaced by the proposed \"Republic of Taiwan\". The Pan-Blue Coalition agrees with the first three stages, but disagrees with the fourth stage, and prefers to maintain the distinction between the \"Republic of China\" (the polity) and \"Taiwan\" (part of the territory the polity governs). The government of the People's Republic of China has also voiced opposition against the fourth stage on the grounds that such an interpretation is a step closer to \"de jure\" Taiwan independence. (Officially, the PRC claims the existence of the ROC only until 1949.)\n\nBoth the \"Free China Journal\" and the \"Free China Weekly\" often referred to the polity as the \"Republic of China on Taiwan\" prior to Lee Teng-hui taking office as the first Taiwan-born President of the Republic of China. During Lee's administration, the term remained in use, and he used the term in his speech at Cornell University, Ithaca, New York, United States in June 1995. It was used to identify the Republic of China with its remaining major component – the island of Taiwan, as opposed to its decades-long claim to all China since losing the civil war in 1949. Prior to this speech, the government officials used \"Republic of China\" when the name of the state was used. Lee's usage is considered as a departure from the convention, as this usage can be interpreted in the sense that the Republic of China's sovereignty does not extend to mainland China, which the People's Republic of China controls.\n\nThe Democratic Progressive Party's 1999 Resolution on Taiwan's Future, which is accorded equivalent status as the Party charter, serves as the baseline of debates toward the \"status quo\". According to the 1999 Resolution: \"Taiwan is a sovereign and independent state and that its national title is the ROC.\" In other words, \"Taiwan is the ROC\".\n\nDuring the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) administration under Chen Shui-bian, he directed that all government publications and websites to use the form \"Republic of China (Taiwan).\" These two variations have been used under their respective administrations for the ROC/Taiwan petition to join the United Nations. Unlike the Cold War era when the KMT-controlled ROC competed with the PRC as the legitimate representative of China (including Taiwan), during Chen Shui-bian's presidency, the ROC did not seek to be the representative of China (i.e. it does not seek the PRC's seat on the Security Council or its ouster) and stresses in its petitions that it was only seeking to represent the people of the land under its effective control (i.e. UN's principle of universality).\n\nIn October 8, 2011, the eve of the centennial celebration of the founding of the Republic of China on October 10, the Democratic Progressive Party (DPP) Chairperson Tsai Ing-wen and the presidential candidate for the 2012 Taiwan presidential election explained her stance on the existence of the Republic of China on Taiwan as \"...the Republic of China has lost the land on which it was originally established. It only exists in Taiwan. It has merged into the land and people of Taiwan. Today, the majority of the people in Taiwan can agree that Taiwan is the Republic of China, and the Republic of China is Taiwan.\", \"Taiwan is a sovereign and independent country\", and \"...after we began directly electing our president, the current Republic of China government is no longer a foreign government. It is now the government of Taiwan.\"\n\nChen Yi-shen (陳儀深), an associate researcher at the at Academia Sinica, said \"many are aware that the ROC and Taiwan are two faces of the same coin\" and Tsai's ROC was an extension of the ROC from former presidents Lee Teng-hui and Chen Shui-bian. While some understood \"elections have their own languages\", many Taiwanese, including former DPP Chairman and former President of the Examination Yuan Yao Chia-wen, are absolutely against the ROC and insist \"we need to promote the rectification our nation's name to the Republic of Taiwan\".\n\nTsai won the 2016 Taiwan presidential election and sworn in as first female President of Taiwan on May 20.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56610535", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56610535", "title": "Gun laws in the Soviet Union", "text": "Gun laws in the Soviet Union\n\nDuring the Russian Civil War, the Soviet government allowed a variety of small arms and bladed weapons. Afterwards, the government made immediate alternations for those to whom it did not rely. The government had made it a point to \"arm the working people\" in the Declaration of the Rights of Working and Exploited People in January 1918. The December decree of the CPC of 1918, \"On the surrender of weapons\", ordered people to surrender any firearms, swords, bayonets and bombs, regardless of the degree of serviceability. The penalty for not doing so was ten years imprisonment. Members of the Communist Party were allowed to have a single weapon (a pistol or a rifle) and possession of the weapon was recorded in the party membership book. The assassination of Stalin's ally Sergei Kirov by Leonid Nikolaev in 1934 was possible because of this, as Nikolaev was allowed to have a revolver.\n\nOn December 12, 1924 the Central Executive Committee of the USSR promulgated its degree \"On the procedure of production, trade, storage, use, keeping and carrying firearms, firearm ammunition, explosive projectiles and explosives\", all weapons were classified and divided into categories. Now the weapons permitted for personal possession by ordinary citizens could only be smoothbore hunting shotguns. The other category of weapons were only possessed by those who were put on duty by the Soviet state; for all others, access to these weapons was restricted to within state regulated shooting ranges. Illegal gun possession was severely punished. Since March 1933 the manufacture, possession, purchase, sale of firearms (except for smoothbore) hunting weapons without proper authorization was punishable by up to five years in prison. In 1935, the same penalty was imposed for possession of knives. During the Great Patriotic War, the civilian population had to hand over all the personal hunting weapons to the Red Army for defence against the German invasion. The same was true for weapons left by retreating German invaders in the war. They were to be surrendered to Red Army troops, the NKVD or local Soviet authorities within 24 hours. Cases of stolen weapons were also brought to criminal justice.\n\nSince the death of Joseph Stalin in 1953 the USSR saw a small wave of liberalisations for civilian gun ownership. Soviet civilians were allowed to purchase smoothbore hunting shotguns again, even without mandatory submission of hunting licenses. However, this lasted for not more than six years. The buyer again had to pre-register in the Soviet Society of Hunters since 1959. With the introduction of the new Criminal Code in 1960, penalties were softened significantly for illegal possessions of firearms to only up to two years of imprisonment, while the possession of melee weapons were not prohibited anymore in the Soviet Union. \n\nFourteen years later the punishment for illegal purchase, keeping and carrying of weapons was increased again to five years' imprisonment. However, voluntarily surrendered unregistered rifles were met without responsibility or punishment.\n\n"}
{"id": "1597478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597478", "title": "Hew Raymond Griffiths", "text": "Hew Raymond Griffiths\n\nHew Raymond Griffiths (born 8 November 1962, UK) has been accused by the United States of being a ring leader of DrinkOrDie or DOD, an underground software infringement network, using the online identity of \"AssClown62\". Griffiths was living in Berkeley Vale in the Central Coast Region of NSW, Australia before he was placed on remand at Silverwater Correctional Centre. After fighting extradition for almost 3 years, Griffiths was finally extradited from Australia to the United States and on 20 February 2007, he appeared before Magistrate Judge Barry R. Portez of the U.S. District Court in Alexandria, Virginia. On 20 April, it was announced by the U.S. Department of Justice that Griffiths had entered a plea of guilty.\n\nHis case is of interest in that he is an Australian resident who has been indicted by a court in Virginia, United States for copyright infringement and conspiracy to infringe copyright under the US Code. Hew Raymond Griffiths, born in the United Kingdom, had never at any point physically left Australia since arriving in his adopted country at an early age. This is an unusual situation as the US extradition has not targeted a fugitive or a dangerous person who financially profited from his activities. However, the Australian courts and executive government have agreed to treat Griffiths' activities as having taken place in a US jurisdiction. The case therefore highlights the serious consequences for Australian Internet users who are charged with distributing US copyright-protected material.\n\nGriffiths' extradition was very controversial in Australia, where his actions were not criminal. The matter of USA v Griffiths has been cited as an example of how bilateral arrangements can lead to undesirable effects such as a loss of sovereignty and what some have described as draconian outcomes.\n\nOn 22 June 2007 Hew Griffiths was sentenced to 51 months in prison for conspiracy to commit copyright infringement. Taking into account the 3 years he spent in Australian and US prisons prior to sentencing, he served a further 15 months in the US. Griffiths' sentence attracted significant attention in Australia, and some attention in the United States and other countries which have recently signed, or are currently negotiating, bilateral Free Trade Agreements with the USA.\n\nGriffiths finally returned to Australia on 2 March 2008, after 5 weeks as an illegal alien in the US immigration detention system following his release from prison on 26 January 2008 (Australia Day). A condition of his repatriation to Australia was that he never again re-enter the United States, a country he had never visited before being extradited to it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7146282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7146282", "title": "Humanitarian use licenses", "text": "Humanitarian use licenses\n\nHumanitarian use licenses are provisions in a license whereby inventors and technology suppliers protect in advance the possibility of sharing their technology with people in need. Thus, humanitarian use licenses set the conditions for the provision of access to innovations for people in need at a royalty free basis or at lower costs. Humanitarian use licenses assure that products of research and development stay publicly available and that at the same time the incentive function of exclusive intellectual property rights are maintained.\n\nHumanitarian use licenses represent a tool to distribute the outcomes of Research & Development more equally. They relax the exclusive claims of intellectual property rights with more permissive licenses for developing countries. Intellectual property (IP) is an umbrella term for various legal entitlements which attach to certain types of information, ideas, or other intangibles in their expressed form. The term intellectual property reflects the idea that this subject matter is the product of the mind or the intellect, and that IP rights may be protected at law in the same way as any other form of property. Understanding the political reality of IP includes a realization that IP is originally a Western notion currently being introduced into other parts of the world. This is necessary to understand why IP law has severe difficulty in taking hold in non-western societies in general and in developing countries in particular. More understanding is required of the differences between economic sectors and the respective roles and functions of public versus private institutions in society. (Egelyng)\n\nThere are several functions related to IPR that make them work as a catalyst for the market. But there are also fundamental differences between the economic and social conditions of developed countries and developing countries. Hence, conventional licensing practices have caused distortions that make humanitarian use licenses a tool worth considering.\n\nThe holder of a legal Intellectual Property Right is generally entitled to exclude others from using his IP for a period of time. This gives the owner a comparative advantage over others for a limited time. Thus, innovative activity is rewarded, which stimulates R&D and improves the life of all.\n\nBut many developing countries are characterized by a weak Research & Development sector. Of the 400,000 inventions for which patent applications are submitted annually, developing countries take part in 1 percent whereas the USA, the USSR, the Federal Republic of Germany, and Japan participate in 73 percent. (Vestry Besarovic) This makes the industrial sector of developing countries largely dependent on imitation. Universally imposed minimum standards of patent protection, as the Agreement on Trade-Related Aspects of Intellectual Property Rights requires, are not likely to contribute to economic growth unless a particular level of development has been achieved (Thompson and Rushing). When developing countries have to purchase expensive technology because of a protective regime to comply with TRIPS, it can lead to the breakup of industries and thus reduce economic growth.\n\nThe existence of IPR protection over a collaborative research effort facilitates inter-firm Research & Development collaboration. Transaction costs are minimized as it is clear which intellectual property belongs to whom. So it is commonly assumed that patents stimulate the emergence of markets.\n\nBut whether transaction costs hinder development also depends on whether there is a sufficient resource commitment from industry. This factor influences the relative price of a patent and its relative utility. In economies that have to rely on imitation, clear IP laws are unlikely to stimulate innovation. Rather, they often discourage it. IP protection gains importance at higher stages of development when it serves to stimulate. Until this stage is reached, the relative benefits for facilitating transactions will not outweigh the relative costs of hindering technology application.\n\nPatent applications must disclose how the claimed invention functions. This disclosure allows persons skilled in the art to make use of the innovation. As new technologies are applied, further innovations can be built on existing ones.\n\nBut rates of secondary and university education are much lower in developing countries than they are in developed countries. Along with the lack of capital flows into Research & Development, this lowers the potential for adoption of new technology and the development of innovations. Thus, the information disclosed in a patent becomes useless, as the preconditions for taking advantage of the information do not exist in developing countries.\n\nThe effects of the globally imbalanced power relations are best illustrated by looking at sectors strongly concerned with IPR, medicine and agriculture. These sectors are also crucial for development as they serve the basic needs of people.\n\nHere, intellectual property practices can be harmful as they cover consumer products. For example, patent protection for drugs keeps the price high and inhibits competitors from introducing cheaper generic versions.\n\nIn agriculture, the patenting of genes or certain properties of crops can make the use of these crops costly and burdensome. Access to varieties that have long been used by farmers can be restricted, and as a result markets can be destroyed. An illustrative example for this is the case of the Enola bean, where a field bean variety showing a certain colour was patented. Subsequently, the licensor required all importers of Mexican beans to pay royalties, which would have caused a significant drop in export sales of beans from Mexico.\n\nBut IP protection may also hinder development in intermediate stages, as it covers not only final products, but also intermediate products, processes and tools to create those products. Thus, IP protections covering biotechnology can decrease the development of and access to new technologies in developing countries, thus preventing new crops or drugs from being developed.\n\nMoreover, drugs for tropical diseases and crops adapted to tropical conditions have been developed only to a limited extent. The purchasing power in these countries is low and thus there are no lucrative markets. Although only 10% of the global disease load occurs within industrialised countries, 90 percent of global drug R&D investment goes toward the drugs for industrialized countries. R&D projects that address diseases of developing countries such as malaria and tuberculosis receive comparatively little funding.\n\nOf course, HUL and improved management of IPR on its own do not solve the development problems of developing countries. But considering HUL when making contracts can help to decrease the shown inequalities of the world market. Especially for the example of the previous paragraph, the agricultural and medical sector, it can be illustrated what impact a humanitarian use exemption can have.\n\nTechnologies can be provided that stimulate the development of needed and to local conditions adapted products. Companies and research institutes in the specific countries are able to produce and develop at lower costs and know the local needs and problems best. This stimulates also future Research & Development as it creates learning by doing effects, thereby generating additional resources, ideas, and needs that fuel more innovation and technology creation. Technology can benefit the poor farmer or the sick people that are in need of drugs or food as well as the economy as a whole by stimulating Research & Development.\n\nHumanitarian Use Licenses have the potential to enhance the supply of important consumer products. When cheap or cost free licenses are granted to companies in developing countries, it would be possible for them to produce copies of drugs or seeds to provide the population with. Apart from missing royalty payments companies in developing countries will possibly be able to produce and distribute at a much lower price than companies in wealthier countries.\n\nDefining the population that should benefit and the institutions that can serve the needs of this population is required in the humanitarian use licensing scheme. Depending on the different technologies that should be assigned via the Humanitarian Use License, there are different approaches of how to formulate a Humanitarian Use License. Below there are some examples of strategies of how a Humanitarian Use License can be assigned.\n\nAssigning a non-exclusive license means to retain the freedom to assign licenses also to other parties. The terms under which additional licensing is provided can be fixed beforehand, thus securing the situation for the licensee. Defining humanitarian use could mean that the licensor is only permitted to assign additional licenses to countries in certain regions or that are i.e. classified as least developed countries.\n\nPublic Private Partnerships are projects that private sector companies and the government jointly fund and operate. Governmental involvement can be seen as giving an incentive for private companies to engage in R&D activities that they otherwise would not have carried out. Transferring technology to Public Private Partnerships for product development for neglected markets or neglected diseases is a way of facilitating the work of Public Private Partnerships, enabling them the development of adapted products.\n\nFor the development of adapted technologies a direct partnership between companies, universities or research institutions of developed and developing countries can be established. Partners in developing countries will have a greater interest to meet the needs of these countries.\n\nGovernments or foundations that fund research can require that the outcomes will be free for humanitarian licensing. The establishment of those clauses secures that later negotiations will be held with clear expectations.\n\nMeasuring the progress and the impact of a project can be done by the inclusion of performance milestones. An example of a humanitarian licensing mile stone is i.e. the condition that on or before the date of the first phase of a clinical trial for a new drug, the licensee will have identified a generic manufacturer in a middle-income country to produce the licensed technology at a reasonable price for developing countries. Subsequently, if this milestone is not met, other provisions and reservations in the agreement would be triggered, for example loss of exclusivity, sublicensing, exercise of march-in rights, and even termination of the agreement. (Brewster, Chapman, Hansen)\n\nAccess to a product can be assured when the licensor requires that products are sold at the markets in developing countries to a price, people can afford there. an appropriate price may be set by having i.e. the production costs plus a small profit of about 5-10%.\n\nStimulating the research of products that are adapted to the conditions in developing countries can be achieved when clauses that exclude particular categories of research from infringement are integrated into licensing agreements.\n\nBy including reach through clauses, new technologies, based on the licensed one, will be treated under the same licensing conditions that cover the original license. Thus, intermediate technologies, genes or processes can be maintained available for licensing for humanitarian licensing.\n\nA “non suit” agreement is an agreement that an IP holder will not assert these IP rights against one or more parties to the agreement. (Kaplan) The advantage for institutions or companies granting innovations is that they won't have to fear any liability by using these clauses. For example, companies may hesitate to grant i.e. genetic material to research institutions, as they might fear any claims that can be made based on international agreements like the Cartagena protocol, that force companies into the responsibility to care for the material they distribute. A way out of this situation is a non-assert clause that can be introduced in transfer agreements, stating that\n\nHUL do interfere with the exclusive claims that are connected with Intellectual Property Rights. That might cause companies to fear loss of revenues. However, this is not necessarily the case, as mostly non-commercial markets are served with HUL. People are provided with royalty free goods that otherwise would not have made the purchase in the first place.\n\nDonating technology and supporting Research & Development for developing countries will cause positive publicity for companies that do so, especially in the biotechnology and medical sectors. This can be reinforced if also governments take a role in this. Promoting positive publicity by giving prices or tax incentives are possible ways to reward companies that are engaged in underserved sectors.\n\nMany developing countries have a growing potential private market for technologies. The technology supplier may plan to develop these growing markets as part of a long-term market strategy, implying that the supplier expects these currently unprofitable markets to become profitable in the future. Thus, the supplier can create a loyal customer base in the future with a generous donation today (IP strategies 2001)\n\nHumanitarian use licences could be compulsorily assigned by the government or subject to voluntary implementation by the patent holder. However, developing standards in humanitarian licensing that encourages also private companies to technology transfers would rather stimulate the voluntarily engagement of the private sector in Research & Development in development. Thus, resources would be directed into more productive channels than compulsory licensing could do. Building trust of partners can be achieved by careful drafted clauses that an Intellectual Property Rights holder could choose to include in licensing agreements.\n\nAnytime a targeting mechanism fails to exclude unintended beneficiaries, leakage occurs and the cost of the donation to the supplier can increase. With regard to lost markets, the cost of such a failure depends on how many farmers included in the target would have purchased the technology from the market had they not been granted preferential access via HUTT (IP strategy 2001) Leakage of the technology to unintended beneficiaries is possible, even probable as the experience of food transfers has shown how difficult it can be to reach the intended beneficiaries. Precisely defining the intended beneficiaries and establishing the right mechanism to reach them to reduce leakage to a minimum is essential to successful HUL as thereby more goods reach people in need and the loss for the supplier will be minimal which ensures a stable partnership. A trade-off between the effort to administer the targeting scheme and the size of leakage is probable – the lower the risk of leakage should be, the higher will be the cost of implementation of these targeting schemes.\n\nOf particular concern are countries with a wide income disparity, where for example viable commercial markets may exist in the cities, while rural areas are underserved and require a humanitarian license and a significantly different price-point.\n\nSo far not many examples of humanitarian use licenses are available. There is a general formulated template of a HUL available at the PIPRA website and in articles such as Kaplan (2006). Some language can be found that could serve as template for more tailored clauses. The Central Advisory Service on Intellectual Property Rights (CAS-IP) of the Group of International Agricultural Research is currently preparing a website that will offer standard templates of HUL for various market segmentation strategies. In July 2011, the Natural Innovation .org produced a first draft of a Humanitarian License that it hopes will become an open source standard. The formulation of HUL templates is an important step into the direction of a broader application of HUL. Creating commonly recognized language for HUL would make it more easy for IP holders to grant their property to people in need as time consuming negotiations and formulations of contractual language and market segmentation approaches would cease to apply.\n\nWhether for intermediate or for final products – Humanitarian use licenses should be considered in every stage of development as IPR can restrict the access to materials, processes for product development or final products of Research & Development. Patents can be granted with respect to whole varieties, single genes or procedures that permit the isolation of genes. Humanitarian Use Licenses therefore do not only concern companies that bring products to the market and could via such licenses directly deliver people in need. It has to be considered also by Universities, National and International Agricultural Research Centres and Public Private Partnerships whose work represents the basis for further upstream research.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "98677", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=98677", "title": "International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights", "text": "International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights (ICCPR) is a multilateral treaty adopted by the United Nations General Assembly through GA. Resolution 2200A (XXI) on 16 December 1966, and in force from 23 March 1976 in accordance with Article 49 of the covenant. Article 49 allowed that the covenant will enter into force three months after the date of the deposit of the thirty-fifth instrument of ratification or accession. The covenant commits its parties to respect the civil and political rights of individuals, including the right to life, freedom of religion, freedom of speech, freedom of assembly, electoral rights and rights to due process and a fair trial. , the Covenant has 172 parties and six more signatories without ratification.\n\nThe ICCPR is part of the International Bill of Human Rights, along with the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights (ICESCR) and the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (UDHR).\n\nThe ICCPR is monitored by the United Nations Human Rights Committee (a separate body to the United Nations Human Rights Council), which reviews regular reports of States parties on how the rights are being implemented. States must report initially one year after acceding to the Covenant and then whenever the Committee requests (usually every four years). The Committee normally meets in Geneva and normally holds three sessions per year.\n\nThe ICCPR has its roots in the same process that led to the Universal Declaration of Human Rights. A \"Declaration on the Essential Rights of Man\" had been proposed at the 1945 San Francisco Conference which led to the founding of the United Nations, and the Economic and Social Council was given the task of drafting it. Early on in the process, the document was split into a declaration setting forth general principles of human rights, and a convention or covenant containing binding commitments. The former evolved into the UDHR and was adopted on 10 December 1948.\n\nThe States Parties to the present Covenant, including those having responsibility for the administration of Non-Self-Governing and Trust Territories, shall promote the realization of the right of self-determination, and shall respect that right, in conformity with the provisions of the Charter of the United Nations.\n\nDrafting continued on the convention, but there remained significant differences between UN members on the relative importance of negative Civil and Political versus positive Economic, Social and Cultural rights. These eventually caused the convention to be split into two separate covenants, \"one to contain civil and political rights and the other to contain economic, social and cultural rights.\" The two covenants were to contain as many similar provisions as possible, and be opened for signature simultaneously. Each would also contain an article on the right of all peoples to self-determination.\n\nThe first document became the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights and the second the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights. The drafts were presented to the UN General Assembly for discussion in 1954, and adopted in 1966. As a result of diplomatic negotiations the International Covenant on Economic, Social and Cultural Rights was adopted shortly before the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\nTogether, the UDHR and the two Covenants are considered to be the foundational human rights texts in the contemporary international system of human rights.\n\nThe Covenant follows the structure of the UDHR and ICESCR, with a preamble and fifty-three articles, divided into six parts.\n\nPart 1 (Article 1) recognizes the right of all peoples to self-determination, including the right to \"freely determine their political status\", pursue their economic, social and cultural goals, and manage and dispose of their own resources. It recognises a negative right of a people not to be deprived of its means of subsistence, and imposes an obligation on those parties still responsible for non-self governing and trust territories (colonies) to encourage and respect their self-determination.\n\nPart 2 (Articles 2 – 5) obliges parties to legislate where necessary to give effect to the rights recognised in the Covenant, and to provide an effective legal remedy for any violation of those rights. It also requires the rights be recognised \"without distinction of any kind, such as race, colour, sex, language, religion, political or other opinion, national or social origin, property, birth or other status,\" and to ensure that they are enjoyed equally by women. The rights can only be limited \"in time of public emergency which threatens the life of the nation,\" and even then no derogation is permitted from the rights to life, freedom from torture and slavery, the freedom from retrospective law, the right to personhood, and freedom of thought, conscience and religion.\n\nPart 3 (Articles 6 – 27) lists the rights themselves. These include rights to:\n\n\nMany of these rights include specific actions which must be undertaken to realise them.\n\nPart 4 (Articles 28 – 45) governs the establishment and operation of the Human Rights Committee and the reporting and monitoring of the Covenant. It also allows parties to recognise the competence of the Committee to resolve disputes between parties on the implementation of the Covenant (Articles 41 and 42).\n\nPart 5 (Articles 46 – 47) clarifies that the Covenant shall not be interpreted as interfering with the operation of the United Nations or \"the inherent right of all peoples to enjoy and utilize fully and freely their natural wealth and resources\".\n\nPart 6 (Articles 48 – 53) governs ratification, entry into force, and amendment of the Covenant.\n\nArticle 6 of the Covenant recognises the individual's \"inherent right to life\" and requires it to be protected by law. It is a \"supreme right\" from which no derogation can be permitted, and must be interpreted widely. It therefore requires parties to take positive measures to reduce infant mortality and increase life expectancy, as well as forbidding arbitrary killings by security forces.\n\nWhile Article 6 does not prohibit the death penalty, it restricts its application to the \"most serious crimes\" and forbids it to be used on children and pregnant women or in a manner contrary to the Convention on the Prevention and Punishment of the Crime of Genocide. The UN Human Rights Committee interprets the Article as \"strongly suggest[ing] that abolition is desirable\", and regards any progress towards abolition of the death penalty as advancing this right. The Second Optional Protocol commits its signatories to the abolition of the death penalty within their borders.\n\nArticle 7 prohibits torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading punishment. As with Article 6, it cannot be derogated from under any circumstances. The article is now interpreted to impose similar obligations to those required by the United Nations Convention Against Torture, including not just prohibition of torture, but active measures to prevent its use and a prohibition on refoulement. In response to Nazi human experimentation during WW2 this article explicitly includes a prohibition on medical and scientific experimentation without consent.\n\nArticle 8 prohibits slavery and enforced servitude in all situations. The article also prohibits forced labour, with exceptions for criminal punishment, military service and civil obligations.\n\nArticle 9 recognises the rights to liberty and security of the person. It prohibits arbitrary arrest and detention, requires any deprivation of liberty to be according to law, and obliges parties to allow those deprived of their liberty to challenge their imprisonment through the courts. These provisions apply not just to those imprisoned as part of the criminal process, but also to those detained due to mental illness, drug addiction, or for educational or immigration purposes.\n\nArticles 9.3 and 9.4 impose procedural safeguards around arrest, requiring anyone arrested to be promptly informed of the charges against them, and to be brought promptly before a judge. It also restricts the use of pre-trial detention, requiring that it not be 'the general rule'.\n\nArticle 10 requires anyone deprived of liberty to be treated with dignity and humanity. This applies not just to prisoners, but also to those detained for immigration purposes or psychiatric care. The right complements the Article 7 prohibition on torture and cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment. The article also imposes specific obligations around criminal justice, requiring prisoners in pretrial detention to be separated from convicted prisoners, and children to be separated from adults. It requires prisons to be focused on reform and rehabilitation rather than punishment.\n\nArticle 11 prohibits the use of imprisonment as a punishment for breach of contract.\n\nArticle 14 recognizes and protects a right to justice and a fair trial. Article 14.1 establishes the ground rules: everyone must be equal before the courts, and any hearing must take place in open court before a competent, independent and impartial tribunal, with any judgment or ruling made public. Closed hearings are only permitted for reasons of privacy, justice, or national security, and judgments may only be suppressed in divorce cases or to protect the interests of children. These obligations apply to both criminal and civil hearings, and to all courts and tribunals.\n\nThe rest of the article imposes specific and detailed obligations around the process of criminal trials in order to protect the rights of the accused and the right to a fair trial. It establishes the Presumption of innocence and forbids double jeopardy. It requires that those convicted of a crime be allowed to appeal to a higher tribunal, and requires victims of a Miscarriage of justice to be compensated. It establishes rights to a speedy trial, to counsel, against self-incrimination, and for the accused to be present and call and examine witnesses.\n\nArticle 15 prohibits prosecutions under Ex post facto law and the imposition of retrospective criminal penalties, and requires the imposition of the lesser penalty where criminal sentences have changed between the offence and conviction. But except the criminal according to general principles of law recognized by international community. (jus cogens)\n\nArticle 16 requires states to recognize everyone as a person before the law.\n\nArticle 12 guarantees freedom of movement, including the right of persons to choose their residence, to leave and return to a country. These rights apply to legal aliens as well as citizens of a state, and can be restricted only where necessary to protect national security, public order or health, and the rights and freedoms of others. The article also recognises a right of people to enter their own country; the Right of return. The Human Rights Committee interprets this right broadly as applying not just to citizens, but also to those stripped of or denied their nationality. They also regard it as near-absolute; \"there are few, if any, circumstances in which deprivation of the right to enter one's own country could be reasonable\".\n\nArticle 13 forbids the arbitrary expulsion of resident aliens and requires such decisions to be able to be appealed and reviewed.\n\nArticle 17 mandates the right of privacy. This provision, specifically article 17(1), protects private adult consensual sexual activity, thereby nullifying prohibitions on homosexual behaviour, however, the wording of this covenant's marriage right (Article 23) excludes the extrapolation of a same-sex marriage right from this provision.\nArticle 17 also protects people against unlawful attacks to their honor and reputation. Article 17 (2) grants the protection of the Law against such attacks\n\nArticle 18 mandates freedom of religion or belief.\n\nArticle 19 mandates freedom of expression.\n\nArticle 20 mandates sanctions against inciting hatred.\n\nArticles 21 and 22 mandate freedom of association. These provisions guarantee the right to freedom of association, the right to trade unions and also defines the International Labour Organization.\n\nArticle 23 mandates the right of marriage. The wording of this provision neither requires nor prohibits same-sex marriage.\n\nArticle 24 mandates special protection, the right to a name, and the right to a nationality for every child.\n\nArticle 27 mandates the rights of ethnic, religious and linguistic minority to enjoy their own culture, to profess their own religion, and to use their own language.\n\nArticle 3 provides an accessory non-discrimination principle. Accessory in the way that it cannot be used independently and can only be relied upon in relation to another right protected by the ICCPR.\n\nIn contrast, Article 26 contains a revolutionary norm by providing an autonomous equality principle which is not dependent upon another right under the convention being infringed. This has the effect of widening the scope of the non-discrimination principle beyond the scope of ICCPR.\n\nThere are two Optional Protocols to the Covenant. The First Optional Protocol establishes an individual complaints mechanism, allowing individuals to complain to the Human Rights Committee about violations of the Covenant. This has led to the creation of a complex jurisprudence on the interpretation and implementation of the Covenant. , the First Optional Protocol has 116 parties.\n\nThe Second Optional Protocol abolishes the death penalty; however, countries were permitted to make a reservation allowing for use of death penalty for the most serious crimes of a military nature, committed during wartime. , the Second Optional Protocol had 85 parties.\n\nA number of parties have made reservations and interpretative declarations to their application of the Covenant.\n\nArgentina will apply the fair trial rights guaranteed in its constitution to the prosecution of those accused of violating the general law of nations.\n\nAustralia reserves the right to progressively implement the prison standards of Article 10, to compensate for miscarriages of justice by administrative means rather than through the courts, and interprets the prohibition on racial incitement as being subject to the freedoms of expression, association and assembly. It also declares that its implementation will be effected at each level of its federal system.\n\nAustria reserves the right to continue to exile members of the House of Habsburg, and limits the rights of the accused and the right to a fair trial to those already existing in its legal system.\n\nBahamas, due to problems with implementation, reserves the right not to compensate for miscarriages of justice.\n\nBahrain interprets Articles 3 (no sexual discrimination), 18 (freedom of religion) and 23 (family rights) within the context of Islamic Sharia law.\n\nBangladesh reserves the right to try people \"in absentia\" where they are fugitives from justice and declares that resource constraints mean that it cannot necessarily segregate prisons or provide counsel for accused persons.\n\nBarbados reserves the right not to provide free counsel for accused persons due to resource constraints.\n\nBelgium interprets the freedoms of speech, assembly and association in a manner consistent with the European Convention on Human Rights. It does not consider itself obliged to ban war propaganda as required by Article 20, and interprets that article in light of the freedom of expression in the UDHR.\n\nBelize reserves the right not to compensate for miscarriages of justice, due to problems with implementation, and does not plan to provide free legal counsel for the same reasons as above. It also refuses to ensure the right to free travel at any time, due to a law requiring those travelling abroad to provide tax clearance certificates.\n\nCongo, as per the Congolese Code of Civil, Commercial, Administrative and Financial Procedure, in matters of private law, decisions or orders emanating from conciliation proceedings may be enforced through imprisonment for debt.\n\nDenmark reserves the right to exclude the press and the public from trials as per its own laws. Reservation is further made to Article 20, paragraph 1. This reservation is in accordance with the vote cast by Denmark in the XVI General Assembly of the United Nations in 1961 when the Danish Delegation, referring to the preceding article concerning freedom of expression, voted against the prohibition against propaganda for war.\n\nThe Gambia, as per its constitution, will provide free legal assistance for accused persons charged with capital offences only.\n\nPakistan, has made several reservations to the articles in the Convention; \"the provisions of Articles 3, 6, 7, 18 and 19 shall be so applied to the extent that they are not repugnant to the Provisions of the Constitution of Pakistan and the Sharia laws\", \"the provisions of Article 12 shall be so applied as to be in conformity with the Provisions of the Constitution of Pakistan\", \"With respect to Article 13, the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan reserves its right to apply its law relating to foreigners\", \"the provisions of Article 25 shall be so applied to the extent that they are not repugnant to the Provisions of the Constitution of Pakistan\" and the Government of the Islamic Republic of Pakistan \"does not recognize the competence of the Committee provided for in Article 40 of the Covenant\".\n\nThe United States has made reservations that none of the articles should restrict the right of free speech and association; that the US government may impose capital punishment on any person other than a pregnant woman, including persons below the age of 18; that \"cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment\" refers to those treatments or punishments prohibited by one or more of the fifth, eighth, and fourteenth amendments to the US Constitution; that Paragraph 1, Article 15 will not apply; and that, notwithstanding paragraphs 2(b) and 3 of Article 10 and paragraph 4 of Article 14, the US government may treat juveniles as adults, and accept volunteers to the military prior to the age of 18. The United States also submitted five \"understandings\", and four \"declarations\".\n\nThe International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights has 167 states parties, 67 by signature and ratification, and the remainder by accession or succession. Another five states have signed but have yet to ratify the treaty.\n\nThe Covenant is not directly enforceable in Australia, but its provisions support a number of domestic laws, which confer enforceable rights on individuals. For example, Article 17 of the Convention has been implemented by the Australian Privacy Act 1988. Likewise, the Covenant's equality and anti-discrimination provisions support the federal Disability Discrimination Act 1992. Finally, the Covenant is one of the major sources of 'human rights' listed in the Human Rights (Parliamentary Scrutiny) Act 2011. This law requires most new legislation and administrative instruments (such as delegated/subordinate legislation) to be tabled in parliament with a statement outlining the proposed law's compatibility with the listed human rights A Joint Committee on Human Rights scrutinises all new legislation and statements of compatibility. The findings of the Joint Committee are not legally binding.\n\nLegislation also establishes the Australian Human Rights Commission which allows the Australian Human Rights Commission (AHRC) to examine enacted legislation (to suggest remedial enactments), its administration (to suggest avoidance of practices) and general compliance with the covenant which is scheduled to the AHRC legislation.\n\nIn Victoria and the Australian Capital Territory, the Convention can be used by a plaintiff or defendant who invokes those jurisdiction's human rights charters. While the Convention cannot be used to overturn a Victorian or ACT law, a Court can issue a 'declaration of incompatibility' that requires the relevant Attorney-General to respond in Parliament within a set time period. Courts in Victoria and the ACT are also directed by the legislation to interpret the law in a way to give effect to a human right, and new legislation and subordinate legislation must be accompanied by a statement of compatibility. Efforts to implement a similar Charter at the national level have been frustrated and Australia's Constitution may prevent conferring the 'declaration' power on federal judges.\n\nIreland's use of Special Criminal Courts where juries are replaced by judges and other special procedures apply has been found to not violate the treaty: \"In the Committee's view, trial before courts other than the ordinary courts is not necessarily, per se, a violation of the entitlement to a fair hearing and the facts of the present case do not show that there has been such a violation.\"\n\nNew Zealand took measures to give effect to many of the rights contained within it by passing the New Zealand Bill of Rights Act in 1990, and formally incorporated the status of protected person into law through the passing of the Immigration Act 2009.\n\nThe United States Senate ratified the ICCPR in 1992, with five reservations, five understandings, and four declarations. Some have noted that with so many reservations, its implementation has little domestic effect. Included in the Senate's ratification was the declaration that \"the provisions of Article 1 through 27 of the Covenant are not self-executing\", and in a Senate Executive Report stated that the declaration was meant to \"clarify that the Covenant will not create a private cause of action in U.S. Courts.\" However, \"expressed declarations\" do not affect treaties [Igartua-De Le Rosa v. US, 417 F.3d 145, 190-191 (1st Cir. 2005)] Fleming v US (15-8425) establishes the ICCPR treaty IS SELF-Executing by legal definition of a self-executing treaty, US reports to UN, DOJ and US Ambassador Hamamoto.\n\nWhere a treaty or covenant is not self-executing, and where Congress has not acted to implement the agreement with legislation, no private right of action within the US judicial system is created by ratification. However, the US Federal Government has held that the ICCPR treaty was only ratified \"after\" it was determined that all the necessary legislation was in place to provide for domestic effect of law, thereby making the ICCPR treaty self-executing by definition. See all four reports by US to UN regarding the ICCPR treaty. It is also important to emphasize that the \"self-executing\" statement was a declaration and the Courts have held that declarations have no effect upon treaty law and the rights of citizens.\n\nAs a reservation that is \"incompatible with the object and purpose\" of a treaty is void as a matter of the Vienna Convention on the Law of Treaties and international law, there is some issue as to whether the non-self-execution declaration is even legal under domestic law.\n\nProminent critics in the human rights community, such as Prof. Louis Henkin (non-self-execution declaration incompatible with the Supremacy Clause) and Prof. Jordan Paust (\"Rarely has a treaty been so abused\") have denounced the United States' ratification subject to the non-self-execution declaration as a blatant fraud upon the international community, especially in light of its subsequent failure to conform domestic law to the minimum human rights standards as established in the Covenant and in the Universal Declaration of Human Rights over the last thirty years.\n\nIt has been argued that Article 20(2) of the ICCPR, as well as Article 4 of the ICERD, may be unconstitutional according to Supreme Court precedent, which is the reason behind the Senate reservations.\n\nIn 1994, the United Nations' Human Rights Committee expressed concerns with compliance:\n\nOf particular concern are widely formulated reservations which essentially render ineffective all Covenant rights which would require any change in national law to ensure compliance with Covenant obligations. No real international rights or obligations have thus been accepted. And when there is an absence of provisions to ensure that Covenant rights may be sued on in domestic courts, and, further, a failure to allow individual complaints to be brought to the Committee under the first Optional Protocol, all the essential elements of the Covenant guarantees have been removed.\n\nIndeed, the United States has not accepted a single international obligation required under the Covenant. It has not changed its domestic law to conform with the strictures of the Covenant. Its citizens are not permitted to sue to enforce their basic human rights under the Covenant. It has not ratified the Optional Protocol to the Convention against Torture (OPCAT). As such, the Covenant has been rendered ineffective, with the bone of contention being United States officials' insistence upon preserving a vast web of sovereign, judicial, prosecutorial, and executive branch immunities that often deprives its citizens of the \"effective remedy\" under law the Covenant is intended to guarantee.\n\nIn 2006, the Human Rights Committee expressed concern over what it interprets as material non-compliance, exhorting the United States to take immediate corrective action:\n\n, the United States is among States scheduled for examination in the 107th (11–28 March 2013) and 109th (14 October1 November 2013) sessions of the Committee.\n\nThere are a total of 172 parties to the International Covenant on Civil and Political Rights.\n\nMost states in the world are parties to the ICCPR. The following 25 states have not become party to it, but six states have signed the Covenant but not ratified it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56260561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56260561", "title": "John Gartner (psychologist)", "text": "John Gartner (psychologist)\n\nJohn D. Gartner is a psychologist and therapist in the U.S.\n\nHe graduated magna cum laude from Princeton University in New Jersey and received his Ph.D. in clinical psychology from the University of Massachusetts and completed his post-doctoral training at New York Hospital - Cornell Medical School.\nGartner is a therapist with a private practice in Baltimore and Manhattan, where he specialized in the treatment of borderline personality disorder, bipolar disorder and depression.\n\nGartner collected in the first months of 2017 more than 25.000 signatures of mental health professionals on a petition, directed to the national opposition leader, Democratic Senator Chuck Schumer.\nAt the end of April 2017 he was able to forward the petition with more than 41.000 signatures of mental healthcare professionals to Washington D.C..\nCore of the petition: \"My professional judgement is that Donald Trump manifests a serious mental illness that renders him psychologically incapable of competently discharging the duties of President of the United States.\"\n\"And I respectfully request him be removed from office, according to article 3 of the 25th Amendment, and so on\".\n\nAccording to Gartner, President Trump's mental handicaps are a mix of 1.narcissism, 2. paranoia; 3.sociopathy; and 4. a dash of sadism.\n\nJohn Gartner is the president of Duty To Warn, an organisation of professionals from several branches where professionals have duty to warn patients, clients and the community if they are aware of a potential danger.\n\nHe is author of books including:\n\n"}
{"id": "11701849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11701849", "title": "List of law schools in South Africa", "text": "List of law schools in South Africa\n\nThis is a list of law schools in South Africa.\n\nThe following moot court competitions are either held in South Africa or organised by a South Africa institution:\n\n"}
{"id": "796492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=796492", "title": "Material witness", "text": "Material witness\n\nA material witness (in American law) is a person with information alleged to be material concerning a criminal proceeding. The authority to detain material witnesses dates to the First Judiciary Act of 1789, but the Bail Reform Act of 1984 most recently amended the text of the statute, and it is now codified at . The most recent version allows material witnesses to be held to ensure the giving of their testimony in criminal proceedings or to a grand jury.\n\nSince September 11, 2001, the U.S. has used the material witness statute to detain suspects without charge for indefinite periods of time, often under the rubric of securing grand-jury testimony. This use of the statute is controversial and is currently under judicial review. In \"Ashcroft v. al-Kidd\" (2011), the detainee was never charged or called as a witness, and sued then-U.S. Attorney General John Ashcroft. The U.S. Supreme Court overturned a ruling by the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals and held that Ashcroft qualified for immunity because of his official position.\n\n, commonly referred to as the \"material witness statute,\" provides as follows:\n\nIf it appears from an affidavit filed by a party that the testimony of a person is material in a criminal proceeding, and if it is shown that it may become impracticable to secure the presence of the person by subpoena, a judicial officer may order the arrest of the person and treat the person in accordance with the provisions of section of this title. No material witness may be detained because of inability to comply with any condition of release if the testimony of such witness can adequately be secured by deposition, and if further detention is not necessary to prevent a failure of justice. Release of a material witness may be delayed for a reasonable period of time until the deposition of the witness can be taken pursuant to the Federal Rules of Criminal Procedure.\n\nA \"material witness\" is an individual who contains information \"material\" to a criminal proceeding. With the authority of , the United States government can seek a warrant from a judicial officer in order to arrest a material witness. To do so, a United States official must file an affidavit with the judicial officer alleging that (1) the individual has material information to the criminal proceeding \"and\" (2) it would be \"impracticable to secure the presence of the person by subpoena.\"\n\nAlthough there has been much legal debate about the scope of the material witness statute, it has been clear since the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruling in \"Bacon v. United States\", 449 F.2d 933 (9th Cir. 1971), that the phrase \"a criminal proceeding\" from the material witness statute includes both trials (uncontroversially) and grand jury investigations. Thus, the ability to arrest material witnesses under the statute extends to the ability to arrest those with information material to a grand jury investigation (assuming the showing of impracticability is also made). The Supreme Court has not had a chance to rule on this statutory issue.\n\nAfter the attacks of September 11, 2001, the United States government announced a campaign of aggressive detention, by whatever means possible, of those potentially involved in attacks on the United States. The means included using the material witness statute to detain even suspects (as opposed to witnesses). Many of those detained as material witnesses were detained as witnesses to grand jury proceedings, which only investigate and are not criminal trials.\n\nThis caused controversy for several reasons. Primarily, critics believed that the government's use of the material witness statute to detain suspects was an evasion of the Fourth Amendment to the US Constitution, which provides some protections to criminal suspects that were apparently ignored in the arrests of the material witness detainees post-September 11. Secondarily, legal critics took issue with the application of the material witness statute to grand jury proceedings.\n\nStatistics on federal material witness warrant hearings showed a steady decline from 2000 to 2002, from 3603 material witness hearings in FY2000, to 3344 in FY2001 and 2961 in FY2002. During and after that period, the overwhelming majority of material witness warrant hearings took place in judicial districts bordering Mexico and involved illegal alien traffic.\n\nIn 2005, with the intent of alleviating concerns over such use of the material witness statute, Democratic Party Senator Patrick Leahy proposed A Bill to Amend the Material Witness Statute to Strengthen Procedural Safeguards, and for Other Purposes, § 1.\nThe legislation failed to move forwards, however, after being sent to the Senate Judiciary Committee. \nA 2006 ruling found that material witness law could only be used when an individual is genuinely sought as a witness and there was a flight risk; it is not to be used as a preventive action.\n\nIn 2009 the Ninth Circuit of Appeals in San Francisco, California. found in \"Ashcroft v. al-Kidd\" that former Attorney General John Ashcroft could be sued personally for wrongful detention by Abdullah al-Kidd, an American citizen who was arrested in 2003 and held for 16 days in maximum security prisons to be used as a material witness in the trial of Sami Omar Al-Hussayen. Al-Kidd was never charged or called as a witness. (Al-Hussayen was acquitted in 2004 of all charges of supporting terrorism.)\n\nThe circuit court's decision was unanimously reversed in \"Ashcroft v. al-Kidd\" (2011) by the United States Supreme Court on May 31, 2011, affirming the immunity of government officials operating in their official positions.\n\n"}
{"id": "6479044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6479044", "title": "Mesne assignment", "text": "Mesne assignment\n\nIn property law, a mesne assignment is an intermediate assignment in a series of assignments which occurs prior to the final assignment.\n"}
{"id": "50060824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50060824", "title": "MetLife Inc. v. Financial Stability Oversight Council", "text": "MetLife Inc. v. Financial Stability Oversight Council\n\nMetLife Inc. v. Financial Stability Oversight Council is a 2016 case that challenged the systemically important financial institution rules in Dodd-Frank. U.S. District Judge Rosemary Collyer ruled that MetLife could shed its Sifi designation, after concluding FSOC's designation was \"arbitrary and capricious\". FSOC subsequently launched an appeal but decided to drop the case in January 2018. \n"}
{"id": "57897289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57897289", "title": "Ministry of Defence, Justice and Security (Botswana)", "text": "Ministry of Defence, Justice and Security (Botswana)\n\nThe Ministry of Defence, Justice and Security of Botswana aims to provide safety, protection and promote human rights and rule of law via the implementation of pertinent policies and programming in order to achieve peace and tranquility. The ministry oversees the following departments:\n\n\n\n<nowiki>*</nowiki>She is identified as the Acting Minister of Defence, Justice and Security in various sources. \n\n"}
{"id": "57906438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57906438", "title": "Ministry of Justice (East Timor)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (East Timor)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice of East Timor has responsibilities such as overseeing the recruitment of judges, prosecutors, and public defenders in East Timor. In 2011, the ministry established a protocol with the East Timor Bar Association in order to ensure the proper training of lawyers. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "56696686", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56696686", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Jordan)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Jordan)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice () is the Jordan government agency responsible for Justice of Jordan.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57923745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57923745", "title": "Ministry of Justice (Mozambique)", "text": "Ministry of Justice (Mozambique)\n\nThe Ministry of Justice, Constitutional and Religious Affairs of Mozambique has responsibilities such as administering the civil court system and overseeing the prison system. At one time, the ministry published jurisprudence from the main courts, but has since discontinued this practice.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37306006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37306006", "title": "Mmusi and Others v Ramantele and Another", "text": "Mmusi and Others v Ramantele and Another\n\nMmusi and Others v Ramantele and Another is a 2012 case of the High Court of Botswana in which three sisters disputed their nephew's right to inherit the family home under customary inheritance laws that favoured male descendants. The court ruled that these laws were unconstitutional, asserting for the first time the right of Batswana women to inherit property. \n\nIn 2012, Botswana's gender gap was below the global average. Considered an \"example to the region\", the country had been home to several of southern Africa's most powerful women, including a parliamentary speaker, an attorney general, and a judge, Unity Dow. However, it is also governed by a dual legal system consisting of the government's civil courts and traditional customary courts, the latter found primarily in rural areas. The customary courts had traditionally upheld the principle of \"assumed male inheritance\". \n\nThe customary law in question, that of the Ngwaketse tribe, dictated that the family home of a deceased individual was to be reserved to the last born male child. The rest of the property was to be divided among the children, regardless of gender.\n\nIn 2007, Edith Mmusi and her sisters, all of whom were over 65, brought a case against their nephew Molefi Ramantele, who had inherited the family home near Kanye. At some point prior to the distribution of their father's inheritance, their youngest brother, expecting to inherit the family home in accordance with local customs, entered into an agreement with his half-brother, the father of Molefi Ramantele, to give him the home. Both brothers died shortly after their father's death and before the distribution of the inheritance. Ramantele subsequently claimed ownership over the family home, arguing that his father was promised the family home under an agreement and that home would now pass onto him, and attempted to evict Mmusi and her sisters, who had occupied the home until this point. The sisters contested the eviction, arguing that they had paid for the home's upkeep costs as well as expanding it.\n\nThe 2007 case was heard in customary court, which found in Ramantele's favour. After an appeal failed, the sisters took the case to Botswana's civil courts. The suit eventually reached the High Court, where it was heard by a progressive judge, Key Dingake. The sisters were opposed by Attorney General Athalia Molokomme. Representing the government of Botswana, Molokomme argued that though the inheritance law was discriminatory, the \"public mood\" did not yet support its repeal. The sisters were supported in the case by the Southern Africa Litigation Centre (SALC).\n\nOn 12 October 2012, Dingake ruled that the local customary laws prioritising male inheritance were not in keeping with the promise of gender equality in the Constitution of Botswana, and awarded the home to the sisters. In his judgement, Dingake stated, \"It seems to me that the time has now arisen for the justices of this court to assume the role of the judicial midwife and assist in the birth of a new world struggling to be born. Discrimination against gender has no place in our modern day society.\"\n\nEdith Mmusi hailed the case as \"a great day for us,\" while Ramantele called it \"a sad day,\" stating that \"people should learn to respect our culture.\" Regional human rights campaigners expressed hope that the case would not only be a landmark in Botswana, but also set a precedent for surrounding countries grappling with similar issues. The Open Society Initiative for Southern Africa described it as \"a huge boost to the struggle for gender equality,\" while SALC's deputy director said that the ruling \"sends a very strong signal that women in Botswana cannot be discriminated against and that the days of women suffering from secondary status under the law in Botswana are drawing to an end.\"\n\nOn 16 November 2012, Ramantele indicated that he will appeal the High Court judgment.\n\nOn 03 September 2013, the Court of Appeal upheld the decision of the high court, stating that “Constitutional values of equality before the law, and the increased leveling of the power structures with more and more women heading households and participating with men as equals in the public sphere and increasingly in the private sphere, demonstrate that there is no rational and justifiable basis for sticking to the narrow norms of days gone by when such norms go against current value systems.” \n\n\n"}
{"id": "8580742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8580742", "title": "Municipal Act, 2001 (Ontario)", "text": "Municipal Act, 2001 (Ontario)\n\nThe Municipal Act, 2001 is the main statute governing the creation, administration and government of municipalities in the Canadian province of Ontario, other than the City of Toronto. After being passed in 2001, it came into force on 1 January 2003, replacing the previous \"Municipal Act\".\n\nThere are complex rules as to which municipalities have authority to act on any given subject, which are summarized as follows in Section 11:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43588974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43588974", "title": "NFPA 1006", "text": "NFPA 1006\n\nNFPA 1006 (\"Standard on Operations and Training for Technical Search and Rescue Incidents\") is a standard published by the National Fire Protection Association.\n\nAs per NFPA, this standard identifies the minimum job performance requirements (JPRs) for fire service and other emergency response personnel who perform technical rescue operations.\n"}
{"id": "773546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=773546", "title": "No taxation without representation", "text": "No taxation without representation\n\n\"No taxation without representation\" is a slogan originating during the 1700s that summarized a primary grievance of the American colonists in the Thirteen Colonies, which was one of the major causes of the American Revolution. In short, many in those colonies believed that, as they were not directly represented in the distant British Parliament, any laws it passed affecting the colonists (such as the Sugar Act and the Stamp Act) were illegal under the Bill of Rights 1689, and were a denial of their rights as Englishmen.\n\nJonathan Mayhew, Old West Church's second Congregational pastor, used the phrase, \"no taxation without representation\" in a sermon in 1750. The phrase revives a sentiment central to the cause of the English Civil War following the refusal of parliamentarian John Hampden to pay ship money tax. \"No taxation without representation,\" in the context of British American Colonial taxation, appeared for the first time in the February 1768 \"London Magazine\" headline, on page 89, in the printing of Lord Camden’s \"Speech on the Declaratory Bill of the Sovereignty of Great Britain over the Colonies.\"\n\nThe English Parliament had controlled colonial trade and taxed imports and exports since 1660. By the 1760s, the Americans were being deprived of a historic right. The English Bill of Rights 1689 had forbidden the imposition of taxes without the consent of Parliament. Since the colonists had no representation in Parliament, the taxes violated the guaranteed Rights of Englishmen. Parliament initially contended that the colonists had virtual representation, but the idea \"found little support on either side of the Atlantic\". John Dunmore Lang wrote in 1852, \"The person who first suggested the idea [of Parliamentary representation for the colonies] appears to have been Oldmixon, an American annalist of the era of Queen Anne or George I. It was afterwards put forward with approbation by the celebrated Dr. Adam Smith, and advocated for a time, but afterwards rejected and strongly opposed, by Dr. Benjamin Franklin.\"\n\nThe eloquent 1768 Petition, Memorial, and Remonstrance objecting to taxation, written by the Virginia House of Burgesses and endorsed by every other Colony, was sent to the British Government, which seems to have ignored it.\n\nThe phrase had been used for more than a generation in Ireland. By 1765, the term was in use in Boston, and local politician James Otis was most famously associated with the phrase, \"taxation without representation is tyranny.\" In the course of the Revolutionary era (1750–1783), many arguments were pursued that sought to resolve the dispute surrounding Parliamentary sovereignty, taxation, self-governance and representation.\n\nIn the course of the 1760s and 1770s, William Pitt the Elder, Sir William Pulteney, and George Grenville, amongst other prominent Britons and colonial Americans, such as Joseph Galloway, James Otis Jr., Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, the London Quaker Thomas Crowley, Royal Governors such as Thomas Pownall M.P., William Franklin, Sir Francis Bernard, and the Attorney-General of Quebec, Francis Maseres, debated and circulated plans for the creation of colonial seats in London, imperial union with Great Britain, or a federally representative British Parliament with powers of taxation that was to consist of American, West Indian, Irish and British Members of Parliament. Despite the fact that these ideas were considered and discussed seriously on both sides of the Atlantic, it appears that neither the American Congress, nor the colonial Assemblies, nor the British Government in Westminster, at least prior to the Carlisle Peace Commission of 1778, officially proposed such constitutional developments. It must be noted, however, that Governor Thomas Hutchinson apparently referred to a colonial representational proposal when he wrote that, The Assembly of Massachusetts Bay...was the first which ever took exception to the right of Parliament to impose Duties or Taxes on the Colonies, whilst they had no representatives in the House of Commons. This they did in a letter to their Agent in the summer of 1764...And in this letter they recommend to him a pamphlet, wrote by one of their members, in which there are proposals for admitting representatives from the Colonies to fit in the House of Commons...an American representation is thrown out as an expedient which might obviate the objections to Taxes upon the Colonies, yet...it was renounced...by the Assembly of the Colony which first proposed it, as utterly impracticable.\n\nJared Ingersoll Snr., colonial agent for Connecticut, wrote to his American colleague, the Royal Governor of Connecticut Thomas Fitch, that following Isaac Barre's famous Parliamentary speech against the Stamp Act in 1764, Richard Jackson, M.P., supported Barre and other pro-American M.P.s by producing before the House copies of earlier Acts of Parliament that had admitted Durham and Chester seats upon their petitions for representation. The argument was put forward in Parliament that America ought to have representatives on these grounds too. Richard Jackson supposed that Parliament had a right to tax America, but he much doubted the expediency of the Stamp act. He said if it was necessary, as ministers claimed, to tax the colonies, the latter should be permitted to elect some part of the Parliament, \"otherwise the liberties of America, I do not say will be lost, but will be in danger.\"\n\nWilliam Knox, an aide of George Grenville, pamphleteer and subsequent Irish Under-Secretary of State for the Colonies, received an appointment in 1756 to the American provinces, and after his return to London in 1761, he recommended the creation of a colonial aristocracy and colonial representation in the British Parliament. He was shortly afterwards appointed agent for Georgia and East Florida, a post which he forfeited by writing in favour of the Stamp Act. In his Grenville-backed pamphlet of 1769, \"The Controversy between Great Britain and her Colonies Reviewed\", Knox suggested that colonial representatives might have been offered seats in the British Parliament if they had sought such representation. Knox submitted that, whilst [the radical colonists] exclaim against Parliament for taxing them when they are not represented, they candidly declare they will not have representatives [in Parliament] lest they should be taxed...The truth...is that they are determined to get rid of the jurisdiction of Parliament...and they therefore refuse to send members to that assembly lest they should preclude themselves of [the] plea [that Parliament's] legislative acts...are done without their consent; which, it must be confessed, holds equally good against all laws, as against taxes...The colony advocates...tell us, that by refusing to accept our offer of representatives they...mean to avoid giving Parliament a pretence for taxing them.\n\nEdmund Burke responded to Knox, who had drawn up \"The Controversy between Great Britain and her Colonies Reviewed\" as well as \"The Present State of the Nation\" (1768) under the supervision of George Grenville, by opining in his political tract \"Observations on a Late State of the Nation\" (1769), NOW comes [Knox's] American representation...Is not the reader a little astonished at the proposal of an American representation from that quarter [of Grenville's]? It is proposed merely as a project of speculative improvement; not from the necessity in the case, not to add any thing to the authority of parliament: but that we may afford a greater attention to the concerns of the Americans, and give them a better opportunity of stating their grievances, and of obtaining redress. I am glad to find the author has at length discovered that we have not given a sufficient attention to their concerns, or a proper redress to their grievances. His great friend [Grenville] would once have been exceedingly displeased with any person, who should tell him, that he did not attend sufficiently to those concerns. He thought he did so, when he regulated the colonies over and over again: he thought he did so, when he formed two general systems of revenue; one of port-duties, and the other of internal taxation. These systems supposed, or ought to suppose, the greatest attention to, and the most detailed information of, all their affairs. However, by contending for the American representation, he seems at last driven virtually to admit, that great caution ought to be used in the exercise of all our legislative rights over an object so remote from our eye, and so little connected with our immediate feelings; that in prudence we ought not to be quite so ready with our taxes, until we can secure the desired representation in parliament. Perhaps it may be some time before this hopeful scheme can be brought to perfect maturity; although the author seems to be no wise aware of any obstructions that lie in the way of it.\n\nWhile Knox, Grenville and Burke were not necessarily opposed in principle to direct colonial representation in Parliament, Grenville nonetheless conjectured that Parliament retained a constitutional right to virtually represent the colonial subjects.\n\nBurke supported the doctrine of virtual representation in Britain. Yet in his Parliamentary speech of 1774, entitled \"On American Taxation\", Burke responded to the suggestion that America was virtually represented in Parliament by remarking, What! does the electric force of virtual representation more easily pass over the Atlantic than pervade Wales, which lies in your neighborhood? or than Chester and Durham, surrounded by abundance of representation that is actual and palpable? But, Sir, your ancestors thought this sort of virtual representation, however ample, to be totally insufficient for the freedom of the inhabitants of territories that are so near, and comparatively so inconsiderable. How, then, can I think it sufficient for those which are infinitely greater, and infinitely more remote? You will now, Sir, perhaps imagine that I am on the point of proposing to you a scheme for a representation of the colonies in Parliament. Perhaps I might be inclined to entertain some such thought; but a great flood stops me in my course. Opposuit Natura. I cannot remove the eternal barriers of the creation. The thing, in that mode, I do not know to be possible. As I meddle with no theory, I do not absolutely assert the impracticability of such a representation; but I do not see my way to it; and those who have been more confident have not been more successful...My resolutions, therefore, mean to establish the equity and justice of a taxation of America by grant, and not by imposition; to mark the legal competency of the colony assemblies for the support of their government in peace, and for public aids in time of war; to acknowledge that this legal competency has had a dutiful and beneficial exercise, and that experience has shown the benefit of their grants, and the futility of Parliamentary taxation, as a method of supply.\n\nHowever, Burke apparently qualified such remarks concerning America by stating in the same speech that, The Parliament of Great Britain...is never to intrude into the place of the [provincial legislatures], whilst they are equal to the common ends of their institution. But in order to enable [Parliamentary]...superintendence, her powers must be boundless. The gentlemen who think the powers of Parliament limited may please themselves to talk of requisitions. But suppose the requisitions are not obeyed? What! shall there be no reserved power in the empire, to supply a deficiency which may weaken, divide, and dissipate the whole? We are engaged in waar,—the Secretary of State calls upon the colonies to contribute,—some would do it, I think most would cheerfully furnish whatever is demanded,—one or two, suppose, hang back, and, easing themselves, let the stress of the draft lie on the others,—surely it is proper that some authority might legally say, \"Tax yourselves for the common Supply, or Parliament will do it for you.\" This backwardness was, as I am told, actually the case of Pennsylvania for some short time towards the beginning of the last war, owing to some internal dissensions in that colony. But whether the fact were so or otherwise, the case is equally to be provided for by a competent sovereign power. But then this ought to be no ordinary power, nor ever used in the first instance. This is what I meant, when I have said, at various times, that I consider the power of taxing in Parliament as an instrument of empire, and not as a means of supply.\n\nThe views of Knox, Grenville and Burke did not go unchallenged: William Pitt was amongst those who disputed that a Parliamentary right or power existed to levy \"internal\" taxes \"for the purposes of raising a revenue\" without the consent of actual representatives of the \"Commons of America\". \"It is my opinion,\" Pitt said, \"that this kingdom has no right to lay a tax upon the colonies.\"\n\nIn 1764, the Massachusetts politician James Otis, Jr., said that, \n\nOtis, Jr., attended the Continental Congress of 1765 along with other colonial delegates. The resolutions of the Congress stated that the Stamp Act had \"a manifest tendency to subvert the rights and liberties of the colonists\" and that \"the only Representatives of the People of these Colonies, are Persons chosen therein by themselves, and that no Taxes ever have been, or can be Constitutionally imposed on them, but by their respective Legislature.\" Furthermore, it was declared that, \"it is unreasonable and inconsistent with the Principles and Spirit of the British Constitution, for the People of Great-Britain, to grant to his Majesty the Property of the Colonists.\"\n\nDaniel Dulany, Jr., of Maryland, wrote in 1765 that, \"the Impropriety of a Taxation by the British Parliament...[is proven by] the Fact, that not one inhabitant in any Colony is, or can be actually or virtually represented by the British House of Commons.\" Dulany, Jr., denied that Parliament had a right \"to impose an internal Tax upon the Colonies, without their consent for the single Purpose of Revenue.\"\n\nIn 1766, Benjamin Franklin told the House of Commons that, \"an internal tax is forced from the people without their consent if not laid by their own representatives. The Stamp Act says we shall have no commerce, make no exchange of property with each other, neither purchase nor grant, nor recover debts; we shall neither marry nor make our wills, unless we pay such and such sums; and thus it is intended to extort our money from us or ruin us by the consequence of refusing to pay it.\"\n\nFor those sympathetic to republicanism, such as James Burgh, Catherine Macauley, and Richard Price, any tax revenue measures that were voted into effect without the direct representation of Americans were \"unconstitutional\" and \"pernicious\". Burgh felt that virtual representation was \"subversive of liberty\" and \"unjust in its principles\" and that the House of Commons must include colonial representatives when it voted on colonial matters, or operate by using the consent of the colonial Assemblies.\n\nThe Americans rejected the Stamp Act of 1765 brought in by British Prime Minister George Grenville, and violently rejected the remaining tax on tea imports, under the Tea Act passed in May 1773, at the Boston Tea Party on December 16, 1773. The Parliament considered this an illegal act because they believed it undermined the authority of the Crown-in-Parliament. When the British then used the military to enforce laws that the colonists believed Parliament had passed illegally, the colonists responded by forming militias and seized political control of each colony, ousting the royal governors – with the exception of the American-born Royal Governor of Connecticut, John Trumbull, who was allowed to remain as the new Patriot Governor.\n\nThe complaint was never officially over the amount of taxation (the taxes were quite low, though ubiquitous), but always on the political decision-making process by which taxes were decided in London, i.e. without representation for the colonists in British Parliament.\n\nPatrick Henry's resolution in the Virginia legislature implied that Americans possessed all the rights of Englishmen, that the principle of no taxation without representation was an essential part of the British Constitution, and that Virginia alone had the right to tax Virginians.\n\nThis offer of actual imperial representation was likewise re-stated to the delegates of the colonies via the colonial agents in 1774, according to Connecticut-born Reverend Thomas Bradbury Chandler, in his publication \"A Friendly Address to All Reasonable Americans\". In February 1775, Britain passed the Conciliatory Resolution which ended taxation for any colony which satisfactorily provided for the imperial defence and the upkeep of imperial officers.\n\nJames Macpherson, a colonial secretary of British West Florida, defended the North administration in an officially sponsored polemic in 1776 named \"The Rights of Great Britain Asserted\". This work replied to the Continental Congress' July 6, 1775 \"Declaration of the Causes and Necessity of Taking Up Arms\" by proposing that, Had the Americans, instead of flying to arms, submitted the same supposed grievance [as the taxed though unrepresented Palatine counties in England had], in a peaceable and dutiful manner, to the Legislature, I can perceive no reason why their request should be refused. Had they, like the County and City of Chester, represented, that \"for lack of Knights and Burgesses to represent them in the High Court of Parliament, they had been oftentimes TOUCHED and GRIEVED with Acts and Statutes made within the said Court, derogatory to their most ancient jurisdictions, liberties and privileges, and prejudicial to their quietness, rest and peace;\" this Country [of Britain] would, I am persuaded, have no objection to their being represented in her Parliament... If they are not madly bent on independence, let them propose the conditions on which they wish to continue as subjects...The Legislature of this Kingdom cannot possibly depart from any part of its supremacy over the Colonies; but it is in the power of the Colonies to share in that supremacy. If they complain of being taxed without having the privilege of sending Members to Parliament, let them be represented. Nay, more: Let their representation increase in proportion to the Revenue they shall furnish. If they wish rather to vote their QUOTA towards the general supply, through their own General Courts and Assemblies, the resolution of Parliament on that subject is still open to their choice. But, as long as they assume the language of a Sovereign State, this Kingdom can enter into no negociation [sic], can meet no compromise.\" The noted economist Adam Smith seconded this view in his famous 1776 publication \"Wealth of Nations\" when he recommended the Americans \"to send fifty or sixty new representatives to Parliament\" on the basis of the amount of taxes they would contribute to the Imperial coffers.\n\nWriting in October 1776 to Lord North in \"Strictures upon the Declaration of the Congress\" of the recent Declaration of Independence, and particularly of James Otis, Jr.'s pamphlet \"Rights of the British Colonies\" and its endorsement by the Massachusetts Assembly, Governor Thomas Hutchinson said, The Assembly of Massachusetts Bay, therefore, was the first that took any publick of the [Sugar] Act, and the first which ever took exception to the right of Parliament to impose Duties or Taxes on the Colonies, whilst they had no representatives in the House of Commons. This they did in a letter to their Agent in the summer of 1764, which they took care to print and publish before it was possible for him to receive it. And in this letter they recommend to him a pamphlet, wrote by one of their members, in which there are proposals for admitting representatives from the Colonies to fit in the House of Commons. I have this special reason, my Lord, for taking notice of this Act of the Massachusetts Assembly; that though an American representation is thrown out as an expedient which might obviate the objections to Taxes upon the Colonies, yet it was only intended to amuse the authority in England; and as soon as it was known to have its advocates here [in London], it was renounced by the colonies, and even by the Assembly of the Colony which first proposed it, as utterly impracticable.\" Indeed, the resolves of the Continental Congresses of both 1765 and 1774 declared that imperial representation was too impractical on the footing that \"local and other circumstances, cannot properly be represented in the British parliament\". The British Government, similarly, does not appear to have formally requested discussions with the Americans concerning the issue of Parliamentary seats until 1778. In that year \"the commissioners of the king of Great Britain,\" known as the Carlisle Peace Commission of 1778, made an offer to the Congress of \"a reciprocal deputation of an agent or agents from the different states, who shall have the privilege of a seat and voice in the parliament of Great Britain\".\n\nIn Britain, representation was highly limited due to unequally distributed voting constituencies and property requirements; only 3% of the population could vote and they were often controlled by local gentry. This meant that spurious arguments had come to be employed in Britain to try to explain away and cover up the iniquities in its political life. Therefore the British government tried to argue that the colonists had virtual representation in their interests. In the winter of 1764–65, George Grenville, and his secretary Thomas Whately, invented the doctrine of 'virtual representation' in an attempt extend the scope of such unjust arguments to America, and thereby attempt to legitimise the pernicious policies of the Stamp Act. In English history, \"no taxation without representation\" was an old principle and meant that Parliament had to pass all taxes. At first, the \"representation\" was held to be one of land, but, by 1700, this had shifted to the notion that, in Parliament, all British subjects had a \"virtual representation.\" \"We virtually and implicitly allow the institutions of any government of which we enjoy the benefit and solicit the protection,\" declared Samuel Johnson in his political pamphlet \"Taxation No Tyranny\". He rejected the plea that the colonists, who had no vote, were unrepresented. \"They are represented,\" he said, \"by the same virtual representation as the greater part of England.\" However, the tradition of greater democracy amongst Americans gave impetus to the well-founded charge, voiced by Britons and colonists alike, that virtual representation was \"sophistry\" and \"a mere Cob-web, spread to catch the unwary, and intangle [\"sic\"] the weak.\" The colonial insistence on direct representation as opposed to virtual representation has thus been seen by later commentators to have \"usher[ed] in a profound political and social revolution, which rooted out most of the remaining traces of monarchic rule and feudalism inherited from the only partially complete English bourgeois revolution. The Americans carried through the bourgeois democratic revolution on a scale never before seen in history.\"\n\nVirtual representation was wholly rejected in the colonies also who said the \"virtual\" was a cover for political corruption and was irreconcilable with their belief that government derives its just powers from the consent of the governed. In 1765, the American lawyer and politician James Otis, Jr., responded to Soame Jenyns' \"The Objections to the Taxation of Our American Colonies, by the Legislature of Great Britain, Briefly Considered\". Otis' own publication was entitled \"Considerations on Behalf of the Colonists, in a Letter to a Noble Lord\". He wrote in it, \"To what purpose is it to ring everlasting changes to the colonists on the cases of Manchester, Birmingham and Sheffield, who return no members? If those now so considerable places are not represented, they ought to be.\" Writing in his 1763 publication \"The Rights of the British Colonies Asserted and Proved\", Otis declared that,\nEvery British subject born on the continent of America, or in any other of the British dominions, is by the law of God and nature, by the common law, and by act of parliament, (exclusive of all charters from the Crown) entitled to all the natural, essential, inherent and inseparable rights of our fellow subjects in Great Britain. Among those rights...which it is humbly conceived no man or body of men, not excepting the parliament, justly, equitably and consistently with their own rights and the constitution, can take away...[are that the] supreme and subordinate powers of the legislation should be free and sacred in the hands where the community have once rightfully placed them...[that the] supreme national legislative cannot be altered justly ’till the commonwealth is dissolved, nor a subordinate legislative taken away without forfeiture or other good cause. Nor then can the subjects in the subordinate government be reduced to a state of slavery, and subject to the despotic rule of others...Even when the subordinate right of legislature is forfeited, and so declared, this cannot affect the natural persons either of those who were invested with it, or the inhabitants, so far as to deprive them of the rights of subjects and of men — The colonists will have an equitable right notwithstanding any such forfeiture of charter, to be represented in Parliament, or to have some new subordinate legislature among themselves. It would be best if they had both...[Furthermore, the right of every British subject is that the] supreme power cannot take from any man any part of his property, without his consent in person, or by representation.\n\nOtis simultaneously refuted, in \"The Rights of the British Colonies Asserted and Proved\", a contemporary argument that attempted to rationalise virtual representation on the basis of the colonial agents' alleged influence on British policy. \"As to the colonists being represented by the provincial agents,\" he wrote,\nI know of no power ever given them but to appear before his Majesty, and his ministry. Sometimes they have been directed to petition the parliament: But they none of them have, and I hope never will have, a power given them, by the colonists, to act as representatives, and to consent to taxes; and if they should make any concessions to the ministry, especially without order, the provinces could not by that be considered as represented in parliament.\n\nColonists said no man was represented if he were not allowed to vote. Moreover, even \"If every inhabitant of America had the requisite freehold,\" said Daniel Dulany, \"not one could vote, but upon the supposition of his ceasing to become an inhabitant of America, and becoming a resident of Great Britain.\" The colonists and like-minded Britons insisted that representation was achieved only through an assembly of men actually elected by the persons they were intended to represent.\n\nThe argument between the colonies and Parliament sought to resolve how the British 'commoners' of the various part of the Empire were represented most constitutionally – as Daniel Dulaney, an American Loyalist and lawyer, put it \"[the] constitutional authority [of Parliament's rights to bind American subjects] depends upon the single question, Whether the Commons of Great-Britain are virtually the representatives of the Commons of America, or not.\n\nThe theory of virtual representation was attacked in Britain by Charles Pratt, 1st Earl Camden, and his ally William Pitt, 1st Earl of Chatham. William Pitt argued in 1766 that the Commons of Britain ought not to tax the '\"Commons of America\" without gaining consent of their representatives in stating, \"even under former arbitrary reigns, Parliaments were ashamed of taxing a people without their consent, and allowed them representatives. Why did [Grenville] confine himself to Chester and Durham? He might have taken a higher example in Wales—Wales, that never was taxed by Parliament till it was incorporated.\" He then said, I am no courtier of America. I stand up for this kingdom. I maintain that the Parliament has a right to bind, to restrain America. Our legislative power over the colonies is sovereign and supreme. When it ceases to be sovereign and supreme, I would advise every gentleman to sell his lands, if he can, and embark for that country. When two countries are connected together like England and her colonies, without being incorporated, the one must necessarily govern. The greater must rule the less. But she must so rule it as not to contradict the fundamental principles that are common to both... let the sovereign authority of this country over the colonies be asserted in as strong terms as can be devised, and be made to extend to every point of legislation whatsoever; that we may bind their trade, confine their manufactures, and exercise every power whatsoever, except that of taking their money out of their pockets without their consent.\"\n\nIn his first speeches in Parliament, Lord Camden vigorously attacked the declaratory act which was proposed to mollify the crown on the repeal of the Stamp Tax. After his first affirmation of \"no taxation without representation\" Camden was attacked by British PM Grenville, Chief Justice James Mansfield, Robert Henley, 1st Earl of Northington, and others. He responded:[T]he British Parliament have no right to tax the Americans. I shall not consider the Declaratory Bill now lying on your table; for to what purpose, but loss of time, to consider the particulars of a Bill, the very existence of which is illegal, absolutely illegal, contrary to the fundamental laws of nature, contrary to the fundamental laws of this constitution? A constitution grounded on the eternal and immutable laws of nature; a constitution whose foundation and centre is liberty, which sends liberty to every individual who may happen to be within any part of its ample circumference. Nor, my Lords, is the doctrine new, it is as old as the constitution; it grew up with it; indeed it is its support; taxation and representation are inseparably united; God hath joined them, no British parliament can separate them; to endeavour to do it, is to stab our very vitals. … My position is this—I repeat it—I will maintain it to my last hour,—taxation and representation are inseparable; this position is founded on the laws of nature; it is more, it is itself an eternal law of nature; for whatever is a man's own, is absolutely his own; no man has a right to take it from him without his consent, either expressed by himself or representative; whoever attempts to do it, attempts an injury; whoever does it, commits a robbery; he throws down and destroys the distinction between liberty and slavery. Taxation and representation are coeval with and essential to the constitution. … [T]here is not a blade of grass growing in the most obscure corner of this kingdom, which is not, which was not ever, represented since the constitution began; there is not a blade of grass, which when taxed, was not taxed by the consent of the proprietor. … I can never give my assent to any bill for taxing the American colonies, while they remain unrepresented; for as to the distinction of a virtual representation, it is so absurd as not to deserve an answer; I therefore pass it over with contempt. The forefathers of the Americans did not leave their native country, and subject themselves to every danger and distress, to be reduced to a state of slavery: they did not give up their rights; they looked for protection, and not for chains, from their mother country; by her they expected to be defended in the possession of their property, and not to be deprived of it: for, should the present power continue, there is nothing which they can call their own; or, to use the words of Mr. Locke, ‘What property have they in that, which another may, by right, take, when he pleases, to himself?’\"In an appearance before Parliament in January, 1766, former Prime Minister William Pitt stated:\nThe idea of a virtual representation of America in this House is the most contemptible that ever entered into the head of a man. It does not deserve a serious refutation. The Commons of America, represented in their several assemblies, have ever been in possession of the exercise of this their constitutional right, of giving and granting their own money. They would have been slaves if they had not enjoyed it.\n\nGrenville responded to Pitt, saying the disturbances in America \"border on open rebellion; and if the doctrine I have heard this day be confirmed, nothing can tend more directly to produce a revolution.\" External and internal taxes are the same, argued Grenville.\n\nIn the 1860s, suffragette Sarah E. Wall of Worcester, Massachusetts invoked the principle of \"no taxation without representation\", initiating an anti-tax protest in which she encouraged women not to pay taxes until they were granted the right to vote. Soon after she began this movement, the Worcester city tax collector sued Wall for refusing to pay taxes, and the case reached the Massachusetts Supreme Court in 1863. In \"Wheeler v. Wall,\" the court ruled against Wall and held that despite not having the right to vote, women are still obligated to meet their tax burden. Even still, Wall refused to cooperate with the collector, and as a result, officers seized and sold her property in order to raise the money necessary to meet her tax obligation. After several years, Wall's inexorability eventually prevailed, as the collector began to ignore Wall and allow her to abstain from paying taxes. In 1884, Susan B. Anthony cited Wall's audacity and willingness to stand up for women's suffrage, stating, \"for the last twenty-five years, [she] has resisted the tax gatherer when he came around. I want you to look at her. She looks very harmless, but she will not pay a dollar of tax. She says when the Commonwealth of Massachusetts will give her the right of representation she will pay her taxes.\"\n\nThe phrase is also used by other groups in America who pay various types of taxes (sales, income, property) but lack the ability to vote, such as felons (who are, in many states, barred from voting), people who work in one state and live in another (thus having to pay income tax to a state they don't live in), or people under 18.\n\nTo become citizens of the United States, immigrants most often must be permanent residents for a period of time (usually 5 years). Permanent residents must pay taxes on their worldwide income and, in most cases, cannot vote. However, throughout the 19th century, many states did allow immigrants to vote after they had declared their intention to become citizens. This was primarily because these new states were populated in large part by immigrants who had not yet attained citizenship. Throughout U.S. history, non-citizens have been allowed to vote in 40 U.S. states and territories. As of 2005, non-citizens are allowed to vote in seven jurisdictions in the United States: Chicago and six towns in Montgomery County, Maryland.\n\nIn 2009, the phrase \"taxation without representation\" was also used in the Tea Party protests, where protesters were upset over increased government spending and taxes, and specifically regarding a growing concern amongst the group that the U.S. government is increasingly relying upon a form of taxation without representation through increased regulatory levies and fees which are allegedly passed via unelected government employees who have no direct responsibility to voters and cannot be held accountable by the public through elections.\n\nA modified version of the phrase, \"no tuition without representation\", is sometimes used in disputes over governance in higher education in the United States to emphasize student's rights to a voice in institutional decisions. The term first emerged in a 1977 dispute at Union County College in New Jersey. It has been used more recently in disputes at Dartmouth College, UC Berkeley School of Law, and elsewhere.\nIn the United States, the phrase is used in Washington, D.C. as part of the campaign for a vote in Congress, to publicize the fact that Washington residents pay Federal taxes, but do not have representation in Congress. In November 2000, the D.C. Department of Motor Vehicles began issuing license plates bearing the slogan \"Taxation without representation\". In a show of support for the city, President Bill Clinton used the \"Taxation Without Representation\" plates on the presidential limousine; however, President George W. Bush had the tags replaced to those without the motto shortly after taking office. President Barack Obama announced his intention to use the plates with the motto beginning at his second inauguration. President Donald Trump continued usage of the plates with the protest motto after he was elected, though he has stated he has \"no position\" on the issue of granting D.C. statehood.\n\nIn 2002, the Council of the District of Columbia authorized adding the slogan to the D.C. flag, but no new flag design was approved. In 2007, the District of Columbia and United States Territories Quarters program was created based on the successful 50 State Quarters program. DC submitted designs containing the slogan, but they were rejected by the U.S. Mint.\n\nBritish Prime Minister John Major used a modified version of the quote, with the order reversed, in October 1995, when at the United Nations's 50th Anniversary celebrations he said, \"It is not sustainable for states to enjoy representation without taxation,\" in order to criticize the billion-dollar arrears of the United States' payments to the UN, echoing a statement made the previous month at the opening session of the UN General Assembly by UK Foreign Secretary Malcolm Rifkind.\n\nIn Canada, Québec politician Gilles Duceppe, former leader of the Bloc Québécois, has repeatedly cited this phrase in defending the presence of his party in Ottawa. The Bloc is a Québec sovereigntist party solely running candidates in Canadian Federal elections in the province of Québec. Duceppe's evocation of the phrase implies that the proponents of Quebec's sovereigntist movement have the right to be represented in the body (which they are), the Canadian Parliament, which levies taxes upon them. He will usually cite the sentence in its original English.\n\nThe first government of South Australia was by a legislative council, whose members were chosen by the Crown and from which office-bearers \"Official Members\" were selected by the Governor. John Stephens and his \"South Australian Register\" were among those who campaigned for democratic reform. Partial reform took place in 1851, when a majority of Members of the South Australian Legislative Council, 1851–1855 were elected.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4190739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4190739", "title": "Occupational Safety and Health (Dock Work) Convention, 1979", "text": "Occupational Safety and Health (Dock Work) Convention, 1979\n\nOccupational Safety and Health (Dock Work) Convention, 1979 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1979, with the preamble stating:\nHaving decided upon the adoption of certain proposals with regard to the revision of the Protection against Accidents (Dockers) Convention (Revised), 1932 (No. 32)..\n\nThe principles contained in the convention are a revision of those contained in ILO Convention C32.\n\nAs of 2013, the convention has been ratified by 26 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "5637082", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5637082", "title": "Older Americans Amendments of 1975", "text": "Older Americans Amendments of 1975\n\nThe Older Americans Amendments of 1975 () was an Act of the 94th U.S. Congress to amend the Older Americans Act of 1965. The law prohibits discrimination based on age in programs or activities that receive federal financial assistance, for instance, financial assistance to schools and colleges, provided by U.S. Department of Education. \n\n"}
{"id": "40707036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40707036", "title": "Orion Bus Industries Orion-Ikarus 286", "text": "Orion Bus Industries Orion-Ikarus 286\n\nOrion Bus Industries Orion-Ikarus 286 or commonly known as the Orion III was a Hungarian-built and Canada-assembled articulated bus, sold by Orion Bus Industries to the Canada market and similar to Crown-Ikarus 286 in the United States.\n\nShell and partial built shells were sent from Ikarus Body and Coach Works in Hungary and finally assembly (doors, windows and seats) at Orion Bus's plant in Mississauga, Ontario from 1985 to 1989.\n\nFour transit agencies used the 286, but only 3 had them on full roster:\n\n\nTransit Windsor operated a demo vehicle only (June 1985) for tunnel service along the Detroit–Windsor Tunnel.\n"}
{"id": "3291854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3291854", "title": "Paul Craig (law professor)", "text": "Paul Craig (law professor)\n\nPaul P. Craig (born 27 September 1951) is currently Professor of English Law at the University of Oxford and a Fellow of St John's College. Craig is a specialist in Administrative and EU Law.\n\nHe was educated at Worcester College, Oxford, where he took his MA and BCL. He stayed at Worcester, and was made a Fellow in 1976. He remained a Fellow until his move to St John's in 1998.\n\nHe is the author of a number of legal textbooks the most well known of which (EU Law: Text, Cases and Materials) was published in its 5th edition by Oxford University Press in September 2011.\n\nHe currently teaches 5 week courses in Administrative Law and European Union Law at the Indiana University School of Law-Bloomington. He also lectures in Constitutional Law at the University of Oxford, and a Masters Course at the University of Melbourne, Australia.\n\n"}
{"id": "46281318", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46281318", "title": "RARBG", "text": "RARBG\n\nRARBG is a website, founded in 2008, that provides torrent files and magnet links to facilitate peer-to-peer file sharing using the BitTorrent protocol.\n\nIn December 2008, the site closed for one week due to legal pressure from BREIN. \n\nRARBG is blocked in the following countries:\n"}
{"id": "5832029", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5832029", "title": "Robichaud v Canada (Treasury Board)", "text": "Robichaud v Canada (Treasury Board)\n\nRobichaud v Canada (Treasury Board), [1987] 2 S.C.R. 84 is a leading case decided by the Supreme Court of Canada on sexual harassment under the Canadian Human Rights Act. The Court found that a corporation can be found liable for the discriminatory conduct of its employees who are acting \"in the course of their employment.\" It also found it necessary to impose liability, as the employer is the only one that is in the position to remedy the discriminatory conduct.\n\n"}
{"id": "13672285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13672285", "title": "San Francisco 8", "text": "San Francisco 8\n\nThe San Francisco 8 were eight former Black Panthers who were arrested in January 2007 for their alleged involvement in the 1971 murder of Sgt. John V. Young at Ingleside Police station. Herman Bell and Jalil Muntaqim were already incarcerated. Richard Brown, Richard O'Neal, Ray Boudreaux, and Hank Jones were arrested in California, Francisco Torres was arrested in Queens, New York, and Harold Taylor was arrested in Florida. Bail amounts were originally set between three and five million dollars each.\n\nIn January 2008, charges of conspiracy were dropped against five of the defendants, and Richard O'Neal was removed from the case altogether, changing the name of the case to the San Francisco 7. On June 29, 2009, Bell pleaded guilty to voluntary manslaughter in the death of Young. The following month, charges were dropped against Boudreaux, Brown, Jones, and Taylor, and Muntaquim pleaded no contest to conspiracy to commit voluntary manslaughter.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3582952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3582952", "title": "Scunthorpe problem", "text": "Scunthorpe problem\n\nThe Scunthorpe problem is the blocking of websites, e-mails, forum posts or search results by a spam filter or search engine because their text contains a string of letters that appear to have an obscene or unacceptable meaning. Names, abbreviations, and technical terms are most often cited as being affected by the issue.\n\nThe problem arises since computers can easily identify strings of text within a document, but interpreting words of this kind requires considerable ability to interpret a wide range of contexts, possibly across many cultures, which is an extremely difficult task. As a result, broad blocking rules may result in false positives affecting innocent phrases.\n\nThe problem was named after an incident in 1996 in which AOL's profanity filter prevented residents of the town of Scunthorpe, North Lincolnshire, England from creating accounts with AOL, because the town's name contains the substring \"cunt\".\nYears later, Google's opt-in SafeSearch filters apparently made the same mistake, preventing residents from searching for local businesses that included \"Scunthorpe\" in their names.\n\nMistaken decisions by obscenity filters include:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4324275", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4324275", "title": "Seafarers' Identity Documents Convention (Revised), 2003", "text": "Seafarers' Identity Documents Convention (Revised), 2003\n\nSeafarers' Identity Documents Convention (Revised), 2003 is an International Labour Organization Convention.\n\nIt was established in 1958, with the preamble stating:\nHaving been convened at Geneva by the Governing Body of the International Labour Office, and having met in its Ninety-first Session on 3 June 2003, and Mindful of the continuing threat to the security of passengers and crews and the safety of ships, to the national interest of States and to individuals, and\n\nMindful also of the core mandate of the Organization, which is to promote decent conditions of work, and\n\nConsidering that, given the global nature of the shipping industry, seafarers need special protection, and\n\nRecognizing the principles embodied in the Seafarers' Identity Documents Convention, 1958, concerning the facilitation of entry by seafarers into the territory of Members, for the purposes of shore leave, transit, transfer or repatriation, and..\n\nThis Convention revised Convention C108 Seafarers' Identity Documents Convention, 1958\n\nAs of December 2016, the convention has been ratified by 33 states.\n\n"}
{"id": "2178479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2178479", "title": "Street law", "text": "Street law\n\nStreet Law (also known as \"StreetLaw\") is a global program of legal and civics education geared at secondary school students. Street Law is an approach to teaching practical law to grassroots populations using interactive teaching methodologies. Elements of practical law taught include awareness of human rights/civil rights, democratic principles, conflict resolution, the advocacy process, criminal and civil law, employment law, family law, and consumer rights.\n\nThe Street Law approach began in 1972 when Georgetown University Law Center developed a program that sent law students into high schools in Washington, DC to teach practical law lessons to high school students. Street Law, Inc., an outgrowth of the Georgetown program, develops and implements practical law education programs around the world. Street Law, Inc. is a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization. Its main offices are located in Silver Spring, Maryland, USA.\n\nAlthough Street Law traces its founding to Georgetown Law, it has spread to many law schools globally. Neither Georgetown Law nor Street Law, Inc. exercise vertical or indirect control over local Street Law programs. Within U.S. law schools, Street Law is typically run as a legal clinic or experiential learning module, where law students receive law school academic credit for participation. At other law schools, Street Law is run as a student organization or as an extracurricular activity, typically under direct faculty supervision.\n\nOne core Street Law module is a teaching program wherein law students are sent into community schools to teach high school students age appropriate lessons in the law. Within the U.S., this means that second and third year law students are paired with secondary school classes where they regularly teach courses on law and legal subjects. There is significant autonomy and differentiation in the way that Street Law is taught nationally in the U.S. and globally, and Street Law expressly encourages law schools and law students to experiment with different teaching methodologies to account for different learning styles depending on age, culture, regional and state differences, and so on.\n\nOther Street Law approaches include: teaching Legal Life Skills to underserved populations; Teacher Professional Development courses; partnerships with the legal community (both law firm and corporate) to teach about the law and legal careers to secondary students; teaching about rule of law, democracy and civil rights to populations in countries outside of the US; and publishing teaching resources.\n\nAmong other publications, McGraw-Hill has published a high school social studies textbook using this approach.\n\nMcGraw-Hill has also published a high school government textbook co-authored by Street Law.\n\nMcGraw-Hill also publishes \"Street Law: Understanding Law and Legal Issues\", an informative law-based, civic learning text for use in the community college program.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38705489", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38705489", "title": "United States v. Olofson", "text": "United States v. Olofson\n\nUnited States v. Olofson, 563 F.3d 652 (2009), is an appellate decision in the case of David Olofson, who was convicted by a jury of knowingly transferring a machine gun in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(o). Olofson was sentenced to thirty months in prison, which he began serving after his appeal to the US Court of Appeals for the Seventh Circuit failed. The US Supreme Court declined to hear a further appeal. Olofson's case was, for a time, a minor cause célèbre in conservative media and among gun rights advocates, attracting support from, among others, Lou Dobbs of \"CNN\" and from Oath Keepers, and legal assistance from Gun Owners of America.\n\nOn July 13, 2006, US Army Reservist David Olofson of Berlin, Wisconsin, lent an AR-15 rifle to Robert Kiernicki, who took the gun to a local shooting range. The firing selector switch on the rifle had three positions: \"Fire,\" \"Safety,\" and a third, unmarked position. While at the range Kiernicki switched the AR-15's firing selector to the third position and pulled the trigger. The gun discharged three or four rounds and then jammed; Kiernicki did this several times with the rifle jamming each time. Following a telephone complaint of automatic gunfire, Berlin police showed up at the range, and after questioning Kiernicki, confiscated Olofson's AR-15 and contacted the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives (ATF) about the incident.\n\nOn July 19, 2006, ATF agents, Berlin police officers, and the Green Lake County Sheriff's Department SWAT team carried out a warranted search of Olofson's home. During the course of the search, Olofson spoke with law enforcement officers and acknowledged lending the AR-15 to Kiernicki.\n\nOlofson was indicted by a federal grand jury on December 5, 2006, on charges of knowingly transferring a machine gun in violation of 18 U.S.C. § 922(o). Shortly before the trial began, Olofson filed an evidentiary motion to compel the prosecution to produce documents concerning the ATF's testing procedures, correspondence between the ATF and the manufacturer of Olofson's AR-15 regarding M-16 parts used in such rifles, and the ATF's registration history of AR-15 rifles containing M-16 parts. The trial court judge denied the motion on the first day of trial, concluding that the information sought was not exculpatory under \"Brady v. Maryland\".\n\nAccording to the testimony of Kiernicki, Olofson's purpose for lending the gun was to sell it to Kiernicki. Kiernicki also testified Olofson knew about the third automatic firing mode, but that it jammed. The prosecution also provided evidence from Olofson's computer with proof of acquiring M-16 parts, which could be used to make an AR-15 automatic. Olofson also \"had contact with vigilante groups\" and indicated he was \"part of the sovereign movement\", according to U.S. Assistant Attorney Gregory Haanstad.\n\n"}
{"id": "1680639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1680639", "title": "Zelman v. Simmons-Harris", "text": "Zelman v. Simmons-Harris\n\nZelman v. Simmons-Harris, 536 U.S. 639 (2002), was a 5-4 decision of the United States Supreme Court that upheld an Ohio program that used school vouchers. The Court decided that the program did not violate the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment even if the vouchers could be used for private, religious schools.\n\nThe public schools in many of the poorer parts of Cleveland were deemed failures, and the legislature enacted the Pilot Project Scholarship Program in an effort to address the problem. Ohio had been running the program, which allowed parents of qualified students in the Cleveland School District, from the 1996–97 school year, to use public money to pay for tuition at private schools in the program, which included religious schools.\n\nOf the 56 private schools that agreed to the program, 46 of them were sectarian. The program aimed to improve the low educational performance of the students in the school district \n\nThe program provided tuition vouchers for up to $2,250 a year to some parents of students in the school district to attend participating public or private schools in the city and neighboring suburbs and allocated tutorial aid for students who remained in public schools.\n\nThe vouchers were distributed to parents according to financial need. The parents chose where to enroll their children. Because the number of students applying to the program greatly exceeded the number of vouchers available, recipients were chosen by lottery from among the eligible families. In the 1999–2000 school year, 82% of the participating private schools had a religious affiliation, none of the adjacent suburban public schools joined the program, and 96% of the students receiving vouchers were enrolled in religiously-affiliated schools and 60% were from low-income families, at or below the poverty line.\n\nParticipating schools were not permitted to discriminate on the basis of race, religion, or ethnic background. They are also not allowed to \"advocate or foster unlawful behavior or teach hatred of any person or group on the basis of race, ethnicity, national origin, or religion.\" A group of Ohio taxpayers then filed an action against Susan Zelman, the superintendent of public education in Ohio, by pleading that the program violated the Establishment Clause. Simmons-Harris, along with other residents of the Cleveland area, argued that the government \"could not pay tuition for students to attend religious school.\" The local federal district court, in addition to the Court of Appeals for the Sixth Circuit, ruled in favor of Simmons-Harris.\n\nZelman continued the case and appealed to the Supreme Court of the United States, which sustained the voucher program.\n\nThe First Amendment protects the rights to freedom of religion and to freedom of expression from government interference. The First Amendment comes into play because the taxpayers of Ohio said that the program was a violation of the Establishment Clause, one of the two clauses of the First Amendment. The Establishment Clause guarantees freedom of religion and strictly prohibits the government from passing any legislation to establish an official religion or preferring one religion over another; it thus enforces the \"separation of church and state.\"\n\nSince the program was designed to provide no incentive for religious private, secular private, or public schools, the taxpayers did not want their money to pay for the children who wanted religious schooling.\n\nChief Justice Rehnquist delivered the majority opinion. He declared that the school voucher program was not in violation of the Establishment Clause. He also deemed that government support for religion was constitutional if it did not occur \"de jure\" but \"de facto\" and also failed to specify or to encourage religious schools. Cleveland's program was declared to be religiously neutral and to be giving parents the benefit of true private choice.\n\nRehnquist referred to the program's aims as strictly-secular assistance for the poor, low-performing children, who would be otherwise stuck in the communities that were failed by the school district.\n\nMoreover, the issue was whether the school voucher program encouraged or inhibited religion directly. The Court used its precedent in \"Mueller v. Allen\" (1983) that aid could constitutionally be given to parents but not to schools. The Court found that there were thus no religious advances, in reference to the Establishment Clause.\n\nThe likelihood of religious private schools in the area at the particular time and the decision of the student were not fundamental in the constitutionality of the voucher program. The vouchers were available to a general class of citizens who met the needed criteria and were given a personal, independent choice of voucher-accepting schools. As a state plan to make a better education readily available for poor students, there was no religious bias. Offering parents the choice to use the voucher for tutorial aid in public school, a scholarship for religious or nonreligious private schools or magnet schools, or enrollment in community college made no incentive to pick a religious private school.\n\nIf parents wanted to pick religious schools for their children to attend, their choice should have no bearing on the government. The incidental advancement of a religious mission was reasonably inferable to the individual, not the government. The government's role ended with the expense of beliefs. \n\nRehnquist continued that the program encouraged the true private choice of the family. By basing school vouchers strictly on the economic means of the student and on geographic location, religious concerns were factored. Another primary issue of the case concerned the 96% of scholarship recipients who attended religious private school. The Court noted that the program actually provided disincentives for religious schools: the private school received only half of that allocated to community schools and only a third of that allocated to magnet schools.\n\nJustice O'Connor and Justice Thomas added comments when they both delivered a separate concurring opinion to the majority.\n\nO'Connor strongly believed that the program made no real and clear distinction between religious and non-religious schools and that both were rational education alternatives. O'Connor mentioned in her concurrence that many beneficiaries used community and private non-religious schools. That and the fact that true private school choice was available made the program not technically violate the Establishment Clause.\n\nShe focused on a few specific points. First, like the majority, she emphasized that its inquiry required an evaluation of all reasonable educational options that Ohio provided to the Cleveland school system, regardless of whether they were formally made available in the same section of the Ohio Code as the voucher program. She insisted that the facts were critical in cases arising under the Establishment Clause by saying that failing to look at all of the educational options would \"ignore how the educational system in Cleveland actually functions.\"\n\nAlso, she believed that the \"decision, when considered in light of other longstanding government programs that impact religious organizations and our prior Establishment Clause jurisprudence, [does not] mark a dramatic break from the past.\"\n\nFinally, she believed, \"The share of public resources that reach religious schools is not... as significant as respondents suggest... $8.2 million is no small sum, it pales in comparison to the amount of funds that federal, state, and local governments already provide religious institutions\" without there being any serious question regarding the constitutionality of such support. Her conclusion in the case, like in many other cases, was tied closely to the facts of the case.\n\nThomas's opinion focused on the civil rights implications of the case:\n\"Frederick Douglass once said that '[e]ducation... means emancipation. It means light and liberty. It means the uplifting of the soul of man into the glorious light of truth, the light by which men can only be made free.' Today many of our inner-city public schools deny emancipation to urban minority students. Despite this Court's observation nearly 50 years ago in \"Brown v. Board of Education\", that 'it is doubtful that any child may reasonably be expected to succeed in life if he is denied the opportunity of an education,' urban children have been forced into a system that continually fails them. These cases present an example of such failures. Besieged by escalating financial problems and declining academic achievement, the Cleveland City School District was in the midst of an academic emergency when Ohio enacted its scholarship program.\"\n\nThomas gave another string concurrence to this Supreme Court decision: \"The protection of religious liberty using the Fourteenth Amendment is legitimate, but to use the Establishment Clause to prevent the operation of a perfectly neutral program concerning school choice is not.\" Thomas simply asserted that all this program did was essentially provide an educational opportunity to a range of disadvantaged minority children, the importance of it all.\n\nJustice Stevens and Justice Souter both wrote a separate dissenting opinion.\n\nJustice Stevens's dissenting opinion focused on the method by which the majority reached its conclusions. In his view, the Court \"should ignore three factual matters that are discussed at length.\" Specifically, he argued that the Court should not consider the severe educational crisis that confronted the school district when Ohio enacted its voucher program, the wide range of choices that have been made available to students within the public school system, or the voluntary character of the private choice to prefer a private religious education over a public secular education.\n\nJustice Souter's dissenting opinion presented the voucher program as using the tax payers for religious and secular instruction and card to the verdict of a similar case. \"Everson v. Board of Education\" decided that no tax could be used to support religious means. Because Ohio's school voucher program offered aid to those who wished to attend religious private schools, it directly violated \"Everson\". Furthermore, allowing vouchers to be used with religious schooling advanced secular learning and institutions. Souter expresses that ignoring the ruling of \"Everson\" ignored the importance of neutrality and private choice. Moreover, disregarding \"Everson\" promoted a new way of thinking that held government aid as insignificant in constitutional grounds. He commented on the voucher money that was going to religious schools as a reflection of free choice by families: \"The 96.6% reflects, instead the fact that too few nonreligious school desks are available and few, but religious schools can afford to accept more than a handful of voucher students... For the overwhelming number of children in the voucher scheme, the only alternative to the public schools is religious.\" Souter strongly voiced his denunciation on the fact that the decision undermined the point of prohibiting religious establishments. He claimed that it was all to save religion from its own corruption, but participation in the program depended on adopting rules that might come in forms of religious discrimination.\n\nModerate Justices Kennedy and O'Connor and conservative Justices Rehnquist, Scalia, and Thomas combined to form the majority.\n\nThe Ohio program passed a five-part test that was developed by the Court in the case, the private choice test. It states that a voucher program, to be constitutional, must meet all five criteria:\n\nThe court ruled that the Ohio program met the test:\n\nRehnquist, writing for the majority, stated, \"The incidental advancement of a religious mission, or the perceived endorsement of a religious message, is reasonably attributable to the individual aid recipients not the government, whose role ends with the disbursement of benefits.\" In theory, there was no need for parents to use religious schools, and if the law did not especially encourage the use of vouchers for religious schools, the fact that most parents chose parochial schools was irrelevant. Funding was given to the parents to disburse as they chose, but in \"Lemon v. Kurtzman\", the funding at question was given directly to the schools, which failed the test.\n\nIn his concurring opinion, Thomas emphasized that voucher programs, like the one in the case, were essential because \"failing urban public schools disproportionately affect minority children most in need of educational opportunity.\" He stated that vouchers and other forms of publicly-funded private school choice are necessary to give families an opportunity to enroll their children in better, private schools. Otherwise, \"the core purposes of the Fourteenth Amendment\" would be frustrated.\n\nThe dissenting opinions disagreed, and Stevens wrote that \"the voluntary character of the private choice to prefer a parochial education over an education in the public school system seems to me quite irrelevant to the question whether the government's choice to pay for religious indoctrination is constitutionally permissible.\" Souter questioned how the Court could both keep \"Everson\" as precedent and decide the case as it did. He also found that religious education and secular education could not be separated, which would automatically violate the Establishment Clause. The establishment clause claims that State are passing laws in correlation to religion. \n\nMost state constitutions have so-called \"Blaine Amendments\", which specifically forbid state funding of religious and/or sectarian education. As a question of state, not federal, law, Ohio's Blaine Amendment was not considered by federal courts in the case.\n\nOther states, such as Florida, have struck down similar voucher systems as violative of the Blaine Amendment.\n\n\n"}
