{"id": "53737060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53737060", "title": "Act 39", "text": "Act 39\n\nAct 39 of 2013 established the U.S. state of Vermont's Patient Choice and Control at End of Life Act (Vermont Statutes Annotated Sec. 1. 18 V.S.A. chapter 113), which legalizes medical aid in dying (commonly referred to as physician-assisted suicide) with certain restrictions. Vermont was the first state to enact this Law through legislative action; it permits some terminally ill patients to determine the time of their own death.\n\nThe measure was passed by both House and Senate and signed into law by Vermont Governor Peter Shumlin on May 8, 2013.\n\nUnder the law, a competent adult Vermont resident who has been diagnosed, by a physician, with a terminal illness that will kill the patient within six months, may request in writing, from his or her physician, a prescription for a lethal dose of medication for the purpose of ending the patient's life. Exercise of the option under this law is voluntary and the patient must initiate the request. A patient who obtains a prescription for the intended purpose of hastening death may change his or her mind at any time. Any physician, pharmacist or healthcare provider who has moral objections may refuse to participate.\n\nThe request must be confirmed by two witnesses, at least one of whom is not related to the patient, is not entitled to any portion of the patient's estate, is not the patient's physician, and is not employed by a healthcare facility caring for the patient. The prescribing physician must refer the patient to a second physician for medical confirmation of the diagnosis, prognosis, and a determination that the patient is capable, is acting voluntarily, and is making an informed decision. After the request is made, another physician must examine the patient's medical records and confirm the diagnosis. The patient must be determined to be free of a mental condition impairing judgment. If the request is authorized, the patient must wait at least fifteen days and make a second oral request before the prescription may be written. The patient has a right to rescind the request at any time. Should either physician have concerns about the patient's ability to make an informed decision, or feel the patient's request may be motivated by depression or coercion, the patient must be referred for a psychological evaluation.\n\nThe law protects doctors from liability for providing a lethal prescription for a terminally ill, competent adult in compliance with the statute's restrictions. Participation by physicians, pharmacists and health care providers is voluntary.\n\nA physician may prescribe medication to a terminally ill adult patient that will be self-administered for the purpose of hastening the patient's death. In order to comply with Vermont law, the physician must:\n\nDick and Ginny Walters, founders of Patient Choices Vermont (PCV) began working to pass Vermont's Act 39 in 2002, based on the Oregon Death with Dignity Act. They were both 77 years old and had no idea that it would take eleven years to pass the bill and another two years to solidify it. They began by studying the Vermont legislative process, and based on numerous meetings in their living room a small group formed a 501(c)(4) corporation. Their daughter, Betsy Walkerman, an attorney who is now President of PCV, drafted the first Vermont bill following the pattern of the Oregon Death with Dignity Act. Their daughter Nancy Hawley set up PCV's first website.\nAs the issue moved forward in the legislature, opponents stated that Vermont was targeted by a national organization to pass this law. This was far from the truth. Vermont's death with dignity movement was Vermont-based from the start. Dick and Ginny, knowing that Vermonters, who see themselves as independent thinkers, would not want to be directed by outsiders, they made sure that the organization maintained and displayed its clear Vermont roots.\nTo find sponsors in the legislature, Dick contacted representatives and senators who were likely to be in favor of right-to-die legislation. Early on, thirty-nine representatives and a number of senators agreed to co-sponsor the proposed DWD bill.\nPCV enlisted the assistance of national organizations to make use of their experience. Both Death with Dignity National Center and Compassion and Choices helped with advice, telephoning, funding, and connections to Oregon people who flew in to testify in legislative committee hearings. Among them were a rabbi, the head of the state hospice organization, and a researcher from Oregon Health & Science University who worked extensively on the statistics in Oregon.\nFrom the beginning, PCV's Board of Directors included professors and medical doctors. All were committed to the mission and worked persistently through many years, enabling the group to become close-knit. Early in the process, Dick and Ginny were introduced to the lobbying firm of Sirotkin and Necrason (now the Necrason Group), with whom PCV developed a close and lasting relationship. Their steadfast dedication, invaluable expertise and guidance in strategic planning was critical to the organization's success.\nIn 2004, at the request of the legislature, the Vermont Legislative Counsel studied Oregon's Death with Dignity law and published a report detailing its efficacy and positive outcomes. Through 2009, legislation was proposed in the Vermont House and Senate, and committees in both chambers conducted extensive hearings. PCV organized written and verbal testimony by a wide range of people, including people experienced with the adoption and implementation of the law in Oregon, and numerous individuals with deeply personal and family stories. The underlying theme was freedom to choose. Repeatedly, independent polls showed Vermonters favored the bill by two to one, across political parties and religions. Many individuals with disabilities testified in favor of the legislation because people with disabilities, like everyone else, want to control their own medical decisions when diagnosed with a terminal illness. Opposition was strong and vocal, raising a number of concerns. PCV persistently presented the facts from Oregon.\nPCV worked strategically through the years to build knowledge and support among legislators and legislative leadership. It took time and citizen action to educate representatives about freedom of choice at the end of life. Throughout Vermont, the proposed legislation gained attention and supporters because of letters to the editor and media accounts.\nSome PCV Board members spoke at Rotary Clubs, at gatherings at the homes of supporters and at professional meetings of healthcare providers. PCV expanded its database of supporters by setting up DWD displays and collecting signatures at Town Meetings, which take place every year throughout Vermont in the month of March. Among PCV's thousands of supporters were activists who contacted legislators, wrote letters to the editor, and contributed to the campaign. During the most active part of the campaign, PCV engaged a grassroots organizing firm to activate a database by organizing telephone trees, continually updating the website, posting on social media, using email and snail mail and setting up TV ads.\nAlthough the Vermont Medical Association testified that Act 39 was not needed, PCV developed a list of 200 supporting physicians. They understood that for the terminally ill patient, just knowing that it's legal to avoid a protracted painful dying process brings peace of mind.\nBy 2013, Vermont had a Governor who was a committed advocate for DWD. The Speaker of the House, a strong and determined leader, also was eager to see the legislation passed. To achieve a majority vote in the Senate, a compromise consisting of a “sunset” provision that would have allowed most of the safeguards to disappear in 2016 was necessary. PCV celebrated passage but was concerned that weakening the required safeguards would make the law vulnerable to repeal.\nIn 2015, Act 39 was revised to remove the sunset provision, and the final bill was signed on May 20, 2015, thereby solidifying Vermont's Act 39. The Governor, the House Speaker, legislators and thousands of ordinary Vermonters came together to establish the Patient Choice at End of Life Act.\n\nTwenty-four prescriptions have been written within the first three years after inception of Vermont's Act 39. Sixteen of them were written in 2016, showing a careful, steady utilization increase.\n\nIn July, 2016 the Vermont Alliance for Ethical Healthcare and Tennessee-based Christian Medical and Dental Association filed a lawsuit against the State of Vermont. The groups claim both Act 39 and Vermont's Patient Rights law violate the plaintiffs’ religious rights by requiring doctors to discuss all end-of-life care options with their patients. \nDuring the first hearing in the case on Nov. 8, the plaintiffs’ attorneys suggested his physician clients would be willing to “…tell a patient that they can Google assisted suicide on their cell phone and that's a reasonably available source of information…”\n“The notion that doctors could fulfill their professional duty to ensure patients can make fully-informed decisions by Googling to learn about their end-of-life care options is the height of irresponsibility,” said Linda Waite-Simpson, Vermont state director for Compassion & Choices. “It would be tantamount to doctors abandoning their patients at the most vulnerable time of their lives, especially given the danger of them Googling -- and relying upon -- fake news posted online.”\n\nU.S. District Court Judge Geoffrey W. Crawford has granted a motion by Compassion & Choices, Patient Choices Vermont and two terminally ill Vermonters that allows them to argue in court against a lawsuit brought by religious groups to undermine Vermont's End-of-Life Choice Act (Act 39). In granting the motion to allow Compassion & Choices and Patient Choices Vermont to intervene in the case, Judge Crawford wrote: “As people potentially eligible for consideration under Act 39, both individual (patient) intervenors have strong personal reasons for resisting the type of silence or boycott which Plaintiffs seek to preserve for themselves on an issue of patient choice … the intervenor organizations (Compassion & Choices and Patient Choices Vermont) appear to have considerable experience in the field. The court welcomes their advice and expertise…”\n“The Vermont law respects everyone’s personal beliefs because it allows any person or healthcare professional to refuse to directly participate in medical aid in dying,” said Kevin Díaz, national director of legal advocacy for Compassion & Choices. “But these doctors contend their personal beliefs should trump their patients’ rights when it comes to simply referring them to a healthcare professional to advise them about all their end-of-life care options. It should send shivers down the spine of every patient.”\n“This case is about a patient’s right to know what their options are at the end of life,” said Betsy Walkerman, President of Patient Choices Vermont. “Physicians should not impose their personal religious values on their patients by preventing them from receiving information about all of their end-of-life care options.”\n\nOn April 5, 2017, U.S. District Court Judge Geoffrey Crawford ruled that two medical organizations failed to show that their members — two doctors, a nurse and a pharmacist who oppose the law for religious and ethical reasons — faced any harm and dismissed their legal challenge of Vermont's 2013 end-of-life law.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53839669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53839669", "title": "Action for Climate Empowerment (ACE)", "text": "Action for Climate Empowerment (ACE)\n\nAction for Climate Empowerment (ACE) is a term adopted by the United Nations Framework Convention on Climate Change (UNFCCC). It refers to Article 6 of the Convention’s original text (1992), focusing on six priority areas: education, training, public awareness, public participation, public access to information, and international cooperation on these issues. The implementation of all six areas has been identified as the pivotal factor for everyone to understand and participate in solving the complex challenges presented by climate change. The importance of ACE is reflected in other international frameworks such as the Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs, 2015); the Global Action Programme for Education for Sustainable Development (GAP on ESD, 2014); the Aarhus Convention (2011); and the Bali Guidelines (2010).\n\nACE calls on governments to develop and implement educational and public awareness programmes, train scientific, technical and managerial personnel, foster access to information, and promote public participation in addressing climate change and its effects. It also urges countries to cooperate in this process, by exchanging good practices and lessons learned, and strengthening national institutions. This wide scope of activities is guided by specific objectives that, together, are seen as crucial for effectively implementing climate adaptation and mitigation actions, and for achieving the ultimate objective of the UNFCCC.\n\nArticle 6 has been part of the UNFCCC since the Convention’s text was adopted on 9 May 1992. The importance of international cooperation in achieving Article 6 was emphasised in article 10(e) of the Kyoto protocol, adopted in 1997. In New Delhi, 2002, the eleventh Conference of the Parties (COP 11) adopted the ‘New Delhi Work Programme’ (2002–2007) –to serve as a flexible framework for country-driven action on Article 6 in addressing the specific needs and circumstances of Parties, and reflecting their national priorities and initiatives. In 2007, COP 13 (in Bali) amended the New Delhi work programme and extended it for five years (2007-2012) and requested that regional workshops be organized by the UNFCCC secretariat as part of the review of the work programme, and to share lessons learned and best practices. Workshops were held in Europe (2009), Asia and the Pacific (2009), Small Island Developing States (2010), Africa (2010), and Latin America and the Caribbean (2010).\n\nIn Doha, 2012, COP 18 adopted the eight-year Doha Work Programme on Article 6 of the UNFCCC (2012-2020). This programme invites Parties to designate and provide support, including technical and financial support, and access to information and materials to a National Focal Point for Article 6 of the UNFCCC. Furthermore, Parties agreed to organize an annual in-session Dialogue on Article 6 of the UNFCCC to present and enhance the relevant work. Since 2013, the annual Dialogue has provided a platform for Parties, representatives of relevant bodies established under the UNFCCC and relevant experts, practitioners and stakeholders to share their experiences and exchange ideas, best practices and lessons learned regarding the implementation of the Doha Work Programme.\n\nIn June 2015, at the 3rd annual dialogue on Article 6 in Bonn, it was decided that efforts related to the implementation of Article 6 would be referred to as Action for Climate Empowerment (ACE): a user-friendly, and unmistakable term for referring to Article 6 of the UNFCCC, as opposed to the very important Article 6 of the Paris Agreement. COP 20 In Lima, December 2014 adopted the ‘Lima Ministerial Declaration on Education and Awareness-raising’, reaffirming the importance of Article 6 of the UNFCCC in meeting its ultimate objective and in promoting climate-resilient sustainable development. In 2015 at COP 21 (Paris) governments agreed to cooperate in taking measures, as appropriate, to enhance climate change-related education, training, public awareness, public participation and public access to information, recognizing the importance of these steps to enhance actions under the Paris Agreement. In 2016, the 4th annual dialogue on ACE was held in Bonn and the intermediate review of the Doha Work Programme was completed. The final review of the Doha Work Programme will be carried out in 2020. \nThe 5th annual dialogue on ACE was held in Bonn on the 15 and 16 May with the topics 'education', 'training' and 'international cooperation'.\n\nACE addresses all six priority areas of Article 6: education, training, public awareness, public access to information, public participation, international cooperation. Education enables people to understand the causes and consequences of climate change, to make informed decisions and to take appropriate actions to address climate change. Training provides the technical skills and advanced knowledge needed to support the transition to green economies and sustainable, climate-resilient societies. Successful public awareness campaigns engage communities and individuals in the common effort needed to carry out national and international climate change policies. Ensuring public participation in decision-making and public access to information provides people with the tools and opportunities they need to play a more active role. These elements can all be strengthened through international cooperation. Governments and organizations can support each other with resources, ideas and inspiration for developing climate action programmes.\n\nSection B (14) of the Doha Work Programme provides guiding principles on the approach to and characteristics of ACE activities. While all 9 points listed in Section B (14) are important, it is pertinent to emphasize (d), adopting a gender and intergenerational approach.\n\nA gender approach means ensuring that climate actions are gender-responsive and promote women’s participation in decision-making. While women make up approximately 50% of the world population, in many countries women are less able to cope with – and are more exposed to – the adverse effects of climate change because they have lesser economic, political and legal clout. Therefore, supporting women’s empowerment and drawing on their experiences, knowledge and skills will make climate change responses more effective.\n\nIntergenerational refers to engaging people of all ages in finding solutions for climate change, taking into special consideration the vulnerabilities of youth and the elderly, who have a reduced capacity to cope independently. Future generations are likely to be the most vulnerable to the impacts of climate change, yet they are also the least represented in current decisions on climate action. At the same time, the world population is ageing very quickly. By 2050 approximately 1 in 5 people will be over the age of 60; the number of those aged 80 and older is expected to quadruple. In addition to youth and the elderly, other vulnerable people such as women and traditionally marginalized groups (such as indigenous peoples, ethnic minorities and people with disabilities) have limited capacity to engage in policy-making, and risk being overlooked if their needs are not explicitly included in planning. Formal decision-making structures strive to ensure the participation of those most vulnerable and least represented, recognizing that specialized efforts need to be invested in engaging vulnerable communities.\n\nAt the United Nations Sustainable Development Summit on 25 September 2015, world leaders adopted the 2030 Agenda for Sustainable Development, which includes a set of 17 Sustainable Development Goals (SDGs) and 169 associated targets to end poverty, inequality and injustice, and tackle climate change by 2030. The SDGs build on the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs), eight anti-poverty targets that the world committed to achieving by 2015. The new SDGs, and the broader sustainability agenda, go much further than the MDGs. Three of the 17 goals and two associated targets have particular relevance for ACE: \n\nThe UN Decade of Education for Sustainable Development took place from 2005 to 2014, with the goal of emphasizing education in all its forms (formal, non-formal and informal) as an indispensable element for achieving sustainable development. In November 2014, as the official follow-up to the DESD, UNESCO launched the Global Action Programme (GAP) for ESD with the overall objective to scale up action on ESD worldwide. Due to its strong linkages with sustainable development, the GAP on ESD provides an excellent framework for understanding the types of education, training and public awareness initiatives conducive to enabling people of all ages to understand and implement solutions for solving the complex problems presented by climate change.\n\nThe Convention on Access to Information, Public Participation in Decision-making and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters (Aarhus Convention) provides the main international framework regulating such matters. The Aarhus Convention grants public rights and imposes obligations on governmental authorities regarding, inter alia, public participation in environmental decision-making. In 2015, the Maastricht Recommendations on Promoting Effective Public Participation in Decision-making in Environmental Matters were published as a practical tool to improve public participation in environmental decision-making, including good practice recommendations.\n\nIn order to catalyze and accelerate action to implement Principle 10 of the Rio Declaration, governments adopted the Guidelines for the Development of National Legislation on Access to Information, Public Participation and Access to Justice in Environmental Matters at the 11th Special Session of the UNEP Governing Council/ Global Ministerial Environmental Forum in Bali, Indonesia. These voluntary guidelines demonstrate a willingness by governments to engage the public more thoroughly at all levels to protect and manage the environment and related resources.\n\n"}
{"id": "50211648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50211648", "title": "Ahdname of Milodraž", "text": "Ahdname of Milodraž\n\nThe Ahdname of Milodraž (/Милодрашка ахднама), also called the Ahdname of Fojnica (Фојничка ахднама/\"Fojnička ahdnama\"), was the \"ahdname\" issued on 28 May 1463 (or 1464) by the Ottoman sultan Mehmed the Conqueror to Bosnian Franciscans, represented by Anđeo Zvizdović.\n\nAccording to Bosnian Franciscan tradition, Mehmed was preparing to depart following the Ottoman conquest of Bosnia when Anđeo Zvizdović came to meet him in the Ottoman military camp in Milodraž. Led in by Mehmed's soldiers, Zvizdović drew the Sultan's attention to the exodus of Catholics from the newly conquered country. The friar specifically pointed to the necessity of maintaining the merchants, craftsmen and miners, and so succeeded in receiving Mehmed's solemn promise of religious tolerance. The Franciscans of Bosna Argentina recognized Mehmed as their sovereign, and in return he promised that \"the Bosnian priests shall have freedom and protection, and may return to and settle the lands in the Empire in their monasteries without consternation. No-one is to attack them, nor threaten their lives, property or churches.\" Its form and content, as well as Mehmed's personal oath, resemble that of an international treaty.\n\nThe rights expressed in the Ahdname of Milodraž were reiterated by all subsequent Ottoman sultans, but the Franciscans were nevertheless in a difficult position with the local authorities. Although they were loyal to the Ottoman regime, the local government often suspected them of aiding the Catholic Habsburg Empire, the Ottoman Empire's greatest enemy. Bosnian Franciscans used the Ahdname of Milodraž not only in relations with the Muslim authorities, but also to protect themselves from the ambitions of Eastern Orthodox clergy when the latter claimed the right to collect tax from them too on the basis of an earlier \"firman\". The Ahdname of Milodraž is often said to have enabled the survival of Roman Catholicism in Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nThe Ahdname of Milodraž has been preserved in transcripts; an \"ahdname\" was likely also issued to the Franciscans of Srebrenica in 1462, but it has been entirely lost. The absence of the original document led some historians to describe the Ahdname of Milodraž as a forgery. Its historicity was only confirmed in the mid-20th century.\n"}
{"id": "13522643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13522643", "title": "Amount realized", "text": "Amount realized\n\nAmount realized, in US federal income tax law, is defined by section 1001(b) of Internal Revenue Code. It is one of two variables in the formula used to compute gains and losses to determine gross income for income tax purposes. The excess of the amount realized over the adjusted basis is the amount of realized gain (if positive) or realized loss (if negative).\n\nComputation of gain and loss is governed by section 1001(a) of the Code.\n\nSection 1001(b) defines the amount realized as \"the sum of any money received plus the fair market value of the property (other than money) received.\" Generally, it is the value of what the taxpayer receives in the exchange.\n\nTo have an \"amount realized\" there must be a kind of exchange, known as a \"realization event.\" The first step in calculating the amount realized is determining when an exchange that qualifies as a \"realization event\" has occurred. Section 1001 requires that it be an exchange through which the taxpayer receives money or other property. In \"Helvering v. Bruun\", the United States Supreme Court has held that a \"[g]ain may occur as a result of exchange of property, payment of the taxpayer's indebtedness, relief from a liability, or other profit realized from the completion of a transaction.\" More clearly, the Supreme Court lists four events that trigger realization of gain or loss: 1) a property exchange, 2) relief of a legal obligation owed to a third party, 3) relief of a legal obligation owed to the party receiving property, or 4) other profit transactions.\n\nA good illustration for determining realization for income tax purposes is stock. For example, at the beginning of the taxable year, Sally buys stock in XYZ Corp. for $10 per share. By the end of the taxable year, Sally's stock in XYZ Corp. is worth $20 a share. Would Sally have to report the appreciation in her stock as taxable income? Because Sally has not sold her stock (or otherwise exchanged it), she has not realized the stock's appreciation. If Sally had sold the stock in XYZ Corp. at $20 per share, the sale would be a realization event, and Sally would recognize income (in this case, a gain). Realization would also occur if Sally exchanged her stock for a new car or for a certain amount of services.\n\nIn a transaction where property is exchanged for other property, no realization event occurs where this is no legal distinction between the exchanged properties. According to the Supreme Court in \"Cottage Savings\",\n[u]nder our interpretation of § 1001(a), an exchange of property gives rise to a realization event so long as the exchanged properties are \"materially different: they embody legally distinct entitlements.\nThe facts in \"Cottage Savings\" present an example of realization occurring when property is exchanged for property. Cottage Savings Association (CSA) sold interest in home mortgages to four savings and loans associations. At the same time, CSA bought interest in mortgages held by the same four savings and loans associations. \"The fair market value of the package of participation interests exchanged by each side was approximately $4.5 million.\" (Essentially, CSA and the four savings and loans associations exchanged $4.5 million worth of mortgage interests.) The Supreme Court held that a realization event under § 1001 had occurred:\n\n To suggest that Congress could tax unrealized gain is not to suggest Congress intends to do so. The realization requirement is a pervasive, popularly supported aspect of our tax system, and there is no indication Congress is about to reverse course in this regard.\nAccording to Burke and Friel, there are policy arguments to be made for and against taxing appreciation. If Congress chose to tax appreciation, taxpayers' tax income would likely match their economic income: \"it would thus tend to place on the same tax footing persons who are economically similarly situated.\" However, the current system allows the IRS a degree of \"administrative convenience.\" Moreover, it is arguably unfair to treat unrealized gains as income if the taxpayer may not have the appropriate funds to cover the tax liability, presumably forcing the taxpayer to sell the asset in question simply to pay the tax resulting from it. In the end, economic gain will be taxed. \"Realization is fundamentally a matter of timing... [t]he unrealized total gain, of course, may fluctuate from time to time as the property's value changes, but that total will be treated as income only on realization. To describe realization as a matter of timing should, nonetheless, not be seen as a dismissive comment. In taxes, as in life, timing can be everything...\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3451045", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3451045", "title": "Arbitration clause", "text": "Arbitration clause\n\nAn arbitration clause is a clause in a contract that requires the parties to resolve their disputes through an arbitration process. Although such a clause may or may not specify that arbitration occur within a specific jurisdiction, it always binds the parties to a type of resolution outside the courts, and is therefore considered a kind of forum selection clause.\n\nIn the United States, the federal government has expressed a policy of support of arbitration clauses, because they reduce the burden on court systems to resolve disputes. This support is found in the Federal Arbitration Act, which permits compulsory and binding arbitration, under which parties give up the right to appeal an arbitrator's decision to a court. In \"Prima Paint Corp. v. Flood & Conklin Mfg. Co.\", the U.S. Supreme Court established the \"separability principle\", under which enforceability of a contract must be challenged in arbitration before any court action, unless the arbitration clause itself has been challenged.\n\nSome jurisdictions exclude or restrict the possibility of arbitration for reasons of the protection of weaker members of the public, e.g. consumers. For example, German law excludes disputes over the rental of living space from any form of arbitration, while arbitration agreements with consumers are only considered valid if they are signed, and if the signed document does not bear any other content than the arbitration agreement.\n\nMandatory arbitration clauses are widespread but not universal in the United States. For example, they are used by Amazon.com, 15 of the largest 20 U.S. credit card issuers, and 7 of the 8 largest cell phone companies, and 2 out of 3 major bike sharing companies in Seattle.\n\nThe American Arbitration Association provides the following template for an arbitration clause:\nAny controversy or claim arising out of or relating to this contract, or the breach thereof, shall be settled by arbitration administered by the American Arbitration Association in accordance with its Commercial [or other] Arbitration Rules, and judgment on the award rendered by the arbitrator(s) may be entered in any court having jurisdiction thereof.\n\nIn keeping with the informality of the arbitration process, the law in England and Wales is generally keen to uphold the validity of arbitration clauses even when they lack the normal formal language associated with legal contracts. Clauses which have been upheld include:\n\nThe courts have also upheld clauses which specify resolution of disputes other than in accordance with a specific legal system. These include provision indicating:\n\nA number of international arbitration bodies provide sample arbitration clauses for parties to use. Examples of these are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1298976", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1298976", "title": "Asbestos and the law", "text": "Asbestos and the law\n\nLitigation related to asbestos injuries and property damages has been claimed to be the longest-running mass tort in U.S. history. Since asbestos-related disease has been identified by the medical profession in the late 1920s, workers' compensation cases were filed and resolved in secrecy, with a flood of litigation starting in the United States in the 1970s, and culminating in the 1980s and 1990s. A massive multi-district litigation (MDL) complex filing has remained pending in the Eastern District of Pennsylvania for over 20 years. As many of the scarring-related injury cases have been resolved, asbestos litigation continues to be hard-fought among the litigants, mainly in individually brought cases for terminal cases of asbestosis, mesothelioma, and other cancers.\n\nIn the late 19th century and early 20th century, asbestos was considered an ideal material for use in the construction industry. It was known to be an excellent fire retardant, to have high electrical resistance, and was inexpensive and easy to use.\n\nThe dangers related to asbestos arise mainly when the fibers become airborne and are inhaled. Because of the size of the fibers, the lungs cannot expel them. These fibers are also sharp and penetrate internal tissues.\n\nHealth problems attributed to asbestos include:\n\n\nConsiderable international controversy exists regarding the perceived rights and wrongs associated with litigation on compensation claims related to asbestos exposure and alleged subsequent medical consequences. Some measure of the vast range of views expressed in legal and political circles can perhaps be exemplified by the two quotes below, the first from Prof. Lester Brickman, an American legal ethicist writing in the \"Pepperdine Law Review\", and second, Michael Wills, a British Member of Parliament, speaking in the House of Commons on July 13. 2006:\n\n\"A review of the scholarly literature indicates a substantial degree of indifference to the causes of this civil justice system failure. Many of the published articles on asbestos litigation focus on transactional costs and ways in which the flow of money from defendants to plaintiffs and their lawyers can be expeditiously and efficiently prioritized and routed. The failure to acknowledge, let alone analyze, the overriding reality of specious claiming and meritless claims demonstrates a disconnect between the scholarship and the reality of the litigation that is nearly as wide as the disconnect between rates of disease claiming and actual disease manifestation\".\n\n\"Many of those who I see in my surgeries have worked in a number of workplaces and they could have been exposed to asbestos in each of them, but medical science is such that no one can identify which of them it is. As a result, there has been a long and complex history of legal discussion on how to apportion liability. The lawyers and the judiciary have wrestled, rightly and valiantly, with complex and difficult law, but it has created despair for the families whom we represent. Many of my constituents’ families have been riven by the consequences of litigation in trying to get some compensation for a disease that has been contracted through no fault of theirs. That is cruel and unacceptable.\"\n\nWorldwide, 60 countries (including those in the European Union) have banned the use of asbestos, in whole or in part. Some examples follow.\n\nAsbestos is listed as a category of controlled waste under Annex I of the Basel Convention on the Control of Transboundary Movements of Hazardous Wastes and their Disposal [1992]. Specifically, any waste streams having asbestos (dust and fibres) as constituents are controlled (Item Y36). In general terms, Parties to the Convention are required to prohibit and not permit the export of hazardous wastes to the Parties which have prohibited the import of such wastes via the notification procedure in Article 13 of the Convention.\n\nA nationwide ban on importing and using all forms asbestos took effect on 31 December 2003. Reflecting the ban, the National Occupational Health and Safety Commission (NOHSC) revised asbestos-related material to promote a consistent approach to controlling exposure to workplace asbestos and to introduce best-practice health and safety measures for asbestos management, control and removal. The ban does not cover asbestos materials or products already in use at the time the ban was implemented.\n\nAlthough Australia has only a third of the UK's population, its asbestos disease fatalities approximate Britain's of more than 3,000 people per year.\n\nWestern Australia' center of blue asbestos mining was Wittenoom. The mine was run by CSR Limited (a company that had been the Colonial Sugar Refinery). The main manufacturer of asbestos products was James Hardie, which set up a minor fund for its workers, then transferred operations to the Netherlands where it would be out of reach of the workers when the fund expired.\n\nThe São Paulo State law 12.684/07 prohibits the use of any product which utilizes asbestos. This legislation has been formally upheld by the Brazilian Supremo Tribunal Federal.\n\nSince the 1980s, Canada has not permitted crocidolite asbestos to be used and has had limitations on certain uses of other types of asbestos, notably in some construction materials and textiles.\n\nIn late 2011, Canada's remaining two asbestos mines, both located in the Province of Quebec, halted operations. The following year, Quebec's government announced a halt to asbestos mining and the federal government announced that it would end its opposition to adding chrysotile asbestos to the list of hazardous substances under the international Rotterdam Convention. \n\nIn 2018, the Canadian federal government posted proposed regulations planned for implementation later that year, which would prohibit use, sale, import, and export of all forms of asbestos.\n\nFrance banned the use of asbestos in 1997, and the WTO upheld France's right to the ban in 2000. In addition, France has called for a worldwide ban.\n\nThe import, shipment, supply of, and use of all forms of asbestos is banned in Hong Kong under the Air Pollution Control (Amendment) Ordinance 2014.\n\nBefore the 1980s, use of the material was common in construction, manufacturing, and shipping. The government banned the use of \"most asbestos products\" in public areas in 1978. The Factories and Industrial Undertakings (Asbestos) Special Regulation (Cap. 59X), which came into force in 1986, and the subsequent Factories and Industrial Undertakings (Asbestos) Regulation (Cap. 59AD) implemented controls on the use of asbestos in the workplace and banned the use of amphibole asbestos completely.\n\nThe import of amosite or crocidolite to Hong Kong was banned in 1996 by the Air Pollution Control Ordinance (Cap. 311). On 4 April 2014, the Air Pollution Control (Amendment) Ordinance 2014 came into force, completely banning the \"import, transhipment, supply and use of all forms of asbestos and asbestos containing materials\" in Hong Kong.\n\nThe Vision Statement of the Environment and Human Health of The Government of India clearly states \"\"Alternatives to asbestos may be used to the extent possible and use of asbestos may be phased out.\"\n\nIn Case No.693/30/97-98, National Human Rights Commission (NHRC) has clearly directed to “\"Replace all asbestos sheets roofing with roofing made up of some other material that would not be harmful to inmates\".”\n\nThe Secretary of the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education & Research (PGIMER, Chandigarh also voiced its opinion “\"Asbestos is definitely a harmful material, it causes cancer and other related diseases\".” In their complete statement and recommendation to NHRC they have clearly expressed their concern: “\"White Asbestos (Chrysotile Asbestos) is implicated in so many studies with the following diseases:-Mesothelioma (Cancer of Pleura), Lung Cancer, Peritoneal Cancer, Asbestosis, and is also considered as a cause for Ovarian Cancer, Laryngeal Cancer, Other Cancererous Diseases are produced in the person involved in Asbestos Industry\".” It concludes its position by specifying, “\"Hence, Use of White Asbestos should be completely banned in India and the same may be replaced by some safer alternative material\".”\n\nThe Joint Secretary, Government of Uttarakhand in Case No.2951/30/0/2011, submitted to the NHRC that “\"There is no cure for Asbestos Diseases. Stopping all exposure to Asbestos is only essential.\"”\n\nThe Union Ministry of Labour’s concept paper declared, \"The Government of India is considering the ban on use of chrysotile asbestos in India to protect the workers and the general population against primary and secondary exposure to Chrysotile form of Asbestos.\" The Concept paper further notes, \"Asbestosis is yet another occupational disease of the Lungs which is on an increase under similar circumstances warranting concentrated efforts of all stake holders to evolve strategies to curb this menace\"\".\n\nThe Indian Factory Act and Bureau of Indian Standard already have rules and regulations for safe usage of asbestos contaminated products such as:\n\nHowever, there is no enforcement of the rules at ground level, hence asbestos usage is prevalent without following even the simplest basic safety rules.\n\nThe Centre for Pollution Control Board (CPCB) struggles to enforce their own guidelines for Asbestos as Hazardous Waste and relies on Industries and Companies to volunteer themselves to follow Safety Regulations. \nThere continues to be a high usage of friable or dust based asbestos in Compressed Asbestos Fibre (CAF) Gaskets, Ropes, Cloth, Gland Packings, Millboards, Insulation and Brake Liners in Factories and Industries within India as well as inadvertently exported by Equipment Manufacturers without adequate knowledge and information to the other countries.\n\nOn 21 January 2011, the Supreme Court of India banned the usage of asbestos in India.\n\nIn spite of the health hazards, asbestos is widely used in India without any restriction. Activists in India and abroad have tried to persuade the governments of Canada and Quebec to stop asbestos mining in Quebec and Exporting to India. The Canadian government has repeatedly blocked asbestos being listed as a hazardous chemical by the UN even though it spends massive amounts of money to remove it from Canadian homes and offices. While India recognizes it as a hazardous substance and has banned asbestos mining and its waste trade, it keeps its price low through patronage.\n\nOn 15 August 2016, in the strongest statement till date, the Hon Mr. Anil Madhav Dave, Union Minister of Environment, Forest & Climate Change categorically specified “\"Since the use of asbestos is affecting human health, its usage should gradually be minimised and ended. As far as I know, its use is declining, but it must end\"” \n\nThe Ban Asbestos Network of India (BANI) has been working towards an Asbestos Free India to safeguard the health of the present and future generations amidst the misinformation campaign of the White Chrysotile Industry.\n\nOn 5th May 2017, India opposed listing of asbestos under the Prior Informed Consent (PIC) list of hazardous substances during the 2017 United Nations Rotterdam Convention. becoming the second Democracy (After Russian Federation) to have such a stand in the world. Besides India, Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Syria, and Zimbabwe also opposed the listing. While, all the other countries opposing are producers of asbestos; India (\"where mining is banned\") is the sole (\"and largest\") consumer and importer of asbestos still opposing its inclusion on the PIC List.\n\nThe National Asbestos Profile of India made in cooperation by Peoples Training and Research Centre, Vadodara, Occupational & Environmental Health Network of India, New Delhi and Asia Monitor Resource Centre, Hong Kong is the first such attempt and resource for identifying total Asbestos usage in India.\n. This extensive profile documents the Manufacturers, Consumers, Health and Disease statistics of Asbestos usage in India till date. An extensive list of companies manufacturing or distributing Cancerous Asbestos Fiber (CAF) Containing Products is also highlighted as part of this Profile.\n\nItaly fully banned the use of asbestos in 1992 with law 257/92 art. 1 and set up a comprehensive plan for asbestos decontamination in industry and housing.\n\nJapan did not fully ban asbestos until 2004. Its government has been held responsible for related diseases.\n\nAsbestos was banned in South Africa in 2008. Prior to this, the country was one of the global leaders in asbestos production, and consequently had one of the highest rates of mesothelioma. Regulations to ban asbestos in South Africa occurred in March 2008 under the leadership of Environmental Affairs and Tourism Minister Marthinus van Schalkwyk. The first draft regulations were announced in November 2005 for public comment and again in September 2007. The regulations prohibited the use, processing, manufacturing, and import and export of any asbestos or asbestos-containing materials (ACMs). A grace period of 120 days was allowed to give people or traders currently dealing in asbestos or ACMs to clear their stock. Exemptions would be granted under strict control. The regulations did not prohibit the continued use of asbestos-containing materials that were already in place such as asbestos-cement roof sheets or ceilings, the department was satisfied that there was “no undue risk” and they would be replaced in due time. Penalties for the continued use of asbestos include a fine which would not exceed R100 000 and/or imprisonment of less than ten years. Prior to the regulations' implementation, asbestos had been in the process of being phased out from as early as 2003. Requests from Zimbabwe and Canada to be excepted from the prohibition were denied. South also terminated all import of asbestos or ACMs from Zimbabwe. South Africa would allow products to pass through its borders while in transit under strict conditions and if registered with the department of Environmental Affairs and Tourism. Everite, a building company, supported the government’s ban on imports from Zimbabwe It became an offence to acquire, process, package or repackage, manufacture or distribute these products from after July 28, 2008. Kgalagadi Relief Trust (KRT) chair Brian Gibson stated that asbestos may still be imported into South Africa for research or analysis. Asbestos may also be imported into the country for disposal from Southern African Development Community (SADC) countries that were unable to dispose of the waste themselves.\n\nIn May 1997, the manufacture and use of crocidolite and amosite, commonly known as blue and brown asbestos, were fully banned in South Korea. In January 2009, a full-fledged ban on all types of asbestos occurred when the government banned the manufacture, import, sale, storage, transport or use of asbestos or any substance containing more than 0.1% of asbestos. In 2011, South Korea became the world's sixth country to enact an asbestos harm aid act, which entitles any Korean citizen to free lifetime medical care as well as monthly income from the government if he or she is diagnosed with an asbestos-related disease.\n\nIn 1984, the import of raw amphibole (blue and brown) asbestos into New Zealand was banned. In 2002, the import of chrysotile (white) asbestos was banned.\n\nThe British Government's Health and Safety Executive (HSE) has promoted rigorous controls on asbestos handling, based on reports linking exposure to asbestos dust or fibres with thousands of annual deaths from mesothelioma and asbestos-related lung cancer.\n\nThe HSE does not assume that any minimum threshold exists for exposure to asbestos below which a person is at zero risk of developing mesothelioma, since they consider that it cannot currently be quantified for practical purposes; they cite evidence from epidemiological studies of asbestos exposed groups to argue that even if any such threshold for mesothelioma does exist, it must be at a very low level.\n\nPreviously it was possible to claim compensation for pleural plaques caused by negligent exposure to asbestos, on the grounds that although it is in itself asymptomatic, it is linked to development of diffuse pleural thickening, which causes lung impairment. It has been highly contentious, however, as to the probability of pleural plaques developing into pleural thickening or other asbestos-related illnesses. On October 17, 2007 this point was clarified by the Law Lords' ruling that workers who have pleural plaques as a result of asbestos exposure will no longer be able to seek compensation as it does not in itself constitute a disease. This ruling was, however, superseded, so far as sufferers of pleural plaques in Scotland are concerned, by the passing of the Damages (Asbestos-related Conditions)(Scotland) Act 2009, which provides that in Scots law pleural plaques are to be considered an actionable type of personal injury.\n\nThe Control of Asbestos Regulations were introduced in the UK in November 2006 and are an amalgamation of three previous sets of legislation (Asbestos Prohibition, Asbestos Licensing and the Control of Asbestos at Work Regulations) aimed at minimising the use and disturbance of asbestos containing materials within British workplaces. Essentially this legislation bans the import and use of most asbestos products and sets out guidelines on how best to manage those currently in situ.\n\nDutyholders of all non-domestic properties within the UK must establish an asbestos register and a management plan. The definition of \"non-domestic\" is \"a property or structure (commercial, domestic or residential) where work is carried out\" the obligation of the dutyholder is that such operatives are not exposed to any asbestos-based materials during the course of the work, the Asbestos Register states the presence or non-presence of asbestos related to the inside and outside of the structure. The exception is where the property age (post-1999 when chrysotile asbestos was banned) would indicate that such products will not have been used during the construction of the building.\n\nThe removal of high-risk asbestos products from non-domestic properties is tightly controlled by the HSE and high-risk products such as thermal insulation must be removed under controlled conditions by licensed contractors. Further guidance on which products this applies to can be found on the HSE website along with a list of licensees.\n\nThe Control of Asbestos Regulations were amended and came into force on 6 April 2012 to take account of the European Commission's view that the UK had not fully implemented the EU Directive on exposure to asbestos (Directive 2009/148/EC). These changes were relatively minor and included additional requirements for non-licensed asbestos work. These changes mean that some non-licensed asbestos work now requires notification, and has additional requirements for managing this work (e.g. record keeping and health surveillance).\n\nAccording to the Environmental Working Group Action Fund, 10,000 people die each year from asbestos-caused diseases in the United States, including one out of every 125 American men who die over the age of 50. The Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) has no general ban on the use of asbestos. However, asbestos was one of the first hazardous air pollutants regulated under Section 112 of the Clean Air Act of 1970, and many applications have been forbidden by the Toxic Substances Control Act (TSCA). The United States has extensive laws regulating the use of asbestos at the federal, state, and local level.\n\nOne of the major issues relating to asbestos in civil procedure is the latency of asbestos-related diseases. Most countries have limitation periods to bar actions that are taken long after the cause of action has lapsed. For example, in Malaysia the time period to file a tort action is six years from the time the tort occurred. Due to several asbestos-related actions, countries such as Australia have amended their laws relating to limitations to accumulate starting from time of discovery rather than time when the cause of action accrued.\n\nThe first employee claims for injury from exposure to asbestos in the workplace were made in 1927, and the first lawsuit against an asbestos manufacturer was filed in 1929. Since then, many lawsuits have been filed. As a result of the litigation, manufacturers sold off subsidiaries, diversified, produced asbestos substitutes, and started asbestos removal businesses.\n\nGuardian Unlimited reported a test-case ruling in 2005, that allowed thousands of workers to be compensated for pleural plaques. Diffuse or localised fibrosis of the pleura, or pleural plaques, is less serious than asbestosis or mesothelioma, but is also considered a disease closely linked to the inhalation of asbestos. However, insurers claimed the plaques are \"simply a marker for asbestos exposure rather than an injury.\" Mr Justice Holland rejected the insurers' arguments, and counsel for workers hailed the decision as a \"victory that puts people before profits.\" However this decision was reversed by the Court of Appeal. On 17 October 2007, the House of Lords confirmed the Court of Appeal's decision. Pleural plaques no longer constitute actionable injury in England, Wales and Northern Ireland. The Scottish government introduced legislation in 2009 to preserve the status of pleural plaques as an actionable injury in Scotland and there are proposals to introduce similar legislation in Northern Ireland.\n\nInsurance companies allege that asbestos litigation has taken too heavy a toll on insurance and industry. A 2002 article in the British \"Daily Telegraph\"'s associate quoted Equitas, the reinsurance vehicle which assumed Lloyd's of London's liabilities, which argued that asbestos claims were the \"greatest single threat\" to Lloyd's of London's existence. Of note is that Lloyd's of London had been sued for fraud by its investors, who claimed Lloyd's misrepresented pending losses from asbestos claims.\n\nIn May 2006, the House of Lords ruled that compensation for asbestos injuries should be reduced where responsibility could not be attached to a single employer. Critics, including trade unions, asbestos groups and Jim Wallace, former justice minister, have condemned the ruling. They said it overturned the traditional Scottish law to such cases, and was a breach of natural justice. As a result of this outcry, the ruling has been overturned by section three of the Compensation Act 2006.\n\nIn February 2010 a court ruling set a new precedent for asbestosis claims. The case, in which widow Della Sabin attempted to claim compensation following her husband's death from asbestosis, hinged on the issue of how many asbestos fibres must be present in the lungs for a claim to be valid. A research team based at Llandough Hospital initially reported that the minimum amount of fibres that needed to be present for a claim to be valid was 20 million (only 7 million were found in the sample taken from Mrs Sabin's husband Leslie). However, a subsequent US study suggested that, due to the fact that Leslie had lived for more than forty years after his exposure, a large number of fibres would have cleared from his body naturally; had he died twenty years earlier the asbestos count in his lungs would have been about 35 million fibres per gram. The judge preferred this evidence, and ruled in favour of Mrs Sabin.\n\nIn June 2008, the Brazilian Supremo Tribunal Federal (STF), voted to maintain the law (12.684/07) which prohibits the use of any product which utilizes asbestos in São Paulo State. It is expected that the decision will be extended to include the whole country.\n\nLubbe v Cape plc -The Lubbe v Cape Plc case [2000] UKHL 41 is a conflict of laws case, which is also highly significant for the question of lifting the corporate veil in relation to tort victims.\n\nThe Richard Meeran-run Cape Plc case was settled in 2003\n\nThe Richard Spoor-run Gencor case was settled in 2003\n\n400 Swaziland ARD victims from the Havelock \nThe Havelock chrysotile mine cases were suspended in 2003 because Turner and Newall, the company that owned the mine, had filed for bankruptcy in 2001. \nSwiss Eternit Group\nThis was a voluntary agreement which was reached in 2006. The agreement enabled ex-miners of the Kuruman and Danielskuil Cape Blue Asbestos (KCBA and DCBA) mines in the Northern Cape province to apply under similar conditions as the open settlement of the ART. The Kgalagadi Relief Trust (KRT) was\nthus created. The terms of the trust are not clarified however in practice R136 million was paid over for compensation purposes, for payouts until 2026. The trustees of the KRT requested the ART to administer the KRT settlement as the two trusts were very similarly structured.\n\nSeventy-five percent of the claimants in the Cape Plc case came from Limpopo province and the remaining twenty-five percent from the Prieska Koegas area in the Northern Cape province. The majority of the claimants in the ART settlement (around 78%) were exposed in the Kuruman area in the Northern Cape province, with the balance exposed at Penge in Limpopo province and Msauli in Mpumalanga province, which were equally proportioned.\n\nStatistically, mesothelioma and asbestos related lung cancer sufferers receiving the highest payments of R71 500 each. \nDue to Gencor's significant contribution settlements, it was prohibited for those who had received compensation under the Cape agreement to later be paid by the ART, even if the worker had worked on the\nKuruman or Penge mines when under Gencor control.\n\nIn 2006, Cape plc started a trust to compensate those who have suffered from asbestos related diseases as a result of Cape’s historical activities. To date, this Trust has paid out over £30m to those who have become sick or to their dependents. The Scheme of Arrangement was approved by the High Court and is separately funded. Its funds being administered by two independent trustees.\n\nAsbestos Relief Trust (ART) is regarded as a model of efficient occupational disease compensation in South Africa. Gencor was a major contributor to the Richard Meeran-run Cape Plc case and the Richard Spoor-run Gencor case. Glencor provided 29% of the R138 million that went to the Cape Plc’s set of claimants, and 96% of the R381 million that formed the ART. An additional sum of R35 million went to environmental rehabilitation, and about R20 million was added to the ART to contribute to supplementary and additional payments. After some time and publicity claims against The Cape Plc list had grown from 2 000 in January 1999 and to 7 500 in August 2001. The ART settlement was open, and made provision for compensation to any person who met the compensation criteria set out in the Trust deed, until the year 2028. Many companies agreed to compensate the workers which were exposed to asbestos in addition to the compensation payable under the Occupational Diseases in Mines and Works Act (ODMWA) The settlement included environmentally expose victims of ARDS. This settlement model was achieved by personal communication, Georgina Jephson, attorney at Richard Spoor Inc. Attorneys.\n\nThe Trust provides compensation for people in these four categories related to Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARD) namely:\n\n\nA model by the ART estimated that about 16 800 individuals would submit claims to the Trust, of which approximately 5 036 (30%) would be successful. This was subsequently revised to 5 162. Of these, 219 (4.2%) would be environmental claimants, 150 (2.9%) would have lung cancer and 556 (10.8%) would have mesothelioma; the balance would have asbestosis and/or pleural thickening. No definitive figures were provided for the expected ARD1/\nARD2 ratio. The\namounts payable for compensation vary, but the average amount of compensation since 2003 has been about R40 000, R80 000, R170 000 and R350 000 for each of the categories ARD 1-4 described above. These amounts are paid over and above any compensation that the claimants might receive under the ODMWA. In order for a case to be compensable, a victim needs to show that he/she was both exposed to asbestos from one of the operations run by the funders of the ART, and has a compensable disease.\n\nA lack of facilities for terminally ill mesothelioma sufferers results in a larger burden of service, according to Sister Phemelo Magabanyane, a palliative care nurse who has cared for over 100 mesothelioma and lung cancer sufferers in the greater Kuruman district in the Northern Cape. Mesothelioma is a life-threatening cancer of the pleura or peritoneum which can be diagnosed up to 40 years after exposure to asbestos.\nSouth Africa has the highest prevalence of mesothelioma in the world. Richard Spoor, a lawyer who represented the claimants against Gencor says,:“The environmental scale of the disaster we are seeing unfold in the Northern Cape is on a level with the nuclear disaster at Chernobyl, in terms of impact, spread and longevity,” he also says that children are particularly vulnerable to mesothelioma. Since September 2016, five of the 1 600 claimants he represents in the Northern Cape have died. Internationally renowned photographer David Goldblatt started photographing victims after a friend died of mesothelioma despite never being in close proximity to a mine. It has been reported that she picked up the disease from rubbing a blue asbestos rock ornament that she kept in her home.\n\nAsbestos litigation is the longest, most expensive mass tort in U.S. history, involving more than 8,000 defendants and 700,000 claimants. Current trends indicate that the rate at which people are diagnosed with the disease will likely increase through the next decade. Analysts have estimated that the total costs of asbestos litigation in the USA alone will eventually reach $200 to $275 billion. The amounts and method of allocating compensation have been the source of many court cases, and government attempts at resolution of existing and future cases.\n\nIn June 1982, a retired boilermaker, James Cavett, won a record award of $2.3 million compensatory and $1.5 million in punitive damages against Johns-Manville. The Manville Corporation, formerly the Johns-Manville Corporation, filed for reorganization and protection under the United States Bankruptcy Code in August 1982. At the time, it was the largest company ever to file bankruptcy, and was one of the richest. Manville was then 181st on the Fortune 500, but was the defendant of 16,500 lawsuits related to the health effects of asbestos. The company was described by Ron Motley, a South Carolina attorney, as \"the greatest corporate mass murderer in history.\" Court documents show that the corporation had a long history of hiding evidence of the ill effects of asbestos from its workers and the public. One of many examples is a memo from Manville's medical director to corporate headquarters:\n\nBy the early 1990s, \"more than half of the 25 largest asbestos manufacturers in the US, including Amatex, Carey-Canada, Celotex, Eagle-Picher, Forty-Eight Insulations, Manville Corporation, National Gypsum, Standard Insulation, Unarco, and UNR Industries had declared bankruptcy. Filing for bankruptcy protects a company from its creditors.\"\n\nAsbestos-related cases increased significantly on the U.S. Supreme Court docket after 1980. The court has dealt with several asbestos-related cases since 1986. Two large class action settlements, designed to limit liability, came before the court in 1997 and 1999. Both settlements were ultimately rejected by the court because they would exclude future claimants, or those who later developed asbestos-related illnesses. These rulings addressed the 20-50 year latency period of serious asbestos-related illnesses.\n\nIn 1988, the United States Environmental Protection Agency (USEPA) issued regulations requiring certain U.S. companies to report the asbestos used in their products.\n\nSeveral legislative remedies have been considered by the U.S. Congress but each time rejected for a variety of reasons. In 2005, Congress considered but did not pass legislation entitled the \"Fairness in Asbestos Injury Resolution Act of 2005\". The act would have established a $140 billion trust fund in lieu of litigation, but as it would have proactively taken funds held in reserve by bankruptcy trusts, manufacturers and insurance companies, it was not widely supported either by victims or corporations.\n\nOn April 26, 2005, Dr. Philip J. Landrigan, professor and chair of the Department of Community and Preventive Medicine at Mount Sinai Medical Center in New York City, testified before the US Senate Committee on the Judiciary against this proposed legislation. He testified that many of the bill's provisions were unsupported by medicine and would unfairly exclude a large number of people who had become ill or died from asbestos: \"The approach to the diagnosis of disease caused by asbestos that is set forth in this bill is not consistent with the diagnostic criteria established by the American Thoracic Society. If the bill is to deliver on its promise of fairness, these criteria will need to be revised.\" Also opposing the bill were the American Public Health Association and the Asbestos Workers' Union.\n\nOn June 14, 2006, the Senate Judiciary Committee approved an amendment to the act which would have allowed victims of mesothelioma $1.1M within 30 days of their claim's approval. This version would have also expanded eligible claimants to people exposed to asbestos from the September 11, 2001 attacks on the World Trade Center, and to construction debris in hurricanes Katrina and Rita. Ultimately, the bill's reliance on funding from private entities large and small, as well as debate over a sunset provision and the impact on the U.S. budgetary process caused the bill to fail to leave committee.\n\nSince the bankruptcy filing of Johns-Manville in 1984, many U.S. and U.K. asbestos manufacturers have escaped litigation by filing bankruptcy. Once in bankruptcy, these companies typically are required to fund special \"bankruptcy trusts\" that pay pennies on the dollar to injured parties. However, these trusts do permit larger numbers of claimants to receive some kind of compensation, even if greatly reduced from potential recoveries in the tort system.\n\nSince 2002, asbestos lawsuits in the U.S. have included the following as defendants: (1) manufacturers of machinery that are alleged to have required asbestos-containing parts to function properly; (2) owners of premises at which asbestos-containing products were installed (which includes virtually anyone who owned a building prior to 1980); (3) banks that financed ships or buildings where asbestos was installed (on the grounds that no rational lender would take a security interest in an asset without studying the risks involved); (4) retailers of asbestos-containing products (including hardware, home improvement and automotive parts stores); (5) corporations that allegedly conspired with asbestos manufacturers to deliberately conceal the dangers of asbestos (e.g., MetLife, a well-known insurance company which worked with Johns-Manville); (6) manufacturers of tools which were used to cut or shape asbestos-containing parts; and (7) manufacturers of respiratory protective equipment.\n\nDefendants in the first category have contested liability on the grounds that nearly all of them either did not ship asbestos-containing parts with their products at all (that is, asbestos was installed only by end users) or did not sell replacement parts for their own products (in cases where the plaintiff was allegedly exposed well after any factory-original asbestos-containing parts would have been replaced), and either way cannot be responsible for toxic third-party parts that they did not manufacture, distribute, or sell. In 2008, the Washington Supreme Court, the first to reach the issue, decided in favor of the defense. On January 12, 2012, the Supreme Court of California also decided in favor of the defense in \"O'Neil v. Crane Co.\" This is significant as a 2007 study found that California and Washington were the two most influential state supreme courts in the United States in the period from 1940 to 2005.\n\nIn a decision from January 2014, Gray v. Garlock Sealing Technologies had entered into bankruptcy proceedings, and discovery in the case uncovered evidence of fraud that led to a reduction in estimated future liability to a tenth of what was estimated.\n\nAnother area of dispute remains the so-called chrysotile-defense. Manufacturers of some products containing only chrysotile fibers claim that these are not as harmful as amphibole-containing products. As 95% of the products used in the United States historically were mostly chrysotile, this claim is widely disputed by health officials and medical professionals. The World Health Organization recognizes that exposure to all types of asbestos fibers, including chrysotile, can cause cancer of the lung, larynx, and ovary, mesothelioma, and asbestosis.\n\nOn February 20, 1973 a federal grand jury in Detroit, Michigan indicted Adamo Wrecking Company (\"Adamo\") for violating provisions of the Clean Air Act by knowingly causing the emission of asbestos by failure to wet and remove friable asbestos materials from demolitions.\n\nAdamo was one of a number of demolition contractors indicted throughout the country for the alleged violation of the Clean Air Act. The United States District Court for the Eastern District of Michigan dismissed the criminal indictment on the ground that it was not an \"emission standard,\" but a \"work practice standard,\" which under the terms of the statute, did not carry criminal liability.\n\nThe government appealed and the Sixth Circuit Court of Appeals reversed the decision of the trial court, stating that it erred in determining that it had jurisdiction to review the validity of the standard in a criminal proceeding. Adamo's attorneys appealed to the Supreme Court.\n\nOn January 10, 1978, the Supreme Court ruled in favor of Adamo when it held that the trial court did have jurisdiction to review the standard in a criminal proceeding and also agreed with the trial court that the requirements in the act were \"not standards\" but \"procedures\" and therefore the proceedings were properly dismissed.\n\nA federal grand jury indicted W. R. Grace and Company and seven top executives on February 5, 2005, for its operations of a vermiculite mine in Libby, Montana. The indictment accused Grace of wire fraud, knowing endangerment of residents by concealing air monitoring results, obstruction of justice by interfering with an Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) investigation, violation of the Clean Air Act, providing asbestos materials to schools and local residents, and conspiracy to release asbestos and cover up health problems from asbestos contamination. The Department of Justice said 1,200 residents had developed asbestos-related diseases and some had died, and there could be many more injuries and deaths.\n\nW. R. Grace and Company faced fines of up to $280 million for polluting the town of Libby, Montana. Libby was declared a Superfund disaster area in 2002, and the EPA has spent $54 million in cleanup. Grace was ordered by a court to reimburse the EPA for cleanup costs, but the bankruptcy court must approve any payments.\n\nOn June 8, 2006, a federal judge dismissed the conspiracy charge of \"knowing endangerment\" because some of the defendant officials had left the company before the five-year statute of limitations had begun to run. The wire fraud charge was dropped by prosecutors in March.\n\nAsbestos abatement (removal of asbestos) has become a thriving industry in the United States. Strict removal and disposal laws have been enacted to protect the public from airborne asbestos. The Clean Air Act requires that asbestos be wetted during removal and strictly contained, and that workers wear safety gear and masks. The federal government has prosecuted dozens of violations of the act and violations of Racketeer Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act (RICO) related to the operations. Often these involve contractors who hire undocumented workers without proper training or protection to illegally remove asbestos.\n\nOn April 2, 1998, three men were indicted in a conspiracy to use homeless men for illegal asbestos removal from an aging Wisconsin manufacturing plant. Then-US Attorney General Janet Reno said, \"Knowingly removing asbestos improperly is criminal. Exploiting the homeless to do this work is cruel.\"\n\nOn December 12, 2004, owners of New York asbestos abatement companies were sentenced to the longest federal jail sentences for environmental crimes in U.S. history, after they were convicted on 18 counts of conspiracy to violate the Clean Air Act and the Toxic Substances Control Act, and actual violations of the Clean Air Act and Racketeer-Influenced and Corrupt Organizations Act. The crimes involved a 10-year scheme to illegally remove asbestos. The RICO counts included obstruction of justice, money laundering, mail fraud and bid rigging, all related to the asbestos cleanup.\n\nOn January 11, 2006, San Diego Gas & Electric Co., two of its employees, and a contractor were indicted by a federal grand jury on charges that they violated safety standards while removing asbestos from pipes in Lemon Grove, California. The defendants were charged with five counts of conspiracy, violating asbestos work practice standards and making false statements.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53448828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53448828", "title": "Basel Congress (1869)", "text": "Basel Congress (1869)\n\nThe Basel Congress of 1869 is the common name assigned to the 4th General Congress of the International Workingmen's Association (IWA), commonly known as the First International. The meeting was held in the city of Basel, Switzerland from September 6 to 12, 1869 and was attended by 75 delegates, representing the socialist and labor movements of United States, England France, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Italy, and Spain.\n\nThe conference was mainly noted for the confrontation between the Proudhonist mutualists and the collectivist position, defended by Marx's envoy for the General Council and Bakunin both. But the Belgian socialist de Paepe played a decisive role in bringing the Belgian delegation across to the collectivist side and isolating the mainly French Proudhonists.\n\nAccording to G. M. Stekloff's account, in attendance were:\nSeventy-five delegates assembled: from Great Britain, the 6 members of the General Council, Applegarth, Eccarius, Cowell Stepney, Lessner, Lucraft, and Jung; from France, which sent 26 delegates, among whom we may mention Dereure, Landrin, Chémalé, Murat, Aubry, Tolain, A. Richard, Palix, Varlin, and Bakunin: Belgium sent 5 delegates, among whom were Hins, Brismée, and De Paepe; Austria 2 delegates, Neumayer and Oberwinder; Germany sent 10 delegates, among whom were Becker, Liebknecht, Rittinghausen, and Hess; Switzerland had 22 representatives, among whom were Burkly, Greulich, Fritz Robert, Guillaume, Schwitzguébel, and Perret; Italy sent but one delegate, Caporusso; from Spain there came Farga-Pellicer and Sentinon; and the United States of America was represented by Cameron. Jung was elected chairman of the congress.\n"}
{"id": "4356289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4356289", "title": "Bennett Law", "text": "Bennett Law\n\nThe Bennett Law was a controversial state law passed in Wisconsin in 1889 that required the use of English to teach major subjects in all public and private elementary and high schools. Because German Catholics and Lutherans each operated large numbers of parochial schools in the state where German was used in the classroom, it was bitterly resented by German-American (and some Norwegian) communities. Although the law was ultimately repealed, there were significant political repercussions, with the Republicans losing the governorship and the legislature, and the election of Democrats to the Senate and House of Representatives.\n\nThe law seemed to be a noncontroversial effort to require school attendance when it passed, and few paid much attention to the language provision at first. Bennett was a Roman Catholic, an English-speaking group that competed for control of the Catholic Church against the Germans. In practice, the law was never enforced. Republican politicians had long avoided antagonizing the Germans, since they had considerable support from German voters. However, in 1888 the professionals were pushed aside and the party nominated William D. Hoard, a dairy farmer with no political experience as governor. He found the opposition of the Germans to the Bennett Law an insult to the English language and tried to mobilize the English-speaking population of the state behind his reelection in 1890 by hammering at the necessity to have all children speak English.\n\nAs opposition swelled, Hoard escalated to a defense of the public school system (which was not under attack): \"The little schoolhouse--stand by it!\" he cried out. Hoard ridiculed the Germans by claiming that he was the better guardian of their children than their parents or pastors. Hoard counted votes and thought he had a winning coalition by whipping up nativist distrust of Germania as anti-American. In Milwaukee, a predominantly German city where an estimated 86 percent had foreign-born parents, Hoard attacked Germania and religion: \nWe must fight alienism and selfish ecclesiasticism... The parents, the pastors and the church have entered into a conspiracy to darken the understanding of the children, who are denied by cupidity and bigotry the privilege of even the free schools of the state.\n\nThe Germans were incensed at the blatant attack not only on their language and culture but also on their religion and the parochial schools were set up and funded by the parents in order to inculcate the community's religious values. Furthermore, the idea that the state could intervene in family life and tell children how to speak was intolerable.\n\nBy June 1890, the state's Missouri Synod and Wisconsin Synod (the main German Lutheran groups) had denounced the law. German Catholic priests also denounced the law; Father Johann B. Reindl of Oshkosh referred to it as \"unjust and a blow at the German people.\" After strong lobbying by Catholic Archbishop Frederick Katzer of the Archdiocese of Milwaukee and other parochial leaders, Democrats, led by Yankee William F. Vilas took up the German cause and nominated Milwaukee Mayor George Wilbur Peck, also a Yankee, for governor.\n\nTraditionally Democratic Irish Catholics were initially not as vigorous in opposition to the law, with a substantial section of the community even supporting it, as Hoard had hoped. However, the outpouring of militantly anti-Catholic rhetoric by many of the law's supporters handily alienated a majority of the Irish in Wisconsin, prompting the top Irish newspaper in the state, the Chippewa Falls-based \"Catholic Citizen\", to write that the law represented a convergence of \"all the sectarian, bigoted, fanatical and crazy impurities\" within the Republican Party which had taken the reins of power. The Germans, for their part, organized thoroughly and supported Peck. Combined with popular reaction against the new Republican tariff, the result was a major victory for the Democrats, their first in decades in Wisconsin. The Edwards law was a similar law in Illinois, where the same forces were at work to produce a Democratic win.\n\nThe law was repealed in 1891, but Democrats used the memories to carry Wisconsin and Illinois in the 1892 United States presidential election. It was the last major attack on German language schools until 1914. In 1925 in \"Pierce v. Society of Sisters\", the US Supreme Court made it clear that state attacks on parochial schools violated the First Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1238801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1238801", "title": "Ceremonial oath of the Bundeswehr", "text": "Ceremonial oath of the Bundeswehr\n\nThere are two types of soldiers serving in the Bundeswehr (Federal Defence Forces): regular units and conscripts. Consequently, there are also two types of oaths. That for conscripts is a pledge, since the latter may bind soldiers against their own will. The oath for regular units is an oath in the word's proper sense.\n\nConscripts' pledge:\n\nTranslation:\n\nAlternative translation:\n\nAny conscripted soldier is allowed to deny taking the pledge. In this case, however, he will forfeit any chance of promotion during his service (this refusal is not to be mistaken for the conscientious objection to military service, which allows German conscripts to render a social alternative service).\n\nOath for other enlisted personnel, non-commissioned officers and officers serving for a period of more two years and above (Soldiers For a Time) or for lifetime (professional soldiers):\n\nTranslation:\n\nThe religious adjunct used with the oath is optional, the replacing of \"ich gelobe\" (I pledge) with \"ich schwöre\" (I swear) is not.\n"}
{"id": "28655936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28655936", "title": "China–Korea Treaty of 1882", "text": "China–Korea Treaty of 1882\n\nThe China–Korea Treaty of 1882 (中朝商民水陸貿易章程, 조청상민수륙무역장정) was negotiated between representatives of the Qing Dynasty and the Joseon Dynasty in October 1882. This agreement has been described as the \"Joseon-Qing Communication and Commerce Rules\"; and it has been called the \"Sino-Korean Regulations for Maritime and Overland Trade.\" The treaty remained in effect until 1895. After 1895, China lost its influence over Korea because of the First Sino-Japanese War.\n\nIn 1876, Korea established a trade treaty with Japan after Japanese ships approached Ganghwado. Treaty negotiations with several Western countries were made possible by the completion of this initial Japanese overture.\n\nIn 1882, the Americans concluded a treaty and established diplomatic relations, which served as a template for subsequent negotiations with other Western powers.\n\nTwo weeks after the United States–Korea Treaty of 1882, a military revolt called Imo Incident occurred in Seoul. The soldiers occupied Changdeok Palace, and the Korean government asked for military help from China. The revolt was suppressed by Chinese troops. After the incident, Chinese influence over Korea increased.\n\nThe Chinese and Koreans negotiated and approved a multi-article treaty with provisions affecting Korean diplomatic relations with Western nations.\n\nThe Joseon-Qing Communication and Commerce Rules sought to mitigate the effects of increased diplomatic intercourse and expanded commercial relations with Western powers. The negotiated agreement caused unintended consequences.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45241963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45241963", "title": "Civil mobilization", "text": "Civil mobilization\n\nCivil mobilization is the legal compulsion for civilians to work, in distinction to military mobilization. It has been used on a number of occasions by a number of governments. This generally makes striking illegal for the duration of the mobilization.\n\nTo prevent a doctors strike the Belgium government, in April 1964, issued a civil mobilization order for hospital doctors and military doctors.\n\nIn Greece civil mobilization orders were made for dock workers, teachers and power workers .\n\n "}
{"id": "3187529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3187529", "title": "Concurrent jurisdiction", "text": "Concurrent jurisdiction\n\nConcurrent jurisdiction exists where two or more courts from different systems simultaneously have jurisdiction over a specific case. This situation leads to forum shopping, as parties will try to have their civil or criminal case heard in the court that they perceive will be most favorable to them. \n\nIn the United States, concurrent jurisdiction exists to the extent that the United States Constitution permits federal courts to hear actions that can also be heard by state courts. For example, when a party from Alabama sues a party from Florida for a breach of contract, the Alabama party can sue in either federal court (under its diversity jurisdiction) or in the state court located in Florida (under its personal jurisdiction over the defendant). Concurrent jurisdiction may also be created where the United States Congress, in creating a cause of action, permits the courts of the states to hear cases alleging that cause of action. For example, a state court may hear a claim for trademark infringement under the Lanham Act.\n\nConcurrent jurisdiction in the United States can also exist between different levels of state courts, and between courts and other government agencies with judicial powers. Different countries can also share concurrent jurisdiction over a case, where different countries have authority over the parties or events giving rise to the cause of action. \n\nTitle 28 of the United States Code, sections 1331 & 1332 give federal courts concurrent jurisdiction with the state courts over federal question and diversity cases.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, the Church expanded its jurisdiction in many areas of Europe widely beyond the original scope of ecclesiastical courts concerning spiritual or religious matters, thereby creating concurrent jurisdiction in many civil cases with the courts instituted by secular authorities.\n\n"}
{"id": "592509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=592509", "title": "Diet of Porvoo", "text": "Diet of Porvoo\n\nThe Diet of Porvoo (Finnish \"Porvoon maapäivät\", or unhistorically \"Porvoon valtiopäivät\"; Swedish \"Borgå landtdag\"), was the summoned legislative assembly to establish the Grand Principality of Finland in 1809 and the heir of the powers of the Swedish Riksdag of the Estates. The session of the Diet lasted from March to July 1809.\n\nDuring the Finnish War between Sweden and Russia, the four Estates of Russian occupied Finland (\"Nobility, Clergy, Burghers and Peasants\") were assembled at Porvoo \"(Borgå)\" by Tsar Alexander I, the new Grand Prince of Finland, between 25 March and 19 July 1809. The central event at Porvoo was the sovereign pledge and the oaths of the Estates in Porvoo Cathedral on 29 March. Each of the Estates swore their oaths of allegiance, committing themselves to accepting the Emperor as Grand Prince of Finland as the true authority, and to keeping the constitution and the form of government unchanged. Alexander I subsequently promised to govern Finland in accordance with its laws and let the Finnish keep their religion and rights. This was thought to essentially mean that the emperor confirmed the Swedish Instrument of Government from 1772 as the constitution of Finland, although it was also interpreted to mean respecting the existing codes and statutes. \n\nThe diet had required that it would be convened again after the Finnish War, which separated Finland from Sweden, had been concluded. On 17 September the same year, the conflict was settled by the Treaty of Fredrikshamn but it would be another five decades until the Finnish Estates would be called again.\n\nDuring the rise of Finnish nationalism later in the 19th century, it was claimed that the Diet implied that a Treaty between States had been signed at the Diet between Finland and Russia. According to Emeritus Professor Jussila of Helsinki University, it is true that Alexander said that Finland had been raised to the status of a nation among nations, but the claim of a Treaty between equals was simply a device invented for the political realities of the struggle for independence. \n\nDiet had participants from different estates as follows:\n\n\nOut of 205 noble families 130 were not represented in the diet, and 60 of the representatives did not attend the opening ceremony. The burghers were mainly represented by merchants.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1184649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1184649", "title": "Electronic Communications Privacy Act", "text": "Electronic Communications Privacy Act\n\nThe Electronic Communications Privacy Act of 1986 (ECPA) was enacted by the United States Congress to extend government restrictions on wire taps from telephone calls to include transmissions of electronic data by computer ( \"et seq.\"), added new provisions prohibiting access to stored electronic communications, i.e., the Stored Communications Act (SCA, \"et seq.\"), and added so-called pen trap provisions that permit the tracing of telephone communications ( \"et seq.\").\nECPA was an amendment to Title III of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (the Wiretap Statute), which was primarily designed to prevent unauthorized government access to private electronic communications. The ECPA has been amended by the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act (CALEA) of 1994, the USA PATRIOT Act (2001), the USA PATRIOT reauthorization acts (2006), and the FISA Amendments Act (2008).\n\n\"Electronic communications\" means any transfer of signs, signals, writing, images, sounds, data, or intelligence of any nature transmitted in whole or in part by a wire, radio, electromagnetic, photoelectronic or photooptic system that affects interstate or foreign commerce, but excludes the following:\n\nTitle I of the ECPA protects wire, oral, and electronic communications while in transit. It sets down requirements for search warrants that are more stringent than in other settings. Title II of the ECPA, the Stored Communications Act (SCA), protects communications held in electronic storage, most notably messages stored on computers. Its protections are weaker than those of Title I, however, and do not impose heightened standards for warrants. Title III prohibits the use of pen register and/or trap and trace devices to record dialing, routing, addressing, and signaling information used in the process of transmitting wire or electronic communications without a court order.\n\nThe ECPA extended government restrictions on wire taps from telephone calls to include transmissions of electronic data by computer ( \"et seq.\"), added new provisions prohibiting access to stored electronic communications, i.e., the Stored Communications Act ( \"et seq.\"), and added so-called pen/trap provisions that permit the tracing of telephone communications ( \"et seq.\").\n\nThe ECPA extended privacy protections provided by the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 (of employers monitoring of employees phone calls) to include also electronic and cell phone communications. \"See also Employee monitoring and Workplace privacy\".\n\nSeveral court cases have raised the question of whether e-mail messages are protected under the stricter provisions of Title I while they were in transient storage en route to their final destination. In \"United States v. Councilman\", a U.S. district court and a three-judge appeals panel ruled they were not, but in 2005, the full United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit reversed this opinion. Privacy advocates were relieved; they had argued in amicus curiae briefs that if the ECPA did not protect e-mail in temporary storage, its added protections were meaningless as virtually all electronic mail is stored temporarily in transit at least once and that Congress would have known this in 1986 when the law was passed. (see, e.g., RFC 822). The case was eventually dismissed on grounds unrelated to ECPA issues.\n\nThe seizure of a computer, used to operate an electronic bulletin board system, and containing private electronic mail which had been sent to (stored on) the bulletin board, but not read (retrieved) by the intended recipients, does not constitute an unlawful intercept under the Federal Wiretap Act, 18 U.S.C. s 2510, et seq., as amended by Title I of ECPA.\nGovernments can actually track cell phones in real time without a search warrant under ECPA by analyzing information as to antennae being contacted by cell phones, as long as the cell phone is used in public where visual surveillance is available.\n\nIn \"Robbins v. Lower Merion School District\" (2010), also known as \"WebcamGate\", the plaintiffs charged that two suburban Philadelphia high schools violated ECPA by remotely activating the webcams embedded in school-issued laptops and monitoring the students at home. The schools admitted to secretly snapping over 66,000 webshots and screenshots, including webcam shots of students in their bedrooms.\n\nECPA has been criticized for failing to protect all communications and consumer records, mainly because the law is so outdated and out of touch with how people currently share, store, and use information.\n\nUnder ECPA, it is relatively easy for a government agency to demand service providers hand over personal consumer data stored on the service provider's servers. Email that is stored on a third party's server for more than 180 days is considered by the law to be abandoned. All that is required to obtain the content of the emails by a law enforcement agency is a written statement certifying that the information is relevant to an investigation, without judicial review. When the law was initially passed, emails were stored on a third party's server for only a short period of time, just long enough to facilitate transfer of email to the consumer's email client, which was generally located on their personal or work computer. Now, with online email services prevalent such as Gmail and Hotmail, users are more likely to store emails online indefinitely, rather than to only keep them for less than 180 days. If the same emails were stored on the user's personal computer, it would require the police to obtain a warrant first for seizure of their contents, regardless of their age. When they are stored on an internet server however, no warrant is needed, starting 180 days after receipt of the message, under the law. In 2013, members of the U.S. Congress proposed to reform this procedure.\n\nECPA also increased the list of crimes that can justify the use of surveillance as well as the number of judicial members who can authorize such surveillance. Data can be obtained on traffic and calling patterns of an individual or group without a warrant, allowing an agency to gain valuable intelligence and possibly invade privacy without any scrutiny, because the actual content of the communication is left untouched. While workplace communications are in theory protected, all that is needed to gain access to communiqué is for an employer to simply give notice or a supervisor to feel that the employee's actions are not in the company's interest. This means that with minimal assumptions an employer can monitor communications within the company. The ongoing debate is on where to limit the government's power to see into civilian lives, while balancing the need to curb national threats.\n\nIn 2011, \"The New York Times\" published \"1986 Privacy Law Is Outrun by the Web\", highlighting that:\n...the Justice Department argued in court that cellphone users had given up the expectation of privacy about their location by voluntarily giving that information to carriers. In April, it argued in a federal court in Colorado that it ought to have access to some e-mails without a search warrant. And federal law enforcement officials, citing technology advances, plan to ask for new regulations that would smooth their ability to perform legal wiretaps of various Internet communications.\nThe analysis went on to discuss how Google, Facebook, Verizon, Twitter and other companies are in the middle between users and governments.\n\n"}
{"id": "553671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=553671", "title": "Free Culture (book)", "text": "Free Culture (book)\n\nFree Culture: How Big Media Uses Technology and the Law to Lock Down Culture and Control Creativity (published in paperback as Free Culture: The Nature and Future of Creativity) is a 2004 book by law professor Lawrence Lessig that was released on the Internet under the Creative Commons Attribution/Non-commercial license on March 25, 2004.\n\nThis book documents how copyright power has expanded substantially since 1974 in five critical dimensions: \n\nIt also documents how this industry has successfully used the legal system to limit competition to the major media corporations through legal action against: \n\nThe result is a legal and economic environment that stifles \"the Progress of Science and useful Arts\", exactly the opposite of the purpose cited in the US Constitution. It may not be possible today to produce another Mickey Mouse, because many of its early cartoon themes might be considered \"derivative works\" of some existing copyrighted material (as indicated in the subtitle to the hardback edition and in numerous examples in this book).\n\nThis book is an outgrowth of the U.S. Supreme Court decision in \"Eldred v. Ashcroft\", which Lessig lost. Article I, Section 8, Clause 8 of the U.S. Constitution says, \"The Congress shall have Power... to promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, by securing for limited Times to Authors and Inventors the exclusive Right to their respective Writings and Discoveries.\" Several times in the past century, congress has extended the copyright law in several ways. One way was to extend the term \"on the installment plan\". Another was to broaden the scope to include not only copying but creating \"derivative works\". This latter broadening is so ambiguous that it provides a foundation for massive abuse of power by companies holding large copyright portfolios. For example, the Recording Industry Association of America sued a freshman at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) for $10,000,000 for improving a search engine used only inside RPI. Lessig cites another example where Fox demanded $10,000 for the rights to use a 4.5 second video clip with \"The Simpsons\" playing on a television in a corner of a scene in a documentary. Anyone producing a collage of video clips can potentially be similarly sued on the grounds the collage is a \"derivative work\" of something copyrighted or that the collage contains a shot that is copyrighted. Lessig argues that this substantially limits the growth of creative arts and culture, in violation of the US Constitution; the Supreme Court ruled that Congress has the constitutional authority to properly balance competing interests on cases like this.\n\nIn the preface of \"Free Culture\", Lessig compares this book with a previous book of his, \"Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace\", which propounded that software has the effect of law. \"Free Culture\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s message is different, Lessig writes, because it is \"about the consequence of the Internet to a part of our tradition that is much more fundamental, and, as hard as this is for a geek-wanna-be to admit, much more important.\" (pg. xiv)\n\nProfessor Lessig analyzes the tension that exists between the concepts of piracy and property in the intellectual property realm in the context of what he calls the present \"depressingly compromised process of making law\" that has been captured in most nations by multinational corporations that are interested in the accumulation of capital and not the free exchange of ideas.\n\nThe book also chronicles his prosecution of \"Eldred\" and his attempt to develop the Eldred Act, also known as the \"Public Domain Enhancement Act\" or the \"Copyright Deregulation Act\".\n\nLessig concludes his book by suggesting that as society evolves into an information society there is a choice to be made to decide if that society is to be free or feudal in nature. In his afterword he suggests that free software pioneer Richard Stallman and the Free Software Foundation model of making content available is not against the capitalist approach that has allowed such corporate models as Westlaw and LexisNexis to have subscribers to pay for materials that are essentially in the public domain but with underlying licenses like those created by his organization \"Creative Commons.\"\n\nHe also argues for the creation of shorter renewable periods of copyright and a limitation on derivative rights, such as limiting a publisher's ability to stop the publication of copies of an author's book on the internet for non-commercial purposes or create a compulsory licensing scheme to ensure that creators obtain direct royalties for their works based upon their usage statistics and some kind of taxation scheme such as suggested by professor William Fisher of Harvard Law School that is similar to a longstanding proposal of Richard Stallman.\n\nLessig defines \"Free Culture\" not as \"free\" as in \"Free Beer\", but \"free\" as in \"free speech\". A free culture supports and protects its creators and innovators directly and indirectly. It directly supports creators and innovators by granting intellectual property rights. It indirectly supports them by ensuring that follow-on creators and innovators remain as free as possible from the creators of the past by limiting how extensive intellectual property rights are. A \"permissions culture\" is the opposite of a free culture; in a permissions culture, creators and innovators are only able to create and innovate with the permission of creators of the past – whether they be powerful creators or not.\n\nLessig presents two examples that provide some insight into the nature of these dueling cultures. In the first, an example of \"free culture\", he describes how aircraft operators did not have to abide by an old law that land owners also owned the air above the property and thus could forbid overflight. In the second, an example of a \"permissions culture\", he describes how David Sarnoff, president of RCA, managed to persuade the government to delay the deployment of the rival wideband FM radio, invented by Edwin Howard Armstrong. He describes this as an example of how the inventor of a new invention can be forced to request \"permission\" from a previous inventor.\n\nThe disparate features of a free culture and a permissions culture effect how culture is made. In a free culture, innovators are able to create — and build upon past creations — without the worry of infringing upon intellectual property rights. In a permissions culture, innovators must first request \"permission\" from past creators in order to build upon or modify past creations. Oftentimes, the innovator must pay the past creator in order to obtain the permission needed to proceed. If the past creator refuses to grant permission to the innovator, the past creator may appeal to the government to enforce their intellectual property rights. Typically, intellectual property rights protect culture that is produced and sold, or made to be sold. This type of culture is \"commercial culture\", and the focus of the law is typically on commercial creativity rather than \"non-commercial activity\". Initially, the law, \"protected the incentives of creators by granting them exclusive rights to their creative work, so that they could sell those exclusive rights in a commercial marketplace.\" This protection has become far more extensive, as is evinced in the Armstrong/RCA example.\n\nLessig argues that we are fast becoming a permissions culture, though he sees the internet as a modern-day Armstrong: it challenges the traditional innovator and seeks to break free of any permissions or strict regulations. The internet can provide a vastly more vibrant and competitive innovation culture, and this is troublesome for any large corporations that have invested in fortifying their intellectual property rights: \"Corporations threatened by the potential of the internet to change the way both commercial and noncommercial culture are made and shared have united to induce lawmakers to use the law to protect them.\" The internet has facilitated the mass production of culture, both commercial and noncommercial. Corporations that had traditionally controlled this production have reacted by pressuring legislators to change the laws to protect their interests. The protection that these corporations seek is not protection for the creators, but rather protection \"against\" certain forms of business that directly threaten them. Lessig’s worry is that intellectual property rights will not be protecting the right sort of property, but will instead come to protect private interests in a controlling way. He writes that the First Amendment protects creators against state control and copyright law, when properly balanced, protects creators against private control. Expansive intellectual property rights stands to dramatically increase all regulations on creativity in America, stifling innovation by requiring innovators to request permission prior to their creative work.\n\nFree Culture covers the themes of Piracy and Property. Lessig writes at the end of the Preface, \"... the free culture that I defend in this book is a balance between anarchy and control. A free culture, like a free market, is filled with property. It is filled with rules of property and contract that get enforced by the state. But just as a free market is perverted if its property becomes feudal, so too can a free culture be queered by extremism in the property rights that define it.\"\n\n\"How free is this culture?\"\nAccording to Lessig, ours has been but is decreasingly a free culture. Free cultures leave content open for expansion by others. Purportedly, this is not a new practice, but one that is increasingly challenged, mostly for economic reasons by creators and industry. The conflict or \"war against piracy\" emerges from efforts to regulate creative property in order to delimit the use of creative property without permission. As Lessig sees it, \"the law's role is less and less to support creativity, and more and more to protect certain industries against competition.\"\n\nThis new role of law is meant to protect copyright owners from 'pirates' who share their content for free, effectively 'robbing' the creator of any profit. Lessig acknowledges piracy is wrong and deserving of punishment, however he is concerned the concept, as it appears in the context of 'internet piracy', has been used inappropriately. This problematic conception follows a certain chain of reasoning: creative work has value; when an individual uses, takes or builds upon someone else's creative work they are appropriating something of value from the creator. If someone appropriates something of value from a creator without the creator's expressed permission, then that someone is 'pirating' the creator's work, and this is wrong. Rochelle Dreyfuss, an NYU Professor of Law, has termed this conception of piracy the \"if value, then right\" theory of creative property — namely, \"if there is value, then someone must have a right to that value.\"\n\nFirst defining and then pointedly critiquing a prevalent \"if value, then right\" notion of creative property, Lessig emphasizes that American law recognizes intellectual property as an instrument. Lessig points out that \"if value, then right\" is correct, then film, recorded music, radio, and cable TV each is built on a history of piracy. Lessig details the history of these four \"pirates\" as examples of how pervasive has been the practice of making use of others' creative property without permission. Importantly, Lessig points out, throughout human history, \"every society has left a certain bit of its culture free for the taking.\" This free culture has historically been deliberate, and widely appreciated. In fact, \"creators here and everywhere are always and at all times building upon the creativity that went before and that surrounds them now.\"\n\nLessig goes on to suggest that the advent of the Internet has changed our culture, and along with it the expectation and acceptance of creative piracy. In particular, the internet has brought about a war against piracy. At the heart of the heat is a question about the reach, benefit, and burden of copyright law. The internet is a bold challenge to the \"natural limit to the reach of the law\", and therein lies the quandary. The presence of the internet instigates and fans the flames of the piracy war by virtue of its inherent ability to very quickly and indiscriminately spread content.\n\nUltimately, Lessig leaves us to deliberate \"even if some piracy is plainly wrong, not all piracy is.\" Finding the balance is, has been, and needs to continue to be the process of U.S. law; internet use, as exemplified by peer-to-peer (p2p) file sharing pushes the envelope.\n\nFor centuries, copyright holders have complained about \"piracy\". In 1996, the American Society of Composers, Authors and Publishers (ASCAP) sued \"the Girl Scouts for failing to pay for the songs that girls sang around Girl Scout campfires.\" The suit was a public relations disaster for ASCAP, and they dropped the suit. However, the law still remains: If you sing a copyrighted song in public, you are legally required to pay the copyright holder.\n\nCopyright law has also been extended to threaten the very creativity that is a central value of our society, burdening it \"with insanely complex and vague rules and with the threat of obscenely severe penalties.\" Copyright law at its birth only protected inappropriate copying. Today it also covers\n\n\"building upon or transforming that work... [W]hen the law regulates as broadly and obscurely as it does, the extension matters a lot. The burden of this law now vastly outweighs any original benefit... [T]he law's role is less and less to support creativity, and more and more to protect certain industries against competition.\"\n\nLessig explains that copyright is a kind of property, but that it is an odd kind of property for which the term can sometimes be misleading—the difference between taking a table and taking a good idea, for example, is hard to see under the term 'property'. As late as 1774, publishers believed a copyright was forever. A copyright at that time was more limited than it is today, only prohibiting others from reprinting a book; it did not cover, as today, other rights over performance, derivative works, etc. Modern technology allows people to copy or cut and paste video clips in creative new ways to produce art, entertainment, and new modes of expression and communication that didn't exist before. The resulting potential for media literacy could help ordinary people not only communicate their concerns better but also make it easier for them to understand when they are being suckered into things not in their interests. However, current copyright law effectively restricts the use of this to very wealthy individuals and corporations for two reasons: (1) the vagueness of \"fair use\". (2) The costs of negotiating legal rights for the creative reuse of content are astronomically high. \"You either pay a lawyer to defend your fair use rights or pay a lawyer to track down permissions so you don't have to rely on fair use rights.\"\n\nDrawing on an argument Lessig made in Code and Other Laws of Cyberspace he applies the model of four different modalities of regulation that support or weaken a given right or regulation. The four means of regulation are law, market, architecture and norms. These four modalities constrain the target group or individual in different ways, and law tends to function as an umbrella over the other methods. These constraints can be changed, also a restriction imposed by one constraint may allow freedoms from another. Lessig maintains that before the internet these constraints remained in balance with each other in regulating copying of creative works.\n\nHowever, government support of established companies with an older form of doing business would preclude innovation induced competition and overall progress. Lessig says it best ‘ it is the special duty of policy makers to guarantee that that protection not become a deterrent to progress’ He specifies that his argument is not about justification of protection of copyrights but the effects of changing the law regarding copyright in the face of the Internet. In this regard he brings the example of the unforeseen effects on the environment of using the chemical pesticide DDT despite its initial promise for commercial agriculture. Following this allusion he calls for an almost environmentalist awareness for the future of the creative environment.\n\nCopyright has changed from covering just books, maps and charts to any work today that has a tangible form including music to architecture and drama and software. Today, it gives the copyright holder the exclusive right to publish the work and control over any copies of the work as well as any derivative work. Additionally, there is no requirement to register a work to get a copyright; it is automatic, whether or not a copy is made available for others to copy. Copyright law does not distinguish between transformative use of a work and duplication or piracy. The change in copyright scope today means law regulates publishers, users, and authors, simply because they are all capable of making copies. Before the internet, copies of any work were the trigger for copyright law, but Lessig raises the point of whether copies should always be the trigger, especially when considering the way digital media sharing works.\n\nIn 1831, the term of copyright increased from a maximum of 28 years to a maximum of 42; in 1909 the renewal term was extended from 14 years to 28. Beginning in 1962, the term of existing copyright was extended eleven times in the last 40 years. After 1976, any works created were subject to only one term of copyright, the maximum term, which was the life of the author plus fifty years, or seventy five years for corporations. According to Lessig, the public domain becomes orphaned by these changes to copyright law. In the past thirty years the average term has tripled and has gone from about 33 years to 95.\n\nThere are uses of copyrighted material that may involve copying that do not invoke copyright law, these are deemed fair uses. Fair use law denies the owner any exclusive right over such fair uses for public policy. The internet shifts the use of digital creative property, to one that is now regulated under copyright law. There is almost no use that is presumptively unregulated.\n\nRelatively recent changes in technology and copyright law have dramatically expanded the impact of copyright in five different dimensions:\n\n\nLessig argues that some of these changes benefited society as a whole. However, the combined effects of the changes in these five dimensions has been to restrict rather than promote the Progress of Science and useful Arts, in apparent violation of the constitutional justification for copyright law. The negative impact on creativity can be seen in numerous examples throughout this book. A stark example of its impact on political discourse is the refusal by the major TV networks to run ads critical of the Bush administration's claims of Saddam Hussein's weapons of mass destruction during the period prior to the U.S. invasion of Iraq in 2003, enforced by Supreme Court decisions that give stations the right to choose what they will and will not run. Lessig claims this kind of environment is not democratic and at no point in our history have we had fewer \"legal right[s] to control more of the development of our culture than now.\"\n\nThe following summarizes the different sections of the book.\n\nLessig insists that the future of our society is being threatened by recent changes in US law and administration, including decisions by the US Federal Communications Commission that allow increased Concentration of media ownership. Lessig claims to defend a free culture that is balanced between control — a culture that has property, rules, and contracts pertaining to property that are enforced by the state — and anarchy — a culture that can grow and thrive when others are allowed to use and build upon the property of others. However, this culture can become puzzling and perplexing when the extremism about property rights begins to mimic the feudal property of a free market.\n\nLessig provides two examples that portray the difference between a free culture and a permissions culture — two themes that will develop throughout the book. \"(See Introduction and Identification of cultural Shift)\"\n\nLessig devotes the first chapter to defining creators as 'copycats' who borrow and \"build upon the creativity that went before and that surrounds them now... partially done without permission and without compensating the original creator.\" Throughout the chapter Lessig develops on a theme that \"all cultures are free to some degree,\" by expounding on key examples from the American and Japanese cultures, namely Disney and doujinshi comics, respectively.\n\nThe first commercial success of Mickey Mouse came with \"Steamboat Willie\", released in 1928. In part, it parodied the silent film \"Steamboat Bill, Jr.\", released earlier that year by Buster Keaton. Under current US law, \"Steamboat Willie\" might be challenged for copyright violation as a \"derivative work\" of \"Steamboat Bill, Jr.\" However, under copyright laws in 1928, this type of cultural production was unproblematic. This change has had a chilling effect on creativity, serving to reduce competition to the established media companies, as suggested by the subtitle to the original hardback edition of \"Free Culture\".\n\nSimilarly, in the vigorous Japanese comic market, where \"Some 40 percent of publications are comics, and 30 percent of publication revenue derives from comics\", one main driving force is 'doujinshi', which is a kind of copycat technique. However, to qualify as doujinshi, \"the artist must make a contribution to the art he copies... Doujinshi are plainly 'derivative works.'\" The doujinshi artists almost never get the permission of those who own the works they modify, though their work is seen to contribute to the overall cultural production.\n\nThis illegal, though culturally significant, market flourishes in Japan because it helps the mainstream comic creators. The mainstream market flourishes as well despite the derivative doujinshi market. Fighting this burgeoning illegal market would spell trouble for the mainstream market as well; these two systems for creating have learned to live somewhat harmoniously with one another, to each other's benefit.\n\nLessig concludes with a thought that \"ours was a free culture [that] is becoming much less so.\" So, would the US have a more vibrant industry in creating comics if the law were not used as often here to punish and intimidate small competitors to the big business producing comics?\n\nChapter 2 is a discussion about the influence of technology on culture, and the legal environment that impacts its reach. Lessig recounts George Eastman's invention of Kodak as a technology that advanced the invention of photography, and brought about significant social change by giving the average citizen access to what began as an elite form of expression. Lessig traces the simultaneous legal environment that permitted its genius: Given the challenge of deciding whether photographers would need to get permission before taking aim, the legal system decided \"in favor of the pirates... Freedom was the default.\"\n\nLessig presses to suggest that, had the legal atmosphere been different, \"nothing like the growth in a democratic technology of expression would have been realized.\" Democracy of expression is a main theme for this chapter, as Lessig examines various examples of the technologies that are developed to promote so-called \"media literacy\", the understanding and active use of media for learning, living, and communicating in the twenty-first century; he describes media literacy as a tool for empowering minds and reversing the digital divide.\n\nThe Internet is introduced as a prime example of a technology that develops the culture. For Lessig, the Internet is a \"mix of captured images, sound, and commentary [that] can be widely spread practically instantaneously.\" With e-mail and blogging, the Internet creates a dimension for democracy of speech that is widespread and far-reaching. Lessig's lament is that the freedom that the Internet and similar technologies offer is increasingly challenged by the restrictions that are placed upon them through laws that \"close down that technology.\"\n\nIn chapter 3, Lessing shares an account of Jesse Jordan, a 2002 freshman of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute (RPI) who made a significant contribution to the free culture debate through tinkering to develop a search engine which indexed pictures, research, notes, movie clips and a variety of other RPI network materials. When the Recording Industry Association of America (RIAA) sued Jesse (and three other students) for piracy, forcing him into a settlement that cost him all of his $12,000 savings, Jesse became an activist for free culture.\n\nIn chapter 4 Lessig advises that \"the history of the content industry is a history of piracy. Every important sector of the 'big media' today — film, records, radio, and cable TV — was born of a kind of piracy so defined.\" This includes the film industry of Hollywood who used piracy in order to escape the controls of Thomas Edison's patents. Similarly, the record industry grew out of piracy due to a loophole in the law permitting composers exclusivity to copies of their music and its public performance, but not over reproduction via the new phonograph and player piano technologies. Radio also grew out of piracy since the radio industry is not required to compensate recording artists for playing their works. As such, \"the law gives the radio station the right to take something for nothing,\" though radio is required to pay the composer. Cable TV is yet another example of big media that grew out of piracy. For decades, cable companies were not required to pay for their broadcast content. As in the case with recorded music, law ultimately settled this score by setting a price at which cable companies would pay copyright holders for their content.\n\nAccording to Lessig, \"every industry affected by copyright today is the product and beneficiary of a certain kind of piracy... Every generation welcomes the pirates from the last... until now.\"'\n\nLessig contextualizes piracy, noting that \"even if some piracy is plainly wrong, not all 'piracy' is... Many kinds of 'piracy' are useful and productive.. Neither our tradition nor any tradition has ever banned all 'piracy'. \"\n\nLessig compares the examples of piracy that were previously treated:\n\nBringing the discussion to an up-to-date example, Lessig gives an overview of Napster peer-to-peer (p2p) sharing and outlines benefits and harms of this kind of piracy through sharing. He cautions that laws should be tempered according to how much benefit and how harm such sharing might cause. According to Lessig, [t]he question is a matter of balance. The law should seek that balance...\"\n\nLessig emphasizes the role of copyright law, pointing out that as it stands, copyright law impacts all kinds of piracy, and hence is a part of the piracy war that challenges free culture. On the one hand, copyright supporters indiscriminately recognize cultural content as sharing the same attributes as tangible property. On the other hand, creators shun the notion of having their intellectual property at the disposal of pirates, and so agree to delimit commonality through strict copyright laws. Ultimately, Lessig calls for changes in US copyright law that balance the support of intellectual property with cultural freedom.\n\nA copyright is an odd kind of property, because it limits free use of ideas and expression. Chapters 6–9 \noffer four stories to help illustrate what it means to say that a copyright is property.\n\nIn the majority of European countries, copyright law began with the efforts of spiritual and temporal authorities to control the production of printers. This was often done by granting monopolies. \"Henry VIII granted a patent to print the bible\". In England, the Crown's practice of handing out monopolies became quite unpopular and was one of the issues that motivated the English Civil War of 1642–1651.\n\nAs late as 1774, publishers believed a copyright was forever. This was in spite of the fact that \"[t]he Statute of Anne [of 1710 tried to limit this by declaring] that all published works would get a copyright term of fourteen years, renewable once if the author was alive, and that all works already published... would get a single term of twenty-one additional years.\" (A copyright at that time was more limited than it is today, only prohibiting others from reprinting a book; it did not cover, as today, other rights over performance, derivative works, etc.) In spite of the Statute of Anne, publishers still insisted they had a perpetual copyright under common law. This claim was controversial. \"Many believed the power the [publishers] exercised over the spread of knowledge was harming that spread\". In 1774 the House of Lords, functioning like the Supreme Court of the United States today determined that in granting a copyright, \"The state would protect the exclusive right [to publish], but only so long as it benefited society.\" \"After 1774, the public domain was born.\n\nA film made by Jon Else in 1990 includes a 4.5 second segment with a television in a corner playing \"The Simpsons\". Before releasing the film, Else contacted \"The Simpsons\"'s creator, Matt Groening for copyright permission. Groening agreed but asked Else to contact the producer, Gracie Films. They agreed but asked Else to contact their parent company, Fox. When he contacted Fox, someone there claimed that Groening didn't own \"The Simpsons\", and Fox wanted $10,000 to allow him to distribute his documentary with \"The Simpsons\" playing in the background of a 4.5 second scene about something else. \"Else was sure there was a mistake. He worked his way up to someone he thought was a vice president for licensing, Rebecca Herrera. She confirmed that copyright permission would cost $10,000 for that 4.5 second clip in the corner of a shot, and added, \"And if you quote me, I'll turn you over to our attorneys.\"\n\nIn 1993, Starwave, Inc., produced a retrospective on compact disc (CD-ROM) of the career of Clint Eastwood, who had made over 50 films as an actor and director. The retrospective included short excerpts from each of Eastwood's films. Because this was not obviously \"fair use\", they needed to get clear rights from anyone who might have a copyright claim to those film clips, actors, composers, musicians, etc. CD was a new technology, not mentioned in any of the original contracts with the people involved. The standard rate at that time for that kind of use of less than a minute of film was about $600. A year later, they had collected signatures from everyone they could identify in the clips they had chosen, \"and even then we weren't sure whether we were totally in the clear.\"\n\nSimilarly, in \"2003, DreamWorks Studios announced an agreement with Mike Myers and Austin Powers [to] acquire the rights to existing motion picture hits and classics, write new story-lines and — with the use of state-of-the-art digital technology — insert Myers and other actors into the film, thereby creating an entirely new piece of entertainment.\"\n\nThese two examples expose a major threat to the creativity of our society: Modern technology allows people to copy or cut and paste video clips in creative new ways to produce art, entertainment, and new modes of expression and communication that didn't exist before. The resulting potential for media literacy could help ordinary people not only communicate their concerns better but also make it easier for them to understand when they are being suckered into things not in their interests (as indicated in chapter 2 of this book). However, current copyright law effectively restricts the use of this to very wealthy individuals and corporations for two reasons: (1) the vagueness of \"fair use\". (2) The costs of negotiating legal rights for the creative reuse of content are astronomically high. \"You either pay a lawyer to defend your fair use rights or pay a lawyer to track down permissions so you don't have to rely on fair use rights.\"\n\nLessig complained, \"While much of twentieth-century culture was constructed through television, only a tiny portion of that culture is available for anyone to see today.\" Lessig suggests that this is a violation of the spirit if the letter of the constitution: Early American copyright law required copyright owners to deposit copies of their work in libraries. \"These copies were intended both to facilitate the spread of knowledge and to assure that a copy of the work would be around once the copyright expired\".\n\nHowever, starting with film in 1915 the government has allowed copyright holders to avoid depositing a copy permanently with the Library of Congress. As a result, most of the copyrighted material from the twentieth century is unavailable to the public in any form.\n\nThis is starting to change. In 1996 Brewster Kahle founded the Internet Archive, a non-profit digital library to provide \"universal access to all knowledge\".\n\nHowever, congress continues to extend the copyright period. In 1790, a copyright lasted 14 years, and owners could get a 14-year extension for a fee. Since then, the copyright period was extended in 1831, 1909, 1954, 1971, 1976, 1988, 1992, 1994, and 1998. The media industry that got the previous extensions can be expected to try for yet another extension.\n\nChapter 10 examines the relatively recent changes in technology and copyright law have dramatically expanded the impact of copyright in five different dimensions: Duration, Scope, Reach, Control, Concentration.\n\nA chimera is an animal (e.g., human) with double the standard DNA formed by the fusion of two embryos. Chimeras were discovered when genetic testing of mothers failed to match the DNA of a child. Further testing revealed that the chimeric mothers had two sets of DNA.\n\nThe section then goes on to describe how, according to the RIAA, downloading a CD could leave you liable for damages of one and a half million. It then suggests that content owners are gaining a level of control they never previously had.\n\nIn this chapter Lessig describes three consequences of what he terms a \"war\". This war has been launched by the content industry to protect 'property'.\n\nConstraining Creators: This section explores how the current law makes the use of new digital technologies, such as e-mailing a Comedy Central clips, \"presumptively illegal\". He goes on to describe how it is impossible to determine where the line between legal and illegal lies but that the consequences of crossing the line can be extreme, such in the case of four college students threatened with a $98 billion lawsuit by RIAA. He states \"[F]air use in America simply means the right to hire a lawyer...\"\n\nConstraining Innovators: In this section Lessig describes how innovators are being constrained and amongst the examples he uses he gives the company MP3.com. In 2000 this company launched a service that would allow users to have a \"lockbox\" to which they could upload their music and access it anywhere. Shortly after the service was launched several major record companies sued the company and judgement was later entered for Vivendi against MP3.com. A year later Vivendi bought MP3.com. He also describes how innovators are hampered both the uncertainty in the law and the content industry's attempt to use to law to regulate the internet in an attempt to protect their interests. Also in this section he describes how, when new technologies are invented, Congress has attempted to strike a balance so as to protect these new technologies from the older ones. He suggests that this balance has now changed and uses as an example Internet radio which he suggests has been burdened by regulations and royalty payments that broadcasters have not been.\n\nCorrupting Citizens: Here Lessig describes how, according to the New York Times 43 million Americans had downloaded music in 2002, thus making 20 percent of Americans criminals.\n\nThis chapter summarizes Eldred v. Ashcroft. The lead petitioner, Eric Eldred, wanted to make public domain works freely available on the Internet. He was particularly interested in a work that was slated to pass into the public domain in 1998. However, the Sonny Bono Copyright Term Extension Act (CTEA) meant that this work would not be in the public domain until 2019—and not even then if Congress extended the term again, as it had eleven times since 1962. Further extension seems likely, because it makes good business sense for organizations owning old works that still generate revenue to spend a portion of that money on campaign contributions and lobbying to extend the terms even further. \"Copyrights have not expired, and will not expire, so long as Congress is free to be bought to extend them again.\n\nLead council in Eldred v. Ashcroft was Lessig. He lost this case due, he says, to a strategic blunder in arguing that repeated extensions effectively granted perpetual copyright in violation of the constitutional specification that copyrights and patents be \"for limited times\".\n\nThis was a high-profile case, and many different groups had filed briefs. \"[T]he Nashville Songwriters Association wrote that the public domain was nothing more than 'legal piracy.'\" One brief \"was signed by seventeen economists, including five Nobel Prize winners.\"\n\nLessig believes that if he had instead argued that this extension caused net harm to the US economy and culture, as numerous people had advised, he could have won. Lessig insists that, \"The real harm is to the works that are not famous, not commercially exploited, and no longer available as a result.\"\n\nThe structure of current law makes it exceedingly difficult for someone who might want to do something with an old work to find the copyright owner, because no central list exists. Because these old works no longer seem commercially viable to the copyright holder, many are deteriorating. Many old \"films were produced on nitrate-based stock, and nitrate stock dissolves over time. They will be gone, and the metal canisters in which they are now stored will be filled with nothing more\nthan dust.\"\n\nIn conclusion, Lessig uses the disproportionate number of HIV and AIDS victims in Africa and other poor countries to further his argument that the current control of intellectual property—in this case, patents to HIV drugs—defy \"common sense.\" AIDS is no longer a mortal illness for individuals who can afford between $10,000 and $15,000 per year, but few in poor countries can afford this. Lessig cites drug company lobbying in the U.S. to prevent reduced prices for their drugs in Africa but he holds the government and society responsible for failing to \"revolt\" against this injustice. In 1997 the US government threatened South Africa with possible trade sanctions if it attempted to obtain the drugs at the price at which they were available in these few other poor countries. In response, Lessig calls for a \"sensible patent policy\" that could support the patent system but enable flexibility in distribution, a \"sense of balance\" he says once existed historically but has now been lost. He supports the rights of companies to charge whatever they want for innovative products, but says we need patents to encourage others to invest in the research needed to develop such products. He points out, however, that offering AIDS drugs at a much reduced price in Africa would not directly impact the profits of pharmaceutical companies.\n\nIn the afterword, Lessig proposes practical solutions to the dispute over intellectual property rights, in hope that common sense and a proclivity toward free culture be revived. His ideas include emulating the structure of the Creative Commons in complement to copyright; invoking more formalities for in the exercise of creativity online (marking copyrighted work, registering copyrights, and renewing claims to copyright); limiting the role of the Copyright Office in developing marking systems; shorter copyright terms (enough to incentivize creativity, but no more) and simpler language; and moving the concerns of copyright out of the purview of expensive lawyers and more into public sphere.\n\nThe balance of this book maps out what might be done about the problems described earlier. This is divided into two parts: what anyone can do now and what requires help from lawmakers.\n\nUs, Now: If current trends continue, 'cut and paste' will become 'get permission to cut and paste'.\n\nThem, Soon: This chapter outlines five kinds of changes in law suggested by the analysis of this book.\n\n\"1. More Formalities\": It is suggested that all copyright work should be registered so as to lower the costs involved in obtaining the rights to a work. He further suggests that until a work has a complainant copyright notice the work should be usable by anyone.\n\n\"2. Shorter Terms\" In this section it is proposed that copyright terms should be shorter. Although not suggesting an actual time Lessig does suggest four principles of any copyright term:\n\n\"3. Free Use Vs. Fair Use\": Lessig suggests that what constitutes a derivative work should be narrowed.\n\n\"4. Liberate the Music —Again\": Here Lessig argues that the law on file-sharing music should be reformed and that any reform that attempts to limit file sharing in lieu of purchasing must also ensure it does not hamper the sharing of free content. He also suggests a law should be developed that allows the sharing of music no longer available in other media but ensure artists still receive a small royalty.\n\n\"5. Fire Lots of Lawyers\": Lessig opines that the costs involved in the legal system are too high and that it only works effectively for the top 1% and that a cheaper system would be more just.\n\nIn a review in \"The New York Times\", Adam Cohen found \"Free Culture\" to be a \"powerfully argued and important analysis,\" where Lessig argues persuasively that we are in a crisis of cultural impoverishment. However, he says that \"after taking us to this point, 300 pages into his analysis,\" Lessig \"fails to deliver,\" and his proposals are both \"impractical and politically unattainable.\"\n\nDavid Post argues that Lessig shows that \"free culture\" has always been a part of our intellectual heritage and illuminates the tension between the already created and not yet created. Although Post generally agrees with Lessig's argument, he does point out that copyrights are property rights and \"property rights are, as a general rule, a good thing\" and that Lessig does not do enough in his book to address this side of the debate.\n\nA day after the book was released online, blogger AKMA (A. K. Adam) suggested that people pick a chapter and make a voice recording of it, partly because they were allowed to. Users who commented volunteered to narrate certain chapters. Two days later, most of the book had been narrated.\n\nBesides audio production, this book was also translated into Chinese, a project proposed by Isaac Mao and completed as a collaboration involving many bloggers from mainland China and Taiwan. Other translations include Catalan, Czech , French, Hungarian, Italian, Polish, Portuguese and .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37069040", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37069040", "title": "Free textbook", "text": "Free textbook\n\nA free textbook is a textbook that can be read, used, copied, modified and redistributed without any restrictions. The word \"free\" in the term \"free textbook\" refers to freedom (liberty) and is not related to monetary cost. A free textbook is released under a free license that ensures that people will have the freedom to read, use, copy, modify, and redistribute the textbook. The notion of a free textbook derives from a more general notion called Free Cultural Work that was inspired from the definition of Free Software.\n\nOften free textbooks are released under the following free licenses:\n\n\nHowever, there are more free licenses under what a free textbook can be released.\n\nFor an author, choosing to put his textbook under a free license does not mean that he loses his right to be the author. If someone makes modifications of the textbook or makes a derivative work, he should provide the attribution in a proper manner. Many of these licenses are copyleft, which means that it preserves the transmission of freedom. For example, a derivative work will offer people the same freedoms as the original work does.\n\nVery often authors release their textbooks under a license that restrict, for example, the modification or commercial use. You still have the freedom to copy, redistribute and use these textbooks, but you can't modify them (for example, to translate) without the permission of the author. These restrictions are in contradiction with the Definition of Free Cultural Works or Free content, so these textbooks cannot be considered free textbooks.\n\nOn January 25, 2012 The Utah State of Office of Education (USOE) announced that it will develop and support free textbooks, and will encourage districts and schools throughout the state to adopt these textbooks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52469998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52469998", "title": "Fundamental error", "text": "Fundamental error\n\nFundamental error is a legal term provided by United State Courts to describe an error which occurs whenever a judgement violates a federal fundamental right. In United States constitutional law, fundamental rights have special significance under the U.S. Constitution. Those rights enumerated in the U.S. Constitution are recognized as \"fundamental\" by the U.S. Supreme Court. State courts within the United States may define fundamental error rules independently of the federal courts. State fundamental error rules may include errors which violate rights in additional to those rights guaranteed by the U.S. Constitution, but these rules may not infringe upon federal fundamental rights. Any law restricting such a right must both serve a compelling state purpose and be narrowly tailored to that compelling purpose.\n\nA fundamental error is a type of legal or judicial error. A judicial error is a mistake by a judge or court. If a majority of a reviewing court, such as an appellate court, finds an error or errors which impacts the result, the higher court \"may\" reverse the lower court's error in whole or in part (the entire judgment or a part of it), and remand (send it back) with instructions to the lower court.\n\nThere are various types of errors which fall under two groups: harmless errors and plain errors. Errors which have no prejudicial impact on the rights of a party are deemed harmless errors. Higher courts will not reverse or remand the lower court's decision for harmless errors. A plain error is an error that is obvious and affects \"the fairness, integrity or public reputation of judicial proceedings\". Plain errors are typically reversible errors. Higher courts will always reverse or remand the lower court's decision for reversible errors.\n\nFundamental errors are both plain errors and reversible errors. Fundamental errors are similar to substantial errors; however, the definition of a \"substantial error\" may differ slightly among the courts. A fundamental error is consistent among all US Courts as these errors violate the fundamental rights guaranteed by the US Constitution. In other words, all substantial errors are not necessarily fundamental errors, but all fundamental errors are substantial errors.\n\nCourts often review questions of whether a fundamental error occurred in post-conviction proceedings, such as a direct appeal, the writ of habeas corpus or the writ of coram nobis. Fundamental error, as a rule, is an extremely difficult claim to succeed in an appeal. Congress and state legislatures may enact regulations on these proceeding, such as time limits for the filing post-conviction motions, in efforts to reduce judicial caseloads. In \"Murray v. Carrier\", the Supreme Court ruled that the concept of fundamental error applies to those cases in which the defendant was probably ... actually innocent.\" The Court then specified that \"in an extraordinary case, where a constitutional violation has probably resulted in the conviction of one who is actually innocent, a federal habeas court may grant the writ even in the absence of a showing of cause for the procedural default.\"\n\nA petitioner may lose their chance to claim a violation of his or her Fundamental rights if there is a procedural default on the claim. Some procedural defaults include intentionally waiving their right to make the claim, or not filing the claim in a timely manner. If state courts provide adequate means of challenging federal fundamental errors, then a procedural default may not be appealed to a federal court. However, if state courts do not provide adequate means of challenging the errors, then a federal court has jurisdiction to hear the claim. The Supreme Court held in \"Coleman v. Thompson\" that a petitioner who failed to comply with a timeliness requirement in a \"state court\" could nevertheless plead their claims on the merits in federal court if he or she could show that \"failure to consider the claims [would] result in a fundamental miscarriage of justice.\"\n\nA fundamental error occurs whenever a defendant was probably actually innocent. In \"Murray v. Carrier\", the Supreme Court ruled that the concept of \"fundamental miscarriage of justice\" applies to those cases in which the defendant was probably actually innocent.\" That concern is reflected, for example, in the \"fundamental value determination of our society that it is far worse to convict an innocent man than to let a guilty man go free.\"\n\nA fundamental error occurs whenever there is a failure to prove beyond a reasonable doubt every element of the charged offense. In \"United States v. McClelland\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit held that \"the failure to properly instruct the jury on [the required] element of a crime constitutes fundamental error\".\n\nA fundamental error occurs whenever a defendant stands convicted of conduct that is not criminal. In \"United States v. Stoneman\", the United States Court of Appeals for the Third Circuit found a fundamental error occurs where a defendant stands convicted of conduct that is not criminal. If a defendant is convicted and punished for act that law does not make criminal, it \"inherently results in a complete miscarriage of justice\" and presents \"exceptional circumstances\" which justify collateral relief.\n\n"}
{"id": "615438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=615438", "title": "General Mining Act of 1872", "text": "General Mining Act of 1872\n\nThe General Mining Act of 1872 is a United States federal law that authorizes and governs prospecting and mining for economic minerals, such as gold, platinum, and silver, on federal public lands. This law, approved on May 10, 1872, codified the informal system of acquiring and protecting mining claims on public land, formed by prospectors in California and Nevada from the late 1840s through the 1860s, such as during the California Gold Rush.\nAll citizens of the United States of America 18 years or older have the right under the 1872 mining law to locate a lode (hard rock) or placer (gravel) mining claim on federal lands open to mineral entry. These claims may be located once a discovery of a locatable mineral is made. Locatable minerals include but are not limited to platinum, gold, silver, copper, lead, zinc, uranium and tungsten.\n\nMiners and prospectors in the California Gold Rush of 1849 found themselves in a legal vacuum. Although the US federal government had laws governing the leasing of mineral land, the United States had only recently acquired California by the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo, and had little presence in the newly acquired territories.\n\nMiners organized their own governments in each new mining camp (for example the Great Republic of Rough and Ready), and adopted the Mexican mining laws then existing in California that gave the discoverer right to explore and mine gold and silver on public land. Miners moved from one camp to the next, and made the rules of all camps more or less the same, usually differing only in specifics such as in the maximum size of claims, and the frequency with which a claim had to be worked to avoid being forfeited and subject to being claimed by someone else. California miners spread the concept all over the west with each new mining rush, and the practices spread to all the states and territories west of the Great Plains.\n\nAlthough the practices for open mining on public land were more-or-less universal in the West, and supported by state and territorial legislation, they were still illegal under existing federal law. At the end of the American Civil War, some eastern congressmen regarded western miners as squatters who were robbing the public patrimony, and proposed seizure of the western mines to pay the huge war debt. In June 1865, Representative George Washington Julian of Indiana introduced a bill for the government to take the western mines from their discoverers, and sell them at public auction. Representative Fernando Wood proposed that the government send an army to California, Colorado, and Arizona to expel the miners \"by armed force if necessary to protect the rights of the Government in the mineral lands.\" He advocated that the federal government itself work the mines for the benefit of the treasury.\n\nWestern representatives successfully argued that western miners and prospectors were performing valuable services by promoting commerce and settling new territory. In 1864, Congress passed a law that instructed courts deciding questions of contested mining rights to ignore federal ownership, and defer to the miners in actual possession of the ground. The following year, Congressional supporters of western miners tacked legislation legalizing lode (hardrock) mining on public land onto a law regarding ditch and canal rights in California, Oregon, and Nevada. The legislation, known as the \"Chaffee laws\" after Colorado Territorial representative Jerome B. Chaffee, passed and was signed on July 26, 1866.\n\nCongress extended similar rules to placer mining claims in the \"placer law\" signed into law on July 9, 1870.\n\nThe Chaffee law of 1869 and the placer law of 1871 were combined into the General Mining Act of 1872. The mining law of 1866 had given discoverers rights to stake mining claims to extract gold, silver, cinnabar (the principal ore of mercury) and copper. When Congress passed the General Mining Act of 1872, the wording was changed to \"or other valuable deposits,\" giving greater scope to the law. The 1872 law was codified as 30 U.S.C. §§ 22-42\n\nThe 1872 act also granted extralateral rights to lode claims, and fixed the maximum size of lode claims as 1500 feet (457m) long and 600 feet (183m) wide.\n\nThe Act of 1872 also set the price for land assumed under the mining act:\n\nFORTY-SECOND CONGRESS. Sess. II Ch. 152. 1872. (approved July ninth, eighteen hundred and seventy) a patent shall issue for the placer-claim, including such vein or lode, upon the payment of five dollars per acre such vein or lode claim, and twenty-five feet of surface on each side thereof. The reminder of the placer-claim, or any placer-claim not embracing any vein or lode claim, shall be paid for at the rate of two dollars and fifty cents per acre, together with all costs of proceedings;.\nIt set the price of the land claim to range $2.50 to $5.00 per acre. This price set by law has remained the same since 1872.\n\nInvestors in an alleged diamond deposit in the western United States that became known as the Diamond Hoax of 1872 paid Benjamin F. Butler for amending the General Mining Act of 1872 to include the terms \"valuable mineral deposits\" in order to allow legal mining claims in the diamond fields.\n\nThe Mineral Policy Center estimates that mining companies extract $2 billion to $3 billion in minerals from public lands every year. From 1872 to 1993, mining companies produced more than $230 billion from lands claimed under the Act, according to the Mineral Policy Center.\n\nA mining claim is the right to explore for and extract minerals from a tract of land.\n\nClaim staking is the required procedure of marking the boundaries of the mining claim, typically with wooden posts or substantial piles of rocks. Each western state has slightly different requirements for claim staking. Once the claim is staked, the prospector documents the claim by filing required forms. Originally the forms were filed with the mining district recorder; today they are filed with the Clerk of the County in which the claim is located, and with the US Bureau of Land Management. Papers are likewise filed to document annual assessment work.\n\nA lode claim, also known in California as a quartz claim, is a claim over a hard rock deposit.\n\nA placer claim is a claim over gold-bearing sand or gravel, often along a stream or river.\n\nThe mining law opens up land in the public domain, that is, federal land that has been owned by the federal government since it became part of the United States, and that has never been set aside for a specific use. Land dedicated for specific uses such as the White House lawn, national parks, or wilderness areas, is not subject to mineral entry. Land west of the Great Plains managed by the US Forest Service or the Bureau of Land Management, unless designated as wilderness area, is generally open to mining claims. Federal land on or east of the Great Plains was generally acquired by the federal government through purchase, and so is not considered public domain, and is not subject to mining claims.\n\nThe mining law applies to some mineral products, but not others, and the list has changed over time. Since 1920, the list of locatable minerals does not include petroleum, coal, phosphate, sodium, and potassium. Rights to explore for and extract these are leased through competitive bidding. Common construction material such as sand and gravel are obtained by purchase.\n\nAll mining claims are initially unpatented claims, which give the right only for those activities necessary to exploration and mining, and last only as long as the claim is worked every year. For instance, the failure to prosecute the work on the tunnel for six months is considered the abandonment of rights to all the undiscovered veins on the line of the tunnels. In addition, at least $100 worth of labor shall be performed or improvements made annually. If this does not occur, the claim or mine upon which such failure occurred shall be made to relocation in the same manner as if no location of the same had ever been made. The original mining law gave miners the opportunity to obtain \"patents\" (deeds from the government), much as farmers could obtain title under the Homestead Act. The owner of a patented claim can put it to any legal use. The process of patenting claims has been perhaps the most controversial part of the mining law. Because of a Congress-imposed moratorium, the federal government has not accepted any new applications for mining claim patents since October 1, 1994.\n\nThe 1872 law granted extra lateral rights to owners of lode claims. This gave the owners of the surface outcrop of a vein the right to follow and mine the vein wherever it led, even if its subsurface extension continued beneath other mining claims. This provision, also known as the law of the apex led to lengthy litigation and even underground battles, especially in Butte, Montana and the Comstock Lode.\n\nThe acquisition of mining rights on public land in the West is mostly governed by the 1872 act. Subsequent changes to the law include:\n\nProvisions of the 1872 Mining Law were changed with the implementation of the 1976 Federal Land Policy Management Act (FLPMA) effective as of January 1981. Many of the provisions of FLPMA revised the surface uses allowed on mining claims under the 1872 mining law by halting or restricting unnecessary or undue degradation of the public lands. The regulation portion of the FLPMA is found at 43 CFR 3809 (\"Surface Management regulations\"). These regulations were updated and the final rules published in December 2001. These rules effectively replace many of the 1872 Mining Law provisions and require mining reclamation, financial guarantees for reclamation to the Federal government, mining claim occupation permits and detailed Mining Plans of Operations to be submitted to the governing agencies before disturbing the surface.\n\nThe Democratic control of Congress from 2007-2011 brought a new chair to the resources committee: Rep. Richard Pombo (R, California) lost the 2006 election and was replaced by Nick Rahall from West Virginia, who has been a strong critic of the mining industry.\n\nHowever others, such as Rep. Steve Pearce (R-New Mexico), ranking Republican on the minerals subcommittee and Rep. Don Young (R-Alaska) believe that the 2001 Surface Management regulations address modern day concerns and that implementing further restrictions on the industry or imposing royalties would force even more of the domestic mining industry out of the country. As stated by Congressman Pearce, \"Why would we as a nation want to send our metals and uranium mining off shore, then wind up reliant on foreign countries for the raw materials we need for our industries and new power plants. We need to learn from past mistakes such as our reliance on the middle east for our petroleum products.\"\n\nOn November 1, 2007, the US House passed the Hardrock Mining and Reclamation Act of 2007 by a vote of 244-116. The bill would have permanently ended new patents for mining claims, imposed a royalty of 4% of gross revenues on existing mining extracting from unpatented mining claims, and placed an 8% royalty on new mining operations. Mining of private mineral rights (including patented mining claims) would not have been affected. Seventy percent of the royalty money would have gone to a cleanup fund for past abandoned mining operations, and 30% to affected communities. The National Mining Association maintained that, in combination with existing federal, state, and local taxes, the royalty imposed by the bill would have burdened US mining with the highest effective tax rate in the world. The bill was not acted upon by the Senate, and died at the end of the 110th Congress in January 2009.\n\nThe Hardrock Mining and Reclamation Act of 2009 was introduced in the US Senate by Jeff Bingaman (D-New Mexico), but died in committee.\n\nThe proposed bill provided that the secretary of the interior will establish a royalty rate of from 8% to 15% of the value of locateable mineral production from any new mines on federal mineral lands. Mines in production on the date of the bill's enactment would not be subject to the royalty. In addition, a reclamation tax of from 0.3% to 1%, the rate set by the secretary of the interior, would be levied on all hardrock mining operations, new and existing, on federal, state, private, and tribal lands. The royalties and reclamation taxes would be used to reclaim abandoned hardrock mines.\n\nThe proposed legislation was backed by the Obama administration. Interior Secretary Ken Salazar stated \"There is a new administration in town, and we want to see the 1872 mining law reformed.\" However, in 2010, Senate majority leader, Senator Harry Reid (D-NV), who was thought to oppose the bill as written, announced that, due to other legislative priorities, the bill would not be acted upon before Congress adjourned, and so the bill died at the end of the 111th United States Congress in January 2011.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8160680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8160680", "title": "Genetically modified organism containment and escape", "text": "Genetically modified organism containment and escape\n\nSince the advent of genetic engineering in the 1970s, concerns have been raised about the dangers of the technology. Laws, regulations, and treaties were created in the years following to contain genetically modified organisms and prevent their escape.\n\nNevertheless, there are several examples of failure to keep GM crops separate from conventional ones.\n\nThe development of a regulatory framework concerning genetic engineering began in 1975, at Asilomar, California. The first use of Recombinant DNA (rDNA) technology had just been successfully accomplished by Stanley Cohen and Herbert Boyer two years previously and the scientific community recognized that as well as benefits this technology could also pose some risks. The Asilomar meeting recommended a set of guidelines regarding the cautious use of recombinant technology and any products resulting from that technology. The Asilomar recommendations were voluntary, but in 1976 the US National Institute of Health (NIH) formed a rDNA advisory committee. This was followed by other regulatory offices (the United States Department of Agriculture (USDA), Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) and Food and Drug Administration (FDA)), effectively making all rDNA research tightly regulated in the USA. In 1982 the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) released a report into the potential hazards of releasing genetically modified organisms into the environment as the first transgenic plants were being developed. As the technology improved and genetically organisms moved from model organisms to potential commercial products the USA established a committee at the Office of Science and Technology (OSTP) to develop mechanisms to regulate the developing technology. In 1986 the OSTP assigned regulatory approval of genetically modified plants in the US to the USDA, FDA and EPA.\n\nThe Cartagena Protocol on Biosafety was adopted on 29 January 2000 and entered into force on 11 September 2003. It is an international treaty that governs the transfer, handling, and use of genetically modified (GM) organisms. It is focussed on movement of GMOs between countries and has been called a de facto trade agreement. One hundred and fifty-seven countries are members of the Protocol and many use it as a reference point for their own regulations.\n\nIn the context of agriculture and food and feed production, co-existence means using cropping systems with and without genetically modified crops in parallel. In some countries, such as the US, co-existence is not governed by any single law but instead is managed by regulatory agencies and tort law. In other regions, such as Europe, regulations require that the separation and the identity of the respective food and feed products must be maintained at all stages of the production process.\n\nMany consumers are critical of genetically modified plants and their products, while, conversely, most experts in charge of GMO approvals do not perceive concrete threats to health or the environment. The compromise chosen by some countries - notably the European Union - has been to implement regulations specifically governing co-existence and traceability. Traceability has become commonplace in the food and feed supply chains of most countries in the world, but the traceability of GMOs is made more challenging by the addition of very strict legal thresholds for unwanted mixing. Within the European Union, since 2001, conventional and organic food and feedstuffs can contain up to 0.9% of authorised GM material without being labelled GM (any trace of non-authorised GM products and would cause shipments to be rejected.).\n\nIn the US there is no legislation governing the co-existence of neighboring farms growing organic and GM crops; instead the US relies on a \"complex but relaxed\" combination of three federal agencies (FDA, EPA, and USDA/APHIS) and the common law tort system, governed by state law, to manage risks of co-existence. In the face of continuing concerns about the economic losses that might be suffered by organic farmers by unintended intermixing, the US Secretary of Agriculture convened an Advisory Committee on Biotechnology and 21st Century Agriculture (AC21) to study the issue and make recommendations as to whether to address these concerns and if so, how. economic losses to farmers caused by unintended presence of genetically engineered materials, as well as how such mechanisms might work. The members of AC21 included representatives of the biotechnology industry, the organic food industry, farming communities, the seed industry, food manufacturers, State government, consumer and community development groups, the medical profession, and academic researchers. The AC21 recommended that a study should be conducted to answer the question of whether and to what extent there are any economic losses to US organic farmers; recommended that if the losses are serious, that a crop insurance program for organic farmers be put in place, and that an education program should be undertaken to ensure that organic farmers are putting appropriate contracts in place for their crops and that neighboring GM crop farmers are taking appropriate containment measures. Overall the report supported a diverse agriculture system in which many different farming systems could co-exist.\n\nTo limit mixing in the first stages of production, researchers and politicians are developing codes of good agricultural practice for GM crops. In addition to the thorough cleaning of machinery, recommended measures include the establishment of \"isolation distances\" and \"pollen barriers\". Isolation distances are the minimum distances required between GM and non-GM cultivations for most of the GM pollen to fall to the ground before reaching non-GM plants. Pollen barriers attempt actively catch pollen, and can consist of hedges and trees which physically hinder pollen movement. Pollen barriers consisting of conventional crops of the same species as the GM crop have a special advantage, as the conventional plants not only physically limit the GM pollen flow, but also produce competitive, conventional pollen. During harvest, the buffer strip of conventional crops is considered part of the GM crop yield.\n\nIn addition to agricultural measures, there may be also biological tools to prevent the genetically modified crop from fertilising conventional fields. Researchers are investigating methods either to prevent GM crops from producing pollen at all (for example male-sterile plants), or to develop GM crops with pollen that nonetheless does not contain the additional, genetically engineered material. In an example of the latter, transplastomic plants can be generated in which the genetic modification has been integrated in the DNA of chloroplasts - the cell nucleus contains no transgenes and thus the pollen contains no chloroplasts and thus no transgenes. Two important research projects on co-existence are and Co-Extra. With the end of the de facto moratorium on genetically modified plants in Europe, several research programmes (e.g. SIGMEA, Co-Extra, and Transcontainer) have begun investigating biological containment strategies for GMOs.\n\nAnother approach, developed recently, is the generation of transplastomic plants. As the chloroplasts of plants are maternally inherited, the transgenes are not spread by pollen thus achieving biological containment.\n\nWhile SIGMEA was focused on co-existence at the farm level, Co-Extra studies co-existence along the whole production chain, and has a second focus on the traceability of GMOs, since co-existence cannot work without traceability. To be able to monitor and enforce compliance with co-existence regulations, authorities require the ability to trace, detect and identify GMOs.\n\nSince GM-free products yield higher prices in many countries, some governments have introduced limits for the mixing of both production systems, with compensation for non-GM farmers for economic losses in cases where mixing inadvertently occurred. One tool for compensation is a liability fund, to which all GM farmers, and sometimes GM seed producers, contribute.\n\nMixing can occur already at the agricultural stage. Fundamentally, two reasons exist for the presence of GMOs in the harvest of a non-GM cultivation: first, that the seed has been contaminated already or, secondly, that the plants in the non-GM field have received pollen from neighbouring GM fields. Mixing may also occur post-harvest, anywhere in the production chain.\n\nIn 1997, Percy Schmeiser discovered that canola growing on his farm was genetically modified to be resistant to Roundup although he had not planted GM seed. He had initially discovered that some canola growing by a roadside along one of his fields was Roundup resistant when he was killing weeds along the road; this led him to spray a 3- to 4‑acre section of his adjacent field and 60% of the canola survived. Schmeiser harvested the seed from the surviving, Roundup resistant plants, and planted the seed in 1998. Monsanto sued Schmeiser for patent infringement for the 1998 planting. Schmeiser claimed that because the 1997 plants grew from seed that was blown into his field from neighboring fields, that he owned the harvest and was entitled to do with it whatever he wished, including saving the seeds from the 1997 harvest and planting them in 1998. The case went to the Supreme Court which took the case and held for Monsanto by a 5‑4 vote in late May 2004. The case is widely cited or referenced by the anti-GM community in the context of a fear of a company claiming ownership of a farmer’s crop based on the inadvertent presence of GM pollen grain or seed. \"The court record shows, however, that it was not just a few seeds from a passing truck, but that Mr Schmeiser was growing a crop of 95–98% pure Roundup Ready plants, a commercial level of purity far higher than one would expect from inadvertent or accidental presence. The judge could not account for how a few wayward seeds or pollen grains could come to dominate hundreds of acres without Mr Schmeiser’s active participation, saying ‘. . .none of the suggested sources could reasonably explain the concentration or extent of Roundup Ready canola of a commercial quality evident from the results of tests on Schmeiser’s crop’\" – in other words, the original presence of Monsanto seed on his land in 1997 was indeed inadvertent, but the crop in 1998 was entirely purposeful.\n\nIn 1999 scientists in Thailand claimed they discovered glyphosate-resistant genetically modified wheat that was not yet approved for release in a grain shipment from the Pacific Northwest of the United States, even though transgenic wheat had never been approved for sale and was only ever grown in test plots. No one could explain how the transgenic wheat got into the food supply.\n\nIn 2000, Aventis StarLink corn, which had been approved only as animal feed due to concerns about possible allergic reactions in humans, was found contaminating corn products in U.S. supermarkets and restaurants. This corn became the subject of a widely publicized recall, when Taco Bell taco shells were found to contain the corn, eventually resulting in the recall of over 300 products. It was the first-ever recall of a genetically modified food. The registration for the Starlink varieties was voluntarily withdrawn by Aventis in October 2000.\n\nIn 2005, scientists at the UK Centre for Ecology and Hydrology reported the first evidence of horizontal gene transfer of pesticide resistance to weeds, in a few plants from a single season; they found no evidence that any of the hybrids had survived in subsequent seasons.\n\nIn 2006, American exports of rice to Europe were interrupted when the U.S. crop was contaminated with rice containing the LibertyLink modification, which had not been approved for release. An investigation by the USDA’s Animal and Plant Health Inspection Service (APHIS) was unable to determine the cause of the contamination.\n\nIn 2007, the U.S. Department of Agriculture fined Scotts Miracle-Gro $500,000 when modified genetic material from creeping bentgrass, a new golf-course grass Scotts had been testing, was found within close relatives of the same genus (\"Agrostis\") as well as in native grasses up to away from the test sites, released when freshly cut grass was blown by the wind.\n\nIn 2009 the government of Mexico created a regulatory pathway for approval of genetically modified maize, but because Mexico is the center of diversity for maize, concerns have been raised about the effect that genetically modified maize could have on local strains. A 2001 report in \"Nature\" presented evidence that Bt maize was cross-breeding with unmodified maize in Mexico, although the data in this paper was later described as originating from an artifact and \"Nature\" stated that \"the evidence available is not sufficient to justify the publication of the original paper\". A subsequent large-scale study, in 2005, failed to find any evidence of contamination in Oaxaca. However, other authors have stated that they also found evidence of cross-breeding between natural maize and transgenic maize.\n\nA study published in 2010 by scientists at the University of Arkansas, North Dakota State University, California State University and the US Environmental Protection Agency showed that about 83 percent of wild or weedy canola tested contained genetically modified herbicide resistance genes. According to the researchers, the lack of reports in the US suggests inadequate oversight and monitoring protocols are in place in the US. The development of weeds resistant to glyphosate, the most commonly applied herbicide, could mean that farmers must return to more labour-intensive methods to control weeds, use more dangerous herbicides or till the soil (so increasing then risk of erosion). A 2010 report by the National Academy of Sciences stated that the advent of glyphosate-herbicide resistant weeds could cause the genetically engineered crops to lose their effectiveness unless farmers also use other established weed management strategies. In Australia, some of a 2010 planting of Monsanto's Roundup-Ready (RR) canola blew across a neighboring organic farm. The organic farm lost its organic certification and the organic farmer sued the GM farmer - so far without success. The certifier called it \"contamination\" and in the 2014 judgement the judge called it an \"incursion\" and rejected claims for nuisance, negligence and damages.\n\nIn 2013, glyphosate-resistant genetically modified wheat that was not yet approved for release, but which had been declared safe for consumption in the USA, was discovered in a farm in Oregon, growing as a weed or \"volunteer plant\". The wheat had been created by Monsanto, and was a strain that was field-tested from 1998 to 2005 and was in the American regulatory approval process before Monsanto withdrew it based on concern that importers would avoid the crop. The last field test in Oregon had occurred in 2001. Volunteer wheat from a field two miles away owned by the same farmer and planted with the same seed was tested and it was not found to be glyphosate-resistant. Monsanto was liable for fines of up to $1 million, if violations of the Plant Protection Act were found. According to Monsanto it was \"mystified\" by its appearance, having destroyed all the material it held after completing trials in 2004 and because they did not think that seed left in the ground or pollen transfer could account for it. Later in the month, Monsanto suggested that the presence of the wheat was likely an act of \"sabotage\". The discovery could have threatened U.S. wheat exports, which totaled $8.1 billion in 2012; the US is the world's largest wheat exporter. \"New Scientist\" reported that the variety of wheat was rarely imported into Europe and doubted that the discovery of the wheat would affect Europe, but more likely destined for Asia. As a result of the discovery of the unapproved strain, Japan and South Korea halted wheat orders from the United States, leaving wheat growers in neighboring communities unable to decide what to plant next season. The crop growing when the genetically modified wheat was discovered had already been sold or insured. On June 14, 2013, the USDA announced: \"As of today, USDA has neither found nor been informed of anything that would indicate that this incident amounts to more than a single isolated incident in a single field on a single farm. All information collected so far shows no indication of the presence of GE wheat in commerce.\" As of August 30, while the source of the GM wheat remained unknown, Japan, South Korea and Taiwan had all resumed placing orders, and the export market resumed. The Oregon wheat commissioner, Blake Rowe, said that \"the overall economic impact has been minimal\".\n\n"}
{"id": "602148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=602148", "title": "Green liberalism", "text": "Green liberalism\n\nGreen liberalism, or liberal environmentalism, is liberalism that includes green politics in its ideology. Green liberals are usually liberal on social issues and \"green\" on economic issues. The term \"green liberalism\" was coined by political philosopher Marcel Wissenburg in his 1998 book \"Green Liberalism: The Free and The Green Society\". He argues that liberalism must reject the idea of absolute property rights and accept restraints that limit the freedom to abuse nature and natural resources. However, he rejects the control of population growth and any control over the distribution of resources as incompatible with individual liberty, instead favoring supply-side control: more efficient production and curbs on overproduction and over-exploitation. This view tends to dominate the movement, although critics say it actually puts individual liberties above sustainability.\n\nGreen liberalism values the Earth very highly, emphasizing the importance of the planet being passed down to the next generation unharmed. Green liberalism accepts that the natural world is in a state of flux and does not seek to conserve the natural world as it is. However, it does seek to minimize the damage done by the human species on the natural world and to aid the regeneration of damaged areas. Green liberalism seeks to combine liberal democratic institutions and tenets such as equality and freedom of the individual with environmental protections that seek to reduce major threats to the environment like overconsumption and air pollution.\n\nOn economic issues, green liberals take a position somewhere between classical liberalism (on the center/center-right) and social liberalism (on the center/center-left): green liberals may favor slightly less government involvement than social liberals, but far more than classical liberals. Some green liberals practice free-market environmentalism and thus share some values with rightist classical liberalism or libertarianism. This is one of a few reasons why a blue-green alliance is possible in politics.\n\nThe historian Conrad Russell, a British Liberal Democrat member of the House of Lords, dedicated a chapter of his book \"The Intelligent Person's Guide to Liberalism\" to the subject of green liberalism. In a literary sense, the term \"Green Liberalism\" was coined, however, by political philosopher Marcel Wissenburg in his 1998 book \"Green Liberalism: The Free and The Green Society\"., among others.\n\nGreen Liberal Democrats\n\nThe existence of a Green liberal group predates Wissenburg`s book by at least ten years in the UK when a pressure group was formed within the newly merged Liberal Democrats at a meeting in Nottingham addressed (as the keynote speaker) by Simon Hughes MP Simon Hughes. The Green Liberal Democrats emerged from this inaugural meeting which had been organised by the Chair of the pre-existing Liberal Ecology Group (LEG) which had itself been set up eleven years previously in 1977. Keith Melton, one of the earliest members of LEG (its long title was the Liberal Ecology Group for Economic and Social Reform) was, at the time of the merger between the Liberal Party and the SDP in 1988, a senior lecturer in International Marketing at Nottingham Trent University, so it made sense to call that meeting in Nottingham. Most of the delegates at that meeting were LEG members, although there was a modest contingent from the SDP \"Green Group\" \n\nThe Liberal Ecology Group had been campaigning within the Liberal Party for years, pushing for a different, zero growth strategy for economics, following the philosophy elucidated in the Club of Rome`s report \"Limits to Growth\". They also campaigned on air pollution issues, calling for the banning of lead in petrol for example and the banning of HFCs which were known to damage the ozone layer.\n\nThe Green Liberal Democrats has been a very active pressure group within the Liberal Democrats over the years and in 2018 celebrated 30 years of existence with a conference, also held in Nottingham, also organised by Keith Melton and also with (now Sir) Simon Hughes as the initial speaker. The significance of the group and its influence on the party was marked by other key speakers at the 2018 conference, including one quarter of the current Liberal Democrats` parliamentary representatives in the House of Commons. Sir Ed Davey MP related the environmental impact of the Liberal Democrats in the coalition years, establishing a Green Investment Bank (subsequently sold off by the Tory government)\n\nWera Hobhouse MP updated the Green approach to Air pollution and Sir Vince Cable MP, leader of the Liberal Democrats, and Honorary Professor of Economics at Nottingham University, the venue for the 2018 GLD conference, had the task of reviewing how the concept of Sustainable Development withstood the ravages of time. Cable was one of the co-authors of the Brundtland Commission report in 1987 which first introduced the sustainable development concept, championed by Gro Harlem Brundtland, the Commission`s Chair (and three-time Prime Minister of Norway).\n\nOne of the key early successes of the Green Liberal Democrats, and its new Chair, Keith Melton, was to ensure that the preamble to the Liberal Democrat constitution had a key reference to Green issues at the heart of the party with the following sentence appearing immediately after the first paragraph defining Liberal Philosophy - \"We believe that each generation is responsible for the fate of our planet and, by safeguarding the balance of nature and the environment, for the long term continuity of life in all its forms.\"\n\nThe Liberal Party of Canada under Stéphane Dion placed the environment at the front of its political agenda, proposing an ecotax and tax shift called the Green Shift. Similarly, the British Liberal Democrats have drawn on the same concept to propose a \"Green Tax Switch\".\n\nOne kind of green liberalism is called green neoliberalism, which became significant and increasingly prominent in world institutions beginning in the 1980s. In this decade, the two main institutions of global development, the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank, began to face increasing global outrage as a result of their structural adjustment plans, which were loans with severe conditions on debt-ridden countries. The conditions focused on austerity measures, e.g. reducing government control of the market and provision of social services and liberalizing trade, thus enabling corporations from the Global North to enter into developing countries and out-compete local markets. This caused social unrest to increase on many fronts: farmers were losing their livelihoods to large corporations importing artificially cheap, subsidized stable crops from the Global North. Industrialized agriculture and agronomy became the status quo in both research institutions and practice, bringing with it many environmental and social costs.. Companies could move their operations to countries where labor was cheaper much more easily, meaning some people lost their jobs while others accepted very low wages. People, social movements and non-governmental organizations began to openly criticize and blame the World Bank, International Monetary Fund and World Trade Organization for being the root cause of the food crises, job losses and environmental degradation. This was picked up by media in the Global North as well, adding to the shift of the view of the Global South as \"happy recipients of Bank Aid\" to very real and vivid images of bread riots, protests, mass marches and fasts. The pressure was heightened by the increasingly prominent environmental movement, which brought attention to the way that business as usual economics did not account for environmental costs, the largest of which, which is in turn connected to many other problems, is human-caused climate change.\n\nIn response to this criticism, the World Bank first responded with denial. When this did not prove effective, it completely turned around and decided to make significant changes in its organization. Led by actors within the Bank who were intent on reforming it in response to global criticism, the Bank now made the environment one of its primary focuses. Whereas in 1985 the World Bank had only five staff working on environmental issues, with a budget of less than $15 million, by 1995 it had more than three hundred environment-related staff, with almost one billion dollars to work with. An entirely new Environment Department was created, which had to approve the environmental sustainability of large-scale projects before they were implemented.\n\nThus began a new era of green neoliberalism, in which the World Bank and its fellow institutions did not let go of their neoliberal ideology, i.e. their commitment to free-market economics, low regulation, free trade, and so on, but at the same time adopted the mainstream rhetoric of sustainability and environmental consciousness. This kind of green liberalism is mainly economic and it is supported by a range of people, both socially liberal and socially conservative. It is related to, if not synonymous, with eco-capitalism.\n\nIn the larger context of the history of development, this transition follows a trajectory that began with modernization theory and a project to modernize developing countries, followed by the globalization project, where free-market and free-trade was meant to help countries develop, which was then succeeded by the sustainability project. The green neoliberal view of sustainability is one of weak sustainability, which contrasts with many ecologists' view of strong sustainability.\n\n"}
{"id": "34517264", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34517264", "title": "Handels-og Kontorfunktionaerernes Forbund I Danmark v Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening, acting on behalf of Danfoss", "text": "Handels-og Kontorfunktionaerernes Forbund I Danmark v Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening, acting on behalf of Danfoss\n\nHandels-og Kontorfunktionaerernes Forbund I Danmark v Dansk Arbejdsgiverforening, acting on behalf of Danfoss (1989) C-109/88 is an EU labour law case, which held that if an employer is to justify indirect discrimination, measures taken must be directly related to being able to do the job.\n\nPay in the workplace was set according to adaptability, training and seniority. The effect was that women were paid less.\n\nECJ held that adaptability to variable hours, place of work or training was justifiable only if these criteria were ‘of importance for the performance of specific tasks entrusted to the employee’.\nHowever, it also added that, ‘length of service goes hand in hand with experience and since experience generally enables the employee to perform his duties better, the employer is free to reward it without having to establish the importance it has in the performance of specific tasks entrusted to the employee’.\n"}
{"id": "13222117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13222117", "title": "International Anarchist Congress of Amsterdam", "text": "International Anarchist Congress of Amsterdam\n\nThe International Anarchist Congress of Amsterdam took place from 24 August to 31 August 1907. It gathered delegates from 14 different countries, among which important figures of the anarchist movement, including Errico Malatesta, Luigi Fabbri, Benoît Broutchoux, Pierre Monatte, Amédée Dunois, Emma Goldman, Rudolf Rocker, Christiaan Cornelissen, etc.\n\nThe Belgian and Dutch anarchists were at the initiative of the congress. While the Dutch took care of the material organisation of the event, the Belgians started the publication of the \"Bulletin of the Libertarian Internationale\", which had as main editor Henri Fuss. In December 1906-January 1907, they launched a memo in seven languages calling for an international meeting, which was signed by the anarchist federations of the Netherlands, Belgium, Germany, Bohemia, London (anarchists speaking Yiddish)– it was not signed by any French anarchists. In France, the anarchist movement was divided into those who rejected the very idea of organization, and were therefore opposed to the very idea of an international organisation, and those who put all their hopes in the trade-unions, and thus \"were occupied elsewhere\". Only 8 French anarchists assisted the Congress, including Benoît Broutchoux, Pierre Monatte and René de Marmande.\n\nVarious themes were treated during the Congress, in particular concerning the organization of the anarchist movement and syndicalism. Other issues included popular education, the role of the general strike, and anti-militarism– an International Antimilitarist Congress simultaneously took place in Amsterdam. However, the most important debate concerned the relation between anarchism and syndicalism (or trade-unionism). In the end, a resolution was agreed upon, which stated that \"the ideas of anarchy and organization, far from being incompatibles, as it has sometimes been pretended, complete themselves and enforce each another,\" and concluded on the necessary \"creation of anarchist groups and on the federation of the already created groups.\"\n\nAn Anarchist International was thereafter constituted, composed of an international bureau of 5 members (Errico Malatesta, Rudolf Rocker, Alexander Schapiro, John Turner and Jean Wilquet), with the task of \"creating international anarchist archives\" and to \"connect anarchists from different countries.\" The bureau was sited in London, and a new congress envisioned for 1909. The new International, to which the French anarchists remained hostile, only edited 12 issues of an irregular bulletin. At the end of 1911, the London bureau ceased all activities.\n\nMalatesta and Monatte in particular disagreed on the issue of organization. Upholding the principles of the 1906 Charter of Amiens, which had proclaimed the ideological neutrality of trade-unions and their independence from political parties, Monatte thought that syndicalism, as understood in France, was revolutionary and would create the conditions of a social revolution. Monatte opposed this \"French model\" of neutrality of trade-unions to Russian anarchist trade-unions or to Belgian or German Christian or social-democrat trade-unions.\n\nOn the other hand, Malatesta criticized Monatte, stating that \"syndicalism was not a necessary and sufficient means of social revolution,\" while at the same time supporting (as Monatte) the ideological neutrality of trade-unions, in order not to divide the workers' movement. Malatesta thought that trade-unions were reformist, and could even be, at times, conservative. Along with Cornélissen, he cited as example US trade-unions, where trade-unions composed of qualified workers sometimes worked in opposition to non-qualified workers in order to defend their relatively privileged position. According to Malatesta, anarchists had to also defend this \"Lumpenproletariat\" instead of only working for the improvement of labor conditions. Malatesta underlined divisions of interests inside the workers' movement itself, going so far as to criticize the notion of social class: \"There is no class, at the strict sense of the word, as there are no class interests. Inside the workers' 'class' itself, there is, just as in the bourgeoisie, competition and struggle.\" Henceforth, he thought that workers' solidarity needed a common ideal, which could not be found in the frame of the professional trade-union. If Monatte had criticized the risk of a possible bureaucratization of the trade-unions, while asserting the necessity of maintaining permanent employees in trade-unions, Malatesta categorically denied the legitimacy for an anarchist to become such a permanent employee of a trade-union.\n\nFinally, Malatesta criticized over-idealization of the general strike, stating that the latter could not, by itself, provoke a revolution, which would necessarily have to pass, according to him, by an armed insurrection.\n\nAccording to some views, this opposition between two visions of the organization of the workers' movement in trade-unions was later on merged in anarcho-syndicalism, which combined the revolutionary conception of trade-unionism with anarchist principles. However, French syndicalists Monatte and Robert Louzon continued to argue for (revolutionary) syndicalist unions independent of any political party or grouping, while Maletesta continued arguing against the syndicalist or anarcho-syndicalist conception of revolutionary unions. To him unions needed to be open to all workers open to activity to defend their conditions, and anarchists should work inside those unions to influence the broadest layer of workers, without wanting to make the unions themselves anarchist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "241185", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=241185", "title": "International Chamber of Commerce", "text": "International Chamber of Commerce\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce (ICC; French: \"Chambre de commerce internationale\") is the largest, most representative business organization in the world. Its 6 million members in over 100 countries have interests spanning every sector of private enterprise.\n\nICC has three main activities: rule setting, dispute resolution, and policy advocacy. Because its member companies and associations are themselves engaged in international business, ICC has unrivalled authority in making rules that govern the conduct of business across borders. Although these rules are voluntary, they are observed in countless thousands of transactions every day and have become part of international trade.\n\nA world network of national committees in over 100 countries advocates business priorities at national and regional level. More than 3,000 experts drawn from ICC’s member companies feed their knowledge and experience into crafting the ICC stance on specific business issues.\n\nICC supports the work of the United Nations, the World Trade Organization, and many other intergovernmental bodies, both international and regional, such as G20 on behalf of international business. ICC was the first organization granted general consultative status with the United Nations Economic and Social Council and UN Observer Status .\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce was founded in 1919 to serve world business by promoting trade and investment, open markets for goods and services, and the free flow of capital. The organization's international secretariat was established in Paris and the ICC's International Court of Arbitration was created in 1923.\n\nICC's first chairman was 20th-century French Minister of Finance Etienne Clémentel. \n\nThere are two ways to become a member of ICC:\n\n1. Through affiliation with an ICC national committee or group.\n\n2. By direct membership with the ICC International Secretariat when a national committee/group has not yet been established in the country/territory.\n\nICC's supreme governing body is the World Council, consisting of representatives of national committees. The World Council elects ICC’s highest officers, including the Chairman and the Vice-Chairman, each of whom serves a two-year term. The Chairman, Vice-Chairman and the Honorary Chairman (the immediate past Chairman) provide the organization with high-level world leadership. They play an important role in ICC section.\n\nStrategic direction for ICC is provided by its executive board, consisting of up to 30 business leaders and ex-officio members. It is elected by the World Council on the recommendation of the Chairmanship. Meeting three times a year, the Executive Board oversees the establishment of ICC’s strategic priorities and the implementation of its policies.\n\nThe ICC International Secretariat, based in Paris, is the operational arm of ICC. It develops and carries out ICC’s work programme, feeding business views into intergovernmental organizations on issues that directly affect business operations. The International Secretariat is led by the Secretary General, who is appointed by the World Council.\n\nIn 92 of the world’s nations, members have established formal ICC structures called national committees. In countries where there is no national committee, companies and organizations such as chambers of commerce and professional associations can become direct members.\n\nThe Finance Committee advises the Executive Board on all financial matters. On behalf of the Executive Board, it prepares the budget and regularly reports to the board. It reviews the financial implications of ICC activities and supervises the flow of revenues and expenses of the organization.\n\nICC's administered dispute resolution services help solve difficulties in international business. ICC Arbitration is a private procedure that leads to a binding and enforceable decision.\n\nThe International Court of Arbitration of the International Chamber of Commerce steers ICC Arbitration and has received over 21,000 cases since its inception in 1923. Over the past decade, the Court's workload has considerably expanded.\n\nThe Court's membership has also grown and now covers 85 countries and territories. With representatives in North America, Latin and Central America, Africa and the Middle East and Asia, the ICC Court has significantly increased its training activities on all continents and in all major languages used in international trade.\n\nICC Dispute Resolution Services exist in many forms:\n\n\nICC policies, rules and standards are prepared by specialized working bodies. Normal procedure requires policy statements first to be adopted by a commission, in consultation with national committees, and then approved by the Executive Board, before they can be regarded as official and public ICC positions.\n\nCommissions examine major policy issues of interest to world business. Each national committee (NC) or group may appoint delegates to represent it at meetings. Officers are appointed by the Chairman and Secretary General in consultation with NCs. Meetings of commissions are normally held twice a year.\n\nTask forces are constituted under the various commissions for a limited period to undertake specific projects and report back to their parent commission. Some task forces may include representatives of more than one commission.\n\nIn September 2011, the International Chamber of Commerce introduced the newly revised consolidated ICC Code of Advertising and Marketing Communication Practice, along with a dedicated website, www.codescentre.com, to guide advertising and marketing professionals around the globe. This Code sets ethical standards and guidelines for businesses using today’s rapidly changing technology, tools and techniques to market products and services. Developed by experts from all sectors of industry and all regions of the world, the code’s purpose is to protect consumers by clearly setting out guidelines for responsible marketing.\n\nThe Code is structured in two main sections—General Provisions and Chapters. The General Provisions section contains fundamental principles and other broad concepts that apply to all marketing in all media. Code Chapters are detailed and apply to specific marketing areas, including: Sales Promotion, Sponsorship, Direct Marketing, Digital Media and Environmental Marketing Claim.\n\nIn 1951, ICC established the World Chambers Federation (WCF), formerly the International Bureau of Chambers of Commerce. WCF is the unique global forum uniting the worldwide network of more than 12,000 chambers of commerce and industry. It aims to facilitate the exchange of best practice and the development of new global products and services for chambers, and foster international partnerships between chambers and other stakeholders to help local businesses grow. WCF is a non-political, non-governmental body, with its membership comprising local, regional, national, bilateral and transnational chambers of commerce, as well as public-law and private-law chambers.\n\nWCF was established by ICC and its chamber members following a resolution at the conclusion of the World Congress of Chambers of Commerce (Rome 1950). At its inaugural committee meeting held in Paris in December 1950, WCF was to be first known as the International Information Bureau of Chambers of Commerce. As its role expanded and grew during the 1960s, its name changed to become the International Bureau of Chambers of Commerce and by June 2001, it became known as the World Chambers Federation.\n\nWith a history spanning over 400 years, chambers today exist in almost every country and business community around the world. Chambers of Commerce and Industry can be defined as:\n\nWCF also organizes the World Chambers Congress every two years in a different region of the world. The Congress is the only international forum for chamber leaders and professionals to share best practices, exchange insights, develop networks, address the latest business issues affecting their communities, and learn about new areas of innovation from chambers around the world.\n\nDuring the Congress, WCF also announces the winners of World Chambers Competition, the only global awards program to recognize the most innovative projects undertaken by chambers of commerce and industry from around the world.\n\nStaged all over the world, ICC events range from large topical conferences to training sessions for small groups. These smaller courses share ICC’s expertise on commercial arbitration and dispute resolution mechanisms as well as ICC's trade tools including Incoterms® rules, uniform customs and practice for documentary letter of credit (UCP) and international contracts.\n\nICC Publications is the publishing arm of the International Chamber of Commerce providing business with essential resources in three broad categories: ICC rules and guidelines, practical commentaries, and reference works. The content of ICC’s publications is derived from the work of ICC commissions, institutions and individual international experts.\n\nICC publishes mainly for international lawyers, arbitrators, bankers, traders and students covering topics such as international banking, international trade reference and terms, law and arbitration, counterfeiting and fraud and model commercial contracts. The best known publications, Uniform Customs and Practice for Documentary Credits and Incoterms®, have been translated into more than 30 languages.\n\nICC offers its publications not only in the traditional paper format, but also in electronic format, eBooks, on the ICC Store.\n\nICC Commercial Crime Services (CCS) provides the world business community with a centralized commercial crime-fighting body. It draws on the worldwide resources of its members in the fight against commercial crime on many fronts.\n\nFrom its base in London, and comprising three distinct bureaux, CCS operates according to two basic principles: to prevent commercial crime and to investigate and help prosecute criminals involved in commercial crime.\n\nThe specialized divisions of CCS are:\n\nICC established BASCAP to take a leading role in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy.\n\nBASCAP unites the global business community to more effectively identify and address intellectual property rights issues and petition for greater commitments by local, national and international officials in the enforcement and protection of IPR.\n\nThe work of BASCAP aims to:\n\nBASCAP speaks out on the damage caused by counterfeiting and piracy, including:\n\nICC set up BASIS (Business Action to Support the Information Society) in mid-2006 to\nspeak out on a wide range of critical issues, including:\n\nThe International Chamber of Commerce (ICC), in partnership with the Qatar Chamber, launched the ICC Business World Trade Agenda initiative in March 2012 to provide private sector leadership in shaping a new multilateral trade policy agenda. The aim of this initiative is ultimately to drive World Trade Organization (WTO) multilateral trade talks out of an 11-year deadlock and \"beyond Doha\".\n\nThe World Trade Agenda is a strong business-led initiative to bolster rules-based trade. The WTO lends its support to this initiative by engaging business to provide recommendations to advance global trade negotiations.\n\nThe World Trade Agenda aims to:\n\nSince its launch, the World Trade Agenda initiative has organized consultations with CEOs and senior executives in all major regions of the world to gather input and validation of its recommendations. These business priorities were released during the ICC World Trade Agenda Summit on 22 April 2013 in Doha.\n\nThe Agreement on Trade Facilitation was finally adopted at the WTO's 9th Ministerial Conference on 7 December 2013. It was the first major agreement on trade facilitation to have been reached since the creation of the WTO.\n\nSince 1946, ICC has held top-level consultative status with the United Nations and a close working relationship with its specialized agencies. The current ICC Permanent Representative to the UN is Andrew Wilson. On 21 December 2016 the International Chamber of Commerce was granted Observer status by the General Assembly of the United Nations on the basis of General Assembly Resolution (A/RES/71/156) On 13 December 2016, ICC was granted Observer Status by 193 members of the UN General Assembly. ICC took up its position as Observer to the General Assembly on 1 January 2017.\n\nThe ICC Research Foundation (ICCRF) was established in 2010 by ICC to commission independent research that contributes to public knowledge, education and debate on the benefits of global trade and investment. The research projects funded by the ICCRF and conducted by leading international researchers and organizations, contribute to the following aims: \n\nThe ICC Research Foundation is governed by a board of trustees, who include Cherie Nursalim and Gerard Worms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32121672", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32121672", "title": "Isaac Wunder order", "text": "Isaac Wunder order\n\nAn Isaac Wunder order is an order issued by an Irish court restricting the ability of a vexatious litigant to institute legal proceedings without leave from that or another court, whether for a specified period of time or indefinitely. It is named after Isaac Wunder, an Irishman who became notorious for instituting a number of actions that were subsequently deemed by the court to be frivolous or vexatious.\nIn the mid-1960s, the plaintiff in \"Keaveney v. Geraghty\" sought damages for libel in proceedings before the High Court. The defendant applied for a stay of proceedings on the grounds that they were, \",\" frivolous and vexatious, and an abuse of process. The court granted the stay, whereupon the plaintiff appealed. The Supreme Court varied the ruling to provide that no further proceedings on the action could be taken without leave of the court.\n\nA few years later, Isaac Wunder sued the Irish Hospitals Trust, also known as the Irish Sweepstake, for claimed sweepstakes winnings. His claims were dismissed as frivolous and vexatious. Wunder appealed. Wunder had made several claims against the defendants on the matter, and in each case the claims had been ruled groundless. In the light of this history of repeated attempts to get a more favourable ruling on the same issue, the Supreme Court issued an order similar to that issued in \"Keaveney\", directing that Wunder could take no further proceedings on the matter at the High Court. Although this was not the first order of its kind issued, it nonetheless became known as the \"Isaac Wunder order\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34893675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34893675", "title": "Judge Advocate General's Corps (United States)", "text": "Judge Advocate General's Corps (United States)\n\nThe Judge Advocate General's Corps, also known as JAG or JAG Corps, is the military justice branch or specialty of the U.S. Air Force, Army, Coast Guard, and Navy. Officers serving in the JAG Corps are typically called judge advocates. \n\nJudge advocates serve primarily as legal advisors to the command to which they are assigned. In this function, they can also serve as the personal legal advisor to their commander. Their advice may cover a wide range of issues dealing with administrative law, government contracting, civilian and military personnel law, law of war and international relations, environmental law, etc. They also serve as prosecutors for the military when conducting courts-martial. They are charged with both the defense and prosecution of military law as provided in the Uniform Code of Military Justice. Highly experienced officers of the JAG Corps often serve as military judges in courts-martial and courts of inquiry.\n\nThe services also have enlisted soldiers with specific paralegal training that provide support to judge advocates, although accession and scope of duty is also branch-specific. For example, the U.S. Army permits new recruits to become judge advocate enlisted, while the U.S. Navy does not. In addition to acting as paralegals to military attorneys, JAG enlisted often provide limited paralegal services such as drafting commonly used legal documents for service members and their families, providing guidance to unit commands regarding administrative and disciplinary procedure, and acting as notaries.\n\nThe Marine Corps and Coast Guard do not maintain separate JAG Corps, and judge advocates in those services maintain their line-officer status. In the Air Force and Navy, JAG officers only serve in legal positions. Judge advocates in the Army retain eligibility for command, and may be assigned to non-legal positions with permission of the Judge Advocate General, but this is only rarely done; the majority serve in legal positions and their careers are therefore similar to those of the Navy and Air Force.\n\nThe Uniform Code of Military Justice, also known as UCMJ, is the primary legal code through which all internal military justice matters of the United States are governed. The UCMJ applies to all members of the military of the United States, including military retirees as well as members of other federal uniformed services (such as NOAA Corps and the Public Health Service Commissioned Corps) when attached to the military. The UCMJ was created by an act of the United States Congress in 1951 in order to establish relatively consistent systems of military justice in all branches of the nation's armed forces. However, in cases involving very minor disciplinary infractions, each service has somewhat differing procedures. (Such cases are governed by UCMJ Article 15 and are called non-judicial punishment, Captain's Mast (Navy), or Office Hours (Marines).)\n\nIn addition to the Uniform Code of Military Justice, personnel are subject to the terms of the Constitution, other federal laws, and individual state laws where applicable (e.g., whenever the service member is in the United States, unless on a military base with exclusive federal jurisdiction). When a violation of the UCMJ occurs, the matter is handled by the command of the service member. When a violation of a federal or state law occurs, the matter may be handled by local state or federal authorities.\n\nThe forum through which criminal cases are tried in the United States' armed forces is the court-martial. This term also applies to the panel of military officers selected to serve as the finders of fact or \"jury\". (In other words, they fulfil the role of a civilian jury in trying criminal cases.) The Uniform Code of Military Justice outlines three distinct types of courts martial.\n\n\n\n\nThe Uniform Code of Military Justice provides for several tiers of appeal. All cases are reviewed by the commander convening the court (the convening authority) who, as a matter of command prerogative, may approve, disapprove, or modify the findings and/or sentence. The commander may not approve a finding of guilty for an offense of which the accused was acquitted nor increase the sentence adjudged. A convicted service member may submit a request for leniency to the convening authority prior to the convening authority's approval of the court-martial sentence.\n\nEach military service and the Coast Guard has a Court of Criminal Appeals, which is composed of panels of three appellate military judges:\nThese courts review all cases in which the approved sentence includes death, a punitive discharge, or confinement for at least a year, and all cases referred to it by the service Judge Advocate General. The court of criminal appeals \"may affirm only such findings of guilty and the sentence or such part of the sentence, as it finds correct in law and fact and determines, on the basis of the entire record, should be approved. In considering the record, it may weigh the evidence, judge the credibility of witnesses, and determine controverted questions of fact, recognizing that the trial court saw and heard the witnesses.\" Article 66(c), UCMJ.\n\nThe Court of Appeals for the Armed Forces (CAAF) consists of five civilian judges appointed by the President of the United States, with the advice and consent of the U.S. Senate, to 15-year terms. The CAAF must review cases from all of the military services in which the court of criminal appeals has affirmed a death sentence, cases the Judge Advocates General order sent to the court, and cases appealed from the court of criminal appeals by the accused in which the CAAF finds good cause to grant the petition for review. Unlike the service courts of criminal appeals, the CAAF \"shall take action only with respect to matters of law.\" Article 67(c), UCMJ. Decisions of the CAAF are \"subject to review by the Supreme Court by writ of certiorari.\" Article 67a, UCMJ; this merely confirms Article III, Section 2 of the United States Constitution, granting the Supreme Court appellate jurisdiction in all US cases where it does not have original jurisdiction.\n\nCases not meeting the criteria for review by the service courts of criminal appeals are reviewed in the office of the service Judge Advocate General. Article 69, UCMJ. A death sentence \"may not be executed until approved by the President. In such a case, the President may commute, remit, or suspend the sentence, or any part thereof, as he sees fit. That part of the sentence providing for death may not be suspended.\" Article 71(a), UCMJ.\n\nBesides prosecuting, defending, and presiding over courts-martial, military attorneys advise commanders on issues involving a number of areas of law. Depending on the service, these areas may include the law of war, the rules of engagement and their interpretation, and other operational law issues, government contract law, administrative law, labor law, environmental law, international law, claims against the government (such as under the Federal Tort Claims Act), and information law (such as requests for information in the possession of the military under the Freedom of Information Act). Military attorneys also advise individual servicemembers, military retirees, and their families regarding personal civil legal problems they may have, including drafting wills, fending off creditors, and reviewing leases.\n\nIn addition to being licensed attorneys in any state or territory of the U.S., all military attorneys undergo specialized training to qualify as judge advocates, allowing them to act as trial or defense counsel at military courts-martial. Specialized training takes place at one of three military law centers:\n\nNaval Justice School is the primary training center for Navy, Marine and Coast Guard JAs. Most judge advocates will take additional classes at more than one of these facilities during their time in the JAG Corps.\n\nThe Army's JAG School is the only military law center that has full American Bar Association accreditation. Its graduate course, leading to a Master of Laws degree, is open to judge advocates from all service branches.\n\nNew Army JAG enlisted generally have little to no special legal education prior to enlistment, and very rarely have law licenses; after completing Army Basic, they receive their paralegal training at the Advanced Individual Training Paralegal School at Fort Jackson, South Carolina.\n\nBritain\n\nCanada\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21327215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21327215", "title": "K-factor (fire protection)", "text": "K-factor (fire protection)\n\nIn fire protection engineering, the K-factor formula is used to calculate the discharge rate from a nozzle. Spray Nozzles can be fire sprinklers or water mist nozzles, hose reel nozzles, water monitors and deluge fire system nozzles.\n\nK-Factors calculated in Metric units;\n\nThe flow rate of a nozzle is given by formula_1, where \"q\" is the flow rate in litres per minute (LPM), \"p\" is the pressure at the nozzle in Bar and \"K\" is the \"K-factor\" is given in units of formula_2.\n\nK-Factors have also been calculated and published in English units of PSI and GPM. Within the United States, only English measurements are used. \n\nCare should be exercised not to intermix K-factors from Metric and English units as the resulting factors are not equivalent or interchangeable.\n\n"}
{"id": "51027072", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51027072", "title": "List of Acts of the Parliament of Sri Lanka", "text": "List of Acts of the Parliament of Sri Lanka\n\nThis is a chronological list of Acts passed by the Parliament of Sri Lanka:\n\n"}
{"id": "58839316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58839316", "title": "List of rampage killers (vehicular homicide)", "text": "List of rampage killers (vehicular homicide)\n\nThis list of rampage killers contains those cases where only vehicles were used to attack people. Since it may be quite difficult to distinguish accidents, or cases of reckless driving from those incidents where the driver, or pilot, had the intention to harm others, only those cases are included where it is clear that the vehicle was applied as a weapon and crashed deliberately into people, other vehicles, or buildings. Also, those cases where a rampage killer used an armed vehicle, such as a tank, or a fighter aircraft, to shoot others are listed here. Airliners are not included in this section but in other incidents.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n"}
{"id": "4418123", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4418123", "title": "Ma'aser Sheni", "text": "Ma'aser Sheni\n\nMa'aser Sheni (Hebrew: מעשר שני, lit. \"Second Tithe\") is the eighth tractate of \"Seder Zeraim\" (\"Order of Seeds\") of the \"Mishnah\" and of the \"Talmud\". It concerns the second tithe obligation as well as the laws of Revai.\n"}
{"id": "171951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=171951", "title": "Martin Luther King Jr. Day", "text": "Martin Luther King Jr. Day\n\nMartin Luther King Jr. Day (officially Birthday of Martin Luther King, Jr.) is an American federal holiday marking the birthday of Martin Luther King Jr. It is observed on the third Monday of January each year, which is around King's birthday, January 15. The holiday is similar to holidays set under the Uniform Monday Holiday Act. The earliest Monday for this holiday is January 15 and the latest is January 21.\n\nKing was the chief spokesperson for nonviolent activism in the Civil Rights Movement, which successfully protested racial discrimination in federal and state law. The campaign for a federal holiday in King's honor began soon after his assassination in 1968. President Ronald Reagan signed the holiday into law in 1983, and it was first observed three years later. At first, some states resisted observing the holiday as such, giving it alternative names or combining it with other holidays. It was officially observed in all 50 states for the first time in 2000.\n\nThe idea of Martin Luther King Jr. Day as a holiday was promoted by labor unions in contract negotiations. After King's death, U.S. Representative John Conyers (a Democrat from Michigan) and U.S. Senator Edward Brooke (a Republican from Massachusetts) introduced a bill in Congress to make King's birthday a national holiday. The bill first came to a vote in the U.S. House of Representatives in 1979. However, it fell five votes short of the number needed for passage. Two of the main arguments mentioned by opponents were that a paid holiday for federal employees would be too expensive, and that a holiday to honor a private citizen would be contrary to longstanding tradition (King had never held public office). Only two other figures have national holidays in the U.S. honoring them: George Washington and Christopher Columbus.\n\nSoon after, the King Center turned to support from the corporate community and the general public. The success of this strategy was cemented when musician Stevie Wonder released the single \"Happy Birthday\" to popularize the campaign in 1980 and hosted the Rally for Peace Press Conference in 1981. Six million signatures were collected for a petition to Congress to pass the law, termed by a 2006 article in \"The Nation\" as \"the largest petition in favor of an issue in U.S. history.\"\n\nSenators Jesse Helms and John Porter East (both North Carolina Republicans) led opposition to the holiday and questioned whether King was important enough to receive such an honor. Helms criticized King's opposition to the Vietnam War and accused him of espousing \"action-oriented Marxism\". Helms led a filibuster against the bill and on October 3, 1983, submitted a 300-page document to the Senate alleging that King had associations with communists. New York Senator Daniel Patrick Moynihan declared the document a \"packet of filth\", threw it on the Senate floor and stomped on it.\n\nPresident Ronald Reagan originally opposed the holiday, citing cost concerns. When asked to comment on Helms' accusations that King was a communist, the president said \"We'll know in thirty-five years, won't we?\", in reference to the eventual release of FBI surveillance tapes that had previously been sealed. But on November 2, 1983, Reagan signed a bill, proposed by Representative Katie Hall of Indiana, to create a federal holiday honoring King. The bill had passed the House of Representatives by a count of 338 to 90, a veto-proof margin. The holiday was observed for the first time on January 20, 1986.\n\nThe bill also established the Martin Luther King Jr. Federal Holiday Commission to oversee observance of the holiday, and Coretta Scott King, King's wife, was made a member of this commission for life by President George H. W. Bush in May 1989.\n\nAlthough the federal holiday honoring King was signed into law in 1983 and took effect three years later, not every U.S. state chose to observe the holiday at the state level until 1991, when the New Hampshire legislature created \"Civil Rights Day\" and abolished \"Fast Day\". In 2000, Utah became the last state to have a holiday named after King when \"Human Rights Day\" was officially changed to \"Martin Luther King Jr. Day.\"\n\nIn 1986, Arizona Governor Bruce Babbitt, a Democrat, created a paid state MLK holiday in Arizona by executive order just before he left office, but in 1987, his Republican successor Evan Mecham, citing an attorney general's opinion that Babbitt's order was illegal, reversed Babbitt's decision days after taking office. Later that year, Mecham proclaimed the third Sunday in January to be \"Martin Luther King Jr./Civil Rights Day\" in Arizona, albeit as an unpaid holiday. In 1990, Arizona voters were given the opportunity to vote on giving state employees a paid MLK holiday. That same year, the National Football League threatened to move Super Bowl XXVII, which was planned for Arizona in 1993, if the MLK holiday was voted down. In the November election, the voters were offered two King Day options: Proposition 301, which replaced Columbus Day on the list of paid state holidays, and Proposition 302, which merged Lincoln's and Washington's birthdays into one paid holiday to make room for MLK Day. Both measures failed to pass, with only 49% of voters approving Prop 302, the more popular of the two options; although some who voted \"no\" on 302 voted \"yes\" on Prop 301. Consequently, the state lost the chance to host Super Bowl XXVII, which was subsequently held at the Rose Bowl in Pasadena, California. In a 1992 referendum, the voters, this time given only one option for a paid King Day, approved state-level recognition of the holiday.\n\nOn May 2, 2000, South Carolina governor Jim Hodges signed a bill to make King's birthday an official state holiday. South Carolina was the last state to recognize the day as a paid holiday for all state employees. Prior to this, employees could choose between celebrating Martin Luther King Jr. Day or one of three Confederate holidays.\n\nWhile all states now observe the holiday, some did not name the day after King. For example, in New Hampshire, the holiday was known as \"Civil Rights Day\" until 1999, when the State Legislature voted to change the name of the holiday to Martin Luther King Day.\n\nSeveral additional states have chosen to combine commemorations of King's birthday with other observances:\n\nOverall, in 2007, 33% of employers gave employees the day off, a 2% increase over the previous year. There was little difference in observance by large and small employers: 33% for firms with over 1,000 employees; and, 32% for firms with under 1,000 employees. The observance is most popular among nonprofit organizations and least popular among factories and manufacturers. The reasons for this have varied, ranging from the recent addition of the holiday, to its occurrence just two weeks after the week between Christmas and New Year's Day, when many businesses are closed for part or sometimes all of the week. Additionally, many schools and places of higher education are closed for classes; others remain open but may hold seminars or celebrations of King's message. The observance of MLK Day has led to some colleges and universities extending their Christmas break to include the day as part of break. Some factories and manufacturers used MLK Day as a floating or movable holiday.\n\nThe national Martin Luther King Day of Service was started by former Pennsylvania U.S. Senator Harris Wofford and Atlanta Congressman John Lewis, who co-authored the King Holiday and Service Act. The federal legislation challenges Americans to transform the King Holiday into a day of citizen action volunteer service in honor of King. The federal legislation was signed into law by President Bill Clinton on August 23, 1994. Since 1996, Wofford's former state office director, Todd Bernstein, has been directing the annual Greater Philadelphia King Day of Service, the largest event in the nation honoring King.\n\nSeveral other universities and organizations around the U.S., such as Arizona State University, Greater DC Cares and City Year, participate in the Martin Luther King Jr. Day of Service. In honor of MLK, hundreds of Volunteer Centers, and volunteers across the country donate their time to make a difference on this day.\n\nThe only other official national day of service in the U.S., as designated by the government, is September 11 National Day of Service (9/11 Day).\n\nOne place outside the U.S. where Martin Luther King Jr. Day is observed in the Japanese city of Hiroshima under mayor Tadatoshi Akiba, who holds a special banquet at the mayor's office as an act of unifying his city's call for peace with King's message of human rights.\n\nThe City of Toronto, in Ontario, Canada, is another city that has officially recognized Martin Luther King Jr. Day, although not as a paid holiday: all government services and businesses remain open.\n\nIn 1984, during a visit by the U.S. Sixth Fleet, Navy chaplain Rabbi Arnold Resnicoff conducted the first Israeli presidential ceremony in commemoration of Martin Luther King Jr. Day, held in the President's Residence, Jerusalem. Aura Herzog, wife of Israel's then-President Chaim Herzog, noted that she was especially proud to host this special event, because Israel had a national forest in honor of King, and that Israel and King shared the idea of \"dreams\". Resnicoff continued this theme in his remarks during the ceremony, quoting the verse from Genesis, spoken by the brothers of Joseph when they saw their brother approach, \"Behold the dreamer comes; let us slay him and throw him into the pit, and see what becomes of his dreams.\" Resnicoff noted that, from time immemorial, there have been those who thought they could kill the dream by slaying the dreamer, but – as the example of King's life shows – such people are always wrong.\n\nEvery year, since 1986, the Dr. Martin Luther King Tribute and Dinner is held in Wassenaar, The Netherlands. The Tribute includes young people and veterans of the Civil Rights Movement as well as music. it always ends with everyone holding hands in a circle and singing \"We Shall Overcome.\" The Tribute is held on the last Sunday in January and bridges Dr. King's birthday and Black History Month.\n\n1985–2100\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "847077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=847077", "title": "Maximum harmonisation", "text": "Maximum harmonisation\n\nMaximum harmonisation is a term used in European Union law.\n\nIf a piece of law (usually a directive, but also a regulation on occasion) is described as maximum harmonisation, that means that national law may not exceed the terms of the legislation. In practice, this prohibits gold-plating of European legislation when it is transposed into national law. \n\nIt may also result in the repeal or amendment of existing national law; for example the effect of the Unfair Commercial Practices Directive on the UK Trade Descriptions Act 1968\n\nTraditionally it was fairly uncommon for European legislation to be drafted on this basis. However, deregulation has risen up the political agenda in EU member states, as have concerns that member states occasionally use the national implementation of European law as an opportunity to indulge in backdoor protectionism.\n\nIt is quite common for a directive or recommendation to consist of a mixture of maximum harmonisation and minimum harmonisation clauses.\n"}
{"id": "381424", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=381424", "title": "Most favoured nation", "text": "Most favoured nation\n\nIn international economic relations and international politics, \"most favoured nation\" (MFN) is a status or level of treatment accorded by one state to another in international trade. The term means the country which is the recipient of this treatment must nominally receive equal trade advantages as the \"most favoured nation\" by the country granting such treatment. (Trade advantages include low tariffs or high import quotas.) In effect, a country that has been accorded MFN status may not be treated less advantageously than any other country with MFN status by the promising country. There is a debate in legal circles whether MFN clauses in bilateral investment treaties include only substantive rules or also procedural protections.\n\nThe members of the World Trade Organization (WTO) agree to accord MFN status to each other. Exceptions allow for preferential treatment of developing countries, regional free trade areas and customs unions. Together with the principle of national treatment, MFN is one of the cornerstones of WTO trade law.\n\n\"Most favoured nation\" relationships extend \"reciprocal\" bilateral relationships following both GATT and WTO norms of reciprocity and non-discrimination. In bilateral reciprocal relationships a particular privilege granted by one party only extends to other parties who reciprocate that privilege, while in a multilateral reciprocal relationship the same privilege would be extended to the group that negotiated a particular privilege. The \"non-discriminatory\" component of the GATT/WTO applies a \"reciprocally\" negotiated privilege to all members of the GATT/WTO without respect to their status in negotiating the privilege.\n\nThe earliest form of the most favoured nation status can be found as early as in the 11th century. Today's concept of the most favoured nation status starts to appear in the 18th century, which is when the division of conditional and unconditional most favoured nation status also began. In the early days of international trade, \"most favoured nation\" status was usually used on a dual-party, state-to-state basis. A nation could enter into a \"most favoured nation\" treaty with another nation. In the treaty of Madrid in 1667 Spain granted England \"most favoured nation\" trading status. With the Jay Treaty in 1794, the US also granted the same to Britain.\n\nAfter World War II, tariff and trade agreements were negotiated simultaneously by all interested parties through the General Agreement on Tariffs and Trade (GATT), which ultimately resulted in the World Trade Organization in 1995. The World Trade Organization requires members to grant one another \"most favoured nation\" status. A \"most favoured nation\" clause is also included in the majority of the numerous bilateral investment treaties concluded between capital exporting and capital importing countries after World War II.\n\nTrade experts consider MFN clauses to have the following benefits:\n\nAs MFN clauses promote non-discrimination among countries, they also tend to promote the objective of free trade in general.\n\nGATT members recognized in principle that the \"most favoured nation\" rule should be relaxed to accommodate the needs of developing countries, and the UN Conference on Trade and Development (established in 1964) has sought to extend preferential treatment to the exports of the developing countries.\n\nAnother challenge to the \"most favoured nation\" principle has been posed by regional trade blocs such as the European Union and the North American Free Trade Agreement (NAFTA), which have lowered or eliminated tariffs among the members while maintaining tariff walls between member nations and the rest of the world. Trade agreements usually allow for exceptions to allow for regional economic integration.\n\nIn the 1990s, continued \"most favoured nation\" status for the People's Republic of China by the United States created controversy because of its sales of sensitive military technology and China's serious and continuous persecution of human rights. China's MFN status was made permanent on December 27, 2001. All of the former Soviet states, including Russia, were granted MFN status in 1996. On a bilateral level, however, the United States could not grant MFN status to some members of the former Soviet Union, including the Russian Federation, because of the Jackson-Vanik amendment. This presented an obstacle to those countries' accession to the WTO. At the urging of Vice President Joe Biden, the Jackson-Vanik amendment was repealed with Magnitsky Act (which attempts to punish human rights violations without hampering trade) on December 14, 2012.\n\nIn 1998, in the United States, \"most favoured nation status\" has been renamed \"permanent normal trade relations\" (NTR) as all but a handful of countries had this status already. The country gives preferential treatment to some of its trading partners without this status. This is based on the U.S. Supreme Court interpretation of MFN principle as a mere prohibition to enact discriminatory legislation concerning duties on goods of like character imported from an MFN partner. The court ruled that MFN does not constrain the U.S. from giving out special privileges to other countries.\n\nThe ideas behind MFN policies can first be seen in US foreign policy during the opening of Japan in the mid to late 1850s, when they were included as a clause in the Commercial Treaty of 1858, which signalled the opening of the Japanese market.\n\nSince 1998, the term normal trade relations (NTR) has replaced most favoured nation in all U.S. statutes. This change was included in section 5003 of the Internal Revenue Service Restructuring and Reform Act of 1998 (P.L. 105-206). However, Title IV of the Trade Act of 1974 (P.L. 93-618) established conditions on U.S. MFN/NTR tariff treatment to certain non-market economies, one of which is certain freedom-of-emigration requirements (better known as the Jackson-Vanik amendment). The act authorizes the president to waive a country’s full compliance with Jackson-Vanik under specified conditions, and this must be renewed by June 3 of each year. Once the president does so, the waiver is automatic unless Congress passes (and avoids or overturns a presidential veto of) a disapproval resolution.\n\nMFN/NTR status for China, a non-market economy, which had been originally suspended in 1951, was restored in 1980 and was continued in effect through subsequent annual Presidential extensions. Following the massacre of pro-democracy demonstrators in Tiananmen Square in 1989, however, the annual renewal of China’s MFN status became a source of considerable debate in the Congress; and legislation was introduced to terminate China’s MFN/NTR status or to impose additional conditions relating to improvements in China’s actions on various trade and non-trade issues. Agricultural interests generally opposed attempts to block MFN/NTR renewal for China, contending that several billion dollars annually in current and future U.S. agricultural exports could be jeopardized if that country retaliated. In China’s case, Congress agreed to permanent normal trade relations (PNTR) status in P.L. 106-286, President Clinton signed into law on October 10, 2000. PNTR paved the way for China’s accession to the WTO in December 2001; it provides U.S. exporters of agricultural products the opportunity to benefit from China’s WTO agreements to reduce trade barriers and open its agricultural markets.\n\nMFN status to Pakistan, Bangladesh and Vietnam, but review on withdrawal MFN status of Pakistan.\n\nThere are increasing calls in Pakistan to grant the MFN status to China. During the negotiations for the $6.64 billion bailout package from the International Monetary Fund (IMF), Pakistan had given an undertaking that it would take positive steps to grant MFN status to India.\n\nA most favoured nation clause (also called a most favoured customer clause or most favoured licensee clause<nowiki>) is a contract provision in which a seller (or licensor) agrees to give the buyer (or licensee) the best terms it makes available to any other buyer (or licensee). In some contexts, the use of such clauses may become commonplace, such as when online ebook retailers contract with publishers for the supply of e-books.</nowiki> Use of such clauses, in some contexts, may provoke concerns about anticompetitive influences and antitrust violations, while in other contexts, the influence may be viewed as procompetitive.\n\nOne example where most favoured nation clauses may appear is in institutional investment advisory contracts, where if a certain number of conditions are met, one client may be entitled to the lowest fee offered to other clients with a substantially identical investment strategy and the same or lower level of assets under management.\n\nThe most favoured nation clause can also be included in an agreement between a state and a company or an investor. This involves the provision of special privileges and advantages although the state cannot use contractual mechanisms to avoid its MFN treatment obligations with other countries. Unlike the relationship among states where a nation accorded an MFN status cannot be treated less advantageously than another, the host nation does not breach MFN treatment if it provides different privileges to different investors. The United Nations Conference on Trade and Development clarified this when it stated that \"a host country cannot be obliged to enter into an individual investment contract\" and that \"freedom of contract prevails over the MFN standard.\" This general principle, however, is not absolute. \n\nThe current EU competition law position is that MFN clauses will infringe Article 101(i) if in the individual circumstances of the case result in an appreciable adverse effect on competition in the European Union. This is likely to happen when the parties to the agreement have substantial market power.\n\nIt is recognised by EU courts and regulators that such clauses are widely used in a number of industries including most topically with online travel agents. However the regulatory tide in the EU appears to be turning against the use of these clauses. In a number of recent EU cases in the UK and Germany, MFNs have been condemned when used by companies with significant market power.\n\nIn January 2014, the UK competition regulator, the Office of Fair Trading (“OFT”) accepted binding commitments from leading on-line booking platforms, Expedia and Booking.com to alter the way they operated their MFN clauses with a major hotel chain International Hotel Group. The decision is being appealed by the price comparison website Skyscanner, and supported by online travel agent, Skoosh.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7137702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7137702", "title": "NHL Network (U.S. TV network)", "text": "NHL Network (U.S. TV network)\n\nNHL Network is an American sports-oriented cable and satellite television network that is a joint venture between the National Hockey League (which owns a controlling 84.4% interest) and NBCUniversal (which owns the remaining 15.6%). Dedicated to ice hockey, the network features live game telecasts from the NHL and other professional and collegiate hockey leagues, as well as NHL-related content including analysis programs, specials and documentaries.\n\nThe channel's headquarters and studios are located in the Secaucus, New Jersey facilities also utilized by MLB Network.\n\nLaunched on October 1, 2007, the NHL Network was developed out of a joint venture between the NHL and cable provider Comcast, as part of a broadcast rights agreement that resulted in the NBC Sports Network (then known as Outdoor Life Network) acquiring partial cable television rights to regular season, and Stanley Cup playoff and finals games from the National Hockey League.\n\nThe NHL Network originally shared some programming with its former sister network in Canada, with the main differences in programming between the two networks being the carriage of domestically targeted commercials and live game telecasts; NHL Network in the U.S. primarily carries broadcasts from Canadian national rightsholders (such as CBC's \"Hockey Night in Canada\", Sportsnet, and formerly TSN), while the Canadian feed primarily carried games from U.S. broadcasters. The channel also picks up simulcasts of games from regional rightsholders; live games on NHL Network that involve U.S. teams are non-exclusive, and are blacked out in the markets of U.S. teams involved in favor of local broadcasters.\nThe league hired Ascent Media to manage and distribute the channel, through its publicly traded subsidiary, Ascent Media Network Services. When it launched, the NHL Network became the third sports-oriented cable network devoted to programming from and controlled by a major sports league, following the National Basketball Association-owned NBA TV (which launched in March 1999) and the National Football League-owned NFL Network (which launched in November 2003); Major League Baseball would launch its own sports channel, MLB Network, on January 1, 2009.\nOn June 1, 2015, \"The Globe and Mail\" columnist David Shoalts reported that NHL Network in Canada would cease operations on September 1, 2015; national media rights to the NHL in Canada had been acquired by Rogers Communications beginning in the 2014-15 season, and the Bell Media staff members who managed the network's Canadian arm on behalf of the NHL were laid off that July.\n\nIn August 2015, it was announced that the NHL had reached a six-year deal with Major League Baseball Advanced Media (MLBAM) to take over the management of the NHL's digital properties, as well as NHL Network. Operations and production of NHL Network's programming was shifted from Toronto to the Secaucus, New Jersey facilities of MLB Network. There has been minor talent sharing between the networks, and MLB Network also helped to cross-promote an NHL Stadium Series game at Coors Field by building a scale hockey rink in its Studio 42, which itself is designed to resemble a scaled baseball field. For much of the 2015-16 season, NHL Network studio programming originated from re-themed versions of MLB Network's existing sets (much of the NHL regular season falls during the MLB offseason). In April 2016, coinciding with the start of the playoffs, NHL Network introduced a dedicated, 1,200 square-foot arena-themed set.\n\nComcast, owners of the league's current cable partner NBCSN, is also the largest cable television provider in the United States. The company was contractually obligated to carry NHL Network on its systems by the summer of 2007 at the latest, so it would be available in time for the 2007–08 NHL season. Both Comcast and the NHL had an option to terminate their contract after the 2006–07 season, which would have voided Comcast's obligation to launch a U.S. version of NHL Network, but opted to proceed with the launch.\n\nSince its official launch in the United States, the NHL Network announced on October 8, 2007 that it would begin being carried that month on Cablevision, Charter, Cox Communications, DirecTV, Dish Network, Xfinity and Time Warner Cable through carriage agreements that were struck with each of the providers. DirecTV has aired NHL Network on channel 215 since October 31, 2007. Going forward, any provider that already carries NHL Center Ice was expected to begin carrying NHL Network on one of its programming tiers. Some providers offer NHL Network's high definition simulcast feed, which broadcasts all live games in HD.\n\nNHL.com announced on January 12, 2009 that AT&T U-verse would begin carrying the channel. This was followed on June 2, 2009 with the announcement that NHL Network and Comcast had reached an agreement to carry the channel on the provider's Digital Classic Tier, which increased subscribership of the channel from the then-estimated two million subscribers in its placement on the \"Sports Entertainment\" tier to over 10 million on its Digital Classic package. Internationally, the network began to be distributed in Taiwan in 2010 on satellite provider DishHD.\n\nThe channel is also available on over-the-top services like DirecTV Now and Sling TV.\n\nOn October 1, 2011, AT&T U-verse dropped NHL Network due to a carriage dispute over a planned increase in retransmission payments. On November 18, 2016, the NHL Network returned to AT&T U-verse following a five-year hiatus.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50541511", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50541511", "title": "Narcotic Farms Act of 1929", "text": "Narcotic Farms Act of 1929\n\nNarcotic Farms Act of 1929 is a United States federal statute authorizing the establishment of two narcotic farms for the preventive custody and remedial care of individuals acquiring a sedative dependence for habit-forming narcotic drugs. The United States public law designated the construction of the narcotic dependent treatment facilities in Lexington, Kentucky and Fort Worth, Texas during the 1930s.\n\nThe United States narcotic farms became known as the United States Public Health Service Hospitals with the first infirmary opening in 1935 at Lexington, Kentucky while the second infirmary opened in 1938 at Fort Worth, Texas.\n\nThe H.R. 13645 legislation was passed by the U.S. 70th Congressional session and enacted into law by 30th President of the United States Calvin Coolidge on January 19, 1929.\n\nThe 1929 United States public law was repealed by the enactment of the Public Health Service Act on July 1, 1944.\n\nBy 1975, the two narcotic farm establishments had been abrogated as a national anti-narcotic treatment program in the rural United States. The narcotic farm concept was abandon due to advancement in medication treatment along with United States legislative policies regarding narcotic sedative dependence.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1586317", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1586317", "title": "Partnership taxation in the United States", "text": "Partnership taxation in the United States\n\nThe rules governing partnership taxation, for purposes of the U.S. Federal income tax, are codified according to Subchapter K of Chapter 1 of the U.S. Internal Revenue Code (Title 26 of the United States Code). Partnerships are \"flow-through\" entities. Flow-through taxation means that the entity does not pay taxes on its income. Instead, the owners of the entity pay tax on their \"distributive share\" of the entity's taxable income, even if no funds are distributed by the partnership to the owners. Federal tax law permits the owners of the entity to agree how the income of the entity will be allocated among them, but requires that this allocation reflect the economic reality of their business arrangement, as tested under complicated rules.\n\nWhile Subchapter K is a relatively small area of the Internal Revenue Code, it is as comprehensive as any other area of business taxation. The recent emphasis by the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) to stop abusive tax shelters has brought about an onslaught of regulation . Most abusive shelters utilize partnerships in some form.\n\nAggregate and Entity Concept\nThe Federal income taxation of partners and partnerships is set forth under Subchapter K covering Sections 701–777 of the Code. Subchapter K represents a blending of the Aggregate and Entity concepts.\n\nAggregate Concept\nAn aggregate concept looks at a partnership as a collection of partners and treats each partner as if he owned an undivided interest in the partnership assets and its operations. For tax purposes, under this concept, a partnership is not a person, it cannot be sued or sue. It is merely a conduit passing income through to the partners for reporting on their individual tax returns. \"The aggregate approach reflects the underlying notion that the partnership form generally should affect the tax treatment of the partners as little as possible. Thus it is useful to compare the treatment of a similar non-partnership transaction under general income tax principles.\"\n\nEntity Concept\nAn entity concept on the other hand looks at a partnership as a separate entity for tax purposes with partners owning equity interest in the partnership as a whole. This treatment is similar to corporations entity approach. Thus a partnership for tax purposes is a person, it can sue and be sued and can conclude legal contracts in its own name. The entity concept governs the characterization \"income, gain, losses and deductions from the partnership operations, are initially determined at entity level. These items are then passed through to the partners through their distributive shares.\"\n\nIn the absence of an election to the contrary, multi-member limited liability companies (LLCs), limited liability partnerships (LLPs) and certain multi-member trusts are treated as partnerships for United States federal income tax purposes. Certain non-U.S. entities may also be eligible for treatment as partnerships. Individual states of the United States do not universally accord \"flow-through\" taxation to partnerships, and some distinguish among different kinds of entities that are treated the same under federal tax principles (e.g. Texas taxes LLCs as corporations, while according flow-through treatment to partnerships). Local jurisdictions may also impose their own taxes on entities taxed as partnerships at the federal level (e.g., New York City unincorporated business tax).\n\nCertain threshold issues bear mentioning here: (1) members of an LLC, or partners in a partnership which has elected to be treated as a partnership for Federal income tax purposes, may use a proportionate share of the partnership debt in order to increase their \"basis\" for the purpose of receiving distributions of both profits and losses; (2) members and/or partners must be \"at risk\" pursuant to; and (3) they must actively participate pursuant to.\n\nThere is little published authority on these matters. On the issue of material participation in LLCs there are only the Gregg (U.S.D.C. Oregon 2000) and Assaf cases. These cases generally seem to agree that the least onerous test for qualifying for material participation for an LLC member is the same as that for a General Partner in a Limited Partnership, or 100 hours annually.\n\nA partner's distributive share of the partnership's income or loss, and its deductions and credits, is determined by the partnership agreement. However, the partner's distributive share is measured by their partnership interest if the partnership agreement does not provide for such a distributive share, or the allocation under the partnership agreement does not have substantial economic effect. The partnership interest can be discerned through an analysis of the capital accounts of the partners to determine in what proportion to the rest of the partnership each partner contributed capital to the partnership.\n\nThe determination of \"substantial economic effect\" for allocations is split into two main tests. The first is called the economic effects test. The second is the substantiality test. Both tests are complicated and require a detailed examination in the Treasury regulations 1.704-1(b).\n\nThe fundamental principle for the economic effects test is that for an allocation to have economic effect it must be consistent with the underlying economic arrangement of the partners. The partner must bear the economic benefit, or burden, of the allocation. There are now three methods, or \"tests,\" for determining whether an allocation has economic effect.\n\nThe first test is the primary test referred to as the safe harbor test, which requires the execution of three conditions:\n\n(1) Maintenance of partners' capital accounts in accordance with Reg. 1.704-1(b)(2)(iv);\n\n(2) Liquidation distributions are required in all cases to be made in accordance with the positive capital account balances of the partners.\n\n(3) Lastly, if a partner has a deficit balance in his capital account following the liquidation of his interest in the partnership, then he is unconditionally obligated to restore the amount of such deficit balance to the partnership by the end of such taxable year.\n\nThe test above works for general partners in a partnership, but not for limited partners. Limited partners, by the nature of having limited liability, do not have to pay back deficits. Instead, there is another test called the \"alternative economic effects test\" that follows the first two requirements, but replaces the last requirement. The alternative effects test requires that, instead of a deficit restoration obligation, the partnership agreement provides for a qualified income offset provision. A \"qualified income offset\" is a provision requiring that partners who unexpectedly receive an adjustment, allocation, or distribution that brings their capital account balance negative, will be allocated all income and gain in an amount sufficient to eliminate the deficit balance as quickly as possible.\n\nHowever, if the allocation fails the safe harbor and alternative economic effects tests, the allocation may still have economic effect through the economic effect equivalence test. Partnerships failing the two economic effect tests above will still be deemed to have economic effect, provided that as of the end of each partnership taxable year a liquidation of the partnership at the end of the year or at the end of any future year would produce the same economic result to the partners as would occur had the test above been satisfied. Since a hypothetical liquidation would create the same results, the economic effect is preserved. This is most useful during transitional stages of the partnership.\n\nSubstantiality is the second part of the substantial economic effects test. Generally, an allocation is substantial if there is a reasonable possibility that the allocation will affect substantially the dollar amounts to be received by the partners from the partnership independent of the tax consequences.\n\nAn allocation is not substantial if at the time the allocation becomes part of the partnership agreement, (1) the after-tax economic consequences of at least one partner may be enhanced compared to such consequences if the allocation was not contained in the partnership agreement, and (2) there is a strong likelihood that the after-tax consequences of no partner will be substantially diminished compared to such consequences if the allocation was not contained in the partnership agreement.\n\nThe idea here is that the IRS is looking for partnerships whose sole goal is to improve the tax situation of the partners. This is effectively the definition of a tax shelter.\n\nThe partnership must maintain the capital accounts of the partners in order to pass the economic effects test because many of the determinations for proper allocations rely on well-maintained capital accounts for discerning the partners' interests.\n\nDistinction between Book and Tax Capital Accounts.\nGenerally, partners' book capital accounts reflect the value of each partner's interest in the partnership. Thus, capital accounts serve to reconcile the entitlements and obligations of the partners upon liquidation. For example, if all partnership assets were sold for a fair market value and all liabilities were paid, the remaining cash, if any, would be equal to the partner's equity in the partnership at fair market value. Tax capital accounts are partners' \"Outside Basis\" (however, unlike outside basis, the partnership's recourse and nonrecourse liabilities are not included in partners' tax-basis capital accounts) and under Section 722 are initially determined by reference to the partner's contributed cash amount and the adjusted basis of the contributed property. Thereafter, other allocations that either increase or decrease a partner's basis will be reflected in the account. A partner's 'outside basis' is separate and distinct from the partnership's 'inside basis'. Under Section 723, a partnership's 'inside basis' is the adjusted basis of the contributed property or the value of the contributed cash. \"Generally the sum of the partner's outside basis will equal to the partnership's inside basis in its assets\".\n\nA simple example of capital accounts: A, B, C are equal partners in ABC partnership. A contributes $50,000 cash, B contributes equipment with a basis of $15,000 and a FMV of $30,000 and C contributes land with a basis of $25,000 and a FMV of $35,000. Immediately after the contributions, ABC partnership's Balance Sheet would show the following assuming that ABC has no liabilities at formation:\n\nABC Balance Sheet Assets Side:\n1. Total of all the Assets basis is $90,000 and this represents the contributed properties in the partnership's hands. This is ABC partnership's \"Inside Basis\".\n2. Total of all Assets Value is $115,000 and this represents the book value of the partnership assets.\n\nABC Balance Sheet Equity Side:\n1. Total of all the Basis is $90,000 and this represents the partners' tax capital accounts or partners' \"Outside basis\" of the properties contributed.\n2. Total of all book capital accounts is $115,000 and this represents the partners book capital accounts. Book capital accounts reflect partners equal contributions and equal rights to any liquidation distributions.\n\nThe basic rules provide for increases to be made in a partner's capital account for his monetary contributions, the fair market value of property the partner contributed, and undistributed allocations of partnership income.\n\nThe basic rules provide for decreases to be made in a partner's capital account for money distributed to him, allocations of expenditures, and the allocations of personal property loss and deductions.\n\nRecourse liabilities assumed by the partner are treated as money contributed to the partnership, which increases the partner's capital account in the same manner as money. Meanwhile, recourse liabilities that other partners assume from the contributing partner shall decrease his or her capital account in the same manner as money.\n\nA partnership liability is a nonrecourse liability if no partner or related person has an economic risk of loss for that liability. A partner's share of nonrecourse liabilities is generally proportionate to his or her share of partnership profits. However, this rule may not apply if the partnership has taken deductions attributable to nonrecourse liabilities or the partnership holds property that was contributed by a partner.\n\nFor more information on the effect of partnership liabilities, including rules for limited partners and examples, see sections 1.752-1 through 1.752-5 of the regulations.\n\nThere is a limitation on the deduction of a partner's distributive share of partnership losses. A partner may deduct his or her loss only to the extent of his or her adjusted basis in the partnership. Any excess of such loss over basis is allowed as a deduction at the end of the partnership year in which such excess is repaid to the partnership.\n\nWhen a partner contributes capital to the partnership, neither the partnership, nor the contributing partner, or any other partner, recognizes gain or loss by the mere fact of contributing property for an interest in the partnership (Sec. 721). Instead, the value of contributions is reflected in the capital accounts, which defers taxation until distributions are made to the contributing partner.\n\nTreas. Reg. §1.721-1 provides that this non recognition rule applies for contributions to new and to already existing partnerships. Also, unlike the requirements of Sec. 351 in the corporate world, there is no demand for control (80%) immediately after the transaction and there is no minimum percentage of interest that the contributing partner must acquire for the non-recognition rule of Sec. 721 to apply.\n\nTo qualify for non-recognition treatment it is, however, essential, that a partner makes the contribution acting in his capacity as partner, not as individual (this would fall under Sec. 707 ), and that he receives in exchange solely an interest in the partnership.\n\nGenerally, the contributing partner's basis in the partnership interest corresponds to the adjusted basis of the property in his hands at the time of contribution plus the amount of money contributed (Sec. 722). The holding period of the partnership interest includes the contributing partner's holding period of the transferred asset if it was a capital asset in his hands (Sec. 1223(1)). If it was an ordinary asset in his hands, the holding period of the partnership interest begins the day after the contribution.\n\nThe term \"property\" includes cash, tangible and intangible property, but \"services\" are specifically excluded. Generally, a partnership interest can be acquired in exchange for services, but this transaction does not qualify under Sec. 721. With the transfer of services rather than property, the transaction results in taxable income to the contributing partner under Sec. 61 and Sec. 83. The partnership can afterwards deduct the payment as operating costs.\n\nPromissory notes, such as third party notes and installment notes, qualify as property under Sec. 721. The adjusted basis of a third party note is zero in the hands of the contributing partner and therefore, his new basis in the partnership interest upon contribution will be zero. The basis of the contributing partner is increased accordingly with each payment that is made on the note. Under Reg. 1.721-1(a) also the contribution of installment obligations to the partnership in exchange for a partnership interest qualify for non-recognition treatment.\n\nGranting the mere right to use property is considered \"property\" for purposes of Sec. 721 only in very limited cases, such as the right of usage over a sufficiently long time period.\n\nOn the other hand, a partner can contribute ordinary income assets, like unrealized receivables or inventory items. The most common example of unrealized receivables contributed to a partnership are accounts receivable. This is often the case for cash basis taxpayers.\nSimilar to promissory notes, the initial basis of the accounts receivable is zero and, therefore, the basis in the partnership for the contributing partner is zero upon the contribution. Income resulting from contributed accounts receivable will then be allocated to the contributing partner.\n\nUnder Sec. 724, however, the character of gain or loss on specific kinds of contributed property is preserved. Therefore, should the partnership later dispose of the accounts receivable, the amount realized will be treated as ordinary income or loss, regardless of how long the partnership holds the receivables (Sec. 724(a)).\n\nThe same is true for the contribution of inventory. It qualifies as property under Sec. 721, but, if the property was inventory to the contributing partner, it will retain its character for five years after the contribution (Sec. 735(a)(2)). This means, any gain or loss realized by the partnership upon disposition within the time-frame of five years is treated as ordinary gain or loss (Sec. 724(b)).\n\nSince inventory and accounts receivable are ordinary income assets in the hands of the taxpayer, they trigger the recognition of ordinary gain upon disposition. Sec. 724 was enacted to prevent the conversion of ordinary income property to capital gain property.\n\nIf a partner contributes services for capital interest in the partnership, then that interest is taxable, should it be subject to ready valuation. If a partner contributes services for a profits interest, then that interest is not taxable upon the date of the exchange because any valuation would be too speculative unless it is for an asset that has low risk and a guaranteed return like a Treasury bill or the partner sells that interest within two years of the exchange.\n\nRecently the Treasury proposed a safe harbor valuation procedure whereby a \"service provider\" (a partner who contributes services for a partnership interest) may be taxed on the valuation of the fair market value of the liquidation value of the property received. According to this proposal a service provider will likely pay a tax on the receipt of a capital interest because it is subject to a liquidation valuation. Meanwhile, a profits interest has no liquidation value because only capital interests have interests in the liquidation of capital, instead, the profits interest is just the speculative value of a share in future profits.\n\nWhen a partner receives a distribution, they may not recognize gain up to the adjusted basis of their capital account in the partnership. They recognize gain to the extent that the distribution exceeds their adjusted basis in the capital accounts of their partnership interest. However, the partner may treat the distribution as a \"draw\", which does not become a distribution until the last day of the partnership's taxable year. This gives the partner time to bump-up his adjusted basis in the partnership and avoid the 731(a)(1) gain.\n\nA change in a partner's share of partnership liabilities increases or decreases the partner's outside basis in the partner's partnership interest. An increase in a partner's share of partnership liabilities increases the partner's outside basis because the assumption by the partner of a share of partnership debt is considered a deemed contribution to the partnership. Similarly, a decrease in a partner's share of partnership liabilities decreases the partner's outside basis because the partner being relieved of liability for a share of partnership debt is considered a deemed distribution to the partner.\n\nA partnership debt is considered a \"recourse\" liability to the extent any partner bears the economic risk of loss if the debt comes due and the partnership is unable to satisfy the obligation. A partner's share of a recourse liability, then, is the share for which that partner bears the economic risk of loss.\n\nA partner bears the economic risk of loss to the extent the partner or a related person would be required to contribute to the partnership to satisfy the obligation, determined by way of a \"constructive liquidation\" analysis. In a constructive liquidation, the following events are deemed to occur:\n(a) all partnership liabilities become due;\n(b) all partnership assets become worthless;\n(c) the partnership assets are sold for no consideration other than relief of the partnership's liabilities;\n(d) all partnership items are allocated among the partners; and\n(e) the partners' partnership interests are liquidated, with the partners being required to restore capital account deficits to $0.00.\n\nExample:\nA and B each contribute $10,000 in cash to form the AB Partnership. AB buys real property for $120,000, paying $20,000 and giving a recourse note for $100,000. The partnership agreement allocates all items equally to the partners.\n\nTo determine each partner's economic risk of loss, a constructive liquidation analysis must be performed. The $100,000 note is deemed to become due. The partnership's assets become worthless and are sold for no consideration. This results in a $120,000 loss to the partnership, which is split equally between A and B. As a result of each A and B taking a $60,000 distributive share of the loss, their respective capital accounts are decreased by $60,000 from $10,000 to ($50,000). To restore these negative capital account balances to $0.00 in a deemed liquidation of their partnership interests, A and B would have to contribute $50,000 each to the partnership. Hence, each A and B bears the economic risk of loss for $50,000 of the partnership's recourse debt. A and B's outside bases, therefore, are increased by $50,000 from $10,000 when AB becomes obligated on the $100,000 note, giving each partner an outside basis of $60,000.\n\nA partnership liability is a nonrecourse liability if no partner or related person has an economic risk of loss for that liability. A partner's share of nonrecourse liabilities is generally proportionate to his or her share of partnership profits. However, this rule may not apply if the partnership has taken deductions attributable to nonrecourse liabilities or the partnership holds property that was contributed by a partner.\nFor more information on the effect of partnership liabilities, including rules for limited partners and examples, see sections 1.752-1 through 1.752-5 of the regulations.\n\nThe Internal Revenue Service publishes a substantial number of official pronouncements called \"revenue procedures\" (Rev. Procs.) and \"revenue rulings\" (Rev. Rul.), and both temporary and permanent regulations annually. IRS website on Partnerships\n\n\nThere have been uncountable volumes published on partnership taxation, and the subject is usually offered in advanced taxation courses in graduate school.\n\nA well recognized authority on this subject was the late Arthur Willis, whose work is still being carried on by his legal associates at Northwestern University, including \"Willis on Taxation (1971)\", updated annually.\n\nA popular implementation guide is the book \"Understanding Partnership Accounting\" by Advent Software and American Express (2002). The book \"Logic of Subchapter K: A Conceptual Guide to Taxation of Partnerships\" by Laura E.Cunningham and Noel D.Cunningham (2006) is popular in taxation courses.\n\nThe Nutshell series book \"Federal Income Taxation of Partners and Partnerships\" by Karen C. Burke (2005) is a quick reference guide for taxation students.\n\nThe book \"Taxation of US Investment Partnerships and Hedge Funds: Accounting Policies, Tax Allocations and Performance Presentation\" by Vasavada (2010) codifies partnership accounting into linear algebra and uses the engineering algorithm of convex optimization to solve for partner tax allocations.\n"}
{"id": "19482675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19482675", "title": "PatentFreedom", "text": "PatentFreedom\n\nPatentFreedom is an on-line community of companies that access and share information about non-practicing entities that own and enforce patents primarily to collect license fees. The company offers membership to operating companies as well as law firms representing them. The company was founded in May 2008.\n\nPatent Freedom was acquired by RPX Corporation in June 2014.\n\nPatentFreedom is a membership organization where members pay annual subscription fee to gain access to extensive information on non-practicing entities. Existing members can also contribute to the information about who are asserting patents. PatentFreedom subscriptions are offered to both companies and law firms. The information includes who the entities are, who is funding them, and who they have asserted their patents against.\n\nThe company has electronic dossiers on 680 entities, 2100 subsidiaries, holding more than 50,000 United States patents and applications, and involved in 8,900 litigations against 25,000 company counterparties.\n\nPatentFreedom also provides advisory, risk mitigation and custom research services.\n\nThe company was founded in 2008, with 12 companies joining at inception.\n\nDan McCurdy is the Co-founder and Chairman of PatentFreedom. He also serves as the CEO of Allied Security Trust. Chris Reohr is the Co-founder and President of PatentFreedom.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48560387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48560387", "title": "Physician gag law", "text": "Physician gag law\n\nIn the United States, a physician gag law is a law that prohibits physicians from asking their patients about whether the patient owns a gun. In some cases, these laws may also restrict the ability of physicians to counsel their patients about gun safety. The term was first used to describe the \"Firearm Owners' Privacy Act,\" a law that was supported by the National Rifle Association and passed in Florida in 2011, which prohibited doctors from “making written inquiry or asking questions concerning the ownership of a firearm or ammunition by the patient or by a family member of the patient.” The law passed in Florida was later challenged by the American Academy of Pediatrics, and was blocked in 2012 when judge Marcia G. Cooke, of the United States District Court for the Southern District of Florida, issued an injunction against its implementation. In 2014, Cooke's decision was reversed by a three judge panel of the 11th Circuit Court of Appeals, which ruled to uphold the law. The plaintiffs petitioned the court to be heard by the full panel of judges. In 2017, the court found the law to violate physicians' 1st Amendment Rights. Since 2011, twelve other states besides Florida have introduced similar laws, and although Florida's is the most restrictive in the country, similar (albeit watered-down) laws have been enacted in Minnesota, Missouri and Montana.\n\nA 2012 \"sounding board\" article in \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" criticized Florida's gag law for the same reason Cooke issued an injunction against it, which is that, as Cooke said, “The State, through this law, inserts itself in the doctor–patient relationship, prohibiting and burdening speech necessary to the proper practice of preventive medicine, thereby preventing patients from receiving truthful, non-misleading information.\" Medical organizations that are opposed to these laws include the American Medical Association, as well as the American Academy of Family Physicians, American Academy of Pediatrics, American College of Emergency Physicians, American Congress of Obstetricians and Gynecologists, American College of Physicians, American College of Surgeons, American Psychiatric Association, and the American Public Health Association. These eight organizations (not including the AMA) released a joint statement in 2015 which stated that \"our organizations oppose state and federal mandates that interfere with physician free speech and the patient–physician relationship, including laws that forbid physicians to discuss a patient's gun ownership.\"\n"}
{"id": "1508180", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508180", "title": "Positive obligations", "text": "Positive obligations\n\nPositive obligations in human rights law denote a State's obligation to engage in an activity to secure the effective enjoyment of a fundamental right, as opposed to the classical negative obligation to merely abstain from human rights violations.\n\nClassical human rights, such as the right to life or freedom of expression, are formulated or understood as prohibitions for the State to act in a way that would violate these rights. Thus, they would imply an obligation for the State not to kill, or an obligation for the State not to impose press censorship. Modern or social rights, on the other hand, imply an obligation for the State to become active, such as to secure individuals' rights to education or employment by building schools and maintaining a healthy economy. Such social rights are generally more difficult to enforce.\n\nPositive obligations transpose the concept of State obligations to become active into the field of classical human rights. Thus, in order to secure an individual's right to family life, the State may not only be obliged to refrain from interference therein, but positively to facilitate for example family reunions or parents' access to their children.\n\nThe most prominent field of application of positive obligations is Article 8 of the European Convention on Human Rights.\n\nImportant cases have been taken to the ECHR in Strasbourg which over the last ten years has moved to making positive obligations especially in the field of transsexuals right to decide if they want surgery to convert their bodies as far as possible from one sex to the other.\nCases such as Van Kuck v Germany 2003 made it positive obligation on EU states to provide sex change surgery and this was repeated in the L v Lithuania 2007 verdict and again in the Schlump v Switzerland 2009 verdict. Because of this the Swiss Government and many other removed the need for a person to prove they needed sex change surgery in 2010.\nHowever, there are still countries, especially the UK, which refuse to accept the legality of the positive obligations on them regardless of the fact that this makes them liable to being found guilty of Article 8 violations.\nSee ECHR Van Kuck v Germany 2003.\nSee ECHR L V Lithuania 2007.\nSee ECHR Schlumpf v Switzerland 2009.\n\n"}
{"id": "9653797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9653797", "title": "Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees", "text": "Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees\n\nThe Protocol Relating to the Status of Refugees is a key treaty in international refugee law. It entered into force on 4 October 1967, and 146 countries are parties.\n\nWhere the 1951 United Nations Convention Relating to the Status of Refugees had restricted refugee status to those whose circumstances had come about \"as a result of events occurring before 1 January 1951\", as well as giving states party to the Convention the option of interpreting this as \"events occurring in Europe\" or \"events occurring in Europe or elsewhere\", the 1967 Protocol removed both the temporal and geographic restrictions. This was needed in the historical context of refugee flows resulting from decolonisation. However, the Protocol gave those states which had previously ratified the 1951 Convention and chosen to use the geographically restricted definition the option to retain that restriction.\n\n"}
{"id": "47811562", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47811562", "title": "Public Access Legal Support", "text": "Public Access Legal Support\n\nPublic Access Legal Support (PALS) is a highly specific category of legal service providers in England & Wales that are distinct from solicitors, barristers and paralegals, and that operate only within the framework of the Public Access Scheme (otherwise known as 'Direct Access').\n\nThe Public Access Scheme (or 'Direct Access') enables consumers of legal services to instruct a barrister directly. The main advantage of the Scheme for consumers is the opportunity to save legal costs by avoiding the incurrence of solicitor’s professional fees. However, removing solicitors from running a legal case often requires that clients themselves perform a considerable amount of document management, filing, and other related activities in the context of conducting litigation. Moreover, the current Public Access rules provide that barristers are not allowed to take on public access clients unless doing so is in both the client’s best interests and in the interests of justice. Therefore, in complicated cases barristers must recommend to clients that they obtain external support from a solicitor or a PALS provider.\n\nSince the expense of employing a solicitor in the context of the Public Access Scheme (or 'Direct Access') defeats the 'cost-saving' purpose of the Scheme, consumers can turn to a PALS provider, which offers a range of support facilities at a significantly lower cost in comparison to the professional services of a solicitor, thereby preserving the purpose of the Public Access Scheme.\n\nThe acronym PALS was first coined by Dr Yuri Rapoport B.Sc SJD, head of the Kohen Rapoport Group, which launched UK's first PALS platform, known as PX Direct Access as part of PX Chambers Services.\n\nProviders of PALS achieve their lower cost position (in comparison to solicitors professional fees) owing to the fact that they do not offer any legal advice and do not have the overhead cost of regulatory compliance nor high-level professional indemnity insurance.\n"}
{"id": "5155377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5155377", "title": "Qubo", "text": "Qubo\n\nQubo ( ; stylized as qubo) is an American multi-platform children's entertainment programming service. Qubo consists of a 24-hour television network, alternately known as Qubo Channel (which is available as a digital multicast service on owned-and-operated stations and some affiliates of corporate sister Ion Television, and on some pay television providers), a video on demand service, and the branding of a weekly programming block on Ion Television under the name \"Qubo Kids Corner\".\n\nIn May 2006, Ion Media Networks, NBC Universal (which owned a 32% interest in Ion Media at the time), Corus Entertainment, Scholastic Corporation and Classic Media (which is now owned by the aforementioned NBCUniversal through DreamWorks Animation) announced plans to launch a new, multi-platform children's entertainment brand known as Qubo, oriented towards providing \"educational, values-oriented programming\" targeted towards children between 4 and 18 years of age. The brand would encompass programming blocks on NBC Universal and Ion's respective flagship broadcast television networks (NBC, Telemundo and Ion Television), a video on demand service, a website, and a standalone 24-hour network to be carried as a digital subchannel on television stations owned by Ion Media Networks and by cable and satellite providers.\n\nQubo president Rick Rodriquez (who formerly served as a programming executive at Discovery Communications) explained in a 2008 interview with \"Multichannel News\" that Qubo was designed as a bilingual brand, offering programming in both English and Spanish. While Qubo would initially carry Spanish-language dubs of its programming for its Telemundo block, Rodriquez did not rule out the possibility of developing original children's programming tailored to Hispanic audiences through Qubo in the future. He felt that the market for Spanish-language children's programming had been underserved by existing outlets (such as Telemundo and Univision), and envisioned the possibility of programming which could \"bridge the gap\" and educate Spanish-speaking children on the English language, and vice versa.\n\nThe Qubo brand was intended to represent a \"building block for kids,\" as reflected by its logo. The name \"Qubo\" was chosen because it had a \"fun\" sound, and was usable in both English and Spanish.\n\nQubo launched on September 9, 2006, with the premiere of weekend morning blocks on NBC (which aired exclusively on Saturday mornings, replacing \"Discovery Kids on NBC\", a weekly block programmed by the Discovery Kids cable network) and Telemundo (which aired on both Saturday and Sunday mornings). That was followed on September 15 by the introduction of a daytime block on i: Independent Television (now Ion Television), which initially aired on Friday afternoons. At launch, its programming included the first-run animated series \"Dragon\" (produced by Scholastic) and \"Jane and the Dragon\" (produced by Corus subsidiary Nelvana), along with \"VeggieTales\" and its spinoffs \"3-2-1 Penguins!\" and \"\" (produced by Classic Media subsidiary Big Idea) – marking the first time that \"VeggieTales\" had ever been broadcast as a television program.\n\n\"VeggieTales\" and its spin-offs incorporated lessons related to Christian teachings; initially, this religious content was edited out of the original \"VeggieTales\" broadcasts on Qubo at the request of NBC's standards and practices department. The move, however, drew criticism from the conservative watchdog group Parents Television Council, which filed a complaint against NBC. A representative for NBC replied in a statement that the editing conformed to guidelines within the network's broadcast standards \"not to advocate any one religious point of view\". \"VeggieTales\" creator Phil Vischer also expressed discontent with the edits, stating that he was not informed that religious content would be removed from the series, and that he would have refused to sign a contract with Qubo if he had known of the decision beforehand. Vischer said, \"I would have declined partly because I knew a lot of fans would feel like it was a sellout or it was done for money.\" Still, Vischer added that he understood NBC's wish to remain religiously neutral, and said, \"\"VeggieTales\" is religious, NBC is not. I want to focus people more on 'Isn't it cool that Bob and Larry are on television?'\"\n\nIn December 2006, a Spanish-language version of the Qubo website was launched. A companion digital subchannel network, Qubo Channel, launched on Ion Media Networks' stations on January 8, 2007, initially featuring a schedule of children's programming in rolling four-hour blocks; Ion intended to seek carriage of the channel on cable, satellite and telco providers. In May of that year, NBC Universal sold its minority stake in Ion Media Networks to Citadel LLC. On December 3, 2007, Qubo Channel expanded its programming offerings to include shows from other producers, as well as some programs that were already airing on Ion Television's Qubo block. In addition, the rolling schedule was expanded to a six-hour block, which repeated four times per day.\n\nIn January 2008, Ion Media Networks and Comcast reached an agreement to continue carrying Ion's digital channels, including Qubo and Ion Life. In August 2008, Qubo introduced guidelines for advertisers in an effort to help combat childhood obesity, committing to only accept advertisements for products which meet nutritional guidelines determined by the network in collaboration with childhood obesity expert Goutham Rao. Qubo also began to air a series of public service announcements featuring characters from its programs in collaboration with the Ad Council, the United States Olympic Committee and the Department of Health and Human Services, advocating exercise and healthy living.\n\nIn May 2009, Ion Media Networks filed an inquiry with the Federal Communications Commission to seek must-carry cable and satellite carriage to expand Qubo's distribution to other providers. Later in May 2010, Ion signed carriage agreements with Advanced Cable Communications and Blue Ridge Communications, as well as deal with Comcast's Colorado Springs system to add Qubo on the providers' digital tiers.\n\nWith the acquisition of NBCUniversal by Comcast, it was announced on March 28, 2012, that NBC and Telemundo would discontinue their Qubo blocks and replace them with NBC Kids and MiTelemundo. Both blocks would be programmed by PBS Kids Sprout, a preschool-oriented television network that came under NBC ownership as part of the merger – on July 7; leaving Ion Television as the only remaining network with a Qubo-branded programming block (with Ion Media acquiring NBCUniversal's interest in the venture). At the time, PBS Kids Sprout was a competing joint venture between Comcast, HIT Entertainment, PBS and Sesame Workshop; NBCUniversal acquired full ownership of the cable network in November 2013, and PBS Kids Sprout suddenly became simply Sprout as a result.\n\nIon Media Networks acquired the stakes in Qubo held by Classic Media (which became DreamWorks Classics in 2012, after its acquisition by DreamWorks Animation), Scholastic and Corus Entertainment in 2013, with all three companies retaining program distribution partnerships with the network. The Qubo block on Ion Television was renamed as the \"Qubo Kids Corner\" on January 4, 2015, concurrent with the block's move from Friday to Sunday mornings.\n\nQubo Channel features archived content from the programming libraries of Corus Entertainment, DreamWorks Classics and Scholastic Corporation, with its programs targeted at children ages 2 to 15. Though there was an early promise of the three companies - NBC, Universal and Ion Media - to produce a new series for the network and program block each year, Qubo only produced one original series, \"Turbo Dogs\", which aired from 2007 to 2008. Qubo Channel regularly broadcasts series aimed at preschoolers during the morning and afternoon hours, while series aimed at older children are featured as part of the network's evening and midnight schedule.\n\nProgramming on Qubo Channel and its companion Ion Television block account for all educational programming content on Ion Television's owned-and-operated stations and certain Ion affiliates that carry the 24-hour channel, relieving the network from the responsibility of carrying programs compliant with guidelines dictated by the Children's Television Act on its other subchannel services (especially those that simulcast the Home Shopping Network and QVC, two networks that by virtue of their primary distribution via cable and satellite television, are exempt from the guidelines).\n\nOn September 28, 2010, Qubo Channel launched \"Qubo Night Owl\", (running from 12:00 to 6:00 a.m. Eastern Time) featuring classic animated series, many of which came from the Filmation library owned by DreamWorks Animation (currently owned by NBCUniversal). The block was restructured in August 2013 to feature a mix of animated and live-action series sourced solely from Qubo's distribution partners.\n\n, Qubo has current and pending affiliation agreements with 67 television stations encompassing 34 states and the District of Columbia. The network has an estimated national reach of 58.83% of all households in the United States (or 183,832,858 Americans with at least one television set). Like parent network Ion Television, the network's stations almost exclusively consist of network-owned stations (with the exception of Louisville, Kentucky affiliate WBNA). Qubo's programming is available by default via a national feed that is distributed directly to cable and satellite providers in markets without a local Ion Television station that carries the network.\n\nQubo does not have any over-the-air stations in several major markets, most notably Baltimore, Maryland; Toledo, Ohio; San Diego, California; Charlotte, North Carolina; Richmond, Virginia; Green Bay, Wisconsin; and Cincinnati, Ohio. A key factor in the network's limited national broadcast coverage is the fact that Ion Media Networks does not actively seek over-the-air distribution for the network on the digital subchannels of other network-affiliated stations (in contrast, its parent network Ion Television – which had similarly limited national coverage following the digital television transition – has begun subchannel-only affiliation arrangements through agreements with NBC Owned Television Stations' Telemundo Station Group subsidiary and Media General during 2014 and 2015), with very few stations that contractually carry the network's programming (with limited exceptions in markets such as Louisville, Kentucky and Anchorage, Alaska). As a result, Ion Media Networks owns the vast majority of the stations within Qubo's affiliate body.\n\n"}
{"id": "12049805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12049805", "title": "Relevance (law)", "text": "Relevance (law)\n\nRelevance, in the common law of evidence, is the tendency of a given item of evidence to prove or disprove one of the legal elements of the case, or to have probative value to make one of the elements of the case likelier or not. Probative is a term used in law to signify \"tending to prove.\" Probative evidence \"seeks the truth\". Generally in law, evidence that is not probative (doesn't tend to prove the proposition for which it is proffered) is inadmissible and the rules of evidence permit it to be excluded from a proceeding or stricken from the record \"if objected to by opposing counsel.\" A balancing test may come into the picture if the value of the evidence needs to be weighed versus its prejudicial nature.\n\nUntil the Federal Rules of Evidence were restyled in 2011, Rule 401 defined relevance as follows:\n\n\"Relevant evidence\" means evidence having any tendency to make the existence of any fact that is of consequence to the determination of the action more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence.\n\nThis definition incorporates the requirement that evidence be both material (\"of consequence to the determination of the action\") and have probative value (\"having any tendency to make the existence of any [material] fact...more probable or less probable than it would be without the evidence\"). The restyled Rule 401, however, separates these traditional concepts in order to make the rule clearer and more easily understood. The amended language essentially rewrites the rule as a test, rather than a definition, for relevance:\n\nAccording to the notes of the Advisory Committee appointed to draft the Federal Rules of Evidence,\n\nRelevancy is not an inherent characteristic of any item of evidence but exists only as a relation between an item of evidence and a matter properly provable in the case.\n\nThe United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit explains the concept of \"matter properly provable\" as follows:\n\nThe initial step in determining relevancy is therefore to identify the \"matter properly provable.\" As Professor James explained in a highly-regarded article, '[t]o discover the relevancy of an offered item of evidence one must first discover to what proposition it is supposed to be relevant.\"\n\nGenerally, relevant evidence is admissible. However, relevant evidence is not admissible if prohibited by the Constitution, an Act of Congress, by the Federal Rules of Evidence, or by rules prescribed by the Supreme Court. Under the Federal Rules of Evidence, relevant evidence may be excluded on the basis of enumerated grounds.\n\nRule 402. General Admissibility of Relevant Evidence\nRelevant evidence is admissible unless any of the following provides otherwise:\nIrrelevant evidence is not admissible. \n\nRelevance is ordinarily a necessary condition, but not a sufficient condition, for the admissibility of evidence. For example, relevant evidence may be excluded if its tendency to prove or disprove a fact is heavily outweighed by the possibility that the evidence will prejudice or confuse the jury.\n\nFRE 402 refers to relevant evidence as 'inadmissible' if 'otherwise provided by' several sources of law. Yet, FRE 403 refers to 'exclusion of \"relevant\"' evidence. It is clear that evidence excluded under FRE 403 is inadmissible. However, it is not clear that inadmissible evidence is considered 'excluded' within the meaning of the Federal Rules of Evidence.\n\nUnder Rule 403 of the Federal Rules of Evidence, relevant evidence may be excluded if its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger of one or more of the enumerated grounds for exclusion. The grounds for exclusion are:\nIn an exemplary hypothetical; if 100 witnesses saw the same accident, and would each give roughly the same description of the event, the testimony of each would be equally relevant, but it would be a waste of time or a needless presentation of cumulative evidence to have all 100 repeat the same facts at trial.\n\nTo preserve legal error for review, objections must be raised. Often objections against the introduction of evidence are made on the basis of relevance. However, the rules and opinions demonstrate that relevant evidence includes a significant portion of typically offered evidence. Since objections are required to be specific and timely, merely objecting on the basis of relevance, without more, may prevent the review of legal error on appeal. More particularly, making an objection based on “relevance” does not preserve an error based on Rule 403. Cases that lack specific and timely objections are sometimes referred to as having \"poor records\" because errors made by the lower court may not be reviewed on appeal.\n\nA variety of social policies operate to exclude relevant evidence. Thus, there are limitations on the use of evidence of liability insurance, subsequent remedial measures, settlement offers, and plea negotiations, mainly because it is thought that the use of such evidence discourages parties from carrying insurance, fixing hazardous conditions, offering to settle, and pleading guilty to crimes, respectively.\n\nThe Canadian judiciary system utilizes the term \"probative\" which also signifies \"prove to be worthy.\"\n\nIn 1970 The Supreme Court of Canada was concerned with exclusionary discretion within the judicial system. In R. v. Wray the term “probative value” is used to explain that “judges in criminal cases do not have a discretion to exclude evidence because of how it was obtained.”\n\nThe sole discretion to exclude evidence is based on the weighing of prejudicial value and probative value. Where the material evidence is being considered for exclusion:\n\nJudges may face the need to weigh the probative value versus the prejudicial impact in nearly any case. A part of this is symbolized by a weighing scale and represents justice.\n\nAustralian rule of evidence is a mixture of statute and common law. It has a uniform \"Evidence Act\" (UEA or the 'Act') that consists of Acts of the Commonwealth, New South Wales, Victoria, Tasmania, Australian Capital Territory, Northern Territory and Norfolk Island. The rules of evidence work to ensure that criminal trials are conducted in a manner that is fair to both parties in the proceedings with distinct focus on testing of evidence.\n\nAs per Barwick CJ in Wilson, \"The fundamental rule governing the admissibility of evidence is that it be relevant. In every instance the proffered evidence must ultimately be brought to that touchstone.\"\n\nThe scheme of Chapter 3 of the Act deals with admissibility of evidence. Evidence which is relevant is generally admissible, and evidence which is irrelevant is inadmissible. Evidence is relevant if it is evidence which, if accepted, could rationally affect (directly or indirectly) the assessment of the probability of a fact in issue in the proceedings. As evidence which is relevant has the capability to affect the assessment of the probability of the existence of a fact in issue, it is “probative”. This determination is known as logical relevance. Logical relevance merely requires evidence have a logical connection to the facts in issue.\nBut neither s 55 nor s 56 of the Act requires that evidence be probative to a particular degree for it to be admissible. Evidence that is of only some, even slight, probative value will be admissible, just as it is at common law. Therefore, evidence is either relevant or it is not and if the evidence is not relevant then no further question arises about its admissibility. However, logical relevance isn't sufficient to establish the potential admissibility of the evidence and is still possible for the evidence to be inadmissible. This determination is known as ‘legal relevance’ as opposed to logical relevance and sets a demanding test for discretionary exclusion (but one that is not obligatory) where its probative value is substantially outweighed by the danger that the evidence might be unfairly prejudicial. Once the legal relevance of the evidence is established, the exclusionary principles and exceptions to those principles are also to be considered.\n\nReliability considers the probative force of the evidence (the legal relevance), rather than the evidence’s ability to affect the probability of the existence of a fact in issue (the logical relevance).\n\n"}
{"id": "18724655", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18724655", "title": "Stalking horse offer", "text": "Stalking horse offer\n\nA stalking horse offer, agreement, or bid is an attempt by a bankrupt debtor to test the market for the debtor's assets in advance of an auction of them. The intent is to maximize the value of its assets or avoid low bids, as part of (or before) a court auction.\n\nWhile entering a stalking horse offer, the debtor can offer bidding protections such as breakup fees to its best bidder before the auction. These incentives enhance the value of the offering for the bidder which might lead to a better price offer before the auction begins. This higher offer is now the starting offer for the auction and may result in benefiting the debtor and its estate.\n\nOn October 22, 2007, technology company SCO asked a bankruptcy court to approve a deal whereby a purchaser would acquire \"substantially all assets used by the Company in connection with its SCO UNIX Business and certain related claims in litigation.\" The agreement included a \"stalking horse\" provision: If the purchaser, York Capital Management, were to be designated as a stalking horse in subsequent bidding for SCO's assets, and if others outbid York, then SCO would have to pay York a $780,000 breakup fee and reimbursement of all expenses incurred by York up to $300,000. In this way, York would earn its expenses and $780,000 by acting as the stalking horse and preventing other bidders from making lowball offers.\n\nOn August 4, 2008, Steve and Barry's LLC, a retailer of casual apparel, filed a stalking horse agreement with the U.S. Bankruptcy Court for the Southern District of New York. Their partner in this asset purchase agreement was BH S&B Holding LLC, a subsidiary of Bay Harbor Management.\n\nOn July 27, 2009, \"The Wall Street Journal\" reported that Telefon AB L.M. Ericsson had won a stalking horse bid to acquire Nortel Networks Corp's CDMA division, for $1.13 billion. \n\nOn July 8, 2010, the Texas Rangers Major League Baseball team announced a potential stalking horse deal. \"'An auction with a stalking horse, or minimum, bid is more frequently used than a so-called “naked” auction without a floor price,' William K. Snyder, the court-appointed restructuring officer, said. 'Moreover, the stalking horse bidder commonly receives a “reasonable” break-up fee if unsuccessful in the auction,' said Snyder. Under the scrapped plan, the $304 million in cash portion of the Greenberg-Ryan group’s May 24 deal with owner Tom Hicks would serve as a minimum bid, with the next bid at least $20 million higher. Greenberg-Ryan would have received $15 million if it lost.\" \n\nOn February 21, 2011, \"Reuters\" reported Blockbuster's intention to pursue a $290 million stalking horse offer with Cobalt Video Holdco. \n\nOn April 4, 2011, \"TechCrunch\" reported Google's intention to pursue a $900 million stalking horse bid for Nortel's patents.\n\nIn 2013, Hostess Brands used a stalking horse auction to sell off its assets in bankruptcy.\n\nOn October 17, 2013, Designline, now known as Environmental Performance Vehicles the Charlotte, NC bus manufacturer, used the technique but received no offers. \n\nOn April 15, 2013, Eastman Kodak proposed a stalking horse deal of $210 million whereby Brother Industries would acquire Kodak's Document Imaging division ahead of Kodak's bankruptcy court approval slated for June 2013.\n\nOn June 10, 2016, Ziff Davis proposed a stalking-horse bid of under US$90 million after Gawker Media announced it was filing for Chapter 11 bankruptcy protection.\n\n"}
{"id": "23777087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23777087", "title": "The Art of Cross-Examination", "text": "The Art of Cross-Examination\n\nThe Art of Cross-Examination is a classic text for trial attorneys and law students on how to cross-examine witnesses. Written by American attorney Francis L. Wellman, the book was first published in 1903 by The Macmillan Company, and was still in print more than 100 years later.\n\nFrancis L. Wellman was a practicing attorney in New York State as well as an assistant district attorney in New York City. He dedicated the book to his two sons, hoping to encourage them to enter the legal profession.\n\nWellmann compiled many examples of cross-examination techniques from colleagues and notable attorneys on celebrated cases. Notable references include such legal giants as Abraham Lincoln \"in his twenty-three years\" of trial practice prior to his political career (chapter IV), then-Judge Benjamin Cardozo (later a ground-breaking U.S. Supreme Court justice), U.S. Attorney General Benjamin Butler, the Vanderbilt family, and others. Well-known trial attorneys and their cross examination techniques are highlighted and interwoven with the stories of the day along with the prominent members of the legal profession, from New York City and also England.\n\nThe book gives colorful, interesting facts on the trial participants; provides insights into various claims, disputes, marriage scandals; etc. \"The New York Times\" contrasted it with other, boring legal texts, and recommended it to both trial lawyers and non-lawyers for its entertainment value. It is filled with suspense regarding the outcomes of the compelling trials within the book. Equally suspenseful are the legal outcomes from the attempts of the attorneys to sway the juries with their erudition, wit, and charm.\n\nSome of the key topics covered include the following:\n\nIn chapter VIII, Wellman reflects on the inconsistencies of statements during trials and also the basis for developing strong cross examination skills to uncover truths. He states:\n\n\nThe author thus indicates the challenging questions that should be put to a witness, questioning not merely their statement of facts, but motives, perceptions, misimpressions etc.\n\nSome of the trials with cross-examination highlights in the book include the following:\n\nThe cross-examination of Mrs. Reginald Vanderbilt by Herbert C. Smyth in the trial of Vanderbilt vs. Mrs. Harry Payne Whitney- to recover child custody.\n\nLeonard Kip Rhinelander vs. Alice Jones Fhinelander - for annulment action against his wife spurred by racial prejudice.\n\nMarie S. Livingston vs. Cecil Barret of Spencer Trask & Co. Cross examination by Lloyd Paul Stryker of the Barrets for nondisclosure that Ms. Livingston, a widow with five children, placed her stock in the hands of a broker she met at a social gathering. She was unwittingly allowing the firm to sell her stocks and then invest in a company owned by the firm. Though no damages were found, the plaintiff prevailed in having transactions reversed. There followed \"Wendt v. Fischer,\" 243 N. Y. 439, p. 443, where Judge Benjamin Cardozo is quoted as stating, \"If dual interests are to be served, the disclosure to be effective must lay bare the truth, without any ambiguity or reservation, in all its stark significance.\"\n\nThe cross-examination of Ada and Phoebe Brush by George W. Whiteside - in their suit against two prominent Huntington, Long Island physicians, to recover damages for their ten-year incarceration in Kings Park State Hospital as insane patients.\n\nThe cross-examination of Miss Martinez by the Hon. Joseph H. Choate for the defense, in the breach of promise case \"Martinez v. Del Valle.\"\n\nThe cross-examination of Richard Pigott by Sir Charles Russell before the Parnell Commission.\n\nThe cross-examination by Henry W. Taft of Dr. Charles Dana, Dr. Frederick Peterson and Dr. Smith Ely Jelliffe, expert witnesses in the litigation over the will of Andrew F. Kennedy.\n\nDue to its age, the book's copyright is expired. It is currently published for free and still recommended reading for trial lawyers. Commercial sites and Google Books publish it in its entirety. It is also being sold online over a century later.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "72255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=72255", "title": "Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley", "text": "Thomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley\n\nThomas Seymour, 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley, KG (c. 1508 – 20 March 1549) was the brother of the English queen Jane Seymour who was the third wife of King Henry VIII and mother of King Edward VI. He was also the fourth husband of Catherine Parr who was the sixth and last wife of Henry VIII. However, he is probably best known for his influence in the life of the future Queen Elizabeth I.\n\nThomas was the son of Sir John Seymour and Margaret Wentworth. He was the younger brother of Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset (1500-1552). He grew up at Wulfhall, the Seymour family home, in Wiltshire, a county in southwest England. The Seymours were a family of country gentry, who, like most holders of manorial rights, traced their ancestry to a Norman origin. To his contemporaries, he was forceful and reckless, and also, very attractive to women. Sir Nicholas Throckmorton, a boyhood friend of King Edward, described Thomas Seymour as \"hardy, wise and liberal ... fierce in courage, courtly in fashion, in personage stately, in voice magnificent, but somewhat empty of matter.\" And though ambitious, his brother, Edward Seymour, far surpassed and out-distanced him in their rivalry over control of their nephew, King Edward VI, and for power. Thomas was executed for treason.\n\nBecause Henry VIII and his second wife, Anne Boleyn, did not have a son (Henry hoped for a male heir), his interests turned elsewhere, to Thomas Seymour's sister Jane, one of Anne's ladies in waiting. Henry married Jane eleven days after Anne's execution in May 1536, and the Seymour brothers saw their fortunes rise, as they became part of the royal family. In October of the following year, Jane gave birth to a son, Edward Tudor, who would become King Edward VI. Her two brothers, Edward and Thomas, were therefore uncles to the baby Edward, heir to the throne. Less than two weeks later, Queen Jane died from complications related to childbirth. The elder brother, Edward, would later be Lord Protector, ruler of England, on behalf of the minor King.\n\nThomas's other royal connection was with Catherine Parr, Henry VIII's sixth wife, whom Thomas would later marry, after Henry's death. The Parrs were a substantial northern family, both of Catherine's parents being friends with King Henry and Queen Catherine of Aragon, (who was Catherine Parr's godmother and Henry's first wife). In 1529, when she was 17, Catherine married Sir Edward Burgh, who died in the spring of 1533, not surviving to inherit the title of Baron Burgh. In 1534 Catherine married John Neville, 3rd Baron Latimer, a man twice her age. With this marriage, Catherine had a secure home, step-children, and a husband with influence and a title. As a result of the uprising of the North, in January 1537, Catherine and her family spent much of their time in London where, in 1542, she became acquainted with Thomas Seymour. Catherine preferred the atmosphere of the court which was very different from the rural estates she had known. She nursed her husband until his death in 1543, which left her a rich widow. After Lord Latimer's death, she faced the possibility of having to return north. However, in that same year, Catherine established herself as part of Princess Mary's household, where she caught the attention of the King, (who had been married two more times since Queen Jane's death). Although she had already begun a romantic relationship with Thomas, she saw it as her duty to accept Henry's proposal over Thomas's. Thus, on 12 July 1543, Catherine Parr became Henry's sixth and final wife.\n\nMeanwhile, in 1538, Thomas was sent to the embassy at the French court. He was one of those appointed to meet Anne of Cleves, King Henry's fourth wife, at Calais on 13 December 1539. A few weeks later he was sent to Ferdinand, King of Hungary and brother of Charles V, Holy Roman Emperor to enlist support for Henry against France and Scotland. He arrived at Vienna in July, and remained there two years. In May 1543, he was appointed ambassador to the Netherlands. He was given this posting to remove him from King Henry's court, for the King's marriage to Catherine Parr. War breaking out between England and France, Seymour was made marshal of the English army in the Netherlands on 26 June, being second in command to Sir John Wallop. On 24 July 1543, with a strong detachment, he captured and destroyed the castles of Rinquecen and Arbrittayne near the French city of Boulogne. For a short time, he held the chief command during Wallop's illness. Due to his position of privilege as a royal uncle and as a reward for his services, Thomas was made Master-General of the Ordnance in 1544 and Lord Warden of the Cinque Ports in 1545, both very senior military positions. \n\nHe returned to court just before King Henry VIII died in January 1547, leaving Catherine one of the wealthiest women in England. According to the King's will, a regency council was constituted to rule on behalf of the 9-year-old orphaned King Edward. As the uncles of the king, both Thomas and Edward Seymour were members of the regency council. As part of an \"unfulfilled gifts clause\" left unmentioned in Henry's will (and of dubious authenticity), the members of the council granted themselves, on behalf of the king, lavish gifts and titles. Thomas became 1st Baron Seymour of Sudeley. Edward became Edward Seymour, 1st Duke of Somerset, and is often, therefore, referred to as \"Somerset.\" In addition, Thomas saw his brother rise, in the contentious and dangerous politics of the English Reformation, to the position of chief councilor with an approved title of \"Protector\" regent, referred to unofficially as Lord Protector of England, in effect, ruler of the realm as Regent for his nephew, the king. Thomas, unsurprisingly, began to resent his brother and the relationship between them began to dissolve. Although Thomas was named Lord High Admiral as a concession, he was consumed by jealousy of his brother's power and influence and worked to unseat and replace his brother as Lord Protector.\n\nThomas Seymour sought to over-turn his brother's position on the regency council by his personal influence over the young king, and also possibly, by making a royal marriage. Although his name had been linked to Mary Howard, Duchess of Richmond, he was still unmarried at the time of the King's death. He had previously shown some interest in marrying either of Henry's daughters, Elizabeth or Mary; however, within weeks of Henry's death, Thomas had rekindled the affair with Catherine Parr, and they were secretly married in April or May 1547, too soon after the king's death to suit many. \nAnne Stanhope, Somerset's proud wife, disliked Catherine and Thomas and began to turn many people in court against them. To demonstrate her hatred, Anne kept the Queen's jewels, which by right were Catherine's. In turn, Catherine was annoyed at the appointment of Edward Seymour (Duke of Somerset) as Protector regent, since as King Edward's stepmother, she had expected to be appointed regent..\n\nUpon their marriage, Thomas moved into his wife's house, at Chelsea Manor in London, where she lived with her step-daughter, the 14-year-old Elizabeth. Thomas was the uncle of Elizabeth's half-brother, and the newly wed husband of her step-mother, and their family roles regarding each other were, perhaps, unclear. Now, living under the same roof as Elizabeth, Thomas became more than a little familiar, if not intimate, with Elizabeth, indulging in daily romps with her, tickling her, and slapping her on her behind as she lay in her bed, or coming into her room in his nightclothes. Her governess, Kat Ashley, thought this scandalous, and reported it to Catherine. Indignant, Thomas retorted, 'By God's precious soul, I mean no evil, and I will not leave it!' At first, Catherine dismissed the behaviour as just innocent fun, and even joined in the romps on a few occasions. Elizabeth's feelings regarding this behaviour are unknown, but it was said that she bore Thomas some degree of affection. And though her governess, Kat Ashley, \"bade him go away in shame,\" she found him more amusing than dangerous. When Catherine was pregnant in the spring of 1548, she had become concerned enough about her husband's flirtatious relationship with Elizabeth that she sent Elizabeth away to live with Anthony Denny and his wife, Joan Champernowne (Kat Ashley's sister), in Hertfordshire. In June 1548, Catherine and Thomas Seymour moved their household from London to Sudeley Castle, the property granted to Seymour when he became Baron Seymour of Sudeley. In September 1548, Catherine gave birth to a daughter, Mary Seymour. In the following days, she became uncharacteristically hostile and delusional. Thomas lay in bed with her to quiet her, but she did not get better, and died of complications due to childbirth, just before Elizabeth's 15th birthday. Upon her death, Catherine bequeathed all of her possessions to Thomas, making him one of the richest men in England. He said he was \"amazed\" at her death; yet it opened up new opportunities to him, as his eye returned to Elizabeth. From fear or shrewdness, she avoided him, returning, with her governess, Kat Ashley, to her childhood home, Hatfield House.\n\nDespite his great wealth and high position, Thomas could not come to terms with his brother's appointment as Protector; and in his struggle with Somerset, he tried to ingratiate himself with the king, who was just a little boy. He sought the 9-year-old Edward to write a letter on his behalf in support of his marriage to the dowager queen, Catherine Parr. The letter was obviously dictated by Thomas for Edward's signature and only enraged Somerset. He began to visit Edward frequently, secretly giving him an extravagant allowance of coins, so that Edward might be satisfied in feeling more grown-up and more king-like, giving gifts to his servants, teachers, and friends. Even though he lived in sumptuous splendor, and wanting for nothing, no provisions had been made for Edward's pocket money and he became accustomed to these regular payments and began to ask Thomas freely for his allowance. Thomas continued his manipulation of the king. In trying to get a bill through Parliament making him Edward's personal Governor, Thomas requested Edward's royal signature on the bill. But Edward was uncertain, and reluctant to go behind the back of the Protector, Somerset, and of the regency council, and he would not sign it. Thomas persistently pressured Edward, until Edward felt threatened. But Thomas did not give up. He tried to persuade Edward that he did not need a Protector, getting Edward to admit that it might be better for Somerset to die. It is not known what the king meant by this, but it was probably uttered innocently. Thomas intended that the king's royal signature and personal support would destabilize Somerset's position as Protector, and as a member of the regency council. In his frustration and inability to gain any significant influence over the king, Thomas began to think in terms of open rebellion. Although he was a boy, King Edward did not seem completely naïve regarding any of this. For, it is recorded that Edward referred to William Parr, his step-mother's brother, as \"mine honest uncle,\" indicating unspoken scorn for both of his Seymour uncles.\n\nWhen Lord Somerset, the Protector, invaded Scotland in the summer of 1547 and was absent from court, his brother, Thomas, fomented opposition to his authority, voicing open disapproval of his brother's administrative skills. Because his activities seemed suspicious, several members of the nobility advised him to be content with his position, but he would not listen. As Lord High Admiral, he was able to control the English navy, and he openly asked for support in case of a rebellion. He entered into relations with pirates on the western coasts, whom it was his duty as Lord High Admiral to suppress, with a view to securing their support. Thomas seems also to have hoped to finance a rebellion through crooked dealings with the vice-treasurer of the Bristol Mint, Sir William Sharington.\n\nBy 1548, the regency council was becoming aware of Thomas's bid for power. Somerset tried to save his brother from ruin, calling a council meeting so that Thomas might explain himself. However, Thomas did not appear. On the night of 16 January 1549, for reasons that are not clear (perhaps to take the young king away in his own custody), Thomas was caught trying to break into the King's apartments at Hampton Court Palace. He entered the privy garden and awoke one of the King's pet spaniels. In response to the dog's barking, he shot and killed it. The next day, he was arrested and sent to the Tower of London. The incident, being caught outside the king's bedroom, at night, with a loaded pistol, was interpreted in the most menacing light, even casting suspicion on Elizabeth's involvement with Thomas. On 18 January, the council sent agents to question everyone associated with Thomas, including Elizabeth. On 22 February, the council officially accused him of thirty-three charges of treason. He was convicted of treason, and condemned to death and executed on 20 March 1549.\n\nWhen he was arrested for treason, Seymour's associates were also cast under suspicion, including 15-year-old Elizabeth. Distraught over Thomas's arrest, she did not realize her own danger until her servants, including her beloved governess, Kat, were also arrested. Upon realizing that Thomas would probably be executed, she was noticeably disconsolate, trying to free herself and her servants from suspicion. The regency council was sure of her complicity with Thomas, and sought to bully an easy confession from her. She was interrogated relentlessly for weeks. But the council found itself in a sharply defined game of wits with Elizabeth, who proved to be a master of logic, defiance, and shrewdness. The embarrassing details of the flirtatious incidents with Thomas came to light. But there was no evidence that Elizabeth had conspired with him.\n\nThis incident was a sign of Elizabeth's strong and distinctive personality. This difficult experience seems to have made her, for the first time in her young life, fully aware of the serious, even deadly, nature of her succession rights to the throne. When she made her first public appearance at court 18 months later, just turning 17, she dressed in a simple, sombre manner with plain and unadorned hair. This contrasted sharply with the showy splendor of the other ladies present, as if she was trying to live down the scandal of her association with Thomas.\n\nAfter his execution, all of Thomas's property was seized by the Crown. Mary Seymour′s father′s attainder was reversed by Parliament in 1550-although the property was not returned; Mary is believed to have died at about the age of two years soon afterward.\n\nIn the 1953 movie \"Young Bess\", Stewart Granger was cast as Seymour. The plot, largely a romance between him and Princess Elizabeth (played by 24 year old Jean Simmons), had very little historical accuracy.\n\n\nAttribution\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8356188", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8356188", "title": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Sierra Leone)", "text": "Truth and Reconciliation Commission (Sierra Leone)\n\nThe Sierra Leone Truth and Reconciliation Commission was established as a condition of the Lomé Peace Accord with the assistance of the international community in the wake of the 11 year civil war there. It was signed by President Ahmad Tejan Kabbah and RUF leader Foday Sankoh on July 7, 1999. the Truth and Reconciliation Commission's mandate was to \"create an impartial historical record of violations and abuses of human rights and international humanitarian law related to the armed conflict in Sierra Leone, from the beginning of the Conflict in 1991 to the signing of the Lome Peace Agreement; to address impunity, to respond to the needs of the victims, to promote healing and reconciliation and to prevent a repetition of the violations and abuses suffered.\"\nIt was chaired by retired Rev. Dr. Joseph Christian Humper.\n\nThe commission operated from November 2002 to October 2004. The first phase of its operation consisted of statement taking throughout the country, followed by a phase of public hearings. The Commission made its final report to both the Sierra Leonean government and the United Nations Security Council in 2004. The final report includes both the names of individual perpetrators and recommendations for the government moving forward. \n\n"}
{"id": "27956372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27956372", "title": "United Nations Dispute Tribunal", "text": "United Nations Dispute Tribunal\n\nThe United Nations Dispute Tribunal (UNDT) is the court of first instance in the internal justice system of the United Nations. It became operational on 1 July 2009. The UNDT \"hears and decides cases\" filed by current and former staff members \"appealing administrative decisions alleged to be in non-compliance with their terms of appointment or contract of employment\". The staff members as well as the Administration have a \"right to appeal the judgments of the UNDT to the United Nations Appeals Tribunal (UNAT)\". In order to ensure the independence of this organ, it is composed not of officials of the Organization, but by judges appointed by the Member States of the United Nations through the General Assembly, from which UNDT derives its mandate.\"\n\nAs a first step in the formal system, a staff member who wishes to contest an administrative decision will have to request a management evaluation. When no resolution through informal means can be arrived at, and when the result of the management evaluation is not to the satisfaction of the staff member, the staff member can file an application to the United Nations Dispute Tribunal.\n\nThe UN Dispute Tribunal examines the facts of the case, and conducts, where necessary, oral proceedings. These proceedings are normally held in public. Cases before the Dispute Tribunal are usually considered by a single judge, but in cases that are particularly complex or important a three-judge panel may be convened.The judgments of the Dispute Tribunal are binding. The full text of the Statute of the UN Dispute Tribunal is contained in the annex to General Assembly resolution A/RES/63/253.\n\nUN Dispute Tribunal has registries in New York City, Geneva and Nairobi. The geographical coverage of these is as follows:\n\nParties to the proceedings, i.e., the Applicant and the Respondent, have full access to all Judicial records which are defined as \"Case-related materials which form part of the official case record of the Tribunal as kept by the Registry, including, but not limited to,filings made by parties in the cases, issuances of the Tribunal, transcripts, audio and video recordings of hearings and exhibits admitted in the cases.\" The custodian of the records of the Dispute Tribunal is the Registry. Access to audio-visual recordings of oral proceedings, is subject to \"the need to protect personal data\", and are granted, usually through electronic means, on a written request addressed to the Registrar.\n\nThe judges in the tribunal are given an administrative rank, and protocol status, which is below Assistant Secretary General. The relatively low rank of judges, according to the New York Times, makes those higher in UN hierarchy feel that it is \"beneath them\" to answer to the tribunal. Judges do not have power to declare people who do not do its bidding in contempt of court, and are thus dependent on the UN Secretariat to act in good faith in its dealings with the Tribunal. Judge Michael F. Adams, an Australian judge, at the end of his tenure in the tribunal commenting on accountability in UN system observed “Someone in the position of Under Secretary General is never confronted with the requirement that particular questions be answered.” There have been cases in which the orders of the judge to produce documents and witnesses, have been ignored by the United Nations. The United Nations response to the tribunal has, its critic argue, been contradictory, even hypocritical, in view of the organizations standing as the international guardian and promoter of rule of law. George Irving, a former lawyer with over 30 years of experience of the UN Justice system, said, “The organization has to decide from the S.G. on down whether this is an organization that respects the rule of law or not”.\n\nThe UN Dispute Tribunal operates on a full-time basis.The UNDT is composed of \"three full-time Judges, two half-time Judges and three ad litem judges\". The Judges are appointed by the General Assembly. The current composition of the Tribunal is as follows:\n\n\n\nAd litem judges\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46662537", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46662537", "title": "Venetian Patent Statute", "text": "Venetian Patent Statute\n\nThe Venetian Patent Statute of March 19, 1474, established in the Republic of Venice the first statutory patent system in Europe, and may be deemed to be the earliest codified patent system in the world. The Statute is written in old Venetian dialect. It provided that patents might be granted for \"any new and ingenious device, not previously made\", provided it was useful. By and large, these principles still remain the basic principles of patent law.\n\nThe dominant view among historians and legal scholars is that the Venetian Patent Act provides the legal foundation of the modern patent system. Meshbesher observing \"the impact of the Venetian patent law and practice on the history of patent law has been studied by several authors and is well-recognized, hence the first \"patent statute\" [author's emphasis] is usually considered to be the one was enacted (\"sic\") in the Republic of Venice in 1474\". \n\nThe most widely accepted translation of the old Venetian dialect original is reproduced below.\n\nOne leading patent scholar also stating that \"the international patent experience of nearly 500 years has merely brought amendments or improvements upon the solid core established in Renaissance Venice\".\n\nSome historians question this dominant view and claim that the Venetian Patent Statute of 1474 \"functioned primarily as a codification of prior customs [and] did not introduce new principles. \"Neither did it mark the beginnings of the modern patent system.\" According to Joanna Kostylo, \"[i]t should best understood as declaratory instrument codifying existing general principles and customs of granting patent rights for innovations in Venice\". Accordingly she states that the significance of the Venetian statute lies \"in its broad and general character,\" in the sense that it attempted to \"apply general rules to the granting of patents rather than conferring occasional individual favours (gratiae) in response to individual petitions.\" It is also significant that the \"legislation focuse[d] on protecting and rewarding individual inventors, in contrast to monopolies reserved to organized groups (guilds).\"\n\nThis alternative view is hard to reconcile with the large shift in patenting activity observed after 1474. As observed by Allan Gomme former librarian of the UK Patent Office \"there was, then, a regular practice of granting patents in Venice which began about 1475..\". See also Statistics, below. The majority view remains that the Venetian Patent Statute marked a watershed moment and was indeed the first basis for a patent system, notwithstanding earlier isolated patents having been issued.\n\nBetween 1474 and 1788, the Venetian Senate granted about 2000 patents: 28 between 1474 and 1500, 593 between 1500 and 1600, 605 between 1600 and 1700, and 670 between 1700 and 1788. Venetian patents were granted free of payment, \"which explains their relatively high number\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4720842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4720842", "title": "Washington v. Glucksberg", "text": "Washington v. Glucksberg\n\nWashington v. Glucksberg, 521 U.S. 702 (1997), was a landmark case in which the Supreme Court of the United States unanimously held that a right to assisted suicide in the United States was not protected by the Due Process Clause.\n\nDr. Harold Glucksberg, a physician; four other physicians; three terminally-ill patients; and the non-profit organization Compassion in Dying challenged Washington State's ban against assisted suicide in the Natural Death Act of 1979. They claimed that assisted suicide was a liberty interest protected by the Due Process Clause of the Fourteenth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nOn May 3, 1994, US District Court Judge Barbara Jacobs Rothstein ruled in favor of Glucksberg. On March 9, 1995, however, the United States Court of Appeals for the Ninth Circuit reversed, with Judge John T. Noonan Jr. joined by Diarmuid O'Scannlain. Then, after rehearing the case \"en banc\", the Ninth Circuit on May 28, 1996, reversed the earlier panel and affirmed the District Court's decision, in an opinion by Judge Stephen Reinhardt. \n\nWashington Attorney General Christine Gregoire petitioned the Supreme Court for a writ of certiorari, which was granted. The case was argued before the Supreme Court on January 8, 1997. Walter E. Dellinger III, the acting Solicitor General of the United States, appeared as an \"amicus curiae\", urging reversal. The question presented was whether the protection of the Due Process Clause included a right to commit suicide and to commit suicide with another's assistance.\n\nChief Justice Rehnquist wrote the majority opinion for the court. His decision reversed the Ninth Circuit's decision that the ban on physician-assisted suicide was a violation of the Due Process Clause. The Court held that because assisted suicide is not a fundamental liberty interest, it was not protected under the Fourteenth Amendment. As previously decided in \"Moore v. East Cleveland\", liberty interests not \"deeply rooted in the nation's history\" do not qualify as being a protected liberty interest.\n\nAssisted suicide, the court found, had been frowned upon for centuries and a majority of the states had similar bans on assisted suicide. Rehnquist found the English common law penalties associated with assisted suicide particularly significant. For example, at early common law the state confiscated the property of a person who committed suicide.\n\nLike Blackmun in \"Roe v. Wade\", Rehnquist used English common law to establish American tradition as a yardstick for determining what rights were \"deeply rooted in the nation's history.\" Rehnquist cited \"Roe v. Wade\" and \"Planned Parenthood v. Casey\" in the opinion.\n\nThe Court felt that the ban was rational in that it furthered such compelling state interests as the preservation of human life and the protection of the mentally ill and disabled from medical malpractice and coercion. It also prevented those moved to end their lives because of financial or psychological complications. The Court also felt that if it declared physician-assisted suicide a constitutionally protected right, it would start down the path to voluntary and perhaps involuntary euthanasia.\n\nJustice O'Connor concurred. Justices Souter, Ginsburg, Breyer, and Stevens each wrote opinions concurring in the judgment of the court.\n\nIn 2008 Washington State voters approved 58%–42% the Washington Death with Dignity Act, which established guidelines for using the services of a physician to terminate one's life.\n\n\n"}
