{"id": "55366814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55366814", "title": "1950 Wynder and Graham Study", "text": "1950 Wynder and Graham Study\n\nThe 1950 Wynder and Graham Study was conducted by Ernest Wynder and Evarts Graham and was entitled \"Tobacco Smoking as a Possible Etiologic Factor in Bronchiogenic Carcinoma: A Study of Six Hundred and Eighty-Four Proved Cases\". It was published on May 27, 1950. It was a case-control study to determine the relationship between various external factors and the development of bronchogenic carcinoma. The study concluded that long-term tobacco usage contributes to the onset of lung cancer, as an overwhelming majority (96.5%) of the men with the disease were classified as moderate to heavy smokers for an extended period of time, compared to a lower percentage of the general hospital population control group.\n\nStudies conducted before smoking and lung cancer were scientifically related connected a higher rate of smoking to lung cancer incidence, and eventually mortality 20 years later. In 1775, Percivall Pott’s discovery of the high incidence of scrotal cancer in chimney sweeps demonstrated that charred organic substances were carcinogenic. Wynder used Pott’s research as a foundation for his argument that his hypothesis that smoking leads to the development of lung cancer was biologically valid. In 1912, Isaac Adler connected the rise in primary lung cancer to consumption of cigarettes because of the different smoking habits of men and women. Men experienced higher incidences of lung cancer and also smoked much more than women. Other early researchers include: Joseph Bloodgood (1921) who demonstrated a link between tongue cancer and tobacco, founder of the American Cancer Society Frederick Hoffman (1924) who proved excessive smoking caused cancer development in the mouth and lungs, and Morton Lenvin (1950) who analyzed hospital data to show the positive correlation between tobacco and lung cancer (1950).\n\nDespite this growing evidence linking tobacco usage to lung cancer, in 1950 the scientific consensus was that lung cancer was caused by industrial and automotive polluters. Richard Doll, a prominent scientist who conducted the British Doctors Study with Austin Bradford Hill in 1951, theorized that smoking was not considered an obvious factor because everyone participated in it, yet not everyone developed lung cancer. Scientists believed many other factors were responsible for the development of lung cancer, such as automobile exhaust, coal fumes, infectious diseases, race, and better diagnostic technologies. Moreover, it was deemed unlikely that a single preventable factor, such as smoking, could alone cause such a complicated outcome like cancer.\n\nIn the fifty years leading up to the Wynder and Graham study, lung cancer was observed to have risen dramatically and disproportionately in comparison to other cancers. From the 1920s to 1950, the year of the study's publication, deaths from lung cancer had quadrupled so now it was the leading cancer found in men. This follows the upward trend of smoking that peaked 20 years prior due to its social pervasiveness, global association with glamour and camaraderie, and the heavy influence of the Tobacco Industry.\n\nErnst Wynder was a medical student when he came up with the idea to link smoking with cancer when he witnessed the blackened lungs of a man with lung cancer and later learned that he was a heavy smoker. Wynder sought the assistance of Evarts Graham, a thoracic surgeon and head of the surgery department. Although Graham did not believe in the increased risk of lung cancer from smoking, as he smoked excessively, he enabled Wynder to conduct a case-control study by providing subjects with lung cancer to interview. In 1948, Wynder began distributing questionnaires at Bellevue Hospital asking individual habits, such as smoking, and by 1949 he had data from over 200 patients that proved smoking and lung cancer were correlated. When these findings were presented at the American Cancer Society 1949 national meeting, the lack of audience response reflected a dismissal of smoking as a causal factor for lung cancer. The 1950 Wynder and Graham Study was the first large-scale study to investigate link between smoking and cancer. It differed from previous studies because of the size of the test group, and clear, statistically-significant results.\n\nThe objective of this research was to design a clinical study to assess multiple external factors in the onset of bronchogenic carcinoma, and which activities or predisposed determinants increase risk for lung cancer.\n\nThis study was a retrospective, case-control study that compared smoking habits of 684 individuals with bronchogenic carcinoma to those without the condition. The survey included questions about smoking: starting age, 20 year tobacco consumption, brands used; as well as inquires about exposure to hazardous agents in the workplace, alcohol use, and causes of death for family members. Researchers obtained information through “special interviews” with patients from hospitals across the nation. Since hospital records provided insufficient information for the scope of this study, trained staff interviewed 634 patients, and the remaining subjects were either mailed the survey or had a close contact answer on their behalf. In addition to current smoking habits, surveys asked about patients' smoking habits for the last 20 years due to the hypothesis of delayed emergence of cancer in smokers. Below is a list of the questions on the etiologic survey:\n(Note: questions above were reproduced from Table 1: \"Etiologic Survey\" of Wynder and Graham's study)\n\nSubjects were classified into two categories: cases, those with bronchogenic carcinoma, and controls, those without the condition. There were 605 microscopic confirmations of the disease. The \"general hospital population\" group consisted of 780 men and 552 women without cancer. Furthermore, control studies were added to minimize bias from interviewers, and the compare the incidence of lung cancer with exposure to other factors among the different groups. Control study 1 included 100 men with lung cancer and 186 with other chest diseases, and its interviewers were not affiliated with the hospitals and did not know patients' diagnoses. Control study II involved 83 individuals with lung cancer and involved a similar survey administered by doctors who were not under the oversight of these researchers. Finally, the researchers equated the age distributions of lung cancer and non-cancer groups. The total percentage of patients with cancer in a particular age group was used as a benchmark to adjust the percentages of nonsmokers.\n\nTo organize the data, smokers were classified as nonsmokers, light, moderately heavy, heavy, excessive, and chain. Individuals in the study were evaluated based on average daily consumption of cigarettes, age, history of disease, and occupation - the latter two to avoid confounding variables. Researchers wondered if there was a connection between an increased consumption of cigarettes for a longer period of time and a higher prevalence of lung cancer in these individuals, excluding adenocarcinoma.\n\nThe Wynder and Graham study was significant due to the segmentation of risk groups by quantity smoked and the period of tobacco usage. Also, this study sought to reduce confounding variables and selection bias.\n\nThe key finding of the study was that of the men in the study, men with lung cancer were more likely to be long-term smokers than those without the disease. Thus, researchers concluded that smoking is responsible for the onset of bronchogenic carcinoma, but did not establish a causal relationship between smoking cigarettes and developing lung cancer. There was also an evident dose-response relationship: as average daily cigarette consumption increased, so did the amount of people with lung cancer as opposed to ones without the disease. Additionally, cigarette usage was shown to contribute to the development of other forms of cancer and heart disease Also, the control studies conducted by \"third party\" physicians exhibit corresponding results to the data gathered by researchers.\n\nConcerning age distributions, 2.3% with lung cancer were younger than 40 years of age, meanwhile 79.3% were older than 50. In the general hospital population, 14.6% were nonsmokers, but there were only 1.3% nonsmokers within the lung cancer group. Likewise, 54.7% in the general hospital group classify themselves as heavy and chain smokers, whereas 86.4% in the lung cancer group smoke the same amount. Also, when focusing on the excessive smokers subset, there is a 32.1% difference in excessive smokers in the lung cancer group and general hospital group.\n\nResearchers assessed different methods of smoking, such as cigarette, pipe, and cigar. They found that almost all smokers consumed cigarettes, 4% smoked pipes, and 3.5% smoked cigars. When polling for inhalation, they discovered cigarette smoke is inhaled more often than that of cigars or pipes. Also, women smoke a lot less than men, and there was not enough data to link smoking to lung cancer in these cases. Therefore, Wynder conducted separate study on women in 1956.\n\nThe study concluded that 96.5% of men with bronchogenic carcinoma were heavy to chain smokers, compared to 73.7% of the general population. Statistically, it was rare to find cases of epidermoid or undifferentiated carcinoma in males who haven’t been heavy smokers. Moreover, 96.1% of people with lung cancer smoked for over 20 years, which leads the researchers to hypothesize a 10-year or more lag time between starting smoking and exhibiting the first signs of cancer. Since the overwhelming majority of smokers smoked cigarettes and more cigarette users inhale, this was thought to be a factor in developing lung cancer at a higher rate.\n\nMost importantly, the study proved a dose-dependent relationship. Subjects who developed lung cancer smoked more excessively and for a more prolonged period of time than individuals who did not develop the disease.\n\nThe Wynder and Graham 1950 study was able to conclude that \"smoking was an important factor in the production of bronchogenic carcinoma,\" but smoking wasn't established as a causal factor until four years later, when Wynder published another paper entitled, \"Tobacco as a Cause of Lung Cancer\" The same year Wynder and Graham published their findings, Doll and Hill conducted their own case-control study that reaffirmed smoking raises the chance of developing lung cancer. Several major studies were published three quarters of a year apart in 1950 that reached the same conclusion: smoking is related to lung cancer.\n\nPublic outrage immediately following these papers was underwhelming. In fact, both the scientific and medical sectors cast doubt on the findings, characterizing these study results as controversial. Doll theorized that this state of denial was due to the ubiquity of smoking, and consequently, the public dismissed the dangers of cigarettes since not everyone who smoked developed lung cancer. Additionally, the tobacco industry obscured and distorted these scientific conclusions to dissuade public recognition of the harmful results of smoking, and denied causal link between cigarettes and lung cancer. The tobacco industry appealed to people's desire for freedom and opposition to paternalism. It conveyed the message that the decision to smoke should be left to each individual: in America the government does not have the authority to dictate each person's lifestyle choices.\n\nIn 1962, the Surgeon General Luther Terry assembled a task force to review the evidence. Two years later, he released the 1964 \",\" which stated that smoking is a definitive causal factor for lung cancer in men and a probable cause in women. As a result, statistics indicate that the public took notice of this health advisory, since smoking decreased by 5% several months following the report. Congressional action followed during the next several years with the Federal Cigarette Labeling and Advertising Act of 1965 and the Public Health Cigarette Smoking Act of 1970. This legislation resulted in health warnings on cigarette boxes, and prevention of broadcast cigarette advertisements. Additionally, in 1983 the federal cigarette tax doubled (the last cigarette tax increase occurred over 30 years earlier to support the Korean War).\n"}
{"id": "20572713", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20572713", "title": "2008 Irish pork crisis", "text": "2008 Irish pork crisis\n\nThe Irish pork crisis of 2008 was a dioxin contamination incident in Ireland that led to an international recall of pork products from Ireland produced between September and early December of that year. It was disclosed in early December 2008 that contaminated animal feed supplied by one Irish manufacturer to thirty-seven beef farms and nine pig farms across Republic of Ireland, and eight beef farms and one dairy farm in Northern Ireland, had caused the contamination of pork with between 80 and 200 times the EU's recommended limit for dioxins and dioxin-like PCBs \"i.e.\" 0.2 ng/g TEQ fat (0.2 ppb). The Food Safety Authority of Ireland moved on 6 December to recall from the market all Irish pork products dating from 1 September 2008 to that date. The contaminated feed that was supplied to forty-five beef farms across the island was judged to have caused no significant public health risk, accordingly no recall of beef was ordered. Also affected was a dairy farm in Northern Ireland; some milk supplies were withdrawn from circulation.\n\nWithin days thousands of jobs were either lost or under threat at pig processing plants across the country, as processors refused to resume slaughter of pigs until they received financial compensation. Pork supplies to a total of twenty-three countries was affected, thirteen within the European Union and the remainder outside in an area across at least three continents. Countries affected include: Italy, Germany, the Netherlands, Poland, Sweden, Denmark, Belgium, Estonia, the UK, France, Portugal, Cyprus, Romania, Russia, the United States, Canada, Switzerland, China, South Korea, Japan and Republic of Singapore.\n\nIt is now suspected that the oil that contaminated the offending pig feed with dioxins came from County Tyrone. Some reports suggest the recovery of the Irish pork market will take up to a decade. The Irish government has been criticised over its handling of the incident.\n\nOn 18 December 2008, it was disclosed that the beef samples from the affected farms had dioxin levels between 100 and 400 times the legal limit. However the Irish authorities insisted that the threat to public health from Irish beef products, even though the dioxin levels were higher than in the affected pork, was insignificant. On 25 January 2009, Chinese quarantine authorities seized over 23 tonnes of frozen and contaminated Irish pork which was imported by a company in the city of Suzhou in October 2008. On 28 January 2009, Joint Oireachtas Committee on Agriculture was told by Indaver Ireland managing director John Ahern that Ireland could \"sleepwalk\" into another pork crisis if the Minister for the Environment, John Gormley, continued with his plans to commence widespread use of mechanical biological treatment.\n\nOn the evening of 6 December, the Food Safety Authority of Ireland ordered the recall, withdrawal and destruction of all Irish pork products dating back to 1 September. It was announced that \"dioxins & dioxin like PCBs\", a group of highly toxic synthetic halogenated organic compounds, had been discovered in pork at levels between 80 and 200 times the EU's recommended safety limits. This contamination, which was first realised on 1 December, came about as a result of contamination of pig feed. The positive results for dioxins and dioxin like PCBs were confirmed on the afternoon of 6 December and announced within hours. The Irish general public were advised to destroy all their purchased pork products as Ireland's Department of Agriculture and the Food Safety Authority had initiated an investigation.\nContaminated feed was used at as many as forty-six farms in the Republic of Ireland of which thirty-seven raised cattle for beef and nine produced pork. Additionally, contaminated feed was used on eight cattle farms in Northern Ireland. Beef products, from cattle who may have been fed contaminated feed, were judged to be safe and were not recalled from market. One cattle farm in Northern Ireland used the feed for beef and dairy cattle, and milk from this farm was removed from the food supply.\n\nFollowing the discovery, the Taoiseach, Brian Cowen and the Irish Minister for Agriculture, Fisheries and Food, Brendan Smith attended talks at their government's Department of Agriculture. Alongside them were the Minister for Health, Mary Harney and Minister of State for Food, Horticulture and Food Safety, Minister of State for Food and Horticulture, Trevor Sargent and Minister of State (with special responsibility for Health Promotion and Food Safety), Mary Wallace. The opposition party Fine Gael's spokesperson for agriculture, Michael Creed described the discovery as \"potentially the biggest threat to the agriculture food sector since the outbreak of foot-and-mouth disease\".\n\nOn the afternoon of 7 December, the FSAI claimed identification of the source as a contaminated ingredient which had been added to pork feed, and said it was now considered that the profile of dioxins located is similar to those found in electronic transformer oils. On the evening of that same day, RTÉ, the state-run broadcaster, reported that the source of the crisis was a processing plant in County Carlow \"(see #Millstream Power Recycling Limited)\". A garda investigation was launched. The Association of Pigmeat Processors refused to continue slaughtering pigs, insisting they needed a massive financial package (up to €1 billion) from the Irish government to assist them with the mass recall. The European Union maintained that there would be no funding for the Irish pork industry in the wake of the crisis. Fine Gael leader Enda Kenny criticised the Irish government, calling the crisis \"an unmitigated disaster\".\n\nMost pork products are at risk of contamination; however, pork gelatine, products containing pork gelatine such as sweets, crisps and snack foods and sauces with pork or ham content are not.\n\nDioxins and polychlorinated biphenyls (PCBs) are two groups of predominately man-made toxic chemicals which, when consumed, affect both the immune and reproductive systems and are classified as probably carcinogenic by the World Health Organization and in the United States by the National Cancer Institute and the Agency for Toxic Substances and Disease Registry. The toxicity of dioxins and dioxin like PCBs is mediated by their ability to bind strongly to the aryl hydrocarbon cell receptor that is present in most animals.\n\nSeveral epidemiological studies have observed a correlation between high levels of dioxins and PCBs in humans and a wide variety of adverse health effects \"e.g.\" chloracne, lowering of IQ, dysfunction of the thyroid gland and reduction of thyroid hormone levels, elevated rates of endometriosis in women, higher levels of diabetes in women, precocious puberty in females and subtle developmental delay in children, as evidenced by altered play activity. Males appear to be more sensitive to poisoning by high levels of dioxins & dioxin-like PCBs and are more likely to develop severe symptoms \"e.g.\" young men poisoned by TCDD (the most toxic dioxin) are less likely to father boys. See Geusau \"et al.\" (2001) who describe the clinical manifestations of two extremely severe (and probably criminal) dioxin poisoning cases.\n\nMuch of the hazard posed by dioxins and PCBs comes from their environmental persistence and their lipophilic nature, resulting their propensity to accumulate in the food chain, particularity in the fat of animals. About 80% of human exposure to dioxins and PCBs comes from animal derived foods \"e.g.\" poultry, beef and dairy. However, the health effects and risks of long-term, low-level exposure to the general public cannot be observed directly, and are highly controversial. It is not known if the dose response relationship at low-levels of exposure is sub-linear or linear, or has a threshold \"i.e.\" harmless at very low levels. Risk assessments are further complicated by the observation that contamination typically involves a complex mixture of related chemicals, the toxicity of each varies and has to be factored according to its Toxic Equivalency Factor (TEF) (where TCDD = 1). The product of TEF is the Toxic Equivalent Quantity (TEQ), and it is this value that is used in risk assessments (an on-line Toxic Equivalency Quantity Calculator).\n\nThe European Union (EU) uses a linear dose response curve at low-levels of exposure, below the point where there are epidemiological data. In other words, the EU assumes there is \"no\" safe level of dioxins and PCBs. Accordingly, the European Union sets extremely stringent limits for dioxin and dioxin like PCBs in food, set just above the usual background levels found in various food categories \"e.g.\" fish, poultry, beef, pork etc. The limit set for dioxins in pork fat and meat is 1 pg/g TEQ \"i.e.\" 1 parts per trillion (ppt) (see swimming pool illustration). The maximum dioxin contamination measured in Irish pork was 0.2 ng/g TEQ fat (200 ppt), equivalent to dispersing 10 drops of TCDD throughout a 2.5 million litre Olympic sized swimming pool.\n\nRTÉ News has named the company behind the contaminated animal feed as Millstream Power Recycling Limited, located just outside Fenagh, County Carlow in the south-east of the country. All production at the plant was stopped in the week before the announcement, when a link between it and the contaminated feed was first suspected. A representative of the firm, David Curtin, denied reports of a use of industrial oil in the contaminated pig feed, saying that, whilst oil is used to power the machinery used for processing, he is not certain that this is the source of the outbreak. The oil, at the firm's insistence, was only ever purchased from \"legitimate suppliers\" within the Republic of Ireland. The owner of Millstream Power Recycling Limited was named as Robert Hogg (43).\n\nThe pork industry is the fourth biggest in Ireland's agriculture sector, worth around €400 million per year to the Irish economy. The country's farms produce over 3 million pigs per annum, almost 50% of which are consumed within the Republic. The remainder is exported, heavily to the neighbouring territories of Northern Ireland and Britain, but it also features in grocery stores and processed meats throughout two continents – Europe and Asia. In 2007, Ireland exported 113,000 tons of pig meat, nearly half of which went to the United Kingdom. Over 500,000 live pigs were also shipped to the UK for slaughter and processing in that country. Ireland's other major customers of its pork are Germany, the buyer of 9,000 tons in 2007; France, Italy and several countries within the boundaries of Eastern Europe, which together purchased over 20,000 tons, Russia, the buyer of 6,600 tons, and China, which came into the ownership of 1,100 tons.\nWithin two days of the first announcement 1,800 jobs had been lost in the Irish pig industry with a further 6,000 jobs said to be at risk by Ireland's largest trade union SIPTU. Ireland's largest pig meat processor, Rosderra Irish Meats Group Ltd., turned away all of its 850 employees at four plants on 8 December, telling them to sign up for state unemployment benefits. Workers in the pork industry who were laid off in the wake of the crisis, including those from affected plants in Edenderry, Waterford and Kilkenny, were carried out a lunchtime protest at Leinster House (government buildings in Dublin) on 11 December. SIPTU organised the demonstration citing \"delays in resuming production\" and the financial \"dire straits\" some workers were in as their reasons.\nProcessors halted the slaughtering of pigs until the Irish government promised them financial reparation. c.100,000 pigs were slaughtered and the estimated costs of the crisis was €100 million.\n\nWithin hours a number of local newspapers in Ireland including the \"Longford Leader\" and the \"Leitrim Observer\" had reproduced copies of the same Press Association article.\n\nThe Food Safety Authority of Ireland moved immediately to reassure the general public of Ireland. Speaking on RTÉ Radio on the morning after the initial announcement, Deputy chief executive of the FSAI, Alan Reilly said it was \"necessary as a precautionary measure\" to remove all pork products from within the country. He said he \"expected\" pork products to be available again before the busy Christmas period got underway and is scheduled to meet government officials and retailers within hours. Irish hotels and guesthouses were immediately notified of the unfolding situation and asked to dispose of all their pork products by the Irish Hotels Federation. Some Tesco outlets initially only gave refunds for their own branded pork produce but have since begun issuing refunds to all affected Irish products. Superquinn however gave full refunds. A helpline set up by the Food Safety Authority of Ireland had received 3,000 calls within 72 hours of the outbreak.\n\nThe UK's Food Standards Agency has said it does not believe its country's consumers face \"significant risk\" but it is still awaiting confirmation from the Irish authorities that the affected products had not been exported to its neighbour. Chief Scientist Andrew Wadge stated on his FSA blog that because dioxins remain in the body for approximately 30 years, exceeding regulatory limits for a few days has an \"insignificant\" effect on the individual consumer. The Tolerable Daily Intake standard sets a level that is without appreciable risk to health over a prolonged period.\n\nIn Asia, South Korea has banned imports and advised retailers to stop selling Irish produce, Singapore is following suit, whilst China has \"provisionally\" stopped importation. Japan has also said it may recall Irish pork products.\n\nWithin twelve hours of the pork recall announcement, the international press was carrying the story and within thirty-six hours there were over 1,700 newspaper articles on the crisis globally. Tabloid \"The Sun\" announced the story as \"Toxic Irish pork is swept off shelves\" whilst the \"Daily Mirror\" opted for \"Poison pork panic: Irish pigs were fed on plastic bags\". \"Daily Express\" ran the story under the banner headline \"Shoppers told: Don't eat toxic Irish pork\" and the \"Daily Mail\" went with the headline \"British shoppers 'may not be able to tell whether they have Irish poison pork in their fridge'\". \"The Times\" had the headline \"Shops rush to take Irish pork off shelves\", warning that EU labelling laws meant pork originating in Ireland could have been labelled as British. \"Le Monde\" had the top-five most e-mailed website headline \"Dioxin alert in Irish pork\" and \"The Straits Times\" website had the crisis as its second most popular story. \"El País\" reported its concern that contaminated meat might have arrived in Spain via France and Portugal. \"The New York Times\", under the headline \"Ireland investigating tainted pork\" and \"The Washington Post\", under the headline \"Ireland recalls pork products after dioxin test\", covered the story in their own short ways. AFP had the headline \"Ireland scrambles to contain pork cancer scare\" and the Xinhua News Agency was one of the earliest news agencies to follow the story with headlines including \"Irish police to investigate pork contamination\". CNN tagged the story as \"another red flag being waved over dinner tables this week with warnings from the Irish government not to eat its pork products\", comparing the crisis to bovine spongiform encephalopathy, bird flu and the 2008 Chinese milk scandal.\n\nSuperquinn has said it will have Irish pork, traceable to one farm in County Kilkenny on shelves by 11 December, becoming the first Irish supermarket chain to do so. However, as early as 7pm on 10 December Irish retailer Dunnes had approved Galtee ham back on shelves for sale.\n\nTwenty one cattle farms in the Republic were discovered to have used the contaminated pig feed, whilst eight cattle farms used it in Northern Ireland. It was disclosed on 18 December 2008 that beef samples from the affected farms had dioxin levels between 100 and 400 times above the legal limit. The Irish authorities went to great lengths to insist that the threat to public health from Irish beef products, despite the extremely high dioxin levels, was insignificant. It was noted that the official announcement made no reference to the dioxin levels being 100 to 400 times the legal limit. In a statement the FSAI recommended \"that cattle which are locked down from these 21 farms should now be slaughtered and not allowed enter the food chain\". There is to be no public recall of Irish beef. The European Commission is being kept informed.\n\nHowever, 3,000 animals from these herds have been slaughtered and have already entered the food chain since September. The UK's Food Standards Agency is conducting tests to assess the level of dioxins present in Northern Irish cattle herds.\n\nOne farm in Northern Ireland has been identified as having fed contaminated animal feed to dairy cattle. Northern Ireland's Minister of Health, Social Services and Public Safety, Michael McGimpsey has announced restrictions on milk supplies in the province.\n\nIn its statement issued on 10 December 2008, The European Food Safety Authority (EFSA) considered that the levels of dioxin & dioxin like PCBs in Irish pork, before the contaminated pork was withdrawn, posed no risk to health. The EFSA calculated a number of different exposure scenarios, and they found that if a consumer ate Irish pork each day over the 90-day period, 10% of which was contaminated, the \"increase in the body burden [would be] of no concern for this single event\". In the \"very extreme case\" of eating large amounts of 100% contaminated Irish pork every day over the 90-day period in question, the EFSA considered that \"this unlikely scenario would reduce protection, but not necessarily lead to adverse health effects\".\n\nHowever the EFSA warns that its calculations are \"Based on the very limited new data related to the current contamination incident of pork, which were made available to EFSA\" and concludes its statement with the \"EFSA based this statement on a limited data set\". It also makes clear that its calculations assumed that exposure at these high levels only began in September 2008. If it is found that the animal feed had been contaminated prior to September 2008 then it will have to re-evaluate its findings. The statement did not address the issue of contaminated beef.\n\nA criminal investigation commenced in December 2008 and on 6 March 2010 it was reported in the Irish Times that a criminal prosecution will be taken in relation to the incident.\n\nMillstream Recycling Ltd. has taken a civil case against Gerard Tierney of Blackrock, and against his company Newtown Lodge Ltd. Millstream claims its pig feed products were contaminated by \"defective\" oil supplied by Mr. Tierney and his company.\n\nSee also Polychlorinated dibenzodioxins\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46762632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46762632", "title": "Alessia Gazzola", "text": "Alessia Gazzola\n\nAlessia Gazzola (born 1982, Messina) is an Italian novelist.\n\nGazzola is a medical examiner and she published her first novel, \"L'allieva\", in 2011. Her novels mix crime fiction and chick lit, the central character being \"Alice Allevi\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6819854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6819854", "title": "Angak", "text": "Angak\n\nAngak is a Hopi kachina spirit, represented by spirit dancers and a corresponding kachina doll figure, known to non-hopis as \"Longhair\".\n\nAngak represents a healing and protective male figure.\n\nThe dance of this figure is slow.\n\nThe figure will have waist length black hair and a black beard to mid chest, and when represented as a carving will usually be taller than other kachinas by the same artist. The figure wears a full length white cape, showing only his right hand, which contains an evergreen bough, representative of his home in the sacred San Francisco Peaks. On the cape are symbols for rainclouds.\n\nThe forward part of the headdress over the brow consists of yellow feathers, while the rear part contains a long pendant of feathers terminating in a raincloud symbol. (Feathers in the doll are carved.)\n"}
{"id": "4697289", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4697289", "title": "Benzene in soft drinks", "text": "Benzene in soft drinks\n\nBenzene in soft drinks is of potential concern due to the carcinogenic nature of the benzene molecule. This contamination is a public health concern and has caused significant outcry among environmental and health advocates. Benzene levels are regulated in drinking water nationally and internationally, and in bottled water in the United States, but only informally in soft drinks. The benzene forms from decarboxylation of the preservative benzoic acid in the presence of ascorbic acid (vitamin C) and metal ions (iron and copper) that act as catalysts, especially under heat and light.\n\nThe major cause of benzene in soft drinks is the decarboxylation of benzoic acid in the presence of ascorbic acid (vitamin C, E300) or erythorbic acid (a diastereomer of ascorbic acid, E315). Benzoic acid is often added to drinks as a preservative in the form of its salts sodium benzoate (E211), potassium benzoate (E 212), or calcium benzoate (E 213). Citric acid is not thought to induce significant benzene production in combination with benzoic acid, but some evidence suggests that in the presence of ascorbic or erythorbic acid and benzoic acid, citric acid may accelerate the production of benzene.\n\nThe proposed mechanism begins with hydrogen abstraction by the hydroxyl radical, which itself is produced by the Cu-catalysed reduction of dioxygen by ascorbic acid:\n\nOther factors that affect the formation of benzene are heat and light. Storing soft drinks in warm conditions speeds up the formation of benzene.\n\nCalcium disodium EDTA and sugars have been shown to inhibit benzene production in soft drinks.\n\nThe International Council of Beverages Associations (ICBA) has produced advice to prevent or minimize benzene formation.\n\nVarious authorities have set limits on benzene content in drinking water. The following limits are given in parts per billion (ppb; μg/kg).\n\n\nThe EPA and California have set public health goals for benzene of 0 ppb and 0.15 ppb.\n\nBenzene in soft drinks has to be seen in the context of other environmental exposure. Taking the worst example found to date of a soft drink containing 87.9 ppb benzene, someone drinking a 350 ml (12 oz) can would ingest 31 μg (micrograms) of benzene, almost equivalent to the benzene inhaled by a motorist refilling a fuel tank for three minutes. While there are alternatives to using sodium benzoate as a preservative, the casual consumption of such a drink is unlikely to pose a significant health hazard to a particular individual (see, for example, the EPA IRIS document on benzene).\n\nThe UK Food Standards Agency has stated that people would need to drink at least 20 litres (5.5 gal) per day of a drink containing benzene at 10 μg to equal the amount of benzene they would breathe from city air every day. Daily personal exposure to benzene is determined by adding exposure from all sources.\n\n\nIn 1990, a study reported having found benzene in bottles of Perrier for sale in the United States, resulting in a voluntary product recall.\n\nIn the early 1990s, the soft drink industry initially approached FDA with concerns about benzene formation in soft drinks. Following testing, FDA asked manufacturers to voluntarily reformulate. By 1993, FDA determined that most drinks had little benzene contamination.\n\nIn 1993, research showed how benzene can form from benzoic acid in the presence of vitamin C.\n\nIn the summer of 1998, a number of well known soft drinks manufacturers had to withdraw large quantities of their products from sale after benzene contamination in some production plants was discovered.\n\nIn November 2005, the FDA received test results conducted by private citizens that benzene was forming at low levels in several types of beverages.\n\nIn December 2005, Germany's Federal Institute for Risk Assessment (\"Bundesinstitut für Risikobewertung\") published a review of benzene's possible formation in foods and drinks.\n\nIn February 2006, an unnamed former chemist at the FDA publicly revealed that benzene may be created as part of a chemical reaction during production of soft drinks, particularly those having an orange flavor. Full-scale investigations immediately started at the Food Standards Agency (UK) and in Germany to reveal exactly which amounts of benzene, if any, were present, with several other organizations awaiting their findings.\n\nThe United Kingdom's Food Standards Agency released results on March 31, 2006 for 150 beverages. Its results showed 43 beverages contained benzene, four of which contained levels above the World Health Organization drinking water standards (10 ppb). These four were withdrawn from sale.\n\nIn April 2006, the Korea Food & Drug Administration (KFDA) announced that it had detected benzene in 27 out of 30 (90%) vitamin-enriched drinks on sale in South Korea. It said the detected amount of benzene – ranging from 5.7 to 87.8 ppb – was not harmful to humans but advised manufacturers of beverages containing more than 10 ppb of benzene to voluntarily recall their products.\n\nThe FDA released preliminary results in May 2006 for 100 beverages showing that many soft drinks contained low levels of benzene (less than 5 ppb, the federal drinking water limit) while four drinks contained amounts above the standard. Two of these drinks contained amounts 15-18 times above the drinking water standard. Many of the products showed large variations in the amount of benzene they contained. The FDA stated that it is working with manufacturers to reformulate products that contain benzene above the federal drinking water standard.\n\nThese test results are both lower and more accurate than a previous long-term study by the FDA. In the Total Diet Study that FDA conducted from 1996 - 2001 to determine the amounts of volatile organic compounds in various foods, FDA used an analytical procedure that caused more benzene to form in the drinks during the test.\n\nThe FDA emphasized that most beverages contain levels below 5 ppb and pose no risk to consumers. Furthermore, there are no standards for beverages beyond drinking and bottled water. A watchdog organization, the Environmental Working Group, had previously called on the FDA to release its results. The EWG also criticized the FDA for not acting on the Total Diet Study results showing the nearly 80% of the diet soft drinks exceeded the federal drinking water standards.\n\nOn 9 June 2006, Health Canada released its study results of benzene levels in beverages. Four products out of 118 had levels above the Canadian guideline of five micrograms per liter for benzene in drinking water (average range 6.0 to 23.0 µg/L). The follow up study the next year found only three samples with marginally higher levels and concluded the average levels were quite low.\n\nOn 24 August 2006, two soft drink manufacturers agreed to settle a class-action lawsuit that had been filed by a group of parents in the Superior Court of the District of Columbia. The two companies, Zone Brands Inc., maker of \"BellyWashers\" products, and TalkingRain Beverage Co., denied that their products were harmful, but agreed to change the ingredients in their drinks.\n\nCoca-Cola announced that it would be phasing out sodium benzoate from many of its drinks, but not Fanta and Sprite. As of August 2012, Coca Cola Zero and Barq's root beer still contains benzoate (added as potassium salt and sodium salt respectively).\n\nA Belgian study found that plastic packaging may play an important role in the formation of benzene in soft drinks.\n\n"}
{"id": "54734577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54734577", "title": "Byrdine F. Lewis College of Nursing and Health Professions", "text": "Byrdine F. Lewis College of Nursing and Health Professions\n\nThe Byrdine F. Lewis College of Nursing and Health Professions contains the nursing school and school of allied health professions at Georgia State University.\n\nThe school is named after Byrdine F. Lewis, the mother of Kenneth Lewis, a former CEO of Bank of America and an alumnus of Georgia State. Ken's mother was a nurse, and he donated $2.5 million as an endowment in her honor. The school was originally part of the College of Health and Human Sciences, but was restructured to its current configuration. The School of Nursing's offices are located in the Urban Life Building, along with the College of Law. On August 1st, 2017, the institute was renamed from Byrdine F. Lewis School of Nursing and Health Professions to Byrdine F. Lewis College of Nursing and Health Professions\n\n\nThe School of Nursing within the college offers degrees in nursing leading to eligibility to become a registered nurse or an advanced practice registered nurse.\n\n\n\nThe school offers degrees in clinical nutrition leading to eligibility to become a registered dietitian\n\n\n\nThe school offers the Doctor of physical therapy degree.\n\nThe school offers degrees in respiratory therapy leading to eligibility to become a Certified Respiratory Therapist or Registered Respiratory Therapist\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41178578", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41178578", "title": "CIWEC Clinic Travel Medicine Center", "text": "CIWEC Clinic Travel Medicine Center\n\nCIWEC Clinic Travel Medicine Center , also known as CIWEC Hospital, is a specialist in travel related illnesses and has been serving nationals, travelers and the expatriate community since 1982. It is the first travel medicine center situated in Asia. CIWEC is well known in the expatriate community to provide excellent medical care. Nepal.\n"}
{"id": "58702348", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58702348", "title": "Cannabis in Burundi", "text": "Cannabis in Burundi\n\nCannabis in Burundi is illegal.\n\nA 1977 United States Congressional report noted that cannabis in Burundi was illegal, with cultivation, transport, or possession punishable by fines of 100-100,000 francs, though rarely enforced. It noted too that cannabis was sometimes called \"chanvre a fumer\" in regional French by older and poorer elements of the population.\n"}
{"id": "16960579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16960579", "title": "Comcare", "text": "Comcare\n\nComcare is a statutory authority of the Australian Federal Government established under the \"Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Act\" 1988 (SRC Act) and covered by the \"Commonwealth Authorities and Companies Act\" 1997 (CAC Act). Comcare administers the Commonwealth's workers' compensation scheme under the SRC Act; and the \"Work Health and Safety Act\" 2011 (OHS Act).\n\nThe department is headquartered in Canberra, and has offices in Melbourne, Sydney, Brisbane, Adelaide, Perth and Newcastle.\n\nComcare also provides secretariat, policy and legislative support to Seacare - the Seafarers' Safety, Rehabilitation and Compensation Authority - in administering the \"Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Act\" 1992, the \"Occupational Health and Safety (Maritime Industry) Act\" 1993, the \"Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Levy Act\" 1992, and the \"Seafarers Rehabilitation and Compensation Levy Collection Act\" 1992.\n\nComcare provides advice to the Minister for Education, Employment and Workplace Relations on issues relating to the administration of the Commonwealth's occupational health and safety and workers' compensation frameworks.\n\nComcare has identified three key result areas achieving safe and healthy workplaces, early and safe return to work and accessible and affordable compensation.\n\n"}
{"id": "31270532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31270532", "title": "Conjugal love", "text": "Conjugal love\n\nConjugal love refers to love in a conjugal relationship, that is, in a marriage, since the word \"conjugal\" is defined as related to the relationship between married partners.\n\nMarriage does not necessarily involve love between the partners. Christian views on marriage involve love as being central to the marriage relationship, just as Christianity views love as central to human life and human relationship to God (as illustration, the statement from the New Testament that \"...God is love.\"). The Christian expectation is that the physical act of making love in marriage will be integrated into a complete love between the two partners.\n\nThe Catholic Church, like the Orthodox Church, views marriage as a sacrament. The Catechism of the Catholic Church devotes a section to the topic of \"conjugal love\" (paragraphs 1643-1654). The first paragraph of that section states, \"Conjugal love involves a totality, in which all the elements of the person enter - appeal of the body and instinct, power of feeling and affectivity, aspiration of the spirit and of will. It aims at a deeply personal unity, a unity that, beyond union in one flesh, leads to forming one heart and soul; it demands indissolubility and faithfulness in definitive mutual giving; and it is open to fertility. In a word it is a question of the normal characteristics of all natural conjugal love, but with a new significance which not only purifies and strengthens them, but raises them to the extent of making them the expression of specifically Christian values.\"\n\nIn the Old Testament book \"The Song of Songs\", a physical love affair between a man and a woman is described; Christians have generally taken this book as showing a picture of the love from God to people, and their responding love for God. This interpretation implies there is a strong connection between physical love in a marriage and the love between God and human beings.\n\n"}
{"id": "39951036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39951036", "title": "Corn cyst nematode", "text": "Corn cyst nematode\n\nThe corn cyst nematode (CCN) \"Heterodera zeae\" is a plant parasitic nematode that feeds on corn \"Zea mays\". The CCN has a limited economic impact worldwide due to its high soil temperature requirements.\n\nCCN was first described from a population in India in 1970. It was later reported in Egypt and Pakistan. In India the CCN is considered to be one of the four economically important cyst nematodes. The first report of the species in the Western hemisphere came in 1981 from four colonies in Maryland, Harford, Cecil, Kent, and Queen Anne’s counties. These four counties were placed under quarantine. The nematode was later identified from Cumberland Co., VA, over 170 miles from the nearest known infested field in Maryland. In Virginia the nematode was restricted to a 3 by 2.5 mile strip of land along the Appomattox River.\n\nThe cysts of CCN are light brown in color and lemon shaped. The cysts also have a zig-zag pattern on the cyst wall with four prominent finger-like bullae below the underbridge. The juveniles have an average stylet length of 20 μm and have a thin finely pointed tail. Females have a vulva slit of approximately 33 μm.\n\nThe CCN has been found in India, Pakistan, Egypt, and the United States. In India and Egypt it is considered to be of economic importance. In the United States it is not considered to be of economic importance due to its limited distribution and high soil temperature requirements for reproduction. Surveys have found the nematode in four Maryland counties and one county in Virginia. However, extensive surveys from 2004 to 2011 failed to identify \"H. zeae\" from New Jersey, Florida, Wisconsin, Minnesota, South Dakota, North Dakota, and Idaho.\n\nThe life cycle of the CCN is similar to other cyst nematodes in the genus \"Heterodera\". Individuals begin as eggs contained within a cyst, the hardened body of a dead female. Juveniles complete the molt from first stage to second stage within the egg, and it is the second stage juvenile or J2, which hatches from the egg. The J2 will seek out the roots of a suitable host plant and penetrate the root in search of a feeding site. The J2 will establish a permanent feeding site known as a syncytium and progress to adulthood. Males have not been described, but are assumed to exist. Female development is highly temperature dependent with development being minimal at 75 °F and steadily increasing in rate from 80 °F to 97 °F. The optimal developmental temperature is ≥ 97 °F, which is considered high for cyst nematodes. In the greenhouse females will produce around 150 eggs when developing on corn. Upon completion of their life adult females will darken in color and become hardened forming protective cysts, which contain their eggs.\n\nThe CCN is known to be capable of parasitizing and reproducing on 42 different members of the Poaceae family of plants. These include the economically important crops of oat, barley, rice, sorghum, and wheat. Corn is the preferred host with reproduction on corn far exceeding the other crops.\n\nThe CCN is a sedentary endoparasitic nematode, establishing feeding sites in the roots of host plants near the vascular tissue. Like other cyst nematodes, CCN feeds from a specialized feeding site known as a syncytium. This feeding site is formed by the deterioration of cell walls of adjoining plant cells in response to elicitors delivered through the nematode’s stylet. This cell wall deterioration leads to the formation of a single multi-nucleated feeding cell. Through the diversion of nutrients to the syncytium, CCN can stunt corn plant growth and reduce yield.\n\nThe CCN is currently not considered an economically important pest of corn in the United States. If CCN reaches damaging levels crop rotation to non-host crops would be a viable management option as the CCN’s host range is limited to grasses and its non-hosts include soybean, alfalfa, and cotton. Host plant resistant corn lines have been found and could be used to develop resistant hybrids if needed.\n"}
{"id": "30628909", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30628909", "title": "Cyst of Montgomery", "text": "Cyst of Montgomery\n\nA cyst of Montgomery is a benign breast mass, usually found in adolescent girls. Typically, it resolves spontaneously by itself.\n\nA cyst of Montgomery may be asymptomatic. Yet, a cyst of Montgomery usually is diagnosed when a female patient, 10–20 years of age, complains to a healthcare professional of breast pain (mastalgia), inflammation or a palpable nodule in the breast. The diagnosis is made clinically, when a palpable nodule is felt in the retroareolar area.\n\nThe periareolar glands of Montgomery in the breast are also called Montgomery tubercles or Morgagni tubercles. These periareolar glands are small, papular tissue projections at the edge of the areola (nipple).Obstruction of the Montgomery tubercles may result in an acute inflammation, a clear or light brownish fluid may drain out of the areola (nipple discharge), and an subareolar mass may develop, the cyst of Montgomery.\n\nThe diagnosis can be confirmed with ultrasonography, frequently showing a simple cyst in the retroareolar area. In some patients, multiple cysts or bilateral cysts may exist. Cysts of Montgomery may have liquid content with an echogenic or calcific sediment.\n\nThe clinical management of a cyst of Montgomery depends upon the symptoms of the patient.\n\nIf there are no signs of infection, a cyst of Montgomery can be observed, because more than 80% resolve spontaneously, over only a few months. However, in some cases, spontaneous resolution may take up two years. In such cases, a repeat ultrasonography may become necessary. If, however, the patient has signs of an infection, for example reddening (erythema), warmth, pain and tenderness, a treatment for mastitis can be initiated, which may include antibiotics and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). With treatment, inflammatory changes usually disappear quickly. In rare cases, drainage may become necessary. A surgical treatment of a cyst of Montgomery, i.e. a resection, may become necessary only if a cyst of Montgomery persists, or the diagnosis is questioned clinically.\n\nThe prognosis seems to be excellent. In one series, all adolescent patients with a cyst of Montgomery had a favourable outcome.\n\nCyst of Montgomery is also called retroareolar cyst.\n"}
{"id": "805921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=805921", "title": "Erotic sexual denial", "text": "Erotic sexual denial\n\nErotic sexual denial, also known as orgasm denial, is a sexual practice or sex play in which a person is kept in a heightened state of sexual arousal for an extended length of time without orgasm, and is commonly practiced in association with BDSM and sexual bondage. Erotic sexual denial can be another name for or variant of orgasm control.\n\nOne form of erotic sexual denial is the reduction or deprivation of all genital stimulation. To ensure a complete absence of genital stimulation, a chastity device may be used as a physical barrier to genital touch or full erection.\n\nTo be able to control an orgasm of a partner in such sex games, physical restraints are commonly used. Situations involving bondage are typically called \"tie and tease\" and can be thought of as extended tease and denial games. This practice is often an integral part of erotic denial. It is notable that in discussions between BDSM partners, negotiation usually focuses on the activities which may or may not be agreed to, rather than the emotions generated by said activities (unless at an unacceptable level). Tie and tease activities are physically as well as psychologically intense, because the strong feelings of sexual frustration are escalated by the sensation of helplessness induced by bondage.\n\nTease and denial is a situation where a person is stimulated until they are close to orgasm, then stimulation is stopped, keeping the person on the brink of orgasm. It is sometimes referred to as \"edging\", or \"edge play\". This is similar to orgasm control, but without the promise of orgasm at the end.\n\nIf orgasm still occurs after removal of stimulation, it typically brings less pleasure than usual, and is considered a \"ruined orgasm\", as opposed to being a \"denied orgasm\" (sometimes known in men as \"blue balls\"). Alternatively (for men), the release of semen during the emission phase of ejaculation might be prevented by some sort of constriction (\"blocked orgasm\"). Depending on the relationship, subjects might be repeatedly teased to the point of orgasm several times, but without actual orgasm, causing feelings of intense arousal and psychological need.\n\nThe practice of total sexual denial usually includes total avoidance of genital stimulation to the penis or vulva. This often involves the use of a physical barrier or device such as a chastity belt. Chastity belts or similar locking devices are available for both men and women. Depending on the situation, sexual arousal may still be possible regardless of physical barriers to genital stimulation. This, however, depends on the belt used.\n\nA strap-on dildo may be worn by a male to still allow penetrative vaginal sex to the female while denying the male partner the ability to orgasm, and the male then may also wear a chastity belt. This is distinct from pegging, as the strap-on in this case replaces the penis of the male. This can be seen as a form of total denial if the strap-on replaces the penis throughout the whole duration of the play, or as a form of teasing if the strap-on is only used during foreplay. In the last case, the strap-on can be used to prolong penetrative sex and thus sexually satisfy the female partner in case the male suffers from premature ejaculation.\n\nErotic sexual denial, in various forms, is sometimes associated with creating a state of sexual need leading to a more pliable or agreeable outlook by the denied party.\n\nOrgasm denial practices can allow dominant lovers to exercise control and training over highly intimate and psychologically significant aspects of their submissive lovers' lives. This can extend to tolerance of increased stimulation and training both to hold back orgasm, or to orgasm on command. Dominant lovers can use this practice to experience enjoyable and sometimes intensely craved feelings of sexual control and erotic power. Submissive lovers can use this practice to help them experience enjoyable and sometimes intensely craved feelings of erotic submission, sexualised objectification and erotic loss of control.\n\nOrgasm denial as a way of orgasm control is a widely practiced activity within erotic feminization. The dom will often deny the submissive (BDSM) sexual release to maintain their heightened state of sexual arousal, as a way to satisfy their desires for erotic humiliation, or as a way to satisfy the dominant's own desires to erotically humiliate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24559340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24559340", "title": "Erotosexual", "text": "Erotosexual\n"}
{"id": "17777901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17777901", "title": "European Community Urgent Radiological Information Exchange", "text": "European Community Urgent Radiological Information Exchange\n\nThe European Community Urgent Radiological Information Exchange (ECURIE) is the European early notification system in the event of a radiological or nuclear emergency.\n\nThe ECURIE system has two message types: an \"ECURIE Alert message\", which implies an emergency notification under Euratom and an \"ECURIE Information message\", which is a voluntary notification of smaller events and incidents. The possibility of sending ECURIE Information messages was introduced by the Commission in 2001. Since then, there have been more than 20 information messages.\n\nIn 1987, the European Council mandated an early notification and information exchange system that:\n\nrequires from the ECURIE Member States that they promptly notify the European Commission (EC) and all the Member States potentially affected when they intend to take counter-measures in order to protect their population against the effects of a radiological or nuclear accident. The EC will immediately forward this notification to all Member States. Following this first notification, all Member States are required to inform the Commission at appropriate intervals about the measures they take and the radioactivity levels they have measured.\nAll 28 EU Member States have signed the ECURIE agreement, as well as Switzerland and the Republic of Macedonia. Turkey and Iceland have also been invited.\n\nECURIE is operated by the DG ENER of the European Commission with the Joint Research Centre responsible for technical development.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "752675", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=752675", "title": "Eye chart", "text": "Eye chart\n\nAn eye chart is a chart used to measure visual acuity. Eye charts are often used by health care professionals, such as optometrists, physicians or nurses, to screen persons for vision impairment. Ophthalmologists, physicians who specialize in the eye, also use eye charts to monitor the visual acuity of their patients in response to various therapies such as medications or surgery.\n\nThe chart is placed at a standardized distance away from the person whose vision is being tested. The person then attempts to identify the symbols on the chart, starting with the larger symbols and continuing with progressively smaller symbols until the person cannot identify the symbols. The smallest symbols that can be reliably identified is considered the person's visual acuity.\n\nThe Snellen chart is the most widely used. Alternative types of eye charts include the logMAR chart, Landolt C, E chart, Lea test, Golovin–Sivtsev table, the Rosenbaum chart, and the Jaeger chart.\n\nCharts display several rows of optotypes, which are standardized symbols for testing vision. Optotypes are usually letters, numbers, or geometric symbols. Each row of the chart depicts optotypes of a different size. Typically the largest optotypes are in the top row. The optotypes become progressively smaller towards the bottom of the chart.\n\nThe person removes any glasses or contact lenses, and stands or sits a standardized distance from the chart (e.g., 20 feet for the Snellen chart). The person is then asked to identify the optotypes on the chart, starting with large rows and continuing to smaller rows until the optotypes cannot be reliably identified any more. The row in which the person can reliably identify symbols defines the visual acuity.\n\nOne eye is tested at a time. Practically, this is accomplished by covering the other eye with a hand, piece of paper, or a small paddle. After testing without glasses or contact lenses, testing is repeated while the person wears them, if applicable. Often, the use of such refractive lenses will correct visual acuity to normal. Refractive error can be corrected using a pinhole occluder. If the visual acuity improves with the use of pinholes, refractive lenses can be utilized to improve visual acuity. Squinting can achieve the same effect as a pinhole occluder.\n\nWith the Snellen chart, the visual acuity is recorded as a fraction with 20 in the numerator (top number) and values ranging from 10 to 600 in the denominator (bottom number). The denominator indicates the distance in feet at which a person with normal vision could stand to correctly identify the same symbols identified by the person tested. For example, a visual acuity of 20/20 is considered normal.\n\nNumerous types of eye charts exist and are used in various situations. For example, the Snellen chart is designed for use at 6 meters or 20 feet, and is thus appropriate for testing distance vision. There is often also a need to test a subject's vision at near or occupational tasks (such as reading or computer use). For these situations, a Rosenbaum chart or Jaeger chart can be used.\n\nWhile the Snellen chart remains the default, some authors have argued that the logMAR chart is superior. The logMAR chart presents the same number of symbols on each line, uses a font with letters that are equally legible at various sizes, and by varying the symbol size logarithmically, it is easier to use at nonstandard distances. As a consequence of these improvements, the logMAR chart has been proposed as a more reliable tool for measuring visual acuity. However, the logMAR chart has not yet been widely adopted.\n\nIt can be difficult to measure visual acuity in infants, young children, and illiterate adults. Special eye charts can be used. One version uses simple pictures or patters. Others are printed with the block letter \"E\" turned in different orientations, the so-called Tumbling E. The patient simply indicates which direction each \"E\" is facing. The Landolt C chart is similar: rows have circles with different segments missing, and the test-taker describes where each broken piece is located. The last two kinds of charts also reduce the possibility of the patient guessing the images.\nComputer-based semi-automatic alternatives to the eye chart have been developed, but are not very common. They have several potential advantages, such as a more precise measurement and less examiner-induced bias.\n\nIf the person, particularly a young child, is unable to cooperate with visual acuity testing via an eye chart, practitioners can be alerted to possible deficits in visual acuity by asking parents whether the child appears to see well. A clue is that the child may hold objects close to the face when attempting to focus. Refractive error can be estimated via photography, a technique called photoscreening.\n\nResearch has shown that optotype \"crowding\" reduces visual acuity at the fovea (as opposed to \"eccentric\" visual acuity) once the optotype characters are closer than 4.4 bar widths apart. This is referred to as the \"critical spacing\" for optotype letters at the fovea. For periphery visual acuity, the critical spacing is much greater, such that optotype characters closer than 15-20 bar widths apart negatively affect visual acuity.\n\n"}
{"id": "150023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=150023", "title": "Fairburn Ings RSPB reserve", "text": "Fairburn Ings RSPB reserve\n\nFairburn Ings Nature Reserve is a protected area in Yorkshire, England, which is noted for its avian biodiversity.\nThe reserve has recorded around 280 bird species, remarkable for an inland site in the United Kingdom. This is explained by the site being on migration routes as well as the diversity of habitats.\n\nIt was designated a Local Nature Reserve in 1957 under the National Parks and Access to the Countryside Act (1949). Since the 1970s it has been managed by the Royal Society for the Protection of Birds on behalf of the local naturalists who set it up. \n\nThe reserve is situated in the Lower Aire Valley, to the south and west of Fairburn, near Castleford. It includes the whole of Fairburn & Newton Ings SSSI. It is also a Statutory Bird Sanctuary (one of only 10 in England) with a focus mainly on wildfowl and waders, although many other birds can be seen. \n\nThe word \"ings\" (singular \"ing\") is of Old Norse origin and means \"damp or marshy land that floods\", a reference to the area being flooded regularly by the River Aire.\nLying alongside the River Aire, the nature reserve includes a large lake and a number of smaller lakes, ponds and dikes. The area has been the scene of industrial and mining operations for 150 years, and, although the valley floods naturally, the permanent water bodies are the result of subsidence of former coal-mine workings, up to underground, providing habitats for wildfowl and many other birds.\n\nThe site is bordered by predominantly arable farmland to the north and east, and urban environments to the south and west. \nOne third of the site has been developed from 26 million cubic metres of colliery spoil which have been landscaped to create a large complex of herb rich grassland, wetlands and woodland.\n\nHabitats at Fairburn Ings include flood meadows, wet fenland, marsh and reed bed, woodland and scrub. \nListed in terms of the United Kingdom Biodiversity Action Plan, the reserve contains: \n\nBirds of conservation concern of these habitats include: the black-necked grebe (\"Podiceps nigrocollis\"), garganey (\"Anas querquedula\"), redshank (\"Tringa totanus\"), whooper swan (\"Cygnus cygnus\") and golden plover (\"Pluvialis apricalia\").\n\nThere is a visitor centre and five hides. Entrance to the reserve is free but there is a charge for car parking.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26221150", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26221150", "title": "Ferret health", "text": "Ferret health\n\nThe domestic ferret is known to be affected by several distinct ferret health problems. Among the most common are cancers affecting the adrenal glands, pancreas, and lymphatic system. Viral diseases include canine distemper and influenza. Certain health problems have also been linked to ferrets being neutered before sexual maturity was reached. Certain colors of ferret may also carry a genetic defect known as Waardenburg syndrome. Similar to domestic cats, ferrets may also be affected by hairballs, or dental problems.\n\nAdrenal disease, a growth of the adrenal glands that can be either hyperplasia or cancer, is most often diagnosed by signs like unusual hair loss, increased aggression, constant grooming of owner or other ferrets as well as themselves, difficulty urinating (caused by an enlarged prostate) or defecating, or agitation when urinating, and (in the case of females) an enlarged vulva. Signs of an enlarged prostate should be considered an emergency; even if the growth is benign, it can still cause a hormonal imbalance which can have devastating effects on the ferret's health.\n\nTreatment options include surgery or cryosurgery to excise the affected glands, melatonin or deslorelin implants, which treat the symptoms but not the disease itself, and/or hormone therapy. The causes of adrenal disease are as yet uncertain, but speculated triggers include unnatural light cycles, diets based around processed ferret foods, and prepubescent neutering. It has also been suggested that there may be a hereditary component to adrenal disease.\n\nAdrenal disease is usually detected during the spring or fall, as it affects the hormones that make the fur grow. When affected ferrets shed their winter coat, the fur does not grow back. The hair loss pattern is usually very specific for adrenal disease. It begins at the base of the tail and then continues up the back. Ferrets treated for adrenal disease may temporarily have severe hair loss as their bodies recover from the disease.\n\nInsulinoma, a type of cancer of the islet cells of the pancreas, is the most common form of cancer in ferrets. It is most common in ferrets between the ages of 4 and 5 years but may also occur in younger ferrets. The growth of cancerous nodules on the lobes of the pancreas sometimes, but not always, leads to an increase in the production of insulin, which regulates the rate at which the ferret's body metabolizes blood glucose. Too much insulin causes blood sugar to drop, resulting in lethargy, seizures, and ultimately death. Symptoms of an insulinoma attack include episodes of lethargy, drooling, pawing or foaming at the mouth, high pitched screams, staring \"blankly\" into space, and seizures.\n\nThe exact cause of insulinoma is unknown. It is speculated that the diets of domestic ferrets are too far removed from the natural diets of their polecat ancestors, and include too much sugar or simple carbohydrates.\n\nTreatment for insulinoma may include surgical excision of the cancerous lobes, pharmaceutical treatment with steroids that suppress the production of insulin, supplemental changes in diet (most often poultry-based baby food), or a combination thereof. Unfortunately, the growth of the tumors cannot always be completely stopped, and the ferret will sometimes have a recurrence of symptoms. In an insulinoma attack, a temporary remedy to stabilize the ferret is any kind of a sugary syrup, such as corn syrup or honey.\n\nLymphoma/lymphosarcoma is the most common malignancy in ferrets. Ferret lymphosarcoma occurs in two forms -- \"juvenile lymphosarcoma\", a fast-growing type that affects ferrets younger than two years, and \"adult lymphosarcoma\", a slower-growing form that affects ferrets four to seven years old.\n\nIn juvenile ferret lymphosarcoma, large, immature lymphocytes (lymphoblasts) rapidly invade the thymus or the organs of the abdominal cavity, particularly the liver and spleen. In adult ferret lymphosarcoma, the lymph nodes in the limbs and abdominal cavity become swollen early on due to invasion by small, mature lymphocytes. Invasion of organs, such as the liver, kidney, lungs, and spleen, occurs later on, and the disease may be far advanced before symptoms are noticeable.\n\nAs in humans, ferret lymphosarcoma can be treated surgically, with radiation therapy, chemotherapy or a combination thereof. The long-term prognosis is rarely bright, however, and this treatment is intended to improve quality of life with the disease.\nEpizootic catarrhal enteritis (ECE) is a viral disease that first appeared in the northeastern US in 1994, is an inflammation of the mucous membranes in the intestine. The condition manifests itself as severe diarrhea (often of a bright green color), loss of appetite, and severe weight loss. The virus can be passed via fluids and indirectly between humans. Although it was often fatal when first discovered, ECE is less of a threat today.\n\nThe coronavirus which causes ECE has a counterpart strain that has more systemic effects with a higher mortality rate. This systemic syndrome has been compared to Feline infectious peritonitis in cats.\n\nAleutian disease virus (ADV) is a parvovirus discovered among mink in the Aleutian Islands in the early 20th century. In ferrets, the virus affects the immune system (causing it to produce non-neutralizing antibodies) and many internal organs, particularly the kidneys. There is no cure or vaccine for the disease, and ferrets may carry the virus for months or years without any signs.\n\nCanine distemper (CD) is an extremely contagious virus that is considered always fatal. Being strict indoor pets does not necessarily protect ferrets, as owners may bring the virus home on their clothes or their shoes. The distemper virus is very short-lived in hot, dry weather, but may persist on hands or surfaces for much longer in cool, damp weather. The only protection against the virus is vaccination, but that is not without controversy as there have been reports, particularly from the US, of ferrets going into anaphylactic shock after being vaccinated against CD. There is some anecdotal evidence that occurrence of a vaccine reaction is related to a low blood sugar level, and that feeding the ferret a sweet paste-type nutritional supplement shortly before the vaccination to raise the blood glucose has reduced the incidence of reactions.\n\nA ferret with partial immunity to distemper can be exposed to canine distemper and go through an incubation period of up to six weeks before showing signs of infection, as compared to a few days in an unvaccinated animal. Signs can include runny nose, discharge from the eyes, fever, up to , and severe malaise, followed by development of changes in the skin including discoloration and thickening of the nose (a pink nose will develop an orange coloration), measles-like sores on the chin and belly, and thick crusting of the pads of the feet (hyperkeratosis). The discharge is highly contagious to other unvaccinated ferrets and canines. If the ferret survives the initial acute phase of the disease, they will die within a few weeks from a progressive and incurable neurological infection, progressing to severe epileptic seizures and death.\n\nInfluenza, essentially the same disease and same agent that occur in humans, is caused by an othomyxovirus that can be passed from ferrets to humans and from humans to ferrets. Ferrets have served as experimental animal models in the study of influenza virus. Smith, Andrews, Laidlaw (1933) inoculated ferrets intra-nasally with human naso-pharyngeal washes, which produced a form of influenza that spread to other cage mates. The human influenza virus (Influenza type A) was transmitted from an infected ferret to a junior investigator, from whom it was subsequently re-isolated. The virus usually affects the nasal epithelium but can cause pneumonia. Signs include anorexia, fever, sneezing, nasal and ocular discharges and usually spontaneous recovery in 4 days or less. Antibiotic use can prevent complicating secondary bacterial infections .\n\nA common ailment which can be fatal in ferrets is foot rot, a form of fungal infection which attacks the feet and sometimes spreads to the tail. It initially appears as a small, yellow, scab-like infection. If untreated, it can cover the feet, and later the entire body. Foot rot is normally caused by poor cage hygiene, i.e., excessive feces accumulation.\n\nLike many other carnivores, ferrets have scent glands near their anuses, the secretions from which are used in scent marking. Ferrets recognize other individuals from these anal gland secretions, as well as the sex of unfamiliar individuals. Ferrets may also use urine marking for sex and individual recognitions.\n\nMales, if not neutered, are extremely musky. It is considered preferable to delay neutering until sexual maturity has been reached, at approximately six to eight months old, after the full descent of the testicles. Neutering the male will reduce the smell to almost nothing. The same applies for females, but spaying them is also important for their own health. Unless they are going to be used for breeding purposes, female ferrets will go into extended heat. A female that does not mate can die of aplastic anemia without medical intervention. It is possible to use a vasectomised male to take a female out of heat.\n\nDue to speculation on the possible effects of the photoperiod effect on the ferret's adrenal gland, some owners prefer to house their pets outdoors in sheds, and not indoors.\n\nMale ferrets may be chemically castrated using a deslorelin implant, which lasts for at least a year. Males with a deslorelin implant are less aggressive to other males compared to males castrated surgically.\n\nA high proportion of ferrets with white markings which form coat patterns known as a blaze, badger, or panda coat, such as a stripe extending from their face down the back of their head to their shoulder blades, or a fully white head, have a congenital deafness (partial or total) which is similar to Waardenburg syndrome in humans. Ferrets without white markings, but with premature graying of the coat, are also more likely to have some deafness than ferrets with solid coat colors which do not show this trait. Most albino ferrets are not deaf; if deafness does occur in an albino ferret, this may be due to an underlying white coat pattern which is obscured by the albinism.\n\nIn humans, Waardenburg syndrome leads to higher instances of reproductive disorders and a reduced life expectancy; these phenomena have been reported by some ferret owners, but , there is no scientific evidence correlating these findings with congenital sensorineural deafness. Except for albinism, the genetics of coat color in ferrets is not known, and the genes that cause deafness have not been identified.\n\nOwners may not easily identify deafness in their ferret; affected ferrets may have behavioral or training problems, or may have greater than usual social conflict with other ferrets. A ferret's hearing can be tested by a brainstem auditory evoked response test, with the ferret under general anesthesia.\n\nHairballs can occur in ferrets, but are not readily expelled by vomiting like the way cats deal with them. One or more hairballs in a ferret may lead to loss of appetite and subsequent weight loss. A hairball may enter the intestine and cause a life-threatening obstruction. Ferrets typically replace their coats twice a year, and at that time require brushing to remove loose hairs before they can be ingested, and possibly administration of a hairball remedy as a preventive. Artificial lighting or administration of certain medications may alter the normal spring and fall seasonal coat changes in the ferret.\n\nDental calculus (tartar) is a hard substance formed on the teeth from the mineralization of plaque. Dental tartar primarily comes from wet food which gets stuck to the teeth for extended periods of time. Tartar can be avoided by ferrets eating raw meat, bones and preferably whole prey. The biomechanics of consuming meat and bones will keep the teeth clean. Left to itself, tartar may lead to gingivitis which in turn can lead to a dental abscess, bone loss, infections which may spread bacteria through the bloodstream to internal organs and lead to death if not treated. Tartar can be removed either mechanical or by ultrasound at a veterinarian (this usually involves anesthesia), a small toothbrush can also be used as a preventive measure if one is unable to feed the animal with raw meat. Tartar can be prevented by feeding raw food or giving specially made gelatin treats for ferrets.\n\nDental abrasion or tooth wear is common in ferrets, and is caused by mechanical wear of the teeth. Eating manufactured dry food (kibble) will erode (due to the hard and extremely dry kibble) the carnassial teeth of the ferret , the wear from the eating kibble can become significant with old age (after three to five years). If teeth are overly ground down, a ferret cannot use them as scissors to eat raw meat. Tooth erosion eventually affects a ferret's ability to eat solid food. Dental abrasion can also be caused by excessive chewing on fabrics or toys, and cage biting. If the ferret engages in these activities a lot, it might be a sign of boredom, and more stimulating activities (such as play) should rectify the situation.\n\n"}
{"id": "4748913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4748913", "title": "Four Big Pollution Diseases of Japan", "text": "Four Big Pollution Diseases of Japan\n\nThe were a group of man-made diseases all caused by environmental pollution due to improper handling of industrial wastes by Japanese corporations. The first occurred in 1912, and the other three occurred in the 1950s and 1960s.\n\nDue to lawsuits, publicity, and other actions against the corporations responsible for the pollution, as well as the creation of the Environmental Agency in 1971, increased public awareness, and changes in industrial practices, the incidence of these kinds of diseases declined after the 1970s. These cases also set precedents for private tort law and civil law in issues of compensation for technology-related mass damage which continue to have repercussions in legal cases in Japan today.\n\nItai-itai disease first occurred in 1912 within Toyama Prefecture. This disease was given the name \"itai-itai\" because this was the phrase victims would frequently cry out; it translates into \"it-hurts it-hurts disease\".\n\nThe cause of itai-itai disease was determined to be cadmium poisoning in the drinking water from the Jinzū River basin. The source of cadmium was discovered to be from Mitsui Mining and Smelting Company. Mitsui Mining began to discharge cadmium into the Jinzū River in 1910. The cadmium poisoned the river, thus poisoning locals' source of water. Any person who drank that water or ate food that was grown with the contaminated water, such as rice, would be likely to show signs of itai-itai disease.\n\nThe first symptoms were spine and leg pain. However, as the disease progresses symptoms include:\n\nMost victims of itai-itai disease were confined to bed because walking caused severe pain. Residents of the surrounding area that were harmed by this disease filed a lawsuit against Mitsui Mining & Smelting Company in 1968. Residents won this lawsuit and began to conduct negotiations. Mitsui Mining formally admitted that itai-itai disease was caused by their discharge of cadmium into the Jinzū River. Mitsui Mining was also obliged to pay recovery costs for the land. This meant that they had to ensure the poisoned land was returned to a safe and cultivable state.\n\nThe first report of Minamata disease originated in Minamata in Kumamoto Prefecture in the year 1956. Many of the earliest patients became insane from the symptoms and in some cases died within a month of being afflicted. After an extensive investigation, the Minamata disease was identified as a heavy metal poisoning, specifically methylmercury poisoning, transmitted by the ingestion of contaminated fish from Minamata Bay. The methylmercury inside the contaminated fish attacked the afflicted patient’s central nervous system, which caused a variety of symptoms.\n\nMost patients exhibited combinations of symptoms and did not show all symptoms.\nNational-institute-for-minamata-disease says 182 taiji-residents have extremely-high-mercury-level but do not display any symptoms of mercury-poisoning.\n\nThe cause of this contamination in Minamata bay was then traced back to Chisso Corporation’s dumping of methylmercury into Minamata Bay. Chisso Corporation produced acetaldehyde using water, acetylene, mercury(II) sulfate as a catalyst and manganese dioxide or since August 1951, ferric sulfide as a co-catalyst. Acetaldehyde reacts with acetic anhydride in order to produce ethylidene diacetate, which is heated to produce vinyl acetate. Acetaldehyde was also used to produce acetic acid by oxidizing acetaldehyde and vinyl chloride, \nwhich is polymerized to make PVC; however, the use of ferric sulfide had a downside: methylmercury (or organic mercury) was a by-product in the making of these chemicals due to its use. The methylmercury was then dumped into Minamata Bay as chemical waste. Chisso decided not to stop the use of the mentioned catalysts or the dumping of their byproducts into the bay until 1966. Today, Chisso makes compensation payments to all certified (recognized) patients of Minamata disease. Over 50 hectares of the bay were reclaimed, using the contaminated sludge from the bottom of the bay with a non-contaminated layer of soil on top.\n\nIn 1970, the Japanese Water Pollution Control Act, which states that all factories are required by law to regulate disposal of dangerous chemicals, was enacted. In 1977, the Japanese government took on the task of cleaning Minamata Bay by vacuuming out 1.5 million cubic metres of methylmercury-contaminated sludge from the bottom of the bay and using them to reclaim over 50 hectares of the bay along with non-contaminated soil on top. Then in 1997, after fourteen years and $359 million, the Governor of Kumamoto Prefecture deemed Minamata Bay safe.\n\nIn 1965, a number of patients in Niigata Prefecture exhibited signs of Minamata disease. Niigata Minamata was caused by methylmercury poisoning in the Agano River basin. However, this second outbreak of Minamata disease was discovered early on. The degree of this outbreak was minimal compared to that of the first Minamata disease that took place in Kumamoto prefecture. Investigation of the cause of the disease was given to the Niigata University medical department. There were a number of factors that could be the cause of this outbreak. Along the Agano River basin there were several plants that used mercury in production, agricultural chemicals were widely used in the area, and the last possible cause of the outbreak was said to be the cause of an earthquake that took place a year before the disease was discovered in Niigata.\n\nAs the name implies, Niigata Minamata disease is similar to Minamata disease; they both share the similar symptoms:\n\nIn the spring of 1966, the research team determined the most likely cause to the dumping of methylmercury from Showa Denko Corporation factory. Showa Denko was located upstream on the Agano River and, just like the Chisso corporation, produced methylmercury as a by-product and then dumped it into the Agano river. Much like Chisso corporation, Showa Denko declined all charges that they were at fault for the Niigata Minamata outbreak.\n\nAfter much controversy, Showa Denko was found guilty of negligence and was then forced to pay compensation payments to all victims of Niigata Minamata disease. In the year that Niigata Minamata was discovered, 26 people were designated disease patients, and five died as a result of the methylmercury poisoning.\n\nYokkaichi is a city in the center of Japan in Mie Prefecture; known as the \"town of petroleum\" as it produces almost a quarter of the total petroleum in Japan. Construction of the first oil refinery in this area first began in 1955 and after construction many respiratory diseases emerged within the city and among neighboring districts.\n\nIn the middle of this city was the largest heavy oil-fired power station and refinery in Japan during this time period. Unfortunately, this refinery was not equipped with machines that could lower the sulfur dioxide emissions before releasing them into the air. In the early 1960s, respiratory diseases began to emerge in the general population of Yokkaichi and even in some neighboring districts. This increase in respiratory problems was then specified as Yokkaichi asthma. This form of asthma was prevalent within Yokkaichi — 5–10% of inhabitants aged 40 in Yokkaichi were reported to suffer from chronic bronchitis, whereas less than 3% suffered from the same disease in non-polluted areas.\n\nTo offer support for many of the victims of this disease, a public release system for air pollution was established in 1965. This set forth that all people in the Yokkaichi area who met the following criteria were paid by the program:\nToday, there are many laws regulating the amount of sulfur dioxide a factory can release into the air. These laws help keep the disaster of Yokkaichi Asthma from happening once again within Japan's borders.\n\n"}
{"id": "1469864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1469864", "title": "George Dimitrov", "text": "George Dimitrov\n\nGeorge Dimitrov is a psychologist and hypnotherapist from Bourgas, East Bulgaria.\n\nAfter obtaining his master's degree in psychology, Dimitrov applied and started working as a state psychologist in the Institute of Psychology - Ministry of Internal Affairs of the Republic of Bulgaria. After leaving there, he established his professional career in London, focused on hypnotherapy.\n\n\nDimitrov is a member of the UK General Hypnotherapy Register, the International Society of Hypnosis, and the British Psychological Society.\n"}
{"id": "185259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=185259", "title": "Germ theory of disease", "text": "Germ theory of disease\n\nThe germ theory of disease is the currently accepted scientific theory of disease. It states that many diseases are caused by microorganisms. These small organisms, too small to see without magnification, invade humans, animals, and other living hosts. Their growth and reproduction within their hosts can cause a disease. \"Germ\" may refer to not just a bacterium but to any type of microorganism, especially one which causes disease, such as protists, fungi, viruses, prions, or viroids. Microorganisms that cause disease are called pathogens, and the diseases they cause are called infectious diseases. Even when a pathogen is the principal cause of a disease, environmental and hereditary factors often influence the severity of the disease, and whether a potential host individual becomes infected when exposed to the pathogen.\n\nThe germ theory was proposed by Girolamo Fracastoro in 1546, and expanded upon by Marcus von Plenciz in 1762. Such views were held in disdain, however, and Galen's miasma theory remained dominant among scientists and doctors. The nature of this doctrine prevented them from understanding how diseases actually progressed, with predictable consequences. By the early nineteenth century, smallpox vaccination was commonplace in Europe, though doctors were unaware of how it worked or how to extend the principle to other diseases. Similar treatments had been prevalent in India from just before AD 1000. A transitional period began in the late 1850s with the work of Louis Pasteur. This work was later extended by Robert Koch in the 1880s. By the end of the 1880s the miasma theory was struggling to compete with the germ theory of disease. Eventually, a \"golden era\" of bacteriology ensued, during which the theory quickly led to the identification of the actual organisms that cause many diseases. Viruses were discovered in the 1890s.\n\nThe miasma theory was the predominant theory of disease transmission before the germ theory took hold towards the end of the 19th century. It held that diseases such as cholera, chlamydia infection, or the Black Death were caused by a \"miasma\" (μίασμα, Ancient Greek: \"pollution\"), a noxious form of \"bad air\" emanating from rotting organic matter. Miasma was considered to be a poisonous vapor or mist filled with particles from decomposed matter (miasmata) that was identifiable by its foul smell. The theory posited that diseases were the product of environmental factors such as contaminated water, foul air, and poor hygienic conditions. Such infections, according to the theory, were not passed between individuals but would affect those within a locale that gave rise to such vapors.\n\nIn Antiquity, the Greek historian Thucydides (c. 460 – c. 400 BC) was the first person to state, in his account of the plague of Athens, that diseases could spread from an infected person to others. One theory of the spread of contagious diseases that were not spread by direct contact was that they were spread by \"seeds\" (Latin: \"semina\") that were present in the air. In his poem, \"De rerum natura\" (On the Nature of Things, ca. 56 BC), the Roman poet Lucretius (ca. 99 BC – ca. 55 BC) stated that the world contained various \"seeds\", some of which could sicken a person if they were inhaled or if they contaminated his food. The Roman statesman Marcus Terentius Varro (116–27 BC) wrote, in his \"Rerum rusticarum libri III\" (Three Books on Agriculture, 36 BC): \"Precautions must also be taken in the neighborhood of swamps […] because there are bred certain minute creatures which cannot be seen by the eyes, which float in the air and enter the body through the mouth and nose and there cause serious diseases.\" The Greek physician Galen (AD 129 – ca. 200/ca. 216) speculated in his \"On Initial Causes\" (ca. AD 175) that some patients might have \"seeds of fever\". In his \"On the Different Types of Fever\" (ca. AD 175), Galen speculated that plagues were spread by \"certain seeds of plague\", which were present in the air. And in his \"Epidemics\" (ca. AD 176–178), Galen explained that patients might relapse during recovery from a fever because some \"seed of the disease\" lurked in their bodies, which would cause a recurrence of the disease if the patients didn't follow a physician's therapeutic regimen.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Isidore of Seville (ca. 560 – 636) mentioned \"plague-bearing seeds\" (\"pestifera semina\") in his \"On the Nature of Things\" (ca. AD 613). Later in 1345, Tommaso del Garbo (ca. 1305–1370) of Bologna, Italy mentioned Galen's \"seeds of plague\" in his work \"Commentaria non parum utilia in libros Galeni\" (Helpful commentaries on the books of Galen).\n\nThe Italian scholar and physician Girolamo Fracastoro proposed in 1546 in his book \"De Contagione et Contagiosis Morbis\" that epidemic diseases are caused by transferable seed-like entities (\"seminaria morbi\") that transmit infection by direct or indirect contact, or even without contact over long distances. The diseases were categorised based on how they were transmitted, and how long they could lie dormant.\n\nItalian physician Francesco Redi provided early evidence against spontaneous generation. He devised an experiment in 1668 in which he used three jars. He placed a meatloaf and egg in each of the three jars. He had one of the jars open, another one tightly sealed, and the last one covered with gauze. After a few days, he observed that the meatloaf in the open jar was covered by maggots, and the jar covered with gauze had maggots on the surface of the gauze. However, the tightly sealed jar had no maggots inside or outside it. He also noticed that the maggots were found only on surfaces that were accessible by flies. From this he concluded that spontaneous generation is not a plausible theory.\n\nMicroorganisms are said to have been first directly observed in the 1670s by Anton van Leeuwenhoek, an early pioneer in microbiology. Yet Athanasius Kircher may have done so prior. When Rome was struck by the bubonic plague in 1656, Kircher spent days on end caring for the sick. Searching for a cure, Kircher observed microorganisms under the microscope and invented the germ theory of disease, which he outlined in his \"Scrutinium pestis physico-medicum\" (Rome 1658). Building on Leeuwenhoek's work, physician Nicolas Andry argued in 1700 that microorganisms he called \"worms\" were responsible for smallpox and other diseases.\n\nIn 1720, Richard Bradley theorised that the plague and 'all pestilential distempers' were caused by 'poisonous insects', living creatures viewable only with the help of microscopes.\n\nIn 1762, the Austrian physician Marcus Antonius von Plenciz (1705-1786) published a book titled \"Opera medico-physica\". It outlined a theory of contagion stating that specific 'animalculae' in the soil and the air were responsible for causing specific diseases. Von Plenciz noted the distinction between diseases which are both epidemic and contagious (like measles and dysentry), and diseases which are contagious but not epidemic (like rabies and leprosy). The book cites Anton van Leeuwenhoek to show how ubiquitous such animalculae are, and was unique for describing the presence of germs in ulcerating wounds. Ultimately, the theory espoused by von Plenciz was not accepted by the scientific community.\n\nThe Italian Agostino Bassi was the first person to prove that a disease was caused by a microorganism when he conducted a series of experiments between 1808 and 1813, demonstrating that a \"vegetable parasite\" caused a disease in silkworms known as \"calcinaccio\"this disease was devastating the French silk industry at the time. The \"vegetable parasite\" is now known to be a fungus pathogenic to insects called \"Beauveria bassiana\" (named after Bassi).\n\nIgnaz Semmelweis, a Hungarian obstetrician working at the Vienna General Hospital (\"Allgemeines Krankenhaus\") in 1847, noticed the dramatically high maternal mortality from puerperal fever following births assisted by doctors and medical students. However, those attended by midwives were relatively safe. Investigating further, Semmelweis made the connection between puerperal fever and examinations of delivering women by doctors, and further realized that these physicians had usually come directly from autopsies. Asserting that puerperal fever was a contagious disease and that matter from autopsies were implicated in its development, Semmelweis made doctors wash their hands with chlorinated lime water before examining pregnant women. He then documented a sudden reduction in the mortality rate from 18% to 2.2% over a period of a year. Despite this evidence, he and his theories were rejected by most of the contemporary medical establishment.\n\nGideon Mantell, the Sussex doctor more famous for discovering dinosaur fossils, spent time with his microscope, and speculated in his \"Thoughts On Animalcules\" (1850) that perhaps \"many of the most serious maladies which afflict humanity, are produced by peculiar states of invisible animalcular life\".\n\nJohn Snow was a skeptic of the then-dominant miasma theory. Even though the germ theory of disease pioneered by Girolamo Fracastoro had not yet achieved full development or widespread currency, Snow demonstrated a clear understanding of germ theory in his writings. He first published his theory in an 1849 essay \"On the Mode of Communication of Cholera,\" in which he correctly suggested that the fecal-oral route was the mode of communication, and that the disease replicated itself in the lower intestines. He even proposed in his 1855 edition of the work, that the structure of cholera was that of a cell.\n\nSnow's 1849 recommendation that water be \"filtered and boiled before it is used\" is one of the first practical applications of germ theory in the area of public health and is the antecedent to the modern boil-water advisory.\n\nIn 1855 he published a second edition of his article, documenting his more elaborate investigation of the effect of the water supply in the Soho, London epidemic of 1854.\n\nBy talking to local residents, he identified the source of the outbreak as the public water pump on Broad Street (now Broadwick Street). Although Snow's chemical and microscope examination of a water sample from the Broad Street pump did not conclusively prove its danger, his studies of the pattern of the disease were convincing enough to persuade the local council to disable the well pump by removing its handle. This action has been commonly credited as ending the outbreak, but Snow observed that the epidemic may have already been in rapid decline.\n\nSnow later used a dot map to illustrate the cluster of cholera cases around the pump. He also used statistics to illustrate the connection between the quality of the water source and cholera cases. He showed that the Southwark and Vauxhall Waterworks Company was taking water from sewage-polluted sections of the Thames and delivering the water to homes, leading to an increased incidence of cholera. Snow's study was a major event in the history of public health and geography. It is regarded as one of the founding events of the science of epidemiology.\n\nLater, researchers discovered that this public well had been dug only three feet from an old cesspit, which had begun to leak fecal bacteria. The diapers of a baby, who had contracted cholera from another source, had been washed into this cesspit. Its opening was originally under a nearby house, which had been rebuilt farther away after a fire. The city had widened the street and the cesspit was lost. It was common at the time to have a cesspit under most homes. Most families tried to have their raw sewage collected and dumped in the Thames to prevent their cesspit from filling faster than the sewage could decompose into the soil.\n\nAfter the cholera epidemic had subsided, government officials replaced the handle on the Broad Street pump. They had responded only to the urgent threat posed to the population, and afterward they rejected Snow's theory. To accept his proposal would have meant accepting the fecal-oral method transmission of disease, which they dismissed.\n\nThe more formal experiments on the relationship between germ and disease were conducted by Louis Pasteur between the year 1860 and 1864. He discovered the pathology of the puerperal fever and the pyogenic vibrio in the blood, and suggested using boric acid to kill these microorganisms before and after confinement.\n\nPasteur further demonstrated between 1860 and 1864 that fermentation and the growth of microorganisms in nutrient broths did not proceed by spontaneous generation. He exposed freshly boiled broth to air in vessels that contained a filter to stop all particles passing through to the growth medium, and even with no filter at all, with air being admitted via a long tortuous tube that would not pass dust particles. Nothing grew in the broths: therefore the living organisms that grew in such broths came from outside, as spores on dust, rather than being generated within the broth.\n\nPasteur discovered that another serious disease of silkworms, \"pébrine\", was caused by a small microscopic organism now known as \"Nosema bombycis\" (1870). Pasteur saved France's silk industry by developing a method to screen silkworms eggs for those that were not infected, a method that is still used today to control this and other silkworm diseases.\n\nRobert Koch is known for developing four basic criteria (known as Koch's postulates) for demonstrating, in a scientifically sound manner, that a disease is caused by a particular organism. These postulates grew out of his seminal work with anthrax using purified cultures of the pathogen that had been isolated from diseased animals.\n\nKoch's postulates were developed in the 19th century as general guidelines to identify pathogens that could be isolated with the techniques of the day. Even in Koch's time, it was recognized that some infectious agents were clearly responsible for disease even though they did not fulfill all of the postulates. Attempts to rigidly apply Koch's postulates to the diagnosis of viral diseases in the late 19th century, at a time when viruses could not be seen or isolated in culture, may have impeded the early development of the field of virology. Currently, a number of infectious agents are accepted as the cause of disease despite their not fulfilling all of Koch's postulates. Therefore, while Koch's postulates retain historical importance and continue to inform the approach to microbiologic diagnosis, fulfillment of all four postulates is not required to demonstrate causality.\n\nKoch's postulates have also influenced scientists who examine microbial pathogenesis from a molecular point of view. In the 1980s, a molecular version of Koch's postulates was developed to guide the identification of microbial genes encoding virulence factors.\n\nKoch's postulates:\n\nHowever, Koch abandoned the universalist requirement of the first postulate altogether when he discovered asymptomatic carriers of cholera and, later, of typhoid fever. Asymptomatic or subclinical infection carriers are now known to be a common feature of many infectious diseases, especially viruses such as polio, herpes simplex, HIV, and hepatitis C. As a specific example, all doctors and virologists agree that poliovirus causes paralysis in just a few infected subjects, and the success of the polio vaccine in preventing disease supports the conviction that the poliovirus is the causative agent.\n\nThe third postulate specifies \"should\", not \"must\", because as Koch himself proved in regard to both tuberculosis and cholera, not all organisms exposed to an infectious agent will acquire the infection. Noninfection may be due to such factors as general health and proper immune functioning; acquired immunity from previous exposure or vaccination; or genetic immunity, as with the resistance to malaria conferred by possessing at least one sickle cell allele.\n\nThe second postulate may also be suspended for certain microorganisms or entities that cannot (at the present time) be grown in pure culture, such as prions responsible for Creutzfeldt–Jakob disease.\nIn summary, a body of evidence that satisfies Koch's postulates is sufficient but not necessary to establish causation.\n\nIn the 1870s, Joseph Lister was instrumental in developing practical applications of the germ theory of disease with respect to sanitation in medical settings and aseptic surgical techniques—partly through the use of carbolic acid (phenol) as an antiseptic.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6018203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6018203", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Asia", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Asia\n\nIn 2008, 4.7 million people in Asia were living with HIV according to the United Nations (UN). The UN believes that Asia's epidemic peaked in the mid-1990s, and annual HIV incidence has subsequently declined by more than half. Regionally, the epidemic has remained somewhat stable since 2000.\n\nCompared with other regions, notably Africa and the Americas, the national HIV prevalence levels in East Asia are very low (0.1% in the adult (15-49) group). However, due to the large populations of many East Asian nations, this low national HIV prevalence still means that large numbers of people are living with HIV.\n\nThe picture in this region is dominated by the People's Republic of China. Much of the current spread of HIV in China is through intravenous drug abuse and paid sex. The number was estimated at between 430,000 and 1.5 million by independent researchers, with some estimates going much higher. In the rural areas, especially in Henan province, large numbers of farmers participated in contaminated blood transfusions; estimates of those infected are in the tens of thousands.\n\nOfficial figures (English) for July–October 2006 showed that just over half of domestic HIV/AIDS cases were amongst homosexual men, with the remainder transmitted through heterosexual intercourse, drug abuse, in the womb or via unknown means. Independent research has suggested that actual infection rates may be much higher, especially amongst the young. \n\nAccording to UNAIDS, less than 0.2% of North Korea's adult population has HIV. WHO estimates that North Korea has less than 100 people with HIV/AIDS. Officially, the country maintains that it is completely free of AIDS.\n\nSouth Korea cumulative \"reported\" cases of HIV surpassed 6,000, and 797 reported in 2008.\n\nAccording to the \"Korea Centers for Disease Control and Prevention\", the prevalence of HIV in South Korea is rising. The first case of HIV was in 1985 In 2000, the number of people diagnosed with HIV was 219, and has risen to 797 diagnoses in 2008. The majority of diagnoses were confirmed after routine check-ups, and males were found to have a much higher infection rate. In order to prevent Korean women from contracting HIV, HIV positive males should be detected early on. The most common transmission mode in South Korea is through heterosexual sexual contacts, because homosexuality is uncommon and socially unacceptable.\n\nDue to the lower prevalence of HIV in South Korea, the Korean media has represented HIV as a disease brought to Korea by foreigners from other countries. The Korean government has created policies to incorporate these ideas. Any foreigners who plan to stay in South Korea must test for HIV, and if results show they are positive they are no longer able to stay in the country for any reason. This may be a problem for foreigners who want to work in South Korea. The Korean government has also provided financial funding in order to reduce, and to assist those already living with the immunodeficiency virus for Korean citizens. Public Health organizations have created opportunities of assistance such as free treatment services, and anonymous testing locations.\n\nAs of March 2016, there are 31,620 reported cases of Taiwanese nationals testing positive for HIV/AIDS. Currently HIV/AIDS patients who are Taiwanese nationals can enjoy free medical care (including HAART therapies), with the state covering the cost. Non-governmental organizations have set up \"AIDS Half-Way Houses\" for homeless patients. The ratio of patients of drug users increases rapidly, which has led the authority to promote a harm reduction program.\n\nThe HIV prevalence rate across this region is less than .35 percent. Due to the population size this brings the total of HIV infections to 4.2 - 4.7 million adults and children. More AIDS deaths (480,000) occur in this region than any other region except sub-Saharan Africa. This sprawling region is not just vast but diverse, with the nature, pace and severity of HIV epidemics differing across the region. The AIDS picture in South Asia is dominated by the epidemic in India, but new data released by UNAIDS shows that India as of 2007 has a relatively low Aids prevalence rate. With an estimated 2-3.1 million infections, India has the third largest number of people with aids after South Africa and Nigeria.\n\nIn South and Southeast Asia, the HIV epidemic remains largely concentrated in injecting drug users, men who have sex with men, sex workers, and clients of sex workers and their immediate sexual partners. New infections are occurring in Thailand, Myanmar, and Cambodia at a steady rate. Prevention strategies in these populations are, for the most part, inadequate.\n\nAccording to reports by Bhutan Ministry of Health, Bhutan had 246 reported cases of HIV/AIDS through August 2011.\n\nThe AIDS picture in South Asia is dominated by the epidemic in India. In South and Southeast Asia, the HIV epidemic remains largely concentrated in injecting drug users, men who have sex with men, sex workers, and clients of sex workers and their immediate sexual partners. Migrants, in particular, are vulnerable and 67% of those infected in Bangladesh and 41% in Nepal are migrants returning from India. This is in part due to human trafficking and exploitation, but also because even those migrants who willingly go to India in search of work are often afraid to access state health services due to concerns over their immigration status.\n\nMalaysia for World AIDS Day 2008 \"reported\" 82,704 cumulative HIV cases since 1986 as of June 2008.\n\nHIV is not currently a dominant epidemic in Pakistan. However, the number of cases is growing. Moderately high drug use and lack of acceptance that non-marital sex is common in the society have allowed the AIDS epidemic to take hold in Pakistan, mainly among injection drug users, some male sex workers and repatriated migrant workers. AIDS may yet become a major health issue. The National AIDS Control Programme’s latest figures show that over 4,000 HIV cases have so far been reported since 1986, but UN and government estimates put the number of HIV/AIDS cases around 97,000 (range 46,000 to 210,000). More realistic estimates that are based on actual surveillance figures, however, suggest that this number may be closer to 40,000 - 45,000. The overall prevalence of HIV infection in adults aged 15 to 49 is 0.1% (and Shah \"et al.\" under review) (0.05% if one accepts the lower estimates).\n\nThe national response to HIV started focusing on Most At Risk Groups in 2004 and so far included 9 cities where injection drug users and sex workers receive prevention and harm reduction services and 12 HIV care centers where nearly 1000 patients receive antiretroviral drugs.\n\nThe Philippines has a relatively low incidence of HIV/AIDS. There have been about 2800 reported cases since 1984, but independent estimates put the number of cases closer to 12000. The majority (70-75%) of carriers are male, 25-39, and the predominant mode of transmission is through sexual intercourse.\n\nAlthough national incidence remains to be relatively low, an independent HIV surveillance study conducted in 2010 by Dr. Louie Mar Gangcuangco and colleagues from the University of the Philippines-Philippine General Hospital showed that out of 406 men having sex with men tested for HIV in Metro Manila, HIV prevalence was 11.8% (95% confidence interval: 8.7- 15.0).\n\nAIDS was first reported in Sri Lanka in 1986. First indigenous transmission was in 1989. As of March 2013, 1693 persons were diagnosed with the virus. Over 4200 persons are estimated to be infected with the virus. Most common mode of transmission is heterosexual followed by homosexual.\n\nSex workers are considered most at risk. Number of partners per sex worker is comparatively low (4 per week) compared with other countries (Bangladesh 18-36 per week). There condom use rate is relatively high (67.6). Blood transfusion service is mostly state run and is considered safe. Of the 35,000 drug users less than 1% are thought to be injecting drug users.\n\n532,522 Thais were living with HIV/AIDS in 2008.\n\nThe UN believes that there were approximately 290,000 people living with HIV as of 2008.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19222633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19222633", "title": "HIV/AIDS in Guatemala", "text": "HIV/AIDS in Guatemala\n\nWith less than 1 percent of the adult population estimated to be HIV-positive, Guatemala is considered to have a concentrated epidemic. However, Guatemala – Central America’s largest country – accounts for nearly one-sixth of Central America’s HIV-infected population. Since the country’s first case of HIV was reported in 1984, infections have occurred primarily among men who have sex with men (MSM) and sex workers. According to the National AIDS Program (NAP) in the Ministry of Health (MOH), as of April 2007, Guatemala had 10,304 officially reported cases of HIV/AIDS. UNAIDS estimates that 61,000 people are living with HIV in Guatemala and 2,700 deaths have occurred due to AIDS.\n\nGuatemala’s HIV-infected population lives primarily in urban areas along major transportation routes. According to Guatemala’s 2007 National Epidemiological Center report, more than 77 percent of reported HIV/AIDS cases occurred in seven departments: Suchitepéquez, Guatemala, Izabal, Escuintla, Retalhuleu, San Marcos, and Quetzaltenango. The NAP estimates that 80 percent of reported HIV cases have occurred among 15- to 49-year-olds, with 20- to 34-year-olds accounting for more than 51 percent of all cases. National HIV prevalence among sex workers is 4 percent, and among street-based female sex workers prevalence is as high as 12 percent. National HIV prevalence among MSM is 10 percent, but in Guatemala City, 18 percent of MSM were HIV-positive in 2006, according to baseline data collected for a Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria project. A 2002 study published by UNAIDS in 2007 showed that infection levels among MSM in Guatemala is 10 times higher than in the adult general population. Other vulnerable populations include prison inmates, with a reported prevalence of 3.2 percent, and at-risk youth and street children, with HIV prevalence at 3.3 percent. According to the MOH, no cases of infection have been reported among injecting drug users or through blood or blood products. Available data indicate that HIV has affected mainly urban and Ladino (mixed Amerindian-Spanish peoples) populations; however, preliminary data indicate that the indigenous population (primarily Mayans) potentially could be experiencing increasing HIV infections. The data are insufficient, however, to determine the extent of the epidemic within this population.\n\nSeveral risk factors contribute to Guatemala’s epidemic, including migration and tourism. While in transit, migrants may participate in high-risk sexual behavior, increasing their chances of becoming infected with HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs). The Garifuna population, which shares cultural and ethnic characteristics with the Caribbean countries, is more at risk than the general population. The effects of HIV/AIDS are exacerbated by high levels of poverty and limited access to health care, particularly among rural populations.\n\nThe rate of HIV co-infection with tuberculosis (TB) is growing. The current rate of new TB infections is 34 per 100,000 people and a 2006 study cited by UNAIDS found that HIV prevalence among new TB patients in Quetzaltenango tripled from 4.2 to 12 percent between 1995 and 2002. TB is the most frequent opportunistic infection associated with HIV/AIDS in Guatemala.\n\nAccording to the 2003 AIDS Program Effort Index, a tool developed by the United States Agency for International Development (USAID) to measure the collective effort put into an effective HIV/AIDS response by individuals and domestic and international organizations, Guatemala had a score of 52, which is an improvement from the score in 1996 but still slightly lower than the average score of 55 for Latin America and the Caribbean region. It ranked highest in the areas of political support and prevention programs.\n\nThe NAP has been responsible for surveillance of the epidemic since 1984. However, sentinel surveillance was not established until 1998. Over the past several years, the Guatemalan government has taken concrete steps to address the HIV/AIDS epidemic. A national strategic plan was produced for 1999 to 2003. At the end of 2005, Guatemala adopted a new national HIV/AIDS policy, along with a new strategic plan for 2006 to 2010. The plan charges the NAP with coordinating national responses, including those from civil society. UNAIDS works with the NAP, and USAID provides technical assistance to implement the national strategic plan and establish key universal access targets. Decentralization of AIDS care and prevention services throughout the country is an important priority.\n\nIn recent years, the NAP has improved communication with civil society and other institutions to coordinate national efforts. This has resulted in the establishment of NAP-led technical committees with multisectoral participation to address such issues as standardizing diagnosis, treatment, and care. Moreover, the Country Coordination Mechanism serves as an inter-institutional coordinating body, aimed at better implementing Global Fund projects. Guatemala is also implementing the Regional HIV/STI Plan for the Health Sector 2006–2015 of the Pan American Health Organization (PAHO). The Plan is designed to assist health services and systems in the Americas to more effectively respond to the HIV epidemic and prevent STIs.\n\nAntiretroviral treatment (ART) coverage has expanded over the years, and currently, 76 percent of identified HIV-infected men and women who need treatment receive ART, according to the NAP. The recent WHO/UNAIDS/UNICEF report Towards Universal Access estimates that 52 percent of HIV-infected people who need treatment receive ART. However, because the expansion and decentralization of services has been slow, people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA) must travel long distances to obtain treatment, imposing cost burdens on them. There are major challenges in extending both prevention and care coverage outside the capital and other main cities. Furthermore, discrimination against PLWHA and vulnerable groups such as commercial sex workers and MSM remains a significant barrier to a more effective AIDS response in Guatemala. USAID has supported a national campaign focusing on the diversity of PLWHA to help break down barriers of stigma and discrimination (S&D) and promote respect for human rights related to HIV/AIDS.\n\nGuatemala receives significant support from the Global Fund to expand prevention, care, and treatment activities among vulnerable groups and in priority geographic areas of the country. The objectives of the Global Fund are to expand prevention activities and ART services from the capital city to regions with the highest HIV incidence; to improve coordination among civil society organizations working in HIV/AIDS; and to reduce mother-to-child transmission of HIV by expanding voluntary screening and counseling for pregnant women. Bilateral donors, including USAID and European countries, also provide support for prevention, treatment, care, and health system improvement initiatives.\n\n"}
{"id": "4946881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4946881", "title": "Herefossfjorden", "text": "Herefossfjorden\n\nHerefossfjorden is a lake in the municipality of Birkenes in Aust-Agder county, Norway. The lake is about long and it is part of the Tovdalselva river. The Gauslåfjorden and Uldalsåna lakes flow into Herefossfjorden near the village of Herefoss at the northern end of the lake. The Uldalsåna lake is held back by a dam and the Gauslåfjorden flows over a waterfall (called the \"Herefossen\") into the Herefossfjorden. The Norwegian National Road 41 runs along the eastern shore. The village of Herefoss lies on the northern edge of the lake and the village of Søre Herefoss lies at the southern end of the fjord. The old municipality of Herefoss existed from 1838 until 1967 and it included all the land surrounding the lake.\n\n"}
{"id": "17032164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17032164", "title": "History of nursing", "text": "History of nursing\n\nThe word \"nurse\" originally came from the Latin word \"nutrire\", meaning to suckle, referring to a wet-nurse; only in the late 16th century did it attain its modern meaning of a person who cares for the infirm.\n\nFrom the earliest times most cultures produced a stream of nurses dedicated to service on religious principles. Both Christendom and the Muslim World generated a stream of dedicated nurses from their earliest days. In Europe before the foundation of modern nursing, Catholic nuns and the military often provided nursing-like services. It took until the 19th century for nursing to become a secular profession.\n\nThe early history of nurses suffers from a lack of source material, but nursing in general has long been an extension of the wet-nurse function of women.\n\nBuddhist Indian ruler (268 B.C.E. to 232 B.C.E.) Ashoka erected a series of pillars, which included an edict ordering hospitals to be built along the routes of travelers, and that they be\n\"well provided with instruments and medicine, consisting of mineral and vegetable drugs, with roots and fruits\"; \"Whenever there is no provision of drugs, medical roots, and herbs, they are to be supplied, and skilful physicians appointed at the expense of the state to administer them.\" The system of public hospitals continued until the fall of Buddhism in India ca. 750 C.E.\n\nAbout 100 B.C.E. the \"Charaka Samhita\" was written in India, stating that good medical practice requires a patient, physician, nurse, and medicines, with the nurse required to be knowledgeable, skilled at preparing formulations and dosage, sympathetic towards everyone, and clean.\n\nThe first known Christian nurse, Phoebe, is mentioned in Romans 16:1. During the early years of the Christian Church (ca. 50 C.E.), St. Paul sent a deaconess named Phoebe to Rome as the first visiting nurse.\n\nFrom its earliest days, following the edicts of Jesus, Christianity encouraged its devotees to tend the sick. Priests were often also physicians. According to the historian Geoffrey Blainey, while pagan religions seldom offered help to the infirm, the early Christians were willing to nurse the sick and take food to them, notably during the smallpox epidemic of AD 165-180 and the measles outbreak of around AD 250; \"In nursing the sick and dying, regardless of religion, the Christians won friends and sympathisers\".\n\nFollowing the First Council of Nicaea in 325 AD, Christianity became the official religion of the Roman Empire, leading to an expansion of the provision of care. Among the earliest were those built ca. 370 by St. Basil the Great, bishop of Caesarea Mazaca in Cappadocia in Asia Minor (modern-day Turkey), by Saint Fabiola in Rome ca. 390, and by the physician-priest Saint Sampson (d. 530) in Constantinople, Called the Basiliad, St. Basil's hospital resembled a city, and included housing for doctors and nurses and separate buildings for various classes of patients. There was a separate section for lepers. Eventually construction of a hospital in every cathedral town was begun.\n\nChristian emphasis on practical charity gave rise to the development of systematic nursing and hospitals after the end of the persecution of the early church. Ancient church leaders like St. Benedict of Nursia (480-547) emphasized medicine as an aid to the provision of hospitality. 12th century Roman Catholic orders like the Dominicans and Carmelites have long lived in religious communities that work for the care of the sick.\n\nSome hospitals maintained libraries and training programs, and doctors compiled their medical and pharmacological studies in manuscripts. Thus in-patient medical care in the sense of what we today consider a hospital, was an invention driven by Christian mercy and Byzantine innovation. Byzantine hospital staff included the Chief Physician (archiatroi), professional nurses (hypourgoi) and orderlies (hyperetai). By the twelfth century, Constantinople had two well-organized hospitals, staffed by doctors who were both male and female. Facilities included systematic treatment procedures and specialized wards for various diseases.\n\nIn the early 7th century, Rufaidah bint Sa’ad (also known as Rufaida Al-Aslamia) became what is now described as the first Muslim nurse. A contemporary of Muhammad, she hailed from the Bani Aslam tribe in Medina and learned her medical skills from her father, a traditional healer. After she had lead a group of women to treat injured fighters on the battlefield, Muhammad gave her permission to set up a tent near the Medina mosque to provide treatment and care for the ill and the needy.\n\nMedieval hospitals in Europe followed a similar pattern to the Byzantine. They were religious communities, with care provided by monks and nuns. (An old French term for hospital is \"hôtel-Dieu\", \"hostel of God.\") Some were attached to monasteries; others were independent and had their own endowments, usually of property, which provided income for their support. Some hospitals were multi-functional while others were founded for specific purposes such as leper hospitals, or as refuges for the poor, or for pilgrims: not all cared for the sick. The first Spanish hospital, founded by the Catholic Visigoth bishop Masona in 580AD at Mérida, was a \"xenodochium\" designed as an inn for travellers (mostly pilgrims to the shrine of Eulalia of Mérida) as well as a hospital for citizens and local farmers. The hospital's endowment consisted of farms to feed its patients and guests. From the account given by Paul the Deacon we learn that this hospital was supplied with physicians and nurses, whose mission included the care the sick wherever they were found, \"slave or free, Christian or Jew.\" \n\nDuring the late 700s and early 800s, Emperor Charlemagne decreed that those hospitals which had been well conducted before his time and had fallen into decay should be restored in accordance with the needs of the time. He further ordered that a hospital should be attached to each cathedral and monastery.\n\nDuring the tenth century the monasteries became a dominant factor in hospital work. The famous Benedictine Abbey of Cluny, founded in 910, set the example which was widely imitated throughout France and Germany. Besides its infirmary for the religious, each monastery had a hospital in which externs were cared for. These were in charge of the \"eleemosynarius\", whose duties, carefully prescribed by the rule, included every sort of service that the visitor or patient could require.\n\nAs the eleemosynarius was obliged to seek out the sick and needy in the neighborhood, each monastery became a center for the relief of suffering. Among the monasteries notable in this respect were those of the Benedictines at Corbie in Picardy, Hirschau, Braunweiler, Deutz, Ilsenburg, Liesborn, Pram, and Fulda; those of the Cistercians at Arnsberg, Baumgarten, Eberbach, Himmenrode, Herrnalb, Volkenrode, and Walkenried.\n\nNo less efficient was the work done by the diocesan clergy in accordance with the disciplinary enactments of the councils of Aachen (817, 836), which prescribed that a hospital should be maintained in connection with each collegiate church. The canons were obliged to contribute towards the support of the hospital, and one of their number had charge of the inmates. As these hospitals were located in cities, more numerous demands were made upon them than upon those attached to the monasteries. In this movement the bishop naturally took the lead, hence the hospitals founded by Heribert (died 1021) in Cologne, Godard (died 1038) in Hildesheim, Conrad (died 975) in Constance, and Ulrich (died 973) in Augsburg. But similar provision was made by the other churches; thus at Trier the hospitals of St. Maximin, St. Matthew, St. Simeon, and St. James took their names from the churches to which they were attached. During the period 1207–1577 no less than 155 hospitals were founded in Germany.\n\nThe Ospedale Maggiore, traditionally named Ca' Granda (i.e. Big House), in Milan, northern Italy, was constructed to house one of the first community hospitals, the largest such undertaking of the fifteenth century. Commissioned by Francesco Sforza in 1456 and designed by Antonio Filarete it is among the first examples of Renaissance architecture in Lombardy.\n\nThe Normans brought their hospital system along when they conquered England in 1066. By merging with traditional land-tenure and customs, the new charitable houses became popular and were distinct from both English monasteries and French hospitals. They dispensed alms and some medicine, and were generously endowed by the nobility and gentry who counted on them for spiritual rewards after death.\n\nAccording to Geoffrey Blainey, the Catholic Church in Europe provided many of the services of a welfare state: \"It conducted hospitals for the old and orphanages for the young; hospices for the sick of all ages; places for the lepers; and hostels or inns where pilgrims could buy a cheap bed and meal\". It supplied food to the population during famine and distributed food to the poor. This welfare system the church funded through collecting taxes on a large scale and possessing large farmlands and estates.\n\nCatholic women played large roles in health and healing in medieval and early modern Europe. A life as a nun was a prestigious role; wealthy families provided dowries for their daughters, and these funded the convents, while the nuns provided free nursing care for the poor.\n\nMeanwhile, in Catholic lands such as France, rich families continued to fund convents and monasteries, and enrolled their daughters as nuns who provided free health services to the poor. Nursing was a religious role for the nurse, and there was little call for science.\n\nThe Eastern Orthodox Church had established many hospitals in the middle east, but following the rise of Islam from the 7th century, Arabic medicine developed in this region, where a number of important advances were made and an Islamic tradition of nursing begun. Arab ideas were later influential in Europe. The famous Knights Hospitaller arose as a group of individuals associated with an Amalfitan hospital in Jerusalem, which was built to provide care for poor, sick or injured Christian pilgrims to the Holy Land. Following the capture of the city by Crusaders, the order became a military as well as infirmarian order.\n\nRoman Catholic orders such as the Franciscans stressed tending the sick, especially during the devastating plagues.\n\nThe Catholic elites provided hospital services because of their theology of salvation that good works were the route to heaven. The same theology holds strong into the 21st century. In Catholic areas, the tradition of nursing sisters continued uninterrupted. Several orders of nuns provided nursing services in hospitals. A leadership role was taken by the Daughters of Charity of Saint Vincent de Paul, founded in France in 1633. New orders of Catholic nuns expanded the range of activities and reached new areas. For example, in rural Brittany in France, the Daughters of the Holy Spirit, created in 1706, played a central role. New opportunity for nuns as charitable practitioners were created by devout nobles on their own estates. The nuns provided comprehensive care for the sick poor on their patrons' estates, acting not only as nurses, but took on expanded roles as physicians, surgeons, and apothecaries. The French Catholics in New France (Canada) and New Orleans continued these traditions. During the French Revolution, most of the orders of nurses were shut down and there was no organized nursing care to replace them. However the demand for their nursing services remained strong, and after 1800 the sisters reappeared and resumed their work in hospitals and on rural estates. They were tolerated by officials because they had widespread support and were the link between elite physicians and distrustful peasants who needed help.\n\nThe Protestant reformers, led by Martin Luther, rejected the notion that rich men could gain God's grace through good works—and thereby escape purgatory—by providing cash endowments to charitable institutions. They also rejected the Catholic idea that the poor patients earned grace and salvation through their suffering. Protestants generally closed all the convents and most of the hospitals, sending women home to become housewives, often against their will. On the other hand, local officials recognized the public value of hospitals, and some were continued in Protestant lands, but without monks or nuns and in the control of local governments.\n\nIn London, the crown allowed two hospitals to continue their charitable work, under nonreligious control of city officials. The convents were all shut down but Harkness finds that women—some of them former nuns—were part of a new system that delivered essential medical services to people outside their family. They were employed by parishes and hospitals, as well as by private families, and provided nursing care as well as some medical, pharmaceutical, and surgical services.\n\nIn the 16th century, Protestant reformers shut down the monasteries and convents, though they allowed a few to continue in operation. Those nuns who had been serving as nurses were given pensions or told to get married and stay home. Between 1600 and 1800, Protestant Europe had a few noticeable hospitals, but no regular system of nursing. The weakened public role of women left female practitioners restricted to assisting neighbors and family in an unpaid and unrecognized capacity.\n\nModern nursing began in the 19th century in Germany and Britain, and spread worldwide by 1900.\n\nPhoebe, the nurse mentioned in the New Testament, was a deaconess. The role had virtually died out centuries before, but was revived in Germany in 1836 when Theodor Fliedner and his wife Friederike Münster opened the first deaconess motherhouse in Kaiserswerth on the Rhine. The diaconate was soon brought to England and Scandinavia, Kaiserswerth model. The women obligated themselves for 5 years of service, receiving room, board, uniforms, pocket money, and lifelong care. The uniform was the usual dress of the married woman. There were variations, such as an emphasis on preparing women for marriage through training in nursing, child care, social work and housework. In the Anglican Church, the diaconate was an auxiliary to the pastorate, and there were no mother houses. By 1890 there were over 5,000 deaconesses in Protestant Europe, chiefly Germany Scandinavia and England. In World War II, diaconates in war zones sustained heavy damage. As eastern Europe fell to communism, most diaconates were shut down, and 7000 deaconesses became refugees in West Germany. By 1957, in Germany there were 46,000 deaconesses and 10,000 associates. Other countries reported a total of 14,000 deaconesses, most of them Lutherans. In the United States and Canada 1550 women were counted, half of them in the Methodist Church.\n\nWilliam Passavant in 1849 brought the first four deaconesses to Pittsburgh, after visiting Kaiserswerth. They worked at the Pittsburgh Infirmary (now Passavant Hospital). Between 1880 and 1915, 62 training schools were opened in the United States. The lack of training had weakened Passavant's programs. However recruiting became increasingly difficult after 1910 as women preferred graduate nursing schools or the social work curriculum offered by state universities.\n\nThe Crimean War was a significant development in nursing history when English nurse Florence Nightingale laid the foundations of professional nursing with the principles summarised in the book \"Notes on Nursing\". A fund was set up in 1855 by members of the public to raise money for Florence Nightingale and her nurses' work In 1856, £44,039 (equivalent to roughly over £2 million today) was pooled and with this Nightingale decided to use the money to lay the foundations for a training school at St Thomas' Hospital. In 1860, the training for the first batch of nurses began; upon graduation from the school, these nurses used to be called 'Nightingales'.\n\nNightingale's revelation of the abysmal nursing care afforded soldiers in the Crimean War energized reformers. Queen Victoria in 1860 ordered a hospital to be built to train Army nurses and surgeons, the Royal Victoria Hospital. The hospital opened in 1863 in Netley and admitted and cared for military patients. Beginning in 1866, nurses were formally appointed to Military General Hospitals. The Army Nursing Service (ANS) oversaw the work of the nurses starting in 1881. These military nurses were sent overseas beginning with the First Boer War (often called Zulu War) from 1879 to 1881. They were also dispatched to serve during the Egyptian Campaign in 1882 and the Sudan War of 1883 to 1884. During the Sudan War members of the Army Nursing Service nursed in hospital ships on the Nile as well as the Citadel in Cairo. Almost 2000 nurses served during the second Boer War, the Anglo-Boer War of 1899 to 1902, alongside nurses who were part of the colonial armies of Australia, Canada and New Zealand. They served in tented field hospitals. 23 Army Nursing sisters from Britain lost their lives from disease outbreaks.\n\nNew Zealand was the first country to regulate nurses nationally, with adoption of the Nurses Registration Act on the 12 September 1901. It was here in New Zealand that Ellen Dougherty became the first registered nurse.\n\nCanadian nursing dates all the way back to 1639 in Quebec with the Augustine nuns. These nuns were trying to open up a mission that cared for the spiritual and physical needs of patients. The establishment of this mission created the first nursing apprenticeship training in North America.\n\nIn the nineteenth century there were some Catholic orders of nursing that were trying to spread their message across Canada. These women had only an occasional consultations with a physician. Towards the end of the nineteenth century hospital care and medical services had been improved and expanded. Much of this was due to the Nightingale model, which prevailed in English Canada. In 1874 the first formal nursing training program was started at the General and Marine Hospital in St. Catharines in Ontario. Many programs popped up in hospitals across Canada after this one was established. Graduates and teachers from these programs began to fight for licensing legislation, nursing journals, university training for nurses, and for professional organizations for nurses.\n\nThe first instance of Canadian nurses and the military was in 1885 with the Northwest Rebellion. Some nurses came out to aid the wounded. In 1901 Canadian nurses were officially part of the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps. Georgina Fane Pope and Margaret C. MacDonald were the first nurses officially recognized as military nurses.\n\nCanadian missionary nurses were also of great importance in Henan, China as a part of the North China Mission starting in 1888.\n\nIn the late nineteenth and early twentieth centuries women made inroads into various professions including teaching, journalism, social work, and public health. These advances included the establishment of a Women's Medical College in Toronto (and in Kingston, Ontario) in 1883, attributed in part to the persistence of Emily Stowe, the first female doctor to practice in Canada. Stowe's daughter, Augusta Stowe-Gullen, became the first woman to graduate from a Canadian medical school.\n\nApart from a token few, women were outsiders to the male-dominated medical profession. As physicians became better organized, they successfully had laws passed to control the practice of medicine and pharmacy and banning marginal and traditional practitioners. Midwifery—practiced along traditional lines by women—was restricted and practically died out by 1900. Even so, the great majority of childbirths took pace at home until the 1920s, when hospitals became preferred, especially by women who were better educated, more modern, and more trusting in modern medicine.\n\nIn the Prairie provinces, the first homesteaders relied on themselves for medical services. Poverty and geographic isolation empowered women to learn and practice medical care with the herbs, roots, and berries that worked for their mothers. They prayed for divine intervention but also practiced supernatural magic that provided as much psychological as physical relief. The reliance on homeopathic remedies continued as trained nurses and doctors and how-to manuals slowly reached the homesteaders in the early 20th century.\n\nAfter 1900 medicine and especially nursing modernized and became well organized.\n\nThe Lethbridge Nursing Mission in Alberta was a representative Canadian voluntary mission. It was founded, independent of the Victorian Order of Nurses, in 1909 by Jessie Turnbull Robinson. A former nurse, Robinson was elected as president of the Lethbridge Relief Society and began district nursing services aimed at poor women and children. The mission was governed by a volunteer board of women directors and began by raising money for its first year of service through charitable donations and payments from the Metropolitan Life Insurance Company. The mission also blended social work with nursing, becoming the dispenser of unemployment relief.\n\nRichardson (1998) examines the social, political, economic, class, and professional factors that contributed to ideological and practical differences between leaders of the Alberta Association of Graduate Nurses (AAGN), established in 1916, and the United Farm Women of Alberta (UFWA), founded in 1915, regarding the promotion and acceptance of midwifery as a recognized subspecialty of registered nurses. Accusing the AAGN of ignoring the medical needs of rural Alberta women, the leaders of the UFWA worked to improve economic and living conditions of women farmers. Irene Parlby, the UFWA's first president, lobbied for the establishment of a provincial Department of Public Health, government-provided hospitals and doctors, and passage of a law to permit nurses to qualify as registered midwives. The AAGN leadership opposed midwife certification, arguing that nursing curricula left no room for midwife study, and thus nurses were not qualified to participate in home births. In 1919 the AAGN compromised with the UFWA, and they worked together for the passage of the Public Health Nurses Act that allowed nurses to serve as midwives in regions without doctors. Thus, Alberta's District Nursing Service, created in 1919 to coordinate the province's women's health resources, resulted chiefly from the organized, persistent political activism of UFWA members and only minimally from the actions of professional nursing groups clearly uninterested in rural Canadians' medical needs.\n\nThe Alberta District Nursing Service administered health care in the predominantly rural and impoverished areas of Alberta in the first half of the 20th century. Founded in 1919 to meet maternal and emergency medical needs by the United Farm Women (UFWA), the Nursing Service treated prairie settlers living in primitive areas lacking doctors and hospitals. Nurses provided prenatal care, worked as midwives, performed minor surgery, conducted medical inspections of schoolchildren, and sponsored immunization programs. The post-Second World War discovery of large oil and gas reserves resulted in economic prosperity and the expansion of local medical services. The passage of provincial health and universal hospital insurance in 1957 precipitated the eventual phasing out of the obsolete District Nursing Service in 1976.\n\nAfter World War II, the health care system expanded and was nationalized with medicare. Currently there are 260,000 nurses in Canada but they face the same difficulties as most countries, as technology advances and the aging population requires more nursing care.\n\nDuring most of Mexico's wars in the nineteenth and early twentieth centuries, camp followers known as soldaderas nursed soldiers wounded in warfare. During the Mexican Revolution (1910-1920) care of soldiers in northern Mexico was also undertaken by the Neutral White Cross, founded by Elena Arizmendi Mejia after the Mexican Red Cross refused to treat revolutionary soldiers. The Neutral White Cross treated soldiers regardless of their faction.\n\nProfessionalization of nursing in France came in the late 19th and early 20th century. In 1870 France's 1,500 hospitals were operated by 11,000 Catholic sisters; by 1911 there were 15,000 nuns representing over 200 religious orders. Government policy after 1900 was to secularize public institutions, and diminish the role the Catholic Church. The lay staff was enlarged from 14,000 in 1890 to 95,000 in 1911. This political goal came in conflict with the need to maintain better quality of medical care in antiquated facilities. Many doctors, while personally anti-clerical, realized their dependence on the Catholic sisters. Most lay nurses came from peasant or working-class families and were poorly trained. Faced with the long hours and low pay, many soon married and left the field, while the Catholic sisters had renounced marriage and saw nursing as their God-given vocation. New government-operated nursing schools turned out nonreligous nurses who were slated for supervisory roles. During the World War, an outpouring of patriotic volunteers brought large numbers of untrained middle-class women into the military hospitals. They left when the war ended but the long-term effect was to heighten the prestige of nursing. In 1922 the government issued a national diploma for nursing.\n\nNursing professionalized rapidly in the late 19th century as larger hospitals set\nup nursing schools that attracted ambitious women from middle- and working-class backgrounds. Agnes Elizabeth Jones and Linda Richards established quality nursing schools in the U.S. and Japan; Linda Richards was officially America's first professionally trained nurse, having been trained at Florence Nightingale's training school, and subsequently graduating in 1873 from the \"New England Hospital for Women and Children\" in Boston\n\nIn the early 1900s, the autonomous, nursing-controlled, Nightingale-era schools came to an end. Despite the establishment of university-affiliated nursing schools, such as Columbia and Yale, hospital training programs were dominant. Formal \"book learning\" was discouraged in favor of clinical experience through an apprenticeship. In order to meet a growing demand, hospitals used student nurses as cheap labor at the expense of quality formal education.\n\nThe number of hospitals grew from 149 in 1873 to 4,400 in 1910 (with 420,000 beds) to 6,300 in 1933, primarily because the public trusted hospitals more and could afford more intensive and professional care.\n\nThey were operated by city, state and federal agencies, by churches, by stand-alone non-profits, and by for-profit enterprises run by a local doctor. All the major denominations built hospitals; in 1915, the Catholic Church ran 541, staffed primarily by unpaid nuns. The others sometimes had a small cadre of deaconesses as staff. Most larger hospitals operated a school of nursing, which provided training to young women, who in turn did much of the staffing on an unpaid basis. The number of active graduate nurses rose rapidly from 51,000 in 1910 to 375,000 in 1940 and 700,000 in 1970.\n\nThe Protestant churches reentered the health field, especially by setting up orders of women, called deaconesses who dedicated themselves to nursing services.\n\nThe modern deaconess movement began in Germany in 1836 when Theodor Fliedner and his wife opened the first deaconess motherhouse in Kaiserswerth on the Rhine. It became a model and within a half century were over 5,000 deaconesses in Europe. The Chursh of England named its first deaconess in 1862. The North London Deaconess Institution trained deaconesses for other dioceses and some served overseas.\n\nWilliam Passavant in 1849 brought the first four deaconesses to Pittsburgh, in the United States, after visiting Kaiserswerth. They worked at the Pittsburgh Infirmary (now Passavant Hospital).\n\nThe American Methodists – the largest Protestant denomination—engaged in large-scale missionary activity in Asia and elsewhere in the world, making medical services a priority as early as the 1850s. Methodists in America took note, and began opening their own charitable institutions such as orphanages and old people's homes after 1860. In the 1880s, Methodists began opening hospitals in the United States, which served people of all religious backgrounds beliefs. By 1895 13 hospitals were in operation in major cities. well \n\nIn 1884, U.S. Lutherans, particularly John D. Lankenau, brought seven sisters from Germany to run the German Hospital in Philadelphia.\n\nBy 1963, the Lutheran Church in America had centers for deaconess work in Philadelphia, Baltimore, and Omaha.\n\nIn the U.S., the role of public health nurse began in Los Angeles in 1898, by 1924 there were 12,000 public health nurses, half of them in the 100 largest cities. Their average annual salary in larger cities was $1,390. In addition, there were thousands of nurses employed by private agencies handling similar work. Public health nurses supervised health issues in the public and parochial schools, to prenatal and infant care, handled communicable diseases and tuberculosis and dealt with an aerial diseases.\n\nDuring the Spanish–American War of 1898, medical conditions in the tropical war zone were dangerous, with yellow fever and malaria endemic. The United States government called for women to volunteer as nurses. Thousands did so, but few were professionally trained. Among the latter were 250 Catholic nurses, most of them from the Daughters of Charity of St. Vincent de Paul.\n\nSporadic progress was made on several continents, where medical pioneers established formal nursing schools. But even as late as the 1870s, \"women working in North American urban hospitals typically were untrained, working class, and accorded lowly status by both the medical profession they supported and society at large\". Nursing had the same status in Great Britain and continental Europe before World War I.\n\nHospital nursing schools in the United States and Canada took the lead in applying Nightingale's model to their training programmers:\n\nIn late the 1920s, the women's specialties in health care included 294,000 trained nurses, 150,000 untrained nurses, 47,000 midwives, and 550,000 other hospital workers (most of them women).\n\nIn recent decades, professionalization has moved nursing degrees out of RN-oriented hospital schools and into community colleges and universities. Specialization has brought numerous journals to broaden the knowledge base of the profession.\n\nBy the beginning of World War I, military nursing still had only a small role for women in Britain; 10,500 nurses enrolled in Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service (QAIMNS) and the Princess Mary's Royal Air Force Nursing Service. These services dated to 1902 and 1918, and enjoyed royal sponsorship. There also were Voluntary Aid Detachment (VAD) nurses who had been enrolled by the Red Cross. The ranks that were created for the new nursing services were Matron-in-Chief, Principal Matron, Sister and Staff Nurses. Women joined steadily throughout the War. At the end of 1914, there were 2,223 regular and reserve members of the QAIMNS and when the war ended there were 10,404 trained nurses in the QAIMNS.\n\nGrace McDougall (1887–1963) was the energetic commandant of the First Aid Nursing Yeomanry (FANY), which had formed in 1907 as an auxiliary to the home guard in Britain. McDougall at one point was captured by the Germans but escaped. The British army wanted nothing to do with them so they drove ambulances and ran hospitals and casualty clearing stations for the Belgian and French armies.\n\nWhen Canadian nurses volunteered to serve during World War I, they were made commissioned officers by the Canadian Army before being sent overseas, a move that would grant them some authority in the ranks, so that enlisted patients and orderlies would have to comply with their direction. Canada was the first country in the world to grant women this privilege. At the beginning of the War, nurses were not dispatched to the casualty clearing stations near the front lines, where they would be exposed to shell fire. They were initially assigned to hospitals a safe distance away from the front lines. As the war continued, however, nurses were assigned to casualty clearing stations. They were exposed to shelling, and caring for soldiers with \"shell shock\" and casualties suffering the effects of new weapons such as poisonous gas, as Katherine Wilson-Sammie recollects in \"Lights Out! A Canadian Nursing Sister’s Tale\". World War I was also the first war in which a clearly marked hospital ship evacuating the wounded was targeted and sunk by an enemy submarine or torpedo boat, an act that had previously been considered unthinkable, but which happened repeatedly (see List of hospital ships sunk in World War I). Nurses were among the casualties.\n\nCanadian women volunteering to serve overseas as nurses overwhelmed the army with applications. A total of 3,141 Canadian \"nursing sisters\" served in the Canadian Army Medical Corps and 2,504 of those served overseas in England, France and the Eastern Mediterranean at Gallipoli, Alexandria and Salonika. By the end of the First World War, 46 Canadian Nursing Sisters had died In addition to these nurses serving overseas with the military, others volunteered and paid their own way over with organizations such as the Canadian Red Cross, the Victorian Order of Nurses, and St. John Ambulance. The sacrifices made by these nurses during the War in fact gave a boost to the women's suffrage movement in many of the countries that fought in the war. The Canadian Army nursing sisters were among the first women in the world to win the right to vote in a federal election; the Military Voters Act of 1917 extended the vote to women in the service such as Nursing Sisters.\n\nAustralian nurses served in the war as part of the Australian General Hospital. Australia established two hospitals at Lemnos and Heliopolis Islands to support the Dardanelles campaign at Gallipoli. Nursing recruitment was sporadic, with some reserve nurses sent with the advance parties to set up the transport ship HMAS \"Gascoyne\" while others simply fronted to Barracks and were accepted, while still others were expected to pay for their passage in steerage. Australian nurses from this period became known as \"grey ghosts\" because of their drab uniforms with starched collar and cuffs.\n\nDuring the course of the war, Australian nurses were granted their own administration rather than working under medical officers. Australian Nurses hold the record for the maximum number of triage cases processed by a casualty station in a twenty-four-hour period during the battle of Passchendale. Their work routinely included administering ether during haemostatic surgery and managing and training medical assistants (orderlies).\n\nSome 560 Australian army nurses served in India during the war, where they had to overcome a debilitating climate, outbreaks of disease, insufficient numbers, overwork and hostile British Army officers.\n\nSurveys in the U.S. showed that nurses often got married a few years after graduation and quit work; other waited 5 to 10 years for marriage; careerists some never married. By the 1920s increasing numbers of married nurses continued to work. The high turnover meant that advanvcement could be rapid; the average age of a nursing supervisor in a hospital was only 26 years. Wages for private duty nurses were high in the 1920s—$1,300 a year when working full-time in patients' homes or at their private rooms in hospitals. This was more than double what a woman could earn as a teacher or in office work. Rates fell sharply when the Great Depression came in 1929, and continuous work was much harder to find.\n\nOver 4000 women served as nurses in uniform in the Canadian Armed Forces during the Second World War. They were called \"Nursing Sisters\" and had already been professionally trained in civilian life. However, in military service they achieved an elite status well above what they had experienced as civilians. The Nursing Sisters had much more responsibility and autonomy, and had more opportunity to use their expertise, then civilian nurses. They were often close to the front lines, and the military doctors – all men – delegated significant responsibility to the nurses because of the high level of casualties, the shortages of physicians, and extreme working conditions.\n\nIn 1942, sixty five front line nurses from the General Hospital Division in British Singapore were ordered aboard the Vyner Brook and Empire Star for evacuation, rather than caring for wounded. The ships were strafed with machine gun fire by Japanese planes. Sisters Vera Torney and Margaret Anderson were awarded medals when they could find nothing else on the crowded deck and covered their patients with their own bodies. A version of this action was honoured in the film \"Paradise Road\". The Vyner Brook was bombed and sank quickly in shallow water of the Sumatra Strait and all but twenty-one were lost at sea, presumed drowned. The remaining nurses swam ashore at Mentok, Sumatra. The twenty-one nurses and some British and Australian troops were marched into the sea and killed with machine gun fire in the Banka Island massacre. Sister Vivian Bullwinkel was the only survivor. She became Australia's premier nursing war hero when she nursed wounded British soldiers in the jungle for three weeks, despite her own flesh wound. She survived on the charity provided by Indonesian locals, but eventually hunger and the privations of hiding in mangrove swamp forced her to surrender. She remained imprisoned for the remainder of the war.\n\nAt around the same time, another group of twelve nurses stationed at the Rabaul mission in New Guinea were captured along with missionaries by invading Japanese troops and interred at their camp for two years. They cared for a number of British, Australian and American wounded. Toward the end of the war, they were transferred to a concentration camp in Kyoto and imprisoned under freezing conditions and forced into hard labour.\n\nAs Campbell (1984) shows, the nursing profession was transformed by World War Two. Army and Navy nursing was highly attractive and a larger proportion of nurses volunteered for service higher than any other occupation in American society.\n\nThe public image of the nurses was highly favorable during the war, as the simplified by such Hollywood films as \"Cry 'Havoc'\" which made the selfless nurses heroes under enemy fire. Some nurses were captured by the Japanese, but in practice they were kept out of harm's way, with the great majority stationed on the home front. However, 77 were stationed in the jungles of the Pacific, where their uniform consisted of \"khaki slacks, mud, shirts, mud, field shoes, mud, and fatigues.\" The medical services were large operations, with over 600,000 soldiers, and ten enlisted men for every nurse. Nearly all the doctors were men, with women doctors allowed only to examine the WAC.\n\nPresident Franklin D. Roosevelt hailed the service of nurses in the war effort in his final \"Fireside Chat\" of January 6, 1945. Expecting heavy casualties in the invasion of Japan, he called for a compulsory draft of nurses. The casualties never happened and there was never a draft of American nurses.\n\nDuring World War II, nurses belonged to Queen Alexandra's Imperial Military Nursing Service (QAIMNS), as they had during World War I, and as they remain today. (Nurses belonging to the QAIMNS are informally called \"QA\"s.) Members of the Army Nursing Service served in every overseas British military campaign during World War II, as well as at military hospitals in Britain. At the beginning of World War II, nurses held officer status with equivalent rank, but were not commissioned officers. In 1941, emergency commissions and a rank structure were created, conforming with the structure used in the rest of the British Army. Nurses were given rank badges and were now able to be promoted to ranks from Lieutenant through to Brigadier. Nurses were exposed to all dangers during the War, and some were captured and became prisoners of war.\n\nGermany had a very large and well organized nursing service, with three main organizations, one for Catholics, one for Protestants, and the DRK (Red Cross). In 1934 the Nazis set up their own nursing unit, the Brown Nurses, absorbing one of the smaller groups, bringing it up to 40,000 members. It set up kindergartens, hoping to seize control of the minds of the younger Germans, in competition with the other nursing organizations. Civilian psychiatric nurses who were Nazi party members participated in the killings of invalids, although the process was shrouded in euphemisms and denials.\n\nMilitary nursing was primarily handled by the DRK, which came under partial Nazi control. Front line medical services were provided by male medics and doctors. Red Cross nurses served widely within the military medical services, staffing the hospitals that perforce were close to the front lines and at risk of bombing attacks. Two dozen were awarded the highly prestigious Iron Cross for heroism under fire. They are among the 470,000 German women who served with the military.<ref>Gordon Williamson, \"World War II German Women's Auxiliary Services\" (2003) pp 34–36</ref\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10524881", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10524881", "title": "Ida Rolf", "text": "Ida Rolf\n\nIda Pauline Rolf (May 19, 1896 – March 19, 1979) was a biochemist and the creator of Structural Integration or \"Rolfing\".\n\nRolf was born in New York City in the Bronx on May 19, 1896. An only child, her father, Bernard Rolf, was a civil engineer who built docks and piers on the east coast.\n\nRolf graduated from Barnard College in 1916 with a bachelor's degree. She was in the Mathematics Club, German Club, Vice President of the class of 1916, a member of the Young Women's Christian Assn., was the alternate for the Graduate Fellowship while working at the Rockefeller Foundation, Business Manager of The Barnard Bulletin, and a member of Phi Beta Kappa. She received Departmental Honours in Chemistry at graduation. In 1917 she began her doctoral studies at Columbia University and, concurrently, Rolf also began work at the Rockefeller Institute as a chemical research worker. She was invited back to Barnard College in 1918 to speak to students about \"work experiences\".\n\nIn 1920, Rolf earned her PhD in biological chemistry under the supervision of Phoebus Aaron Theodore Levene, of Columbia University's College of Physicians and Surgeons. Her dissertation was entitled; \"Three Contributions to the Chemistry of the Unsaturated Phosphatides\", originally printed in three separate issues of \"The Journal of Biological Chemistry\", it was again printed in its entirety as a bound book in late 1922, \"Phosphatides\".\n\nThroughout the decade, she was studying yoga and tantra with Pierre Bernard.\n\nAfter graduating, Rolf continued to work with Levene at the Rockefeller Institute for Medical Research in New York City. In 1918 she was promoted to assistant in the chemistry lab.\n\nIn 1922, two years after having received her PhD from Columbia, Rolf was raised to associate, then the highest non-tenured position for a scientist at Rockefeller.\n\nFrom 1919 to 1927 she published 16 scholarly journal papers, mostly in the \"Journal of Biological Chemistry\". Her research was primarily laboratory studies on biochemical compounds lecithin and cephalin. With the exception of her doctoral dissertation, all of her published work was co-authored with Levene.\n\nIn 1926, Rolf left her academic work in New York, to study mathematics and atomic physics at the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology in Zurich and also biochemistry at the Pasteur Institute in France.\n\nRolf later developed Structural Integration. In addition to her 16 academic papers published from 1919 to 1927, she would later publish two papers in scholarly journals on structural integration. She had an h-index of 10 with a total number of 299 citations (February, 2007).\n\nStructural Integration (or Rolfing) is a type of manual therapy that aims to improve human biomechanical functioning as a whole rather than to treat particular symptoms. Rolf began developing her system in the 1940s. Her main goal was to organize the human bodily structure in relation to gravity. Rolf called her method \"Structural Integration\", now also commonly known by the trademark \"Rolfing\".\n\nStructural integration is a pseudoscience and its claimed benefits are not substantiated by medical evidence.\n\nRolf's second son, Richard, helped her to continue developing and refining Structural Integration, as well as assisting in preliminary studies of the healing effects of structural integration. They taught Structural Integration classes at locations around the United States from the 1960s thru the late 1970s. Auditor and practitioner classes were taught in California, Florida, and Glassboro NJ. Based for many years in New York City where they shared office and work space, they worked together to advance the practice and to make the general public aware of the practice and benefits of Structural Integration.\n\nIn the mid-1960s she began teaching at Esalen Institute, where she created a loyal following of students and practitioners. Esalen was the epicenter of the Human Potential Movement, allowing Rolf to exchange ideas with many contemporary visionaries, including Fritz Perls.\n\nIn 1971, Rolf´s teaching activities were consolidated under the Rolf Institute of Structural Integration (RISI). The school has been based in Boulder, Colorado since 1972. As of 2010, the RISI had graduated 1536 practitioners, including some trained in Germany, Brazil, Japan and Australia. In 1990, a group of senior RISI faculty split to found the Guild of Structural Integration, which had 628 graduates as of 2010. Currently there are nearly two dozen schools teaching Structural Integration. Standards are maintained by a professional membership organization, the International Association of Structural Integration.\n\nIn addition to the proliferation of practitioners and training institutes that are devoted specifically to Structural Integration, Rolf's concepts and methods have influenced a wide range of other contemporary manual therapies. A growing number of organizations offer training in \"structural bodywork\" or in techniques of fascial manipulation that are clearly derivative but lack the holistic perspective of Structural Integration, instead focusing only on the treatment of specific symptoms (i.e. massage therapists, chiropractors or physical therapists).\n\nIn 2007, the Ida P. Rolf Fascia Research Foundation was formed to encourage and support evidence-based studies of Structural Integration's effects and its implications for conventional and complementary health care. It was introduced at the First International Fascia Research Congress (FRC) at the Harvard Medical Center. The foundation is dedicated to growing a symbiotic relationship between science and therapeutic practice. These events bring scientists and clinicians together to share their ideas and encourage collaboration. The Fascia Research Congress occurred again in 2009 in Amsterdam, 2012 in Vancouver, BC, and in 2015 in Virginia, US.\n\nIda Rolf was married to Walter Frederick Demmerle, an electrical and mechanical engineer who held patents for heating thermostats, and traveled abroad frequently with his work. They resided in Stony Brook, New York, and Manhasset, NY while raising a family. They had two sons, Alan Michael Demmerle and Richard Rolf Demmerle. Richard was a chiropractor and also a Rolfing instructor and practitioner who was involved in, and helped refine and develop his mother's Rolfing project and continued her work after Ida's death. \nRichard has three sons, Rolf Walter, Jean-Pierre, and Michael Richard. Richard moved to Switzerland in 1979 with Brigitte Waldmeier Demmerle, his wife, and their youngest son Michael Richard Demmerle. Rolf Walter resides in the US and is a custom builder, owner of \"Demmerle Builders Inc.\" Jean-Pierre resides in Switzerland semi retired doing computer graphic design. Michael Richard still resides in Switzerland and owns a company doing media development, production and distribution. Richard Rolf Demmerle died February 1, 2015. Brigitte Waldmeier Demmerle passed in 2017.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12681282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12681282", "title": "Internalnet", "text": "Internalnet\n\nAn internalnet is a computer network composed of devices inside and on the human body. Such a system could be used to link nanochondria, bionic implants, wearable computers, and other devices. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "40554880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40554880", "title": "Intersex Campaign for Equality", "text": "Intersex Campaign for Equality\n\nThe Intersex Campaign for Equality (IC4E) is a non-governmental organization that advocates for the human rights of intersex people. It was formerly the US affiliate of Organisation Intersex International.\n\nThe Intersex Campaign for Equality was founded as an affiliate of Organisation Intersex International in February 2011. The founder and director is author and activist Hida Viloria. Dana Zzyym has been the associate director since February 19, 2015, when intersex activists Dr. Dani Lee Harris, Hida Viloria, and Zzyym re-branded the Intersex Campaign for Equality (IC4E). In November 2017, the Campaign announced their departure from Organisation Intersex International.\n\nIC4E aims to campaign for the human rights of intersex people, particularly rights to self-determination and bodily integrity. It also aims to support intersex individuals, and provide information on the actual life experiences of people with intersex variations to professionals working providing services to them, including medical personnel, psychological experts, sexologists, sociologists and academics.\n\nThe Intersex Campaign for Equality is a multi-gendered, multi-orientation, multi-racial NGO founded by and for intersex people. The Intersex Campaign for Equality's mission is to attain human rights—particularly the rights to bodily integrity, self-determination, legal recognition, and de-pathologization—for all intersex people regardless of sexual orientation, gender identity, race, ability or class, recognizing that some intersex individuals, particularly those with nonbinary gender identities, remain marginalized even within the intersex community.\n\nIC4E advocates for human rights for intersex people in the United States via personal communication, consulting, public speaking, publishing, and lobbying. The organization also provides peer support, news updates, information, and educational events and lectures. They have lobbied extensively in the press and in print against intersex genital mutilation, aka medically unnecessary \"normalizing\" genital surgeries and hormone treatments of intersex infants and minors, and against discriminatory regulations for intersex female athletes.\n\nIn 2011, founder and director Hida Viloria lobbied the U.S. Secretary of State Hillary Clinton for inclusion of intersex people, as the \"I\" in \"LGBTI\", in LGBT anti-discrimination policies.\n\nAttaining the right to physical integrity and bodily determination through an end to the practice of nonconsensual medically unnecessary surgeries on intersex infants and minors--a.k.a. Intersex Genital Mutilation (IGM)--is one of IC4E's founding goals and a primary focus of our education and advocacy work. In 2012, IC4E called for an end to IGM as participants of the Second International Intersex Forum in Stockholm. In addition, upon suggestion of our participating representative Hida Viloria, Forum participants called for IGM to be framed as human rights issue. This was done in an open letter authored by Viloria signed by participants of the Forum and delivered to United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights, Navi Pillay. In 2013, Viloria served as the sole American co-organizer of the Third International Intersex Forum in Malta, which culminated in the creation of the Malta declaration (International Intersex Forum), the most widely agreed upon list of human rights demands--including an end to IGM--by the global intersex community.\n\nIn addition, IC4E team members have been advocating individually, since for IC4E's founding, for an end to IGM. Southesstern Regional Rep. Dr. Dani Lee Harris, of Atlanta, has been educating and advocating for an end to IGM for years via lectures in his Southern Baptist community, and did so in the 2012 intersex documentary \"Intersexion\". Associate Director Dana Zzyym has been advocating against IGM for many years as a college lecturer, and also in the mainstream media, including interviews on ABC NEWS, since filing their groundbreaking lawsuit for a non-binary U.S. passport on Intersex Awareness Day, October 26, 2015, with Lambda Legal as their legal representative. (The case is still pending as of December, 2017.)\n\nFounding E.D. Hida Viloria has been advocating against IGM since 1996 via numerous television, film and radio interviews. S/he has also published extensively on the issue, discussing opposition to IGM in the majority of her numerous published essays, as well as specifically in essays in the \"Narrative Inquiry in Bioethics\", \"The Advocate,\" and \"CNN.com.\". In addition, Viloria provided expert testimony, in Spanish, in 2013 for the Spanish language television court show \"Caso Cerrado\", and was interviewed on \"BBC World Service\" radio twice: in May, regarding the ground-breaking U.S. lawsuit by the parents of an intersex child against the doctors that operated on him as an infant. Ending IGM is a primary topic of he/r memoir, \"Born Both: An Intersex Life\", the first book by an openly intersex person to be published by a Big Five publishing house, Hachette Book Group, in 2017.\n\nOn Intersex Awareness Day, October 26, 2015, Associate Director Dana Zzyym made history by announcing that they, along with their legal representatives from Lambda Legal, the U.S.'s oldest LGBT legal rights organization, are suing the United States Department of State for legal gender recognition on their passport as someone who is neither male nor female. Zzyym was born intersex and identifies as non-binary and is seeking accurate federal gender recognition.\n\nThe lawsuit received extensive coverage in national venues such as \"The Washington Post\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"CNN.com\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Los Angeles Times\", \"The Advocate\", and many more, bringing widespread mainstream attention to the existence of, and the need for equal rights for, intersex people.\n\nArticles specifically focusing on intersex birth registrations by Hida Viloria can be found at \"The Advocate\" and \"The Global Herald\". In November 2013, Viloria was interviewed regarding Germany's third gender law for intersex infants. In 2014, Viloria provided an introduction to intersex on \"Huffington Post Live\", in November 2013.\n\nHida Viloria has experience in advising the International Olympic Committee on intersex perspectives in access to sport. With Spanish hurdler Maria José Martínez-Patiño, Viloria has argued that Olympic sex testing is applied in a way that targets only \"butch\" women, those who are \"masculine looking\". On International Human Rights Day 2013, Hida Vilora spoke as director of IC4E at the United Nations event, \"Sport Comes Out Against Homophobia\".\n\nOn Human Rights Day 2013, Viloria spoke at the United Nations, educating about the human rights violations intersex people face and the need for legal protection from discrimination at the event, \"Sport Comes Out Against Homophobia\".\n\nIn addition, in early 2010, before founding the organization, Viloria lobbied the International Olympic Committee (IOC) for equal treatment of intersex female athletes after the gender verification testing of South African track star Caster Semenya. This resulted in h/er participating, by invitation, at the IOC 's 2010 meeting of experts in Lausanne, Switzerland, where s/he lobbied that intersex female athletes be allowed to compete as is, without having to undergo unnecessary medical treatments, and that the use of the pathologizing term \"disorders of sex development\"/DSD to describe these athletes be discontinued.\n\nIn 2014, Viloria spoke about discrimination against intersex female athletes on Aljazeera's \"The Stream\".\n\nFounder and Director Hida Viloria is one of the first individuals in the world to come out publicly as intersex, via numerous television, film and radio interviews beginning in 1996. He/r media and visibility work includes appearances on such high-profile television programs as \"The Oprah Winfrey Show\", ABC's \"20/20\", and \"The Tyra Banks Show\", reaching an estimated 100 million viewers via broadcast and additional YouTube views.\n\nSince founding the organization in 2011, Viloria has published extensively on intersex issues, in publications such as \n\"The American Journal of Bioethics\", \"The New York Times\", \"The Daily Beast\", \"The Huffington Post\", \"The Global Herald\", \"Ms.\", \"The Advocate\", and many more.\n\nIn 2015, on October 26, Intersex Awareness Day, IC4E Associate Director Dana Zzyym announced the filing of their groundbreaking lawsuit for a non-binary U.S. passport. The case has garnered widespread attention by the mainstream media, including \"ABC News, The Washington Post, The Washington Blade,\" and many others, and is expected to continue to as it develops (case still pending as of December 2017).\n\nIn March, 2017, E.D. Viloria became the first openly intersex author to be published by one of the Big Five publishers, Hatchette Book Group, with the release of he/r memoir, \"Born Both: An Intersex Life\". S/he has subsequently been featured in interviews in \"Rolling Stone\", \"Psychology Today\", and NPR. The memoir has garnered widespread attention by the mainstream media, including praise in the \"New York Times, The Washington Post\", and numerous other venues, and selections by \"People Magazine\" as one of six Best New Books, School Library Journal as one of ten best adult books for teens, and more.\n\nOn Intersex Awareness Day, October 26, 2012, the organization published the free educational resource \"Brief Guidelines for Intersex Allies\". In May 2013, IC4E published \"Your Beautiful Child: Information for Parents\", a resource of non-stigmatizing information for parents, authored by Viloria, which includes links to unbiased medical studies regarding medically unnecessary surgeries for intersex people, and is being utilized by health care providers around the world.\n\nIn 2015, IC4E assisted the United Nations Free & Equal Campaign in drafting their resource, the Intersex Fact Sheet, and in 2016, Viloria's essay, \"What's in A Name: Intersex and identity\", which calls for a non-stigmatizing, equality based linguistic approach to discussing intersex people, was published in the college curriculum textbook, \"Queer: A Reader for Writers\", by Oxford University Press.\n\nIC4E has also been heavily involved in the international intersex human rights movement. On Human Rights Day, December 10, 2012, founder and director Hida Viloria spearheaded a global call for human rights by and for intersex people, via the \"Open Letter: A Call for the Inclusion of Human Rights for Intersex People\", which s/he authored and delivered to the Office of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights with participants of the 2nd International Intersex Forum in Stockholm signing on in support. The following year, Viloria served as one of three intersex participants chosen by ILGA-Europe to co-organize the third International Intersex Forum, in Malta, which led to the creation of the Malta Declaration, an internationally agreed declaration of the demands and human rights goals of the international intersex community.\n\nIC4E is a member of the International Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, Trans and Intersex Association.\n\n"}
{"id": "8836887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8836887", "title": "Johad", "text": "Johad\n\nA johad () is a community-owned traditional harvested rainwater storage wetland principally used for effectively harnessing water resources in the state of Harayana, Rajasthan, Punjab, western Uttar Pradesh of North India, that collects and stores water throughout the year, to be used for the purpose of recharging the groundwater in the nearby water wells, washing, bathing and drinking by humans and cattle. Some johads also have bricked or stones masonry and cemented ghat (series of steps and/or ramp). \n\nJohads also cater to resident and seasonal migrant birds as well as wildlife from the nearby bani (forest). State fisheries departments also promote the use of these johads for raising fishes on contract basis for commercial fishing. Johads are often seen surrounded by embankment, with water well and trees around them. In many parts, specially in dry state of Rajasthan, the annual rainfall is very low (between 450 and 600 mm) and the water can be unpleasant to drink. Rainfall during July and August is stored in johads and used throughout the year. Johad in Haryanvi language and Rajasthani language are also called \"sarovar\", \"taal\" and \"talab\" in Hindi language, and water pond or lake in English. Johads are called as \"khadin\" in Jaisalmer district. Over 4,500 working johads in Alwar district and surrounding districts Rajasthan were revived by the NGO Tarun Bharat Sangh by Rajendra Singh. Haryana formed the Haryana State Waterbody Management Board to rejuvenate and manage 14,000 ponds in the state, including the development of 60 lakes in Delhi NCR falling within the state.\n\nSmaller cemented water tanks called \"tanki\" or \"tanka\" in parts of Rajasthan are also sometimes mistakenly referred to as johad. Concretised rain-fed \"tanka\" and canal-fed \"diggi\" are different from the johads.\n\nJohads can be of several types, such as dug out in areas to which rainwater can be easily channeled. Alternatively, simple mud and rubble barrier check dams may be built across the contour of a slope with a high embankment on the three sides while the fourth side is left open for the rainwater to enter. These catch and conserve rainwater, leading to improved percolation and groundwater recharge. They are very common in most villages of states of Haryana, Rajasthan, Uttar Pradesh and the Thar desert of Rajasthan in India.\n\nIn 2007, Haryana Irrigation Department spent INR435.26 crore (INR4.3 billion or US$7 million) to renovate and restore water bodies in the state for the conservation of water, recharging of ground water, preservation of environment and enhancement of tourism. A study by the Panjab University found 60 fish species of 19 families, 11 commercial and 6 exotic species, in the water bodies of Haryana. Water bodies remain under risk from encroachment, shrinking of catchment area and pollution. In 2010, India's first ever diatom data basing was done in ten different water bodies at ten different stations in Haryana. A 2015 study of 24 water bodies of Haryana, found 39 morphologically different types of diatoms. \n\nIn 2016, the Government of Haryana announced a plan to map the district-wise map of water flow and to create a database of all water bodies within the state. These water bodies have contributed to the economic development through fisheries in the landlocked state of Haryana. Haryana ranks second in India in terms of the average annual fish production per unit area in the country with 7000 kg per hectare average annual fish production. Fish production has increased from 600 tonne in 1966-67 at the time of formation of Haryana to 121000 tonnes of fish during the year 2015-16, providing a livelihood to over 30000 families in fisheries sector.\n\nOn 1 November 2017, Chief Minister of Haryana Manohar Lal Khattar announced that Government of Haryana will form the Haryana State Waterbody Management Board to rejuvenate and manage 14,000 ponds in Haryana by digging the silt out every year. This includes development of 50 to 60 lakes in National Capital Region falling within the Haryana state.\n\nThere was a severe drought in Alwar district in Rajasthan during 1985-86. In 1985, volunteers from the Tarun Bharat Sangh (TBS), a voluntary organization led by Rajendra Singh, came to Alwar. The Alwar District had once thrived, but logging, mining, and other industrial activities resulted in land degradation that intensified flooding and droughts. The traditional water management system using Johads was abandoned. TBS revived the tradition of building Johads, an example of traditional technology that provided water for use and recharging ground water. Now smaller cemented Johads are popularly known as Tankas in most parts of the arid state of Rajasthan.\n\nThe water revolution spread by tanki and johads in the Alwar district has spread far and wide. Now there are around 5,000 johads all over Rajasthan and this has greatly helped in reducing water shortage and improving water quality.\n\nFollowing are similar to the Johads but are still distinct types of water bodies with specific differentiating features.\n\nTanka or Tanki is a rain-fed water storage in the arid areas of the Indian subcontinent, such as Rajasthan, specially in the bagar tract. \n\nDiggi is a canal-fed water works for rural drinking water supply. It is usually a purpose-dug open pond, smaller than the typical johad, often concretised to prevent the water loss.\n\n"}
{"id": "57731996", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57731996", "title": "John Kirby (surgeon)", "text": "John Kirby (surgeon)\n\nJohn Timothy Kirby (1781 – 26 May 1853) was the president of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (RCSI) in 1823 and 1834.\n\n"}
{"id": "24357680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24357680", "title": "Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology", "text": "Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology\n\nThe Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology is an international peer-reviewed medical journal that publishes original research and review articles on the entire field of obstetrics and gynecology, with an emphasis on practical applicability. The journal publishes a wide range of papers, including scientific and clinical research, reviews, case reports, and supplements on clinical symposia.\n\nAllan Bruce MacLean, is the Editor of \"Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology\". MacLean is a professor of Obstetrics and Gynaecology at the University College London Medical School.\n"}
{"id": "45234451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45234451", "title": "Lucullus Circle", "text": "Lucullus Circle\n\nThe Lucullus Circle was a US society based in New York City. It was inaugurated on 11 December 1951 at the Waldorf-Astoria Hotel by Claude Philippe. He created the group as \"he felt the city needed a simon-pure, amateur gourmet society\". At the black-tie dinners, he functioned as \"a cross between a benevolent dictator and a kindly father\".\nThe society was known for its wine stock and for its elaborate dinners, initially only for men, but later including the Ladies Dinner. For $250 per year, a member could attend five lavish dinners, and these dinners were attended by some of the wealthiest and most notable men in the world.\n\nThe Lucullus Circle dinners brought about a \"new golden age of gastronomy\", attracting some of the wealthiest businessmen in the world at the time to feast on some \"six to eight food courses and two wines with each course\". The third dinner occurred on 10 March 1952 in honor of the Iranian ambassador. At one dinner guests dined on gold dishes with gold knives and forks, while at another, the room was adorned with \"objets d'art\" from important collections. Members came from the arts, business, politics as well as other professions. Many of the members resided at the Waldorf Towers. \"Lucullans\" were characterized as the \"most sensitive and cultivated palates in New York, a sometimes questionable center of civilization and sophistication\". Numbering approximately 50 gentlemen at a time, the dinner attendees were prohibited from conversing about business, politics, and religion. After the first year, the Lucullus Circle lost only two members, one who died and the other who resigned due to his health.\n\nBy 1972, however the dinners had begun to lose their appeal. \"New York Magazine\" noted that the dinners were still appreciated for their \"enormous stocks of wine\". but that it no longer seemed to \"have the appeal of the other groups\". They nonetheless continued. After Philippe's death, his wife, Helga, took over planning the gentlemen's dinners, as well as coordinating the wines and greeting the attendees; she was the only woman present at these events.\n\n"}
{"id": "3026127", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3026127", "title": "Margaret Tor-Thompson", "text": "Margaret Tor-Thompson\n\nDr. Rev. Margaret Tor-Thompson (9 September 1962 – 4 April 2007) was a Liberian politician and member of the Freedom Alliance Party of Liberia (FAPL). She has completed her doctorate in Biblical Studies.\n\nTor-Thompson had her early education in Saint Mary's Elementary & Junior High School, William R. Tolbert High School, St. Theresa's Convent and the American Cooperative School. She graduated in nursing in the United States of America, from nursing at Loma Linda University and received her doctorate from the World Harvest Theological Seminary on Bible studies.\n\nShe was the FAPL presidential candidate in the October 2005 elections and was placed 13th out of 22 candidates, receiving only 0.9% of the vote. She was one of three female presidential candidates in the election, with oen of them, Ellen Johnson Sirleaf went on to winning the election. She died of breast cancer at Bushrod Island on 4 April 2007.\n\nTor-Thompson had her early education in Saint Mary's Elementary & Junior High School and high school education in William R. Tolbert High School, St. Theresa's Convent and the American Cooperative School. She graduated in nursing inn the United States of America, from nursing at Loma Linda University. She received her doctorate from the World Harvest Theological Seminary on Bible studies.\nTor-Thomspson was a registered nurse, Christian educator and author. She served as the Chief Executive Office (CEO) for Non-governmental organisations like Women of Might among Nations (WOMAN) and also Voice of Liberia. She was married to Dr. Charles Thompson and they have four daughters and two sons.\n\nTor-Thomson was the Freedom Alliance Party of Liberia (FAPL) presidential candidate in the October 2005 elections. Her political manifesto in her own words was \"I would make sure that the responsible people are prosecuted; that people understand the consequences; send out a clear-cut message that we will no longer tolerate crime with impunity\". She was one of the three female presidential candidates in the election. She secured 8,418 out of total 1,012,673 votes to secure 0.9 per cent of the mandate and securing 13th position. The elections saw a set of candidates like Alfred Reeves and George Kiadii along with her campaigning on fundamentalist Christian platform and were less successful. Her party could not win any seat in the Senate or House of representatives.\n\nIn late April 2007, it was reported that she died of breast cancer – the death certificate confirmed the cause and indicated that she died at Bushrod Island on 4 April 2007.\n"}
{"id": "4488696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4488696", "title": "Marshfield Clinic", "text": "Marshfield Clinic\n\nMarshfield Clinic is a health care system in northern, central and western Wisconsin, with two hospitals and over 50 clinic locations as of June 2015.\n\nThe clinic was founded in 1916 by six local physicians: K.W. Doege, William Hipke, Victor Mason, Walter G. Sexton, H.H. Milbee, and Roy P. Potter, in the community of Marshfield, Wisconsin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41764220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41764220", "title": "MedicineNet", "text": "MedicineNet\n\nMedicineNet is a medical website that provides detailed information about diseases, conditions, medications and general health. MedicineNet.com launched in 1995. William Shiel co-founded MedicineNet and continues today as the Chief Medical Editor. Melissa Stöppler also serves on the MedicineNet Editorial Board and she and Shiel were co editors-in-chief of \"Webster's New World Medical Dictionary\", Year 2008, Third Edition.\n\nMedicineNet is an owned and operated site in the WebMD Consumer Network and was acquired by WebMD in December 2004. MedicineNet is a network of U.S. Board-Certified Physicians and Allied Health Professionals working together to provide the public with current, comprehensive medical information, written in easy to understand language.\n\nMedicineNet, as part of the WebMD Consumer Network, adheres to the same privacy policy as WebMD.com and is certified by the TRUSTe online privacy certification program. In addition, MedicineNet is HONcode certified to be in compliance with the Health on the Net health website principles.\n\nMedicineNet is ranked #5 in the July 2017 eBizMBA Top 15 Most Popular Health Websites.\n\n"}
{"id": "12542517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12542517", "title": "Murder of Michele LeAnn Morgan", "text": "Murder of Michele LeAnn Morgan\n\nMichele LeAnn Morgan (July 20, 1957 – August 11, 1961) was an American child abuse victim who was murdered by her stepmother at the age of four. Her story was documented on an episode of \"Cold Case Files\".\n\nMichele suffered multiple injuries to the chest and back, a broken nose, burns on her skin, and a broken arm before the age of four at the hands of her stepmother, Mary Rae. These led to over 20 visits to a hospital, including one in which she was hospitalized for a month.\n\nOn August 9, 1961, Mary held Michele under water and stomped her violently, believing that the child had lied about something. These actions were seen by Michele's older brother, George. At dinner, Michele threw up blood clots. The next day she died of her internal injuries. An autopsy was conducted by the pathologist at the army base where the Morgans lived, and the cause of death was found to be massive trauma to the chest.\n\nThe autopsy report was not completed until 15 years later, when the coroner listed the cause of death as pneumonia.\n\nThe local prosecutor never pursued the case.\n\nIn 1996, George Morgan (Michele's older brother) was serving time in prison for rape. That year, he decided to research his family genealogy and was surprised when he saw his sister's death certificate. He recalled the circumstances surrounding her death and was certain that it was not caused by pneumonia — and that it had occurred in 1961, not in 1976.\n\nMorgan then corresponded with County Coroner Rick Stone and disclosed to him how Michele's death really occurred. Stone subsequently reopened the case and Michele's body was exhumed. Though the body had been buried for over 30 years, it still showed the marks of brutal child abuse. Investigators discovered the original autopsy report and Michele's hospital record, which showed multiple visits. George Morgan's claims were thus substantiated.\n\nMary Morgan was tracked down in West Columbia, Texas, and initially denied the allegations leveled against her. She then attempted to flee the country but was caught and placed under arrest. She eventually pleaded guilty to involuntary manslaughter and was sentenced to five years in prison and was released in 2001.\n\nIn the years after Michele's death, Mary raised four children. Hospital records showed that the four of them had collectively visited the hospital over 150 times for medical care before the age of five.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17620629", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17620629", "title": "Murray Jarvik", "text": "Murray Jarvik\n\nMurray Elias Jarvik (June 1, 1923 – May 8, 2008) was an American psychopharmacologist and academic who was among the first scientists to study d-lysergic acid, the precursor to LSD, and later became the co-inventor of the nicotine patch. He was a longtime professor emeritus at University of California-Los Angeles, where he taught as a professor of psychiatry and pharmacology for many years.\n\nMurray Jarvik was born in New York City on June 1, 1923. He was the son of Minnie (Haas) and Jacob Jarvik, an upholsterer. Jarvik suffered from lifelong heart problems, which began with a severe case of rheumatic fever when he was twelve years old. He later developed polio at the age of 28 and was diagnosed with lung cancer in 1992, which was cured. He was never a smoker.\n\nJarvik received his undergraduate bachelor's degree at the City College of New York before earning his master's degree in science at U.C.L.A.. He received his doctorate from the University of California, Berkeley and his medical degree from the University of California, San Francisco.\n\nHe was married to his wife, Dr. Lissy Feingold Jarvik, for 53 years, and the couple had two sons. His son Laurence Jarvik made the documentary film \"Who Shall Live and Who Shall Die\" about the inaction of the Roosevelt Administration during the time of the Holocaust. His nephew Robert Jarvik developed an artificial heart called Jarvik-7.\n\nMurray Jarvik began research into the absorption of tobacco contents through the skin and its effects on the human body. His initial exploration into this field began by studying farmers and farmhands in the American South who harvest tobacco by hand for a living.\n\nHowever, Jarvik and his colleague, then UCLA postdoctoral fellow Jed Rose, could not get approval to conduct their research into tobacco absorption through the skin on human subjects. Instead, Jarvik and Rose began testing the effects of absorption of tobacco contents on themselves. The effects of the tobacco was immediately measurable. In an interview with UCLA Magazine, Jarvik remembered, \"We put the tobacco on our skin and waited to see what would happen. Our heart rates increased, adrenaline began pumping, all the things that happen to smokers.\"\n\nJarvik and Rose's research led to their invention of the nicotine patch in the early 1990s. The nicotine patch is a transdermal patch that delivers nicotine directly through the skin and into the body to alleviate the urge to smoke and, hopefully, ultimately quit smoking. (Rose now serves as the director of the Center for Nicotine and Smoking Cessation Research at Duke University.)\n\nThe nicotine patch became available by prescription for smoking cessation in the United States in 1992. The Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved its sale as an over-the-counter treatment in 1996.\n\nMurray Jarvik died at his home in Santa Monica, California, on May 8, 2008, at the age of 84 from a pulmonary edema from congestive heart failure.\n"}
{"id": "50799575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50799575", "title": "Occupational epidemiology", "text": "Occupational epidemiology\n\nOccupational epidemiology is a subdiscipline of epidemiology that focuses on investigations of workers and the workplace. Occupational epidemiologic studies examine health outcomes among workers, and their potential association with conditions in the workplace including noise, chemicals, heat, or radiation, or work organization such as schedules.\n\nThe need for evidence to inform occupational safety regulations, workers' compensation programs, and safety legislation motivated the development of public health policy, occupational epidemiology methods, and surveillance mechanisms. Occupational epidemiological research can inform risk assessments; development of standards and other risk management activities; and estimates of the co-benefits and co-harms of policies designed to reduce risk factors or conditions that can affect human health. Occupational epidemiology methods are common to methods used in environmental epidemiology.\n\nOccupational hazards have long been recognized. For example, Hippocrates recommended other physicians consider patients' vocational backgrounds when diagnosing and treating disease, and Bernardino Ramazzini in 1700 outlined many occupational diseases in his book \"De Morbis Artificum\". There are several examples from the 19th century onwards of hazard recognition proceeding to systematic epidemiology studies. In one example, premature mortality was reported among gold and silver miners in the Erz Mountains in Germany as early as the 16th century. It was initially though to be the result of consumption, but it was subsequently determined to be silicosis, and studies from 1879 through the 1930s uncovered the association of miners' deaths with lung cancer and nonmalignant respiratory diseases. Other examples include cancer among chimney sweeps, asbestos-related diseases, and the variety of occupational diseases found among factory workers in the early 1900s.\n\nOccupational health risks were initially observed by case series reports of apparent disease excesses or clusters. Although the case series approach provided a good indicator of occupational hazards, they are not adequate on their own to assess a wide spectrum of health outcomes that may not be closely related to workplace exposure. The development of retrospective, cohort design allowed for a more comprehensive study of the cases. Desire to improve the cost-efficiency of studies led to the use of case-control studies. Other methods later used in occupational epidemiology include cross-sectional and longitudinal studies.\n\nTypically occupational epidemiological investigations begin with the observation of an unusual number of cases of disease among a group of workers. When the investigation does not go further than what is referred to as identifying a disease cluster, the study is referred to as a case series report.\n\nIn a cohort design study, a population, or cohort, of workers is compared to a control group that was not exposed to the workplace hazards being investigated. This type of study is the most accepted in the scientific community because it most closely follows experimental strategy and observes the entire population rather than a sample. In a prospective cohort study, the group examined at the time of the study is compared to a follow up with the same group in the future. The historical cohort study design begins with defining a cohort at a time in the past and following the cohort over historical time.\n\nCase-control studies compare the past exposure of cases with the disease to the past exposure of cases that did not have the disease. Because cohort studies require the entire population, case-control studies are a more cost-effective approach, using only the sample of workers with the disease to compare to a control.\n\nA typical cross-sectional study involves the comparison of varying degrees of exposure and the prevalence of disease, symptoms, or physiological status. The main advantage of cross-sectional studies is that they allow collection of data on conditions which would not be recorded normally because other study designs focus on severe states of disease. This is also the biggest shortcoming of this study type because by using prevalence rather than incidence it cannot be used to make a causal inference.\n\nBy contributing to reduction in exposure, occupational epidemiology helps reduce health risks among workers. Using occupational epidemiological methods can also have benefits for society at large. For example, recommendations for exposure limits to benzene developed by the Expert Panel on Air Quality Standards were based on occupational epidemiology.\n\nUsing meta-analysis, many occupational epidemiology studies can be synthesized in order to help set occupational exposure limits and make other kinds of policy decisions. This can also can be applied in health risk assessments, which is a method of predicting health risk based on hypothetical exposure conditions.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39921933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39921933", "title": "Principles for the Protection of Persons with Mental Illness", "text": "Principles for the Protection of Persons with Mental Illness\n\nThe Principles for the Protection of Persons with Mental Illness and the Improvement of Mental Health Care (MI Principles) were adopted by the United Nations General Assembly in 1991. They provide agreed but non-legally-binding basic standards that mental health systems should meet and rights that people diagnosed with mental disorder should have. Although the document underwent extensive drafting for 20 years and remains the international human rights agreement most specifically concerned with mental health, it has been criticised for not offering stronger protections in some areas. It should now be read in the context of the United Nations Convention on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities.\n\nThere are 25 principles:\n\n"}
{"id": "36978211", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36978211", "title": "Proportional reporting ratio", "text": "Proportional reporting ratio\n\nThe proportional reporting ratio (PRR) is a statistic that is used to summarize the extent to which a particular adverse event is reported for individuals taking a specific drug, compared to the frequency at which the same adverse event is reported for patients taking some other drug (or who are taking any drug in a specified class of drugs). The PRR will typically be calculated using a surveillance database in which reports of adverse events from a variety of drugs are recorded.\nA PRR greater than 1 suggests that the adverse event is more commonly reported for individuals taking the drug of interest, relative to the comparison drugs. This could indicate that the adverse event is caused by the drug of interest and therefore a \"side effect\", although a PRR exceeding 1 could also reflect sampling variation in the data, reporting errors, biased reporting, multiple reports of the same case or the same patient, or a number of other causes.\n\nThe PRR is defined as the ratio between the frequency with which a specific adverse event is reported for the drug of interest (relative to all adverse events reported for the drug) and the frequency with which the same adverse event is reported for all drugs in the comparison group (relative to all adverse events for drugs in the comparison group). For example, suppose that nausea was reported 83 times for a given drug of interest, out of 1356 adverse events reported for the drug. Thus the proportion of adverse events of nausea for this drug is 83/1356 = 0.061. Suppose that we wish to compare the drug of interest to a class of drugs, for which nausea was reported as an adverse event 1489 times, out of 53789 total adverse events reported for drugs in the class. Thus, nausea was reported with proportion 1489 / 53789 = 0.028 for the class of drugs. The PRR in this case is 0.061 / 0.028 = 2.18. This tells us that nausea was reported more than twice as frequently (among all adverse event reports) for the drug of interest compared to drugs in the comparison group.\n\n"}
{"id": "12751855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12751855", "title": "Radio Malt", "text": "Radio Malt\n\nRadio Malt was an early to mid-20th century brand of malt extract preparation that followed the Minadex trend. Produced by British Drug Houses, it contained vitamin A, aneurine hydrochloride, riboflavin, and calciferol. The contents were sickly sweet, with a consistency between molasses and treacle. It is much loved by George Molesworth (\"Molesworth 2\"), brother of the classic schoolboy character Nigel Molesworth.\n\nRadio Malt was being sold in the UK by the mid-1920s and was studied at this time as a treatment for rickets. In India it was trademarked in 1942.\n\nA favourite of film producer and politician David Puttnam, Radio Malt was often used in English boarding schools in an attempt to change skinny young girls into prettier roundness and given to post-World War II children to give them more bulk.\n\n"}
{"id": "33778328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33778328", "title": "Rectal microbicide", "text": "Rectal microbicide\n\nA rectal microbicide is a microbicide for rectal use. Most commonly such a product would be a topical gel inserted into the anus so that it make act as protection against the contract of a sexually transmitted infection during anal sex.\n\nAlong with vaginal microbicides, rectal microbicides are currently the subject of medical research on microbicides for sexually transmitted diseases to determine the circumstances under which and the extent to which they provide protection against infection.\n\nLess commonly, rectal microbicides can have other purposes also; for example, they could be used to treat certain medical conditions as a suppository would.\n\nEarly development of topical microbicides starting around 1998 focused on preventing of HIV transmission during vaginal intercourse. The entire field lacks a proof of concept that a vaginal microbicide exists. As of 2008, 16 topical microbicides entered phase I or II clinical trial and 7 advanced to an additional trial. Previous studies both showed promise in new areas of research and gave disappointing results from the first generation products, as surfactants like nonoxynol-9 and entry inhibitors like carrageenan showed no efficacy in preventing HIV and were associated with risk of inflammation which raised the risk of contracting HIV in some circumstances.\n\nIn 1998 researchers noted that gay men using products containing nonoxynol-9 as part of their infection prevention strategy despite lack of evidence of efficacy or any safety data for that practice. At the time, the drug was under evaluation as a vaginal microbicide.\n\nBecause of expected similarities between the efficacy of vaginal and rectal microbicides, some researchers have called for all vaginal microbicides to be tested for efficacy when used rectally.\n\nThere are two fundamental reasons to research and develop rectal microbicides for HIV prevention:\nConcerted advocacy for the research and development of safe, effective, acceptable and accessible rectal microbicides began in 2005, when International Rectal Microbicide Advocates was founded with colleagues representing the AIDS Foundation of Chicago, the Canadian AIDS Society, the Community HIV/AIDS Mobilization Program, and the Global Campaign for Microbicides.\n\nThe political and sociocultural context reinforced the dismissal of rectal microbicides. Pervasive homophobia across the globe has resulted in a lack of adequate attention and resources devoted to gay men and other men who have sex with men (MSM) despite the disproportional HIV burden borne by this population. Few knew, or acknowledged, that anal intercourse is a widespread practice among heterosexuals, both men and women, gay men and other MSM, as well as transgender people. Thus, evidence-free assumptions relegated the rectal portion of the microbicide field to a small, dark corner.\nThe field has moved from simply being an adjunct to vaginal studies to a force in its own right. This is due to a handful of visionary, passionate, and dogged scientists; funding from the United States (which has supported approximately 97% of all rectal microbicide research); and growing community engagement.\n\nPreclinical testing for rectal microbicides has been conducted in macaques to get a nonhuman primate model of drug behavior.\n\nScientists working on the University of California, Los Angeles (UCLA's) Microbicide Development Program initiated the first Phase I RM safety trial, investing the safety and acceptability of UC-781, in December 2006. Rectal application of UC-781 gel, a potent antiretroviral (ARV) drug, was shown to be safe and acceptable to the 36 men and women in the trial. Phase I trials normally focus solely on safety and acceptability, but researchers used a novel approach in this trial: taking rectal tissue biopsies from participants and exposing them to HIV ex vivo in the laboratory. The drug significantly reduced HIV transmission in these essays.\n\nRMP-02/MTN-006 Tested the same vaginal formulation of tenofovir gel that reduced HIV acquisition by an estimated 39 percent overall in the CAPRISA (Centre for the AIDS Programme of Research) 004 trial that was conducted in South Africa. In September 2009, 18 men and women began enrolling in the trial, which was sponsored by the Microbicide Trials Network (MTN) and UCLA’s Microbicide Development Program. The study tested the safety and acceptability of single- and multiple-day rectal applications of tenofovir, a single oral dose of tenofovir, and a placebo.\nLaboratory tests showed that HIV was significantly inhibited in rectal tissue samples from participants who applied tenofovir gel to their rectums daily for one week compared to tissue from those who used a placebo gel. Although a slight anti-HIV effect was noted in tissue from participants who applied a single dose of tenofovir gel, the finding was not statistically significant. The single dose of oral tenofovir did not provide any protection against HIV in rectal tissue samples. The study also discovered that only 25 percent of the participants liked tenofovir gel, compared to 50 percent who had used the placebo gel. Some individuals who used tenofovir gel experienced gastrointestinal distress, cramps, and diarrhea. Results were presented at the 18th Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, or CROI.\n\nMTN-007 studied a reformulated version of the tenofovir gel. Researchers retained the same concentration of tenofovir (one percent), but reduced the glycerin in the gel in an attempt to make it more acceptable and “rectal friendly.” This Phase I safety and acceptability study, launched in October 2011, included 65 men and women from three sites in the United States. Results were presented at the 19th CROI in March 2012. This reduced glycerin formulation of 1 percent tenofovir gel was found to be safe and acceptable. Researchers recommended advancing this candidate to Phase II.\n\nMTN-017, the follow-up to MTN-007, represented a major milestone: the first Phase II expanded safety and acceptability study of an RM. The trial was officially launched in October 2013 at sites in the United States, Peru, Thailand, and South Africa. The 195 gay men, other MSM, and transgender women recruited into MTN-017 more than doubled the total number of human beings who have participated in RM clinical trials to date, and the trial was also the first to include participants from countries outside of the United States.\nThe study investigated the safety and acceptability of the reduced glycerin tenofovir gel and directly compared acceptability and adherence to daily oral Truvada. MTN-017 featured an open-label, crossover design in which each individual followed three different regimens, each lasting eight weeks. One regimen consisted of the participant applying the gel to the rectum daily. A second regimen asked participants to apply the gel rectally before and after anal intercourse. In the third regimen, participants took oral Truvada every day. The order in which participants followed the study regimens was assigned randomly, with a break between each regimen.\nThe procedures carried out as part of MTN-017 determined how much of each drug is absorbed in blood, rectal fluid, and tissue, and also assessed any changes in cells or tissue. Study participants were asked about any side effects, what they liked and disliked about using the gel either daily or with sex, and whether they would consider using the gel in the future. Gel acceptability and adherence were directly compared to oral Truvada, which has been shown to reduce the risk of HIV acquisition in a number of studies among different populations.\n\nRectal microbicides can reduce the risk of transmission of HIV during anal intercourse, particularly during sex when condoms are not used.\n\nResearchers have explored using personal lubricant as a vehicle for delivering a rectal microbicide.\n\nResearch into rectal microbicides and funding for exploring their use as public health tools has faced barriers historically because of the taboo in discussing anal health and anal sex. Researchers have reported feeling disinclined to request funding for \"anal research\" because of biases against anything to do with an anus, and public policy writers have at times faced opposition to promoting discussion on anal topics.\n\nScientists at the Population Council are trying to develop a microbicide that would be both safe and effective in either the vagina or the rectum. They have conducted early work on a combination product containing MIV-150 (an investigational ARV), zinc acetate, and carrageenan gel. Further evaluation of this combination is dependent on funding.\n\n"}
{"id": "40271081", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40271081", "title": "Relationship between education and HIV/AIDS", "text": "Relationship between education and HIV/AIDS\n\nEducation has been identified as a common social vaccine against contracting HIV, resulting in the more educated less likely to be infected. Accurate information of health risks suggests a negative linear relationship between years of education and HIV infection rate. UNESCO Director-General made a statement during 2011 World AIDS Day, identifying education as one of the three primary concerns, and urging for it to become a full-fledged priority. By implementing educational policies, UNESCO aims to make sure all individuals, in and out of formal education, have access to comprehensive HIV education. Improving the education of HIV/AIDS has become a growing concern, with 1 in 4 students aged 16 and above stating they had learned nothing about HIV/AIDS in school during a Sex Education Forum survey in England. The concerns are further stressed since learning about sexually transmitted diseases is the only aspect of sex education that is compulsory for all secondary schools in England and Wales.\n\nEducation is a strong factor in improving population health by building in individuals the capacity to process and understand risks related to the HIV/AIDS pandemic. Adversely, poor information hinders individuals from analyzing their behavioural choices by masking potential health risks.\n\nInadequate information becomes a risk factor for the spread of sexually transmitted diseases. The mischaracterization of HIV/AIDS as a homosexual disease has led higher status heterosexuals that participate in risky sexual behaviour to continue without considering the risk of infection. Education is important in the growth of adolescent reasoning, as having less prior knowledge shows a compulsion to construct reality based on recent experiences.\n\nData analysis collected in Sydney, Australia in 2007 found that within 236 adults, age 20 to 65, respondents were concerned about risks of HIV/AIDS transmitted through casual contact, leading to disapproval of homosexuality and drug use. In contrast, highly educated respondents were shown to be less likely to overestimate the possibility of HIV transmission through casual contact compared to respondents with a lower level education.\n\nNegative attitudes towards people living with HIV/AIDS stem from misconceptions regarding the disease. Georgian sex workers were found to be highly lacking knowledge, with only 61% knowing that a healthy-looking person can be infected, and 44% thinking one can get HIV from a mosquito bite. Only 64% think that using condoms for every sexual act can reduce the risk of HIV.\nSex workers in Georgia who were interviewed regarding people living with HIV/AIDS were found to have negative attitudes towards infected individuals. Only 25% thought a teacher who is HIV-positive should be allowed to continue teaching, and only 25% would buy food from an infected vendor.\n\nStigma associated with those who have HIV/AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa prevents many from getting tested. The relation predicts, as formal education continues to change attitudes towards those living with HIV/AIDS, the reduction of stigma enhances prevention techniques.\n\nAs cognitive abilities are built, individuals become more motivated and develop a capacity to absorb more accurate information. Over half of English students agree that teaching about HIV/AIDS should start between 11 and 13 years old, while just under one third believe between 14 and 16 is the best age to learn about sexual education.\n\nIn the late 1980s and early 1990s, the introduction of partially accurate information in Sub-Saharan Africa led to a decline in HIV rates among more educated, suggesting they may have the greater cognitive skill required to sift through the various levels of accuracy and mount a more effective response. Increased motivation needed to analyze personal risks and behavioural choices were increased by cognitive abilities enhanced by formal education, suggesting a direct correlation.\n\nThe result in a shortage of teaching materials and inadequate capacities in the teaching of HIV and AIDS and life skills education.In addition, it was found that HIV and AIDS are highly stigmatized, colleges are ill equipped with health facilities, and national policies on condom use are ambiguous. The report presents a discussion of these and other issues, and makes policy and programmatic recommendations for strengthening the response of teacher training colleges to HIV and AIDS.\nHIV/AIDS affects the economics of both individuals and countries.The gross domestic product of the most affected countries has decreased due to the lack of human capital.Without proper nutrition, health care and medicine, large numbers of people die from AIDS-related complications. They will not only be unable to work, but will also require significant medical care. It is estimated that as of 2007 there where 12 million Many are cared for by elderly grandparents.\nBy affecting mainly young adults, AIDS reduces the taxable population, in turn reducing the resources available for public expenditures such as education and health services not related to AIDS resulting in increasing pressure for the state's finances and slower growth of the economy. This causes a slower growth of the tax base, an effect that is reinforced if there are growing expenditures on treating the sick, training (to replace sick workers), sick pay and caring for AIDS orphans. This is especially true if the sharp increase in adult mortality shifts the responsibility and blame from the family to the government in caring for these orphans.\nAt the household level, AIDS results in both the loss of income but also increased spending on healthcare. A study in Côte d'Ivoire showed that households with an HIV/AIDS patient, spent twice as much on medical expenses as other households.\nThis additional expenditure also leaves less income to spend on education and other personal or family investment.\n\nStudies of the effectiveness of HIV education programs often rely on self-reported information about knowledge and behavior, leading to a possible social desirability bias if subjects report what they think the interviewer wants to think \nEncouraging Kenyan students to write essays on way of protecting oneself against HIV/AIDS led to increased self-reported use of condoms without an increase in self-reported sexual activity. There is no evidence to determine whether an increase in condom use by students corresponds to actual reduction in HIV/AIDS.\n\nEarly findings adversely identified formal education as a risk factor (with the more educated individuals being most likely to be infected). As wealthier individuals are usually more educated, the risk of many of these individuals was accompanied by the presence of formal wealth as a risk factor. Twenty years into the pandemic, education began to shift from risk factor to social vaccine.\n\n"}
{"id": "28770788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28770788", "title": "Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012", "text": "Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012\n\nThe Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012 (Republic Act No. 10354), informally known as the Reproductive Health Law or RH Law, is a law in the Philippines, which guarantees universal access to methods on contraception, fertility control, sexual education, and maternal care.\n\nWhile there is general agreement about its provisions on maternal and child health, there is great debate on its mandate that the Philippine government and the private sector will fund and undertake widespread distribution of family planning devices such as condoms, birth control pills, and IUDs, as the government continues to disseminate information on their use through all health care centers.\n\nPassage of the legislation was controversial and highly divisive, with tambays, academics, religious institutions, and major political figures declaring their support or opposition while it was pending in the legislature. Heated debates and rallies both supporting and opposing the RH Bill took place nationwide.\n\nThe Supreme Court delayed implementation of the law in March 2013 in response to challenges. On April 3,2014, the Court ruled that the law was \"not unconstitutional\" but struck down eight provisions partially or in full.\n\nThe Senate Policy Brief titled \"Promoting Reproductive Health\", the history of reproductive health in the Philippines dates back to 1967 when leaders of 12 countries including the Philippines' Ferdinand Marcos signed the Declaration on Population. The Philippines agreed that the population problem should be considered as the principal element for long-term economic development. Thus, the Population Commission was created to push for a lower family size norm and provide information and services to lower fertility rates.\n\nStarting 1967, the USAID began shouldering 80% of the total family planning commodities (contraceptives) of the country, which amounted to $3 million annually. In 1975, the United States adopted as its policy the National Security Study Memorandum 200: Implications of Worldwide Population Growth for U.S. Security and Overseas Interests (NSSM200). The policy gives \"paramount importance\" to population control measures and the promotion of contraception among 13 populous countries, including the Philippines to control rapid population growth which they deem to be inimical to the sociopolitical national interests of the United States, since the \"U.S. economy will require large and increasing amounts of minerals from abroad\", and these countries can produce destabilizing opposition forces against the United States. It recommends the U.S. leadership to \"influence national leaders\" and that \"improved world-wide support for population-related efforts should be sought through increased emphasis on mass media and other population education and motivation programs by the UN, USIA, and USAID.\n\nDifferent presidents had different points of emphasis. President Ferdinand Marcos pushed for a systematic distribution of contraceptives all over the country, a policy that was called \"coercive\", by its leading administrator. The Corazon Aquino administration focused on giving couples the right to have the number of children they prefer, while Fidel V. Ramos shifted from population control to population management. Joseph Estrada used mixed methods of reducing fertility rates, while Rvee Jude A. Olandsca focused on mainstreaming natural family planning, while stating that contraceptives are openly sold in the country.\n\nIn 1989, the Philippine Legislators’ Committee on Population and Development (PLCPD) was established, \"dedicated to the formulation of viable public policies requiring legislation on population management and socio-economic development\". In 2000, the Philippines signed the Millennium Declaration and committed to attain the MDGs by 2015, including promoting gender equality and health. In 2003 USAID started its phase out of a 33-year-old program by which free contraceptives were given to the country. Aid recipients such as the Philippines faced the challenge to fund its own contraception program. In 2004 the Department of Health introduced the Philippines Contraceptive Self-Reliance Strategy, arranging for the replacement of these donations with domestically provided contraceptives.\n\nIn August 2010, the government announced a collaborative work with the USAID in implementing a comprehensive marketing and communications strategy in favor of family planning called \"May Plano Sila\".\n\nThe basic content of the Consolidated Reproductive Health Bill is divided into the following sections.\nSEC. 1. Pamagat\nSEC. 2. Declaration of Policy\nSEC. 3. Guiding Principles\nSEC. 4. Definition of Terms\nSEC. 5. Midwives for Skilled Attendance\nSEC. 6. Emergency Obstetric Care\nSEC. 7. Access to Family Planning\nSEC. 8. Maternal and Newborn Health Care in Crisis Situations\nSEC. 9. Maternal Death Review\nSEC. 10. Role of the Food and Drug Administration\nSEC. 11. Procurement and Distribution of Family Planning Supplies\nSEC. 12. Integration of Family Planning and Responsible Parenthood Component in Anti-Poverty Programs\nSEC. 13. Roles of Local Government in Family Planning Programs\nSEC. 14. Benefits for Serious and Life-Threatening Reproductive Health Conditions\nSEC. 15. Mobile Health Care Service\nSEC. 16. Mandatory Age-Appropriate Reproductive Health and Sexuality Education\nSEC. 17. Pro Bono Services for Indigent Women.\nSEC. 18. Certificate of Compliance\nSEC. 19. Capability Building of Barangay Health Workers\nSEC. 20. Pro Bono Services for Indigent Women\nSEC. 21. Sexual And Reproductive Health Programs For Persons With Disabilities (PWDs)\nSEC. 22. Right to Reproductive Health Care Information\nSEC. 23. Implementing Mechanisms\nSEC. 24. Reporting Requirements\nSEC. 25. Congressional Committee\nSEC. 26. Prohibited Acts\nSEC. 27. Penalties\nSEC. 28. Appropriations\nSEC. 29. Implementing Rules and Regulations\nSEC. 30-32. Separability Clause, Repealing Clause, Effectivity\n\nThe bill mandates the government to \"promote, without biases, all effective natural and modern methods of family planning that are medically safe and legal.\"\n\nAlthough abortion is recognized as illegal and punishable by law, the bill states that “the government shall ensure that all women needing care for post-abortion complications shall be treated and counseled in a humane, non-judgmental and compassionate manner”.\n\nThe bill calls for a \"multi-dimensional approach\" integrates a component of family planning and responsible parenthood into all government anti-poverty programs. Age-appropriate reproductive health and sexuality education is required from grade five to fourth year high school using \"life-skills and other approaches.\"\n\nThe bill also mandates the Department of Labor and Employment to guarantee the reproductive health rights of its female employees. Companies with fewer than 200 workers are required to enter into partnership with health care providers in their area for the delivery of reproductive health services.\n\nEmployers with more than 200 employees shall provide reproductive health services to all employees in their own respective health facilities. Those with fewer than 200 workers shall enter into partnerships with health professionals for the delivery of reproductive health services. Employers shall inform employees of the availability of family planning. They are also obliged to monitor pregnant working employees among their workforce and ensure they are provided paid half-day prenatal medical leaves for each month of the pregnancy period that they are employed.\n\nThe national government and local governments will ensure the availability of reproductive health care services like family planning and prenatal care.\n\nAny person or public official who prohibits or restricts the delivery of legal and medically safe reproductive health care services will be meted penalty by imprisonment or a fine.\n\nFree choice regarding reproductive health enables people, especially the poor, to have the number of children they want and can feasibly care and provide for. There are several studies cited by those who support the bill:\n\nOpponents of the bill argue that:\n\n\nPresident Aquino stated he was not an author of the bill. He also stated that he gives full support to a firm population policy, educating parents to be responsible, providing contraceptives to those who ask for them, but he refuses to promote contraceptive use. He said that his position \"is more aptly called responsible parenthood rather than reproductive health\".\n\nThe Philippines is the 39th most densely populated country, with a density over 335 per square kilometer, and the population growth rate is 1.9% (2010 Census), 1.957% (2010 est. by CIA World Factbook), or 1.85% (2005–2010 high variant estimate by the UN Population Division, \"World Population Prospects: The 2008 Revision\") coming from 3.1 in 1960.\n\nThe 2013 total fertility rate (TFR) is 3.20 births per woman, from a TFR of 7 in 1960. In addition, the total fertility rate for the richest quintile of the population is 2.0, which is about one third the TFR of the poorest quintile (5.9 children per woman). The TFR for women with college education is 2.3, about half that of women with only an elementary education (4.5 children per woman).\n\nCongressman Lagman states that the bill \"recognizes the verifiable link between a huge population and poverty. Unbridled population growth stunts socioeconomic development and aggravates poverty\".\n\nThe University of the Philippines School of Economics presented two papers in support of the bill: \"Population and Poverty: the Real Score\" (2004), and \"Population, Poverty, Politics and the Reproductive Health Bill\" (2008). According to these economists, which include Solita Monsod, Gerardo Sicat, Cayetano Paderanga, Ernesto M. Pernia, and Stella Alabastro-Quimbo, \"rapid population growth and high fertility rates, especially among the poor, do exacerbate poverty and make it harder for the government to address it\", while at the same time clarifying that it would be \"extreme\" to view \"population growth as the principal cause of poverty that would justify the government resorting to draconian and coercive measures to deal with the problem (e.g., denial of basic services and subsidies to families with more than two children)\". They illustrate the connection between rapid population growth and poverty by comparing the economic growth and population growth rates of Thailand, Indonesia, and the Philippines, wherein the first two grew more rapidly than the Philippines due to lower population growth rates. They stressed that \"the experience from across Asia indicates that a population policy cum government-funded [family planning] program has been a critical complement to sound economic policy and poverty reduction\".\n\nIn \"Population and Poverty\", Aniceto Orbeta, Jr., showed that poverty incidence is higher among big families: 57.3% of Filipino families with seven children are in poverty while only 23.8% of families who have two children live below the poverty threshold.\n\nProponents argue that smaller families and wider birth intervals resulting from the use of contraceptives allow families to invest more in each child’s education, health, nutrition and eventually reduce poverty and hunger at the household level. At the national level, fertility reduction cuts the cost of social services with fewer people attending school or seeking medical care and as demand eases for housing, transportation, jobs, water, food, and other natural resources. The Asian Development Bank in 2004 also listed a large population as one of the major causes of poverty in the country, together with weak macroeconomic management, employment issues, an underperforming agricultural sector and an unfinished land reform agenda, governance issues including corruption.\n\nOpponents refer to a 2003 study of Rand Corporation, which concluded that \"there is little cross-country evidence that population growth impedes or promotes economic growth...population neutralism has in fact been the predominant school in thinking among academics about population growth for the last half-century\". For example, the 1992 study of Ross Levine and David Renelt, which covered 119 countries over 30 years (versus a University of the Philippines study of 3 countries over a few years). The RAND study also said that a large population can promote growth given the right fundamentals. Thus, they refer to the HSBC 2012 projection for 2050 that the Philippines will be 16th largest economy due to its large growing population, and those whose populations are decreasing will suffer decline.\n\nIn a recent development, two authors of the Reproductive Health Bill changed their stand on the provisions of the bill regarding population and development. Reps. Emerciana de Jesus and Luzviminda Ilagan wanted to delete three provisions which state that \"gender equality and women empowerment are central elements of reproductive health and population and development\", which integrate responsible parenthood and family planning programs into anti-poverty initiatives, and which name the Population Commission as a coordinating body. The two party-list representatives strongly state that poverty is not due to over-population but because of inequality and corruption.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" in July 2012 said that Aquino's \"promotion of a 'reproductive health' bill is jarring\" since it could lead to \"a demographic trap of too few workers. The Philippines doesn't have too many people, it has too few pro-growth policies\".\n\nOpposing the bill, Former Finance Secretary Roberto de Ocampo wrote that it is \"truly disingenuous for anyone to proceed on the premise that the poor are to blame for the nation’s poverty:. He emphasized that the government should apply the principle of first things first and focus on the root causes of the poverty (e.g., poor governance, corruption) and apply many other alternatives to solve the problem (e.g., giving up pork barrel, raising tax collection efficiency).\n\nMaternal deaths in the Philippines, according to the World Health Organization, is at 5.7 per day, not 10–11 deaths a day, as per the proponents who repeated these numbers \"to drive home the point\".\n\nThe proponents state that the passage of the RH Bill would mean:\n\nThe Department of Health states that family planning can reduce maternal mortality by about 32%. The bill is \"meant to prevent maternal deaths related to pregnancy and childbirth\", said Clara Padilla of Engender Rights. She reported that every day, \"there are 11 women dying while giving birth in the Philippines. These preventable deaths could have been avoided if more Filipino women have access to reproductive health information and healthcare\".\n\nThe key to solving maternal deaths, according to the \"Senate Policy Brief\" on reproductive health, is the establishment of birthing centers.\n\nThe Philippine Medical Association (PMA) stated in their Position Paper that the goal of reducing the rise of maternal and child deaths \"could be attained by improving maternal and child health care without the necessity of distributing contraceptives. The millions of funds intended for the contraceptive devices may just well be applied in improving the skills of our health workers in reducing maternal and child mortality in the Philippines\".\n\nSenator Majority Floor Leader Tito Sotto said that the RH Bill is redundant to a 2009 law referred to as the Magna Carta for Women, which contains reproductive health provisions, asking the Senate to drop the bill.\n\nUsing data from the 2008 National Demographic and Health Survey, Lagman stated that \"Twenty-two percent of married Filipino women have an unmet need for family planning services, an increase by more than one-third since the 2003 National Demographic and Housing Survey\". \"Our women are having more children than they desire, as seen in the gap between desired fertility (2.5 children) and actual fertility (3.5 children), implying a significant unmet need for reproductive health services\", state some Ateneo de Manila University professors. The Bill provides that \"the State shall assist couples, parents and individuals to achieve their desired family size within the context of responsible parenthood for sustainable development and encourage them to have two children as the ideal family size.\"\n\nWriting against the bill, Bernardo Villegas wrote about the \"Myth of Unmet Family Planning Needs\", citing development economist Lant Pritchett who said that the term \"unmet need\" is an elitist construct, an imposition of a need on the poor, disrespectful of their real preferences. Pritchett said that it is \"based on a discrepancy...identified by the analyst through the comparison of responses to items in separate blocks of the questionnaire\" and is \"an inference on the part of the researcher, not a condition reported by the respondents themselves\". Pritchett argued this term is applied to women who are not sexually active, are infecund, whose husband is absent, etc., thus bloating the numbers to favor the pharmaceutical companies and those with a population control agenda. Villegas stressed: \"Because [the poor] have been deprived of the infrastructures they need, such as farm-to-market roads, irrigation systems, post-harvest facilities and other support services that the State neglected to provide them, the only economic resources they have are their children\". He also challenged that he is willing to bet that if the government will provide cash money to the poor to buy condoms, the poor will use the cash for food and basic needs, thus exploding the myth.\n\nOne of the main concerns of the proponents is the perceived lack of access to family planning devices such as contraceptives and sterilization. The bill intends to provide universal access through government funding, complementing thus private sector initiatives for family planning services, such as those offered by the International Planned Parenthood Federation (IPPF) which supports the Family Planning Organizations of the Philippines and the 97 organizations of the Philippine NGO Council.\nThe UP School of Economics argues, in contrast, that there is lack of access especially for poor people, because contraceptive use is extremely low among them and \"among the poorest families, 22% of married women of reproductive age express a desire to avoid pregnancies but are still not using any family planning method\". They say that lack of access leads to a number of serious problems which demand attention: (1) \"too many and too spaced children raises the risk of illness and premature deaths (for mother and child alike),\" (2) \"the health risks associated with mistimed and unwanted pregnancies are higher for adolescent mothers, as they are more likely to have complications during labor,\" (3) women who have mistimed pregnancies are \"constrained to rely more on public education and health services and other publicly provided goods and services\", further complicating limited public resources, (4) families are not able to achieve their desired family size. Thus the UP economists \"strongly and unequivocally support\" the thrust of the bill to enable \"couples and individuals to decide freely and responsibly the number and spacing of their children and to have the information and means to carry out their decisions”. Proponents argue that government-funded access is the key to breaking the inter-generational poverty that many people are trapped in.\n\nProponents of the bill contend that \"natural family planning methods have not proven to be as reliable as artificial means of birth control\".\n\nAccording to the RH bill, one of its components is \"prevention of abortion and management of post-abortion complications\". It provides that \"the government shall ensure that all women needing care for post-abortion complications shall be treated and counseled in a humane, non-judgmental and compassionate manner\". It also states that \"abortion remains a crime and is punishable\", as the Constitution declares that “the State shall equally protect the life of the mother and the life of the unborn from conception”.\n\nThe position of the Philippine Medical Association (PMA) \"is founded strongly on the principle that 'life or conception begins at fertilization' at that moment where there is fusion or union of the sperm and the egg and thus a human person or human being already does exist at the moment of fertilization\". The PMA condemns abortifacients that \"destroys the fertilized egg or the embryo\" and \"abhors any procedure...or medication that will interrupt any stage of fertilization and prevents its normal, physiological, uninterrupted growth to adulthood\".\n\nJo Imbong, founder of the Abay Pamilya Foundation, reported that \"Lagman said in a House hearing that the bill would protect human life 'from implantation' \", and not from fertilization, noting at the same time that the Records of the Constitutional Commission state that “Human life begins at fertilization”.\n\nProponents argue that research by the Guttmacher Institute, involved in advancing international reproductive health, reveals that the use of contraceptives can reduce abortion rates by 85%. Proponents such as 14 Ateneo de Manila University professors, argued thus: \"Studies show that the majority of women who go for an abortion are married or in a consensual union (91%), the mother of three or more children (57%), and poor (68%) (Juarez, Cabigon, and Singh 2005). For these women, terminating a pregnancy is an anguished choice they make in the face of severe constraints. When women who had attempted an abortion were asked their reasons for doing so, their top three responses were: they could not afford the economic cost of raising another child (72%); their pregnancy occurred too soon after the last one (57%); and they already have enough children (54%). One in ten women (13%) who had attempted an abortion revealed that this was because her pregnancy resulted from forced sex (ibid.). Thus, for these women, abortion has become a family planning method, in the absence of information on and access to any reliable means to prevent an unplanned and unwanted pregnancy\".\n\nThe bill, said Clara Padilla of EnGender Rights Inc, will \"help reduce the number of abortions by providing increased access to information and services on modern contraceptive methods, that in turn will reduce the number of unwanted—and often aborted—pregnancies\".\n\nBoth sides of the debate accuse the other side of deception and misleading the public. The pro-RH people accuse the anti-RH group of misleading the public by calling the bill an abortion bill, when the bill states that abortion remains a crime and is punishable. The anti-RH advocates accuse the RH supporters of hiding from the public the international population control agenda which includes abortion and they refer to U.S. Secretary Hillary Clinton who said that RH includes abortion.\n\nFourteen professors from Ateneo de Manila University, a prominent Catholic University, considering the empirical evidence of the dire socioeconomic conditions of the Filipino poor, urged that the bill be passed to help them. They argued: \"As Catholics and Filipinos, we share the hope and mission of building a Church of the Poor. We are thus deeply disturbed and saddened by calls made by some members of the Catholic Church to reject a proposed legislation that promises to improve the wellbeing of Filipino families, especially the lives of women, children, adolescents, and the poor\". They announced that \"Catholic social teachings recognize the primacy of the well-formed conscience over wooden compliance to directives from political and religious authorities\", urging Catholic authorities to withdraw their opposition the bill. Citing Catholic documents and scientific studies, they reasoned that \"the RH Bill is pro-life, pro-women, pro-poor, pro-youth, and pro-informed choice\". They emphasized that the bill \"promotes quality of life, by enabling couples, especially the poor, to bring into the world only the number of children they believe they can care for and nurture to become healthy and productive members of our society\". Thus, they called their paper \"Catholics Can Support the RH Bill in Good Conscience\".\n\nIn response, the Ateneo administration announced its unity with Catholic teaching and that it had \"serious objections to the present bill\".\n\nProponents such as Lagman also stressed that official Catholic teaching itself, expressed in the Encyclical \"Humanae Vitae\" issued only forty years ago in 1964, is not infallible. He said that the Papal Commission on Birth Control, which included ranking prelates and theologians, recommended that the Church change its teaching on contraception as it concluded that “the regulation of conception appears necessary for many couples who wish to achieve a responsible, open and reasonable parenthood in today’s circumstances”. The editorial of the \"Philippine Daily Inquirer\", moreover, stated that Catholic teaching is \"only\" a religious teaching and should not be imposed with intolerance on a secular state.\n\nOpponents argue that misery is not the result of the church which they say is the largest charitable organization in the world, but of a breakdown in moral sense that gives order to society, nor does misery come from parents who bring up children in faithfulness, discipline, love and respect for life, but from those who strip human beings of moral dignity and responsibility, by treating them as mere machines, which they believe contraception does.\n\nStating that contraception is a lie and \"against the beginning of new life\", the Philippine Medical Association also stressed that the \"health risks of contraception to women are considerable; the list of side effects is long, and includes high blood pressure, strokes, increased incidence of some forms of cancer\".\n\nProponents such as E. Ansioco of Democratic Socialist Women of the Philippines argued that \"The World Health Organization (WHO) includes contraceptives in its Model Lists of Essential Drugs\" and thus are safe medicines. \"Medical and scientific evidence,\" says the main proponent, \"shows that all the possible medical risks connected with contraceptives are infinitely lower than the risks of an actual pregnancy and everyday activities...The risk of dying within a year of using pills is 1 in 200,000. The risk of dying from a vasectomy is 1 in 1 million and the risk of dying from using an IUD is 1 in 10 million...But the risk of dying from a pregnancy is 1 in 10,000.\"\n\nThe RH bill provides for \"prevention and treatment of HIV/AIDS and other, STIs/STDs\", especially since the number of HIV cases among the young nearly tripled from 41 in 2007 to 110 in 2008. Proponents emphasized that RH will help in stemming the AIDS epidemic that is worsening in the Philippines. Lagman explained that \"Globally, the new number of reported cases of HIV infections and deaths has dropped by nearly 20 percent. It is therefore both ironic and tragic that the Philippines’ trajectory is towards the other direction. Our country’s HIV/AIDS statistics have increased by 30 percent!\" Primary among the means is distribution of condoms. The proponents applauded government efforts last February 2010 when it distributed condoms in some areas of Manila.\n\nProponents refer to many surveys conducted by two prominent locally based organizations (SWS and Pulse Asia) which show majority support for the bill. A survey conducted in 2008 by the Social Weather Stations, commissioned by the Forum for Family Planning and Development (FFPD), a non-government advocacy group, showed that 68 percent of Filipinos agree that there should be a law requiring government to distribute legal contraceptives. SWS President and RH Bill proponent, \"Mahar Mangahas\" reported that the \"survey found 71 percent in favor [of the RH Bill], 21 percent undecided, and a mere 8 percent opposed. Among those who originally knew of the bill, the score is 84 percent in favor, and 6 percent opposed. Among those who learned of the bill for the first time because of the survey, the score is 59 percent in favor, versus 11 percent opposed. Pulse Asia reported that in an October 2008 survey \"most Filipinos are aware of the reproductive health bill pending at the House of Representatives (68%) and are in favor of the bill (63%)\". In December 2010, Pulse Asia announced based on the results of an October 2010 survey, 69% of the Filipinos are in favor of the bill.\n\nPresident of Prolife Philippines, Lito Atienza, said that the surveys conducted by SWS and Pulse Asia were misleading, because the participants were not fully informed of the bill, were merely aware of it, and informed that it was about health and \"modern methods\". Instead he referred to the Filipino Family survey of December 2009 conducted by the HB&A International (an affiliate of Louis Harris & Associates) together with the personnel of Asia Research Organization (the Philippine affiliate of Gallup International). The survey concluded that 92% of people in metropolitan Manila rejected the bill, \"85 percent are not aware that once passed the RH bill would allow teenagers to secure 'abortifacient devices and substances' without their parents’ knowledge and consent...90 percent do not agree that Congress should appropriate P2 billion to the detriment of other essential medicines for free children’s vaccinations, treatment of dreaded diseases and other more important health and medical concerns.\" Mangahas acknowledged that the SWS surveys did not include the penalties.\n\nA TV Debate was also hosted by ABS-CBN last May 2011. Leaders of both sides, including Rep. Lagman and Rep. Golez were present. According to the ABS-CBN news which reported on the results: \"In the SMS poll, 69.58% of votes cast reject the RH bill while 30.42% support it\". In the separate online poll held on the Harapan microsite that livestreamed the debate, majority voted against the bill at the very end of the debate.\n\nOn TV5's Debate \"Hamon sa Pagbabago\" on August 21, 2011, the studio audience voted 100% against the bill, while 58.7% of the viewers voted against the RH Bill via text messaging, versus 41.3% in favor.\n\nThe online poll conducted by the \"Philippine Star\" published on May 18, 2011, showed that 56% were against the RH Bill, while 44% were in favor.\n\nBeginning in late 2010, there were rallies for and against the bill.\n\nThere is mandatory sexuality education starting grade 5, and \"malicious disinformation\" is penalized. All health care service providers which provide reproductive health services, including faith-based hospital administrators, may be imprisoned or fined if they refuse to provide family planning services such as tubal ligation and vasectomy. The same may happen to employers who do not provide free services to employees. Imprisonment ranges from one to six months or a fine ranging from ten thousand pesos (P10,000.00) to fifty thousand pesos (P50,000.00). Former Finance Secretary Roberto de Ocampo stated that these punitive provisions \"are tantamount to an affront to civil liberties and smack of religious persecution\".\n\nDefending the bill, Felipe Medalla, former dean of the University of the Philippines School of Economics, said that \"although the poor’s access to family planning services can be improved even without the law, the absence of the law makes it easier to block the program\".\n\nThe head of the Roman Catholic Church in the Philippines, Archbishop Luis Antonio Tagle opposes the Reproductive Health Bill, along with abortion and contraception. Because 81% of Filipinos are Catholics, the Catholic Church exerts a strong influence in public and moral life. Its staunch opposition to the bill has drawn the controversy among non-Catholics and Catholics alike who support the bill whereby many invoke the principle of separation of church and state.\n\nFr. Joaquin Bernas, S.J, one of the drafters of the Philippine Constitution and a prominent lawyer and writer, explained that the concept of separation of church and state is directed towards the state, rather than the church, as it is a political concept. Technically it means \"non-establishment of religion,\" as the Constitution states, \"No law shall be passed respecting an establishment of religion.\" It means that the state should be guided by the principle that it should support no specific religion and so government funding should not be allocated for building churches or mosques and not favor any particular religion. It does not prevent the church, parents, supervisors, teachers and other moral educators from expressing their views and educating their wards on the morality of their personal and social actions. The Catholic Church also states that their stand is based on secular reasons and natural law that are both acceptable to non-Catholics as well. Proponents, on the other hand, state that the church should not meddle in matters of the state and should focus on religious matters, not political matters.\n\nThe national debate is seen as part of a wider culture war. Passing it or not passing it of the bill has negative implications depending on the views. Proponents state that the not passing the bill will make the Philippines no longer be a backward state and unable to achieve the Millennium Development Goals, especially the points on poverty alleviation and maternal health. It will mean reneging on international commitments and will slow down modernization. Also, the poor will not have free access to family planning support that many have want, and thus will have more children than they can care for and will not have the money to invest in education to break the intergenerational poverty they are trapped in. Proponents also accuse the Catholic Church of holding the Philippines \"hostage\" and violating the separation of church and state. They argue that a decreased population growth will lead to improved quality of life and economic development.\n\nDepartment of Health is proposing 13.7 billion pesos to be fund the RH Bill if it is passed in 2012, according to Senator Pia Cayetano.\n\nFilipinos for Life, an anti-abortion organization, claimed that the bill was funded by foreign population control groups, a claim that Rep. Edcel Lagman denied as \"an old yarn which is destitute of factual basis\", saying that the lobby opposing the bill was the one which was backed by the \"wealthy Catholic hierarchy with the aid of dozens of lay organizations”.\n\nYoung Nine Legislators (Y9L)—including Aliah Dimaporo, Lucy Torres-Gomez, Karlo Alexei Nograles—said that “The proposed P3 billion appropriation for the RH bill, if put towards education, can help secure the future of young Filipinos. That amount can build 4,644 new classrooms…or it can subsidize the college education of 300,000 scholars—a chance for underprivileged student achievers to earn their diploma”.\n\nLagman on the other hand said that both these priorities are important but with a burgeoning population the budget will become even tighter, thus population growth is a major issue.\n\nEuropean Union Ambassador to the Philippines Alistair MacDonald said \"We have all seen the figures on illegal abortion a year in the Philippines and I very much hope that both Houses of Congress will take these issues into account in producing a reproductive health legislation which will really help people make their own choices and to provide for their families\".\n\nMacDonald said that lack of effective access to reproductive health services in the Philippines was \"antithetical\" to the country’s struggle against poverty and \"It seems to me extremely unlikely that the Philippines will be able to meet its commitment under the MDGs under the present policy\". MacDonald noted that the total fertility rate for the richest quintile of the population is 2.0, while the total fertility rate of the poorest quintile is 5.9. The total fertility rate for women with a college education is 2.3, about half that of women with only elementary education (4.5). He mentioned that the lack of access to RH services is anti-women, citing the slow decline in the maternal mortality ratio in the Philippines. He also said surveys suggest that the total wanted fertility rate for the Philippines is 2.4 children, or below the actual TFR of 3.3 children.\n\nOn January 31, 2011, six different bills were consolidated into a single RH Bill which was then unanimously approved for plenary debate by the House Committee on Population and Family Relations. On February 7, 2011, the bill was scheduled to go before the House Appropriations Committee. On February 16, 2011, the bill was endorsed by the House Appropriations Committee with amendment and referred back to the Population Committee for finalizing the language.\n\nPresident Noynoy Aquino during the presidential campaign said that it confounds him why he is always associated with the RH Bill and reiterated that he is neither an author nor a co-author and did not sign the committee report regarding the bill. He said that \"he will fully support the crafting of a firm policy that will address the serious problem on population\" At the same time, Aquino said that \"artificial contraception was a matter of choice and conscience and that health professionals who fool people into using artificial contraceptives should be penalized. As a Catholic, Aquino said he himself was not promoting artificial contraception but believes that the government should be able to provide it to Filipinos who ask for it\". Aquino stressed, \"I’m a Catholic, I'm not promoting it. My position is more aptly called responsible parenthood rather than reproductive health.\"\n\nAccording to Rina Jimenez David who is pro-RH, during the “Women Deliver Philippines” Conference held September 2010, Dinky Soliman, Aquino's Secretary of Social Welfare and Development, said that \"choice and access” constituted the keystone of the Aquino government’s policy, reiterating the administration’s support for the pending reproductive health bills.\n\nOn December 2010, the Cabinet and the CBCP agreed to have a joint campaign providing full information on the advantages and risks of contraceptives, natural and artificial family planning and responsible parenthood. They have established a technical working group for this purpose. They also agreed that government will not be an \"instrument to enforce or violate the conscience of the people about these issues.\"\n\nHowever, by April 2011 Aquino has given his full support to the entire RH Bill in a speech at the University of the Philippines Diliman and promised to push for its passage even at the \"risk of excommunication.\"\n\nSenate President Juan Ponce Enrile, Congressman Roilo Golez and Buhay party-list separately filed bills that seek to restrict abortion and birth control use. These bills have been seen either as a nullification of the RH Bill, its alternative, or as a way of achieving unity among the populace, since the RH Bill proponents have stated their concern in preventing abortion.\n\nPresidential candidate Gilbert Teodoro or Gibo suggested a cash transfer from the government to individuals wanting access to family planning methods, whether natural or artificial. The individuals can then make use of the cash they receive to purchase birth control devices they may choose, thus guaranteeing freedom of choice.\n\nThe Loyola School of Theology and the John J. Carroll Institute on State and Church Issues issued nine talking points on the RH Bill. Among other points, they proposed a study on the meaning of conception in the Constitution, and if it means fertilization, abortifacients \"are to be banned even now and regardless of whether the RH Bill is passed\". They also proposed \"parallel programs for providing information and training, one for Natural Family Planning (NFP) and another for artificial methods of family planning\". Columnist Jose Sison of the \"Philippine Star\" criticized that \"a Catholic School of theology has actually proposed in public, the use of tax payers’ money to train Filipinos to employ methods that are objectively and intrinsically evil\" and cites \"empirical evidence and scientific proofs confirming the harmful and evil effects of contraceptives to individuals and to society.\"\n\nIn September 2010, Aquino, during this visit to the United States, reiterated his stand that he is in favor of responsible parenthood and respects the decision of each couple as to the number of children they want, and if they need the government support for contraception, the government will provide it. This statement has created a furor as Catholic church leaders say that Aquino has sold out the Filipino soul in exchange for some \"measly\" aid from the United States. The President of the Catholic Bishops Conference said that there could be an excommunication of the President if he continues his stance. Pro-RH Bill snators encouraged the President to be steadfast to do his duties towards the state. The President's spokesperson Edwin Lacierda explained that the President \"has not changed his stand\" and is reaching out to the prelates and said that he has not made any decision in support of the Reproductive Health Bill as he was still studying the document. Lacierda said that the Executive Branch \"is not involved in the passage of the RH bill, saying the measure's fate rests solely on the legislative branch.\"\n\nFilipino Freethinkers, an association of agnostics, atheists, progressives, etc., very active in the fight in favor of the RH bill, stepped up the pressure, creating more controversy that fired up renewed interest in the bill on both sides. On September 30, 2010, one of the freethinkers, Carlos Celdran staged a protest action against the Catholic Church, holding a sign which read \"DAMASO,\" a reference to the villainous, corrupt clergyman Father Dámaso of the novel \"Noli Me Tangere\" by Filipino revolutionary writer Jose Rizal, and shouting \"stop getting involved in politics!\" A fan page, Free Carlos Celdran was created in Facebook, which generated 23,808 fans in 24 hours. Francisco Montalvan of the \"Inquirer\" said that in the end the Damasos are the scheming, corrupt and deceptive people, implying that the \"pro-death advocates\" are these, while the Cardinal Rosales who started a nationwide fund for the poor is very far from Damaso. Meanwhile, the Imam Council of the Philippines, the top leaders of the Moslem population which at 4.5 million constitutes 5% of the Philippine population, declared that they are against contraceptives since using them \"underestimates God\" and \"makes one lose morality in the process.\"\n\nDuring the first public hearing on 24 Nov, the chair of the Committee on Population handling the bill said that there is no instruction from the Speaker of the House to expedite the bill. Upon the call of anti-RH congressmen, the Committee Chair decided to refer the bill also to the Committee on Health since the bill is about Reproductive Health. Leader of the pro-RH group, Elizabeth Ansioco, said that the bill is doomed if it is referred to the Committee on Health. Anti-RH Deputy Speaker Congressman Pablo Garcia said the members of the Committee on Health knew of the WHO announcement on the carcinogenicity of combined estrogen-progestogen oral contraceptives.\n\nHouse Speaker Belmonte said that Congress is not likely to rush the legislation of the bill and will tackle it in plenary early next year. Belmonte said it is better that highly contentious bills be given more attention.\n\nOn 3 December, the Senate cut the proposed budget of P 880M for contraceptives down to P 8M for condoms since other contraceptives violated the Constitution's ban on abortifacients, and Senator Tito Sotto III said that his constituents never asked for contraceptives.\n\nOn 27 July 2012, the Speaker of the House decided to put to a vote, by August 7, 2012, on whether the debates have to be terminated. Meanwhile, six co-authors of the bill withdrew support, with the head of the minority group of the house declaring that eight of their group are withdrawing their previous support for the bill.\n\nAt 3 in the morning on December 13, 2012, the House of Representatives voted on second reading in favor of the bill with 113–109 while five representatives abstained. In the upper house, the Senate voted, on December 18, 2012, to pass the bill on second reading with 13–8, while Senators Sergio Osmeña III and Lito Lapid were absent.\n\nOn the same day, both houses passed the bill on the third and final reading. Members of the House of Representatives voted 133–79, while seven representatives abstained. The Senate registered 13–8, the same result as the second reading.\n\nOn December 19, 2012, both versions of the bill were passed to the Bicameral Committee to produce a final version to be signed by the President Aquino. The committee quickly passed the bill in just one session. It was transmitted back to the House of Representatives and the Senate, which both ratified the bill, with the Senate voting 11–5 in favor of ratification, and the House of Representatives voting via voice vote\n\nOn December 21, 2012, President Aquino signed the bill into law, codifying the bill as Republic Act No. 10354, otherwise known as the \"Responsible Parenthood and Reproductive Health Act of 2012\". News of the signing was announced by House Majority Leader Neptali Gonzales II on December 28, 2012.\n\nIn response to petitions challenging the law's constitutionality, the Supreme Court voted 10-5 on March 19, 2013 to issue a status quo ante order halting the implementation of the law for four months.\nOral arguments were set for June 18 but postponed until July 9 after the Supreme Court received additional petitions and interventions.\n\nDuring oral arguments, several justices indicated that the court \"does not seem to be the right forum–at least for now.\" Ir could not settle medical issues, such as whether any contraceptives to be made available were actually abortifacients. Chief Justice Maria Lourdes Sereno said the court might have no choice but to exercise \"judicial restraint\" on the 15 petitions opposing the law.\n\nOn July 16, the justices voted 8-7 to extend the status quo ante order, which would have expired the next day \"until further orders effective immediately.\"\nOral arguments concluded on August 27, with the petitioners against and for the law being instructed to submit memorandums within 60 days.\n\nOn April 8, 2014, the Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the law. The justices, however, struck down eight provisions of the law partially or in full.\n\nIn 2015, the Supreme Court's issued a temporary restraining order on certain provisions of the law, forbidding the distribution of contraceptive implants.\n\nNotwithstanding the restraining order on certain methods of contraception, in September 2018, President Duterte decided to ensure, within 2018, free contraception for 6 million women with unmet needs for modern family planning - in 2018, for 2 million women identified as poor, and later for further 4 million women.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6189024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6189024", "title": "Rurality", "text": "Rurality\n\nRurality is used as an expression of different rural areas as not being homogeneously defined. Many authors involved in mental health research in rural areas, stress the importance of steering clear of inflexible blanket definitions of rurality , and to instead \"select definitions of rurality that are appropriate to the study being conducted\" . One of the simplest, but clearest definition of rurality is that one that expresses rurality as \"a condition of place-based homeliness shared by people with common ancestry or heritage and who inhabit traditional, culturally defined areas or places statutorily recognized to be rural\" .\n\nThe index developed categorises all areas of England and Wales into four criteria: extreme rural, intermediate rural, intermediate non-rural and extreme non-rural; as well as urban areas. He used 16 different ways of drawing the conclusions for his model, all of which led to the measure of an area's rurality.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32949162", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32949162", "title": "Shipping container clinic", "text": "Shipping container clinic\n\nA shipping container clinic is a type of shipping container architecture using intermodal containers (shipping containers) as the structural element of a medical clinic that can be easily deployed to remote regions of the world. Shipping containers are ideal because of their inherent strength, wide availability and relatively low cost. In addition, and most relevant, shipping containers can be deployed anywhere in the world with the clinic already assembled within the container. This means pop-up clinics can be operational within days after deployment.\n\nSeveral organizations have developed the concept of shipping container clinics:\n"}
{"id": "49222618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49222618", "title": "Surgical Infections", "text": "Surgical Infections\n\nSurgical Infections is a peer-reviewed medical journal published by Mary Ann Liebert, Inc. It is the official journal of the Surgical Infection Society, the Surgical Infection Society Europe, the Surgical Infection Society Latin America, and the Chinese Society of Surgical Infection and Intensive Care.\n\n\"Surgical Infections\" \"provides information on the biology, prevention, and management of post-operative infections.\" The journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.448.\n\nThe editor-in-chief is Donald E. Fry (Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine).\n"}
{"id": "57854524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57854524", "title": "The Live Love Laugh Foundation", "text": "The Live Love Laugh Foundation\n\nThe Live Love Laugh Foundation is a non-profit organisation that deals with mental health issues. It was founded in 2015 by Deepika Padukone as a non-profit NGO to bring awareness to mental health in India. In 2016, the organization launched a program called \"You Are Not Alone\". Facebook is working with the organization to prevent suicides from being livestreamed.\n\nThe Foundation focuses on the following objectives: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "9433946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9433946", "title": "Typodont", "text": "Typodont\n\nIn dentistry, a typodont is a model of the oral cavity, including teeth, gingiva, and the palate.\n\nA typodont is an educational tool for dental and hygienist students, allowing them to practice certain dental procedures on the plastic teeth of a model before actually performing the procedures on live patients. Generally, typodonts have replaceable, screw-in teeth that are composed of materials that allow students to drill cavity preparations and fill them with restorative material, such as amalgam or composite, or prepare the plastic teeth for crowns and bridges.\n"}
{"id": "8748859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8748859", "title": "Water supply and sanitation in the United Kingdom", "text": "Water supply and sanitation in the United Kingdom\n\nPublic water supply and sanitation in the United Kingdom is characterised by universal access and generally good service quality. A salient feature of the sector in the United Kingdom compared to other developed countries is the diversity of institutional arrangements between the constituting parts of the UK (England and Wales; Scotland; and Northern Ireland), which are each described in separate articles, while this article is devoted to some common issues across the United Kingdom.\n\nAccess to improved water supply and sanitation in the UK is universal. In 2015, 100% of the population had access to improved water supply and 99% of the population had access to \"improved\" sanitation.\nSource: WHO/UNICEF Joint Monitoring Program (2008) \n\nAccording to the Environment Agency, total water abstraction for public water supply in the UK was 16,406 megalitres per day in 2007. Groundwater contributes 30 per cent of public supply water in England. In Wales and Scotland groundwater provides about five per cent of public supply. . The majority of the UK's abstraction of surface water is from reservoirs, where rainwater is transported via rivers and streams and contained in an artificial or natural lake until it's required. \n\nIn England and Wales the economic regulator of water companies is the Water Services Regulation Authority (Ofwat). The Environment Agency is responsible for environmental regulation, and the Drinking Water Inspectorate for regulating drinking water quality. The economic water industry regulator in Scotland is the Water Industry Commission for Scotland and the environmental regulator is the Scottish Environment Protection Agency. Drinking water standards and wastewater discharge standards in the UK, as in other countries of the European Union, are determined by the EU (see Water supply and sanitation in the European Union).\n\nIn England and Wales water and sewerage services are provided by 10 private regional water and sewerage companies and 13 mostly smaller private \"water only\" companies. In Scotland water and sewerage services are provided by a single public company, Scottish Water. In Northern Ireland water and sewerage services are also provided by a single public entity, Northern Ireland Water.\n\nTotal employment by UK water companies amounted to 41,000 full-time equivalent jobs in 2012/13, according to an analysis by the consulting firm Deloitte. In addition, 86,000 jobs were supported indirectly.\n\nAccording to a 2006 survey by NUS consulting the average water tariff (price) without sewerage in the U.K. for large consumers was the equivalent of US$1.90 per cubic metre. This was the third-highest tariff among the 14 mostly OECD countries covered by the report.\n\nA particularity of water tariffs in the U.K. is the low share of metering. Most users are not billed on a volumetric basis and have no financial incentive for water conservation. Since the 1990s efforts have been made to increase the share of household metering, which reached 33% in 2008. The Environment Agency would like to see 75% of households metered by 2025. The Fairness on Tap coalition (including National Trust, Waterwise, WWF and RSPB) is calling for the government to set out a strategy to install water meters in at least 80% of England where there is the greatest pressure on the freshwater environment and people's pockets, by 2020. Studies show that water meters lead to a 5-15% reduction in household water use.\n\n\n"}
