{"id": "48564114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48564114", "title": "2015 Kohler strike", "text": "2015 Kohler strike\n\nThe 2015 Kohler Strike is the fourth strike in the 142-year-old history of the Kohler Company in Kohler, Wisconsin.\n\nIn December 2010, the Kohler Company and United Auto Workers Local 833 reached agreement on a new five-year labor contract, that covered approximately 2,300 union workers at the company's two Sheboygan County, Wisconsin manufacturing locations. The contract passed 1,152 to 717, with 62 percent of union members voting to ratify the deal and 38 percent voting no. Throughout negotiations, Kohler Company officials insisted labor concessions were needed as the company's Sheboygan County manufacturing plants are easily the company's most expensive to operate, and products produced there are no longer competitive.\nThe deal included a five-year wage freeze, higher health care premiums and the creation of a two-tiered wage and benefit system. It also allowed for the limited use of temporary workers.\n\nThe first Kohler Company strike, which began in 1934, lasted seven years and resulted in the shooting deaths of two strikers during a riot outside the company’s factory. The second strike was in 1954 and lasted 6 years. It was marred by acts of violence and vandalism. The third strike, which occurred in 1983 and lasted several weeks, saw car windows smashed by demonstrators and two union members injured by a motorist who drove his vehicle through a picket line.\nThe Board of Directors of the Kohler Company elected David Kohler the company president and CEO on April 29, 2015, passing leadership of the family business to Herbert Kohler, Sr. grandson. The 76 year old Herbert Kohler, Jr. would continue as company chairman and would oversee the company's hospitality and real estate group.\nOn November 11, 2015, the Milwaukee Journal Sentinel reported negotiations between the company and the United Auto Workers were continuing, but with a deadline laid down by the union approaching, the two sides were \"not even close to an agreement,\" said Tim Tayloe, president of UAW Local 833.\nOn November 13, workers held an informational picket outside the Kohler Company owned-and-operated The American Club ahead of a possible strike.\nOn November 14, the Kohler Company released its \"last, best and final offer.\"\n\nOn the morning of November 15, 2015, an estimated 1,800 UAW Union members attended a meeting at Sheboygan South High School. 94 percent voted down the proposed Kohler Company proposal and approving a strike. The second day of the strike on November 16 began with workers marching 1.58 miles from Emil Mazey Hall in the Town of Sheboygan to the Kohler Company Headquarters. Closed entrances to the company campus caused traffic congestion for morning commute with traffic backed up into nearby cities of Sheboygan and Sheboygan Falls. About 150 union employees were blocking the only company entrance as of 6 a.m. and preventing non-union employees from entering. Three days into the strike on November 17, Sheboygan County Judge James Bolgert issued a temporary injunction barring picketers from interfering with traffic near Kohler Company property. The temporary injunction issued Tuesday bars demonstrators from interfering with traffic on public roads and with vehicles entering or leaving Kohler Co. property. It also restricts picketers from seizing and occupying Kohler property, including driveways. On the fourth day of the strike, UAW Local 833 told Wisconsin Public Radio that the company has not responded to a request for more contract talks.\nDuring the first week of the strike, the Village of Kohler has also asked for help from the Sheboygan County Sheriff's Office and the neighboring Sheboygan Falls Police Department with traffic control.\n\nOn the seventh day of the strike, union members and advocates held mass picket in support of striking Kohler Company workers on November 21 during company's American Club hosts its popular Wisconsin Holiday Market. The street in front of the American Club and the Kohler Company headquarters was closed to traffic during the picket.\n\nAfter 32 days, the strike ended as UAW Local 833 and Kohler struck a deal which was ratified by 91% of the union. The deal secured wage increases for Tier A and B employees, narrowing the pay gap between new hires and older workers. Pension benefits were improved and healthcare premium increases were minimized. \n\n"}
{"id": "36500047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36500047", "title": "Al-Iqtissadiya", "text": "Al-Iqtissadiya\n\nAl Iqtissadiya (\"Economy\" in Arabic) is a weekly Arabic newspaper published in Syria. The paper is one of the first privately owned publications in Syria. Its sister paper is \"Al Watan\", a daily in Syria.\n\n\"Al Iqtissadiya\" was launched in June 2001. The weekly, based in Damascus, is published on Sundays. It focuses on financial and business news, including local news, international news, economical research and studies. The paper both exhibits a critical attitude towards slow progress in the economic and social fields in the country and clearly supports the Assad regime's national and foreign policies. In 2005, the editor-in-chief of the paper was Waddah Abed Rabbo.\n\nThe weekly was the only Syrian publication that paid adequate tribute to Rafik Hariri, the assassinated prime minister of Lebanon in February 2005.\n"}
{"id": "4866536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4866536", "title": "American Society for Public Administration", "text": "American Society for Public Administration\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration (ASPA) is a membership association of almost 10,000 professionals in the United States sponsoring conferences and providing professional services primarily to those who study the implementation of government policy, public administration, and, to a lesser degree, programs of civil society. Its annual conference is an important meeting for those interested in bureaucracy, civic engagement, program evaluation, public management and other public administration topics, such as budgeting and budget theory, government strategic planning, policy analysis, contract administration, personnel management, and related topics.\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration was founded in 1939, following growing concerns about the management of federal government and the report of the Brownlow Committee. It was formally incorporated on September 13, 1945.\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration sponsors the journal \"Public Administration Review\", Journal of Health and Human Services Administration, Public Budgeting and Finance, and other leading international journals related to its over 30 working membership sections (e.g., Section on Public Performance and Management, Section on Women in Public Administration, Section on the Environment and Natural Resources Administration, Section on Intergovernmental Management and Administration).\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration was founded in 1939 by Louis Brownlow, William E. Mosher, Donald C. Stone, Charles A. Beard, Harold D. Smith, Luther Gulick, and others. During its early years, American Society for Public Administration was housed in the Public Administration Clearing House (PACH) in Chicago.\n\nSignificant events in American Society for Public Administration's history include:\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration's membership declined from about 14,000 members in 1990 to 8,383 members in 2007. However, during that period the Society took \"steps to address its most serious issues: attracting and retaining members, dealing with structure and funding, developing a coherent mission, strengthening chapters and sections, sponsoring successful conferences, enhancing its publication offerings, and working effectively with other organizations concerned with public administration and public service.\" American Society for Public Administration membership was affected by the tendency of government to hire local governmental personnel, and the change from government provision of services to contracting to the private and non-profit sectors. However, the field of public administration is the sole academic field given the responsibility for areas ranging from government budgeting at the United States budget levels, community development throughout all localities and states in the United States, and personnel management of all United States workforces, among others.\n\nThe presidents of American Society for Public Administration have been:\n\nAmerican Society for Public Administration sponsors over twenty awards for practitioners and scholars of public administration, of which the longest-running are the Dwight Waldo and Charles Levine awards.\n\nThe Dwight Waldo Award is presented to individuals \"who have made outstanding contributions to the professional literature of public administration over an extended career.\" Recipients have included:\nThe Charles Levine Memorial Award for Excellence in Public Administration is presented jointly by American Society for Public Administration and the National Association of Schools of Public Affairs and Administration to \"a public administration faculty member who has demonstrated excellence in three major areas of the field of teaching, research and service to the wider community.\" Recipients have included:\nTodd W. Argow Student Scholarship Award is presented to a student who\nhas demonstrated academic scholarship and exceptional leadership potential in the field of\nPublic Administration.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4044883", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4044883", "title": "Anna M. Harkness", "text": "Anna M. Harkness\n\nAnna Maria Harkness (\"née\" Richardson) (October 25, 1837 – March 27, 1926) was an American philanthropist.\n\nShe married Stephen Vanderburgh Harkness, a businessman of Cleveland, Ohio, in 1851. They were parents of Charles Harkness, Florence and Edward Stephen Harkness. Anna's husband Stephen was an early investor with John D. Rockefeller and became the second-largest shareholder in Standard Oil before his death in March 1888.\n\nAnna Harkness lost her daughter Florence on July 29, 1895, shortly after Florence's marriage to Louis Severance in Cleveland, Ohio. Louis Severance was a philanthropist and had been the Treasurer of Standard Oil. Anna M. Harkness and Louis Severance donated the funds for the construction of the Florence Harkness Memorial Chapel at Case Western Reserve University in Cleveland.\n\nAfter Anna's and Stephen's son Charles W. Harkness died in 1917, Anna Harkness gave $3 million to Yale University for the construction of Memorial Quadrangle in Charles' memory including Harkness Tower, the most visible symbol of Yale on the New Haven skyline. Anna Harkness's portrait is displayed in the dining hall of Saybrook College, part of the Memorial Quadrangle. \n\nIn 1918 Anna Harkness established the Commonwealth Fund with an initial gift of $10 million and made her son Edward its president. Forbes listed Edward as the 6th wealthiest individual in the U.S. in 1918 just behind names like John D. Rockefeller, William Rockefeller and Andrew Carnegie. This fund bankrolled the establishment of the Harkness Fellowships and the construction of St. Salvator's Hall at the University of St Andrews, the Butler Library at Columbia University, and many of the undergraduate dormitories at Harvard and Yale Universities (known as \"houses\" and \"residential colleges,\" respectively).\n\nAnna Harkness donated another $3 million to Yale in 1920 to increase faculty salaries.\n\nAnna Harkness also made gifts to Hampton and Tuskegee Institutes, the New York Public Library, the Museum of Natural History in New York, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, the New York Zoological Society and Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons. The Harkness Pavilion at NewYork–Presbyterian Hospital / Columbia University Medical Center is named for the family.\n\n"}
{"id": "33364811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33364811", "title": "Arkadiy Abramovich", "text": "Arkadiy Abramovich\n\nArkady Romanovich Abramovich (Russian: Аркадий Романович Абрамович) born 14 September 1993 is the heir to Roman Abramovich, Russian billionaire and owner of Chelsea F.C.\n\nAbramovich is one of five children born to Russian-Israeli billionaire Roman Abramovich and his Russian wife Irina Vyacheslavovna Malandina. His mother is a former Aeroflot stewardess. They divorced in 2007. He has one brother and three sisters: Ilya, Arina, Sofia, and Anna.\n\nArkadiy is the founder and owner of ARA Capital, a private investment vehicle whose assets include Zoltav Resources PLC, a company listed on the London Stock Exchange under the ticker ZOL. Through ARA Capital, he also bought a 26% stake in Crosby Asset Management. In 2010 it was widely reported that Arkadiy made a bid for leading Danish football team FC Copenhagen, however, no bid materialised.\n\nIn 2013, Arkadiy Abramovich started working as an intern at the London office of Russian, VTB Bank. During the same year, he bought a 45% share in the shell company Zoltav Resources, and purchased a stake in an oil field in Siberia for a reported $46 million. $26 million of the $46 million were funneled through Zoltav to purchase CenGeo Holdings - owner of the undeveloped Koltogor oil field in Western Siberia. The remaining $20 million were pledged by ARA Capital to fund the field's development in return for more shares.\n\nIn 2014, Zoltav completed the acquisition of Royal Atlantic Energy (Cyprus) Limited and began trading on the London Stock Exchange's Alternative Investment Market (AIM) department. Zoltav also purchased a full license for gas exploration, extraction and production in the Bortovoy area, which contains several active gas fields, 750 billion cubic feet of substantiated gas reserves, 3.9 million barrels of condensate, and a processing plant.\n\nIn 2015, Arkadiy founded a company called Greenhouse, specializing in vegetable farming. Though the value of the investment remains undisclosed, reports note that the farming venture would focus on growing cucumbers and tomatoes in the Belgorod region, 700 km south of Moscow. According to authorities in the Rostov region, earlier the same year Abramovich Jr. began planning a major investment (approx. $700 million) in greenhouse development in the region. The terms are still under negotiation. In 2017, it was reported that Arkadiy had offered €250million to purchase a controlling stake in CSKA Moscow.\n\nRoman Abramovich’s teenage son buys a Siberian oilfield (Blouin News)\n"}
{"id": "14914864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14914864", "title": "Brand awareness", "text": "Brand awareness\n\nBrand awareness refers to the extent to which customers are able to \"recall\" or \"recognise\" a brand. Brand awareness is a key consideration in consumer behavior, advertising management, brand management and strategy development. The consumer's ability to recognise or recall a brand is central to purchasing decision-making. Purchasing cannot proceed unless a consumer is first aware of a product category and a brand within that category. Awareness does not necessarily mean that the consumer must be able to recall a specific brand name, but he or she must be able to recall sufficient distinguishing features for purchasing to proceed. For instance, if a consumer asks her friend to buy her some gum in a \"blue pack\", the friend would be expected to know which gum to buy, even though neither friend can recall the precise brand name at the time.\n\nDifferent types of brand awareness have been identified, namely \"brand recall\" and \"brand recognition\". Key researchers argue that these different types of awareness operate in fundamentally different ways and that this has important implications for the purchase decision process and for marketing communications. Brand awareness is closely related to concepts such as the \"evoked set\" and \"consideration set\" which describe specific aspects of the consumer's purchase decision. Consumers are believed to hold between three and seven brands in their consideration set across a broad range of product categories. Consumers will normally purchase one of the top three brands in their consideration set.\n\nBrand awareness is a key indicator of a brand's competitive market performance. Given the importance of brand awareness in consumer purchasing decisions, marketers have developed a number of metrics designed to measure brand awareness and other measures of brand health. These metrics are collectively known as Awareness, Attitudes and Usage (AAU) metrics.\n\nTo ensure a product or brand's market success, awareness levels must be managed across the entire product life-cycle - from product launch through to market decline. Many marketers regularly monitor brand awareness levels, and if they fall below a predetermined threshold, the advertising and promotional effort is intensified until awareness returns to the desired level.\n\nBrand awareness is related to the functions of brand identities in consumers’ memory and can be measured by how well the consumers can identify the brand under various conditions. Brand awareness is also central to understanding the consumer purchase decision process. Strong brand awareness can be a predictor of brand success. It is an important measure of \"brand strength\" or \"brand equity\" and is also involved in customer satisfaction, brand loyalty and the customer's brand relationships.\n\nBrand awareness is a key indicator of a brand's market performance. Every year advertisers invest substantial sums of money attempting to improve a brand's overall awareness levels. Many marketers regularly monitor brand awareness levels, and if they fall below a predetermined threshold, the advertising and promotional effort is intensified until awareness returns to the desired level. Setting brand awareness goals/ objectives is a key decision in marketing planning and strategy development.\n\nBrand awareness is one of major brand assets that adds value to the product, service or company. Investments in building brand awareness can lead to sustainable competitive advantages, thus, leading to long-term value.\n\nMarketers typically identify two distinct types of brand awareness; namely \"brand recall\" (also known as \"unaided recall\" or occasionally \"spontaneous recall\") and \"brand recognition\" (also known as \"aided brand recall\"). These types of awareness operate in entirely different ways with important implications for marketing strategy and advertising.\n\nBrand recall is also known as \"unaided recall\" or \"spontaneous recall\" and refers to the ability of the consumers to correctly elicit a brand name from memory when prompted by a product category. Brand recall indicates a relatively strong link between a category and a brand while brand recognition indicates a weaker link. When prompted by a product category, most consumers can only recall a relatively small set of brands, typically around 3–5 brand names. In consumer tests, few consumers can recall more than seven brand names within a given category and for low-interest product categories, most consumers can only recall one or two brand names.\n\nResearch suggests that the number of brands that consumers can recall is affected by both individual and product factors including; brand loyalty, awareness set size, situational, usage factors and education level. For instance, consumers who are involved with a category, such as heavy users or product enthusiasts, may be able to recall a slightly larger set of brand names than those who are less involved.\n\nBrand recognition is also known as \"aided recall\" and refers to the ability of the consumers to correctly differentiate the brand when they come into contact with it. This does not necessarily require that the consumers identify the brand name. Instead, it means that consumers can recognise the brand when presented with it at the point-of-sale or after viewing its visual packaging. In contrast to brand recall, where few consumers are able to spontaneously recall brand names within a given category, when prompted with a brand name, a larger number of consumers are typically able to recognise it.\n\nConsumers will normally purchase one of the top three brands in their consideration set. This is known as \ntop-of-mind awareness. Consequently, one of the goals for most marketing communications is to increase the probability that consumers will include the brand in their consideration sets.\n\nBy definition, top-of-mind awareness is \"the first brand that comes to mind when a customer is asked an unprompted question about a category.\" When discussing top-of-mind awareness among larger groups of consumers (as opposed to a single consumer), it is more often defined as the \"most remembered\" or \"most recalled\" brand name(s).\n\nA brand that enjoys top-of-mind awareness will generally be considered as a genuine purchase option, provided that the consumer is favourably disposed to the brand name. Top-of-mind awareness is relevant when consumers make a quick choice between competing brands in low-involvement categories or for impulse type purchases.\n\nClearly brand awareness is closely related to the concepts of the \"evoked set\" (defined as the set of brands that a consumer can elicit from memory when contemplating a purchase) and the \"consideration set\" (defined as the “small set of brands which a consumer pays close attention to when making a purchase decision”). One of the advertising's central roles is to create both brand awareness and brand image, in order to increase the likelihood that a brand is included in the consumer's evoked set or consideration set and regarded favourably. \n\nConsumers do not learn about products and brands from advertising alone. When making purchase decisions, consumers acquire information from a wide variety of sources in order to inform their decisions. After searching for information about a category, consumers may become aware of a larger number of brands which collectively are known as the \"awareness set\". Thus, the awareness set is likely to change as consumers acquire new information about brands or products. A review of empirical studies in this area suggests that the consideration set is likely to be at least three times larger than the evoked set. Awareness alone is not sufficient to trigger a purchase, consumers also need to be favourably disposed to a brand before it will be considered as a realistic purchase option.\n\nThe process of moving consumers from brand awareness and a positive brand attitude through to the actual sale is known as \"conversion.\" While advertising is an excellent tool for creating awareness and brand attitude, it usually requires support from other elements in the marketing program to convert attitudes into actual sales. Other promotional activities, such as telemarketing, are vastly superior to advertising in terms of generating sales. Accordingly, the advertising message might attempt to drive consumers to direct sales call centres as part of an integrated communications strategy. Many different techniques can be used to convert interest into sales including special price offers, special promotional offers, attractive trade-in terms or guarantees.\n\nPercy and Rossiter (1992) argue that the two types of awareness, namely \"brand recall\" and \"brand recognition\", operate in fundamentally different ways in the purchase decision. For routine purchases such as fast moving consumer goods (FMCG), few shoppers carry shopping lists. For them, the presentation of brands at the point-of-sale acts as a visual reminder and triggers category need. In this case, brand recognition is the dominant mode of awareness. For other purchases, where the brand is not present, the consumer first experiences category need then searches memory for brands within that category. Many services, such as home help, gardening services, pizza delivery fall into this category. In this case, the category need precedes brand awareness. Such purchases are recall dominant, and the consumer is more likely to select one of the brands elicited from memory. When brand recall is dominant, it is not necessary for consumers to like the advertisement, but they must like the brand. In contrast, consumers should like the ad when brand recognition is the communications objective. \n\nThe distinction between \"brand recall\" and \"brand recognition\" has important implications for advertising strategy. When the communications objectives depend on \"brand recognition\", the creative execution must show the brand packaging or a recognisable brand name. However, when the communications objectives rely on \"brand recall\", the creative execution should encourage strong associations between the category and the brand. Advertisers also use jingles, mnemonics and other devices to encourage brand recall.\n\n\"Brand dominance\" occurs when, during brand recall tests, most consumers can name only one brand from a given category. Brand dominance is defined as an individual’s selection of only certain brand names in a related category during a brand recall procedure. While brand dominance might appear to be a desirable goal, overall dominance can be a double-edged sword.\nA brand name that is well known to the majority of people or households is also called a \"household name\" and may be an indicator of brand success. Occasionally a brand can become so successful that the brand becomes synonymous with the category. For example, British people often talk about \"Hoovering the house\" when they actually mean \"vacuuming the house.\" (Hoover is a brand name). When this happens, the brand name is said to have \"gone \"generic\".\" Examples of brands becoming generic abound; Kleenex, Cellotape, Nescafe, Aspirin and Panadol. When a brand goes generic, it can present a marketing problem because when the consumer requests a named brand at the retail outlet, they may be supplied with a competing brand. For example, if a person enters a bar and requests \"a rum and Coke,\" the bartender may interpret that to mean a \"rum and cola-flavoured beverage,\" paving the way for the outlet to supply a cheaper alternative mixer. In such a scenario, Coca-Cola Ltd, who after investing in brand building for more than a century, is the ultimate loser because it does not get the sale.\n\nJust as different types of brand awareness can be identified, there are a variety of methods for measuring awareness. Typically, researchers use surveys, carried out on a sample of consumers asking about their knowledge of the focus brand or category.\n\nTwo types of recall test are used to measure brand awareness:\n\n\nTo measure brand salience, for example, researchers place products on a shelf in a supermarket, giving each brand equal shelf space. Consumers are shown photographs of the shelf display and ask consumers to name the brands noticed. The speed at which consumers nominate a given brand is an indicator of brand's \"visual salience.\" This type of research can provide valuable insights into the effectiveness of packaging design and brand logos. \n\nA number of commercial research firms (e.g. Interbrand, Millward-Brown, Nielsen (Asia) ) monitor brand effects for key international brands and the topline survey findings are widely published in business press, trade press and online. It is worth noting that these commercially compiled lists are not popularity contests, but use clearly articulated methodologies to compile lists based on consumer responses collected in structured research. However, these listings use a variety of metrics, so the results are not directly comparable and it cannot be assumed that they measure brand awareness. As with the interpretation of all research, it is important for readers to familiarise themselves with the methodologies used in order to clarify what exactly is being measured and how the data was collected.\n\nObviously, most marketers aim to build high levels of brand awareness within relevant market segments, giving rise to a continuing interest in developing the right metrics to measure brand effects. Metrics used to measure brand effects are collectively termed AAU metrics (Awareness, Attitudes and Usage).\n\nBrand awareness is a standard feature of a group of models known as hierarchy of effects models. Hierarchical models are linear sequential models built on an assumption that consumers move through a series of cognitive and affective stages, beginning with brand awareness (or category awareness) and culminating in the purchase decision. In these models, advertising and marketing communications operate as an external stimulus and the purchase decision is a consumer response.\n\nA number of hierarchical models can be found in the literature including DAGMAR and AIDA. In a survey of more than 250 papers, Vakratsas and Ambler (1999) found little empirical support for any of the hierarchies of effects. In spite of that, some authors have argued that hierarchical models continue to dominate theory, especially in the area of marketing communications and advertising.\n\nThe \"hierarchy of effects\" developed by Lavidge in the 1960s is one of the original hierarchical models. It proposes that customers progress through a sequence of six stages from brand awareness through to the purchase of a product.\n\nHierarchical models have been widely adapted and many variations can be found, however, all follow the basic sequence which includes Cognition (C)- Affect (A) - Behaviour (B) and for this reason, they are sometimes known as C-A-B models. Some of the more recent adaptations are designed to accommodate the consumer's digital media habits and opportunities for social influence.\n\nSelected alternative hierarchical models follow:\n\nIt should be evident that brand awareness constitutes just one of six stages that outline the typical consumer's progress towards a purchase decision. While awareness is a necessary precondition for a purchase, awareness alone cannot guarantee the ultimate purchase. Consumers may be aware of a brand, but for different reasons, may not like it or may fail to develop a preference for that brand. Hence, brand awareness is an indicator of sales performance, but does not account for all sales performance. For these reasons, marketers use a variety of metrics, including cognitive, affective and behavioral variables, to monitor a brand's market performance.\n\nAs consumers move through the \"hierarchy of effects\" (awareness→ knowledge→ liking→ preference→ conviction→ purchase), they rely on different sources of information to learn about brands. While main media advertising is useful for creating awareness, its capacity to convey long or complex messages is limited. In order to acquire more detailed knowledge about a brand, consumers rely on different sources such as product reviews, expert opinion, word-of-mouth referrals and brand/ corporate websites. As consumers move closer to the actual purchase, they begin to rely on more personal sources of information such as recommendations from friends and relatives or the advice of sales representatives. For example, the opinion of an influential blogger might be enough to shore up preference/conviction while a salesperson might be necessary to close the actual purchase.\n\nAll hierarchical models indicate that brand awareness is a necessary precondition to brand attitude or brand liking, which serves to underscore the importance of creating high levels of awareness as early as possible in a product or brand life-cycle. Hierarchical models provide marketers and advertisers with basic insights about the nature of the target audience, the optimal message and media strategy indicated at different junctures throughout a product's life cycle. For new products, the main advertising objective should be to create awareness with a broad cross-section of the potential market. When the desired levels of awareness have been attained, the advertising effort should shift to stimulating interest, desire or conviction. The number of potential purchasers decreases as the product moves through the natural sales cycle in an effect likened to a funnel. Later in the cycle, and as the number of prospects becomes smaller, the marketer can employ more tightly targeted promotions such as personal selling, direct mail and email directed at those individuals or sub-segments likely to exhibit a genuine interest in the product or brand.\n\nBrand advertising can increase the probability that a consumer will include a given brand in his or her consideration set. Brand-related advertising expenditure has a positive affect on brand awareness levels. Virtually anything that exposes consumers to a brand increases brand awareness. “Repeat brand exposure in stores improves consumers' ability to recognize and recall the brand.” Increased exposure to brand advertising can increase consumer awareness and facilitate consumer processing of the included information, and by doing this it can heighten consumers brand recall and attitude towards the brand.\n\nTo increase the probability of a product's acceptance by the market, it is important to create high levels of brand awareness as early as practical in a product or brand's life-cycle. To achieve top-of-mind awareness, marketers have traditionally, relied on intensive advertising campaigns, especially at the time of a product launch. To be successful, an intensive campaign utilises both broad \"reach\" (expose more people to the message) and high \"frequency\" (expose people multiple times to the message). Advertising, especially main media advertising, was seen as the most cost efficient means of reaching large audiences with the relatively high frequency needed to create high awareness levels. Nevertheless, intensive advertising campaigns can become very expensive and can rarely be sustained for long periods.\n\nAs new products enter the market growth stage, the number of competitors tends to increase with implications for market share. Marketers may need to maintain awareness at some predetermined level to ensure steady sales and stable market share. Marketers often rely on rough and ready 'rules-of-thumb' to estimate the amount of advertising expenditure required to achieve a given level of awareness. For instance, it was often held that to increase brand awareness by just one per cent, it was necessary to double the dollars spent on advertising.\n\nWhen a brand becomes established and attains the desired awareness levels (typically outlined in the marketing plan), the brand advertiser will shift from an intensive advertising campaign to a \"reminder campaign.\" The objective of a reminder campaign is simply to keep target audiences aware of the brand's existence and to introduce new life into the brand offer. A reminder campaign typically maintains broad reach, but with reduced frequency and as a consequence is a less expensive advertising option. Reminder advertising is used by established brands, often when they are entering the maturity stage of the \"product lifecycle.\" In the decline stage, marketers often shift to a \"caretaker\" or maintenance program where advertising expenditure is cut back.\n\nWhile advertising remains important for creating awareness, a number of changes in the media landscape and to consumer media habits have reduced the reliance on main media advertising. Instead, marketers are seeking to place their brand messages across a much wider variety of platforms. An increasing amount of consumer time and attention is devoted to digital communications devices - from computers and tablets through to cellphones. It is now possible to engage with consumers in a more cost efficient manner using platforms such as social media networks that command massive audiences. For example, Facebook has become an extremely important communications channel. Moreover, social media channels allow for two-way, interactive communications that are not paralleled by traditional main media. Interactive communications provide more opportunities for brands to connect with audience members and to move beyond simple awareness, facilitating brand preference, brand conviction and ultimately brand loyalty.\n\nThe rise of social media networks has increased the opportunities for \"opinion leaders\" to play a role in brand awareness. In theory, anyone can be an opinion leader e.g. celebrities, journalists or public figures, but the rise of the digital environment has changed our understanding of who is a potentially useful influencer. Indeed, the digital environment has created more opportunities for bloggers to become important influencers because they are seen as accessible, authentic and tend to have loyal followings. Bloggers have become key influencers in important consumer goods and services including fashion, consumer electronics, food and beverage, cooking, restaurant dining and bars. For example, a recent survey by Collective Bias, showed that when it comes to product endorsements digital influencers are more popular than celebrities. Findings showed that only 3% of participants said they would consider buying a celebrity-endorsed item, in comparison to 60% who said they had been influenced by a blog review or social media post when shopping. For marketers, the digital landscape has made it somewhat easier to identify social influencers.\n\nThe following examples illustrate how brand awareness and brand advertising are used in practice.\n\nCoca-Cola is a well-established brand with a long history and one that has achieved market dominance. For any brand, such as Coke, that controls some 70 percent of market share, there are relatively few opportunities to enlist new customers. Yet Coca-Cola is always on the lookout for novel communications that not only maintain its brand awareness, but that bring the brand to the attention of new audiences. The company launched a campaign which became known as ‘Share a Coke’, with the campaign objectives; \"to strengthen the brand’s bond with Australia’s young adults – and inspire shared moments of happiness in the real and virtual worlds.\" The campaign, originally launched in Australia became so successful that it was subsequently rolled out to other countries.\n\nThe concept was to introduce personalized Coke bottles or cans. Popular names were written in a 'look-alike Spencerian script' which is part of the Coke brand's distinctive brand identity. The campaign organisers seeded social media by targeting opinion leaders and influencers to get them to them lead the conversation and encourage others to seek out “Share a Coke” for themselves. Within days celebrities and others with no connection to Coke were spreading the concept across social networks. The campaign extended the audience reach as more people were exposed to the messages. According to Coke's creative team, \"That [Australian] summer, Coke sold more than 250 million named bottles and cans in a nation of just under 23 million people\". This campaign helped Coke extend its awareness across a broader age profile as they interacted with each customer on a personal level. \n\nConsumers experience few difficuties assigning a personality to a brand and marketing communications often encourage consumers to think about brands as possessing human characteristics. When brands are infused with human-like characteristics, it can assist in communicating a brand's values and creating distinctive brand identities that serve to differentiate an offering from competing brands. “In an increasingly competitive marketplace, [some] companies rely on brand characters to create awareness, convey key product/service attributes or benefits, and attract consumers\" (Keller, 2003). \n\nThe use of anthropomorphic characters has a long history. For example, the Michelin man, employed as a memorable character to sell Michelin car tyres, was introduced as early as 1894. These characters benefit the brand by creating memorable images in the consumer’s mind while conveying meanings that are consistent with the brand's values.\n\nMcDonald's created a similar “anthropomorphic brand character” known as Ronald Mcdonald as part of its brand identity. For younger consumers, Ronald McDonald injects a sense of fun and mystery into the McDonald's brand. For parents, the character clearly signals that McDonald's is a family friendly venue. Characters help to carry the brand's identity and can be seen as non-human 'spokes-character', contributing to a strong brand differentiation. The likeability of the brands character can “positively influence attitudes towards the brand and increase [consumers'] purchase intention” \n\nThe well-known automotive manufacturer, Mini, investigated its brand perception in the UK by carrying out 55 in-depth interview designed to elicit key feedback about the brand's values. Consumers felt that the symbolic elements which represented the brand were that it was “fun, stylish and sporty image”. \n\nCustomer engagement with the MINI brand on a Facebook fan-page, promoted “positive effects on consumers’ brand awareness, through WOM activities and the purchase intention was achieved”. The brand, therefore, connected with users at an emotional level.\n\n"}
{"id": "13298130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13298130", "title": "Brand culture", "text": "Brand culture\n\nBrand culture is a company culture in which employees \"live\" to brand values, to solve problems and make decisions internally, and deliver a branded customer experience externally. It is the desired outcome of an internal branding, internal brand alignment or employee engagement effort that elevates beyond communications and training.\n"}
{"id": "23082016", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23082016", "title": "Carl Woebcken", "text": "Carl Woebcken\n\nCharlie Woebcken acquired Studio Babelsberg together with his business associate Christoph Fisser in July 2004 from the French media group Vivendi. They went public with the restructured Studio Babelsberg at the German stock exchange in 2005.\n\nBefore operating in Babelsberg, Charlie Woebcken worked as a management consultant at The Boston Consulting Group and subsequently in the management board of the Roland Berger & Partner consultancy. From 1998 he served as Vice President of the production and distribution company TV Loonland AG in Munich and as CEO of the former Sony subsidiary Sunbow Entertainment in New York. With his involvement as producer and co-producer films like \"Petterson and Findus\" were produced.\n\nAs head of programming at Berlin Animation Film GmbH (BAF), he acted as co-producer on a range of projects from 2002 until 2004, including the CGI feature film \"Happily N'Ever After\".\n\n"}
{"id": "40750068", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40750068", "title": "Caroline R. Jones", "text": "Caroline R. Jones\n\nCaroline Robinson Jones (February 15, 1942 - June 28, 2001) was among the first female African-American advertising figures.\n\nCaroline Robinson Jones was born in Benton Harbor, MI on February 15, 1942. She went on to graduate from the prestigious University of Michigan in Ann Arbor,Mi. Jones went on to work for advertising agencies such as J. Walter Thompson and BBDO. Jones later went on to found agencies that specialized in minority advertising, making her among the first to do so. She helped found Caroline Jones Advertising, Zebra Associates, and Mingo-Jones, these were among the first agencies to be created by primarily African American executives and also among the first to focus on minority advertising.\n"}
{"id": "3028612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3028612", "title": "Central location test", "text": "Central location test\n\nCentral location tests are a type of Quantitative research technique. They are product marketing tests performed in controlled environments, contrary to home-user tests, which take place where the products would actually be used. \n\nA Central Location Test (CLT) is one in which the research is conducted in a location such as a room in a shopping mall. In this instance, consumers would be recruited to participate in a research product at the mall and the research would be conducted and completed at that time.\n"}
{"id": "43724282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43724282", "title": "Claus Josef Riedel", "text": "Claus Josef Riedel\n\nClaus Josef Riedel (19 February 1925 – 17 March 2004) was an Austrian glassmaker, businessman, professor of chemistry, and chemical engineer. He was the 9th-generation owner of Riedel Crystal, an Austrian glassware manufacturer that was established in 1756. Riedel is best known for creating and producing grape variety-specific glassware designed to enhance types of wines based on specific properties of individual grape varieties. He was among the first glassware experts in history to recognize that the taste of wine is affected by the shape of the glass from which it is consumed, and is credited with first discovering the concept of variety-specificity in glassware, developing variety-specific glassware shapes and bringing these glasses to the consumer market. Riedel served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Riedel Crystal from 1957 until 1994.\n\nClaus Riedel was born in Polaun, now part of Kořenov, Bohemia (present-day Czech Republic), to Walter Riedel, a glassmaker, and Claudia Prollius Riedel. Claus Riedel was drafted by the German Army in World War II, where he fought Italian partisans in Tuscany and Liguria. In March 1945 he was captured by American forces and sent to a prisoner-of-war camp near Pisa, Italy for ten months. In January 1946, while being returned to Germany for repatriation, Riedel escaped by jumping from a train entering Austria.\n\nRiedel remained in Austria, finding a job with glassmaker Daniel Swarovski, who had once been an apprentice to Riedel’s great-grandfather Josef Riedel. He also enrolled in the University of Innsbruck in Tyrol, where he studied chemistry. After graduating, he spent five years working various jobs throughout Europe. In 1955 he was contacted by The Austrian People’s Party Prime Minister, Reinhard Kamitz, who invited him to take over the bankrupt Tiroler Glashütte glassware factory.\n\nWalter Riedel had been employed during World War II by the Germans to blow vacuum tubes for electronic equipment. In that capacity he had been captured by the conquering Russian army in 1945, and taken to the USSR as a prisoner of war. After ten years he was released, and found his way to Austria, where he joined Claus. With assistance from Swarovski, the two Riedels were able to reopen the glassware factory by 1957, turning it into today’s Riedel Glass Factory in Kufstein, Austria. Prior to World War II, the factory had produced heavy industrial glass, but upon reopening, Claus Riedel changed its focus to fine hand-made glass. Claus Riedel served as President and Chief Executive Officer of Riedel Crystal from 1957 until 1994, when he turned the reins over to his son Georg Josef Riedel, who later was succeeded by his son Maximilian Riedel, who is the current President and CEO of Riedel Crystal.\n\nAs a glassmaker, Riedel was interested primarily in function over appearance, and broke away from the traditional richly cut, heavy and thick glass designs of the time. He spent 16 years studying the physics of wine delivery to the mouth and taste buds and experimenting with different glass configurations, matching them with wines of different regions, grape origin and age to create stemware that would match and complement specific wines and spirits. He was among the first glassware experts in history to recognize that the taste of wine is affected by the shape of the glass from which it is consumed.\n\nFrom these experiments, Riedel created the Burgundy Grand Cru glass in 1958, made to enhance the flavors and aromas of the Pinot Noir and Nebbiolo grape variety, specifically for Burgundy, Barolo, and Barbaresco wines. This creation was first exhibited at the World Exhibition in Brussels, Expo 58 (The Brussels Worlds Fair), where it received a Gold Medal for its creative and striking design. It was acquired by the Museum of Modern Art in New York for the museum’s permanent collection.\n\nIn 1961, Riedel Crystal introduced the first full line of wine glasses created for different wines. Riedel perfected these variety-specific wine glasses in 1973 with the introduction of his most notable glass collection, the Sommeliers Series, the world’s first gourmet glasses.\n\nClaus Riedel was honored with 28 design prizes and awards for his creations. Notable honors include:\n\nDuring his lifetime, Claus Riedel was married five times to four different women (he married Ute two separate times).\n\nOn 17 March 2004, Riedel died in Genoa, Italy from heart failure while visiting family. He was survived by his fourth wife Ute, by two children from previous marriages (Georg Riedel and Barbara Riedel Orehounig), and a son (Wenzel Riedel) by Ute Riedel.\n"}
{"id": "19349803", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19349803", "title": "Commercial Alert", "text": "Commercial Alert\n\nCommercial Alert is a project of Public Citizen, a consumer advocacy non-profit organization. Commercial Alert opposes advertising to children and the commercialization of culture, education, and government. It works on issues such as commercialism, consumerism, product placement, native advertising, advertising in schools, ad-creep, and privacy. It works to reduce the negative impacts of advertising on public health, such as obesity. It was co-founded in 1999 by prominent consumer advocate Ralph Nader.\n\nThe mission of Commercial Alert is \"to keep the commercial culture within its proper sphere, and to prevent it from exploiting children and subverting the higher values of family, community, environmental integrity and democracy\".\n\nIn 2001, it complained to the Federal Trade Commission that Internet search engines were failing to unambiguously label paid results as advertising.\n\nIn 2005, the Federal Trade Commission rejected a request by Commercial Alert to identify product placement in television programs as advertising.\n\nIn 2007, Commercial Alert criticized Jack Daniels sponsorship of the television series \"Mad Men\".\n\nCommercial Alert\n"}
{"id": "35662968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35662968", "title": "Count Francesco Matarazzo", "text": "Count Francesco Matarazzo\n\nDon Francesco Antonio Maria Matarazzo, Count Matarazzo (March 9, 1854 in Castellabate – December 10, 1937 in São Paulo, Brazil), was an Italian-Brazilian businessman and noble who created a large business in South America, particularly in Brazil.\n\nHe was born in Castellabate, Salerno, Italy, the eldest of Doctor Costabile Matarazzo's nine sons, and Mariangela Jovane. At the age of 26, when Italian emigration to Brazil was widespread, he moved to the city of Sorocaba, São Paulo with his brothers, wife and children. Initially he sold oranges and lottery tickets and shined shoes, reinvesting the proceeds in new businesses, eventually including plantations of tea, coffee, corn, rice, rubber and cotton.\n\nIn 1890, he moved to São Paulo and with his brothers, Giuseppe and Luigi, founded Matarazzo and Irmãos. He diversified its business and imported wheat flour from the United States of America. Giuseppe took part in the company with a lard factory in Porto Alegre and Luigi with a deposit-warehouse in São Paulo.\n\nThe following year the company was dissolved and replaced by Companhia Matarazzo SA with 43 minority shareholders. This corporation also controlled the factories in Sorocaba and Porto Alegre.\n\nWar between Spain and Central American countries made it difficult buy wheat flour and he obtained credit from the London and Brazilian Bank to build a mill in São Paulo. From there, his business expanded rapidly to a total of 365 factories throughout Brazil. The conglomerate became the fourth largest in the country and 6% of the population depended on its factories in São Paulo. The business was renamed Indústrias Reunidas Francisco Matarazzo (IRFM) in 1911.\n\nThe Gestapo spy Hans Wesemann reported that:\n\nIn recognition of his financial and material assistance to Italy during the First World War King Victor Emmanuel III conferred the title of Count.\n\nMatarazzo died in 1937 after an attack of uremia. At that time he was Brazil's's richest man, with an estimated fortune of 10 billion U.S. dollars.\n\nMatarazzo Building\nSão Paulo Museum of Modern Art\n"}
{"id": "47737924", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737924", "title": "Coupe Deutsch de la Meurthe", "text": "Coupe Deutsch de la Meurthe\n\nThe Coupe Deutsch de la Meurthe was an international aeronautical speed competition instituted on 25 August 1909 by the French oil magnate Henry Deutsch de la Meurthe. The race was reinstated three times through the years at the initiative of the Aéro-Club de France, and later by Deutsch de la Meurthe's widow Suzanne.\n\nAnnounced in 1906, the first Deutsch de la Meurthe competition was a speed trial intended for all powered aircraft over a distance of 200 kilometres, to be flown as an outward leg of 100 km followed by a return to the starting point. The flight had to be made between 1 March and 31 October, and the performance was recognized only if the previous best performance was surpassed by at least 10%. A bonus of 20,000 francs was awarded each year for the best performance that had remained unsurpassed for eight months. The Coupe (cup), an objet d'art valued at 10,000 francs, was to be given to the first aircraft builder who won three consecutive competitions.\nDespite the substantial prize being offered, it took six years to attract participants. On 12 April 1912, Maurice Tabuteau piloting a 50 hp Gnome-powered Morane-Saulnier monoplane flew the circuit in 1 h 47 min 48 s, despite persistent navigation problems caused by fog. On 1 May 1912 Parisian Emmanuel Hélen completed the course at flying a 70 hp Gnome-powered Nieuport monoplane. Since no other pilot bettered this performance by more than 10% before 31 October 1912, Hélen became the first holder of the Coupe.\n\nOn 27 October 1913 Eugène Gilbert gained first place in the second competition for the Coupe, covering the course at an average speed of in a 160 h.p. Gnome-powered Deperdussin Monocoque.\n\nThe competition was interrupted by the First World War, but on 13 October 1919 it resumed using the same course, but the competition was now open for the entire year, and the trophy would be definitely kept by the first participant whose time remained unbeaten for eight consecutive months. Four aeroplanes participated in this trial: a 180 hp Hispano-Suiza-powered Gourdou-Leseurre monoplane piloted by Rost, a 300 hp Hispano-Suiza-powered SPAD-Herbemont piloted by Joseph Sadi-Lecointe, a 300 hp Hispano-Suiza-powered Nieuport biplane piloted by Bernard Barny de Romanet, and a 180 hp Le Rhöne-powered Nieuport monoplane designed by engineer Mary, and flown by the Danish pilot Leth Jensen. Taking off on 13 October 1919, Jensen flew the circuit at an average speed of 200.001 km/h (57 minutes). The next day, Rost reached an average speed of 210 km/h while de Romanet had an aircraft failure. On 15 October, Sadi-Lecointe flew a first circuit at 223 km/h, and then a second lap at 246.9 km/h and thus became the title holder. On 21 October 1919, de Romanet reached an average speed of 268.631 km/h which was insufficient to be homologated, because this performance was less than 110% of Sadi-Lecointe's performance. He followed it the next day with an average speed of 285.600 km/h which did count. Bad weather then stopped the competition, which was resumed just three months later. On 3 January 1920, Sadi-Lecointe, who had in the meanwhile had left Blériot-SPAD for Nieuport, reached with a Hispano-engined Nieuport-Delage NiD 29V. On 3 August 1920, he became the holder of the Coupe Deutsch de la Meurthe, his performance having remained unbeaten.\n\nIn 1920, following the ending of the Gordon Bennett Trophy competition due to a third consecutive French victory, the Aéro-Club de France decided to organize a new competition to replace it. This was named \"Coupe Deutsch de la Meurthe\" to honour Henry Deutsch de la Meurthe, who had died on 24 November 1919; the competition was funded by his family.\n\nIt remained a speed competition, but was now to be held on a given date. The competition was to be held as 3 laps of a 100 km (62 mi) circuit, with its start at Étampes and a turn made at la Marmogne farm at Gidy. The competition was open for three years and was international, with each country allowed three entrants. A sum of 60,000 francs was to be awarded each year for the best performance, and a cup valued at 20,000 francs given to the winner. In the case of the cup being won outright before the end of the competition, the winner would also received the remaining prize money\n\nThere were seven participants in this race, which was held on 1 October. No eliminating heats were needed to select from the five French pilot entrants, since Count Bernard de Romanet died when the wing fabric of his Lumière-De Monge monoplane detached at high speed during the elimination trials on 23 September, and at the last moment Hanriot withdrew their entrant, the Hanriot HD.22. This was a metal monoplane with retractable landing gear expressly built for the race, and which had been intended to be piloted by Rost. Nieuport entered two Nieuport NiD.29Vs piloted by Sadi-Lecointe and Ferdinand Lasne, and a NiD.41 Sesquiplan was entrusted to Georges Kirsch. A 700 hp Fiat-powered Fiat biplane piloted by Francesco Brack Papa represented Italy, and British pilot Herbert James flew a 450 hp Napier Lion-powered Gloster Mars I (G-EAXZ).\nA broken propeller forced Sadi-Lecointe to make a forced landing in a beet field at Cernonville, injuring an eye and both legs in the process. The wing fabric of James' aeroplane was torn away, and he had to make a forced landing. Brach Papa established a new Italian speed record, but the engine exploded before the finish. Thus, only two Nieuport pilots were left to finish the race, Georges Kirsch winning with a speed of 282.75 km/h (a new world speed record for a distance of 300 km); Fernand Lasne's speed was 259.03 km/h.\n\nThe 1921 circuit remained unchanged for the 1922 competition, which was held on 30 September. Nieuport-Astra entered a Nieuport NiD.29V piloted by Lasne and the sesquiplane piloted by Sadi-Lecointe, Jean Casale was piloting a Blériot-SPAD S.58, a design based on the S.41 fighter. Fiat and Gloster were presenting the same machines and pilots as the preceding year. Assigned to their factory pilot Berthelin, who was new to this competition, the NiD.41 was retired at the last moment. The tailless Simplex aircraft which was supposed to be piloted by Georges Madon had an accident during its tests, and Charles Nungesser was absent.\nIn his Nieuport sesquiplane named \"Eugène Gilbert\" (race number 5), Sadi-Lecointe covered the first 100 km at an average speed of 325 km/h (a new closed circuit speed record), but a spark plug popped out of its cylinder and passed through the engine cowling as he was turning around the airport pylon. The pilot was therefore forced to land, and the airplane hit a gutter which turned the aircraft on its back without injuring the pilot. James lost his maps during his flight and unable to find the turning point returned to the start. Jean Casale's SPAD S.58 \"Louis Blériot\" (race no.3) was victim of a radiator leak, and made a forced landing at Étampes and was unable to finish the race, as was also the case for Brack-Papa's Fiat R.700 which had a fuel pump failure. The first lap made by the Italian pilot at 288 km/h (179 mph) was not homologated since the aircraft had flown behind the time-keepers at the starting point, but he was offered a second attempt. Brack-Papa started a second time but retired when he realized he would not be able to beat Lasne, ) who won the competition with an average speed of 289.90 km/h.\n\nIn 1931 Suzanne Deutsch de la Meurthe initiated a new competition for the Coupe, which was contested for the first time on 29 May 1933. The trial was to be run in two 1,000 km stages separated by a 90 minutes refuelling stop, and was limited to aircraft with an engine capacity of less than eight litres. The starting point of the race was still at Étampes. Suzanne Deutsch de la Meurthe was offering one million Francs, and the Ministère de l'Air (Air Ministry) offered another three million.\n\nOn 24 May 1933 Captain Ludovic Arrachart was killed when his Caudron C.360 (race no.11) crashed due to engine failure at Maisons near Chartres while he was training for the competition. The event was won by Georges Détré flying a Potez 53 powered by a Potez 9B radial engine developing barely 310 hp at full power at a speed of , beating Raymond Delmotte's Caudron C.362 (race no.6) with a speed of , and also beating the only foreign competitor, Nick Comper flying Comper Swift \"G-ABWW\" . A third French competitor, test pilot Lemoine also flying a Potez 53, was forced to abandon the race.\n\nOn 27 May 1934, the race was a duel between the Caudron pilots, the Caudron firm presenting two racing aircraft designed by Marcel Riffard. Maurice Arnoux won with a C.450 at a speed of 388.97 km/h overtaking Louis Massotte's Regnier-engined (and sponsored) C.366 (360.72 km/h) and Albert Monville's Renault-engined Caudron C.460 (341.04 km/h). Nick Comper flew the Comper Streak (G-ACNC), but retired on the 6th lap of the afternoon session as problem with the undercarriage limited his speed. Georges Detre flying a Potez 53-2 retired after problems with his engine oil supply. The Potez 53-3 had problems with its variable pitch propeller and was unable to start for the second section,\n\nThe 1935 race was arguably the most exciting competition of them all, and was the consecration of the Caudron-Renault racers. Eight pilots were registered for this event, but the Nennig C-3 (race no.4) of Guy Bart was not ready, and the Régnier Martinet, a modified Caudron C.366, (race no.2) was damaged during its tests. Two Caudron C.560s were supposed to participate (race no.1 and 3), but were not ready. They were thus replaced by a Caudron C.430 and a C.450 with the same race numbers.\n\nThe course was over 100 km (62 miles), from Etampes aerodrome to Chartres Bonce and back. The race itself was in two stages, each of 1,000 km (625 miles).\n\nCharles Franco was the first to take off in Caudron C.430 (race no.1), but abandoned the race on the fourth lap as he was clearly out-classed by the other aircraft. It was followed by the Caudron C.460s of Yves Lacombe (race no.5), Raymond Delmotte (Caudron's chief pilot) (race no.8 ), and Maurice Arnoux (race no.6) respectively, this last entrant having to quit the race after seven laps, having run out of oil after a high-speed lap at . Albert Monville's Caudron C.450 (race no.3) was the last to take off. Only three aircraft qualified for the second part of the race, which was held during rain showers. Raymond Delmotte won, ahead of Yves Lacombe and Maurice Arnoux, flying the aircraft previously flown by Albert Monville .\n\nOn 13 September 1936, a last competition was organized, in which two Caudron C.461s, one Caudron C.450 and two Caudron C.560s took part. Yves Lacombe won this race with a speed of only , overtaking Maurice Arnoux timed at , a performance barely superior to what had been established in 1934, probably because of bad engine tuning in a competition presenting no real challenge for the engine and aircraft manufacturers.\n\n"}
{"id": "8210983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8210983", "title": "Detroit (video game)", "text": "Detroit (video game)\n\nDetroit is a turn-based business simulation game that puts one in charge of a fledgling automobile company starting in 1908 (the year the Ford Model T was introduced). The player is responsible for the financing, research and development, design, testing, production, and marketing of automobile product lines. The aim of the game is to be the most profitable automobile business in the world after 100 years.\n\nThe game is named after the American city of Detroit which is nicknamed \"Motor City\" due to the concentration of American automobile manufacturers in the city during the 20th century.\n\nThe player starts off with a factory and a number of distributors. The player is always set against three competitors, which can be either human or computer. The game tends to follow common steps in a project lifecycle which involves the planning of a product, development of a product, testing of a product and its release to the public. The player is expected to follow this process whenever they wish to develop a new automobile.\n\nEach turn is one month, and the game lasts approximately 100 years. At the start of each month, the player is presented with a money ledger showing the prior month's business. At this time newspapers also announce if cars are doing well or if there are special world events. World events that vastly effect gameplay are: World War I, The Great Depression, World War II, and the energy crisis of the 1970s. Most of these events negatively affect demand for all cars, with the exception of the energy crisis which targets low-mileage vehicles.\n\nIf at any time the player is bankrupt for long enough, the game ends with a scene of the player's avatar jumping out of a window.\n\nThe different aspects of the business are covered by different buildings at the factory (which is actually a pictorial representation of the main menu). Clicking on one of these buildings will bring up the following departments:\n\nThe manager's office acts as the player's interface to the numbers end of the business. Available from here is financial data concerning car models, factory production numbers, competition information, car reviews, and more. The player can manage the number of employees at factories, hire and fire new employees for factories, manage salaries (especially important to keep workers from striking), and commission reports to find out more about their automobiles.\n\nA unique feature available in the manager's office is the ability to print most reports to the computer's printer.\n\nThe research and development screen allows the player to invest their researchers into fields of development. These fields range from aesthetic changes such as body shape) to more technical ones such as new engines, suspension, brakes, safety and luxury features. The game references many real-world auto features as the fields progress, such as \"drum brakes\", \"windshield wipers\", and more.\n\nOne of the core parts of the gameplay is the ability to design new vehicles. Designing the body involves choosing what type of automobile (car, truck, etc.) and then three main sections of the car: the front, middle, and rear. Color can also be specified but has no discernible impact on the sales or reviews of the car.\n\nAs the player's research and development team develops more advanced features for the car, they become available on the design screen. However, all the parts have an associated cost and drive up the cost of the vehicle. They also affect the test results of the car. As time progresses, the public will demand different styles of car. For example, in the energy crisis, consumers will demand more fuel efficient cars. Ultimately it can be a game of trial-and-error finding a vehicle that the public likes.\n\nDuring the testing phase the car is tested and then given a rating for handling in a corner, braking, acceleration, capacity (cargo and passenger), fuel economy, and safety. Generally, the better performance of the car, the more likely its success, especially if it conforms to the demands of the time or excels against the competition.\n\nThe manufacturing and sales screen allows the player to manage the production and distribution of vehicles. A world map of territories is displayed, whereby the player can click individual territories to display the factory and showroom in a territory. Here one can open or close down new factories and showrooms or upgrade the level of factories to make them more productive. Supply routes between factories and showrooms are also set and prioritized on this screen. The price of vehicles in each territory can also be set here.\n\nHere the player can invest funds into marketing of vehicles through various forms of media. Some will be more effective than others depending in which year the player is at in the game. Examples of media one can advertise with include billboards, newspapers, women's magazines, radio and television.\n\n\n\"Computer Gaming World\" rated \"Detroit\" two stars out of five. Describing it as \"a puzzle game rather than a true strategy game\", the magazine criticized the fixed demand values, repetitive gameplay, and unrealistic depiction of historical events.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4627336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4627336", "title": "Directeur sportif", "text": "Directeur sportif\n\nA directeur sportif (French for sporting director, although the original French term is often used in English-language media; plural \"directeurs sportifs\") is a person directing a cycling team during a road bicycle racing event. It is seen as the equivalent to a field manager in baseball, or a head coach in football. At professional level, a directeur sportif follows the team in a car and communicates with riders, personnel and race officials by radio.\n\nThe directeur sportif warns of obstacles or challenging terrain, updates the team on the situation in the race, and provides mechanical help. The car carrying the directeur sportif also usually carries a bicycle mechanic with spare bikes, wheels and parts. It also carries spare water bottles, food and medical equipment.\n\nIn recent years the role has increased, in keeping with better team cohesion, tactics and communication and telemetry equipment. The directeur sportif can have split times, find where riders from other teams are in the race, and dictate orders to riders. This has made teamwork and tactics more important.\n\nA directeur sportif can also be involved in the riders' training and racing programme. Many are former professionals, such as Johan Bruyneel and Sean Yates.\n\nGord Fraser described his role as directeur sportif as follows:\n\nSeveral directeurs sportifs are also associated with famous riders whom they have nurtured. Patrick Lefevère with Johan Museeuw and Tom Boonen, Cyrille Guimard's relationship with Bernard Hinault, and later Laurent Fignon; Jean de Gribaldy with Sean Kelly and Joaquim Agostinho; and Bruyneel with Lance Armstrong are examples.\n\n"}
{"id": "3458480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3458480", "title": "Downtown Richmond, Virginia", "text": "Downtown Richmond, Virginia\n\nDowntown Richmond is the central business district of Richmond, Virginia. It is generally defined as being bound by Belvidere Street to the west, I-95 to the north and east, and the James River to the south. The Fan district borders it to the west, Highland Park to the north, Church Hill to the east, and Manchester to the south.\n\nRichmond is now widely considered Virginia's \"tallest\" city because of many tall buildings in what is Richmond's central business district, surrounding the Virginia State Capitol and many government office buildings (many dating to the New Deal). The James Monroe Building and SunTrust Plaza tower over 449 ft, and 400 ft, respectively, making them Richmond's tallest buildings, and the state's second and third tallest in the behind the Westin Virginia Beach Town Center at 508 ft. Other towering skyscrapers include the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, Bank of America Plaza, the James Center, Richmond City Hall, the Riverfront Plaza twin towers, the James Madison Building, Dominion Resources headquarters building, Main Street Center, the Central National Bank, and VCU Medical Center (which includes several hospitals, most over 200 feet, and the new School of Medicine under construction will be 12 storeys). Other important buildings Downtown include the Richmond Coliseum and the Greater Richmond Convention Center (which includes a tourist information office). Shockoe Bottom and Shockoe Slip also have nightclubs, bars, condo towers and lofts in various architectural styles.\n\nFrom the 1800s, downtown Richmond was a booming city, one of the largest in the nation, and a major player in the slave trade market. The district now known as Shockoe Bottom was the largest and most famous slave trade market in the entire nation, with people traveling from the South to trade, purchase, or sell slaves. When the Civil War came, though, Richmond became much of a military town, serving as the capital of the newly formed Confederate States of America. As the war came to an end, the South, in a last resort, deliberately set fire to Richmond, so that when the Union troops arrived, the entire city was ablaze. The troops tried to extinguish the fire, but 80 percent of the buildings of Downtown Richmond was completely burnt to the ground. In the era of Reconstrucion, Richmond devised to rebuild and prosper back to the top as it once was, and quickly rebuilt itself. Now that all of the slaves were free, Richmond saw new economic opportunities in other businesses, such as finance, retail, and banking. In the 1920s, America shifted into an Art Deco period, which included the construction of many fancy buildings in Downtown Richmond, notably the Central Bank Building. Also, department retailers saw investment in the downtown sector, and opened up flagships. This included Sears & Roebuck, Thalhimers, and Miller & Rhoads. But the slow yet massive move out into suburban areas began making its mark on Downtown, as these department stores expanded out to the new suburban shopping centers, and eventually Sears closed the downtown store, and Thalhimers and Miller & Rhoads went defunct in the 90s. Although retail was becoming less and less of a viable economy for downtown, banking and big business began booming, and in the 1960s, Richmond began a massive build-out, which included the construction of over 600 buildings. This would go on into the 80s, until the last few skyscrapers were topped out. In 1978, the Federal Reserve Bank of Richmond, designed by renowned architect Minoru Yamasaki, debuted. Now, the economy of Richmond is booming, with several Fortune 500 companies headquartered there. Dominion Resources, MeadWestvaco, and Universal are among those headquartered in the downtown district. MeadWestvaco built its new headquarters in 2010. However large areas of the town were allowed to fall into disrepair until the creation of large swathes of HUD priority areas in the worst areas. Developers were quick to take advantage of the generous re-development loans especially since there was a ready-made market in the form of students requiring cheap housing.\n\nThe Shockoe Bottom and Shockoe Slip districts have successfully begun the process of converting tobacco warehouses and factories into lofts and apartments. Canal Walk is under consideration for development both on the residential and service sector sides, however it is not clear whether there is real consumer appetite for additional restaurants, bars and coffee shops in Richmond. HUD developments in the Manchester district are hoping to start converting former factories into apartment and loft complexes. Residential conversion of the historic John Marshall hotel is also aimed to provide inner-city living space for an optimistic planning target for residency. This is echoed by the planned new construction of Shockoe Valley Heights, a large residential development in Shockoe Bottom. The partial redevelopment of Tobacco Row, a huge row of old tobacco warehouses near fashionable Cary Street is now complete and has attracted favorable attention. The economical loft conversions have proved popular among student tenants. Further housing and redevelopment is a theme favored by Mayor Dwight C. Jones, citing plans for large apartment and condominium towers on the Canal Walk and hoping that it will attract tourists to Richmond. Unfortunately this has not occurred, however the planning is now taking a more modest line aimed at enhancing the challenge of a rather dull and empty space. Plans for the demolition of the old Reynolds Metals plant are still awaiting funding of around $50 million to be followed by reconstruction of the old canal system and development of the infrastructure with HUD grant aid before private interests can be offered a suitable development area.\n\nRichmond's downtown is rich in history especially from the Civil War and reconstruction period, the \"Gilded Age\". A great deal of attention has been devoted to the potential tourism holds for the city, however the mainstay remains the VCU facilities and students together with the banking interests that form the backbone of the city. Industry friendly investment in infrastructure has enhanced Richmond's reputation and attracted business through the establishment of areas such as the Virginia BioTechnology Research Park, (located north of the Richmond Coliseum), which markets itself as a premier office park for research. However although much has been done in Richmond towards establishing a true urban core there are still concerns among both civic and private institutions that the city will risk crime and dilapidation in the Downtown areas unless investment is forthcoming. The City of Richmond Downtown Master Plan concretises the official line which is to build upward and create a Condo tower-based residential area Downtown. This will provide \"the perfect place to live, work, and play\". This will not solve the fact that there are no major national chain stores located in downtown or its direct vicinity. A rapid transport system to provide faster links between Washington and Richmond is also mooted as important to the create of New Richmond according to Mayor Dwight C. Jones: high-speed rail.\n\nDowntown Richmond also is home to some of the nation's biggest festivals, including the National Folk Festival from 2005 to 2007, which spawned the Richmond Folk Festival, which is now one of the biggest festivals in the state, drawing as much as 200,000 people in its weekend long schedule. It takes place each year on Brown's Island and the surrounding area. There is also the National Beer Festival, which was scheduled to come to Richmond for 2011, but will return next year on account that it was cancelled under mysterious circumstances. There are much more festivals that bring nearly a million people to Richmond every year. There is also the 2nd Street Festival in Jackson Ward, considered part of Downtown, and an Italian Festival, the Que Pasa? Hispanic Festival, and in the holidays, the James Center Grand Illumination.\n\n"}
{"id": "52346232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52346232", "title": "Eiji Mikawa", "text": "Eiji Mikawa\n\nEiji Mikawa ( \"\", 17 August 1933 – 19 June 1999) was a Japanese businessperson and rugby player, who played for the Japan national rugby union team in the 1950s. He worked for Yokogawa Electric from 1956 and became company president in 1993.\n\nMikawa was born on 17 August 1933 in what is now Suita, Osaka, where he graduated from . He then attended in Yokohama, where he became interested in rugby union. From 1952 he studied law at Keio University in Tokyo, where he joined the rugby team and became a member of the Japan national rugby union team. He played as a flanker.\n\nMikawa joined Yokogawa Electric in 1956. He became company director in 1976 and managing director in 1982. Around this time he was involved in negotiating joint ventures in Brazil. In 1983, as Managing Director he handled the company's merger with . In 1991 he became vice president of Yokogawa, and then president in June 1993. At the time he became president he had to deal with the recession that had hit Japan after the economic bubble in Japan burst in 1992, and in 1994 Yokogawa's operating income fell to 30% of what it had been in 1991.\n\nMikawa made the decision to take in 25 former employees (primarily those 36 and over) from Yamaichi Securities, which had gone out of business in November 1997.\n\nIn 1990 Mikawa launched an initiative to reinforce the (now Tokyo Musashino City FC) with Brazilian coaches and players. He announced in January 1994 his intention to have the team join the Japan Football League.\n\nMikawa had a reputation for being energetic, and earn nicknames such as \"Same\" ( \"shark\") and \"Raion\" ( \"lion\"). He was married and had three sons. Mikawa died from bile duct cancer at a hospital in Shinjuku on 19 June 1999 at 13:10. A company funeral was held for him on 21 June.\n\n"}
{"id": "28150851", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28150851", "title": "Emmanuel Besnier", "text": "Emmanuel Besnier\n\nEmmanuel Besnier (born 18 September 1970) is a French heir and businessman. He serves as the chief executive officer (CEO) of Lactalis. He is known as \"the invisible billionaire.\"\n\nEmmanuel Besnier was born on 18 September 1970 in Laval, Mayenne, France. His father is Michel Besnier and his mother, Christiane. His paternal grandfather, André Besnier, was the founder of Lactalis in 1933. He has a brother, Jean-Michel, and a sister, Marie.\n\nHe was educated at the Lycée de l'Immaculée-Conception, a Roman Catholic private lycée in Laval. He graduated from the ISG Business School in Paris.\n\nBesnier joined Lactalis as director of development in 1995. He took over as the CEO in 2000, when his father died.\n\nWith his brother and sister, he owned 83% of Lactalis. In June 2018, according to \"Forbes\", he had a net worth of $15.1 billion. He shuns publicity and has been nicknamed \"the invisible billionaire.\"\n\nAt the end of 2017, Lactasis has to recall 12 million salmonella-contaminated boxes of baby milk from 83 countries. Besnier was summoned by Bruno Lemaire to the French finance ministry.\n\nHe donates Euro 200,000 annually to the Francis-Le-Basser football stadium in Laval. He also attends their board meetings. He built a private box with tinted glass, from which he watches football matches.\n\nIn 2006, he was the recipient of the \"Mayennais of the Year\" award from the local Rotary Club.\n\nHe married Sandrine, a native of Laval whom he met at the lycée, at the in Laval. They have three children. They reside in the 7th arrondissement of Paris. They also live in a château in Entrammes near Laval that he inherited from his father. They summer at their house on the île de Ré and winter in Courchevel.\n"}
{"id": "10414820", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10414820", "title": "Farm Progress", "text": "Farm Progress\n\nFarm Progress is the publisher of 22 agricultural and ranching magazines. The company dates back nearly 200 years. Farm Progress Companies is owned by Penton Media.\n\nFarm Progress has the oldest known continuously published magazine with \"Prairie Farmer\", which was launched in 1841. The company publishes 18 regional magazines with local coverage of each agricultural community. Annually, Farm Progress produces four farm shows including the Farm Progress Show, which launched in 1953. \n\nThe company currently known as \"Farm Progress\" started in 1819 with the \"American Farmer\" magazine. \"Prairie Farmer\" started in 1841, followed by \"Wallaces Farmer\" in 1855, which helped chronicle the vast changes in Iowa agriculture as well as providing information to help farmers trim costs and boost profits. Three generations of the Wallace family; Henry Cantwell Wallace, Henry A. Wallace, and Henry Browne Wallace, owned and operated \"Wallaces' Farmer\", which was then a newspaper.\n\nThe Farm Progress affiliate Prairie Farmer purchased radio station WLS from Sears in 1928 and operated it primarily as a service to farmers. The station moved to the Prairie Farmer Building on West Washington Street in Chicago, Illinois where it remained for 32 years. \n\nIn 1959, American Broadcasting-Paramount Theaters bought the Farm Progress Group, largely to acquire WLS and consolidate it with ABC station WENR. In 1986, ABC merged with Capital Cities and in 1996, the Disney Company purchased Capital Cities/ABC. In 1997, the Disney Company sold the Farm Progress Companies to Rural Press. Rural Press merged with Fairfax in 2007. In 2012, Fairfax sold Farm Progress to Penton Media.\n\nIn 1953, \"Prairie Farmer\" teamed with WLS Radio in Chicago to host a field day where farmers could see first-hand the progress being made in farming equipment, along with seed varieties and ag chemicals.\n\nIn subsequent years, the show evolved to include seed test plots and field demonstrations. The show typically was held annually at different sites in Illinois, Iowa, and Indiana. As the event grew, it became apparent that temporary sites were inadequate to handle the large crowds and exhibits.\n\nIn 2005, a permanent biennial exhibit site was constructed near Decatur, Illinois which hosted its inaugural show in 2005. For the 2007 show, the site was expanded and upgraded with asphalt paved streets. The Decatur site is one of two permanent biennial sites constructed to host the show. \n\nBoone, Iowa, was selected for the show's second permanent biennial site. In 2008 the show site hosted its first show at its newly constructed permanent biennial facility. The show now alternates between these two permanent sites on an annual basis. The Boone site is developed on about at the intersection of U.S. Highway 30 and Iowa Highway 17, while the Decatur show site includes of exhibits and field demonstrations.\n\nThe Farm Progress Show is the oldest outdoor agricultural equipment exhibition in the United States with more than 500 exhibitors. Farm Progress Companies does not release attendance figures, but the Decatur Convention & Visitors Bureau estimates attendance of at least 150,000 for the three days of the 2007 show.\n\n"}
{"id": "44312847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44312847", "title": "Felix A. Obuah", "text": "Felix A. Obuah\n\nFelix Amaechi Obuah (born 16 December) is a Nigerian business magnate, politician and philanthropist originally from Omoku, Rivers State, Nigeria. He has been the chairman of the Rivers State People's Democratic Party since 2013 and was reelected in May 2016 for his second term. Obuah has a bachelor's degree in Business Administration from the University of Ibadan. With a business career spanning over 25 years, his diverse interests range from properties, real estate, hotels, resorts, oil, trading and construction.\n\nObuah has served as council chairman of Ogba–Egbema–Ndoni local government area in Rivers State. He has also served as the national chairman of Oil Mineral Producing Areas Landlords Association of Nigeria (OMPALAN). Obuah was a regular fixture of the 2015 elections, as he demonstrated unwavering resilience in his determination to ensure the election of Ezenwo Nyesom Wike. In June 2015, he was appointed Sole Administrator of the Rivers State Waste Management Agency.\n\nHis father Bethel Chukujindu Obuah, a devout Christian, died aged 85 in 2016.\n\n"}
{"id": "23160570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23160570", "title": "Gustav Aarestrup", "text": "Gustav Aarestrup\n\nGustav Nicolay Aarestrup (1 January 1916 – 15 November 2005) was a Norwegian jurist and businessperson. He was both chief executive officer and chair of Storebrand.\n\nHe was born in Steinkjer as a son of vicar Joachim Homboe Aarestrup (1866–1940) and his wife Anna Sophie Wiig (1872–1944). The family moved to Sagene two years later.\n\nHe finished his secondary education in 1933, took Oslo Commerce School in 1934 and took the cand.jur. degree in 1938. He worked as a junior solicitor in Mysen until 1940, then briefly as a police officer in Oslo before being deputy judge in Farsund from 1940 to 1941. In July 1941, one year after the German invasion and occupation of Norway, Aarestrup was arrested for an attempt to flee the country. He was first imprisoned in Kristiansand's Arkivet, and later sat in Møllergata 19 from 8 to 22 August and in Grini concentration camp until mid-October 1941.\n\nIn 1942 he left Farsund, being hired in the insurance company Storebrand. After a year as a secretary for the American finance attaché in Sweden in 1944 and for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs-in exile in London from 1944 to 1945, he returned to Norway where he became foreign superintendent in Storebrand. Also, in 1943 he had married Ingrid Christie Krohn, daughter of professor Ivar Trygve Krohn and Ellen Christie.\n\nHe rose in the hierarchy, via board secretary from 1948, assisting director from 1954 and vice president from 1957 to 1961. He was the chief executive officer from 1965 to 1976. He then chaired the board until his retirement in 1982. In both 1965 and 1976 he succeeded Per M. Hansson. During his time as chief executive of Storebrand, he was also the chief executive of Custos, Europeiske, Hypotekforsikringsselskapet, Kreditt-Atlas and Oslo Assuranceselskap. In 1970 he also took over for Hansson as chief executive of Norrøna. From 1971 to 1974 Aarestrup chaired the Association of Norwegian Insurance Companies.\n\nIn the mid-1980s Aarestrup was a proponent for a road tunnel to lead the European route E18 away from the city core of Oslo, specifically the square Rådhusplassen. Since the tunnel would be built under the Oslofjord, the project was called Vannlinjen. In 1984 Aarestrup became a founding board chairman of the company of the same name. Board members were Ole S. Gilbo, Ragnar Hurum, Johan B. Holte, Olav Selvaag, Erling Storrusten and Jan Bille. As it turned out, the Festning Tunnel project, proposed by the company Fjellinjen, prevailed. In 1986, when the tides were turning for Fjellinjen, Aarestrup referred to the project as a \"misère from beginning to end\".\n\nHe was also a board member of Norske Fortuna, Livsforsikringsselskapet Idun, Equipment Leasing Company, Skips A/S Myken, A/S Fidelio, Victor Jenssens Rederi, Waages Tankrederi, Waages Tankrederi II, Forsikringsselskapet Viking, and until 1985 in Elektrisk Bureau. He chaired the supervisory council of A/S Rosshavet, A/S Vestfold, Rederi A/S Ruth, Norges Skibshypotekforening and Andresens Bank, and was a supervisory council member of Autotransport. From 1976 to 1979 he chaired the Norwegian branch of World Wildlife Fund. In politics he was a member of the so-called \"economic committee\" of the Conservative Party of Norway, which was responsible for collecting party funds. Fellow members were Bjørn Bettum (chair), Johan H. Andresen, Per Chr. Frich, Aase Gudding and Per Strøm.\n"}
{"id": "5420155", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5420155", "title": "Horace Davis", "text": "Horace Davis\n\nHorace Davis (March 16, 1831 – July 12, 1916) was a United States Representative from California. He was the son of Massachusetts Governor John Davis and the younger brother of diplomat John Chandler Bancroft Davis.\n\nDavis was born in Worcester, Massachusetts. He attended the Worcester public schools and Williams College, Williamstown, Massachusetts, graduated from Harvard University in 1849, and then studied law in the Dane Law School of Harvard University, but did not engage in professional pursuits by reason of failing eyesight.\n\nDavis sailed for San Francisco, California, around Cape Horn in 1852, and upon arriving, engaged for a brief time as a gold miner, a lumber supercargo surveyor for a coastal steamer, and a purser for the Pacific Mail Steamship Company. In addition he helped found the Mercantile Library Association of California (its oldest public library). Under his administrative tutelage interest in the library was restored with his creation of a library catalog (an act which later lead to his poor eyesight). He resigned in 1855 and relocated to San Francisco in 1860 at which time he established the highly successful Golden Gate Flouring Mills and the Sperry Flour Company. He was elected a member of the American Antiquarian Society in 1862. When the American Civil War broke out, he served in the secretive San Francisco-based Home Guard acting to secure both the loyalty of California to then Union President Abraham Lincoln and the election of Leland Stanford as governor of California (by patrolling the polls on election day). He presided over the Produce Exchange of San Francisco from 1867 to 1877 until he was elected as a Republican to the United States House of Representatives of the Forty-fifth and Forty-sixth Congresses (March 4, 1877 - March 3, 1881), where on June 8, 1878 he spoke in support of a bill to restrict Chinese immigration. He was an unsuccessful candidate for reelection in 1880 to the Forty-seventh Congress.\n\nAfter his retirement from the Produce Exchange of San Francisco he presided over both the San Francisco Chamber of Commerce 1883-1884 and the Savings and Loan Society 1885 and served as a member of the Republican National Committee 1880-1888. In February, 1888 he was elected president of the University of California, but resigned in April, 1890. He was named president of the board of trustees of Stanford University by its original founder and served in this capacity from 1885-1916 where he effected its consolidation with the Wilmerding and Lux schools. He served as president of the University of California 1887-1890.\n\nMarried twice and a devout Unitarian, he contributed greatly to Starr King School for the Ministry, (formerly the Pacific Unitarian School for the Ministry). He was an active student of history and literature, his most noted work being an essay entitled \"American Constitutions\". He died after an appendicitis operation in San Francisco in 1916 and was buried in Cypress Lawn Cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40079966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40079966", "title": "How to Start a Business in Taiwan", "text": "How to Start a Business in Taiwan\n\nHow to Start a Business in Taiwan is a 2013 book by Elias Ek, a Swedish entrepreneur and writer. The book covers the main areas of information that a foreigner living in Taiwan who wants to set up a business or invest in a Taiwanese business needs to know. Launched during the 2013 Taipei International Book Exhibition (Jan 30-Feb 4, 2013) the book was very well received by both customers and society. The very first copy was handed over to Taiwan President Ma Ying-jeou (馬英九) who said he hoped the book would help bring more foreign investors to Taiwan.\n\nAuthor Elias Ek says the book is not about how to start a successful business but how to successfully start a business in Taiwan. This book covers Taiwan-specific issues like:\n\n\nEk says his ambition in writing the book is \"that when you hire an accountant to do the paperwork, you know the questions to ask. You would be able to point to a Chinese term and say: ’Is that what you are talking about?’ So you can get on the same page easier. My second ambition is that you could also do the whole process on your own.\"\n\nThe well read blog InTaiwan.de recommended the book but suggested the section about pensions was utterly confusing and some chapters were out of order.\n\nThe government-sponsored 100 Innovators show on radio station Uni FM interviewed Ek and the journalist Lilian Kim called Ek one of Taiwan's most successful foreign entrepreneurs.\n\nAuthor Elias Ek is from Sweden but has lived in Taiwan since 2000. In 2002 he co-founded B2B Marketing company Enspyre. While building his business he has also spent a lot of time supporting foreign entrepreneurs. In 2006 Enspyre sponsored what was probably the first seminar for foreign entrepreneurs and in 2008 Ek became the co-chair of the European Chamber of Commerce Taipei SME Centre, spending 3 years arranging seminars and workshops. He is currently active in a similar capacity at the French Chamber of Commerce.\n\nIn January 2011 Ek was at the Bangkok airport and discovered a book for foreigners about how to set up a business in Thailand. He was inspired to write such a book for Taiwan as well. Despite assembling a great team of interns to help, it took two years to make the book a reality.\n\nEk has also invested in many other Taiwanese startups and was one of the initiative takers to bring Startup Weekend to Taiwan.\n\n"}
{"id": "43697811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43697811", "title": "Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank", "text": "Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank\n\nThe Hungarian Industrial and Commercial Bank (Hungarian: Magyar Ipar-és Kereskedelmi Bank) was an important Hungarian bank in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nIt was a mediocre bank until the appointment of István Tisza - a prominent businessman and politician - as its president. Under his direction, it became the largest bank of Hungary within a decade.\n"}
{"id": "3743788", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3743788", "title": "Ingram Barge Company", "text": "Ingram Barge Company\n\nThe Ingram Barge Company is a barge company based in Nashville, Tennessee, United States.\n\nAccording to the company website, Ingram operates nearly 4,000 barges with a fleet of over 80 linehaul vessels and over 30 tug boats. The company operates on the Mississippi River, Ohio River, Cumberland River, Tennessee River, Gulf Intracoastal Waterway, Kanawha River, Illinois River, and the Monongahela River. In 1994 \"Forbes\" magazine listed Ingram as the 14th largest privately held company in the United States. Ingram Barge is part of the Ingram Marine Group, in turn part of Ingram Industries.\n\nIngram Barge Company (IBCO) was founded in 1946 by Orrin Henry Ingram, Sr., also known as Hank. The company started out as Ingram Products Company, transporting primarily petroleum and running terminals in St. Paul and Louisville. Over time, Hank expanded the barging side of the business and reorganized his fleet under a new subsidiary – Ingram Barge Company. He brought on his sons, Frederic B. Ingram and E. Bronson Ingram II, to be integral members of the company.\n\nIn the 1960s, IBCO acquired a sand and gravel yard, which would later become known as Ingram Materials Company, and officially put IBCO into the dry cargo transportation business. During this time of expansion, the family was hit with the unexpected: Hank Ingram died in April 1963.\n\nAfter Hank’s death, Bronson and Fritz continued their father’s vision of growing their barging business. They expanded into off-shore marine construction and started moving other types of cargo, among them coal and crushed stone. In 1978, the brothers split up Ingram Corporation. Bronson began his leadership of Ingram Industries Inc., which encompassed IBCO.\n\nIn 1984, Ingram purchased Ohio Barge Line, formerly owned by U.S. Steel. Neil N. Diehl came on board as Chairman Emeritus of IBCO to oversee the acquisition. During the 1980s, Ingram bought many boats and barges from several different transportation companies, allowing IBCO to become the third largest for-hire river carrier in the U.S.\n\nOn June 15, 1995, E. Bronson Ingram died. Ingram Industries was then organized, naming two of Bronson’s sons, Orrin H. Ingram II and John R. Ingram, as Co-Presidents. In 1998, Orrin was appointed Chairman of IBCO and in 1999, became President and CEO of Ingram Industries. John became Vice Chairman of Ingram Industries and Craig E. Philip was named President and CEO of Ingram Barge Co. Following Craig's retirement in 2014, Orrin was named CEO of Ingram Barge Co.\n\nIn 2002, IBCO acquired Midland Enterprises LLC, which included The Ohio River Company LLC and Orgulf Transport LLC. In 2005, Ingram acquired Riverway Company. These strategic acquisitions allowed Ingram to become what it is today – the largest carrier on the inland waterway system.\n\nPerhaps the most famous Ingram barge was ING 4727, which broke free of its moorings during Hurricane Katrina and landed in what had been a residential neighborhood of the Lower 9th Ward of New Orleans, Louisiana. It was suggested that the ING 4727 was responsible for the major breach in the Industrial Canal, although several major studies concluded otherwise. The ING 4727 was in the custody of Lafarge North America at the time of the hurricane. In 2008, a federal district court in New Orleans found that Ingram Barge was not responsible or liable for the breakaway of the ING 4727. In 2009, the U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fifth Circuit dismissed an appeal of the district court’s ruling, thereby officially ending Ingram Barge’s involvement in the ING 4727 litigation.\n\nCompetition includes Kirby, American Commercial Lines, Higman Barge, SCF Marine and ARTCO.\n\n"}
{"id": "29432322", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29432322", "title": "International Journal of Sports Marketing &amp; Sponsorship", "text": "International Journal of Sports Marketing &amp; Sponsorship\n\nThe International Journal of Sports Marketing & Sponsorship is a quarterly peer-reviewed academic journal covering issues related to the marketing of sports that was established in 1999. Since 2004 it has been published by International Marketing Reports. The journal is abstracted and indexed by PsycINFO and the Social Sciences Citation Index.\n\nThe journal has published special issues on such subjects as football (soccer), technology, Olympics, NASCAR, and scandal & corruption in sport, as well as issues featuring specific markets such as Australia/New Zealand and Latin America.\n\nPast editors of the journal are:\n"}
{"id": "37133101", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37133101", "title": "International financial management", "text": "International financial management\n\nc business environment; that is, trading and making money through the exchange of foreign currency. The international financial activities help the organizations to connect with international dealings with overseas business partners- customers, suppliers, lenders etc. It is also used by government organization and non-profit institutions.\n\nDuring the post-war years, the GATT was established in order to improve trade. It removed the trade barriers notably over the years, as a result of which international trade grew manifold. The financial participation of the trader's exporters and importers and the international transactions flowed significantly. \nIt started when different countries started “liberalizing” i.e. when countries agreed to open doors for each other and traded. The advancement of technology and liberalization resulted in the idea of financial management both domestically and globally.\n\nFinancial Systems may be classified as domestic or overseas, closed or open. A ‘domestic’ is one inside a country. Thus financial system in the , is an international financial system from the view.\nThe mean and objective of both domestic and international financial management remains the same but the dimensions and dynamics broaden drastically.\nForeign currency, market imperfections, enhanced opportunity sets and political risks are four broader heads under which IFM can be differentiated from financial management (FM). \nThe goal of IFM is not only limited to maximization of shareholders but also stakeholders.\n\nCompared to national financial markets international markets have a different shape and analytics. Proper management of international finances can help the organization in achieving same efficiency and effectiveness in all markets, hence without IFM sustaining in the market can be difficult.\n\nCompanies are motivated to invest capital in abroad for the following reasons\n"}
{"id": "17321797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17321797", "title": "InternetNZ", "text": "InternetNZ\n\nInternetNZ (\"Internet New Zealand Inc.\" and originally formed as the Internet Society of New Zealand) is a not-for-profit open membership organisation dedicated to protecting and promoting the Internet for New Zealand. Its vision is for a better world through a better Internet and it promotes the Internet’s benefits and protect its potential. InternetNZ focuses on advancing an open and uncaptureable Internet for New Zealand.\nIt provides a voice for the Internet in New Zealand. It lobbies the government. And it gives a helping hand to Internet users across New Zealand.\n\nInternetNZ is the designated manager for the .nz Internet domain, and through this role it represents New Zealand at a global level. It provides community funding to promote research and the discovery of ways to improve the Internet. It informs people about the Internet and ensures it is well understood by those making decisions that help shape it. Every year it brings the Internet community together at NetHui to share wisdom and best practice on the state of the Internet.\n\nThe elected InternetNZ council as at 26 July 2018 are Jamie Baddeley (President), Joy Liddicoat (Vice President), Sarah Lee, Kate Pearce, Dave Moskovitz, Richard Wood, Amber Craig, Kelly Buehler, Richard Hulse, Don Stokes, Kate Pearce, and Keith Davidson.\n\nThe Internet Society of New Zealand was originally formed in 1995 in order to take responsibility for the .nz ccTLD.\n\nAt the annual meeting on 4 August 2008, InternetNZ's Peter Dengate Thrush was made an InternetNZ Fellow because of his record of contribution to Internet policy issues in New Zealand and internationally.\n\nDespite sharing many aims with the Internet Society, InternetNZ has never been a chapter of that organisation. In April 2008, the organisation formally changed its official name to \"Internet New Zealand Inc.\" to recognise common usage and to specifically reflect these differences. InternetNZ did, however, join the Internet Society in 2006 as an organisational member.\n\n"}
{"id": "35942967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35942967", "title": "Jan Justus Enschedé", "text": "Jan Justus Enschedé\n\nJan Justus Enschedé (1807 in Haarlem – 1887 in Haarlem) was a newspaper editor and printer in Haarlem, the Netherlands.\n\nHe was the great great grandson of the founder of the Joh. Enschedé company, and the son of Jacobus Enschedé II. Like his second cousin and mentor Johannes Enschedé III, he was a member of the Dutch Society of Science and the Teylers Second Society. He worked for Enschedé III as editor of the Opregte Haarlemsche Courant from 1829, later joined by Johannes Enschedé IV. In 1850 they had a quarrel with the city council of Haarlem over the use of the city coat of arms in the newspaper. As city publisher they had the right, but Haarlem withdrew this privilege, claiming ownership. Jan Justus wrote a book explaining the case of Enschedé, which they won. In the 1860s the paper was considered the best in the country and attracted editors such as Conrad Busken Huet and Multatuli.\n\n"}
{"id": "8582534", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8582534", "title": "Jean-Claude Logé", "text": "Jean-Claude Logé\n\nJean-Claude Logé (born 30 March 1941) is a Belgian businessman. He obtained a master's degree in business science and finance at the Louvain School of Management (University of Louvain) in 1963. In December 1984 Jean-Claude Logé, together with Bernard Lescot and Pierre Herpain, created the ICT company Systemat. In 1996, the readers of the Belgian weekly business magazine \"Trends Tendances\" elected him Manager of the Year.\n\n"}
{"id": "11581362", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11581362", "title": "Jonathan Kraft", "text": "Jonathan Kraft\n\nJonathan A. Kraft (born March 4, 1964) is an American businessman. He is president of The Kraft Group, the holding company of the Kraft family's many business interests. He is also the president of the New England Patriots and owner/investor of the New England Revolution.\n\nKraft was born in Brookline, Massachusetts, to a Jewish family, one of four children of New England Patriots owner Robert Kraft and his late wife Myra Kraft. Robert Kraft is worth an estimated $4.8 billion, according to Forbes and ranks as 108th richest person in 2015. Kraft attended the Belmont Hill School for high school. In 1986, Kraft graduated from Williams College with a bachelor's degree in history. He currently serves on Williams' board of trustees. After working as a consultant at Bain & Company for two years, Kraft earned his MBA from Harvard Business School in 1990.\n\nSince his family's purchase of the team in 1994, Kraft has held the titles of Vice President (1994–1999), Vice Chairman (2000–2005) and President (2005–present), and thus has overseen the management of each department in the organization.\n\nWithin the National Football League, Kraft serves on two owners' committees. In March 2006, when the National Football League Players Association and the NFL were deadlocked in contract negotiations, Kraft designed the revenue sharing plan that was used for that version of the collective bargaining agreement.\n\nSince their inception in 1995 as one of the inaugural teams of Major League Soccer, Kraft has been the co-owner/investor of the Revolution, along with his father. Foxboro hosted its third MLS Cup in 2002, the first in Gillette Stadium and the first involving the Revolution as one of the teams vying for the MLS title. In front of an MLS-record crowd of 61,136, the Revolution would go on to lose the match, as well as their other four MLS Cup appearances in 2005, 2006, 2007, and 2014.\n\nThe Krafts' interest in soccer has extended beyond the Revolution. Foxboro Stadium played host to six matches of the 1994 FIFA World Cup, five of the 1999 FIFA Women's World Cup, as well as the 2000 Founder's Cup. In November 2005, the Krafts expressed interest in purchasing the Liverpool F.C., but the team was eventually acquired by a pair including Tom Hicks, the owner of the Dallas Stars and Texas Rangers, in February 2007.\n\nKraft also served as the owner/investor of the San Jose Earthquakes from 1999–2000, the two years which the Kraft Group owned the team. \n\nHe has 3 children, two sons and a daughter. In 1995, Kraft married Patricia Lipoma in a Jewish ceremony at the Chestnut Hill home of his parents. She is a convert to Judaism.\n\n"}
{"id": "19459454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19459454", "title": "Lavin Entrepreneurship Center", "text": "Lavin Entrepreneurship Center\n\nThe Lavin Entrepreneurship Center is housed within the College of Business Administration at San Diego State University (SDSU) and offers a blend of university curriculum and experiential learning opportunities to students across the SDSU campus. The Center provides academic curriculum through both a major and minor in entrepreneurship and hands-on learning opportunities through various co-curricular programs. The Lavin Center is a resource for SDSU students that provides an entrepreneurial foundation and encourages innovation.\n\nThe mission of the Lavin Entrepreneurship Center is \"to inspire entrepreneurship campus-wide and enable students to develop the entrepreneurial competencies necessary to compete in the global economy.\"\n\nSan Diego State University management professor emeritus, Dr. Daryl Mitton, formed the University’s original Entrepreneurial Management Center (EMC) in 1980. In 1986, the EMC received its first funding and the program has been dedicated to entrepreneurial research and development since.\n\nIn 2012, the Entrepreneurial Management Center was renamed to honor Dr. Leonard H. Lavin, founder of the Alberto-Culver company and a longtime supporter of the Center. Dr. Lavin has been actively involved with the Center as a guest lecturer and mentor since 2005.\n\nThe SDSU College of Business Administration works closely with the Lavin Entrepreneurship Center to offer a curriculum designed to meet the needs of students with an interest in entrepreneurship. The blend of academic and experiential learning is geared to provide students with a theoretical foundation as well as build and reinforce lifelong skills necessary to succeed as an entrepreneur.\n\nThe Undergraduate Entrepreneurship curriculum is designed so that students who wish to have deep immersion in entrepreneurship can do so through the specialization, while students – from both a business and non-business background – seeking some exposure to the entrepreneurial mindset can do so through the minor.\n\n\nThe Lavin Entrepreneurship Center supports the SDSU graduate program in entrepreneurship and acts as a physical hub on campus as well as a virtual web community that allows entrepreneurs, investors, and service providers to partner with one another and provide resources for start-up companies.\n\nThe case study lead curriculum is taught in an environment where students work in teams. Students are encouraged to think strategically, learn how to assess ideas and solutions, build appropriate financial and business models, and develop the right management and marketing strategies. The faculty in the program are a blend of tenured professors and industry experienced lecturers to provide a balance of theory and application.\n\nThe Lavin Entrepreneurship Center offers a wide range of co-curricular programs for SDSU students. Some of the programs available through the Center include:\n\n\nThe Lavin Entrepreneurship Center hosts and has students participate in select business plan competitions. Students have the ability to pitch their start-up ideas to business professionals, receive feedback, and have the opportunity to receive financial and in-kind awards. Current competitions the Lavin Center are involved with include:\n\n\nIn addition to the collections and holdings at the Malcolm A. Love Library, the primary academic library on the SDSU campus, the Lavin Entrepreneurship Center maintains the \"Lavin Entrepreneurship Business Library\", an extensive entrepreneurship-related library with an indexed collection of over 700 business plans, a state-of-the-art boardroom and numerous affiliations with local and national entrepreneurial organizations.\n"}
{"id": "50815349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50815349", "title": "Manthan systems", "text": "Manthan systems\n\nManthan is a business intelligence and analytics company with headquarters in Bangalore, India which employs more than 500 people and has been listed by Frost & Sullivan at the 2014 India ICT Awards. as a Deloitte Fast 500 and being named as the \"Company of the Year - Analytics\"\n\nManthan has received funding from various sources. One of its earliest funding rounds, with an investment of $15 million was led by Fidelity International and their recent funding of $60M was led by Temasek Holdings and Norwest Venture Partners. Atul Jalan, the founder of Manthan is named as one of the top 10 most influential analytics leaders in India for the year 2015.\n\nManthan Systems, a provider of business intelligence (BI) and analytical solutions for the retail and consumer packaged goods industries. Manthan develops and markets a suite of software products and synergistic services to global retailers enabling them to take data-driven business decisions. In 2016, Manthan announced a partnership with Tableau Software.\n\nAwards include Frost & Sullivan Company of the Year in Analytics - 2016 award, Winning \"Gold in Analytics\" at Express IT Awards 2015, Ranking #1 for Tier 1 retailers in the 2015 RIS Software Leader board, IDG Ventures Exceptional Business Growth Award.\n\n"}
{"id": "44359225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44359225", "title": "Margarita Louis-Dreyfus", "text": "Margarita Louis-Dreyfus\n\nMargarita Louis-Dreyfus (née Bogdanova; born 1 July 1962) is a Russian-born Swiss billionaire businesswoman, chairperson of Louis Dreyfus.\n\nBorn Margarita Olegovna Bogdanova () in Leningrad (now St Petersburg), she grew up in an orphanage and studied in a trade school as a retail accountant.\n\nOn 29 August 2016, Louis-Dreyfus and the Marseille mayor, Jean-Claude Gaudin, stated during a press conference with Frank McCourt that McCourt had agreed in principle to purchase the French Ligue 1 football team, Olympique de Marseille, owned by Louis-Dreyfus. The purchase deal was completed for a reported price tag of 45 million euros on 17 October 2016.\n\nIn 1988, on a Zurich to London flight, she met Robert Louis-Dreyfus. They married in 1992 and had three sons. Margarita, who had been working for a circuit-board equipment seller, became a full-time wife and mother. She took over as chairman of the Louis Dreyfus Group in 2009, following her husband's death from leukemia.\n\nIn 2016, she had a net worth of $9.5 billion. She is a Swiss citizen living in Zurich with her three sons (Éric born in 1992, and twins, Maurice and Kyril, born in 1998), according to \"Forbes\". Her partner is Philipp Hildebrand, the former head of the Swiss central bank. She gave birth to twin girls on 21 March 2016.\n\nMargarita is the second cousin (by marriage) of American actress Julia Louis-Dreyfus.\n"}
{"id": "49885682", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49885682", "title": "Marketing Hall of Fame", "text": "Marketing Hall of Fame\n\nThe Marketing Hall of Fame was launched by the members of the New York chapter of the American Marketing Association, the creators of the Effies and the GreenBook.\n\nHonorees are inducted in a ceremony held in New York City every spring.\n\nBeth Comstock, Senior Vice President and Chief Marketing Officer, General Electric;\nDr. Philip Kotler, S.C. Johnson & Son Distinguished Professor of International Marketing, Kellogg School of Management, Northwestern University;\nJoseph V. Tripodi, Executive Vice President, Chief marketing & Commercial Officer, The Coca-Cola Company\n\nDavid Aaker, Vice-Chairman of Prophet Brand Strategy and Professor Emeritus of Marketing Strategy at the Haas School of Business, University of California, Berkeley;\nYvon Chouinard, Founder of Patagonia;\nTrevor Edwards, President, Nike Brand, Nike, Inc.;\nShelly Lazarus, Chairman Emeritus, Ogilvy & Mather\n\nAl Ries, Marketing Strategist and Author ; Bob Greenberg, Founder, Chairman/CEO ; John Hayes, Former Chief Marketing Officer, American Express\n\nSeth Godin, Author, teacher, entrepreneur; Lee Clow, Creative Director, TBWA Chiat Day ; Esther Lee, Chief Marketing Officer, MetLife. \n\nNew York Chapter of the American Marketing AssociationOfficial Web Site\n"}
{"id": "28046168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28046168", "title": "McGill Executive Institute", "text": "McGill Executive Institute\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute is the corporate education and management development unit of the McGill University Desautels Faculty of Management in Montreal, Quebec, Canada. It provides a variety of public business seminars as well as custom executive education and coaching for all levels of management.\n\nFounded in 1956, the Institute has a full-time staff of learning design and program managers working with professors at McGill’s Faculties of Management, Law, Arts, Education and Medicine, external guest experts in specific fields, as well as visiting professors from universities worldwide. The Institute’s clientele includes businesses, not-for-profit organizations and government/public sector services.\n\nAfter establishing the first management diploma in 1906, McGill University began offering evening classes in business education in 1912. Following Canada's post World War II expansion, McGill University responded to the needs of senior executives by offering seminars in personnel management, marketing, and finance.\n\nConcurrent to business seminars offered by McGill, the Executive Development Institute, a private business education organization, began to offer the Executive Development Course (EDC) in 1949, in affiliation with the Montreal Board of Trade. It was developed with support from the Graduate School of Business at Harvard University. A precursor to the existence of many MBA and later EMBA programs, the EDC was designed to provide a comprehensive look at management practices in strategy, human resources, marketing, negotiations and financial acumen.\n\nIn 1956, the McGill Management Institute was founded to facilitate the more effective delivery of business seminars offered at McGill University. In 1973, the Executive Development Institute merged with the McGill Management Institute and, under the McGill banner, continued the facilitation of the EDC. The merger coincided with a move to its current home in the Bronfman building at McGill University on Sherbrooke Street in Montreal, where it underwent a significant expansion of its offerings. By 1984, the McGill Management Institute was offering 70 day-time seminars and 20 evening courses each year, in addition to the EDC.\n\nIn 1993, the McGill Management Institute was renamed the McGill International Executive Institute. It took its current name, the McGill Executive Institute, in 2002. It is a division of the Desautels Faculty of Management.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute has been noted for its approach to action-based learning, as well as for its international dimension. In his 2009 work, \"Executive Education in Canadian Firms\", Bruce Gordon R. Fowler states the following:\n\nEach year, the McGill Executive Institute provides approximately 20 to 40 open enrolment seminars addressing a number of business topics. The Institute’s longest running program is the Executive Development Course which was launched in 1949. The EDC has been expanded over the years, and is currently offered in three successive modules: the Executive Development Course, the Advanced Management Course, and Integrated Management Thinking. Together, these are referred to by the Institute as the Mini-MBA Series.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute also designs and delivers customized learning solutions specifically for an organization’s team of managers or executives. Services range from short workshops delivered in English, French or bilingual formats to global initiatives with delivery of modules to participants across management levels over several years.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute also offers an International Masters in Practicing Management (IMPM), as well as the Advanced Leadership Program (ALP). These longer, global programs occur over several modules and across multiple international locations, in conjunction with other universities: The Indian Institute of Management in Bangalore, India; Lancaster University in the UK; Korea Development Institute School of Public Policy and Management in Seoul, Korea; and INSEAD in France. Both the ALP and the IMPM were co-founded and are co-directed by Professor Henry Mintzberg.\n\nWell-known McGill faculty members include Professor Henry Mintzberg on advanced leadership issues and Professor Nancy Adler on organizational behavior. Recent guest speakers of note have included business leaders Daniel Lamarre, Larry Smith, Jim Cherry, Alan Allnutt, Paul Côté and Pierre Boivin.\n\nThe McGill Executive Institute partners with the Institute of Corporate Directors (ICD) in Canada to deliver the Director’s Education Program. It is also a registered education provider with the Project Management Institute (PMI) and collaborates with the Canadian Corporate Counsel Association to deliver development programs for lawyers on financial literacy.\n\n"}
{"id": "33341973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33341973", "title": "McKinsey's Marvin Bower", "text": "McKinsey's Marvin Bower\n\nMcKinsey’s Marvin Bower: Vision, Leadership and the Creation of Management Consulting is a book by Elizabeth Haas Edersheim, one of the first female partners of McKinsey. The book is about Marvin Bower, McKinsey visionary leader who transformed the company from an accounting and engineering practice into one of the world’s premier management consulting firms and who is considered to be the founder of management consulting.\n\nThe book has a very positive feedback from the consultant community. Particularly, Peter F. Drucker said the book \"makes Marvin come to life and perpetuates him as a role model\".\n\n"}
{"id": "8370770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8370770", "title": "Monopolistic competition in international trade", "text": "Monopolistic competition in international trade\n\nMonopolistc competition models are used under the rubric of imperfect competition in International Economics. This model is a derivative of the monopolistic competition model that is part of basic economics. Here it is tailored to international trade.\n\nMonopolies are not often found in practice, the more usual market format is oligopoly: several firms, each of whom is big enough that a change in their price will affect the price of the other firms, but none with an unchallenged monopoly. When looking at oligopolies the problem of \"interdependence\" arises. Interdependence means that the firms will, when setting their prices, consider the effect this price will have on the actions of both consumers and competitors. For their part, the competitors will consider their expectations of the firm's response to any action they may take in return. Thus, there is a complex game with each side \"trying to second guess each others' strategies.\" The Monopolistic Competition model is used because its simplicity allows the examination of one type of oligopoly while avoiding the issue of interdependence.\n\nThe appeal of this model is not its closeness to the real world but its simplicity. What this model accomplishes most is that it shows us the benefits to trade presented by economies of scale.\n"}
{"id": "42820312", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42820312", "title": "Olyphant &amp; Co.", "text": "Olyphant &amp; Co.\n\nOlyphant & Co. () was a merchant trading house or \"hong\" in 19th-century China. From its initial involvement in the \"Old China Trade\", the firm expanded into other countries including Great Britain, Australia and New Zealand. Olyphant & Co's business dealings in Peru caused the company to collapse in 1878.\n\nThe firm was founded in Canton (now known as Guangzhou) by David Olyphant and Charles N. Talbot, after their former employer, King & Talbot went bankrupt. In Canton, the two partners established themselves as supercargoes trading in \"silk, mattings and fancy articles\", operating from the No. 1 building of the American factory. Olyphant was a vociferous opponent of the opium trade, and the firm was one of the only large foreign trading firms not to engage in opium smuggling. The firm's anti-opium stance led to its offices becoming known as \"Zion's Corner\". Over the next 30 years, the company continued to grow in competition with other traders including Augustine Heard and Company, Russell & Company and Wetmore & Co., opening offices in Hong Kong, Shanghai and Foochow (now known as Fuzhou) and overseas in Australia and New Zealand.\n\nIn 1837, Olyphant & Co's ship \"Morrison\" made an attempt to repatriate seven shipwrecked Japanese sailors and at the same time open trade with Japan. The crew's efforts were thwarted after the Japanese opened fire and the ship was forced to retreat.\n\nAfter David Olyphant's son Robert Morrison Olyphant reorganized the firm in 1858, in the 1870s, partner Augustus Allen Hayes helped revive proposals for the Woosung Road Railway between Woosung (now known as Wusong) and Shanghai's Zhabei District in conjunction with Jardine Matheson and Augustine Heard and Company.\n\nOlyphant and Co. owned and operated the following clippers for the transport of tea and silk from China to the US:\n\nIn the mid 1870s, the firm reduced their interest in Chinese products and instead turned to the sodium nitrate business in conjunction with the government of Peru. As an extension to these dealings with Peru's rulers, Olyphant & Co. agreed to import coolie laborers by steamer from China. However, the firm proved unable to procure the requisite human cargoes, allegedly as a result of jealously on the part of their competition with support from the British government. To the surprise of the mercantile community, the subsequent losses incurred caused Olyphant & Co. to cease trading in late 1878 while owing money to creditors including Drexel, Morgan & Co. and the government of Peru.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6453699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6453699", "title": "Parmanand Singh", "text": "Parmanand Singh\n\nParmanand Singh (born 1905) was one of the three Indo-Fijians elected to the Legislative Council of Fiji in October 1929 when Indo-Fijians were given the first opportunity to elect their own representatives. The other two were Vishnu Deo and James Ramchandar Rao. Singh was a landlord from Ba and undertook several business ventures which included publishing newspapers.\n\nParmanand Singh was born in Yalalevu in the Ba District of Fiji in 1905. His parents had come to Fiji as indentured labourers and prospered in the opportunities available after indenture. He was educated at Auckland College, graduating in 1923. While in New Zealand, he played rugby, a game rarely played by Fiji Indians.\n\nOn his return to Fiji, he took advantage of a business opportunity by leasing land from Colonial Sugar Refining Company (CSR) and sub-leasing it to small farmers.\n\nLike most rich farmers from Ba, he joined the Arya Samaj and was chosen by Vishnu Deo to contest the Northern & Western Division in the 1929 general elections, the first in which Indo-Fijians were allowed to vote. He won easily with the support of Deo and the Arya Samaj, an organisation to which most educated Fiji Indians belonged. However, two weeks after being sworn in he and the two other Indo-Fijians representatives resigned when a motion asking for equal political rights for Indo-Fijians was defeated.\n\nHe was opposed to the immigration of Punjabis and Gujaratis, a cause later taken up by his brother, Chattur Singh who was later also a member of the Legislative Council.\n\nIn 1948, he left for India for the education of his children and returned 3 years later.\n\nHe saw opportunities in the printing industry and established a printing press in Ba, which he used to publish a newspaper, \"Awaaz\" (The Voice) in the Hindi language. He was unable to keep the newspaper in circulation due to a natural disaster and poor staff. He then moved to Lautoka and in 1956, started publishing another newspaper, \"Jai Fiji\", which remained in circulation until 1980.\n\nThe family involvement in Fijian politics has continued with his son, Anand Singh, also serving in the House of Representatives and Senate and as the Attorney General of Fiji in the Fiji Labour Party government of Mahendra Chaudhry from 1999 to 2000.\n"}
{"id": "21774259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21774259", "title": "Paulilles", "text": "Paulilles\n\nPaulilles is a protected area on the Mediterranean Sea, located between the towns of Port-Vendres, and Banyuls-sur-Mer in Pyrénées-Orientales, North Catalonia, France.\n\nPaulilles Recreational Park occupies a rehabilitated dynamite factory site protected as an ecological network by the Natura 2000 European organisation. Originally serving as the French Nobel Dynamite Factory, it was created by Nobel's associate in France, Paul François Barbe, and built in 1870.\nSeveral accidents over the years caused multiple deaths: the most important ones killed 20 workers in 1882 and 5 in 1885.\n\nIn July 1991, the installations were closed by the Société nationale des poudres et des explosifs (SNPE), and later sold to the Conservatoire du littoral in 1998 to protect the area from real estate developers.\nIn 2005, the General Council of the Pyrénées-Orientales launched the renovation to ready 9 buildings, destroy nearly 70, and landscape 17 hectares to turn Paulilles into a free and ecological recreational park, a museum on the industrial heritage of the factory and a traditional Catalan boat repair facility .\nPaulilles opens to the public in June 2008.\n\nPaulilles is located about 2 miles (3 km) south of Port-Vendres behind the Las Portas pass along the scenic Route Départementale 914. It is a small scale Mediterranean bay, forming a prairie down to the sea between the Béar cape, and the Oullestrell cape and forms three beaches: Bernardi, del Mitg, Fourat separated by small cliffs in the bay. \nThe original forest has been well preserved and is typical of the Mediterranean region. \nIt is composed of Aleppo pine (Pinus halepensis), Maritime Pine (Pinus pinaster), Stone Pine (Pinus pinea), for the Pinaceae)family. Also Holm oak (Quercus ilex), Cork Oak (Quercus suber) and Olive trees (Olea europaea).\nLocal flora is well represented with the Armeria of Roussillon (Armeria ruscinonensis Girard), the polycarpon of Catalonia (Polycarpon polycarpoides), the Thymelaea hirsuta, the Limonium tremolsii, and also Tamarix (Tamaricaceae), and Gattiliers (Vitex agnus-castus).\n\nAll the waters around Paulilles are also protected by Natura 2000, for its Posidonia oceanica, a species of seagrass that is endemic to the Mediterranean Sea and Coralline algaes that offers shelter and nursing home for the rich aquatic life. \nThis marine plants forms large underwater meadows of high importance to the environmental conservation of the region.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4109699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4109699", "title": "Renzo Barbera", "text": "Renzo Barbera\n\nRenzo Barbera (Palermo, 19 April 1920 – Palermo, 20 May 2002) was an Italian businessman and the chairman of Italian football club U.S. Città di Palermo from 1970 to 1980. He was nicknamed \"Presidentissimo\" and \"The Last Leopard\".\n\nDuring his presidency the \"rosanero\" team reached two Coppa Italia finals in 1974 (against Bologna) and in 1979 (against Juventus). After the experience as chairman of Palermo, he was elected president of the Sicilian Organising Committee of the 1990 FIFA World Cup. He died on 20 May 2002 of heart disease.\n\nOn 18 September 2002, the Palermo stadium La Favorita was renamed as Renzo Barbera.\n\n"}
{"id": "54169760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54169760", "title": "Saudi Real Estate Companion", "text": "Saudi Real Estate Companion\n\nSaudi Real Estate Companion is a book edited by H.E. Mueller and A.D. Williams. It focuses on bringing international standards to the market through a focus on all aspects of a standard real estate cycle.\n\nIt is one of the first non-Arabic language books covering Saudi real estate.The book attempts to address a large range of topics covering the best ways to approach real estate investment, marketing, development and valuations. These are approached in a way as to introduce many advanced techniques to the reader using standard (non-technical) language.\n\nThe work is divided into seven key sections:\n\nThe authors dedicated a significant portion to rel estate cycles in Saudi Arabia with a focus on historic, economic and psychological factors. At the same time they highlighted the key factor impacting the market as follows:\n\nOil price fluctuations can make the Saudi property cycle more exaggerated as oil price despite general overall stability over the past few years, can suddenly breakout of its typical range as was seen recently. The current weakness in oil prices which appear to have lasted beyond what was expected, is having an impact on government spending and will in turn impact the real estate market.\n\nHowever it should be noted that the author denied that this is the case.\n"}
{"id": "21249989", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21249989", "title": "Steen Hildebrandt", "text": "Steen Hildebrandt\n\nSteen Hildebrandt (born in 1944) is a Danish academic and author on business, organizational theory and management. He is Professor Emeritus of Management Studies at Aarhus School of Business, University of Aarhus and an associated professor at Copenhagen Business School.\n\nIn 2004 he founded the con sultency Hildebrandt & Brandi in collaboration with Søren Brandi. He was chairman of Sankt Lukas Stiftelsen in 2007-2008.\n\nHildebrandt is married and lives in the Frederiksberg district of Copenahgen. He has two grown-up children.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45648502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45648502", "title": "Tammy Barton", "text": "Tammy Barton\n\nTammy Barton (née May) is an Australian entrepreneur and the founder of MyBudget.\n\nTammy Barton (née May)\n\nTammy Barton (née May) is an Australian entrepreneur, businessperson and personal finance expert. She is the founding director of MyBudget, a personal budgeting service based in Australia that aims to help people take control of their finances through budgeting and money management.\n\nShe has won many awards, including twice being awarded the Telstra Business Woman of the Year (Entrepreneur-South Australia), 2007 and 2017. Barton is recognised as one of Australia's most influential businesswomen and she regularly appears in the media as an expert on personal money management and household budgeting.\n\nBarton started MyBudget as a home-based business in Adelaide in 1999 at the age of 22 after working at a debt collection agency where she witnessed the damaging effects of financial stress on people. The business has since grown into a national company that employs more than 250 staff in 15 offices across Australia. During that time, the company has delivered its money management services to more than 65,000 clients.\n\nOn 26 October 2012, Barton became an appointee to the BankSA Advisory Board. Chairman Rob Chapman said Barton brought \"strong credentials and a passionate commitment to helping South Australia prosper and grow\". To this day, Barton remains director of and spokesperson for MyBudget.\n\nFor her business achievements, Barton has been recognised with a number of awards and honours, see below. During her acceptance speech at the Telstra South Australian Business Woman of the Year Awards in October 2017, Barton announced that MyBudget would be opening its first international branch, in the United Kingdom, in 2018 to further what she described as her \"commitment to helping lead the global financial fitness movement.”\n\nBarton has won numerous awards throughout her career including being a two-time winner of the Telstra South Australian Business Woman of the Year Award (2007 and 2017). She has appeared in SmartCompany's list of Australia's Top 30 Female Entrepreneurs in 2015 through to 2017 and was awarded Female Entrepreneur of the Year by the League of Extraordinary Women in 2015.\n\nSummary of awards:\n"}
{"id": "39245727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39245727", "title": "Terron Schaefer", "text": "Terron Schaefer\n\nTerron Schaefer is the acting Executive Vice President and Chief Creative Officer for Saks Fifth Avenue. Before becoming a part of the Saks team, he was the Senior Vice President of marketing for Warner Bros. Worldwide. Schaefer is a buyer representing Saks Fifth Avenue on NBC's Fashion Star, seasons 1 and 2.\n"}
{"id": "3063650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3063650", "title": "Walter J. Kohler Jr.", "text": "Walter J. Kohler Jr.\n\nWalter Jodok Kohler Jr. (April 4, 1904 – March 21, 1976) was a member of the Kohler family of Wisconsin and was the 33rd Governor of Wisconsin, serving three terms from 1951 to 1957. He was a leading figure in state and national Republican Party activities. His role in the clash between Senator Joseph R. McCarthy and presidential candidate Dwight D. Eisenhower in 1952 has interested historians for decades. Kohler was for many years a sales executive at the Kohler Company and served as president at The Vollrath Company. He was also a distinguished Naval officer in World War II. He had two children - a son, Terry Jodok Kohler, and daughter, Charlotte Nicolette Kohler.\n\nKohler's father, Walter J. Kohler Sr., was Governor of Wisconsin from 1929 to 1931. His son Terry Kohler ran for governor in 1982 against Anthony Earl, but lost.\n\nWalter Jodok Kohler Jr. was born on April 4, 1904 on his family's lavish estate in Kohler, Wisconsin. His grandfather, John Michael Kohler had founded the Kohler Company in the late 19th century, and his father, Walter J. Kohler Sr. (1875–1940), was active in his family's plumbing supply business and served one term as the State's Republican governor (1929–31). Walter Jr.'s mother was the former Henrietta \"Lottie\" Schroeder (1869–1947), and he had three brothers: John Michael Kohler III (1902–68), Carl James (1905–60), and Robert Eugene (1908–90).\n\nWalter enjoyed many luxuries while growing up, but they were tempered by a strong-willed father who impressed his boys with the necessity of integrity, hard work, learning, good manners, frugality, and service to the community. Walter followed what was becoming a family tradition by graduating from Phillips Academy in Andover, Massachusetts, and Yale University.\n\nIn 1925, after college, Walter joined the Kohler Company. He knew much about the factory, having been employed there in a number of often grueling jobs during school breaks—another family tradition for males. In 1932, he married Chicago socialite Marie Celeste Holden (1900–74), a divorcée with a child. The couple had two children: Terry Jodok (1934-2016) and Charlotte Nicolette (b. 1936). In 1938, Walter and Celeste built a handsome estate, Windway, not far from the main plant; Walter lived there for the rest of his life. After World War II, he and Celeste divorced. In 1948 Walter married Charlotte McAleer (1912–95), a wealthy divorcée from Philadelphia.\n\nIn his last years, he and Charlotte traveled widely throughout the world and enjoyed long holidays in Antigua and Florida. He died in Sheboygan on March 21, 1976 following a heart attack. Obituaries emphasized Walter's character and integrity, noting his wartime service, his business success, and his three successive terms as governor.\n\nIn August 1942, Kohler joined the United States Navy as a Lieutenant and was assigned duty as a combat intelligence officer in the Solomon Islands. In January 1944 he became part of the crew of the USS Hancock, a huge new aircraft carrier of the Essex class assigned to the South Pacific as part of the Third Fleet. Kohler was the ship's air combat intelligence officer. The Hancock was in the thick of fierce fighting throughout the year. On December 3, Kohler was promoted to the rank of Lieutenant Commander, receiving the highest recommendations.\n\nOn April 7, 1945 the Hancock was hit by a Kamikaze plane that caused major damage. Walter quietly vowed that if he survived the war, he would go into public service to put an end to such violence and destruction. Soon afterward, exhausted by intense battle, he sought an honorable discharge. On September 24, he left the Navy. Now 41, Kohler had served 37 months of active duty. The Bronze Star Medal and the Asiatic theater ribbon with five battle stars were among his awards.\n\nWalter discovered after the war that the entire Kohler Company was in the control of his uncle, Herbert V. Kohler. The industrialist told the veteran that he had no future in the company. Using inheritance funds and borrowed money, Walter made an effort to run the Vollrath Company in Sheboygan, Wisconsin, a maker of kitchen utensils and dairy supply products. The Kohlers and Vollraths were related and had long enjoyed economic ties. With the aid of a key insider, Walter became president of Vollrath in April, 1947. Under his energetic leadership, the company began almost immediately to increase its profits. Between 1945 and 1950, the net worth of the company virtually doubled, and an assortment of new products appeared. By early 1958 sales had doubled in a decade. Walter led the Vollrath Company until his death. A short time later, Terry Kohler, Walter's son, assumed the reins of the highly expanded and profitable corporation. He had worked full-time for the company since 1963.\n\nWalter J. Kohler Jr. decided to move in politics in 1948 and he joined Team Stassen for the presidential elections. While this was unsuccessful, his networking and hard work in politics paid off when he became the 33rd Governor of Wisconsin in 1951. Walter had experienced politics first hand, being active in his father's reelection campaign in 1932. After returning from the war, he thought of running for the United States Senate. But that was also the driving ambition of Joseph R. McCarthy, an ex-Marine who had run for the Senate two years earlier. Walter had little choice but to step aside. In the late 1940s, Walter rose within the state G.O.P. by making friends, working for others, and winning the support of industrialist Tom Coleman, a dominant force within the Party. In 1948, Kohler was a delegate to the national convention and made it clear that he was a moderate Republican in the mold of the GOP's presidential candidate Thomas Dewey.\n\nDewey's unpredictable loss to Harry Truman prompted many Republicans, in the next few years, to employ \"Red Scare\" tactics in order to win office; this was the practice of irresponsibly labeling Democratic opponents as Communists or pro-Communists. Kohler would never be sympathetic to the right-wing, McCarthyite wing of the party. Still, he made infrequent gestures in this direction in order to appeal to the many Wisconsinites who were certain that their junior Senator's charges were on target. Moreover, Walter thought that at times, such as the case against Alger Hiss, McCarthy and his allies were on the right track.\nIn 1950, Walter was elected Governor, winning 59 of 71 counties in what was a Republican sweep of state offices. Legislators, journalists, and the public soon praised his friendliness, hard-work, and integrity. During the next two years Wisconsin prospered economically, had a budget surplus, and enjoyed tax cuts. Of 55 specific gubernatorial proposals for legislation, 47 were passed. The package included two civil rights measures, a hike in old age pensions, and improved unemployment and workmen's compensation benefits.\n\nDuring his reelection bid in 1952, Kohler worked successfully for the nomination of moderate Dwight D. Eisenhower. When the candidate was about to campaign in Wisconsin, Walter privately asked Eisenhower to alter a proposed Milwaukee speech that was critical of Senator McCarthy. At the heart of the request was the desire to unify Republican Party (GOP) and carry Wisconsin at the polls. Eisenhower reluctantly agreed, and the strategy, in large part, paid off. Republicans won the White House and control of Congress, McCarthy and Kohler (they officially supported each other) were reelected, and Republicans retained control of the state legislature. Walter admitted to being offered various positions in Washington, D.C., including at least one on the White House staff during his second term as governor. He turned them all down in large part because of the resistance of his wife to further political activity.\n\nThe GOP sweep intensified the commitment of local Democrats to gain power. Bill Proxmire, the man Kohler defeated handily, began to campaign the day after the election to win the governorship in 1954. Anti-McCarthy forces from the political center and left stepped up their nationwide efforts to bring down the Wisconsin Senator and end the Second Red Scare.\nKohler defeated Proxmire again in 1954. At the conclusion of his third two-year term in 1956, he had built an impressive record that included advances in higher education, redistricting, highway construction, public welfare, conservation, and the criminal and children's law codes. During his terms in office, 89 of the governor's 92 vetoes were sustained by the Republican-dominated legislatures. State government under Walter's watch was efficient, clean, and fiscally responsible.\n\nKohler and Proxmire campaigned diligently for the vacant Senate seat. The McCarthyite wing of the GOP in large part turned against Walter (as it had against Eisenhower), and this lack of support, accompanied by Proxmire's populist rhetoric and financial support from labor unions, prompted a dramatic upset win for the tireless Democrat. Proxmire would represent Wisconsin in the United States Senate until 1989.\nKohler played a role in the GOP National Convention of 1960, but thereafter he saw himself primarily as a businessman and fund-raiser for the American Cancer Society.\n\nWalter's health declined in the late 1960s and early 1970s. He had shingles and was diagnosed with skin cancer and had an operation to remove some cancerous tissue in 1972 at the Mayo Clinic. Then in 1975, Walter underwent heart surgery, which did nothing to improve his condition. He continued to deteriorate until he died of a massive heart attack at Sheboygan Memorial Hospital on March 21, 1976 at the age of 71. He is buried in Kohler's Woodland Cemetery.\n\n"}
{"id": "11625651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11625651", "title": "Willem Grasso", "text": "Willem Grasso\n\nWillem Grasso (20 April 1833 – 20 March 1903) was the founder of Grasso’s Royal Machine Factories Ltd.\n\nGrasso was born at Tilburg, the son of a smith. He moved with his family in 1845 to 's-Hertogenbosch. In 1858, he started his own little forge in ’s-Hertogenbosch. In 1868, he built a new factory / living house. Thanks to his good contacts with Jurgens, who had received the rights for producing margarine in 1871, Willem Grasso was the first to have the chance to produce machines for this fast growing industry. The name Grasso soon would be well known.\n\nIn 1894, his son Henri Grasso would take over the company. In 1896, he started a refrigeration department in Vught. In 1913, he returned to ’s-Hertogenbosch, when the opportunity came up to build a brand new factory there. In the same year, he was the first in the Netherlands to start producing refrigeration machines, using the name Grasso. He died in Boekel.\n\na few generations later(on the 13th or August in 2003) Willem Patrick Gijsbercht Grasso was born. A young very muscular and intelligent man capable of many things. he started off his life in a Dutch school but later moved on to the English system. Due to many mathematical contests, he made over 6.3 million euros before his sixteenth birthday. Half of his money was sent to charity and the other half he had invested in his own company. Which is now valued over 2.5 billion euros.\n"}
