{"id": "1425060", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1425060", "title": "AH7", "text": "AH7\n\nAsian Highway 7 (AH7) is a route in the Asian Highway Network. It runs from Yekaterinburg, Russia to Karachi, Pakistan. All together, it is long. It passes from Russia, Kazakhstan, Kyrgyzstan, Uzbekistan, Tajikistan, Afghanistan and Pakistan.\n\nThe AH7 shares its route between Merke (Kazakhstan) and Kara-Balta (Kyrgyzstan) about a hundred kilometers along with the AH5. In Kabul (Afghanistan) AH7 stops, but reaches to the city of Kandahar though AH1, where the AH7 resumes its route towards Pakistan.\n\nAccording to the manual of the Asian Highway Project in 2002 almost the entire route is paved. Only a distance of 72 km in Kyrgyzstan and a piece of 83 kilometers in Tajikistan are unpaved. As of 2017, the entire route in Kyrgyzstan is paved.\n\nIn Pakistan AH7 (N25 - Pakistan Road Networks) enters at Chaman. It passes through Qila Abdullah, Quetta, Mastung, Kalat, Khuzdar, Uthal, Goth Hussain and Hub, ending at Karachi. In Pakistan N25 is also called RCD (Regional Cooperation for Development) Highway.Maintained by National Highway Athuroty\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22076143", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22076143", "title": "AKRAK", "text": "AKRAK\n\nAKRAK (full name: Anomaalsete Keskkonnanähtuste Registreerimise ja Analüüsi Komisjon) was a commission, set up by Igor Volke in 1986 collecting reports of anomalous environmental phenomena, particularly UFO reports, throughout Estonia. For a while, it operated in the Tallinn House of Engineers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20097536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20097536", "title": "APCOM", "text": "APCOM\n\nAPCOM is an important press agencies in Italy.\nFounded by the Italian journalist Lucia Annunziata in 2001, is based in Rome, Italy and has offices in Budapest, Brussels, Moscow and New York City. Since its foundation has an exclusive partnership with Associated Press for Italy and Switzerland and in 2008 has signed an agreement with RIA Novosti. Is an exclusive partner in Italy of MINDS International.\n\nIn 2003 was acquired by \"Telecom Media News\", a division of Telecom Italia Media and provide report and news for La7 and MTV Italy news programmes, teletext and websites.\n\nOn April 29, 2009 the Italian businessman Giancarlo Abete (through \"Gruppo Abete\") has acquired a majority stake (60%) in \"Telecom Media News\".\n\n"}
{"id": "27473654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27473654", "title": "A Man Without Love", "text": "A Man Without Love\n\n\"A Man Without Love\" was the British entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 1966, performed in English by Kenneth McKellar.\n\nThe song is a ballad, with McKellar comparing a man without love and a man with love. He explains that a man without love is \"only half a man, this nothing\", and a man \"with love is everything in life\".\n\nFor the performance of the song in Luxembourg, McKellar wore the traditional Scottish kilt.\n\n\"A Man Without Love\" peaked at no. 30 in the UK Singles Chart in March 1966.\n\nIt was performed eighteenth and last on the night, following Ireland's Dickie Rock with \"Come Back to Stay\". At the close of voting, it had received eight points (five from Ireland and three from Luxembourg), placed ninth in a field of 18 (the worst placing for the United Kingdom until 1978.\n\nIt was succeeded as British representative at the 1967 contest by Sandie Shaw with \"Puppet on a String\".\n"}
{"id": "19609998", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19609998", "title": "Agenda 2000", "text": "Agenda 2000\n\nAgenda 2000 was an action programme of the European Union whose main objectives were to reform the Common Agricultural Policy and Regional policy, and establish a new financial framework for the years 2000–06 with a view to the then upcoming Eastern Enlargement of the European Union.\n\nIts stated goals were:\n\nThe reforms were first outlined in the documents with the title \"Agenda 2000\" published by the Commission in July 1997. Reforms were finally agreed by the 15 EU countries at the European Council meeting in Berlin in March 1999. Detailed legislation was later drafted and agreed to by all of the EU institutions.\n\n \n"}
{"id": "1908551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1908551", "title": "Aid", "text": "Aid\n\nIn international relations, aid (also known as international aid, overseas aid, foreign aid or foreign assistance) is – from the perspective of governments – a voluntary transfer of resources from one country to another.\n\nAid may serve one or more functions: it may be given as a signal of diplomatic approval, or to strengthen a military ally, to reward a government for behaviour desired by the donor, to extend the donor's cultural influence, to provide infrastructure needed by the donor for resource extraction from the recipient country, or to gain other kinds of commercial access. Countries may provide aid for further diplomatic reasons. Humanitarian and altruistic purposes are at least partly responsible for the giving of aid.\n\nAid may be given by individuals, private organizations, or governments. Standards delimiting exactly the types of transfers considered \"aid\" vary from country to country. For example, the United States government discontinued the reporting of military aid as part of its foreign aid figures in 1958. The most widely used measure of aid is \"Official Development Assistance\" (ODA).\n\nThe Development Assistance Committee of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development defines its aid measure, Official Development Assistance (ODA), as follows: \"ODA consists of flows to developing countries and multilateral institutions provided by official agencies, including state and local governments, or by their executive agencies, each transaction of which meets the following test: a) it is administered with the promotion of the economic development and welfare of developing countries as its main objective, and b) it is concessional in character and contains a grant element of at least 25% (calculated at a rate of discount of 10%).\" Foreign aid has increased since the 1950s and 1960s (Isse 129). The notion that foreign aid increases economic performance and generates economic growth is based on Chenery and Strout's Dual Gap Model (Isse 129). Chenerya and Strout (1966) claimed that foreign aid promotes development by adding to domestic savings as well as to foreign exchange availability, this helping to close either the savings-investment gap or the export-import gap. (Isse 129).\n\nCarol Lancaster defines \"foreign aid\" as \"a voluntary transfer of public resources, from a government to another independent government, to an NGO, or to an international organization (such as the World Bank or the UN Development Program) with at least a 25 percent grant element, one goal of which is to better the human condition in the country receiving the aid.\"\n\nLancaster also states that for much of the period of her study (World War II to the present) \"foreign aid was used for four main purposes: diplomatic [including military/security and political interests abroad], developmental, humanitarian relief and commercial.\"\n\nMost official development assistance (ODA) comes from the 30 members of the Development Assistance Committee (DAC), or about $135 billion in 2013. A further $15.9 billion came from the European Commission and non-DAC countries gave an additional $9.4 billion. Although development aid rose in 2013 to the highest level ever recorded, a trend of a falling share of aid going to the neediest sub-Saharan African countries continued.\n\nOfficial development assistance (in absolute terms) contributed by the top 10 DAC countries is as follows. European Union countries together gave $70.73 billion and EU Institutions gave a further $15.93 billion. The European Union accumulated a higher portion of GDP as a form of foreign aid than any other economic union.\n\n\nOfficial development assistance \"as a percentage of gross national income\" contributed by the top 10 DAC countries is as follows. Five countries met the longstanding UN target for an ODA/GNI ratio of 0.7% in 2013:\n\n\nEuropean Union countries that are members of the Development Assistance Committee gave 0.42% of GNI (excluding the $15.93 billion given by EU Institutions).\n\nThe type of aid given may be classified according to various factors, including its intended purpose, the terms or conditions (if any) under which it is given, its source, and its level of urgency.\n\nOfficial aid may be classified by types according to its intended purpose. Military aid is material or logistical assistance given to strengthen the military capabilities of an ally country. Humanitarian aid is material or logistical assistance provided for humanitarian purposes, typically in response to humanitarian crises such as a natural disaster or a man-made disaster.\n\nAid can also be classified according to the terms agreed upon by the donor and receiving countries. In this classification, aid can be a gift, a grant, a low or no interest loan, or a combination of these. The terms of foreign aid are oftentimes influenced by the motives of the giver: a sign of diplomatic approval, to reward a government for behaviour desired by the donor, to extend the donor's cultural influence, to enhance infrastructure needed by the donor for the extraction of resources from the recipient country, or to gain other kinds of commercial access.\n\nAid can also be classified according to its source. While government aid is generally called foreign aid, aid that originates in institutions of a religious nature is often termed faith-based foreign aid. Aid from various sources can reach recipients through bilateral or multilateral delivery systems. \"Bilateral\" refers to government to government transfers. \"Multilateral\" institutions, such as the World Bank or UNICEF, pool aid from one or more sources and disperse it among many recipients.\n\nInternational aid in the form of gifts by individuals or businesses (aka, \"private giving\") are generally administered by charities or philanthropic organizations who batch them and then channel these to the recipient country.\n\nAid may be also classified based on urgency into emergency aid and development aid. Emergency aid is rapid assistance given to a people in immediate distress by individuals, organizations, or governments to relieve suffering, during and after man-made emergencies (like wars) and natural disasters. The term often carries an international connotation, but this is not always the case. It is often distinguished from development aid by being focused on relieving suffering caused by natural disaster or conflict, rather than removing the root causes of poverty or vulnerability. Development aid is aid given to support development in general which can be economic development or social development in developing countries. It is distinguished from humanitarian aid as being aimed at alleviating poverty in the long term, rather than alleviating suffering in the short term.\n\n The provision of emergency humanitarian aid consists of the provision of vital services (such as food aid to prevent starvation) by aid agencies, and the provision of funding or in-kind services (like logistics or transport), usually through aid agencies or the government of the affected country. Humanitarian aid is distinguished from humanitarian intervention, which involves armed forces protecting civilians from violent oppression or genocide by state-supported actors.\n\nThe United Nations Office for the Coordination of Humanitarian Affairs (OCHA) is mandated to coordinate the international humanitarian response to a natural disaster or complex emergency acting on the basis of the United Nations General Assembly Resolution 46/182. The Geneva Conventions give a mandate to the International Committee of the Red Cross and other impartial humanitarian organizations to provide assistance and protection of civilians during times of war. The ICRC, has been given a special role by the Geneva Conventions with respect to the visiting and monitoring of prisoners of war.\n\nDevelopment aid is given by governments through individual countries' international aid agencies and through multilateral institutions such as the World Bank, and by individuals through . For donor nations, development aid also has strategic value; improved living conditions can positively effects global security and economic growth. Official Development Assistance (ODA) is a commonly used measure of developmental aid.\n\nAid given is generally intended for use by a specific end. From this perspective it may be called: \n\nOfficial development assistance (ODA) is a term coined by the Development Assistance Committee (DAC) of the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) to measure aid. ODA refers to aid from national governments for promoting economic development and welfare in low and middle income countries. ODA can be bilateral or multilateral. This aid is given as either grants, where no repayment is required, or as concessional loans, where interest rates are lower than market rates.\n\nLoan repayments to multilateral institutions are pooled and redistributed as new loans. Additionally, debt relief, partial or total cancellation of loan repayments, is often added to total aid numbers even though it is not an actual transfer of funds. It is compiled by the Development Assistance Committee. The United Nations, the World Bank, and many scholars use the DAC's ODA figure as their main aid figure because it is easily available and reasonably consistently calculated over time and between countries. The DAC classifies aid in three categories:\n\nAid is often \"pledged\" at one point in time, but \"disbursements\" (financial transfers) might not arrive until later.\n\nIn 2009, South Korea became the first major recipient of ODA from the OECD to turn into a major donor. The country now provides over $1 billion in aid annually.\n\nMost monetary flows between nations are not counted as aid. These include market-based flows such as foreign direct investments and portfolio investments, remittances from migrant workers to their families in their home countries, and military aid. In 2009, aid in the form of remittances by migrant workers in the United States to their international families was twice as large as that country's humanitarian aid. The World Bank reported that, worldwide, foreign workers sent $328 billion from richer to poorer countries in 2008, over twice as much as official aid flows from OECD members. The United States does not count military aid in its foreign aid figures.\n\nThe High Level Forum is a gathering of aid officials and representatives of donor and recipient countries. Its Paris Declaration on Aid Effectiveness outlines rules to improve the quality of aid.\n\nA major proportion of aid from donor nations is tied, mandating that a receiving nation spend on products and expertise originating only from the donor country.\n\nThe World Bank and the International Monetary Fund, as primary holders of developing countries' debt, attach structural adjustment conditionalities to loans which generally include the elimination of state subsidies and the privatization of state services. For example, the World Bank presses poor nations to eliminate subsidies for fertilizer even while many farmers cannot afford them at market prices. In the case of Malawi, almost five million of its 13 million people used to need emergency food aid. However, after the government changed policy and subsidies for fertilizer and seed were introduced, farmers produced record-breaking corn harvests in 2006 and 2007 as production leaped to 3.4 million in 2007 from 1.2 million in 2005, making Malawi a major food exporter. In the former Soviet states, the reconfiguration of public financing in their transition to a market economy called for reduced spending on health and education, sharply increasing poverty.\n\nIn their April 2002 publication, Oxfarm Report reveals that aid tied to trade Liberalization by the donor countries such as the European Union with the aim of achieving economic objective is becoming detrimental to developing countries. For example, the EU subsidizes its agricultural sectors in the expense of Latin America who must liberalize trade in order to qualify for aid. Latin America, a country with a comparative advantage on agriculture and a great reliance on its agricultural export sector, loses $4 billion annually due to EU farming subsidy policies. Carlos Santiso advocates a \"radical approach in which donors cede control to the recipient country\".\n\nA report by a High Level Panel on Humanitarian Cash Transfers found that only 6% of aid is delivered in the form of cash or vouchers. But there is a growing realization among aid groups that, for locally available goods, giving cash or cash vouchers instead of imported goods is a cheaper, faster, and more efficient way to deliver aid.\n\nEvidence shows that cash can be more transparent, more accountable, more cost effective, help support local markets and economies, and increase financial inclusion and give people more digity and choice. Sending cash is cheaper as it does not have the same transaction costs as shipping goods. Sending cash is also faster than shipping the goods. In 2009 for sub-Saharan Africa, food bought locally by the WFP cost 34 percent less and arrived 100 days faster than food sent from the United States, where buying food from the United States is required by law. Cash aid also helps local food producers, usually the poorest in their countries, while imported food may damage their livelihoods and risk continuing hunger in the future.\n\nThe World Food Program (WFP), the biggest non-governmental distributor of food, announced that it will begin distributing cash and vouchers instead of food in some areas, which Josette Sheeran, the WFP's executive director, described as a \"revolution\" in food aid.\n\nWhile the number of Non-governmental Organization have increased dramatically over the past few decades, fragmentation in aid policy is an issue. Because of such fragmentation, health workers in several African countries, for example, say they are so busy meeting western delegates that they can only do their proper jobs in the evening.\n\nOne of the Paris Declaration's priorities is to reduce systems of aid that are \"parallel\" to local systems. For example, Oxfam reported that, in Mozambique, donors are spending $350 million a year on 3,500 technical consultants, which is enough to hire 400,000 local civil servants, weakening local capacity. Between 2005 and 2007, the number of parallel systems did fall, by about 10% in 33 countries. In order to improve coordination and reduce parallel systems, the Paris Declaration suggests that aid recipient countries lay down a set of national development priorities and that aid donors fit in with those plans.\n\nLaurie Garret, author of the article \"The Challenge of Global Health\" points out that the current aid and resources are being targeted at very specific, high-profile diseases, rather than at general public health. Aid is \"stovepiped\" towards narrow, short-term goals relating to particular programs or diseases such as increasing the number of people receiving anti-retroviral treatment, and increasing distribution of bed nets. These are band aid solutions to larger problems, as it takes healthcare systems and infrastructure to create significant change. Donors lack the understanding that effort should be focused on broader measures that affect general well being of the population, and substantial change will take generations to achieve. Aid often does not provide maximum benefit to the recipient, and reflects the interests of the donor.\n\nFurthermore, consider the breakdown, where aid goes and for what purposes. In 2002, total gross foreign aid to all developing countries was $76 billion. Dollars that do not contribute to a country's ability to support basic needs interventions are subtracted. Subtract $6 billion for debt relief grants. Subtract $11 billion, which is the amount developing countries paid to developed nations in that year in the form of loan repayments. Next, subtract the aid given to middle income countries, $16 billion. The remainder, $43 billion, is the amount that developing countries received in 2002. But only $12 billion went to low-income countries in a form that could be deemed budget support for basic needs. When aid is given to the Least Developed Countries who have good governments and strategic plans for the aid, it is thought that it is more effective.\n\nHumanitarian aid is argued to often not reach those who are intended to receive it. For example, a report composed by the World Bank in 2006 stated that an estimated half of the funds donated towards health programs in sub-Saharan Africa did not reach the clinics and hospitals. Money is paid out to fake accounts, prices are increased for transport or warehousing, and drugs are sold to the black market. Another example is in Ghana, where approximately 80% of donations do not go towards their intended purposes. This type of corruption only adds to the criticism of aid, as it is not helping those who need it, and may be adding to the problem. Only about one fifth of U.S. aid goes to countries classified by the OECD as ‘least developed.’ This \"pro-rich\" trend is not unique to the United States. According to Collier, \"the middle income countries get aid because they are of much more commercial and political interest than the tiny markets and powerlessness of the bottom billion.\" What this means is that, at the most basic level, aid is not targeting the most extreme poverty.\n\nThe logistics in which the delivery of humanitarian occurs can be problematic. For example, an earthquake in 2003 in Bam, Iran left tens of thousands of people in need of disaster zone aid. Although aid was flown in rapidly, regional belief systems, cultural backgrounds and even language seemed to have been omitted as a source of concern. Items such as religiously prohibited pork, and non-generic forms of medicine that lacked multilingual instructions came flooding in as relief. An implementation of aid can easily be problematic, causing more problems than it solves.\n\nConsidering transparency, the amount of aid that is recorded accurately has risen from 42% in 2005 to 48% in 2007.\n\nCurrently, donor institutions make proposals for aid packages to recipient countries. The recipient countries then make a plan for how to use the aid based on how much money has been given to them. Alternatively, NGO's receive funding from private sources or the government and then implement plans to address their specific issues. According to Sachs, in the view of some scholars, this system is inherently ineffective.\n\nAccording to Sachs, we should redefine how we think of aid. The first step should be to learn what developing countries hope to accomplish and how much money they need to accomplish those goals. Goals should be made with the Millennium Development Goals in mind for these furnish real metrics for providing basic needs. The \"actual transfer of funds must be based on rigorous, country-specific plans that are developed through open and consultative processes, backed by good governance in the recipient countries, as well as careful planning and evaluation.\"\n\nPossibilities are also emerging as some developing countries are experiencing rapid economic growth, they are able to provide their own expertise gained from their recent transition. This knowledge transfer can be seen in donors, such as Brazil, whose $1 billion in aid outstrips that of many traditional donors. Brazil provides most of its aid in the form of technical expertise and knowledge transfers. This has been described by some observers as a 'global model in waiting'.\n\nA very wide range of interpretations are in play ranging from the argument that foreign aid has been a primary driver of development, to a complete waste of money. A middle of the road viewpoint is that aid has shown modest favorable impacts in some areas especially regarding health indicators, agriculture, disaster relief, and post-conflict reconstruction. Statistical studies have produced widely differing assessments of the correlation between aid and economic growth, and no firm consensus has emerged to suggest that foreign aid generally does boost growth. Some studies find a positive correlation, while others find either no correlation or a negative correlation. In the case of Africa, Asante (1985) gives the following assessment:\n\nSumming up the experience of African countries both at the national and at the regional levels it is no exaggeration to suggest that, on balance, foreign assistance, especially foreign capitalism, has been somewhat deleterious to African development. It must be admitted, however, that the pattern of development is complex and the effect upon it of foreign assistance is still not clearly determined. But the limited evidence available suggests that the forms in which foreign resources have been extended to Africa over the past twenty-five years, insofar as they are concerned with economic development, are, to a great extent, counterproductive.\n\nPeter Singer argues that over the last three decades, \"aid has added around one percentage point to the annual growth rate of the bottom billion.\" He argues that this has made the difference between \"stagnation and severe cumulative decline.\" Aid can make progress towards reducing poverty worldwide, or at least help prevent cumulative decline. Despite the intense criticism on aid, there are some promising numbers. In 1990, approximately 43 percent of the world's population was living on less than $1.25 a day and has dropped to about 16 percent in 2008. Maternal deaths have dropped from 543,000 in 1990 to 287,000 in 2010. Under-five mortality rates have also dropped, from 12 million in 1990 to 6.9 million in 2011. Although these numbers alone sound promising, there is a gray overcast: many of these numbers actually are falling short of the Millennium Development Goals. There are only a few goals that have already been met or projected to be met by the 2015 deadline.\n\nThe economist William Easterly and others have argued that aid can often distort incentives in poor countries in various harmful ways. Aid can also involve inflows of money to poor countries that have some similarities to inflows of money from natural resources that provoke the resource curse.\n\nJames Shikwati, a Kenyan economist, has argued that foreign aid causes harm to the recipient nations, specifically because aid is distributed by local politicians, finances the creation of corrupt government such as that led by Dr Fredrick Chiluba in Zambia bureaucracies, and hollows out the local economy. In an interview in Germany's \"Der Spiegel\" magazine, Shikwati uses the example of food aid delivered to Kenya in the form of a shipment of corn from America. Portions of the corn may be diverted by corrupt politicians to their own tribes, or sold on the black market at prices that undercut local food producers. Similarly, Kenyan recipients of donated Western clothing will not buy clothing from local tailors, putting the tailors out of business. In an episode of \"20/20\", John Stossel demonstrated the existence of secret government bank accounts which concealed foreign aid money destined for private purposes.\n\nSome believe that aid is offset by other economic programs such as agricultural subsidies. Mark Malloch Brown, former head of the United Nations Development Program, estimated that farm subsidies cost poor countries about US$50 billion a year in lost agricultural exports:\n\nIt is the extraordinary distortion of global trade, where the West spends $360 billion a year on protecting its agriculture with a network of subsidies and tariffs that costs developing countries about US$50 billion in potential lost agricultural exports. Fifty billion dollars is the equivalent of today's level of development assistance.\n\nSome have argued that the major international aid organizations have formed an aid cartel.\n\nIn response to aid critics, a movement to reform U.S. foreign aid has started to gain momentum. In the United States, leaders of this movement include the Center for Global Development, Oxfam America, the Brookings Institution, InterAction, and Bread for the World. The various organizations have united to call for a new Foreign Assistance Act, a national development strategy, and a new cabinet-level department for development.\n\nIn November 2012, a spoof charity music video was produced by a South African rapper named Breezy V. The video \"Africa for Norway\" was a parody of Western charity initiatives like Band Aid which, he felt, exclusively encouraged small donations to starving children, creating a stereotypically negative view of the continent. Aid in his opinion should be about funding initiatives and projects with emotional motivation as well as money. The parody video shows Africans getting together to campaign for Norwegian people suffering from frostbite by supplying them with unwanted radiators.\n\nSome of the unintended effects include labor and production disincentives, changes in recipients’ food consumption patterns and natural resources use patterns, distortion of social safety nets, distortion of NGO operational activities, price changes, and trade displacement. These issues arise from targeting inefficacy and poor timing of aid programs. Food aid can harm producers by driving down prices of local products, whereas the producers are not themselves beneficiaries of food aid. Unintentional harm occurs when food aid arrives or is purchased at the wrong time, when food aid distribution is not well-targeted to food-insecure households, and when the local market is relatively poorly integrated with broader national, regional and global markets. The use of food aid for emergencies can reduce the unintended consequences, although it can contribute to other associated with the use of food as a weapon or prolonging or intensifying the duration of civil conflicts.\n\nInternational aid organizations identify theft by armed forces on the ground as a primary unintended consequence through which food aid and other types of humanitarian aid promote conflict. Food aid usually has to be transported across large geographic territories and during the transportation it becomes a target for armed forces, especially in countries where the ruling government has limited control outside of the capital. Accounts from Somalia in the early 1990s indicate that between 20 and 80 percent of all food aid was stolen, looted, or confiscated. In the former Yugoslavia, the UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) lost up to 30 percent of the total value of aid to Serbian armed forces. On top of that 30 percent, bribes were given to Croatian forces to pass their roadblocks in order to reach Bosnia.\n\nThe value of the stolen or lost provisions can exceed the value of the food aid alone since convoy vehicles and telecommunication equipment are also stolen. MSF Holland, international aid organization operating in Chad and Darfur, underscored the strategic importance of these goods, stating that these “vehicles and communications equipment have a value beyond their monetary worth for armed actors, increasing their capacity to wage war”\n\nA famous instance of humanitarian aid unintentionally helping rebel groups occurred during the Nigeria-Biafra civil war in the late 1960s, where the rebel leader Odumegwu Ojukwu only allowed aid to enter the region of Biafra if it was shipped on his planes. These shipments of humanitarian aid helped the rebel leader to circumvent the siege on Biafra placed by the Nigerian government. These stolen shipments of humanitarian aid caused the Biafran civil war to last years longer than it would have without the aid, claim experts.\n\nThe most well-known instances of aid being seized by local warlords in recent years come from Somalia, where food aid is funneled to the Shabab, a Somali militant group that controls much of Southern Somalia. Moreover, reports reveal that Somali contractors for aid agencies have formed a cartel and act as important power brokers, arming opposition groups with the profits made from the stolen aid”\n\nRwandan government appropriation of food aid in the early 1990s was so problematic that aid shipments were canceled multiple times. In Zimbabwe in 2003, Human Rights Watch documented examples of residents being forced to display ZANU-PF Party membership cards before being given government food aid. In eastern Zaire, leaders of the Hema ethnic group allowed the arrival of international aid organizations only upon agreement not give aid to the Lendu (opposition of Hema). Humanitarian aid workers have acknowledged the threat of stolen aid and have developed strategies for minimizing the amount of theft en route. However, aid can fuel conflict even if successfully delivered to the intended population as the recipient populations often include members of rebel groups or militia groups, or aid is “taxed” by such groups.\n\nAcademic research emphatically demonstrates that on average food aid promotes civil conflict. Namely, increase in US food aid leads to an increase in the incidence of armed civil conflict in the recipient country. Another correlation demonstrated is food aid prolonging existing conflicts, specifically among countries with a recent history of civil conflict. However, it is important to note that this does not find an effect on conflict in countries without a recent history of civil conflict. Moreover, different types of international aid other than food which is easily stolen during its delivery, namely technical assistance and cash transfers, can have different effects on civil conflict.\n\nCommunity-driven development (CDD) programs have become one of the most popular tools for delivering development aid. In 2012, the World Bank supported 400 CDD programs in 94 countries, valued at $30 billion USD. Academic research scrutinizes the effect of community-driven development programs on civil conflict. The Philippines’ flagship development program KALAHI-CIDSS is concluded to have led to an increase in violent conflict in the country. After the program’s start, some municipalities experienced and statistically significant and large increase in casualties, as compared to other municipalities who were not part of the CDD. Casualties suffered by government forces as a result of insurgent-initiated attacks increased significantly.\n\nThese results are consistent with other examples of humanitarian aid exacerbating civil conflict. One explanation is that insurgents attempt to sabotage CDD programs for political reasons – successful implementation of a government-supported project could weaken the insurgents’ position. Related findings of Beath, Christia, and Enikolopov further demonstrate that a successful community-driven development program increased support for the government in Afghanistan by exacerbating conflict in the short term, revealing an unintended consequence of the aid.\n\nOne of the economic cases against aid transfers, in the form of food or other resources, is that it discourages recipients from working, everything else held constant. This claim undermines the support for transfers, as heated debates over the past decade about domestic welfare programs in Europe and North America show. Targeting errors of inclusion are said to magnify the labor market disincentive effects inherent to food aid (or any other form of transfer) by providing benefits to those who are most able and willing to turn transfers into leisure instead of increased food consumption.\n\nLabor distortion can arise when Food-For-Work (FFW) Programs are more attractive than work on recipients’ own farms/businesses, either because the FFW pays immediately, or because the household considers the payoffs to the FFW project to be higher than the returns to labor on its own plots. Food aid programs hence take productive inputs away from local private production, creating a distortion due to substitution effects, rather than income effects.\n\nBeyond labor disincentive effects, food aid can have the unintended consequence of discouraging household-level production. Poor timing of aid and FFW wages that are above market rates cause negative dependency by diverting labor from local private uses, particularly if FFW obligations decrease labor on a household's own enterprises during a critical part of the production cycle.This type of disincentive impacts not only food aid recipients but also producers who sell to areas receiving food aid flows.\n\nFFW programs are often used to counter a perceived dependency syndrome associated with freely distributed food. However, poorly designed FFW programs may cause more risk of harming local production than the benefits of free food distribution. In structurally weak economies, FFW program design is not as simple as determining the appropriate wage rate. Empirical evidence from rural Ethiopia shows that higher-income households had excess labor and thus lower (not higher as expected) value of time, and therefore allocated this labor to FFW schemes in which poorer households could not afford to participate due to labor scarcity. Similarly, FFW programs in Cambodia have shown to be an additional, not alternative, source of employment and that the very poor rarely participate due to labor constraints.\n\nFurthermore, food aid can drive down local or national food prices in at least three ways.\n\n\nFood aid that is relatively inappropriate to local uses can distort consumption patterns.\n\nFood aid is usually exported from temperate climate zones and is often different than the staple crops grown in recipient countries, which usually have a tropical climate. The logic of food export inherently entails some effort to change consumers’ preferences, to introduce recipients to new foods and thereby stimulate demand for foods with which recipients were previously unfamiliar or which otherwise represent only a small portion of their diet.\n\nMassive shipments of wheat and rice into the West African Sahel during the food crises of the mid-1970s and mid-1980s were widely believed to stimulate a shift in consumer demand from indigenous coarse grains – millet and sorghum – to western crops such as wheat. During the 2000 drought in northern Kenya, the price of changaa (a locally distilled alcohol) fell significantly and consumption seems to have increased as a result. This was a result of grain food aid inflows increasing the availability of low-cost inputs to the informal distilling industry.\n\nRecent research suggests that patterns of food aid distribution may inadvertently affect the natural environment, by changing consumption patterns and by inducing locational change in grazing and other activities. A pair of studies in Northern Kenya found that food aid distribution seems to induce greater spatial concentration of livestock around distribution points, causing localized rangeland degradation, and that food aid provided as whole grain requires more cooking, and thus more fuelwood, stimulating local deforestation.\n\nThe welfare impacts of any food aid-induced changes in food prices are decidedly mixed, underscoring the reality that it is impossible to generate only positive intended effects from an international aid program.\n\nAid is seldom given from motives of pure altruism; for instance it is often given as a means of supporting an ally in international politics. It may also be given with the intention of influencing the political process in the receiving nation. Whether one considers such aid helpful may depend on whether one agrees with the agenda being pursued by the donor nation in a particular case. During the conflict between communism and capitalism in the twentieth century, the champions of those ideologies – the Soviet Union and the United States – each used aid to influence the internal politics of other nations, and to support their weaker allies. Perhaps the most notable example was the Marshall Plan by which the United States, largely successfully, sought to pull European nations toward capitalism and away from communism. Aid to underdeveloped countries has sometimes been criticized as being more in the interest of the donor than the recipient, or even a form of neocolonialism.\nS.K.B'. Asante lists some specific motives a donor may have for giving aid: defence support, market expansion, foreign investment, missionary enterprise, cultural extension. In recent decades, aid by organizations such as the International Monetary Fund and the World Bank has been criticized as being primarily a tool used to open new areas up to global capitalists, and being only secondarily, if at all, concerned with the wellbeing of the people in the recipient countries.\n\nAs a result of these numerous criticisms, other proposals for supporting developing economies and poverty stricken societies. Some analysts, such as researchers at the Overseas Development Institute, argue that current support for the developing world suffers from a policy incoherence and that while some policies are designed to support the third world, other domestic policies undermine its impact, examples include:\n\nOne measure of this policy incoherence is the Commitment to Development Index (CDI) published by the Center for Global Development . The index measures and evaluates 22 of the world's richest countries on policies that affect developing countries, in addition to simply aid. It shows that development policy is more than just aid; it also takes into account trade, investment, migration, environment, security, and technology.\n\nThus, some states are beginning to go \"Beyond Aid\" and instead seek to ensure there is a policy coherence, for example see Common Agricultural Policy reform or Doha Development Round. This approach might see the nature of aid change from loans, debt cancellation, budget support etc., to supporting developing countries. This requires a strong political will, however, the results could potentially make aid far more effective and efficient.\n\nPrivate giving includes aid from charities, philanthropic organizations or businesses to recipient countries or programs within recipient countries. Garrett has observed that aid donor organizations have developed their own industry known as the \"aid industry\". Private donors to countries in need of aid are a large part of this, by making money while finding the next best solution for the country in need of aid. These private outside donors take away from local entrepreneurship leaving countries in need of aid reliant on them.\n\nResearchers looked at how Ghana compares with groups of other countries that have been transitioning out of aid. They talk about how the World Bank reclassified Ghana from a low income country to a lower middle income country in 2010. They found Ghana experiencing significant improvements across development indicators since early 2000s with different changes for different indicators which is consistent or better than lower middle income country averages.\n\nAfter World War II the Marshall Plan (and similar programs for Asia, and the Point Four program for Latin America) became the major American aid program, and became a model for its foreign aid policies for decades. The U.S. gave away about $20 billion in Marshall Plan grants and other grants and low-interest long-term loans to Western Europe, 1945 to 1951. Historian Michael J. Hogan argues that American aid was critical in stabilizing the economy and politics of Western Europe. It brought in modern management that dramatically increased productivity, and encouraged cooperation between labor and management, and among the member states. Local Communist parties were opposed, and they lost prestige and influence and a role in government. In strategic terms, says Hogan, the Marshall Plan strengthened the West against The possibility of a Communist invasion or political takeover. However, the Marshall Plan's role in the rapid recovery has been debated. Most reject the idea that it only miraculously revived Europe, since the evidence shows that a general recovery was already under way thanks to other aid programs from the United States. Economic historians Bradford De Long and Barry Eichengreen conclude it was, \" History's Most Successful Structural Adjustment Program.\" They state:\n\nThe Soviet Union concentrated on its own recovery. It seized and transferred most of Germany's industrial plants and it exacted war reparations from East Germany, Hungary, Romania, and Bulgaria, using Soviet-dominated joint enterprises. It used trading arrangements deliberately designed to favor the Soviet Union. Moscow controlled the Communist parties that ruled the satellite states, and they followed orders from the Kremlin. Historian Mark Kramer concludes:\n\nSince the 1960s, improving the efficiency of foreign aid has been a common topic of academic research. There is debate on whether foreign aid is efficacious, but for the purposes of this article we will ignore that. Given that schema, a common debate is over which factors influence the overall economic efficiency of foreign aid. Indeed, there is debate about whether aid impact should be measured empirically at all, but again, we will limit our scope to increasing the economic efficiency.\n\nAt the forefront of the aid debate has been the conflict between professor William Easterly of New York University and his ideological opposite, Jeffrey Sachs, from Columbia University. Easterly advocates the \"searcher's\" approach, while Sachs advocates a more top down, broad planned approach. We will discuss both of these at length.\n\nWilliam Easterly offers a nontraditional, and somewhat controversial \"searching\" approach to dealing with poverty, as opposed to the \"planned\" approach in his famous critique of the more traditional Owen/Sachs, The White Man's Burden. Traditional poverty reduction, Easterly claims is based on the idea that we know what is best for impoverished countries. He claims that they know what is best. Having a top down \"master plan,\" he claims, is inefficient. His alternative, called the \"Searchers\" approach, uses a bottom up strategy. That is, this approach starts by surveying the poor in the countries in question, and then tries to directly aid individuals, rather than governments. Local markets are a key incentive structure. The primary example is of mosquito nets in Malawi. In this example, an NGO sells mosquito nets to rich Malawians, and uses the profits to subsidize cheap sales to the impoverished. Hospital nurses are used as middle-women, profiting a few cents on every net sold to a patient. This incentive structure has seen the usage of nets in Malawi spike over 40% in less than seven years.\n\nOne of the central tenets in Easterly's approach is a more bottom up philosophy of aid. This applies not only to the identification of problems, but to the actual distribution of capital to the areas in need. In effect, Easterly would have countries go to the area which needed aid, collect information about the problem, find out what the population wanted, and then work from there. In keeping with this, funds would also be distributed from the bottom up, rather than being given to a specific government.\n\nEasterly also advocates working through currently existing Aid organizations, and letting them compete for funding. Utilizing pre-existing national organizations and local frameworks would not only help give target populations a voice in implementation and goal setting, but is more efficient economically. Easterly argues that the preexisting frameworks already \"know\" what the problems are, as opposed to outside NGOs who tend to \"guess\".\n\nEasterly strongly discourages aid to government as a rule. He believes, for several reasons, that aid to small \"bottom up\" organizations and individual groups is a better philosophy than to large governments.\n\nEasterly states that for far too long, inefficient aid organizations have been funded, and that this is a problem. The current system of evaluation for most aid\norganizations is internal. Easterly claims that the process is biased because organizations have a large incentive to represent their progress in a positive light. What he proposes as an alternative is an independent auditing system for aid organizations. Before receiving funding, the organization would state their goals and how they expect to measure and achieve them. If they do not meet their goals, Easterly proposes we shift our funding to organizations who are successful. This would prompt organizations to either become efficient, or obsolete.\n\nEasterly believes that aid goals should be small. In his opinion, one of the main failings of aid lies in the fact that we create large, utopian lists of things we hope to accomplish, without the means to actually see them to fruition. Rather than establish a utopian vision for a particular country, Easterly insists that we shift our focus to the most basic needs and improvements. If we feed, clothe, vaccinate, build infrastructure, and support markets, the macroscopic results will follow.\n\nThe \"Searching Approach\" is intrinsically tied to the market. Easterly claims that the only way for poverty to truly end is for the poor to be given the capability to lift themselves out of poverty, and then for it to happen. Philosophically, this sounds like the traditional \"bootstrap\" theory, but it is not. What he says is that the poor should be given the fiscal support to create their market, which would give them the ability to become self-reliant in the future.\n\nIn the end of his book, Easterly proposes a voucher system for foreign aid. The poor would be distributed a certain number of vouchers, which would act as currency, redeemable to aid organizations for services, medicines, and the like. These vouchers would then be redeemed by the aid organizations for more funding. In this way, the aid organization would be forced to compete, if by proxy.\n\nSachs presents a near dichotomy to Easterly. Sachs presents a broad, proscriptive solution to poverty. In his book, The End of Poverty, he explains how throughout history, countries have ascended from poverty by following a relatively simple model. First, you promote agricultural development, then industrialize, embrace technology, and finally become modern. This is the standard \"western\" model of development that has been followed by countries such as China and Brazil. Sachs main idea is that there should be a broad analytical \"checklist\" of things a country must attain before it can reach the next step on the ladder to development. Western nations should donate a percentage of their GDP as determined by the UN, and pump money into helping impoverished countries climb the ladder. Sachs insists that if followed, his strategy would eliminate poverty by 2025.\n\nSachs advocates using a top down methodology, utilizing broad ranging plans developed by external aid organizations like the UN and World Bank. To Sachs, these plans are essential to a coherent and timely eradication of poverty. He surmises that if donor and recipient countries follow the plan, they will be able to climb out of poverty.\n\nPart of Sachs’ philosophy includes strengthening the International Monetary Fund, World Bank, and the United Nations. If those institutions are given the power to enact change, and freed from mitigating influences, then they will be much more effective. Sachs does not find fault in the international organizations themselves. Instead, he blames the member nations who compose them. The powerful nations of the world must make a commitment to end poverty, then stick to it.\n\nSachs believes it is best to empower countries by utilizing their existing governments, rather than trying to circumnavigate them. He remarks that while the corruption argument is logically valid in that corruption harms the efficiency of aid, levels of corruption tend to be much higher on average for countries with low levels of GDP. He contends that this hurdle in government should not disqualify entire populations for much needed aid from the west.\n\nSachs does not see the need for independent evaluators, and sees them as a detractor to proper progress. He argues that many facets of aid cannot be effectively quantified, and thus it is not fair to try to put empirical benchmarks on the effectiveness of aid.\n\nSachs’ view makes it a point to attack and attempt to disprove many of the ideas that the more \"pessimistic\" Easterly stands on.\n\nFirst, he points to economic freedom. One of the common threads of logic in aid is that countries need to develop economically in order to rise from poverty. On this, there is not a ton of debate. However, Sachs contends that Easterly, and many other neo-Liberal economists believe high levels of economic freedom in these emerging markets is almost a necessity to development. Sachs himself does not believe this. He cites the lack of correlation between the average degrees of Economic Freedom in countries and their yearly GDP growth, which in his data set is completely inconclusive.\n\nAlso, Sachs contends that democratization is not an integral part of having efficient aid distribution. Rather than attach strings to our aid dollars, or only working with democracies or \"good governments\", Sachs believes we should consider the type of government in the needy country as a secondary concern.\n\nSachs’ entire approach stands on the assertion that abject poverty could be ended worldwide by 2025.\n\nDollar/Collier showed that current allocations of aid are allocated inefficiently. They came to the conclusion that aid money is given in many cases as an incentive to change policy, and for political reasons, which in many cases can be less efficient than the optimal condition. They agree that bad policy is detrimental to economic growth, which is a key component of poverty reduction, but have found that aid dollars do not significantly incentivize governments to change policy. In fact, they have negligible impact. As an alternative, Dollar proposes that aid be funneled more towards countries with \"good\" policy and less than optimal amounts of aid for their massive amounts of poverty. With respect to \"optimal amounts\" Dollar calculated the marginal productivity of each additional dollar of foreign aid for the countries sampled, and saw that some countries had very high rates of marginal productivity (each dollar went further), while others [with particularly high amounts of aid, and lower levels of poverty] had low [and sometimes negative] levels of marginal productivity. In terms of economic efficiency, aid funding would be best allocated towards countries whose marginal productivities per dollar were highest, and away from those countries who had low to negative marginal productivities. The conclusion was that while an estimated 10 million people are lifted from poverty with current aid policies, that number could be increased to 19 million with efficient aid allocation.\n\nNew Conditionality is the term used in a paper to describe somewhat of a compromise between Dollar and Hansen. Paul Mosely describes how policy is important, and that aid distribution is improper. However, unlike Dollar, \"New Conditionality\" claims that the most important factors in efficiency of aid are income distributions in the recipient country and corruption.\n\nOne of the problems in foreign aid allocation is the marginalization of the fragile state. The fragile state, with its high volatility, and risk of failure scares away donors. The people of those states feel harm and are marginalized as a result. Additionally, the fate of neighboring states is important, as economies of the directly adjacent states to those impoverished, volatile \"fragile states\" can be negatively impacted by as much as 1.6% of their GDP per year. This is no small figure. McGillivray advocates for the reduced volatility of aid flows, which can only be attained through analysis and coordination.\n\nA persistent problem in foreign aid is what some have called a 'neo-Newtonian' paradigm for thinking and action. Development and humanitarian problems are frequently dealt with as if they are simple, linear, and best addressed through the application of 'best practices' developed in Western countries and then applied ad infinitum by aid agencies. This approach has come under sustained criticism in Ben Ramalingam's \"Aid on the Edge of Chaos\". This work advocates that aid agencies should embrace the ideas and principles of complex adaptive systems research in order to improve how they think about and act on development problems.\n\n\nNations:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1597421", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1597421", "title": "Air Van Airlines", "text": "Air Van Airlines\n\nAir-Van Airlines was an airline based in Armenia. It was forced to suspend operations after the Armenian civil aviation authority decided not to extend its air operator certificate. It had operated two B747-200s and a DC-10 on charter services.\n\nAir-Van Airlines was forbidden from landing in Switzerland & Belgium. These bans could be the cause for Air Van to appear on a proposed Europe-wide blacklist of some airlines.\n\n"}
{"id": "2685759", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2685759", "title": "Archipelago Tomorrow", "text": "Archipelago Tomorrow\n\nArchipelago Tomorrow () is a right-wing political movement in the French \"collectivité d'outre-mer\" of Saint Pierre and Miquelon. It consists of Experience and Innovation and Miquelon Objectives.\n"}
{"id": "47737215", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47737215", "title": "Baron of Alagoa", "text": "Baron of Alagoa\n\nBaron of Alagoa () was a noble title created by D. Maria II by decree on 22 December 1841 in favour of José Francisco da Terra Brum, a wealthy merchant from the city of Horta, in the Portuguese archipelago of the Açores. The landowner had his residence along the margins of the \"Ribeira da Conceição\", and included properties in the so-named coastal shoreline of Alagoa (today occupied by the football field of Fayal Sport).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13304767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13304767", "title": "Committee P", "text": "Committee P\n\nThe Committee P ( , ), or the Permanent Oversight Committee on the Police Services (, ), exercises external oversight over the Belgian police and all civil servants with police authority. It is responsible to the Belgian Chamber of Representatives, the lower house of the Belgian Federal Parliament, which appoints and dismisses its members.\n\nThe president of the Committee P must be a magistrate.\n\n"}
{"id": "19667669", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19667669", "title": "Cuyania", "text": "Cuyania\n\nThe Precordillera Terrane or Cuyania was an ancient microcontinent or terrane whose history affected many of the older rocks of Cuyo in Argentina. It was separated by oceanic crust from the Chilenia terrane which accreted into it at ~420-390 Ma when Cuyania was already amalgamated with Gondwana. The hypothesized Mejillonia Terrane in the coast of northern Chile is considered by some geologists to be a single block with Cuyania. \n\nThe San Rafael Block crops out 200 km to the south of the other exposures of Cuyania and is the southern extension of the terrane.\n\nThe Precordillera has been hypothesised to have been derived from Laurentia, the core of North America, which was attached to the western margin of South America during the Precambrian when virtually all continents formed a \"proto-Gondwana\" supercontinent known as Pannotia. The Precordillera was then part of a proposed \"Texas Plateau\", a promontory attached to Laurentia similar to the way the Falkland Plateau is attached to South America today. The Texas Plateau was detached from the Gondwana in a rift around 455 Ma after which it collided with the proto-Andean margin of South America, an event known as the Taconic-Famatinian orogeny, and the Precordillera got left behind at its present location within South America.\n\n"}
{"id": "2193124", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193124", "title": "Democratic Front for the Liberation of Angola", "text": "Democratic Front for the Liberation of Angola\n\nThe Democratic Front for the Liberation of Angola (FDLA) was a political movement in colonial Angola. FDLA was set up as a parallel structure to the People's Movement for the Liberation of Angola (MPLA), supported by the government of Congo-Brazzaville. FDLA later aligned itself with MPLA in the struggle against Portuguese colonial rule. Eventually the cadres of FDLA joined MPLA, and FDLA ceased its independent existence.\n"}
{"id": "11780824", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11780824", "title": "Development Workshop", "text": "Development Workshop\n\nDevelopment Workshop (DW) is a non-profit organization providing assistance for poor and disadvantaged communities in the developing countries. Established in 1973. Works in more than 30 countries of Asia, Africa, the Americas.\n\nThe Organization promotes technical assistance, training, research projects, including the following spheres: shelter, basic services, infrastructure, livelihoods and local economic development, governance, post-conflict reconstruction and disaster mitigation. It is funded by non-government organizations, private citizens, national and international development agencies. DW is not a funding organization and it does not raise funds directly from the public.\n\nThere are three main DW centres (Canada, France, Angola) and offices in Burkina Faso and Vietnam.\n\nDevelopment Workshop France (DWF) is a French NGO, and works in South East Asia and Western Africa. \nDWF undertakes actions in Central Viet Nam that help families, communities, community leaders and civil society reduce vulnerability to natural disasters and climate change and develop the safer environment and poverty reduction. \n\nFor its work in Vietnam DWF was awarded the 2008 World Habitat Award, and received the Thua Thien Hué Certificate of Merit in 2008 as well.\n\nDevelopment Workshop France works in collaboration with the People’s Committee of Thua Thien Hué province and the Flood and Storm Control Committee, the Thua Thien Hué Consulting & Designing Construction Company, Hué, and Commune authorities. DW’s work builds on experience gained by DW in disaster and development related work in Viet Nam since 1989 on UNDP and Australian Aid supported projects in central and northern Viet Nam. It is supported by the EC Humanitarian Aid Office (ECHO) (2003–2009) and the Ford Foundation since 2007, and previously by Canadian International Development Aid (CIDA) and the Foundation Aide Viet Nam. \n\nIn 2008 DWF, by its declaration, exported its Vietnam expertise to Myanmar, to help victims of Cycloen Nargis, and in collaboration with Save the Children Alliance in Myanmar, takes part in the activities to strengthen schools to resist the impact of future cyclones and make children and their parents safer.\n\nDevelopment Workshop Angola was founded in 1981 and was the country's first NGO. In 1989 DWA initiated humanitarian electronic-network \"AngoNet\", funded by UNDP and the International Development Research Centre, and in partnership with UNICEF, the EU and One World Action contributed to giving access to clean water for about 1,000,000 people in Angola.\n\n\nThis article is related to the List of non-governmental organizations in Vietnam.\n"}
{"id": "2697905", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2697905", "title": "Dollart", "text": "Dollart\n\nThe Dollart (German name) or Dollard (Dutch name) is a bay in the Wadden Sea between the northern Netherlands and Germany, on the west side of the estuary of the Ems river. Most of it dries at low tide. Many water birds feed there.\n\nThe Dollart Bay was created by a catastrophic storm surge in 1277, covering the district of Reiderland and large parts of the Oldambt district. The flood inundated 43 parishes, and is estimated to have caused 80,000 deaths. Another storm surge in 1509 further extended the Dollart, flooding 30 more villages, and by 1520 the Dollart had its largest extension. Between the 16th and the 20th centuries, two thirds of the drowned area was reclaimed again.\n\nNowadays the unembanked forelands have been declared world natural heritage, as they are a paradise for all kinds of birds and other aquatic species.\n\nThe Netherlands and Germany do not agree on the exact course of the border through the bay, yet they have agreed to disagree by signing a treaty in 1960, laying out mutual responsibilities. Around 2011, the territorial dispute gained relevance with plans for the Borkum Riffgat offshore wind farm. The question about use and administration of the territorial waters between 3 and 12 nautical miles (where the wind farm is located) was settled with another treaty in 2014 by defining a \"line\", while the border dispute itself remained unresolved.\n\n"}
{"id": "47161529", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47161529", "title": "Ekwulobia Prison", "text": "Ekwulobia Prison\n\nEkwulobia Prison is a medium security prison in Aguata Local Government Area of Anambra State. The prison has an operational housing capacity of 85 inmates.\n\nIn June 2015, it was reported that 47 Boko Haram suspects had been transferred to the prison on orders of President Buhari.\n"}
{"id": "34952784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34952784", "title": "Faro, Goddess of the Waters", "text": "Faro, Goddess of the Waters\n\nFaro, Goddess of the Waters is a 2007 film.\n\nZanga, a child born out of wedlock, is driven out of his village. After many years, he returns to find out who is father is. At the moment of his arrival, something happens that the villagers interpret as the river spirit Faro’s angry reaction to the bastard’s coming.\n\n"}
{"id": "59221871", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=59221871", "title": "Fauna of Romania", "text": "Fauna of Romania\n\nSee\n\n"}
{"id": "8145921", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8145921", "title": "Flag of Trondheim", "text": "Flag of Trondheim\n\nThe flag of Trondheim is one of the official symbols of the city and municipality of Trondheim in Norway.\n\nMost Norwegian municipalities have a banner of their respective coats of arms as a flag. As Trondheim has no modern heraldic coat of arms, but a seal that is unsuitable as a banner of arms, a yellow \"Trondheim rose\" on a red field was instead chosen for the flag of Trondheim. The designer of the flag was professor Arne E. Holm, whose proposal was approved by the municipal council in 1989, and confirmed by royal order the same year.\n\nThe dog rose is the official flower of the city and its stylised form is related to the Tudor rose.\n\nIt is found as a symbol in medieval sources among other things representing St. Olav. This flower has been used as a symbol of the city at least since the 16th century. It is earliest preserved in the seal of the church chapter of Trondheim used in the 16th century. In the 17th century it was used on a green field in the banner of the citizen guard of the city. It has also been used as a symbol of several guilds such as the masons, bakers, goldsmiths and smiths. In the 18th century the flower replaced the three heads in the seal of Trondheim. The idea of the rose as a symbol of Trondheim may originally have come into being because of a misinterpretation of the last syllable of the city's old name Nidaros.\n\nThe flower has been so closely connected to Trondheim that the Norwegian heraldic authority denied other municipalities the use of it in their coats of arms.\n\nThe flag of Trondheim has been highlighted as an example of a good city flag design by Roman Mars in his radio show \"99% invisible\", a radio show focused on design and architecture.\n\n"}
{"id": "10342925", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10342925", "title": "Foi magia", "text": "Foi magia\n\n\"Foi magia\" (\"It was magic\") was the Portuguese entry in the Eurovision Song Contest 2004, performed in Portuguese by Sofia Vitória.\n\nThe song is an up-tempo number, with Vitória singing about how she felt when she first saw her lover, a feeling she describes as \"magic\" and otherwise impossible to explain.\n\nAs Portugal had not finished the 2003 Contest in the top 10, the song was performed in the semi-final. Here it was performed seventh, following Andorra's Marta Roure with \"Jugarem a estimar-nos\" and preceding Malta's Julie & Ludwig with \"On again...off again\". At the close of voting, it had received 38 points, placing 15th in a field of 22, thus failing to qualify for the final and requiring Portugal to qualify from the semi-final at the next Contest.\n\nIt was succeeded as Portuguese representative at the 2005 Contest by 2B with \"Amar\".\n"}
{"id": "33895887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33895887", "title": "Freilichtbühne Ötigheim", "text": "Freilichtbühne Ötigheim\n\nFreilichtbühne Ötigheim is an open-air theatre in Baden-Württemberg, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "20494734", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20494734", "title": "Global Initiative for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care", "text": "Global Initiative for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care\n\nThe Global Initiative for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care was established by the World Health Organization in December 2005. Its general purpose is to reduce \"death and disability from road traffic accidents, trauma, burns, falls, pregnancy related complications, domestic violence, disasters and other emergency surgical conditions\" by improving collaborations between relevant organizations, institutions, and agencies (\"Global Initiative for Essential and Emergency Surgical Health Care\" or GIEESC). Specific objectives include improving basic medical supplies at district hospitals, as well as better training for staff to bolster medical standards and care.\n\nThe GIEESC is a partnership of organizations, NGO’s, institutions, and associations from third and first world countries. This partnership is working together to create solutions to and meet the Millennium Development Goals developed by the WHO—which include reducing maternal and child mortality rates, as well as reducing HIV rates—“through improvement in the quality and safety of clinical procedures (essential surgical and anaesthesia care)” (\"Global Initiative\").\n\nThe Clinical Procedures Unit of the WHO recognized a need for improved surgical care at the first referral-level health facilities, which typically are district hospitals. The \"WHO Meeting towards A Global Initiative for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care\" at the WHO headquarters in Geneva, Switzerland, established the GIEESC to \"improve emergency and essential surgical care at resource limited health care facilities\". Experts from the fields of surgery, anesthesia, trauma, and others were in attendance to discuss solutions to the global problem.\n\nThe first countries to benefit from the creation of GIEESC were Pakistan, Maldives, Mongolia, Vietnam, Mozambique, Ethiopia, Ghana, and Kyrgyzstan. Other countries may join upon request and a submitted proposal. The training program implemented at district hospitals to achieve the project’s goals includes a tool kit of \"best practice protocols on clinical procedures safety, disaster management, HIV prevention, waste disposal, guidelines on policies, training curriculum, emergency equipment, teaching slides and videos”(“WHO Meeting”).\n\nGIEESC’s stated goals include: improving the already existing training and education programs essential to executing emergency surgical care; developing district hospitals' surgical, obstetric, trauma, and anesthesia services; training personnel with the appropriate skills to treat patients; continuing education to maintain those skills; and finally, developing a dependable system that facilitates access to medication and medicinal drugs.\n\nChallenges to those goals include: inadequate equipment to \"perform simple but vital interventions such as resuscitation, the provision of oxygen, assessment of anemia, suctions, intercostal drainage and airway support\"; insufficient basic supplies; the absence of specialized surgical teams; and the lack of anesthesia.\n\nGIEESC’s policies require implementing a national plan to standardize district hospitals' surgical services by including requirements for basic surgical treatment. Hospitals must be clearly committed to educating and training health care professionals to react appropriately when dealing with surgery, trauma, obstetrics and anesthesia.\n\nGIEESC demands national guidelines on standards for personnel, standard operating procedures, and evaluations, based on quality of actual procedures and equipment involved.\n\nThe \"Integrated Management for Emergency and Essential Surgical Care (IMEESC) tool kit\" for implementing procedures involves a set of five cds containing recommendations for standards in emergency surgical care in surgery, trauma, obstetrics, and anesthesia.\n\nSeptember 24–25, 2007, in Dar es Salaam, Tanzania, the WHO held a second meeting on the initiative to discuss its progress in certain countries. The findings are listed below by continent, and then country.\n\nThere were 36 million inhabitants but only 100 surgeons, and 1/3 of them had left the country. The GIEESC project started in January 2007 organized a task force to train twenty health care providers (with at least one from nine different zones) in dilation, curettage, cesarean section, and trauma management. There will be a follow-up report in a year to evaluate the education the trainers brought to their respective zones.\n\nWith a population of over 75 million, Ethiopia had only 144 surgeons, 31 anesthesiologists, 254 anesthesia nurses, 1124 general practitioners, 776 health officers, and 18,000 nurses. The initiative had reached only one region so far, with 9 health officers and 18 nurse anesthetists trained. By 2010 the goal was to have trained 300 general practitioners, 600 nurse anesthetists, and 300 midwives. Additionally, four medical colleges are including training materials in their curriculum.\n\nGambia lacked sufficient staff and equipment to treat its population of 1.5 million to proper surgical care. The program was focused on training nurses in child and maternal health care, with the help of an emergency obstetrical flying squad. In the first two months of implementation 27 lives were saved.\n\nA mycobacterial skin disease occurring primarily in children under 15 years old prompted the Buruli Ulcer program, which provided education on the treatment of the ulcers that result from the skin disease. Equipment for safe surgery, as well as refurbished health facilities were ongoing challenges.\n\nThe GIEESC had been holding courses on disaster management and polytrauma, as well as a workshop for surgical technicians, and the founding of the National Program for Infection Control.\n\nPlans for Uganda involved implementing better care to lower levels of health facilities, and providing training and surgical services to camps in rural areas.\n\nChallenges to proper surgical care in Zambia included lack of staff, poor infrastructure, inadequate supplies, and difficulty in accessing health care. A situational analysis was underway.\n\nTemporary surgical units in rural health centers have been set up, along with training of doctors there(“WHO Meeting\").\n\nVarious steps had been taken to improve Mongolia’s emergency surgical care: the training of 300 primary health workers at main hospitals and 120 workers at primary health facilities, the translation of necessary WHO tools into Mongolian.\n\nThe GIEESC’s two goals for India were to train existing professionals in life saving skills, and to implement a “rural surgery” project where surgeons would be trained to deal with specific surgical problems seen in rural areas.\n\nThe country’s government was implementing health care reform by focusing on surgery, and a WHO toolkit was to be implemented at medical institutions to help.\n\nGIEESC had begun anesthesia training at sites in Faryab and Mazir-I Sharif, and equipment was donated for the purpose.\n\nThe country’s health care budget was being redirected toward training of health care providers at basic facilities with surgical capabilities, with essential and emergency surgical care education central to the project.\n\nThe GIEESC was involved in various collaborations with other WHO departments: Transplantation, Health Action in Crises, Violence and Injury Prevention, Making Pregnancy Safer, Child and Adolescent Health, The Partnership for Maternal, Newborn, and Child Health, Communicable Diseases, Second Global Patient Safety Challenge: Safe Surgery Saves Lives, Health Inter Network Access to Research Initiative, Knowledge Management for Public Health, and the Clinical Procedures Unit. The GIEESC was also involved in global partnerships with: The Transplantation Society, Medecins Sans Frontiers, International Committee of the Red Cross, International Society of Orthopedic Surgery and Traumatology, Health Volunteers Overseas, Association of Surgeons of East Africa, College of Surgeons of East, Central and South Africa, International Federation of Surgical Colleges, International College of Surgeons, World Federation of Societies of Anesthesiologists, Geneva Foundation for Medical Education and Research, EHT-ESC WHO/UNICEF Statement on Anemia, and the Canadian Network for International Surgery.\n\n"}
{"id": "41233833", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41233833", "title": "High Commission of Swaziland, London", "text": "High Commission of Swaziland, London\n\nThe High Commission of Swaziland in London is the diplomatic mission of Swaziland in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe High Commission is housed in a building designed by Reginald Blomfield in the late 19th century and features sculpture-work by Henry Pegram.\n\nA regular protest has been held since 2010 each Saturday by those opposed to the rule of King Mswati III.\n\n"}
{"id": "19114308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19114308", "title": "Independent National Alliance of Angola", "text": "Independent National Alliance of Angola\n\nIndependent National Alliance of Angola (ANIA, ) is a political party in Angola. ANIA was founded on April 11, 1995. The party is a member of the coalition New Democracy. It is led by former National Liberation Front of Angola (FNLA) youth leader, José Fernando Fula 'Tó Zé'.\n"}
{"id": "33477186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33477186", "title": "International lender of last resort", "text": "International lender of last resort\n\nInternational lender of last resort (ILLR) is a facility prepared to act when no other lender is capable or willing to lend in sufficient volume to provide or guarantee liquidity in order to avert a sovereign debt crisis or a systemic crisis.\n\nThe role and suggested functions of an ILLR in a crisis is like domestic lender of last resort but one at an international level that can bailout one or several countries. A number of different proposals and structures have been suggested and some have been implemented but with limited success. One such example is the International Monetary Fund's supplemental reserve facility (SRF). Some suggested ILLR's have been limited to supranational regions such as the Eurozone where agreements and funding are easier to achieve.\n\nCalls for an ILLR arose following the Mexican crisis (1994–1995) and the Asian and Russian financial crises of the late 1990s. While no comprehensive mechanism has been implemented, in late 1997 the International Monetary Fund instituted the supplemental reserve facility (SRF), designed to make large short-term loans with policy conditions at penalty rates during crises. To date, only Korea, Russia and Brazil have made use of the SRF.\n\nOther less than comprehensive mechanisms have been proposed but not adopted. The first is International or Sovereign Bankruptcy, which would impose a stay on payments by a country in crisis. The second involves the use of credit lines for sovereigns to draw upon in times of crisis. A flexible credit line (FCL) would be made available with few or no conditions to countries with very sound economic and financial policies, while a precautionary credit line (PCL) could be made available to countries that do not meet FCL criteria but nonetheless display essentially sound policies. In contrast to FCL provisions, countries drawing on the PCL would be subject to policy conditions. A third proposal, broader and less clearly defined, calls for a global stabilization mechanism whereby the IMF could temporarily use an expanded \"tool kit,\" with instruments including the unilateral offer of FCLs for multiple qualifying countries as well as other special facilities and relaxations of the terms of existing facilities.\n\nA variety of rationales have been offered for the creation of an ILLR. Particularly prominent in recent years is offering countries an alternative to self-insurance through accumulation of foreign exchange reserves, which, in spite of a high cost of carry, has been widely practiced in emerging economies since the 1997 Asian financial crisis, the 1998 Russian financial crisis and the 1998 bailout of Long-Term Capital Management. An ILLR might also provide a cushion against shocks and volatility, as well as reduce the likelihood of financial panic within countries and financial contagion across countries. Moreover, an ILLR might allow a country's Central Bank to shift their holdings from liquid but low-yielding foreign exchange reserve to less liquid but longer-term and higher-yield assets. Finally, having an ILLR with established rules and procedures in place before a crisis might make collective action problems less likely than in the case of an exclusively ex post response.\n\nThe role and suggested functions of an ILLR in a crisis like domestic lender of last resort, as set forth by Walter Bagehot and subsequent authors, are the following: i) lending against any marketable collateral (finance) valued at its value in normal times; ii) lending in large amounts (on demand) at terms steeper than at market terms in normal times; and iii) establish the above principles ex-ante and applying them automatically.\nThe functions of an ILLR could be undertaken by a new institution such as a global central bank, but current proposals have generally suggested the creation of a fund or facility within an existing institution, particularly the International Monetary Fund. A leading role has also occasionally been suggested for the Bank for International Settlements. Less consensus exists on whether an ILLR should additionally assume the functions of a crisis manager by coordinating the responses of other relevant actors. Disagreement likewise exists regarding whether an ILLR should directly provide international liquidity to a country's financial institutions or should only provide liquidity to institutions serving as a country's financial safety nets.\nBased on the traditional doctrine, four desirable aspects of a feasible ILLR can be set forth:\n\n\nThere are, in addition, important distinctive characteristics of a feasible ILLR to bear in mind:\n\nIt should be noted that any ILLR arrangement assumes a high level of trust and cooperation among international financial actors. Reserve asset countries, for example, would be expected to provide liquidity on demand to the ILLR. That liquidity would in turn be drawn from a network of Central Bank swaps and other reliable sources, including regional arrangements in a position to co-finance and committed to fulfilling their obligations. Trust and cooperation would also be implicit in the function of channeling liquidity to qualified countries.\n\nThe greatest single objection to ILLR is fear of moral hazard, as access to a liquidity facility may lead countries to opt for bolder policies with less liquidity self-protection (e.g. lower reserves) and, in the event of a liquidity crisis, to choose to incur debt from the ILLR to avoid default on private debts and preserve creditworthiness. In addition, private risk-taking as well as public risk-taking might increase in a setting characterized by a combination of inadequate macro-prudential regulation and the elimination of systemic risk.\n\nA variety of more specific objections have arisen as well: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "23823321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23823321", "title": "Kafue Gorge Upper Power Station", "text": "Kafue Gorge Upper Power Station\n\nThe Kafue Gorge Upper Power Station is a hydroelectric power plant of the Kafue River in Zambia. The construction period was from 1967 to 1973. A power generating capacity of was installed in six turbines, producing up to each and the current capacity is 900MW.\n\n"}
{"id": "21421687", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21421687", "title": "Kosovo–Maldives relations", "text": "Kosovo–Maldives relations\n\nKosovan–Maldivian relations are foreign relations between Kosovo and the Maldives. Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia on 17 February 2008 and the Maldives recognised it on 19 February 2009. On the 16 April 2009, Kosovo and the Maldives established diplomatic relations with one another.\n\nOn 7 March, the Maldivian President Mohamed Nasheed asked police to investigate the allegations of a US$2 million bribe given to Maldivian government officials to recognise Kosovo as an independent state. On 17 March, People’s Majlis National Security Committee launched probe into Islamic Democratic Party's allegations regarding the bribery. Balkan Insight reported that Kosovo businessman, Behgjet Pacolli, who also heads the New Kosovo Alliance party, has denied any involvement in the bribery case and stated that he only lobbied for the recognition of Kosovo. Foreign Minister Ahmed Shaheed was cross-examined by the parliamentary committee on 28 March. The police investigation was closed on 6 May 2009, concluding that there was no evidence of corruption and the diplomatic process was conducted according to international standards; the NSC investigation was suspended.\n\nThe Maldives was absent at the 8 October 2008 United Nations General Assembly vote regarding an ICJ hearing on the legality of Kosovo's independence. On 21 April 2009, it was announced by the ICJ that the Maldives was one of the 36 UN member states to summit a written statement to the ICJ regarding the legality of Kosovo's unilaterally proclaimed independence. The Maldives written statement is in favour and supports the legality of Kosovo's independence from Serbia.\n\nThe ICJ ruled that Kosovo's declaration of independence was legal.\n\n\nNotes:\n\nReferences:\n"}
{"id": "19085899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19085899", "title": "Kosovo–United Kingdom relations", "text": "Kosovo–United Kingdom relations\n\nKosovan–British relations are foreign relations between Kosovo and the United Kingdom. When Kosovo declared its independence from Serbia on 17 February 2008, the United Kingdom became one of the first countries to announce the official recognition of a sovereign Kosovo on 18 February 2008. The United Kingdom has had an embassy in Pristina since 5 March 2008. Kosovo has had an embassy in London since 1 October 2008.\n\nThe United Kingdom participated in the 1999 NATO bombing of Yugoslavia, which resulted in a UN administration of Kosovo. The United Kingdom currently has 84 troops serving in Kosovo as peacekeepers in the NATO led Kosovo Force. Originally there were 19,000 British troops in KFOR. Mike Jackson was the first KFOR Commander from 12 June 1999 - 8 October 1999.\n\nOn 25 April 2008, the British Government announced that it would send a battle-group based on 2 Rifles, a light infantry battalion of about 600 soldiers, to help maintain public order to serve as Peacekeepers in EULEX, an EU Police, Civilian and Law Mission in Kosovo.\n\nThe United Kingdom was an important player in the events of 1999. The Kosovo War, which Prime Minister Tony Blair had advocated on moral grounds, was initially a failure when it relied soly on air strikes; he believed that the threat of a ground offensive, which Bill Clinton had initially ruled out, was necessary to convince Serbia's Slobodan Milošević to withdraw. Blair ordered that 50,000 soldiers - most of the available British Army - should be made ready for action. Blair has visited Kosovo on several occasions since; other British Ministers who have had ministerial responsibility for policy towards Kosovo, such as Dennis MacShane, have also maintained their connections.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8383575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8383575", "title": "List of South Asian stock exchanges", "text": "List of South Asian stock exchanges\n\nThis is a list of South Asian stock exchanges. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50373745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50373745", "title": "Lumír and Píseň", "text": "Lumír and Píseň\n\nLumír and Píseň (Czech: Lumír a Píseň) is an outdoor sculpture made by Josef Václav Myslbek in 1889-1897 for Palacký Bridge. Damaged from American bombing on February 14, 1945, statues were removed in 1948 in connection with the bridge reconstruction and installed at Vyšehradské sady in Vyšehrad, Prague, Czech Republic. The statue was previously at the New Town's side of Vltava and it was installed in the gardens with two other statues from the opposite Smíchov's side. The fourth statue, Libuše and Přemysl, was heavily damaged and repaired until reinstalled with the other three in 1977.. \n\nIt depicts the legendary bard Lumír and Píseň (\"song\"). According to Queen's Court manuscript Lumír refused to sing a hymn for the winners of The Maidens' War, and sings instead his last song to the Vyšehrad, then breaks his instrument. Albeit lucking authenticity, the story was in the 19th century considered a symbol of national conscience.\n\n"}
{"id": "27847379", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27847379", "title": "Luxemburger Volksblatt (1880–87)", "text": "Luxemburger Volksblatt (1880–87)\n\nLuxemburger Volksblatt was a newspaper published in Luxembourg between 1880 and 1887.\n"}
{"id": "20895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20895", "title": "MV Buffalo Soldier (T-AK-9301)", "text": "MV Buffalo Soldier (T-AK-9301)\n\nMV \"Buffalo Soldier\" (T-AK-9301) is a roll-on/roll-off ship, formerly of the French Government Line (now merged into CMA CGM). She was sold and reflagged US, renamed to honor Buffalo Soldiers, and chartered by the United States Navy Military Sealift Command as a Maritime Prepositioning ship serving at Diego Garcia laden with U.S. Air Force munitions. She is self-sustaining, that is, she can unload herself, an asset in harbors with little or no infrastructure. Her 120-long-ton capacity roll-on/roll-off ramp accommodates tracked and wheeled vehicles of every description. While she is not currently in service with MSC, ships with her general characteristics are designated \"Buffalo Soldier\" class, fleet designation AK 2222.\n\n"}
{"id": "30969349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30969349", "title": "Mirandesa", "text": "Mirandesa\n\nThe Mirandesa is a cattle breed from Portugal. The Mirandesa breed has the protected geographical status of DOC (\"Denominação de Origem Controlada\") from the European Commission\n\nHead: wide neck, raised and prominent. Save remarkably thick and long, covering the base of the sticks of color and always a redhead. Horned with extreme afuscados, thin small-scale, acabanados and tips up and turned inside out, getting this level slightly higher than the topknot. Ears lined with long and abundant red hair. Source sub-concave, eyes touched. Head below eyes, short, broad and dry, right nasal bone and muzzle very short, black and superiorly bordered by a broad fringe of hair always white.\nNeck: Short, thick with hook, at least in the bulls, soon falls under his lower lip and comes up to the knees, including overhangs.\nTrunk: round side. Withers low. Ridge right, with red hair or white stripe. Rounded rump. Raised tail, short and well supplied.\nMammary system, developed and well set, with well-implanted teats of moderate size. The milk production often exceeds the intake capacity of calves during the first months of life but these run out in the following months until weaning.\nEnd and uprightness: short and slender members below the knee and hock; the right hind and forelegs knees deflected inward. Thigh convex.\nColor: Chestnut Retinta the bull, more or less dark brown, with clusters of pigmented centrifugal tendency in bulls and cows.\nFormat: animals are harmonious, lively but docile temperament, large size and compact form, the respiratory tract (mainly the girth instead of waist circumference).\n\nThe breed region is circumscribed almost exclusively to the Northeast Portugal in Bragança District.\n\n"}
{"id": "55910075", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55910075", "title": "Montenegrin (party)", "text": "Montenegrin (party)\n\nMontenegrin ( / \"Crnogorska\") is a liberal political party in Montenegro, founded in 2017 as the successor to Montenegrin Democratic Union (CDU). Miodrag Vlahović, founder and first president of CDU, resigned and was succeeded by Dragan Ivančević, whose election was followed by the rebranding of the party. Some notable members of the party, such as leader Ivančević and president of Political Council, Miodrag Živković, are former members of the Liberal Party and Liberal Alliance. In 2018, Vladimir Pavićević was elected as the new party leader.\n\nThe party has no seats in the Parliament of Montenegro, and is yet to contest the parliamentary election. It currently has 3 representatives in the Budva municipal assembly, elected in 2016. The party failed to win any seats in the local elections in municipalities of Tivat, Herceg Novi and Cetinje.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26637972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26637972", "title": "Mughal Serai, Doraha", "text": "Mughal Serai, Doraha\n\nMughal Serai, Doraha or Doraha Sarai is located at Doraha in Ludhiana District.\n\nDoraha Serai was built as Mughal caravan serais, by the Mughal ruler Jahangir. Once an example of fine Mughal architecture, this historical serai is in a dilapidated condition due to indifferent attitude of the government.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33913125", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33913125", "title": "Müllers Marionetten-Theater", "text": "Müllers Marionetten-Theater\n\nMüllers Marionetten-Theater is a theatre in Wuppertal, North Rhine-Westphalia, Germany.\n"}
{"id": "4514568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4514568", "title": "National Committee of the Chinese Machinery, Metallurgical and Building Material Workers' Union", "text": "National Committee of the Chinese Machinery, Metallurgical and Building Material Workers' Union\n\nThe National Committee of the Chinese Machinery, Metallurgical and Building Material Workers’ Union is a national industrial union of the All-China Federation of Trade Unions in the People's Republic of China.\n\n"}
{"id": "4065006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4065006", "title": "National Liberation Army (Algeria)", "text": "National Liberation Army (Algeria)\n\nThe National Liberation Army or ALN (Arabic, \"جيش التحرير الوطني الجزائري\" \"Djaïche Al-Tehrir Al-Ouatani Al-Djezaïr\"; French, \"Armée de libération nationale\") was the armed wing of the nationalist Front de Libération National (FLN) during the Algerian War. After the independence of Algeria from France in 1962, the ALN was converted into the regular armed forces of the republic, but its leadership also came to play a prominent role in Algerian politics, as in the 1965 coup d'état by Col. Houari Boumediene.\n"}
{"id": "41934572", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41934572", "title": "Non-Party List", "text": "Non-Party List\n\nThe Non-Party List Liechtenstein (, ULL) was a political party in Liechtenstein formed to contest the 1989 general election and prevent any of the larger parties from forming a majority. It did not reach the minimum vote threshold to gain seats in the Landtag, and subsequently dissolved in 1990.\n"}
{"id": "38842963", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38842963", "title": "Ottoman wars in Africa", "text": "Ottoman wars in Africa\n\nThe Ottoman Empire was founded at the beginning of the 14th century. Beginning in the 16th century, it also began acquiring possessions through a series of wars in Africa.\n\nEgypt was under the rule of a military cast named Mamluks. Mamluks were actually Turks and Circassians. In addition to Egypt they also controlled Syria, Palestine Lebanon and Jordan. After Mehmed II (the Conqueror) united most of Anatolia under Ottoman rule, the two empires became neighbours of each other where two Mamluk vassals of Turkmen origin were the buffer states between the two. During the Ottoman-Safavid Persia war, Mamluks (or their vassals) supported Persia. Selim I (the Grim) of the Ottoman Empire used this claim as a pretext to wage a war on Mamluks. During Selim’s long campaign to Egypt in 1516-18, Mamluks were defeated three times; in the battles Marj Dabiq and Yaunis Khan on the way to Egypt and in the Battle of Ridanieh in Egypt (The first and the third personally commanded by Selim and the second by Hadim Sinan Pasha). The third battle in which Hadim Sinan Pasha fell was the final blow to Mamluks. After clashes in Cairo, Tumanbay II the Mamluk sultan was arrested and Selim annexed whole Mamluk territory, enlarging the Ottoman Empire more than two times in only two years.\n\nTurkish corsair and admiral Hayreddin Barbarossa in 1516, captured the city of Algiers from the Holy Roman Empire. Although initially Barbaros and his brothers were independent, after his elder brother's death, Barbaros appealed to Selim for protection.\nIn 1532, during the reign of Suleiman I (the Magnificent), Barbaros was appointed as the grand admiral of the Ottoman Navy and Algeria became an Ottoman possession. Eventually the Ottomans began controlling the hinterland also. In 1552, Salih Reis an Ottoman admiral, marched over the Sahara and captured Touggourt.\n\nIn the early years of the 16th century Tunisia was ruled by Hafsid dynasty of Berber origin. Although Tunis, the most important city of Tunisia was captured by Barbaros on behalf of the Ottoman Empire in 1534, next year during the reign of Charles V, a navy of the Holy Roman Empire took the city. In the year 1560, an Ottoman navy commanded by Piyale Pasha defeated a large navy of the Holy Roman Empire in the Battle of Djerba. After this battle Uluç Ali Reis of the Ottoman Empire captured the city for the second time in 1569 during the reign of Selim II. Two years later the city was lost to Holy Roman Empire for the second time. Finally in 1574, an Ottoman navy commanded by the grand admiral Sinan Pasha captured the city for the third time.\n\nAfter Knights Hospitaller left the island of Rhodes in 1522, some of them had settled in Tripoli, the most important city of Libya. In 1551, Ottoman admiral Turgut Reis (also known as Dragut) captured the city with the help of Sinan Pasha. Eventually Benghazi and the hinterland Fezzan were also annexed. Between 1711 and 1835 Libya became autonomous under Karamanlı dynasty (a dynasty founded by a military ruler from Karaman, Turkey). After 1835 Mahmud II reestablished Ottoman control.\n\nIn 1538 Suleiman I sent a navy to the Indian Ocean. (see Ottoman naval expeditions in the Indian Ocean) The expeditions continued for about 30 years. Özdemir Pasha the deputy of the admiral conquered the west bank of the Red Sea (roughly corresponding to a narrow coastal strip of Sudan and Eritrea) in 1567 during the reign of Selim II.\n\nThe Ottomans frequently interfered in the affairs of Morocco, and even captured Fes briefly in 1576 to enthrone their candidate as the Sultan of Fes. During the Battle of Alcácer Quibir in 1578, they actively fought on the side of Morocco against Portugal. According to Lord Kinross Morocco fell under Ottoman influence. In 1585, Ottoman admiral Murat Reis captured the island of Lanzarote in the Canary islands off the West African coast. Although he soon withdrew, it was notable as the sole Ottoman conquest in the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nGeneral Napoleon Bonaparte (later Napoleon I) of France invaded Egypt in 1798. The main Ottoman army was preoccupied in European fronts and the only defenders were local forces which were routed in the Battle of Pyramids. However Napeleon couldn't proceed much because his fleet was defeated by the British navy. In 1799 he returned and the French army evacuated Egypt following the Battle of Alexandria in 1801.\n\nThe Ottoman Empire lost direct control of Egypt and the lands to the south during the revolt of Kavalalı Mehmet Ali Pasha in the 1830s. Although Egypt was still considered an Ottoman vassal, the Ottoman Empire totally lost control in the 1880s to the British Empire. By the 19th century, Ottoman control of the countries west of Egypt was also weakened. Algeria was lost in 1830 and Tunis was lost in 1881, both to France. Libya, the last Ottoman territory in Africa was lost to Italy at the end of the Italo-Turkish War in 1911.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17479344", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17479344", "title": "R101 (Italy)", "text": "R101 (Italy)\n\nR101 (formerly Radio Milano International, 101 Network, Radio 101, One-O-One, and Radio 101, current name since June 6, 2005) is an Italian radio station that broadcasts adult contemporary music and news bulletin from TG5 and TGCOM.\nIt is headquartered in Milan, Italy.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "988288", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=988288", "title": "Radio Berlin International", "text": "Radio Berlin International\n\nRadio Berlin International was the international broadcaster for the German Democratic Republic (East Germany).\n\nRadio Berlin International (RBI) started in May 1959 to counter Deutsche Welle, the West German international broadcaster. Much of its output was news reports and information about the GDR. It offered a state-sponsored view on life in a socialist country. It distributed large quantities of colorful and professionally produced publicity material about life in the GDR to its listeners.\n\nRBI used transmitters at Leipzig, Königs-Wusterhausen, and Nauen. In 1964, RBI's system at Nauen built by the state enterprises VEB Funkwerk Berlin Köpenick and VEB Industrieprojekte featured rotatable tiltable antennas under remote control and able to handle 200 KW of power, making RBI the second most powerful shortwave service in the Soviet bloc. The studios were based in a former furniture factory at Nalepastraße in Berlin.\n\nThe broadcaster ceased operations on 2 October 1990 just before German reunification. The final broadcast was noted for the bitterness among some RBI staff about its \"takeover\", rather than \"unification\" with Deutsche Welle. The last words (for the last English broadcast, at 36:48 of the reference) were, \"Take care and good luck.\" \n\nRadio Berlin International broadcast in many languages, with many of its announcers at the different services — such as English, French, and Danish, coming from their country's respective communist parties. It was one of the major international broadcasters of the Cold War era.\n\nIn August 2012, Taiwan-based PCJ Radio reported in its syndicated program \"Media Network Plus\" of a publicity campaign for a new station with the name \"Radio Berlin International\". A website and e-mails claimed that a group was preparing test transmissions and intended eventually to broadcast programmes on technology and education via the internet and on shortwave from the former RBI's engineering site at Nauen, which had been transferred in 1990 to Deutsche Welle. PCJ producer Keith Perron and a journalist colleague contacted the organization with questions about its programming plans and funding. Both received vague replies. The organization's web site disappeared later that month.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18179974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18179974", "title": "Radio Salankoloto", "text": "Radio Salankoloto\n\nRadio Salankoloto is a radio station in Burkina Faso. It is broadcast on 97.3 FM from the city of Ouagadougou. It was established on November 22, 1996.\n\nIt plays mostly African music from traditional to modern hip-hop.\n\nThe radio is known for its important health and community awareness programmes. Radio Salankoloto acts as a \"community telephone\" by broadcasting community birth and death announcements and hosting phone-in talk shows. The radio station broadcast a 13 episode drama series named \"Viim Kuunga\" at least twice in the afternoon and evening at times. In Mooré, \"Viim\" means life, and \"Kuunga\" is a traditional drum that alerts people during emergencies. The title literally means: \"Alert! Save your life!\" and was broadcast to increase knowledge of HIV/AIDS. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "15842631", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15842631", "title": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Corfu, Zakynthos, and Cephalonia", "text": "Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Corfu, Zakynthos, and Cephalonia\n\nThe Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Corfu, Zakynthos, and Cefalonia () is an archdiocese comprising the Ionian islands of Corfu, Zakynthos and Cephalonia in western Greece.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1508743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1508743", "title": "SKY PerfecTV!", "text": "SKY PerfecTV!\n\nSKY PerfecTV! is also a direct broadcast satellite (DBS) service. While SKY PerfecTV! Premium Service use DVB-S and DVB-S2, SKY PerfecTV! Basic Service use ISDB-S.\n\n"}
{"id": "54723889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54723889", "title": "Sacesinia", "text": "Sacesinia\n\nSacesinians were an ancient people who fought with for the Persians in Alexander the Great's war of conquest on the Achaemenid Empire. They gave horsemen to the Persians which were used together with the horsemen of Caucasian Albania. They lived in the north east of Armenia along the Kura river.\n"}
{"id": "1220570", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1220570", "title": "Shortwave listening", "text": "Shortwave listening\n\nShortwave listening, or SWLing, is the hobby of listening to shortwave radio broadcasts located on frequencies between 1700 kHz and 30 MHz. Listeners range from casual users seeking international news and entertainment programming, to hobbyists immersed in the technical aspects of radio reception and collecting official confirmations (QSL cards) that document their reception of distant broadcasts (DXing). In some developing countries, shortwave listening enables remote communities to obtain regional programming traditionally provided by local medium wave AM broadcasters. In 2002, the number of households that were capable of shortwave listening was estimated to be in the hundreds of millions.\n\nThe practice of long-distance radio listening began in the 1920s when shortwave broadcasters were first established in the US and Europe. Audiences discovered that international programming was available on the shortwave bands of many consumer radio receivers, and a number of magazines and listener clubs catering to the practice arose as a result. Shortwave listening was especially popular during times of international conflict such as World War II, the Korean War and the Persian Gulf War.\n\nListeners use inexpensive portable world band receivers to access the shortwave bands, and some advanced hobbyists employ specialized shortwave communications receivers featuring digital technology designed for optimum reception of shortwave signals, along with outdoor antennas to enhance performance.\n\nWith the advent of the Internet, many international broadcasters have scaled back or terminated their shortwave transmissions in favor of web-based program distribution, while others are moving from traditional analog to digital broadcasting modes in order to allow more efficient delivery of shortwave programming. The number of organized shortwave listening clubs has diminished along with printed magazines devoted to the hobby; however, many enthusiasts continue to exchange information and news on the web.\n\nThe practice of listening to distant stations in the medium wave AM broadcast band was carried over to the shortwave bands. Frank Conrad, an early pioneer of medium wave broadcasting with KDKA in Pittsburgh, instituted some of the first shortwave broadcasts around 1921. Stations affiliated with General Electric and Crosley followed shortly after.\n\nUnited States shortwave broadcasters began transmitting popular radio programs in an attempt to attract foreign audiences. During the 1930s, new shortwave receivers appeared on the market as well as popular shortwave magazines and clubs. Shortwave stations often offered unique QSL cards for DXers.\n\nIn Europe, shortwave broadcasts from Britain and the Netherlands such as Philips Radio's PCJJ began around 1927. Germany, Italy, the Soviet Union, Britain, and many other countries soon followed, and some classic shortwave broadcasters got their start. The BBC began on shortwave as the \"BBC Empire Service\" in 1932. Its broadcasts were aimed principally at English speakers. Radio Moscow was broadcasting on shortwave in English, French, German, Italian and Arabic by 1939. The Voice of America (or VOA) began broadcasting in 1942 after its entry into World War II using the Yankee Doodle musical theme.\n\nWhile technically minded shortwave listening hobbyists dwindled during the war years due in part to the demands of military service, casual listeners seeking war news from foreign broadcasters increased. Shortwave receiver manufacturers contributed to war production. Zenith launched the multi-band Trans-Oceanic series of radios in 1942. In some other countries, during the war, listening to foreign stations was a criminal offense. Established in 1939, 35-kilowatt Chinese shortwave station XGOY broadcast programming aimed at listening-restricted Japan. The station was often bombed by the Japanese.\nCBS began a shortwave listening program in September 1939, on an experimental basis, at the National Lawn Tennis Championships at West Side Tennis Club in Forest Hills, New York. Engineers installed equipment at the CBS booth when the location was found to have good reception, and monitors relayed European shortwave news to CBS headquarters in New York between tennis matches. Throughout World War II, CBS captured Allied and enemy shortwave communications from more than 60 international stations via secretly located receivers. Translations of intercepted broadcasts were teletyped to all New York newspapers, Associated Press, United Press International and International News Service, and in turn disseminated to newspapers and radio stations throughout the United States. Major headline news frequently resulted, since big stories often broke first on radio.\n\nShortwave listeners notified families of prisoners of war when studio announcers at stations in Axis powers countries, such as Germany and Japan, read prisoner-written messages. Allied monitors notified families, but many shortwave listeners were often first to report the broadcasts. Listeners in other countries also monitored POW messages. Americans were actively discouraged from listening to these reports, however, since broadcasting the names of a few American prisoners was regarded as a propaganda trick to build up the listening audience for Axis radio programs. In May 1943 Jack Gerber, director of the CBS listening post, told journalist William L. Shirer that the International Red Cross was the only reliable source of information on prisoners, and expressed concern at receiving six or seven letters a week requesting transcripts of German broadcasts in which service members may have been mentioned:\n\nThe only reason the Nazis put on prisoner broadcasts is to get people justifiably anxious about relatives reported missing at the front to listen to their propaganda. Although many of the messages undoubtedly are true, they represent but a small fraction of our prisoners and we have no assurance that many of them are not faked from papers picked up on the battlefield. What concerns some of us is the consequences of listening to Nazi broadcasts unless you are a well-trained listener (and often, even if you are). Nazi arguments often sound plausible. A person may listen to them with all the skepticism in the world, knowing that every word is a lie. But if the content is sufficiently sensational (and it often is) the source may be forgotten in time, and out pops the Nazi lie, all unsuspecting.\n\nNew Zealand shortwave listeners reported POW voices broadcast over Radio Peking during the Korean War.\nIn the 1950s and 60s, shortwave DX columns in US magazines such as \"Popular Electronics\"′ \"Tuning the Short Wave Bands\" and \"Electronics Illustrated\"′s \"The Listener\" became news sources for serious radio listeners. \"Popular Electronics\"′ \"WPE Monitor Registration\" program, begun in 1959, even offered callsign-like identifiers to hobbyists. A number of specialty radio clubs such as the \"Newark News Radio Club\" also arose during these decades and provided hobbyists with an exchange of DX news and information. When Popular Electronics and similar magazines expanded coverage of new electronics topics in the 1970s, this led to the cancellation of several long-time shortwave listening columns.\n\nBeginning with \"Sweden Calling DXers\" on Radio Sweden in 1948 (there was a slightly earlier short-lived program from Radio Australia), many shortwave radio stations began programs providing news. Some of the other prominent DX programs were Radio Netherlands' \"DX Jukebox\" (which became \"Media Network\"), the \"SWL Digest\" on Radio Canada International, and the \"Swiss Shortwave Merry-go-round\" on Swiss Radio International.\n\nAn example of notable shortwave programming was the \"Happy Station Show\", popularly called the “world’s longest-running shortwave radio program”. The show originated on Philips Radio's PCJJ shortwave station in 1928, continuing until 1940. After World War II Radio Netherlands broadcast the show from 1946 until it terminated in 1995. Producer and presenter Keith Perron “resurrected” Happy Station on March 12, 2009. Although no longer associated with Radio Netherlands, the new effort proclaims itself as “transmitted globally via shortwave, podcasting and Internet streaming radio”.\n\nDuring the Persian Gulf War in the 1990s, many Americans tuned into foreign news broadcasts on shortwave. Some electronics retailers even reported a \"run\" on portable shortwave receivers due to the increased interest at the time.\n\nListening to shortwave broadcast stations for news and information programming is common, but for many shortwave listeners (abbreviated as \"SWLs\"), the goal is to receive as many stations from as many countries as possible, also known as DXing. \"DXers\" routinely test the limits of their antenna systems, radios and radio propagation knowledge. Specialized interests of shortwave listeners may include listening for shortwave utility, or \"ute\", transmissions such as shipping, sailing, naval, aviation, or military signals, listening for intelligence signals (numbers stations), or tuning in amateur radio stations.\nListeners often obtain QSL cards (which confirm contact) from ham operators, broadcasters or utility stations as trophies of the hobby. Traditionally, listeners would send letters to the station with reception reports and requests for schedules. Many stations now accept E-mails or provide reception report forms on their Web sites. Reception reports give valuable information about propagation and interference to a station's engineers.\n\nThere have been several publications dedicated to providing information to shortwave listeners, including the magazines \"Popular Communications\" (now a \"digital supplement\" to CQ Amateur Radio magazine), \"Monitoring Times\" (now defunct), and The Spectrum Monitor, a digital-only publication, in the United States, and the annual publications \"Passport to World Band Radio\" (now defunct) and the \"World Radio TV Handbook\" (WRTH). In addition, stations can provide broadcast schedules through the mail or E-mail. There are also shortwave radio programs dedicated to shortwave listening and DXing, such as the U.S.-based \"World of Radio\" and \"DXing With Cumbre\", but recently these programs have been curtailed or dropped by many international broadcasters. As of 2007, Radio Habana Cuba still hosts a program called DXers Unlimited.\n\nThere are estimated to be millions of shortwave listeners. In 2002, according to the National Association Of Shortwave Broadcasters, for estimated numbers of households with at least one shortwave set in working order, Asia led with a large majority, followed by Europe, Sub Saharan Africa, and the former Soviet Union, respectively. The total estimated number of households worldwide with at least one shortwave set in working order was said to be 600,000,000. SWLs are varied, with no common age or occupation. David Letterman is an admitted fan of the British Broadcasting Corporation (BBC).\n\nSome developing countries use shortwave as a means of receiving local and regional programming. China and Russia retransmits some domestic channels on shortwave that target listeners in far off provinces. Shortwave listening is also used as an educational tool in classrooms. Poor sound reproduction, unreliable signal quality, and inflexibility of access are seen as disadvantages.\nSome humanitarian organizations like \"Ears to Our World\" distribute portable, self-powered shortwave radios to less developed parts of the globe, enabling people in remote, impoverished parts of the world to get educational programming, local and international news, emergency information and music. Recently, the group was involved in sending radios to Haiti so victims of the 2010 Haiti earthquake could stay abreast of local disaster recovery efforts.\n\nRadios for shortwave reception generally have higher performance than those intended for the local mediumwave, longwave or FM broadcast band, since dependable reception of shortwave signals requires a radio with increased sensitivity, selectivity, dynamic range and frequency stability. Modern shortwave radio receivers are relatively inexpensive and easily accessible, and many hobbyists use portable \"world band\" receivers and built-in telescopic antennas.\n\nSerious hobbyists may use expensive (shortwave) communications receivers and outdoor antenna located away from electrical noise sources, such as a dipole made from wire and insulators.\n\nThe rise of the Internet has resulted in many broadcasters ceasing their shortwave transmissions in favor of broadcasting over the World Wide Web. When BBC World Service discontinued service to Europe, North America, Australasia, and the Caribbean, it generated many protests and activist groups such as the Coalition to Save the BBC World Service. In the US, the shifting of resources from shortwave to Internet and television by the Broadcasting Board of Governors, which oversees U.S. international broadcasting, has also resulted in reduced broadcasting hours in the English language. Radio Netherlands, Voice of Russia (formerly Radio Moscow), Radio Canada International and Radio Australia are among the prominent broadcasters who have ceased broadcasting on shortwave. Although most of the prominent broadcasters continue to scale back their analog shortwave transmissions or completely terminate them, shortwave is still very common and active in developing regions such as parts of Africa.\n\nSome international broadcasters have turned to a digital mode of broadcasting called Digital Radio Mondiale for their shortwave outlets. One reason is that digital shortwave broadcasts using DRM can cover the same geographic region with much less transmitter power — roughly one-fifth — than traditional AM mode broadcasts, significantly reducing the electricity cost of operating a station. A traditional AM (analog) international shortwave station can have a power rating of 50 kilowatts to as much as one million watts per transmitter, with typical power levels in the 50–500 kilowatt range. Endorsed by the ITU, it has been approved as an international standard for digital broadcasts on the HF (shortwave) bands. A DRM broadcast rivals FM mono quality and can also send graphic images and web pages via a separate information channel.\n\nShortwave listening also remains popular with some expatriates who tune in shortwave transmissions from their homeland. Additionally, a number of remotely controlled shortwave receivers located around the world are available to users on the web. While radio hobbyists report that the number of shortwave listening clubs has diminished and printed magazines devoted to the hobby are few, enthusiasts such as Glenn Hauser and others continue to populate web sites, and originate podcasts dedicated to the pursuit.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56475239", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56475239", "title": "The City of the Sun (film)", "text": "The City of the Sun (film)\n\nThe City of the Sun () is a 2005 comedy film written and directed by Martin Šulík and starring Oldřich Navrátil and Ľuboš Kostelný. The film won the main prize at the 2005 Finále Plzeň Film Festival. At the 2006 ceremony for The Sun in a Net Awards, the film won in six categories. The film was Slovakia's submission for the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film for the 78th Academy Awards. The film won in two categories at the Czech Lion Awards, specifically for music and editing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34094509", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34094509", "title": "Weddell Sea Bottom Water", "text": "Weddell Sea Bottom Water\n\nWeddell Sea Bottom Water (WSBW) is a subset of Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW) that is at a temperature of -0.7 °C or colder. It consists of a higher salinity branch and a lower salinity branch. It originates in the Weddell Sea and closely follows the sea floor as it flows out into the rest of the world's oceans. It is created mainly due to the high surface winds blowing off the Antarctic continent which helps cool and oxygenate it. It flows at a rate of 2 to 5 Sv and contributes to the overall flow of the AABW.\n\nThe Weddell Sea plays an important role in the movement of the world's oceans. An important part of the Weddell Sea is Weddell Sea Bottom Water (WSBW). WSBW is a major contributor to Antarctic Bottom Water (AABW). While WSBW is considered part of AABW, the distinction comes in its potential temperature. The potential temperature of WSBW is -0.7 °C. At this temperature, the potential temperature vs. salinity chart shows a sharp change in slope. The outflow of WSBW is influenced greatly by the Scotia Ridge. The movement of WBSW is listed as 16 Sv which contributes to a total 97 Sv outflow of AABW. 2 to 5 Sv of this production is newly formed bottom water off the Antarctic coast.\n\nThe Weddell Sea is characterized by a cyclonic gyre bounded on the south by the Antarctic continent, on the west by the Antarctic Peninsula, on the north by the Scotia Ridge, and extending as far east as 20 to 30°E. The precursor to bottom water formation is derived from the broad continental shelf west of 40°W where brine released during sea-ice formation produces a large reservoir of cold (0 to - 1.8 °C), high salinity (S ≥ 34.62 psu) shelf water. This water mass then mixes with a modified form of Warm Deep Water near the edge of the continental shelf to form a dense layer of bottom water, which in turn sinks along the continental slope and flows cyclonically around the western and northern perimeter of the Weddell Sea basin. Because large quantities of the high salinity water are observed on the continental shelf even during summer, bottom water may form throughout the year.\n\nWeddell Sea Bottom Water exhibits two forms: a low-salinity, better oxygenated component confined to the outer rim of the Weddell Gyre, and a more saline, less oxygenated component observed farther into the gyre. The more saline WSBW is derived from the southwestern Weddell Sea, where high salinity shelf water is abundant. The less saline WSBW, like the more ventilated Weddell Sea Deep Water (WSDW), is derived from lower-salinity shelf water at a point farther north along the Antarctic Peninsula.\n\nIt is important to distinguish between AABW and a subclass of this water mass, WSBW. WSBW is characterized by lower potential temperatures and larger near-bottom temperature gradients, suggesting recent formation in the southwestern and western Weddell Sea. As this bottom water spreads from its region of sinking, it eventually mixes with the warmer and more saline water above to form AABW. Along the Scotia Ridge-Cape Norvegia section, potential temperature values at depths greater than range from -0.94 to -0.63 °C, while salinity values range from 34.639 to 34.652 psu. The northern limit of the core of Weddell Sea Bottom Water lies against the southern edge of the Scotia Ridge, suggesting that the circulation and property distributions are strongly influenced by bathymetry.\n\nThe transport of Weddell Sea Bottom Water out of the Weddell Sea represents the outflow of newly formed bottom water plus entrained bottom water that enters the Weddell Sea from the southeast. Carmack and Foster estimated the production rate of bottom water from the mixing ratio of newly formed bottom water to entrained bottom water. Bottom water formation models based on hydrographic observations suggested that the bottom water formed at the edge of the continental shelf has an initial temperature of -1.4 to -1.2 °C. This range also represents the coldest bottom water observed at the base of the continental slope in the northwestern corner of the Weddell Sea. The fraction of newly formed bottom water in the outflowing WSBW ranges from about 12 to 31%, so the flow of newly formed bottom water out of the Weddell Sea is about 2 to 5 Sv. On the other hand, the much larger production rates sometimes proposed are probably estimates of the total transport of bottom water out of the Weddell Sea that include a large fraction of Antarctic Bottom Water entering the Weddell Sea from the southeast.\n\nThe low-salinity, better ventilated forms of WSDW and WSBW flowing along the outer rim of the Weddell Gyre have the position and depth range that would lead to overflow of the topographic confines of the Weddell Basin, whereas the more saline forms may be forced to recirculate within the Weddell Gyre are carried by the western boundary current of the Weddell Sea into the northwest corner of the Weddell Gyre. From there, these water masses flow eastward, either within the northern limb of the Weddell Gyre or reaching northward into the Scotia Sea, eventually cooling the lower 2 km of the world ocean as Antarctic Bottom Water.\n\nIt is proposed that the more saline, lower-oxygen WSBW is derived from shelf water descending into the deep ocean in the southwest Weddell Sea. The higher salinity of this WSBW is due to injection of high-salinity shelf water characteristic of the region. Fahrbach et al. propose that low-salinity bottom water is formed near the Larsen Ice Shelf.\n\nMcKee et al., conducted a study of the variability of bottom water temperature relative to El Niño-Southern Oscillation (ENSO), Southern Annular Mode (SAM), and Antarctic Dipole (ADP). This study was conducted to discover the impact WSBW has on the global climate. An 8-year time study of the potential temperature of the Weddell Gyre outflow was analyzed. Interannual variability was discovered in the winters of 1999 and 2002. The anomalies suggest ENSO influence with a 14-20 month lead time with influences from SAM at 14-20 month lead times as well. Warm ENSO events cause the increase of sea ice advection and more coastal polynyas which allows for more dense shelf water availability. These ENSO and SAM changes impact the WSBW 14–20 months later. Their research suggests that there needs to be large ENSO and SAM events in order for the anomalies in WSBW temperature can be noticed. These large fluctuations allow for warm and cold pulses in the WSBW. With a strong ENSO event, sea ice is greatly reduced during the summer which exposes more surface water to the wind allowing it sink. This makes the WSBW colder than normal allowing it to inject colder water into much of the world's oceans. If the ENSO even is weak enough, the surface winds off the Antarctic coast can shift direction which creates a reduction in shelf water. This will warm the WSBW as it does not have as much access to the cold, dense surface water.\n\n"}
{"id": "33260662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33260662", "title": "Čaj s kraljico", "text": "Čaj s kraljico\n\nČaj s kraljico is a novel by Slovenian author Evald Flisar. It was first published in 2004.\n\n"}
