{"id": "46748947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46748947", "title": "1627 Gargano earthquake", "text": "1627 Gargano earthquake\n\nThe 1627 Gargano earthquake struck Gargano, southern Italy, at about mid-day on 30 July 1627. A \"very large earthquake\" caused a major tsunami, the largest seismic event ever recorded in the Gargano region, which \"produced severe damage in the whole promontory\", killing about 5000 people. Four aftershocks were documented. The most extensive damage was noted between San Severo and Lesina.\n"}
{"id": "42235599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42235599", "title": "2014 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters", "text": "2014 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters\n\nThe 2014 Monte-Carlo Rolex Masters was a men's tennis tournament for male professional players, played from 12 April through 20 April 2014, on outdoor clay courts. It was the 108th edition of the annual Monte Carlo Masters tournament, which was sponsored by Rolex for the sixth time. It took place at the Monte Carlo Country Club in Monte Carlo, Monaco.\n\nBecause the Monte Carlo Masters is the non-mandatory Masters 1000 event, special rules regarding points distribution are in place. The Monte Carlo Masters counts as one of a player's 500 level tournaments, while distributing Masters 1000 points.\n\nThe total prize money pot for the 2014 competition is €3,452,415, distributed throughout both competitions.\n\n\nThe following players received wildcards into the main draw:\n\nThe following players received entry via qualifying:\n\nThe following players received entry as lucky losers:\n\n\n\n\nThe following pairs received wildcards into the doubles main draw:\n\nThe following pair received entry as alternates:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36205745", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36205745", "title": "Adom FM", "text": "Adom FM\n\nAdom FM is a privately owned radio station in Accra, the capital of Ghana. The station is owned and run by the media group company Multimedia Group Limited. The word \"Adom\" in the Twi dialect means \"grace\".\n\n"}
{"id": "13576763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13576763", "title": "Africa One", "text": "Africa One\n\nAfrica One was a privately owned pan-African airline. It was initially based in Entebbe, Uganda, with aircraft wet leased from Africa One Holdings, registered in Ireland. Africa One Congo was a subsidiary based in Kinshasa. It is not clear if the same airline or another of the same name was the operator of the An-26 that crashed with high fatality numbers in the DRC in 2007, but most likely it was operated by the company's Congolese subsidiary, because soon after the incident its operations shut down. Africa One operated in years 2002-2004 and Africa One Congo operated in years 2002-2007.\n\nThe airline is on the List of air carriers banned in the European Union.\n\nAfrica One initially was announced 29 April 2002 using DC-9s to serve Entebbe, Lagos, Freetown, Sierra Leone, and Banjul Gambia with bi-weekly service from those cities to London Gatwick and Dubai by DC-10.\n\nAfrica One used A320, DC-10 and DC-9 on their operations, Africa One Congo used An-26 and An-32 equipment operating mainly cargo flights.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23205639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23205639", "title": "Ariana (beer)", "text": "Ariana (beer)\n\nAriana is a Bulgarian beer brand, produced by the Zagorka Brewery since 2004. The company was established in 1884, and for most of its history brewed at the Ariana Brewery in central Sofia. It was bought by Heineken in 1997 and currently has four brands – Ariana Light (5% ABV), Ariana Dark (5.5% ABV) and two citrus-flavoured brands available only in summer – Ariana Radler lemon and grapefruit (1.8% ABV).\n\n"}
{"id": "3412641", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3412641", "title": "At the Back of the Black Man's Mind", "text": "At the Back of the Black Man's Mind\n\nAt the Back of the Black Man's Mind is a book by Richard Edward Dennett published in 1906. It provides many details on the folklore, culture, and religion of the Bantu and Yoruba. However, many of its characterizations would today be considered colonialist or racist. Also, it provides many theories about the facts presented which are incorrect or irrelevant.\n\n"}
{"id": "2486285", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2486285", "title": "Cernavodă culture", "text": "Cernavodă culture\n\nThe Cernavodă culture, ca. 4000—3200 BC, was a late Copper Age archaeological culture. It was along the lower Eastern Bug River and Danube and along the coast of the Black Sea and somewhat inland, generally in present-day Romania and Bulgaria. It is named after the Romanian town of Cernavodă.\n\nIt is a successor to and occupies much the same area as the earlier neolithic Karanovo culture, for which a destruction horizon seems to be evident. It is part of the \"Balkan-Danubian complex\" that stretches up the entire length of the river and into northern Germany via the Elbe and the Baden culture; its northeastern portion is thought to be ancestral to the Usatovo culture.\n\nIt is characterized by defensive hilltop settlements. The pottery shares traits with that found further east on the south-west Eurasian steppe; burials similarly bear a resemblance to those further east.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55882878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55882878", "title": "Cheshnegirovo Air Base", "text": "Cheshnegirovo Air Base\n\nCheshnegirovo Air Base/Sadovo used to house the 25th Fighter-Bomber Air Regiment (flying MiG-23BN/UBs) of the 10th Combined Air Corps. According to the major restructuring plans it became the first regiment to convert to an air base structure. Briefly it housed the entire Bulgarian MiG-23 fleet after which it disbanded.\n\nCheshnegirovo Air Base (ICAO code: Z07T) * Inactive * \nAlternate name Sadovo. Also spelled 'Tcheshnigirovo'. Located in central Bulgaria, north east of Plovdiv. Date when built - 1951. Home of 25 Fighter-Bomber Air Regiment of 10th Composite Air Corps, with the MiG-17. In 1976 it received the MiG-23BN. The base closed in 2000 and is now used for the storage of aircraft. There are reports that the 68 Special Forces Brigade will move here from Plovdiv.\n\nRunway data: Location: N42 06 50.91 E024 59 34.59, Elev: 604 ft (184 m), Rwy 10/28, Size: 8345 x 170 ft (2544 x 52 m), concrete.\n\nReferences:\n\nReferences:\n\n\nСнимки на авиобазата след нейното затваряне.\n\nAir Base History\nAir Group 2000\n"}
{"id": "34430278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34430278", "title": "Codex Wormianus", "text": "Codex Wormianus\n\nThe Codex Wormianus or AM 242 fol. is an Icelandic vellum codex dating from the mid-14th century. It contains an edition of the Prose Edda and some additional material on poetics, including the First Grammatical Treatise. It is the only manuscript to preserve the Rígsþula.\n\nThe manuscript is believed to have been written in the Benedictine monastery Þingeyraklaustur in Þingeyrar in northern Iceland around 1350. It was obtained by the runologist Ole Worm from the Icelandic scholar Arngrímur Jónsson in 1628, according to an inscription on the first page of the work. In 1706, Árni Magnússon obtained the document from Ole Worm's nephew, Christian Worm. Today it remains part of the Arnamagnæan Manuscript Collection at the Arnamagnæan Institute in Copenhagen, Denmark.\n\n"}
{"id": "2515284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2515284", "title": "Committee on Gender, Family, Youths, and People with Disabilities", "text": "Committee on Gender, Family, Youths, and People with Disabilities\n\nThe Committee on Gender, Family, Youths and People with Disabilities is one of the ten permanent committees of the Pan-African Parliament. It concentrates on issues concerning women, family and people and children with disabilities.\n\nFunctions of the Committee:\n\n\nChairperson of the Committee is the Hon Bwambale Biira Loice (Uganda). \n\nThe Deputy Chairperson is the Hon Blandine Sawagogo Ouedraogo (Burkina Faso). \n\nThe Rapporteur is the Hon Paul Temba Nyathi (Zimbabwe).\n"}
{"id": "482844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=482844", "title": "Corteno", "text": "Corteno\n\nThe Corteno or is a breed of sheep from the Val Camonica, in the province of Brescia in Lombardy, northern Italy. It is raised in the comune of Corteno Golgi, from which it takes its name, and in the neighbouring comuni of Edolo, Malonno and Paisco Loveno, all lying within the Comunità Montana di Valle Camonica. It is one of the forty-two autochthonous local sheep breeds of limited distribution for which a herdbook is kept by the Associazione Nazionale della Pastorizia, the Italian national association of sheep-breeders.\n\nThe origin of the Corteno breed is unknown, but is probably shared with that of other lop-eared breeds of the Alpine region such as the Bergamasca, the Biellese and the Lamon. Numbers were estimated at 4000 in 1983, and at about 1600 in 1995. In 2006 the total number was estimated at 1500, of which 131 were registered in the herdbook. The conservation status of the breed was listed as \"critical\" by the FAO in 2007. In 2013 the number registered for the breed was 295.\n\nThe meat of the Corteno is exceptionally fatty. It is traditionally used to produce Cuz, a local type of preserved meat. Whole carcases of wether mutton are boiled in a cauldron for five or six hours with salt and a little water; the meat is then put up in terracotta jars with more salt and sealed with the mutton-fat.\n"}
{"id": "38906670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38906670", "title": "Cultural monument (Czech Republic)", "text": "Cultural monument (Czech Republic)\n\nThe cultural monuments of the Czech Republic (Czech: \"kulturní památka\") are protected properties (both real and movable properties) designated by the Ministry of Culture of the Czech Republic. Cultural monuments that constitute the most important part of the Czech cultural heritage may be declared national cultural monuments (Czech: \"národní kulturní památka\") by a regulation of the Government of the Czech Republic.\n\nThe criteria for declaring an object a cultural monument, as well as the rules of their protection and management are defined in Act 20/1987 Coll., on State Heritage Preservation. The criteria include objects that are an \"important record of historical development, way of life and environment of society from the most ancient times to the present day, as a display of creative skills and work of humankind from the various fields of human activities, for their revolutionary, historic, artistic, scientific and technical values, [or] that have a direct relation to important personalities and historic events\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26016849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26016849", "title": "Danziger Echo", "text": "Danziger Echo\n\nDanziger Echo was a Zionist Jewish newspaper in the Free City of Danzig, edited by Theodor Loevy and Paul Bermann. The publication of \"Danziger Echo\" was discontinued on July 18, 1936, as the government of the Free City issued a ten-month suspension of the paper.\n"}
{"id": "36742417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36742417", "title": "David Margolese", "text": "David Margolese\n\nDavid Margolese (born October 24, 1957) is an entrepreneur and a founder of Sirius XM Radio, serving as chairman and CEO from 1993 to 2002. Considered \"one of the earliest advocates of pay radio,\" he \"effectively created the industry.\"\n\nMargolese was born and raised in Vancouver, British Columbia. He attended the University of British Columbia, dropping out after one year. His father, Leonard, also dropped out of college, to sell television sets in the early 1950s, ultimately building a successful television store.\n\nIn 1978, at the age of 20, Margolese founded Canadian Telecom, a Vancouver-based radio paging company. He struggled in his early years as an entrepreneur. In 1980, he changed his company’s focus to what would become the future cellular market. He prognosticated in his 1980 position paper, years before the commercial introduction of cellular and at a time when computers were in use by less than one percent of the public, that cellular \"has the potential to become all pervasive.\" He also envisioned that it would \"be used for much more\" than just phone calls. When cell phones became widely available, it paid big dividends for Margolese. His company joined with Rogers Communications to form Cantel (a contraction of the name Canadian Telecom). Cantel would ultimately become Rogers Wireless, as of 2012 the largest cellular company in Canada, with over 9.3 million subscribers and revenues over $7 billion. Margolese cashed out of the company in 1989 to found his next venture.\n\nFollowing a brief, unsuccessful stint in Israel struggling to land a license for his new cellular consortium Teletec, Margolese moved to New York City in 1990 and purchased control of a newly formed venture named CD Radio Inc. He served as chairman and CEO of the satellite radio company. Margolese believed that, like cable TV, satellite radio would find an audience willing to pay for variety.\n\nThe primary obstacle faced by CD Radio and then Sirius was resistance from the Federal Communications Commission (FCC), who were under pressure from the National Association of Broadcasters, who felt threatened by the competition. In 1997, the FCC granted both CD Radio and XM Satellite Radio licenses to use a part of the S-band spectrum, costing CD Radio $83 million.\n\nIn 1999, Margolese changed the name of CD Radio to Sirius Satellite Radio, so as not to be identified with the outdated technology of compact discs. Margolese raised $1.8 billion to launch Sirius. Some of the money was obtained by gaining exclusive rights from Ford, Chrysler, BMW and Mercedes-Benz to feature Sirius in their automobiles.\n\nAlong with co-founder and former NASA engineer Robert Briskman, Margolese oversaw the development of the custom satellites, receivers and other technologies to bring satellite radio to consumers. Margolese also designed Sirius’s $40 million headquarters at Rockefeller Center in Manhattan. According to Margolese, each satellite cost about a quarter-billion dollars to build, insure and launch. At the end of 2000, Sirius launched its third satellite into space, from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan.\n\nIn November 2001, Margolese stepped down as CEO, remaining as chairman until November 2003, with Sirius issuing a statement thanking him \"for his great vision, leadership and dedication in creating both Sirius and the satellite radio industry.\" Sirius acquired XM in 2008, becoming Sirius XM Radio. Through 2013, Sirius XM has reported 25.6 million subscribers, up 7% from the previous year, and revenues of $3.8 billion, up 12% from the previous year. In 2012, one of Sirius's original backup satellites, now decommissioned, was donated for display to the Smithsonian Institution’s National Air and Space Museum.\n\nMargolese was named one of ten finalists for the 1999 Entrepreneur of the Year by Harvard Business School. He was inducted into NASA’s Space Technology Hall of Fame in 2002.\n\nIn 2002, Margolese moved to Israel, fulfilling a lifelong dream.\n\n"}
{"id": "54448711", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54448711", "title": "Deutscher Verband", "text": "Deutscher Verband\n\nThe Deutscher Verband was a coalition of bourgeois German speaking political parties that was formed in South Tyrol in 1919 after the region was annexed by Italy. It was a merger of the Catholic Tiroler Volkspartei and the liberal nationalist Deutschfreiheitliche Partei. The German speaking Social Democrats, for their part, joined with the Italian Socialist Party.\n\nAt the Italian general election, 1921 the coalition won 90% of the vote and elected all four of the deputies that were allotted to the region. The first leader of the Deutscher Verband was Eduard Reut-Nicolussi. In 1923 he was replaced by the lawyer Karl Tinzl. The most important press organ of the DV, until its prohibition, was the \"Tiroler\" (after 1923, \"Der Landsmann\").\n\nThe DV as banned along with the rest of the non-Fascist parties in 1926. After 1945, the political tradition of the DV was continued by the South Tyrolean People's Party, which had the same leaders, and also used the edelweiss as its election symbol.\n"}
{"id": "6991829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6991829", "title": "E!E", "text": "E!E\n\nE!E is an important punk rock band from Příbram in the Czech Republic. It was founded in fall 1987 and it still plays today. The band members are: vocals: Bořivoj Řehoř, lead guitar and vocals: Petr Bakalerov, guitar: Petr Stawarz, bass: Petr Mottl, drums: Roman Vojtíšek.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49738618", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49738618", "title": "Economic Advisory Committee", "text": "Economic Advisory Committee\n\nThe British Labour Party's Economic Advisory Committee was in 2015-16 a group of economists, described as experts on globalisation, inequality and innovation, convened by Shadow Chancellor John McDonnell and reporting to Labour Party Leader Jeremy Corbyn, announced on 27 September 2015 at the Labour Party Conference in Brighton, and intended to meet on a quarterly basis to discuss and develop ideas around the official economic strategy to be advocated by the Labour Party, but not to set policy. It has been described a way to give the Shadow Chancellor defensive cover. \n\nIn June 2016 Pickett and Blanchflower left, and the remaining members of the Economic Advisory Committee announced they had decided to postpone any further meetings, in the wake of the resignation of numerous members of the Shadow Cabinet in protest over Jeremy Corbyn's leadership.\n\nThe committee originally consisted of seven members, described by then \"BBC News\" Economics Editor Robert Peston as, \"some of the world's most influential left-wing economists\".\n\n\nThe inclusion of Piketty and Stilgitz was seen as a particular coup for the Labour Party leadership due to their breakthrough success in mainstream publishing, while the absence of Richard Murphy, who had advised Corbyn on his cornerstone policy of People's Quantitative Easing was noted.\n\nFollowing the formation of the committee, Economics Editors Robert Peston, then of \"BBC News\", and Chris Giles, of the \"Financial Times\", confirmed that the seven members were unified in their opposition to the spending cuts of Chancellor George Osborne, although the latter warned that they had less in common in other areas.\n\nRegarding the formation of the committee, its convener, John McDonnell later stated, as part of a series of public debates to present his Party's \"New Economics\", that the Economic Advisory Committee had initially been set up to conduct reviews into public institutions including HM Treasury, the Monetary Policy Committee and HM Revenue and Customs, and that it was due to the surprising number of people at the 2015 Labour Party Conference in Brighton who felt the Labour Party should be an anti-austerity party that the policy of anti-austerity was set. Committee member David Blanchflower, who confirmed he was undertaking an independent review of the Bank of England for the shadow chancellor, had however stated that opposition to austerity on its own was not enough and that it would take some time to produce a coherent new economic strategy that party members share.\n\nThe formation of the committee, according to Robert Peston, then \"BBC News\" Economics Editor, went some way to answering the common charge that Jeremy Corbyn and John McDonnell were \"left-wing dinosaurs\" and would ensure, \"a properly emotional debate\" between the Labour Party and the Conservative Party about, \"how to maximise growth and prosperity\". Peston went on to contend that this was the first time since Conservative Party Leader Margaret Thatcher had drawn upon the ideas of Milton Friedman and Friedrich Hayek, that a leading British political party had, \"attempted to establish an economic ideology outside the mainstream\". Chris Giles, \"The Financial Times\" Economics Editor, countered this claim by referencing relationships between former Labour Party Leaders and economists, such as Neil Kinnock with John Eatwell and Piero Sraffa, and Gordon Brown with Robert Reich and Richard B. Freeman, as well as Conservative Chancellor George Osborne with Alan Budd and Kenneth Rogoff. Although, as Peston concludes, none of these had formed a similar committee.\n\nThe first meeting of the committee was convened at 2pm on 12 November 2015, at Labour Party’s Brewers Green headquarters, with Shadow Business Secretary Angela Eagle, Shadow Chief Secretary Seema Malhotra and the entire Shadow Treasury team in attendance. At the meeting, Simon Wren-Lewis spoke about fiscal policy, Mariana Mazzucato about strategic investment, and Ann Pettifor about the importance of a strong economic narrative. Although Anastasia Nesvetailova and David Blanchflower were also in attendance, the latter via Skype, neither of the two most high-profile members, Thomas Piketty and Joseph Stiglitz, were present at this initial meeting.\n\nOn 26 January 2016, committee member Mariana Mazzucato, gave the first of the \"New Economics Tour\", which had been announced by John McDonnell with the intention of broadening the political debate.\n\nIn January 2016, coinciding with the start of the party's series of public debates presenting their \"New Economics\", it was reported in the \"New Statesman\" that the committee had only met once and members had accused the party of having “stupid ideas” about economic policy. In the article which the report was based upon David Blanchflower, committee member and \"New Statesman\" economics editor, confirmed that although the committee had only met once the plan was to convene every quarter from then on and that the \"silly stuff\" he referred to was companies not being able to pay dividends if they don’t do certain things. Blanchflower, who admitted that it was early days and that the new Labour Party still did not have many economic policies to speak of, nonetheless confirmed that economists in the group were smart, left-leaning and credible, and that it was time to start thinking about how Labour could become a credible opposition.\n\nBlanchflower quit the panel and said he would also wind up his review of the role of the Bank of England on 28 June 2016 following the mass resignations of the Shadow Cabinet, joining them in calling for Corbyn to step down. Piketty revealed that he had also left the panel in June, citing work commitments. He also criticised Labour's \"very weak\" referendum campaign to remain in the EU but said this was not a factor in his decision.\n\nSome other members of the panel, including Mazzucato, Pettifor and Wren-Lewis issued a statement saying the panel had agreed to delay further meetings as a result of mass resignations over the leadership of Jeremy Corbyn. They also criticised the Labour leadership over the EU campaign, but said they saw their role as \"providing advice to the Labour party as a whole, and not as an endorsement of particular individuals within\" and would be \"honoured\" to serve the party in future after the leadership situation was resolved Simon Wren-Lewis later joined with Blanchflower endorsing Owen Smith over Corbyn for the leadership on 31 July 2016.\nShortly after the formation of the committee, Robert Peston contended that the composition of the panel signalled that People's Quantitative Easing, the policy of requiring the Bank of England to print money to finance government investment, which had up to that point been considered the cornerstone of Jeremy Corbyn's economic policy, was probably dead, as he felt that while this particular group of economists would, \"back the notion of the government taking advantage of prevailing low interest rates to borrow considerably more for investment in infrastructure,\" they would not support the ultra formulation of the policy, \"for fear that the anti-inflationary credentials of the Bank of England would be destroyed\", and that if the policy survived it would be as, \"a contingent rainy-day monetary tool, for when the economy is next in direst straits.\"\n"}
{"id": "41308352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41308352", "title": "Embassy of Slovakia, London", "text": "Embassy of Slovakia, London\n\nThe Embassy of Slovakia in London is the diplomatic mission of Slovakia in the United Kingdom. It is located at the junction of Kensington Palace Gardens and Bayswater Road in a building it shares with the Embassy of the Czech Republic.\n\nThe Embassy of Czechoslovakia was originally located on Grosvenor Place, before moving to the location of the current Czech and Slovak embassies in 1970. The construction of a new brutalist-style building at this site had begun in 1965 and was undertaken by Jan Bočan, Jan Šrámek and Karel Štěpánský from the atelier Beta Prague Project Institute; it received an award from the Royal Institute of British Architects for the best building in the United Kingdom created by foreign architects. The building was then divided between the Czech and Slovak Republics following the dissolution of Czechoslovakia in 1993.\n\n"}
{"id": "47213194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47213194", "title": "Flag of Alsace", "text": "Flag of Alsace\n\nThe flag of Alsace (Alsatian: or , \"red and white\") is the original red and white flag of the region, and can be traced to the red and white banner of Gerard, Duke of Lorraine in the 11th century.\n\nParticularly since the introduction of new French region Grand Est, the traditional \" flag of Alsace has been widely promoted by the advocates of the Alsace autonomous movement.\n\nThe original flag of Alsace, the \"\", dates back to the red and white banner of Gerard, Duke of Lorraine in the 11th century.\n\nRed and white colours are commonly found on the coat of arms of Alsatian cities such as Strasbourg, Mulhouse and Sélestat, and additionally of many Swiss cities, especially in the region of Basel-Landschaft.\n\nPerhaps as the ' marks the Germanic roots of Alsace, it was replaced in 1949 by a new flag, representing the union of the two ' of and , however without real historical relevance. It was subsequently modified to a slightly different appearance, yet also representing the two departments.\n\nThere is controversy around the recognition of the Alsatian flag.\n\nWith the purpose of \"Francosizing\" the region, the ' has not been recognised by the French government. Some French politicians have erroneously called this a \"Nazi invention\" — while the ' is still known as the real historical emblem of the region by most of the population and the departments' parliaments.\n\nSubsequently, the \"\" has been widely used during protests against the creation of a new \"super-region\" Grand Est, gathering Champagne-Ardennes, Lorraine and Alsace, namely on Colmar's statue of liberty.\n"}
{"id": "29197249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29197249", "title": "Free Trade Unions (Germany)", "text": "Free Trade Unions (Germany)\n\nThe Free Trade Unions (German: \"Freie Gewerkschaften\"; sometimes also translated as Free Labor Unions or Free Labour Unions) comprised the socialist trade union movement in Germany from 1890 to 1933. The term distinguished them from the liberal (\"yellow\") and Christian labor unions in Germany. Coordinated by the General Commission of German Trade Unions until 1919 and later by the Federal Executive of the German Trade Union Federation, the Free Trade Unions consisted of forty-six individual labor organizations with a total of 2.5 million members as of 1914. The term \"free\" was to note that these unions were independent worker organizations. The liberal (\"yellow\") unions were considered to be controlled by management and the \"Christian\" trade unions by the Catholic Church. \n\nLater, the term \"free trade unions\" also indicated those that were not fronts for the Communist Party. \n\n"}
{"id": "58165066", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58165066", "title": "Fuji House of Commotion", "text": "Fuji House of Commotion\n\nFuji House of Commotion is a Nigerian sitcom. It was produced and directed by Amaka Igwe.\n\nIt stars Kunle Bamtefa as Chief Fuji, Toun Oni as Mama Moji, Ngozi Nwosu as Peace, Louisa Onu as Ireti, Ireti Doyle as Caro, Jude Orhoha as Gbenro, John Njamah as Rabiu, and Chika Chukwu as Jumoke among others.\n\nThe sitcom revolves around a rich man (Chief T.A. Fuji) who is married to four women and had numerous kids to provide for. Some episodes also feature family friends such as Victor Eze as Alika.\n"}
{"id": "4789901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4789901", "title": "German Civil Service Federation", "text": "German Civil Service Federation\n\nThe German Civil Service Federation (Deutscher Beamtenbund, DBB) is a national trade union center in Germany. It has a membership of 1,250,000, and is affiliated with the European Confederation of Independent Trade Unions.\n\n"}
{"id": "23883827", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23883827", "title": "Governor-General of Malta", "text": "Governor-General of Malta\n\nThe Governor-General of Malta () was the official representative of Her Majesty Elizabeth II, Queen of Malta, in the State of Malta from 1964 to 1974. This office replaced that of the Governor, and it was replaced by that of President upon the proclamation of the Republic of Malta.\n\n"}
{"id": "19038039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19038039", "title": "Hundred Years' War", "text": "Hundred Years' War\n\nThe Hundred Years' War was a series of conflicts waged from 1337 to 1453 by the House of Plantagenet, rulers of the Kingdom of England, against the French House of Valois, over the right to rule the Kingdom of France. Each side drew many allies into the war. It was one of the most notable conflicts of the Middle Ages, in which five generations of kings from two rival dynasties fought for the throne of the largest kingdom in Western Europe. The war marked both the height of chivalry and its subsequent decline, and the development of strong national identities in both countries.\n\nTensions between the crowns of France and England can be traced back to the origins of the English royal family itself, which was French (Norman, and later, Angevin) in origin. For this reason, English monarchs had historically held not only the English crown, but also titles and lands within France, the possession of which made them vassals to the kings of France. The status of the English king's French fiefs was a major source of conflict between the two monarchies throughout the Middle Ages. French monarchs systematically sought to check the growth of English power, stripping away lands as the opportunity arose, particularly whenever England was at war with Scotland, an ally of France. Over the centuries, English holdings in France had varied in size, at some points dwarfing even the French royal domain; by 1337, however, only Gascony was left to the English.\n\nIn 1316, a principle was established denying women succession to the French throne (later retroactively attributed to the ancient Salic law). In 1328, Charles IV of France died without sons or brothers. His closest male relative was his nephew Edward III of England, whose mother, Isabella of France, was sister of the deceased king. Isabella claimed the throne of France for her son, but the French rejected it, maintaining that Isabella could not transmit a right she did not possess. Furthermore, political sentiment favored a Frenchman for the crown rather than a foreign prince. The throne passed instead to Philip, Count of Valois, a patrilineal cousin of Charles IV, who would become Philip VI of France, the first king of the House of Valois. The English had not expected their claim to meet with success, and did not press the matter when it was denied. However, disagreements between Philip and Edward induced the former to confiscate the latter's lands in France, and in turn prompted Edward III to reassert his claim to the French throne.\n\nSeveral overwhelming English victories in the war—especially at Crécy, Poitiers, and Agincourt—raised the prospects of an ultimate English triumph, and convinced the English to continue pouring money and manpower into the war over many decades. However, the greater resources of the French monarchy prevented the English kings from ever completing the conquest of France. Starting in 1429, decisive French victories at Orléans, Patay, Formigny, and Castillon concluded the war in favour of the House of Valois, with England permanently losing most of its possessions on the continent.\n\nHistorians commonly divide the war into three phases separated by truces: the Edwardian War (1337–1360), the Caroline War (1369–1389), and the Lancastrian War (1415–1453). Local conflicts in neighbouring areas, which were contemporarily related to the war, including the War of the Breton Succession (1341–1365), the Castilian Civil War (1366–1369), the War of the Two Peters (1356–1369) in Aragon, and the 1383–85 crisis in Portugal, were availed by the parties to advance their agendas. Later historians adopted the term \"Hundred Years' War\" as a historiographical periodization to encompass all of these events, thus constructing the longest military conflict in European history.\n\nThe war owes its historical significance to multiple factors. By its end, feudal armies had been largely replaced by professional troops, and aristocratic dominance had yielded to a democratisation of the manpower and weapons of armies. Although primarily a dynastic conflict, the war gave impetus to ideas of French and English nationalism. The wider introduction of weapons and tactics supplanted the feudal armies where heavy cavalry had dominated, and artillery became important. The war precipitated the creation of the first standing armies in Western Europe since the time of the Western Roman Empire, thus helping to change their role in warfare. With respect to the belligerents, in France, civil wars, deadly epidemics, famines, and bandit free-companies of mercenaries reduced the population drastically. In England, political forces over time came to oppose the costly venture. The dissatisfaction of English nobles, resulting from the loss of their continental landholdings, as well as the general shock at losing a war in which investment had been so great, became factors leading to the Wars of the Roses (1455–1487).\n\nThe root causes of the conflict can be found in the demographic, economic and political crises of 14th century Europe. The outbreak of war was motivated by a gradual rise in tension between the kings of France and England about Gascony, Flanders and Scotland. The dynastic question, which arose due to an interruption of the direct male line of the Capetians, was the official pretext.\n\nThe question of female succession to the French throne was raised after the death of Louis X in 1316. Louis X left only a daughter, and his posthumous son John I lived only a few days. Furthermore, the paternity of his daughter was in question, as her mother, Margaret of Burgundy, had been exposed as an adulterer in the Tour de Nesle affair. Philip, Count of Poitiers, brother of Louis X, positioned himself to take the crown, advancing the stance that women should be ineligible to succeed to the French throne. Through his political sagacity he won over his adversaries and succeeded to the French throne as Philip V. By the same law that he procured, his daughters were denied the succession, which passed to his younger brother, Charles IV, in 1322.\n\nCharles IV died in 1328, leaving a daughter and a pregnant wife. If the unborn child was male, he would become king; if not, Charles left the choice of his successor to the nobles. A girl ended up being born, therefore rendering the main male line of the House of Capet extinct.\n\nBy proximity of blood, the nearest male relative of Charles IV was his nephew Edward III of England. Edward was the son of Isabella, the sister of the dead Charles IV, but the question arose whether she should be able to transmit a right to inherit that she did not herself possess. The French nobility, moreover, balked at the prospect of being ruled by Isabelle and her lover Roger Mortimer, who were widely suspected of having murdered the previous English king, Edward II. The assemblies of the French barons and prelates and the University of Paris decided that males who derive their right to inheritance through their mother should be excluded. Thus the nearest heir through male ancestry was Charles IV's first cousin, Philip, Count of Valois, and it was decided that he should be crowned Philip VI. In 1340 the Avignon papacy confirmed that under Salic law males should not be able to inherit through their mothers.\n\nEventually, Edward III reluctantly recognized Philip VI and paid him homage for his French fiefs. He made concessions in Guyenne, but reserved the right to reclaim territories arbitrarily confiscated. After that, he expected to be left undisturbed while he made war on Scotland.\n\nTensions between the French and English monarchies can be traced back to the 1066 Norman conquest of England, in which the English throne was seized by the Duke of Normandy, a vassal of the King of France. As a result, the crown of England was held by a succession of nobles who already owned lands in France, which put them among the most powerful subjects of the French king, as they could now draw upon the economic power of England to enforce their interests in the mainland. To the kings of France, this dangerously threatened their royal authority, and so they would constantly try to undermine English rule in France, while the English monarchs would struggle to protect and expand their lands. This clash of interests was the root cause of much of the conflict between the French and English monarchies throughout the medieval era.\n\nThe Anglo-Norman dynasty that had ruled England since the Norman conquest of 1066 was brought to an end when Henry, the son of Geoffrey of Anjou and Empress Matilda and great-grandson of William the Conqueror, became the first of the Angevin kings of England in 1154 as Henry II. The Angevin kings directly ruled over more French territory than the kings of France. However, they still owed homage for these territories to the French king. From the 11th century onward, the Angevins had autonomy within their French domains, effectively neutralizing the issue.\n\nKing John of England inherited the Angevin domains from his brother Richard I. However, Philip II of France acted decisively to exploit the weaknesses of John, both legally and militarily, and by 1204 had succeeded in taking control of much of the Angevin continental possessions. Following John's reign, the Battle of Bouvines (1214), the Saintonge War (1242), and finally the War of Saint-Sardos (1324), the English king's holdings on the continent, as Duke of Aquitaine (Guyenne), were limited roughly to provinces in Gascony.\n\nThe dispute over Guyenne is even more important than the dynastic question in explaining the outbreak of the war. Guyenne posed a significant problem to the kings of France and England: Edward III was a vassal of Philip VI of France because of his French possessions and was required to recognize the suzerainty of the King of France over them. In practical terms, a judgment in Guyenne might be subject to an appeal to the French royal court. The King of France had the power to revoke all legal decisions made by the King of England in Aquitaine, which was unacceptable to the English. Therefore, sovereignty over Guyenne was a latent conflict between the two monarchies for several generations.\n\nDuring the War of Saint-Sardos, Charles of Valois, father of Philip VI, invaded Aquitaine on behalf of Charles IV and conquered the duchy after a local insurrection, which the French believed had been incited by Edward II of England. Charles IV grudgingly agreed to return this territory in 1325. To recover his duchy, Edward II had to compromise: he sent his son, the future Edward III, to pay homage.\n\nThe King of France agreed to restore Guyenne, minus Agen. But the French delayed the return of the lands, which helped Philip VI. On 6 June 1329, Edward III finally paid homage to the King of France. However, at the ceremony, Philip VI had it recorded that the homage was not due to the fiefs detached from the duchy of Guyenne by Charles IV (especially Agen). For Edward, the homage did not imply the renunciation of his claim to the extorted lands.\n\nIn the 11th century, Gascony in southwest France had been incorporated into Aquitaine (also known as \"Guyenne\" or \"Guienne\") and formed with it the province of Guyenne and Gascony (French: \"Guyenne-et-Gascogne\"). The Angevin kings of England became Dukes of Aquitaine after Henry II married the former Queen of France, Eleanor of Aquitaine, in 1152, from which point the lands were held in vassalage to the French crown. By the 13th century the terms Aquitaine, Guyenne and Gascony were virtually synonymous. At the beginning of Edward III's reign on 1 February 1327, the only part of Aquitaine that remained in his hands was the Duchy of Gascony. The term Gascony came to be used for the territory held by the Angevin (Plantagenet) Kings of England in southwest France, although they still used the title Duke of Aquitaine.\n\nFor the first 10 years of Edward III's reign, Gascony had been a major point of friction. The English argued that, as Charles IV had not acted in a proper way towards his tenant, Edward should be able to hold the duchy free of any French suzerainty. This argument was rejected by the French, so in 1329, the 17-year-old Edward III paid homage to Philip VI. Tradition demanded that vassals approach their liege unarmed with heads bare. Edward protested by attending the ceremony wearing his crown and sword. Even after this pledge of homage, the French continued to pressure the English administration.\n\nGascony was not the only sore point. One of Edward's influential advisers was Robert III of Artois. Robert was an exile from the French court, having fallen out with Philip VI over an inheritance claim. He urged Edward to start a war to reclaim France, and was able to provide extensive intelligence on the French court.\n\nFrance was an ally of the Kingdom of Scotland as English kings had for some time tried to subjugate the area. In 1295, a treaty was signed between France and Scotland during the reign of Philip the Fair. Charles IV formally renewed the treaty in 1326, promising Scotland that France would support the Scots if England invaded their country. Similarly, France would have Scotland's support if its own kingdom was attacked. Edward could not succeed in his plans for Scotland if the Scots could count on French support.\n\nPhilip VI had assembled a large naval fleet off Marseilles as part of an ambitious plan for a crusade to the Holy Land. However, the plan was abandoned and the fleet, including elements of the Scottish Navy, moved to the English Channel off Normandy in 1336, threatening England. To deal with this crisis, Edward proposed that the English raise two armies, one to deal with the Scots \"at a suitable time\", the other to proceed at once to Gascony. At the same time, ambassadors were to be sent to France with a proposed treaty for the French king.\n\nAt the end of April 1337, Philip of France was invited to meet the delegation from England but refused. The \"arrière-ban\", literally a call to arms, was proclaimed throughout France starting on 30 April 1337. Then, in May 1337, Philip met with his Great Council in Paris. It was agreed that the Duchy of Aquitaine, effectively Gascony, should be taken back into the king's hands on the grounds that Edward III was in breach of his obligations as vassal and had sheltered the king's 'mortal enemy' Robert d'Artois. Edward responded to the confiscation of Aquitaine by challenging Philip's right to the French throne. When Charles IV died, Edward had made a claim for the succession of the French throne, through the right of his mother Isabella (Charles IV's sister), daughter of Philip IV. Any claim was considered invalidated by Edward's homage to Philip VI in 1329. Edward revived his claim and in 1340 formally assumed the title 'King of France and the French Royal Arms'.\n\nOn 26 January 1340, Edward III formally received homage from Guy, half-brother of the Count of Flanders. The civic authorities of Ghent, Ypres and Bruges proclaimed Edward King of France. Edward's purpose was to strengthen his alliances with the Low Countries. His supporters would be able to claim that they were loyal to the \"true\" King of France and were not rebels against Philip. In February 1340, Edward returned to England to try to raise more funds and also deal with political difficulties.\n\nRelations with Flanders were also tied to the English wool trade, since Flanders' principal cities relied heavily on textile production and England supplied much of the raw material they needed. Edward III had commanded that his chancellor sit on the woolsack in council as a symbol of the pre-eminence of the wool trade. At the time there were about 110,000 sheep in Sussex alone. The great medieval English monasteries produced large surpluses of wool that were sold to mainland Europe. Successive governments were able to make large amounts of money by taxing it. France's sea power led to economic disruptions for England, shrinking the wool trade to Flanders and the wine trade from Gascony.\n\nOn 22 June 1340, Edward and his fleet sailed from England and arrived off the Zwin estuary the next day. The French fleet assumed a defensive formation off the port of Sluis. The English fleet deceived the French into believing they were withdrawing. When the wind turned in the late afternoon, the English attacked with the wind and sun behind them. The French fleet was almost completely destroyed in what became known as the Battle of Sluys. England dominated the English Channel for the rest of the war, preventing French invasions. At this point, Edward's funds ran out and the war probably would have ended were it not for the death of the Duke of Brittany precipitating a succession dispute between the duke's half brother John of Montfort and Charles of Blois, nephew of Philip VI.\n\nIn 1341, conflict over the succession to the Duchy of Brittany began the War of the Breton Succession, in which Edward backed John of Montfort and Philip backed Charles of Blois. Action for the next few years focused around a back and forth struggle in Brittany. The city of Vannes in Brittany changed hands several times, while further campaigns in Gascony met with mixed success for both sides. The English backed Montfort finally succeeded in taking the duchy but not until 1364.\n\nIn July 1346, Edward mounted a major invasion across the channel, landing in Normandy's Cotentin, at St. Vaast. The English army captured the completely unguarded Caen in just one day, surprising the French. Philip mustered a large army to oppose Edward, who chose to march northward toward the Low Countries, pillaging as he went. He reached the river Seine to find most of the crossings destroyed. He moved further and further south, worryingly close to Paris, until he found the crossing at Poissy. This had only been partially destroyed, so the carpenters within his army were able to fix it. He then continued on his way to Flanders until he reached the river Somme. The army crossed at a tidal ford at Blanchetaque, leaving Philip's army stranded. Edward, assisted by this head start, continued on his way to Flanders once more, until, finding himself unable to outmanoeuvre Philip, Edward positioned his forces for battle and Philip's army attacked.\n\nThe Battle of Crécy was a complete disaster for the French, largely credited to the longbowmen and the French king, who allowed his army to attack before it was ready. Philip appealed to his Scottish allies to help with a diversionary attack on England. King David II of Scotland responded by invading northern England, but his army was defeated and he was captured at the Battle of Neville's Cross, on 17 October 1346. This greatly reduced the threat from Scotland. In France, Edward proceeded north unopposed and besieged the city of Calais on the English Channel, capturing it in 1347. This became an important strategic asset for the English, allowing them to safely keep troops in northern France. Calais would remain under English control, even after the end of the Hundred Years' War, until the successful French siege in 1558.\n\nIn 1348, the Black Death, which had just arrived in Paris, began to ravage Europe. In 1355, after the plague had passed and England was able to recover financially, King Edward's son and namesake, the Prince of Wales, later known as the Black Prince, led a Chevauchée from Gascony into France, during which he pillaged Avignonet and Castelnaudary, sacked Carcassonne, and plundered Narbonne. The next year during another Chevauchée he ravaged Auvergne, Limousin, and Berry but failed to take Bourges. He offered terms of peace to King John II of France (known as John the Good), who had outflanked him near Poitiers, but refused to surrender himself as the price of their acceptance. This led to the Battle of Poitiers (19 September 1356) where his army routed the French. During the battle, the Gascon noble Jean de Grailly, captal de Buch led a mounted unit that was concealed in a forest. The French advance was contained, at which point de Grailly led a flanking movement with his horsemen cutting off the French retreat and succeeding in capturing King John and many of his nobles. With John held hostage, his son the Dauphin (later to become Charles V) assumed the powers of the king as regent.\n\nAfter the Battle of Poitiers, many French nobles and mercenaries rampaged, and chaos ruled. A contemporary report recounted:\n\n... all went ill with the kingdom and the State was undone. Thieves and robbers rose up everywhere in the land. The Nobles despised and hated all others and took no thought for usefulness and profit of lord and men. They subjected and despoiled the peasants and the men of the villages. In no wise did they defend their country from its enemies; rather did they trample it underfoot, robbing and pillaging the peasants' goods ...\n\nEdward invaded France, for the third and last time, hoping to capitalise on the discontent and seize the throne. The Dauphin's strategy was that of non-engagement with the English army in the field. However, Edward wanted the crown and chose the cathedral city of Reims for his coronation (Reims was the traditional coronation city). However, the citizens of Reims built and reinforced the city's defences before Edward and his army arrived. Edward besieged the city for five weeks, but the defences held and there was no coronation. Edward moved on to Paris, but retreated after a few skirmishes in the suburbs. Next was the town of Chartres. Disaster struck in a freak hailstorm on the encamped army, causing over 1,000 English deaths – the so-called Black Monday on Easter 1360. This devastated Edward's army and forced him to negotiate when approached by the French. A conference was held at Brétigny that resulted in the Treaty of Brétigny (8 May 1360). The treaty was ratified at Calais in October. In return for increased lands in Aquitaine, Edward renounced Normandy, Touraine, Anjou and Maine and consented to reduce King John's ransom by a million crowns. Edward also abandoned his claim to the crown of France.\n\nThe French king, John II, had been held captive in England. The Treaty of Brétigny set his ransom at 3 million crowns and allowed for hostages to be held in lieu of John. The hostages included two of his sons, several princes and nobles, four inhabitants of Paris, and two citizens from each of the nineteen principal towns of France. While these hostages were held, John returned to France to try and raise funds to pay the ransom. In 1362 John's son Louis of Anjou, a hostage in English-held Calais, escaped captivity. So, with his stand-in hostage gone, John felt honor-bound to return to captivity in England.\n\nThe French crown had been at odds with Navarre (near southern Gascony) since 1354, and in 1363 the Navarrese used the captivity of John II in London and the political weakness of the Dauphin to try to seize power. Although there was no formal treaty, Edward III supported the Navarrese moves, particularly as there was a prospect that he might gain control over the northern and western provinces as a consequence. With this in mind, Edward deliberately slowed the peace negotiations. In 1364, John II died in London, while still in honourable captivity. Charles V succeeded him as king of France. On 7 May 1364, one month after the dauphin's accession and three days before his coronation as Charles V, the Navarrese suffered a crushing defeat at the Battle of Cocherel.\n\nIn 1366 there was a civil war of succession in Castile (part of modern Spain). The forces of the ruler Peter of Castile were pitched against those of his half-brother Henry of Trastámara. The English crown supported Peter; the French supported Henry. French forces were led by Bertrand du Guesclin, a Breton, who rose from relatively humble beginnings to prominence as one of France's war leaders. Charles V provided a force of 12,000, with du Guesclin at their head, to support Trastámara in his invasion of Castile.\n\nPeter appealed to England and Aquitaine's Black Prince for help, but none was forthcoming, forcing Peter into exile in Aquitaine. The Black Prince had previously agreed to support Peter's claims but concerns over the terms of the treaty of Brétigny led him to assist Peter as a representative of Aquitaine, rather than England. He then led an Anglo-Gascon army into Castile. Peter was restored to power after Trastámara's army was defeated at the Battle of Nájera.\n\nAlthough the Castilians had agreed to fund the Black Prince, they failed to do so. The Prince was suffering from ill health and returned with his army to Aquitaine. To pay off debts incurred during the Castile campaign, the prince instituted a hearth tax. Arnaud-Amanieu VIII, Lord of Albret had fought on the Black Prince's side during the war. Albret, who already had become discontented by the influx of English administrators into the enlarged Aquitaine, refused to allow the tax to be collected in his fief. He then joined a group of Gascon lords who appealed to Charles V for support in their refusal to pay the tax. Charles V summoned one Gascon lord and the Black Prince to hear the case in his High Court in Paris. The Black Prince answered that he would go to Paris with sixty thousand men behind him. War broke out again and Edward III resumed the title of King of France. Charles V declared that all the English possessions in France were forfeited, and before the end of 1369 all of Aquitaine was in full revolt.\n\nWith the Black Prince gone from Castile, Henry de Trastámara led a second invasion that ended with Peter's death at the Battle of Montiel in March 1369. The new Castilian regime provided naval support to French campaigns against Aquitaine and England.\n\nIn 1373, the combined Castilian and French fleets sacked the Isle of Wight. In 1377, they burned Rye and Hastings and sacked Lewes, Folkestone, Portsmouth, Dartmouth, and Plymouth. In 1378, the Castilian galleys raided Cornwall, burning coastal towns and levying tribute. The following year the Castilians conquered the Castle of La Roche Guyon on the Breton coast. In July 1380, Fernando Sánchez de Tovar led a Franco-Castilian fleet from La Rochelle in an attack on Jersey and Guernsey, followed by an August raid into the Thames Estuary. The raiders burned Gravesend, while the Londoners watched the flames from a distance.\n\nIn August 1373, John of Gaunt, accompanied by John de Montfort, Duke of Brittany led a force of 9,000 men out from Calais on a major chevauchée. While initially successful as French forces were insufficiently concentrated to oppose them, the English began to meet further resistance as they moved south. French forces began to concentrate around the English force but, under specific orders from King Charles V, the French avoided a set battle. Instead, they fell on forces detached from the main body to raid or forage. The French shadowed the English and in October, the English found themselves being trapped against the River Allier by four separate French forces. With some difficulty, the English crossed at the bridge at Moulins but lost all their baggage and loot. The English carried on south across the Limousin plateau but the weather was turning severe. Men and horses died in great numbers and many soldiers, forced to march on foot, discarded their armour. At the beginning of December, the army finally entered friendly territory in Gascony. By the end of December they were in Bordeaux, starving, ill-equipped and having lost over half of the 30,000 horses with which they had left Calais. Although the march across France had been a remarkable feat, it was a military failure.\n\nWith his health continuing to deteriorate, the Black Prince returned to England in January 1371, whereby now his father Edward III was elderly and also in poor health. The prince's illness was debilitating, and he died on 8 June 1376.\n\nEdward III died the following year on 21 June 1377; he was succeeded by the Black Prince's second son Richard II (the first son had died sometime earlier), who was still a child. The treaty at Brétigny left Edward III and England with enlarged holdings in France; however, a small professional French army under the leadership of du Guesclin pushed the English back and, by the time of Charles V's death in 1380, the English only held Calais and a few other coastal cities.\n\nIt was usual to appoint a regent in the case of a child monarch, but no regent was appointed for Richard II, who nominally exercised the power of kingship from the date of his accession in 1377. However, between 1377 and 1380, actual power was in the hands of a series of councils. The political community preferred this to a regency led by the king's uncle, John of Gaunt, although Gaunt remained highly influential.\n\nRichard faced many challenges during his reign, including the Peasants' Revolt led by Wat Tyler in 1381 and an Anglo-Scottish war in 1384–1385. His attempts to raise taxes to pay for his Scottish adventure and for the protection of Calais against the French made him increasingly unpopular.\n\nIn July 1380, the Earl of Buckingham commanded an expedition to France to aid England's ally, the Duke of Brittany. The French refused battle before the walls of Troyes on 25 August, so Buckingham's forces continued their chevauchée and in November laid siege to Nantes. However, expected support from the Duke of Brittany did not appear and, in the face of heavy losses in both men and horses, was forced to abandon the siege in January 1381. In February 1381, now reconciled to the regime of the new French king Charles VI, Brittany paid 50,000 francs to Buckingham for him to abandon the siege and the campaign.\n\nAfter the deaths of Charles V and du Guesclin in 1380, France lost its main leadership and overall momentum in the war. Charles VI succeeded his father as king of France at the age of 11, and he was thus put under a regency led by his uncles, who managed to maintain an effective grip on government affairs until about 1388, well after Charles had achieved royal majority.\n\nWith France facing widespread destruction, plague, and economic recession, high taxation put a heavy burden on the French peasantry and urban communities. The war effort against England largely depended on royal taxation, but the population was increasingly unwilling to pay for it, as would be demonstrated at the Harelle and Maillotin revolts in 1382. Charles V had abolished many of these taxes on his deathbed, but subsequent attempts to reinstate them stirred up hostility between the French government and populace.\n\nDifficulties in raising taxes and revenue hampered the ability of the French to fight the English. At this point, the war's pace had largely slowed down, and both nations found themselves fighting mainly through proxy wars, such as during the 1383–1385 Portuguese interregnum. The independence party in the Kingdom of Portugal, which was supported by the English, won against the supporters of the King of Castile's claim to the Portuguese throne, who in turn was backed by the French.\n\nThe war became increasingly unpopular with the English public largely due to the high taxes needed to sustain it. These taxes were seen as one of the reasons for the Peasants' revolt. Richard's increasing disinterest in the war together with his preferential treatment of a select few close friends and advisors angered an alliance of lords that included one of his uncles. This group, known as Lords Appellant, managed to successfully press charges of treason against five of Richard's advisors and friends in the Merciless Parliament. The Lords Appellant were able to gain control of the council in 1388 and tried, unsuccessfully, to reignite the war in France. Although the will was there, the funds to pay the troops was lacking, so in the autumn of 1388 the Council agreed to resume negotiations with the French crown, beginning on 18 June 1389 with the signing of a three-year truce at Leulinghem.\n\nIn 1389, Richard's uncle and supporter, John of Gaunt, returned from Spain and Richard was able to rebuild his power gradually until 1397, when he reasserted his authority and destroyed the principal three among the Lords Appellant. In 1399, after John of Gaunt died, Richard II disinherited Gaunt's son, the exiled Henry of Bolingbroke. Bolingbroke returned to England with his supporters and deposed Richard and had himself crowned Henry IV.\n\nIn Scotland, the problems brought in by the English regime change prompted border raids that were countered by an invasion in 1402 and the defeat of a Scottish army at the Battle of Homildon Hill. A dispute over the spoils between Henry and Henry Percy, 1st Earl of Northumberland, resulted in a long and bloody struggle between the two for control of northern England, resolved only with the almost complete destruction of the Percy family by 1408.\n\nIn Wales, Owain Glyndŵr was declared Prince of Wales on 16 September 1400. He was the leader of the most serious and widespread rebellion against English authority in Wales since the conquest of 1282–1283. In 1405, the French allied with Glyndŵr and the Castilians in Spain and a Franco-Welsh army advanced as far as Worcester, while the Spaniards used galleys to raid and burn all the way from Cornwall to Southampton, before taking refuge in Harfleur for the winter. The rebellion was finally put down only in 1415 and resulted in Welsh semi-independence for a number of years.\nIn 1392, Charles VI suddenly descended into madness, forcing France into a regency dominated by his uncles and his brother. An open conflict for control over the Regency began between his uncle Philip the Bold, Duke of Burgundy, and his brother, Louis of Valois, Duke of Orléans. After Philip's death, his son and heir John the Fearless continued the struggle against Louis, but with the disadvantage of having no close personal relation to the king. Finding himself outmaneuvered politically, John ordered the assassination of Louis in retaliation. His involvement in the murder was quickly revealed, and the Armagnac family took political power in opposition to John. By 1410, both sides were bidding for the help of English forces in a civil war. In 1418 Paris was taken by the Burgundians, who were unable to stop the massacre of Count of Armagnac and about 2,500 of his followers by a Parisian mob.\n\nThroughout this period, England confronted repeated raids by pirates that heavily damaged trade and the navy. There is some evidence that Henry IV used state-legalised piracy as a form of warfare in the English Channel. He used such privateering campaigns to pressure enemies without risking open war. The French responded in kind and French pirates, under Scottish protection, raided many English coastal towns.\n\nThe domestic and dynastic difficulties faced by England and France in this period quieted the war for a decade.\n\nHenry IV of England died in 1413 and was replaced by his eldest son Henry V. The mental illness of Charles VI of France allowed his power to be exercised by royal princes whose rivalries caused deep divisions in France. Henry V was well aware of these divisions and hoped to exploit them. In 1414 while he held court at Leicester, he received ambassadors from Burgundy. Henry accredited envoys to the French king to make clear his territorial claims in France; he also demanded the hand of Charles VI's youngest daughter Catherine of Valois. The French rejected his demands, leading Henry to prepare for war.\n\nIn August 1415, Henry V sailed from England with a force of about 10,500 and laid siege to Harfleur. The city resisted for longer than expected, but finally surrendered on 22 September 1415. Because of the unexpected delay, most of the campaign season was gone. Rather than march on Paris directly, Henry elected to make a raiding expedition across France toward English-occupied Calais. In a campaign reminiscent of Crécy, he found himself outmaneuvered and low on supplies and had to fight a much larger French army at the Battle of Agincourt, north of the Somme. Despite the problems and having a smaller force, his victory was near-total; the French defeat was catastrophic, costing the lives of many of the Armagnac leaders. About 40% of the French nobility was killed. Henry was apparently concerned that the large number of prisoners taken were a security risk (there were more French prisoners than there were soldiers in the entire English army) and he ordered their deaths.\n\nHenry retook much of Normandy, including Caen in 1417, and Rouen on 19 January 1419, turning Normandy English for the first time in two centuries. A formal alliance was made with the Duchy of Burgundy, which had taken Paris after the assassination of Duke John the Fearless in 1419. In 1420, Henry met with King Charles VI. They signed the Treaty of Troyes, by which Henry finally married Charles' daughter Catherine of Valois and Henry's heirs would inherit the throne of France. The Dauphin, Charles VII, was declared illegitimate. Henry formally entered Paris later that year and the agreement was ratified by the Estates-General.\n\nOn 22 March 1421 Henry V's progress in his French campaign experienced an unexpected reverse. Henry had left his brother and presumptive heir Thomas, Duke of Clarence in charge while he returned to England. Clarence engaged a Franco-Scottish force of 5000 men, led by Gilbert Motier de La Fayette and John Stewart, Earl of Buchan at the Battle of Baugé. Clarence, against the advice of his lieutenants, before his army had been fully assembled, attacked with a force of no more than 1500 men-at-arms. He then, during the course of the battle, led a charge of a few hundred men into the main body of the Franco-Scottish army, who quickly enveloped the English. In the ensuing melée, the Scot, John Carmichael of Douglasdale, broke his lance unhorsing the Duke of Clarence. Once on the ground, the duke was slain by Alexander Buchanan. The body of the Duke of Clarence was recovered from the field by Thomas Montacute, 4th Earl of Salisbury, who conducted the English retreat.\n\nHenry V returned to France and went to Paris, then visiting Chartres and Gâtinais before returning to Paris. From there, he decided to attack the Dauphin-held town of Meaux. It turned out to be more difficult to overcome than first thought. The siege began about 6 October 1421, and the town held for seven months before finally falling on 11 May 1422.\n\nAt the end of May, Henry was joined by his queen and together with the French court, they went to rest at Senlis. While there, it became apparent that he was ill (possibly dysentery), and when he set out to the Upper Loire, he diverted to the royal castle at Vincennes, near Paris, where he died on 31 August 1422. The elderly and insane Charles VI of France died two months later on 21 October 1422. Henry left an only child, his nine-month-old son, Henry, later to become Henry VI.\n\nOn his deathbed, Henry V had given the Duke of Bedford responsibility for English France (as Henry VI was only an infant). The war in France continued under Bedford's generalship and several battles were won. The English won an emphatic victory at the Battle of Verneuil (17 August 1424). At the Battle of Baugé, Clarence had rushed into battle without the support of his archers. At Verneuil, the archers fought to devastating effect against the Franco-Scottish army. The effect of the battle was to virtually destroy the Dauphin's field army and to eliminate the Scots as a significant military force for the rest of the war.\n\nThe appearance of Joan of Arc at the siege of Orléans sparked a revival of French spirit, and the tide began to turn against the English. The English laid siege to Orléans in 1428, but their force was insufficient to fully invest the city. In 1429 Joan convinced the Dauphin to send her to the siege, saying she had received visions from God telling her to drive out the English. She raised the morale of the troops, and they attacked the English redoubts, forcing the English to lift the siege. Inspired by Joan, the French took several English strongholds on the Loire.\n\nThe English retreated from the Loire Valley, pursued by a French army. Near the village of Patay, French cavalry broke through a unit of English longbowmen that had been sent to block the road, then swept through the retreating English army. The English lost 2,200 men, and the commander, John Talbot, 1st Earl of Shrewsbury, was taken prisoner. This victory opened the way for the Dauphin to march to Reims for his coronation as Charles VII, on 16 July 1429.\n\nAfter the coronation, Charles VII's army fared less well. An attempted French siege of Paris was defeated on 8 September 1429, and Charles VII withdrew to the Loire Valley.\n\nHenry VI was crowned king of England at Westminster Abbey on 5 November 1429 and king of France at Notre-Dame, in Paris, on 16 December 1431.\n\nJoan of Arc was captured by the Burgundians at the siege of Compiègne on 23 May 1430. The Burgundians transferred her to the English, who organised a trial headed by Pierre Cauchon, Bishop of Beauvais and member of the English Council at Rouen. Joan was convicted and burned at the stake on 30 May 1431. (She was rehabilitated 25 years later by Pope Callixtus III.)\n\nAfter the death of Joan of Arc, the fortunes of war turned dramatically against the English. Most of Henry's royal advisers were against making peace. Among the factions, the Duke of Bedford wanted to defend Normandy, the Duke of Gloucester was committed to just Calais, whereas Cardinal Beaufort was inclined to peace. Negotiations stalled. It seems that at the congress of Arras, in the summer of 1435, where the duke of Beaufort was mediator, the English were unrealistic in their demands. A few days after the congress ended in September, Philip III, duke of Burgundy, deserted to Charles VII, signing the Treaty of Arras that returned Paris to the King of France. This was a major blow to English sovereignty in France. The Duke of Bedford died on 14 September 1435 and was later replaced by Richard Plantagenet, 3rd Duke of York.\n\nThe allegiance of Burgundy remained fickle, but the English focus on expanding their domains in the Low Countries left them little energy to intervene in the rest of France. The long truces that marked the war gave Charles time to centralise the French state and reorganise his army and government, replacing his feudal levies with a more modern professional army that could put its superior numbers to good use. A castle that once could only be captured after a prolonged siege would now fall after a few days from cannon bombardment. The French artillery developed a reputation as the best in the world.\n\nBy 1449, the French had retaken Rouen. In 1450 the Count of Clermont and Arthur de Richemont, Earl of Richmond, of the Montfort family (the future Arthur III, Duke of Brittany), caught an English army attempting to relieve Caen and defeated it at the Battle of Formigny. Richemont's force attacked the English army from the flank and rear just as they were on the verge of beating Clermont's army.\n\nAfter Charles VII's successful Normandy campaign in 1450, he concentrated his efforts on Gascony, the last province held by the English. Bordeaux, Gascony's capital, was besieged and surrendered to the French on 30 June 1451. Largely due to the English sympathies of the Gascon people, this was reversed when John Talbot and his army retook the city on 23 October 1452. However, the English were decisively defeated at the Battle of Castillon on 17 July 1453. Talbot had been persuaded to engage the French army at Castillon near Bordeaux. During the battle the French appeared to retreat towards their camp. The French camp at Castillon had been laid out by Charles VII's ordnance officer Jean Bureau and this was instrumental in the French success as when the French cannon opened fire, from their positions in the camp, the English took severe casualties losing both Talbot and his son.\n\nAlthough the Battle of Castillon is considered the last battle of the Hundred Years' War, England and France remained formally at war for another 20 years, but the English were in no position to carry on the war as they faced unrest at home. Following defeat in the Hundred Years' War, English landowners complained vociferously about the financial losses resulting from the loss of their continental holdings; this is often considered a major cause of the Wars of the Roses, that started in 1455.\n\nThe Hundred Years' War almost resumed in 1474, when the duke Charles of Burgundy, counting on English support, took up arms against Louis XI. Louis managed to isolate the Burgundians by buying Edward IV of England off with a large cash sum and an annual pension, in the Treaty of Picquigny (1475). The treaty formally ended the Hundred Years' War with Edward renouncing his claim to the throne of France. However, future Kings of England (and later of Great Britain) continued to claim the title until 1803, when they were dropped in deference to the exiled Count of Provence, titular King Louis XVIII, who was living in England after the French Revolution.\n\nThe French victory marked the end of a long period of instability that had started with the Norman Conquest (1066), when William the Conqueror added \"King of England\" to his titles, becoming both the vassal to (as Duke of Normandy) and the equal of (as king of England) the king of France.\n\nWhen the war ended, England was bereft of its Continental possessions, leaving it with only Calais on the continent. The war destroyed the English dream of a joint monarchy and led to the rejection in England of all things French, but the French language in England, which had served as the language of the ruling classes and commerce there from the time of the Norman conquest, left many vestiges in English vocabulary. English became the official language in 1362 and French was no longer used for teaching from 1385.\n\nNational feeling that emerged from the war unified both France and England further. Despite the devastation on its soil, the Hundred Years' War accelerated the process of transforming France from a feudal monarchy to a centralised state. In England the political and financial troubles which emerged from the defeat were a major cause of the War of the Roses (1455–1487).\nLowe (1997) argued that opposition to the war helped to shape England's early modern political culture. Although anti-war and pro-peace spokesmen generally failed to influence outcomes at the time, they had a long-term impact. England showed decreasing enthusiasm for conflict deemed not in the national interest, yielding only losses in return for high economic burdens. In comparing this English cost-benefit analysis with French attitudes, given that both countries suffered from weak leaders and undisciplined soldiers, Lowe noted that the French understood that warfare was necessary to expel the foreigners occupying their homeland. Furthermore, French kings found alternative ways to finance the war – sales taxes, debasing the coinage – and were less dependent than the English on tax levies passed by national legislatures. English anti-war critics thus had more to work with than the French.\n\nBubonic plague and warfare reduced population numbers throughout Europe during this period. France lost half its population during the Hundred Years' War. Normandy lost three-quarters of its population, and Paris two-thirds. The population of England was reduced by 20 to 33 percent due to plague in the same period.\n\nIn 1445 the first regular standing army in Western Europe since Roman times was organised in France partly as a solution to marauding free companies. The mercenary companies were given a choice of either joining the Royal army as compagnies d'ordonnance on a permanent basis, or being hunted down and destroyed if they refused. France gained a total standing army of around 6,000 men, which was sent out to gradually eliminate the remaining mercenaries who insisted on operating on their own. The new standing army had a more disciplined and professional approach to warfare than its predecessors.\n\nThe Hundred Years' War was a time of rapid military evolution. Weapons, tactics, army structure and the social meaning of war all changed, partly in response to the war's costs, partly through advancement in technology and partly through lessons that warfare taught. The feudal system was slowly disintegrating throughout the hundred years war.\n\nBy the war's end, although the heavy cavalry was still considered the most powerful unit in an army, the heavily armored horse had to deal with several tactics developed to deny or mitigate its effective use on a battlefield. The English began using lightly armoured mounted troops, known as hobelars. Hobelars tactics had been developed against the Scots, in the Anglo-Scottish wars of the 14th century. Hobelars rode smaller unarmoured horses, enabling them to move through difficult or boggy terrain where heavier cavalry would struggle. Rather than fight while seated on the horse, they would dismount to engage the enemy.\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "53852654", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53852654", "title": "Intelsat V F-3", "text": "Intelsat V F-3\n\nIntelsat 503, previously named Intelsat V F-3, was a communications satellite operated by Intelsat. Launched in 1981, it was the third of fifteen Intelsat V satellites to be launched. The Intelsat V series was constructed by Ford Aerospace, based on the Intelsat-V satellite bus.\n\nIntelsat V F-2 was part of an advanced series of satellites designed to provide greater telecommunications capacity for Intelsat's global network. The satellite was deactivated on January 1998.\n\nThe satellite was successfully launched into space on December 15, 1981, at 23:35 UTC, by means of an Atlas SLV-3D Centaur-D1AR vehicle from the Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, United States. It had a launch mass of 1,928 kg. The Intelsat 503 was equipped with 4 Ku-band transponders more 21 C-band transponders for 12,000 audio circuits and 2 TV channels.\n"}
{"id": "33259862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33259862", "title": "Keopsova piramida", "text": "Keopsova piramida\n\nKeopsova piramida is a novel by Slovenian author Emil Filipčič. It was first published in 2005.\n\n"}
{"id": "53255765", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53255765", "title": "Kibua", "text": "Kibua\n\nKibua is a village in North Kivu, Democratic Republic of the Congo. Due to government reorganization in the 1960s, it became home to a core group of people from the Banabenge clan. In 2009, Kibua was \"one of the main military bases\" of the Democratic Forces for the Liberation of Rwanda (FDLR), according to Human Rights Watch. By 2010, MONUSCO had a team based in Kibua.\n"}
{"id": "15079805", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15079805", "title": "Liechtensteiner Volksblatt", "text": "Liechtensteiner Volksblatt\n\nThe Liechtensteiner Volksblatt is the older of the two daily newspapers in Liechtenstein. It is published by the Liechtensteiner Volksblatt AG, and as of 2015, had a circulation of 9,000 copies. The Thursday edition is distributed as a large print run, with an estimated circulation of 21,000 copies. The editorial office is located in Schaan.\n\nThe newspaper was first published on 16 August 1878 as the \"Press Association Liechtensteiner Volksblatt\". The Royal Chaplain Johann Fetz was the founder and first editor, serving in that capacity until 1884. Up until 1918, it was published as a weekly newspaper, until it began printing twice weekly until 1919. The company gradually increased its rate of publication, from three editions per week starting in 1927, expanding to four in 1962, and then five times a week in 1978. Since January 1985, the paper has printed every day, except Sunday.\n\nThe Oberland newspaper is generally considered to have a conservative outlook, and regularly agrees with the positions of the reigning Prince of Liechtenstein, and the Progressive Citizens' Party. Since September 2006, the paper has been published by \"Liechtensteiner Volksblatt AG\", a private publishing house which emerged from the former Press Club. In October 2006, the Vorarlberg media entrepreneur Eugen Russ (Vorarlberger Medienhaus The majority shares are still in possession of the Royal Family of Liechtenstein.\n\nThe \"Liechtensteiner Volksblatt\" is financed through subscriptions and the sale of advertisements. The newspaper is published in the German language, and is primarily covers current affairs in Liechtenstein, though also providing some coverage of Switzerland and Austria.\n\nThe \"Liechtensteiner Volksblatt\" is usually organised into eight sections:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32121547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32121547", "title": "Liis Lemsalu", "text": "Liis Lemsalu\n\nLiis Lemsalu (born October 20, 1992 in Pärnu, Estonia) is an Estonian singer. \nLemsalu rose to fame as the winner of the fourth season of \"Eesti otsib superstaari\", the Estonian version of Idol series. After winning, Liis went on tour with other participants of \"Eesti otsib superstaari\" and released a single \"Kõnnime seda teed\" together with the runner-up of the show, Artjom Savitski. She was then signed to Universal Music Group. She has featured in Eesti Laul, Estonia's selection for the Eurovision Song Contest four times, missing out on the final twice and qualifying twice. Her best entry, Made Up My Mind, came 5th out of 10 in 2012. She has released successful songs of which many have over 100k views on streaming service YouTube. Her most popular song on the site \"Sinu Ees\" (\"In Front Of You\" in English) had 2.1 million views as of 2017 which is double the population of her home country, Estonia.\n\n\n\nLemsalu studied at the Tallinn Nõmme Gymnasium. She is a daughter of a former professional football player Marek Lemsalu.\n"}
{"id": "43995757", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43995757", "title": "List of cities in ASEAN by population", "text": "List of cities in ASEAN by population\n\nThis is a list of cities in Association of Southeast Asian Nations (ASEAN).\n\nThis list features the most populous cities in ASEAN. Population figures were taken from within the city proper only. See the article on each city for sources. Myanmar data is the least reliable and subject to revision. It is important to note, that the general area of Metro Manila has been divided into its political cities and is not counted as one urban city in this ranking. Therefore the metropolis' true population is not reflected in this ranking (it would otherwise be first or second in population size, depending on the definition of Jakarta's true city area).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15412147", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15412147", "title": "List of supermarket chains in Africa", "text": "List of supermarket chains in Africa\n\nThis is a list of supermarket chains in Africa.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35185522", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35185522", "title": "MR8 road", "text": "MR8 road\n\nThe MR8 road is a major highway of Swaziland. Along with the MR3 and MR7 roads it is considered to form the \"backbone of Swaziland's internal transport system.\" It connects the MR3 road east of Manzini at with Lavumisa/Golela at . It passes through the Mkhaya Game Reserve.\n"}
{"id": "54123583", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54123583", "title": "Marisat 3", "text": "Marisat 3\n\nMarisat 3 (or Marisat F3) is a communications satellite operated by COMSAT. Marisat 3 was the second of a series of COMSAT maritime communications satellites.\n\nThe satellite was operated at orbital position of 176 degrees east from 1976 to 1991. It was transferred to 182° E (178° W) and operated there until 1996. It was transferred to 326.1° E (33.9° W), Over the Atlantic Ocean, and since 1999 has been providing a broadband data link to the US National Antarctic Foundation in Antarctica at the South Pole's Amundsen-Scott research station. The same was transferred to Intelsat in 2004. On Wednesday, October 29, 2008, after 32 years of service, the longest for any commercial satellite to date, was removed from active service. Intelsat engineers used the remaining fuel on board to raise the orbit about 125 miles (200 km) above the geostationary arc and put it into an array orbit.\n\nMarisat 3 was launched by a Delta rocket from Cape Canaveral Air Force Station, Florida, at 22:44 UTC on October 14, 1976.\n\n"}
{"id": "372466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=372466", "title": "Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions", "text": "Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions\n\nThe Norwegian Confederation of Trade Unions (, LO) is a national trade union center, decidedly the largest and probably the most influential umbrella organization of labour unions in Norway. The 21 national unions affiliated to the LO have almost 900,000 members of a Norwegian population of 5 million. The majority of affiliated unions organizes traditional blue collar workers, but the largest affiliate is the Norwegian Union of Municipal and General Employees which makes up more than a third of all members. LO is affiliated to the ITUC and the ETUC. Gerd Kristiansen was elected leader on 6 May 2013 for a four-year period.\n\nIt was named the Workers' National Trade Union (, AFL) from 1899 to 1957.\n\nIngvald B. Aase served as treasurer from 1934 until his death in 1948.\n\nThe organization owns the Norwegian Labour Movement Archives and Library.\n\nIt is considered as being part of the \"Labour Sphere\" in Norway.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22248531", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22248531", "title": "Osimira", "text": "Osimira\n\nOsimira - Belarusian musical ethno-project\n\nsince 2002\n\n\n\n[OSIMIRA \"DRUVA\" (2007, RAR-arhive)|http://music.osimira.net/osimiradruva.rar] \n[OSIMIRA \"PROSHCHA\" (2006, RAR-arhive)|http://music.osimira.net/osimiraproshcha.rar] \n"}
{"id": "53793518", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53793518", "title": "Osmose (Cambodia)", "text": "Osmose (Cambodia)\n\nOsmose is a conservation organization in Cambodia.\n\nThey are active against the invasive water hyacinth and support conservation of waterfowl.\n\n"}
{"id": "36625533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36625533", "title": "Radio Choklate", "text": "Radio Choklate\n\nRadio Choklate 104 FM is Odisha’s no.1 radio channel launched and is a part of the Sambad Group (Eastern Media Limited). Radio Choklate provides service in Odisha, predominantly in the regional Odia language along with Hindi and English. It airs Odia and Hindi music, covers local news, popular trends and stories that cater to the human interest. It is part of Soumya Ranjan Patnaik's Eastern Media Limited holdings.\n\nThe station was launched on 4 May 2007. In 2017 the station hosted the Choklate Awards show.\n\nRadio Choklate is broadcast from Cuttack and Rourkela stations in Odisha at 104 FM frequency and live streamed via Radio Choklate Online (www.radiochoklateonline.com).\n\nDaily shows are listed below:\n\n1. Stotra: Early morning show consisting of shlokas, aired at 4 am \n\n2. Punya Ra Nadi Tire: Devotional show presented by RJ Arjya, aired at 5 am\n\n3. Sakaala Ra Pahili Gaadi Re: Morning show hosted by RJ Komal that gives out updates on weather, fashion, special occsions, festivals, traffic, etc, aired at 7 am\n\n4. Baata Chaada, Anil Aasuchi: Mid-morning show anchored by RJ Anil that includes chit-chat with people from various walks of life, aired at 10 am\n\n5. Diary of a Housewife: Monologue of a housewife, aired at 12 noon\n\n6. Sei Jhuma Jhuma Golaapi Bela Re: Anecdotes, stories, history, trivia of Ollywood and sometimes, Bollywood presented by RJ Niel, aired at 1 pm\n\n7. Tuma Paeen Gita Tiye: Listeners request RJ Nivy to play their songs, aired at 3 pm\n\n8. Choklate Countdown: RJs Komal & Anil present the latest Bollywood updates of the day, aired at 5 pm\n\n9. Choklate 20-20: RJ Nadeem presents top 20 songs of the day along with some trending informations of the day, aired at 8 pm\n\n10. Prema Ra Formula: All about love and relationships with RJ Sangram, aired at 10 pm\n\n11. Sahara Ra Bati Sabu Libhi Gala Pare: RJ Niel talks to listeners over phone, to interact with them on light topics, aired at 1 am\nWeekend special shows are as follows:\n\n1. Kalamandir Geetmala: Aired every Fridat at 8 pm\n\n2. Mu Tate Bhala Paaye Ete: Love stories of celebrities from Bollywood and sometimes Ollywood as narrated by RJ Sangram, aired every Saturday 11 pm\n\n3. Bhaya: Horror show, aired every Saturday and Sunday at 10 pm\n\n4. Asaadhaarana: Talk show hosted by RJ Sangram, in conversation with individuals with an indomitable spirit, aired every Sunday at 8 am\n\n5. Baabuna: Aired every Sunday at 3 pm\n\n6. Rangamancha: Enactments and plays on various social issues, aired every Sunday at 9 pm\n\n7. Eyi Maati Ra Itihaasa: A show based on Strories of Odia Warriors, who fought for an independent odisha.\n\nRadio Choklate released a music video for Holi celebrations.\n\n"}
{"id": "2419859", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2419859", "title": "Rally for the People of Burundi", "text": "Rally for the People of Burundi\n\nThe Rally for the People of Burundi () is a political party in Burundi. It was headed by Ernest Kabushemeye, until his assassination in 1995, since when Balthazar Bigirimana has been party leader.\n\nThe RPB was registered on 12 August 1992. It supported victorious candidate Melchior Ndadaye of the Front for Democracy in Burundi in the 1993 presidential elections. In the 1993 parliamentary elections it received 1.7% of the vote, failing to win a seat.\n"}
{"id": "36591649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36591649", "title": "Religion in Liechtenstein", "text": "Religion in Liechtenstein\n\nThe religion in Liechtenstein is predominantly Catholic, with a minority of Protestants, non-adherents, and adherents of other religions. Liechtenstein has a small Muslim population, composed mainly of immigrants from countries like Bosnia and Herzegovina, Serbia, and Turkey.\n\nLiechtenstein is a small, landlocked country located in the Alpine region of Europe. As of 2002, 83.9% of Liechtenstein's population is Christian. In terms of religious demographics, 76% follow Catholicism, 7% follow Protestant Christianity, 4.2% follow Islam, 0.8% follow Orthodox Christianity, and 12% are either nonreligious or adherents of other faiths. In Liechtenstein, 44% of Muslims, 23% of Catholic Christians, and 24% of non-Catholic Christians regularly participate in weekly religious services.\n\nThe Catholic Church, as written in the Constitution of Liechtenstein, is the official state religion of Liechtenstein. The constitution declares that the Catholic Church is \"the State Church and as such shall enjoy the full protection of the State.\" Liechtenstein offers protection to adherents of all religious beliefs, and considers the \"religious interests of the people\" a priority of the government. In Liechtenstein schools, although exceptions are allowed, religious education in Catholicism or Protestantism is legally required. Tax exemption is granted by the government to religious organizations. According to the Pew Research Center, social conflict caused by religious hostilities is ranked low in Liechtenstein, and so is the amount of government restriction on the practice of religion.\n\nBefore 1997, within the Catholic church, the principality was part of the Swiss Diocese of Chur. Reforms aimed at diminishing the influence of the Catholic Church on Liechtenstein's government have been supported by Prince Hans-Adam II.\n\n"}
{"id": "18211917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18211917", "title": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Dali", "text": "Roman Catholic Diocese of Dali\n\nThe Roman Catholic Diocese of Dali/Tali (, ) is a diocese located in the city of Dali in the Ecclesiastical province of Kunming in China.\n\nIn 2000, the Vatican appointed Lawrence Zhang Wen-Chang as Apostolic Administrator of Dali. He served until his death in 2012.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9338452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338452", "title": "Rucensi", "text": "Rucensi\n\nThe Rucensi were an ancient people of Sardinia, noted by Ptolemy (III, 3). They dwelt south of the Æchilenenses (also called Cornenses) and north of the Celsitani and the Corpicenses.\n\n"}
{"id": "9338517", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9338517", "title": "Siculensi", "text": "Siculensi\n\nThe Siculensi were an ancient people of Sardinia, noted by Ptolemy (III, 3). They dwelt south of the Celsitani and the Corpicenses and north of the Neapolitani and the Valentini.\n\n"}
{"id": "679644", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=679644", "title": "Snooker world rankings 1980/1981", "text": "Snooker world rankings 1980/1981\n\nThe professional snooker world rankings for the top 27 snooker players in the 1980/1981 season are listed below.\n"}
{"id": "33495720", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33495720", "title": "Tamer Wa Shaw'eyyah", "text": "Tamer Wa Shaw'eyyah\n\nTamer Wa Shaw'eyyah () is an Egyptian sitcom acted by Ahmed El-Fishawy and May Kassab.\n\nThe screenplay was written by: Amr Samir Atef - Twitter Alasfory - Ayman Ahmed Khalaf\n\nDirected by: Osama Al Abd\n\n"}
{"id": "50220108", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50220108", "title": "The Boxers (sculpture)", "text": "The Boxers (sculpture)\n\nThe Boxers is an outdoor 1987 steel and lacquer sculpture by Keith Haring, installed in Berlin, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "13991988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13991988", "title": "The Gourishankar", "text": "The Gourishankar\n\nThe Gourishankar is a progressive rock band from Russia formed in 2001 by university friends guitarist Alexandr \"Nomy\" Agranovich ( Agranson) and keyboardist Doran Usher in the Russian provincial city Syktyvkar.\n\nIn 2002 the band released their debut demo tape \"Integral Symphony\" followed in 2003 by their first studio album, \"Close Grip\". Their second studio album \"2nd Hands\", was recorded in 2006 and was released by Unicorn Digital on March 15, 2007. The album revealed their unique style of music, which blends many musical genres. \"2nd Hands\" was nominated for the Prog Awards 2007 within \"Best Foreign Band\" section , nominated for best debut of the year at Deutsche progressive pages and took second place. The album became the best-selling release in 2007 on the label Unicorn Digital.\n\"Close Grip\" was rereleased by Unicorn Digital in 2008.\n\nIn 2015, the jazz label ArtBeat Music was all deluxe editions heritage group called the \"1st Decade\", including rare recordings and demo tapes, as an anthology. It was also released edition classic album \"2nd Hands\" on vinyl.\n\nThe third studio album \"The World Unreal\" was released at Russia on January 14, 2016 through ArtBeat Music.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56233329", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56233329", "title": "The Open Door (Latifa al-Zayyat novel)", "text": "The Open Door (Latifa al-Zayyat novel)\n\nThe Open Door (El bab el maftuh) is a 1960 novel by Egyptian writer Latifa al-Zayyat. It won the inaugural Naguib Mahfouz Medal for Literature. The novel, written in colloquial Egyptian Arabic explores a middle-class Egyptian girl's coming of age, against the background of the growing Egyptian nationalist movement before the 1952 Egypt revolution. The book was made into a 1963 Egyptian film directed by Henry Barakat with Faten Hamama, Mahmoud Moursy, and Saleh Selim.\n"}
{"id": "24902386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24902386", "title": "Turks in Europe", "text": "Turks in Europe\n\nThe Turks in Europe (sometimes called Euro-Turks; or \"Avrupa Türkleri\") refers to ethnic Turks living in Europe. Most Turks in Europe live in European Turkey, but there is also a sizeable Turkish diaspora in countries such as Germany. This diaspora includes two groups: guest workers who migrated to western Europe in recent decades, and historic Turkish minorities in southeastern Europe who trace their origin back to the Ottoman era.\n\nTurks have had a long history in Europe dating back to the Ottoman era when they began to conquer and migrate to Eastern Europe during the Ottoman conquests (see the Ottoman territories in Europe) which, other than Turkey, created significant Turkish communities in Bulgaria (Bulgarian Turks), Bosnia and Herzegovina (Bosnian Turks), Cyprus (Turkish Cypriots), Georgia (Meskhetian Turks), Greece (Cretan Turks, Dodecanese Turks, and Western Thrace Turks), Kosovo (Kosovan Turks), Serbia (Turks in Serbia), the Republic of Macedonia (Macedonian Turks), and Romania (Romanian Turks).\n\nModern immigration of Turks to Western Europe began with Turkish Cypriots migrating to the United Kingdom in the early 1920s when the British Empire annexed Cyprus in 1914 and the residents of Cyprus became subjects of the Crown. However, Turkish Cypriot migration increased significantly in the 1940s and 1950s due to the Cyprus conflict. Conversely, in 1944, Turks who were forcefully deported from Meskheti in Georgia during the Second World War, known as the Meskhetian Turks, settled in Eastern Europe (especially in Azerbaijan, Kazakhstan, Russia, and Ukraine). By the early 1960s, migration to Western and Northern Europe increased significantly from Turkey when Turkish \"guest workers\" arrived under a \"Labour Export Agreement\" with Germany in 1961, followed by a similar agreement with the Netherlands, Belgium and Austria in 1964; France in 1965; and Sweden in 1967. More recently, Bulgarian Turks, Romanian Turks, and Western Thrace Turks have also migrated to Western Europe.\n\nDuring the rule of the Ottoman Empire (1299-1923), Turkish settlers began to move into the Ottoman territories in Europe as part of the Turkish expansion, because these Turkish communities migrated to these countries during the Ottoman rule, they are not considered part of the modern Turkish diaspora. However, these populations, which have different nationalities, still share the same ethnic, linguistic, cultural and religious origins as today's Turkish nationals.\n\nThe conquest of the Balkans by the Ottomans set in motion important population movements of Turks brought over from Anatolia and Asia Minor, establishing a firm Turkish base for further conquests in Europe. Thus, the Ottomans used colonization as a very effective method to consolidate their position and power in the Balkans. The colonizers that were brought to the Balkans consisted of soldiers, nomads, farmers, artisans and merchants, dervishes, preachers and other religious functionaries, and administrative personnel. Densely populated Turkish colonies were established in the frontier regions of Thrace, the Maritsa and the Tundzha valleys. In addition to voluntary migrations, throughout the fourteenth, fifteenth, and sixteenth centuries, the Ottoman authorities also used mass deportations (\"sürgün\") as a method of control over potentially rebellious individuals. One of the greatest impacts of the Ottoman colonization process of the Balkans was felt in the urban centres, many towns became major centres for Turkish control and administration, with most Christians gradually withdrawing to the mountains. The Ottomans embarked on creating new towns and repopulating older towns that had suffered significant population decline and economic dislocation during the wars preceding the Ottoman conquests. Major Balkan towns, especially those on or near transportation and communication routes, were the focal point of Ottoman colonization in the Balkans. Most urban centres in the Balkans, especially in Thrace, Macedonia, Thessaly, and Moesia, achieved Muslim/Turkish majorities or substantial minorities soon after the completion of the conquest and remained overwhelmingly Muslim in composition into the eighteenth century, and in some areas such as Macedonia and Bulgaria well into the nineteenth century. However, in the course of the nineteenth and twentieth centuries, many Turks were displaced, most of them fleeing to Anatolia. At present, there are still significant Turkish minorities living in Bulgaria, the province of East Macedonia and Thrace in Northern Greece, Kosovo, the Republic of Macedonia, and Romania.\n\nThe Meskhetian Turks, also known as Ahiska Turks, are the descendants of Turkish colonizers who reside, or used to reside, in Meskheti which is in the southwestern region of Georgia. The region came under Ottoman rule in the sixteenth century up until 1829. Today, approximately 600 to 1,000 Meskhetian Turks are still living in Georgia, the population drastically decreased in 1944 when Joseph Stalin deported approximately 100,000 of these Turks to Central Asia.\n\nThe Ottoman Turks conquered Cyprus in 1571 when they began a campaign which led to the fall of Nicosia in September 1570 and of Famagusta in August 1571. By 1571, about 30,000 Turkish settlers, which included soldiers who were involved in the conquest and their families, or agricultural colonizers, particularly from the Konya region, were given land on the island. Additionally, many of the islanders converted to Islam during the early years of Ottoman rule due significant advantages to being Christian (i.e. taxation). Thus, a strong Turkish element was formed in Cyprus’s population, which was later reinforced by immigration from Asia Minor.\n\nAs early as the 13th century Turkic slaves (Oghuz and Kipchak Mameluks), from Central Asia and the Pontic Steppe, had been sold to northern Italian city states by Arab traders. Some of the slaves were bought free and mixed in with the local Italian population. At least from the 16th century onwards Ottoman traders settled in western European trading capitols such as Antwerp, Amsterdam and London. Turkish traders in the Netherlands had at least two mosques in Amsterdam in the early 17th century.\n\nAccording to an estimate in the European Union there are 3,7 million ethnic Turks.\n\nTurkish Cypriots started to immigrate from Cyprus to the United Kingdom in the early 1920s when the British Empire annexed Cyprus in 1914 and the residents of Cyprus became subjects of the Crown. Many Turkish Cypriots went to the United Kingdom as students and tourists whilst others left the island due to the harsh economic and political life during the British Colony of Cyprus. Emigration to the United Kingdom continued to increase when the Great Depression of 1929 brought economic depression to Cyprus, with unemployment and low wages being a significant issue. During the Second World War, the number of Turkish run businesses increased which created a demand for more Turkish Cypriot workers. Thus, throughout the 1950s, Turkish Cypriots emigrated to the United Kingdom for economic reasons and by 1958 the number of Turkish Cypriots was estimated to be 8,500. Their numbers increased each year as rumours about immigration restrictions appeared in much of the Cypriot media.\nFurthermore, the 1950s saw the arrival of many more Turkish Cypriots to the United Kingdom who felt vulnerable as they had cause for concern about the political future of the island. This was first evident when the Greek Cypriots held a referendum in 1950 in which 95.7% of eligible Greek Cypriot voters cast their ballots in supporting a fight aimed at uniting Cyprus with Greece. Hence, Turkish Cypriots fled to the United Kingdom due to the EOKA terrorists and its aim of Enosis. By the 1960s, inter-ethnic fighting broke out and by 1964 some 25,000 Turkish Cypriots became internally displaced, accounting to about a fifth of their population; furthermore, approximately 60,000 Turkish Cypriots were forcefully moved into Turkish Cypriot enclaves within Cyprus. This period in Cypriot history resulted in an exodus of more Turkish Cypriots to the United Kingdom. Other reasons for the continued migration to the United Kingdom was because of the economic gap which was widening in Cyprus. The Greek Cypriots were increasingly taking control of the country’s major institutions causing the Turkish Cypriots to become economically disadvantaged. Thus, the political and economic unrest in Cyprus after 1964 sharply increased the number of Turkish Cypriot immigrants to the United Kingdom. Many of these early migrants worked in the clothing industry in London, where both men and women could work together- sewing was a skill which the community had already acquired in Cyprus. Turkish Cypriots were concentrated mainly in the north-east of London and specialised in the heavy-wear sector, such as coats and tailored garments. This sector offered work opportunities where poor knowledge of the English language was not a problem and where self-employment was a possibility.\n\nOnce the Greek military junta rose to power in 1967, Greece staged a coup d'état in 1974 against the Cypriot President, with the help of EOKA B, to unite the island with Greece. This led to a military offensive by Turkey who invaded the island. By 1983, the Turkish Cypriots declared their own state, the Turkish Republic of Northern Cyprus (TRNC), which has since remained internationally unrecognised except by Turkey. The division of the island led to an economic embargo against the Turkish Cypriots by the Greek Cypriot controlled Government of Cyprus. This had the effect of depriving the Turkish Cypriots of foreign investment, aid and export markets; thus, it caused the Turkish Cypriot economy to remain stagnant and undeveloped. Due to these economic and political issues, an estimated 130,000 Turkish Cypriots have emigrated from Northern Cyprus since its establishment to the United Kingdom. In 2011, the House of Commons, Home Affairs Committee suggested that there are now about 300,000 Turkish Cypriots living in the UK.\n\nThe Meskhetian Turks, originally living in Meskheti (now known as Samtskhe-Javakheti) which is a part of southern Georgia, are widely dispersed throughout the former Soviet Union (150,000 live in Kazakhstan, 90,000-110,000 in Azerbaijan, 70,000-90,000 in Russia, 50,000 in Kyrgyzstan, 15,000 in Uzbekistan and 10,000 in Ukraine) as a result of forced deportations and discrimination which began in 1944. During World War II, the Soviet Union was preparing to launch a pressure campaign against Turkey and Vyacheslav Molotov, then Minister of Foreign Affairs, formally presented a demand to the Turkish Ambassador in Moscow for the surrender of three Anatolian provinces (Kars, Ardahan and Artvin); thus, war against Turkey seemed possible, and Joseph Stalin wanted to clear the strategic Turkish population (especially those situated in Meskheti) located near the Turkish-Georgian border which were likely to be hostile to Soviet intentions.\n\nIn 1944, the Meskhetian Turks were forcefully deported from Meskheti in Georgia and accused of smuggling, banditry and espionage in collaboration with their kin across the Turkish border. Nationalistic policies at the time encouraged the slogan: \"Georgia for Georgians\" and that the Meskhetian Turks should be sent to Turkey \"where they belong\". Joseph Stalin deported the Meskhetian Turks to Central Asia (especially to Uzbekistan and Kazakhstan), thousands dying en route in cattle-trucks, and were not permitted by the Georgian government of Zviad Gamsakhurdia to return to their homeland.\n\nIn the late 1970s, the Stavropol and Krasnodar authorities in Russia visited various regions of Uzbekistan to invite and recruit Meskhetian Turks to work in agriculture enterprises in southern Russia. By 1985, Moscow issued a proposal inviting more Meskhetian Turks to move to villages in southern Russia that had been abandoned by ethnic Russians who were moving to the cities. However, the Meskhetian Turks response was that they would only leave Uzbekistan if the move were to be to their homeland. Then, in 1989, ethnic Uzbeks began a series of actions against the Turks, they became the victims of riots in the Ferghana valley which led to over a hundred deaths. Within days, Decision 503 was announced \"inviting\" the Turks to occupy the empty farms in southern Russia that they had resisted moving to for years and around 17,000 Meskhetian Turks were evacuated to Russia. Meskhetian Turks maintain that Moscow had planned the Uzbek riots. By the early 1990s, of the 70,000 Meskhetian Turks who were still resident in Uzbekistan, approximately 50,000 Meskhetian Turkish refugees went to Azerbaijan due to continued discrimination whilst others went to Russia and Ukraine due to fears of continued violence.\n\nThe concept of the Gastarbeiter involved the agreements between the host country and Turkey which was bound up with policies of the governments involved, with state bureaucracies on both sides ultimately responsible for the dispatch and settlement of the workers. Subsequently, labor agreements were signed with several European countries- with Germany in 1961; with Austria, Belgium, and the Netherlands in 1964; with France in 1965; and with Sweden in 1967. The agreements were based on a principle of rotation, and a worker was expected to return home after a year of employment abroad. However, employers wanted to retain workers who had become accustomed to the work; therefore, the rotation principle never became practice. Workers were not permitted to take their families abroad with them, and were housed in group living quarters or dormitories known as \"Heim\".\n\nBy the early 1970s, the majority of Turkish emigration to Western Europe was for the purpose of family reunification. Furthermore, by the 1990s, migration mainly by way of marriage continued to be one of the principal reasons for settling in Western Europe.\n\nAbout 25,000 to 40,000 Turks of Western Thrace, who are the ethnic Turks who live in the north-eastern part of Greece, have emigrated to Western Europe. Between 12,000 and 25,000 moved to Germany in the 1960s and 1970s, when the Thracian tobacco industry was affected by a severe crisis and many tobacco growers lost their income. After Germany, the Netherlands is the most popular destination for Western Thrace Turks, especially in the region of Randstad. There is also an estimated 600-700 Western Thrace Turks living in London, although the total number living outside London is unknown.\n\nAccording to the National Statistical Institute of Bulgaria, Bulgarian Turks make up 12% of short term migrants, 13% of long term migrants, and 12% of the labour migrants. However, it is unlikely that this generalisation shows a true indication of the ethnic make-up of Bulgarian citizens living abroad because Bulgarian citizens of Turkish origin make up entire majorities in some countries. For example, out of the 10,000 to 30,000 people from Bulgaria living in the Netherlands, the majority, of about 80%, are ethnic Turks from Bulgaria who have come from the south-eastern Bulgarian district of Kurdzhali. Moreover, the Bulgarian Turks are the fastest-growing group of immigrants in the Netherlands. There is also about 30,000 Bulgarian Turks living in Sweden, a growing community in the United Kingdom and Germany, and 1,000 in Austria.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51125674", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51125674", "title": "Yamal 102", "text": "Yamal 102\n\nYamal 102 (Russian: ) was a geostationary communications satellite operated by Gazkom and built by RSC Energia. It was, along with Yamal 101 the first communications satellite of the Yamal program and the first iteration of the USP Bus. It was a satellite with 2200W of power (1300W available for the payload) on an unpressurized bus. It had eight SPT-70 electric thrusters by OKB Fakel for station keeping. Its payload was 12 C band equivalent transponders supplied by Space Systems Loral.\n\nIt was launched along Yamal 101 September 6, 1999 at 16:36 UTC from Baikonur Site 81/23 by a Proton-K/Blok-DM-2M directly to GEO. While its twin Yamal 101 failed, Yamal 102 successfully deployed and was commissioned into service. On August 9, 2010 it was decommissioned and sent to a graveyard orbit. The satellite lasted 4079 days (11 years 2 months), a bit short of the design life of 12.5 years.\n\nRight after solar panel deployment Yamal 101 failure irreparably. Thus, Gazkom registered Yamal 102 as Yamal 101. This has caused significant confusion but the records are clear that the satellite that failed was, in fact, the original Yamal 101.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6692714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6692714", "title": "Češnovka", "text": "Češnovka\n\nČešnjovka(TSCHESH-nyov-kah) is a Croatian spicy pork sausage, with a harmonious garlic taste from Turopolje.\n"}
