{"id": "2417771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2417771", "title": "1955 in comics", "text": "1955 in comics\n\nThis is a list of comics-related events in 1955.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36459831", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36459831", "title": "Aberrant decoding", "text": "Aberrant decoding\n\nAberrant decoding or aberrant reading is a concept used in fields such as communication and media studies, semiotics, and journalism about how messages can be interpreted differently from what was intended by their sender. The concept was proposed by Umberto Eco in an article published first in 1965 in Italian and in 1972 in English.\n\nEvery communication act requires that the messages must be encoded into a set of signs by the sender. These signs must then be transmitted and decoded by the receiver to understand the contained messages. The code system must be shared by both the sender and the receiver in order for the communication to succeed. For example, thoughts must be encoded into words, transmitted through air, and then be decoded back to thoughts. Often the sender has a certain meaning to convey with his message, hoping the receiver will interpret it correctly. This right interpretation can be called the \"preferred decoding\" or \"preferred reading\". When the interpretation of the message is different from what was intended, this can be called \"aberrant decoding\". Aberrant decodings can occur in a more widespread range of situations, as wrong interpretation of a media product or text whose incoming message is not the one intended by the creator of the product or text.\n\nAccording to Eco, aberrant decodings were rare in pre-industrial societies, when most communication occurred between people who shared the same culture. He lists four classes of exceptions where aberrant decodings could have happened:\n\nEco continues that in contemporary media, instead of being exceptions, aberrant decodings have become the norm. For example, TV broadcasters know beforehand that their messages will be interpreted in various ways. He speculated that because of this freedom of interpretation, the power of media over individuals might be much less influential than is thought.\n\nThis idea of examining the messages contained in the media and how the audience interprets them has since become one of the core concepts of academic media research. Eco's article influenced, among others, Stuart Hall's encoding/decoding theory.\n\nJohn Fiske has argued that aberrant decoding occurs mainly with iconic codes, referring to visual messages. As an example, he explains how prehistoric cave paintings of animals are often seen as graceful and moving. However, in 1960 Margaret Abercrombie claimed that the paintings are, in fact, depictions of dead animals. Thus if we accept Abercrombie's claim, we can argue that our modern culture, where we value living animals and only rarely encounter dead ones, has led us to aberrant decoding of the paintings.\n\n"}
{"id": "12666154", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666154", "title": "Acey Deucey (card game)", "text": "Acey Deucey (card game)\n\nAcey Deucey, also known as In-Between, Sheets or Maverick, is a simple card game that involves betting.\n\nBefore the action, each player must add their ante into the pot. Two cards are then dealt face-up to one player. That player then bets from nothing to the amount that is in the pot at the time whether or not the third card will numerically fall in between the first two. If the third card falls in between the two other cards, the bettor takes the amount he bet out of the pot; if the third card falls outside of the two other cards, the bettor must add what he bet to the pot; and if the third card matches the numerical value of one of the other two cards, the bettor must add to the pot double what they bet. If two cards of the same value come up, e.g. 2,2 the bettor picks if the next card will be higher or lower and bets. If the next card is the same as the last two, i.e. a 2, the bettor must triple their bet. \n\nThe rules and specifics of the game often vary from region to region. For example in Liaoning province, northeast China the minimum number of players is 4 and each player is required to ante before the first card is turned. Two cards are then dealt face-up to one player. That player then bets from nothing to the amount that is in the pot at the time (during the first time around the table players are only allowed to bet up to half of the pot) whether or not the third card will numerically fall in between the first two. Other regions, such as in the United States, play the game by combining two decks of cards. This adds another dynamic to the game due to the extra number of similar type cards. Beyond that, most of the other rules followed by United States players are similar to those which are observed in the Liaoning province.\n\nJust about all regions play if the third card falls in between the two other cards, the bettor takes the amount he bet out of the pot; if the third card falls outside of the two other cards, the bettor must add what he bet to the pot; and if the third card matches the numerical value of one of the other two cards, this is referred to as a \"Post\" and the bettor must add to the pot double his initial bet. If two cards of the same value come up, e.g. 2,2 the bettor picks if the next card will be higher or lower and bets. If the next card is the same as the last two, i.e. a 2, this is considered a \"Post\" and the player is required to pay triple the bet for the hand.\n\nIn addition to this, there is a special rule for Aces. If the first card turned is an Ace the player may choose its value as either the high Ace or the low one. Low Ace is always lower than any other card, including the deuce. If an Ace comes up as the second card turned it is always considered the high Ace. If a player \"Posts\" on an Ace they are required to pay four times their bet for that hand. Aces also cause an automatic loss if it is the third card turned when the first two cards are a match, e.g. 6,6. The best spread in the game is considered to be a low Ace on the left and a high Ace on the right. This is also one of the worst hands to get as you run the risk of the third card being an Ace and having to pay four times your bet for the hand.\n\nPlayers attempting to middle two posts with a spread of less than 8 will show a long term loss. (Where formula_1 is the spread between the posts (i.e., the value of the higher card minus the value of the lower card), formula_2 solves to a break-even point of 8.0.)\n\nA variation is to split the cards if two end cards are the same value. This requires the bettor to ante in for two hands and the dealer would draw one more card under each of the end cards. After this, the same rules apply.\n\nSome new rules that increase payouts and betting:\n\nThe game show \"Card Sharks\" is based on Acey Deucey and closely resembles the rules. In this game, two players answer high-low survey questions, and guess whether the next card is higher or lower (with duplicates counting as wrong).\n\nAcey-ducey is often mentioned in the book series The Corps by W.E.B. Griffin which is set in the Pacific Theater of World War II, and follows the lives of a group of marines in special service. Griffin never explains the game in the slightest, but his characters are often playing it when they are interrupted by the war, i.e. required to stop playing to perform some duty.\n\nIn 1978 a type-in program BASIC video game version was distributed via the book BASIC Computer Games.\n\nAn unsold 1985 game show pilot hosted by Jim McKrell, entitled \"Split Decision,\" had contestants playing the game Acey Deucey while answering general knowledge questions. Each player picked a card to share and had their own base card, and tried to fit a card in or bust the other player.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6164834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6164834", "title": "Afternoon (play)", "text": "Afternoon (play)\n\nAfternoon is a feminist play written in 1883 by Ouida. It features a man, Earl L'Estrange, who marries a peasant girl, Claire Glyon. L'Estrange grows disillusioned with her and it seems she drowned herself. However, twenty years later he falls in love with a reclusive artist famous for her work, which turns out to be Claire herself, who has not drowned at all. For the remainder of the play, Claire and her friend Laura mock L'Estranger with biting wit, and he in turn eventually concedes that he had not valued his wife as he should have.\n"}
{"id": "9625087", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9625087", "title": "Alvin Tan", "text": "Alvin Tan\n\nAlvin Tan is the founder and artistic director of The Necessary Stage (TNS), and the co-artistic director of the M1 Singapore Fringe Festival. Under Tan's leadership, TNS has grown from a small society in 1987 to one of Singapore’s most prominent and respected theatre companies. He also initiated the Company's Theatre For Youth Branch and the Marine Parade Theatre Festival. \n\nHe has a Bachelor of Arts from the National University of Singapore, a Diploma in Education from the Institute of Education, and a Master of Arts from the University of Birmingham.\n\nOne of the leading proponents of devising theatre in Singapore, Tan has directed more than 40 plays, which have been staged in Singapore, Malaysia, Glasgow, Cairo, Busan, Seoul, Melbourne, Birmingham, London, Dublin, Cairo, New Delhi, Hungary and Romania. Some of these landmark productions include \"Lanterns Never Go Out\", \"Still Building\", \"Pillars\", \"Galileo\", \"Koan\" and \"godeatgod\". He was also involved in \"Diaspora\" in Scotland, for which he co-directed goteatgod with , a Scottish theatre company.\n\nIn 1997, Tan was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship. The following year, he was conferred the Young Artist Award by the National Arts Council. Tan is also strongly involved in civil society work, representing Singapore in numerous conferences and workshops around the world. Tan was invited to participate in the World Culture Forum Alliance in São Paulo and the Conference of Asian Foundations and Organisations in Barcelona, as well as 2005's World Culture Forum in Jordan.\n\nIn December 2005, Tan directed \"Boxing Day: The Tsunami Project\", a response to the tragedy of 2004, as well as \"Separation 40\" with Kuala Lumpur theatre group Dramalab's Zahim Albakri, which won three 2005 BOH Cameronian Arts Awards including Best Director. He co-directed a collaborative project entitled \"Mobile\", a commission of the Singapore Arts Festival 2006 with artists from Japan, the Philippines, Singapore and Thailand that had its world premiere in Singapore in June 2006. \"Mobile\" toured to Kuala Lumpur for a three-night run at The Actors Studio in Bangsar, and Japan for several performances in March 2007.\n\nIn September 2006, Tan directed a main season production for The Necessary Stage, \"Fundamentally Happy\" held at The Necessary Stage Black Box. The play toured to Malaysia for stagings at The Actors Studio in January 2007, before being reprised as part of the M1 Singapore Fringe Festival 2007 at the National Museum Gallery Theatre. The play was adapted into a film in 2015 by directors Tan Bee Thiam and Lei Yuan Bin, starring Adibah Noor.\n\nIn 2014, Tan was awarded the Cultural Medallion.\n\n"}
{"id": "363516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=363516", "title": "Animation in the United States during the silent era", "text": "Animation in the United States during the silent era\n\nAnimated films in the United States date back to at least 1906 when Vitagraph released \"Humorous Phases of Funny Faces\". Although early animations were rudimentary they rapidly became more sophisticated with such classics as \"Gertie the Dinosaur\" in 1914, Felix the Cat, and Koko the Clown.\n\nOriginally a novelty, some early animated silents depicted magic acts or were strongly influenced by the comic strip. Later, they were distributed along with newsreels. Early animation films, like their live-action silent cousins, would come with a musical score to be played by an organist or even an orchestra in larger theatres.\n\nThe art of animation can be traced back to prehistoric and ancient times when people drew multiple pictures on walls and clay pots to try and capture the illusion of life. This eventually led to the invention of the Zoetrope in 1834. However it was not until the advent of film did animation start to take off. There is no single creator of film animation, since many people were working on several similar projects around the same time.\n\nGeorges Méliès; creator of special effect in motion pictures, was one of the first people to use animation with his technique. Méliès discovered a technique when his camera accidentally broke down while shooting a bus driving by. When he had fixed the camera, a hearse happened to be passing by just as Méliès restarted rolling the film, his end result was that he had managed to make a bus transform into a hearse, which is a camera effect called a stop trick. He had discovered that by shooting one frame at a time and changing the image in between frames he could create the illusion of movement, thus stop-motion animation.\n\nJ. Stuart Blackton was possibly the first American film-maker to use techniques animation. Several of his films, among them \"The Enchanted Drawing\" (1900) and \"Humorous Phases of Funny Faces\" (1906) were film versions of Blackton's \"lightning artist\" routine, and utilized modified versions of Méliès' early stop-motion animation techniques to make a series of blackboard drawings appear to move and reshape themselves. 'Humorous Phases of Funny Faces' is regularly cited as the first true animated film, and Blackton is considered the first true animator.\nAnother French artist, Émile Cohl, created a film in 1908 called \"Fantasmagorie\". The film largely consisted of a stick figure moving about and encountering all manner of morphing objects, such as a wine bottle that transforms into a flower. There were also sections of live action where the animator's hands would enter the scene. The film was created by drawing each frame on paper and then shooting each frame onto negative film, which gave the picture a blackboard look. This makes \"Fantasmagorie\" the first animated film created using what came to be known as hand-drawn animation.\n\nFollowing the successes of Blackton and Cohl, many other artists began experimenting with animation. One such artist was Winsor McCay, who created detailed animation with painstaking attention to detail. Each frame was drawn on paper; which invariably required backgrounds and characters to be redrawn and animated. Among McCay's most noted films are \"Little Nemo\" (1911), \"Gertie the Dinosaur\" (1914) and \"The Sinking of the Lusitania\" (1918).\n\nThe production of animated short films, typically referred to as \"cartoons\", became an industry of its own during the 1910s, and cartoon shorts were produced to be shown in movie theaters. The most successful early animation producer was John Randolph Bray, who, along with animator Earl Hurd, patented the cel animation process which dominated the animation industry for the rest of the decade.\n\nThe most popular cartoon series during the silent era was Pat Sullivan's Felix the Cat. \"Felix the Cat\" was first created in 1919 with Feline Follies and became hugely successful throughout the 1920s. However the studio came into trouble during the advent of sound cartoons in the early 1930s when the popularity of Walt Disney's Mickey Mouse was rising above Sullivan's Felix. Sullivan tried to adapt Felix by creating Felix sound cartoons, but they failed to please audiences and Sullivan closed the studio in 1930. He died three years later due to health problems related to alcoholism.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8506006", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8506006", "title": "Australian pub", "text": "Australian pub\n\nAn Australian pub or hotel is a public house or pub for short, in Australia, and is an establishment licensed to serve alcoholic drinks for consumption on the premises. They also provide other services, as entertainment venues, serving meals and providing basic accommodation.\n\nThe Australian pub is a direct descendant of the British and Irish pub. The production and consumption of alcoholic drinks has long played a key role in Western commerce and social activity, and this is reflected in the importance of pubs in the British colonisation of Australia after 1788. However, in the 19th century the local version evolved a number of distinctive features that set it apart from the classic British or urban Irish pub.\n\nIn many cases, pubs were the first structures built in newly colonised areas, especially on the goldfields, and new towns often grew up around them. Pubs typically served multiple functions, simultaneously serving as hostelry, post office, restaurant, meeting place and sometimes even general store.\n\nPubs proliferated during the 19th century, especially during the gold rush that began in the 1850s, and many fine examples were built in the state capitals and major regional cities and towns. Some of the best colonial-era pubs in Australia's major cities have fallen victim to urban re-development, which has destroyed a significant portion of Australia's 19th-century architectural heritage. State capitals like Melbourne and Adelaide, and large regional cities and towns such as Kalgoorlie in Western Australia still boast some examples, and many other 19th century pubs survive in country towns.\n\nAmong the colonial-era hotels, now lost to development, were the Bellevue Hotel in Brisbane (demolished in 1979) and two of Sydney's pub-hotels – the Hotel Australia, which formerly stood on the corner of Castlereagh St and Martin Place (demolished c. 1970 to make way for the MLC Centre) and the Tattersall's Hotel in Pitt St. Its marble bar was dismantled and reinstalled in a basement under the Sydney Hilton Hotel, which was built on the site of the Tattersall's Hotel in the early 1970s.\n\nThe development that solidified the characteristic style of the modern Australian pub was the introduction of the American-style bar counter in the early nineteenth century. Customers began to sit apart from the publicans, the atmosphere became commercial rather than home-like and the pub became a distinctly public, Australian male-dominated establishment.\n\nAustralia's beer-drinking culture is descended from the northern European tradition, which favoured grain-derived beverages like beer and spirits, whereas in southern European countries like Italy and Greece wine was the drink of choice. Beer was for many years the largest-selling form of alcoholic drink in Australia, and Australia has long had one of the highest per capita rates of beer consumption in the world.\n\nAustralia did not develop a significant wine-making industry until the 20th century and while the wine industry grew steadily, wine did not become a major consumer drink until the late 20th century. Therefore, for the period between 1800 and 1950, alcohol production and consumption in Australia was dominated by beer and spirits, with Australian pubs becoming synonymous with ice-cold pilsener beer.\n\nLiquor licensing policies in early colonial Australia were relatively liberal, but in the late 19th century there was growing pressure from conservative Christian groups, known as the Temperance Leagues, to restrict the sale of alcohol. In 1916 after drunken soldiers rioted in Sydney new licensing laws restricted alcohol in all Australian states, in most cases banning sales after 6 pm. The new legislation also forced publicans seeking a spirits licence to also obtain a beer licence and to provide accommodation.\n\nThe licensing laws restricted the sale and service of alcohol almost exclusively to pubs for decades. Alcohol could usually be purchased only in pubs, and many states placed restrictions on the number of bottles per customer that could be sold over the counter. It was not until the late 20th century that \"bottle-shops\" and chain-store outlets (where liquor was sold but not served) became common and restaurants and cafes were more widely licensed to serve liquor or to allow customers to \"bring their own\".\n\nOpening hours were generally heavily restricted, and pubs were usually open only from 10 am to 6 pm, Monday to Saturday. Some pubs were granted special licences to open and close earlier – e.g. opening at 6 am and closing at 3 pm – in areas where there were large numbers of people working night shifts. Pubs were invariably closed on Sundays, until the various state Sunday Observance Acts were repealed during the 1950s and early 1960s.\n\nThese restrictions created a small but lucrative black market in illegal alcohol, leading to the proliferation of illegal alcohol outlets in many urban areas; the so-called \"sly grog shop\". After the Federation of Australia in 1901, Australia's new constitution ruled that the Commonwealth of Australia had no power to legislate in this area, so each state enacted and enforced its own liquor licensing regulations. This meant the Prohibition lobby in Australia had to lobby each individual state government, and was unable to achieve any nationwide ban on the sale of alcohol. Although liquor sales remained heavily restricted for many years, Australia did not experience the many social ills, including the vast expansion of organised crime that resulted from Prohibition in the United States in the 1920s.\n\nPerhaps because of the generally hot, dry climate, Australian beer drinkers soon came to favour chilled pilsener style beers. This trend was reinforced with the expansion and consolidation of the Australian brewing industry, and by the development of hop growing, especially in Tasmania.\n\nThe dominance of chilled pilsener beer was further reinforced by the invention of refrigeration. Australia was one of the first countries to adopt the new technology on a wide scale and pubs were among the first local businesses to use refrigeration, to keep beer ice-cold.\n\nAnother notable feature of Australian beer is its relatively high alcohol content, which for many years has typically ranged between 4 percent and 6 percent alcohol – somewhat higher than their British and American counterparts.\n\nBeer production in Australia began with small private breweries supplying local pubs. The industry rapidly became both larger in scale and more centralised as brewers adopted mass-production techniques during the late 19th century and new modes of transport came into operation.\n\nBy the 20th century the major brewing firms had become very large vertically integrated businesses. They owned the breweries and ran truck fleets and distribution networks, and the major brewers owned chains of pubs across the country. The premises were typically operated on a leasehold basis by licensed publicans.\n\nAs they grew, the larger and more successful firms began to take over smaller breweries, although they often retained the older brand names and the loyal clientele of those brands, such as Carlton & United Breweries (CUB) continuing to distribute \"Tooth's KB Lager\" and \"Resch's Pilsener\" and \"DA\" (\"Dinner Ale\") after they had bought and eventually closed the Reschs and Tooths breweries. By the mid-20th century the brewing industry was dominated by a handful of large and powerful state-based companies: Tooth's and Toohey's in Sydney, Carlton United in Melbourne, Castlemaine in Brisbane, West End and Coopers in Adelaide and Swan in Perth. These brands effectively became unofficial mascots for their respective states. In Victoria, until the late 1990s, a distinction was largely observed of serving the similar CUB lagers Carlton Draught on tap and Victoria Bitter and, to a lesser extent, Melbourne Bitter in bottles and cans; as Victoria Bitter became a prominent national brand on tap, in turn it became considerably more common on tap in Victoria.\n\nIn the late 20th century these beer empires began to expand overseas, before being themselves merged into consolidated global producers; brands under the Australasian CUB and Lion-Nathan subsidiaries of major global beverage empires have considerable presence in Australasia, the UK, Europe and many other regions.\n\nEach Australian state has its own set of liquor licensing laws which regulate the times that pubs could open and close. Until recently these laws were relatively strict, a legacy of the influence of the 'reformist' Christian Temperance groups in the late 19th and early 20th century.\n\nThe concerns of these groups were in some areas well-founded. Alcohol abuse was an endemic social problem in most western countries and, as the local brewing and distilling industry expanded, it quickly became a serious problem in Australia. However, the Temperance movements were driven by a dogmatic Christian world view, and the aim of the larger \"Christian Morality\" movement at this time was to outlaw any social behaviour which went against Christian teaching – this included the consumption of alcohol, all forms of gambling and animal racing, prostitution and recreational (non-alcohol) drug use.\n\nTemperance advocates feared – with some justification – that workers would spend all their time and money in the pub if they were permitted to stay there throughout the evening, and that children and families would suffer as a result (which they often did). Pubs were seen as a nexus for all kinds of immoral activity, including illegal \"SP betting\", and the Temperance movement lobbied long and hard to have public houses tightly regulated and their opening hours severely restricted.\n\nIn this area, the \"wowsers\" (as they were dubbed) were very successful but these high moral concerns backfired, at least in terms of liquor licensing, and the new laws led to the evolution of what was a new phenomenon in Australian 20th century pub culture.\n\nFrom the advent of the eight-hour day until the late 1970s, most Australian blue-collar workers were tied to a 9am-5pm, Monday-to-Friday work schedule. Because most pubs were only permitted to stay open until 6 pm, workers would commonly head for the nearest pub as soon as they finished work at 5 pm, where they would drink as much as possible, as quickly as possible, in the hour before the pub closed. This practice came to be known as the \"six o'clock swill\".\n\nIt fostered an endemic culture of daily binge drinking, which in turn created persistent problems of alcohol-related violence – drunken patrons regularly got into alcohol-fuelled fights in and around the pub, and many husbands arrived home in the early evening extremely drunk, with negative consequences. This destructive 'tradition' persisted through most of the 20th century but it quickly disappeared after the 1960s, when changes to the licensing laws in most states allowed pubs to stay open until 10 pm.\n\nAnother factor that reinforced the nexus between pubs and problem drinking was the fact that, until the late 20th century in most parts of Australia, alcohol could usually only be purchased over the counter at the pub, and the types and amount of alcohol that could be sold was also restricted.\n\nThe pub-based \"bottle shop\", usually one of the smaller bars converted into a sales area for bottled and canned drinks, is now commonplace in Australian pubs, but these only began to appear in the 1960s. These were followed by specialist \"sales-only\" retail outlet chains where alcohol is not served on the premises. It is still unusual for alcohol to be sold in retail grocery stores in Australia, and specialist liquor stores account for most of the alcohol sold in Australia. In most large cities and towns there were also a number of designated \"early openers\", pubs that were specially licensed to open in the early morning and close mid-afternoon. These early openers primarily catered for shift workers who had just finished a 9pm-6am night shift.\n\nAnother Australian pub tradition, which some considered almost as undesirable as the six o'clock swill, was the pub crawl. In many inner city and suburban areas, it was common to find numerous pubs located within a short distance of each other. It became a regular tradition, especially on weekends and public holidays, for groups of drinkers to undertake marathon drinking sessions that moved from pub to pub. Pub crawls would begin in the late afternoon or early evening, then progress to each of the neighbouring pubs in turn. Although it still continues in some areas, the worst excesses of the pub crawl tradition have largely disappeared thanks to the enforcement of responsible service of alcohol (RSA) laws. These laws have made it illegal to serve drunk patrons and both premises and server are liable to severe fines for supplying alcohol to people who are intoxicated.\n\nThese regulations and conventions created a climate in which many pubs – especially those located near dockyards and other industrial sites – gained a reputation for being violent, dangerous and generally unsavoury places. Australians were among the highest per capita alcohol consumers in the world, and the combination of large amounts of alcohol, an all-male clientele and aggravating factors like the six o'clock swill regularly led to violent clashes between inebriated patrons.\n\nThe relationship between pubs and crime in Australia was established early, and some inner-city and suburban pubs were frequented by criminals, who met there to recruit accomplices and plan \"jobs\". Criminals also regularly used particular pubs as \"shop fronts\" from which to sell the proceeds of their crimes on the black market. Late in the 20th century, this dubious tradition came to include drug dealing, and every major Australian city has pubs which became notorious from the 1970s as virtual \"supermarkets\" for cannabis, amphetamines, heroin and other drugs.\n\nGaming and betting is another major part of Australian pub culture. Legal gambling is a relatively new phenomenon in Australia, but illegal gaming has always been part of pub culture. Because legal betting on horse and dog races was for many years restricted to racetracks, and no off-track betting was permitted, illegal betting (usually known as \"starting price\" or SP bookmaking) proliferated. Pubs became a major venue for the collection of bets and the distribution of winnings. One Australian author has noted that SP bookmaking had become so widespread by the early 20th century that constituted \"a virtual national act of civil disobedience\".\n\nOne of the betting games most closely associated with the Aussie pub was the coin game two-up, which was extremely popular during the 19th and earlier 20th century. It is most often associated with the celebration of Anzac Day on 25 April each year. In the years after World War I, it became traditional that, after the early morning commemorative service and march, ex-servicemen would gather at local pubs to drink, reminisce and play two-up. Although still technically illegal, Anzac Day two-up games are now openly played in streets and laneways outside pubs and it has become a national institution that is now generally ignored by police.\n\nSlot machines, known locally as \"pokies\", remain an important source of custom and revenue, although restrictive state-level licensing means that only a minority of pubs can operate them. In 2002, over half of the $4 billion in gambling revenue collected by state governments came from pubs and clubs.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, pubs played an important role as venues for live rock music in Australia.\n\nReflecting the age of its fans, in the preceding decades, pop and rock music performances were typically \"all ages\" events. Smaller concerts were often held in public venues like community, church, school or local council halls, and larger performances (like tours by visiting international acts) were staged in major concert halls or sports stadiums. Some concerts were staged in licensed premises, but the vast majority were in public venues open to all ages, and alcohol was unavailable.\n\nBy the late 1960s, Australia's \"baby boomer\" pop audience was ageing into its late teens and early twenties. This demographic trend coincided with the gradual relaxation of states' restrictive licensing laws – the legal drinking age was generally lowered to 18 (in line with changes to the voting age) and the opening hours of pubs were finally allowed to be extended to 10pm.\n\nRock concerts were attracting younger audiences in large numbers, and changes in the licensing laws enabled pubs to begin presenting regular concerts by rock groups in the early 1970s. Such \"pub gigs\" were often presented free-of-charge, with the cost recouped from alcohol sales, although it became more common for licensees and/or promoters to charge an entry fee, especially for the more popular groups whose fees were higher.\n\nThe relatively low cost of staging pub gigs, the large numbers of patrons they attracted and the high volume of alcohol sales that resulted made them very attractive to pub licensees. State capitals like Melbourne and Sydney had dozens of pubs in inner-city and suburban areas, and many of these had large function rooms or large public bars from the early 1970s pubs became one of the most important outlets for Australian rock music. Many significant Australian groups of the 1970s and 1980s – including AC/DC, Cold Chisel, Midnight Oil, The Choirboys and INXS – spent their formative years playing on the pub circuit.\n\nAnother significant feature of the pub gig was that it gave rock groups in the so-called \"Second Wave\" of Australian rock the chance to develop their performance and repertoire. Pubs like the renowned Station Hotel in Prahran, Melbourne, offered extended residencies to popular or up-and-coming rock bands, enabling them to hone their playing 'chops' and refine their material in front of a varied audience, and many groups generated fiercely loyal local followings thanks to pub residencies.\n\nThe live proficiency of Australian 'pub-rock' bands of this period is widely attributed to their experiences playing in the rough-and-ready atmosphere of the pub circuit. Unlike the frenzied but generally upbeat atmosphere typical of Sixties pop shows, pub gigs could be a testing experience for even the most accomplished band. Often as not, a significant proportion of the audience were in varying states of intoxication, and groups who did not provide the kind of performance that was required by the audience would be mercilessly heckled by dissatisfied crowds.\n\nBy the late 1970s a significant number of capital-city and regional pubs were presenting rock music on a regular basis, forming a loose but lucrative circuit of venues for bands all over Australia, and the most popular venues offered music every night of the week.\n\nCertain groups became closely associated with formative residencies at particular pubs – a prime example was the long-running residency by Midnight Oil at the Royal Antler Hotel in Narrabeen, on Sydney's northern beaches in the late 1970s.\n\nSome pubs became associated with particular styles – in the early 1980s, the Civic Hotel in Sydney's CBD provided important support for many emerging local \"new wave\" acts including Mental As Anything, The Choirboys, The Numbers, Sunnyboys, INXS and Matt Finish.\nOther pub-rock venues became renowned for offering a wide variety of music by the best established and emerging acts; venues of this period include the General Bourke Hotel in Adelaide, the Railway Hotel in Richmond, Victoria, and in Sydney, the Annandale Hotel, the Family Inn in Rydalmere, the Hopetoun Hotel in Surry Hills and the Sandringham Hotel in Newtown.\n\nBy the end of the 1970s the pub circuit was a major provider of rock music entertainment in Australia and as a result, early tours by many visiting overseas acts from overseas who were becoming popular in Australia included many performances at major city and regional pubs; this included the first Australian tours by bands like XTC, The Cure and Simple Minds; such bands were often \"broken\" locally thanks to airplay on the ABC's new non-commercial 24-hour rock radio station Triple J, which played a wide variety of new music not heard on commercial pop-rock stations, and many international rock acts of the 1980s gained live exposure on the Australian pub circuit before gaining wider acceptance.\n\nPub rock flourished in the 1980s, and this period is now regarded with a degree of nostalgia, and it has come to be considered something of a \"golden age\" for Australian post-punk rock music. A number of social and economic trends combined to reduce the flourishing pub-rock circuit to a shadow of its former self.\n\nIn the late 1980s Australian state governments began relaxing the laws governing legalised gambling. One of the most significant changes was the controversial decision to allow the placement of poker machines in pubs. Poker machines quickly delivered huge financial returns to pub licensees and it soon became much easier and more profitable for licensees to close the rooms formerly used for music shows and refurbish them as poker machine parlours.\n\nAnother related trend that severely affected the pub circuit was the property boom in Australian capital cities in the 1980s. In cities like Sydney, which once boasted dozens of pubs in the central business district alone, rising prices and increased demand for CBD and inner-city properties saw many pubs closed and demolished. Their strategic location made them prime targets for redevelopment, as did the fact that these buildings – which were often only two or three stories high – were relatively easy and cheap to buy up and redevelop.\n\nThe interlinked process of urban redevelopment and gentrification also had a major effect on pubs that acted as rock music venues. From the 1970s on, Australian capital-city CBDs began to be redeveloped; many buildings that were once occupied by businesses or offices that operated on a 9-to-5 basis moved to cheaper locations and in the 1990s a significant number of formerly commercial buildings were either demolished to make way for apartment complexes, or were redeveloped for housing.\n\nAnother trend that had a significant impact on the pub circuit was the process of gentrification in inner-city suburbs in Australian cities. For much of the 20th century, suburbs like Port Melbourne and Newtown (Sydney) were working class, low-income areas with a high proportion of migrants, sometimes regarded as slums. However, in the last quarter of the 20th century, suburbs like Paddington, Glebe and Newtown attracted many younger people because of their colourful character, the availability of cheap rental housing and their proximity to the city and major tertiary institutions like The University of Sydney. Many former students eventually settled in the area and bought property there, and these former \"slums\" soon became some sought-after locales, beginning a process of gentrification that saw many pub venues put under increasing pressure to modify their trading hours and limit the amount of noise that emanated from pub gigs, which was often considerable.\n\nThese significant changes to social demographies led to many renowned pub venues such as the Hopetoun Hotel in Surry Hills ceasing their presentation of music and other events. The inherent value of the property occupied by pubs also led to many more being demolished or developed.\n\nOne notable casualty of this trend in Sydney was the former Harold Park Hotel in Glebe. This once thriving pub venue was a popular music venue from the late 1970s to the mid-1990s, and during its heyday in the 1980s, as well as regular rock gigs, it presented a variety of other events including:\n\n\nThe typical Aussie pub differs markedly from the cosy, welcoming, family-friendly \"cottage\" atmosphere of British pubs, albeit with some exceptions. Rapid urban development, coupled with a widespread disregard for Australia's colonial architectural history, has played a large part in this. Most older English pubs have been declared protected heritage sites, since many are now centuries old, but this curatorial attitude is yet to achieve widespread acceptance in Australia, and few pubs in Australia date back further than the second half of the 19th century and some of the grandest Victorian-era pubs have also been destroyed.\n\nSurviving late 19th-century pubs such as the Old Canberra Inn in Lyneham, Australian Capital Territory are similar to their British antecedents in layout and atmosphere, although many Australian pubs of this era are typically a good deal larger than the average British pub; many are three stories high or more, and they usually include several very spacious bar areas, as well as large accommodation spaces on the upper floors.\n\nMajor regional and country pubs dating from the 19th century and early 20th century are often large and imposing structures, and many were lavishly decorated, both inside and out. Because of Australia's high summer temperatures, wide awnings and verandahs were common around pub exteriors, as they were for most colonial-era commercial buildings. Pub verandahs and balconies were often fitted with elaborate iron lace facings and cast-iron columns, because these new mass-produced components were highly fashionable, relatively cheap, and easily transportable. Sometimes, in areas where wood was plentiful, internal decoration included elaborately carved wooden fretwork panels.\n\n19th century pub interiors often featured very high ceilings – typically four metres (12 feet) or more. Ceilings and upper walls were often embellished with elaborate plaster panels and cornices. Mass-produced embossed tin panelling was widely used when it became available in the late 19th century. Windows were often glazed with decorative leadlight or etched/sandblasted glass panes.\n\nThe main bars in the biggest pubs typically featured large and very impressive serving bars, featuring intricately carved and finished wood and/or stone features, with brass rails, ceramic or brass pump handles, tiles, mirrors, etched glass panels and many other types of decoration.\n\nBy far the most opulent extant example of the 19th-century Australian pub bar is the famed Marble Bar, originally built in the former Tattersall's Hotel in Sydney. Even relatively modest pubs often featured impressive bars carved from native Australian red cedar (which was then in plentiful supply) and other native woods, and often embellished with decorative ceramic tiles and marble and/or brass fittings.\n\nFollowing the consolidation of the brewery industry in the 20th century, many new pubs were built and in large cities many older pubs were either extensively renovated or demolished and replaced with new structures.\n\nAlthough Australian pubs vary considerably in size and design, it is possible to define a number of distinctive features that describe the 'classic' Australian urban pub of the mid-20th century. The typical Aussie pub was functionally designed, often in a stripped-back Art Deco or International Style. Usually two or three-storey structures, they are typically built of brick and/or concrete, making extensive use of prefabricated plaster sheeting and cornices, ceramic tiles and terrazzo in their internal linings.\n\nIn layout, urban pubs typically feature several inter-connected bar-rooms of different sizes and designations, usually clustered around a large central bar area with several serving outlets. Many suburban pubs also often include an outdoor or semi-enclosed area known as a \"beer garden\", where food and drink was served and where (especially in recent years) families with children are able to eat (although children of course cannot be served alcohol and they are not permitted in any other area of the pub).\n\nLarger pubs – especially regional cities and large towns – often included a substantial kitchen and dining room and/or a function room of some kind, such as a ballroom, although this was not common in later urban pubs. A feature common to almost all Australian pubs, whether in the city, the suburbs or in rural and regional areas, was the provision of rooms that could be rented out as accommodation, usually located on the floors above the bars.\n\nUnlike their ornate 19th-century predecessors, 20th century pub bars are relatively spartan in design and decoration. In most pubs the ceilings and upper walls were fairly plain, although some featured moulded Art Deco cornice and ceiling designs. The lower walls were typically tiled for ease of cleaning, and floors were usually paved with terrazzo and/or tiles.\n\nCompared to America and Europe, relatively few large Art Deco and International Style buildings were constructed in Australia in the 1930s and 1940s. Few of these have survived the recent waves of urban redevelopment and most of Australia's fine Art Deco cinemas, shops, restaurants and office buildings were torn down in the late 20th century. Therefore, Australian pubs of the mid-20th century are among the best surviving examples of Art Deco and International Style urban architecture in Australia.\n\nAlthough these newer pubs were generally far more utilitarian in design than their predecessors, one especially notable decorative feature of Australian pubs developed in the 1920s and 1930s – the iconic paint-on-glass beer advertisement.\n\nThis distinctive Australian graphic genre probably evolved from the elaborate back-painted bar mirrors of the 19th century. Often mounted on the outer walls of pubs, these eye-catching pieces were not printed posters or standard paintings. They were elaborate craft products created by teams of skilled commercial artists, many of whom were employed by the breweries for their entire working lives.\n\nThe creation of these beer ads was a specialised craft – they were entirely hand-painted in reverse on thick glass, and then wall-mounted in heavy brass frames, which were kept highly polished. Some exterior displays were made with translucent paint, so that they could be illuminated from behind. They featured striking and often highly stylised designs and compositions, painted in vibrant colours, and in many cases the text and some parts of the graphic were accentuated with real gold leaf.\n\nThey varied in size, but the larger examples were as much as a square metre in size or more. Like the example below, they typically depicted archetypal 'Aussie' sporting scenes – swimming, surfing, sailing, horse-racing, cricket or football – or social events such as picnics, dances and parties.\n\nMany Deco-style pubs had sections of curved façade, because a large proportion of Australian pubs are built on street corners, and these spaces were often highlighted by the large curved frames of these colourfully painted beer ads.\n\nBecause of their inherent fragility and location, many of these marvellous works either deteriorated beyond repair or were destroyed by accident or vandalism. Over the years, as advertising materials (and the pubs themselves) were progressively modernised during the late 20th century, almost all the hand-painted beer ads were removed, but their distinctive style has become well-recognised and much-loved, and they are still a reference point in modern Australian commercial art. The best surviving examples are now museum pieces and expensive collectors' items.\n\nPerhaps the most striking functional difference between Australian pubs and drinking establishments in other countries is that, for most of their history, Australian pubs were strictly segregated along gender and racial lines.\n\nAs author Diane Kirkby has observed: \"Masculinity and national identity were ... interwoven with pub culture and the ethnic and sexual exclusivity of that culture was celebrated.\"\n\nIn a controversial move in 2007, the Victorian Civil and Administrative Tribunal granted a gay bar in Collingwood, Victoria the right to refuse entry to heterosexuals and lesbians in order to preserve the bar's gay character.\n\nThe main bar of the typical Australian pub, usually the largest, was the so-called \"Public Bar\". However, this title was an ironic misnomer, since until the 1970s, only men were permitted to drink in Public Bars.\n\nMost pubs included a \"Ladies' Lounge\", furnished with chairs and tables, where women and men could drink together, but in many pubs women were usually only admitted to the Lounge Bar when accompanied by a male. It was also common for women not to be allowed to buy drinks for themselves.\n\nSexual segregation in pubs persisted into the 1970s and only began to break down after women's rights activists began to publicly challenge the convention. One of the most famous incidents in this informal campaign took place in January 1973, when a group of feminist activists staged a protest against the rule in the Public Bar of the Hotel Manly in Sydney.\n\nWhen they entered and ordered drinks they were refused service by the publican, who typically claimed that the hotel had insufficient toilet facilities to cater for women. The women's response – deliberately echoing the tactics of the early Suffragettes – was to chain themselves to a railing that ran around the bar. The event gained wide media attention and caused the hotel industry considerable embarrassment; within a few years this long-standing sexist convention had virtually disappeared in most urban areas, and it was eventually enforced by state and federal anti-discrimination legislation.\n\nIt has been found that, despite their long history of gender segregation, pubs provided an important source of income for many women.\n\nWidowhood and wife desertion were much more common in 19th-century Australia than today, and in the absence of any social safety net for single mothers, women had to explore options to provide for their families, especially in remote areas. Pub-keeping provided jobs not only for widows and deserted wives, but also for many female ex-convicts.\n\nIt was comparatively lucrative work, so pub-keeping became a welcome and preferred option for many women. The evolution of the 'classic' pub and the women's roles in the pub developed concurrently in the mid-19th century, when the term \"barmaid\" first came into common usage.\n\nBarmaids, like many other working women, had to fight against the 'traditional' gender challenges of lower pay rates and social stigmatisation. Unlike other classes of working women, such as domestic servants and shop staff, barmaids were often stigmatised and shunned. This discrimination was exacerbated by the \"morals\" campaigns that were waged around Australia from the 1880s to the 1920s, and religiously motivated temperance activists deliberately fostered a negative image of the barmaid as a \"loose woman\" who lured men into pubs to drink and squander their money.\n\nThe reality was often the exact opposite. Barmaids typically prided themselves on their ability to pour, chat, and keep a clean bar simultaneously – not to mention their ability to support themselves and their family – and they deeply resented this characterisation by prohibitionists, but the stereotype stuck. Even though many barmaids loved the job because it offered better pay and greater freedom than typical female occupations like household servants, barmaids remained the object of scorn by 'proper' society.\n\nAccommodation was another vital facet of Australian pub operation, and indeed it is the origin of the pub's \"proper\" business title, often required by licencing requirements – Australian pubs are usually registered for business under the formal name \"hotel\", and the more upmarket pubs often reversed this, placing the word \"Hotel\" before the name (e.g. the Hotel Australia).\n\nMany city, suburban and country pubs offered reasonably priced accommodation, as well as dining facilities for visitors and business people, and this tradition continues, with pubs joining together in an accommodation cooperative that operates under the name \"PubStay\".\n\nCountry-town and rural hotels were of crucial importance in the years before the advent of the motel and modern budget hotel chains. Moreover, licensing laws often required the provision of a minimum level of accommodation, differentiating hotels from bars which themselves came under pressure from de-licensing legislation from the late 1890s onwards. Until the later 20th century, a significant proportion of tourists, commercial travellers, business people and touring performers in Australia regularly relied on pub accommodation. As one former commercial traveller lamented in a recent ABC Radio social history feature, the end of the era of pub accommodation also led to the disintegration of the social networks that centred on rural and regional pubs.\n\nCity and suburban pubs were an important accommodation source for country people visiting the cities for major events, such the annual Sydney Royal Easter Show. For single people, pubs also offered an alternative to boarding houses or rental housing, with many pubs renting rooms to long-term tenants who lived and ate at the pub, sometimes over periods of several decades.\n\nThere are an estimated 3,000 Australian themed pubs worldwide. They have been criticised for a lack of authenticity. They are particularly prevalent wherever expatriate communities are found, arguably due to a sense of connection to the Australian diaspora.\n\nDunstan, Keith\n\"Wowsers\"\n\nKirkby, Diane\n\"Barmaids: A History of Women's Work in Pubs 1790-1990s\"\n\nSumerling, Patricia\n\"Down at the Local: A social history of the hotels of Kensington and Norwood\"\n\nWright, Clare\n\"Beyond The Ladies' Lounge: Australia's Female Publicans\"\n\nhttp://www.indiana.edu/~engs/articles/ar1096.htm\n\n"}
{"id": "21389610", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21389610", "title": "Battlefield: Bad Company 2", "text": "Battlefield: Bad Company 2\n\nBattlefield: Bad Company 2 is a first-person shooter video game developed by the Swedish firm EA DICE and published by Electronic Arts for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, Xbox 360, iOS and Kindle Fire systems. It is a direct sequel to \"\" and is part of the \"Battlefield\" game series. It was released worldwide in March 2010. The iOS port was released on the App Store on December 16, 2010. A Kindle Fire version was released in June 2012.\n\nThe game is primarily a squad-level first-person shooter based in a contemporary modern warfare setting. Additionally, the game includes a single-player campaign, where the player re-assumes the role of Preston Marlowe, the protagonist of the original game. The game's Frostbite 1.5 engine allows for destructible environments. Multiplayer maps, which allow for five different game modes, contain a wide selection of vehicles, aircraft and emplacements.\n\nThe game was met with positive reception from critics, garnering a mean of 88 from aggregator Metacritic for the Xbox 360 and PS3 versions, and 87 for the PC version. It became a commercial success, selling more than twelve million units since its initial release. Seven VIP map packs, as well as a downloadable game mode, were added after launch; an expansion pack, \"\" (centered on the Vietnam War), released on December 21, 2010.\n\nWhile \"Bad Company 2\" is primarily a first-person shooter, it follows other games in the series by allowing the player to control certain vehicles, including ATVs, APCs, tanks, and helicopters. On foot, players are given access to a variety of real-world small arms such as assault rifles and machine guns. Players can also jump, crouch, and sprint. They can carry one primary weapon and a pistol in multiplayer, or two primary weapons in single-player, as well as grenades and other equipment. Players can fire \"from the hip\", but zooming in and using iron sights, reflex sights, or telescopic sights (depending on the weapon) will provide much better accuracy when shooting.\n\n\"Bad Company 2\" heavily emphasizes destructible environments. Large sections of most buildings can be destroyed by explosives, and some walls and fences break down under barrages of bullets, with the game's physics engine realistically simulating the destruction.\n\nThe game utilizes a \"regenerating health\" system, rather than giving players health points as older games in the \"Battlefield\" series have done. To accommodate this in multiplayer, the \"Medic\" equipment now accelerates health regeneration rather than directly restoring the player's health. If a player is wounded, he or she must take cover and avoid damage in order to regain health. A heavily wounded player will see dirt and blood around the edges of the screen.\n\n\"Bad Company 2\" features a story-driven single-player campaign. For most of the narrative, the player takes control of Preston Marlowe, one of the members of the titular \"Bad Company\". The exception to this is the first mission, which is set prior to the rest of the campaign. Each mission is divided into a series of objectives, often interspersed with cutscenes which simulate the style of war films. While the other members of Bad Company will engage in combat, the game relies upon the player to complete the objectives and kill most of the enemies. Although the player's computer-controlled allies can never die, they cannot carry out objectives. Aside from infantry combat, the campaign contains several missions in which the player controls a vehicle, or mans a weapon turret while a teammate controls the vehicle.\n\nEach weapon in the campaign is considered a collectible - the first time the player picks up that type of weapon, a \"Collectable Unlocked\" message appears. There are also sensor stations throughout the campaign which the player can find and destroy - this is also recorded in the campaign stats. \"Supply Drop\" crates are scattered throughout the missions, where the player can exchange weapons and replenish ammo. The Supply Drop crates will remember any weapon the player picks up and this weapon will then be available for the rest of the campaign.\n\nMultiplayer is class-based, with four classes: Assault, Engineer, Medic, and Recon. Each class has a variety of unique weapons and equipment, and serves a specific role in combat. There are also some weapons that can be used by any class, such as pistols and shotguns. Each class gains experience and levels up separately.\n\nNew items are unlocked by earning experience points, which are gained for performing actions conducive to the goals of the player's team, such as eliminating enemy players, healing team mates, or capturing or defending points of interest. These points count towards a total of 50 ranks. Bonuses to the base number of points can be awarded under certain circumstances (such as eliminating an enemy by means of a headshot).\n\nMultiplayer mode features 15 vehicles, including new additions, such as the Sikorsky UH-60 Black Hawk, a quad bike, a four-man patrol boat, a personal watercraft, a ZU-23-2 mounted on a BMD-3 armoured personnel carrier, and a Northrop Grumman MQ-8 Fire Scout, controlled via remote computer terminals. The available maps are set in various environments such as South America and Alaska, near the borders of Russia, similar to those seen in the single-player.\n\nA dog tag system, as seen in \"Battlefield 2142\" and \"Battlefield: Bad Company\", is also used, awarding players with their opponents' dog tags when they defeat them with a knife attack. Players can use party chat for each game mode. The game uses the PunkBuster anti-cheat program to protect from cheaters in online multiplayer matches.\n\n\"Bad Company 2\" features several game types:\n\nConquest: Features the classic gameplay of the \"Battlefield\" series. Players must capture and defend flags for as long as possible. If a base is taken, it can be recaptured, and the cycle can repeat until the game's end. Every kill depletes one ticket, and tickets gradually decrease when one team controls more than half of the flags on the map. Vehicles can spawn once a flag is captured. When one team's tickets are depleted, that team will lose the game. Lost tickets can be regained by reviving fallen team mates.\n\nOnslaught: Tasks one squad of up to four players to capture certain points on the map, allowing the squad to advance. The game is won by capturing all the points. Unlike other modes, the only enemies are bots. This game mode features new lighting and time of day on existing maps, as well as new vehicles. It is available for Xbox 360 and PS3 only; a PC version was planned, but was cancelled.\n\nRush: Players must defend or destroy pairs of M-COM stations until either the attackers run out of respawn tickets or all of the stations are destroyed. Lost tickets can be regained by reviving fallen team mates. An M-COM station can be destroyed by planting a charge, using explosive weapons or ballistics, or simply by demolishing the building in which it is located. However, not all M-COM stations exist in destructible buildings, forcing players to use a variety of methods to achieve the same goal. When a charge is planted by the attacking team, an alarm is activated and the defenders have a limited amount of time to get to the M-COM station and disarm the bomb before it detonates.\n\nSquad Deathmatch: Features up to four squads, each fighting against the other. An infantry support vehicle is available for any squad to claim, giving a significant advantage. The first squad to score fifty kills wins the match.\n\nSquad Rush: Similar to Rush, but consists of only two squads, one defending and the other attacking. The maps used for Squad Rush are smaller versions of those for both Conquest and Rush modes. There are only 2 M-COM stations in each round.\n\n\"Bad Company 2\" is set in the near future during the fictional Second Russo-American War between the United States and Russian Federation, the latter supporting the fictional Latin American Militia, a rebel group operating in South America.\n\nThe game begins in October 1944, as a group of US commandos infiltrate an Imperial Japanese Navy-controlled island in the Sea of Japan as part of \"Operation Aurora.\" They secure a Japanese scientist who was working on a secret scalar weapon, and escape the island on a submarine. However, as foreshadowed by the scientist's warnings, the commandos witness the weapon firing and subsequently perish from the resulting tsunami, sparking a myth within the U.S. Army.\n\nIn 2008, Privates Preston Marlowe, Terrence Sweetwater, George Haggard and Sergeant Samuel Redford are fighting in Russia in an attempt to secure a scalar weapon device. Despite evading Russian soldiers and completing the mission successfully, the device is discovered to be a fake. Impressed with their previous activities, Army General Braidwood has the squad transferred into the Special Activities Division and assigns them a new mission; to contact Agent James Wyatt (called Aguire in-game), much to the disappointment of Redford, who had hoped to retire after the previous mission.\n\nThe squad travels to Bolivia in search of the agent, and after many firefights, they eventually save Aguire. He sends them to retrieve his scalar technology intelligence from a French weather satellite that can be controlled from a base in the Andes. Sweetwater lands the satellite and the squad successfully defeat a Russian attempt to destroy it. Marlowe locates the data server and proceeds to descend the mountain during a blizzard while dodging Russian patrols. He survives, and is extracted by the others.\n\nDuring extraction, Aguire briefs the squad about the man responsible for rebuilding scalar weaponry; Arkady Kirilenko, a Russian Army colonel the squad encountered in Russia. Kirilenko is hoping to use scalar weaponry to disable America's power grid and pave the way for a Russian invasion. He is believed to be hiding in Chile. The squad head there, aided by US forces, and find Kirilenko, who escapes again. Left with only Kirilenko's papers, Sweetwater discovers there is a shipping manifest for an abandoned ship called the \"Sangre Del Toro\". Aided by the rest of the squad, Marlowe finds the ship and retrieves a compound essential to the use of the weapon, while also discovering the truth behind Operation Aurora - the US military knew it was a suicide mission, and the operation was planned in order to learn more about the weapon's capabilities.\n\nWhile attempting to meet Aguire in Ecuador, the squad's helicopter is shot down and they are separated. Along with their helicopter pilot, Flynn (Eric Loren), they regroup and escape the local militia. Redford gives Aguire the compound before finding out that Aguire has double-crossed them by allying himself with Kirilenko. Aguire reveals that he wants revenge against the United States for what happened to his father, Thomas Wyatt (one of the commandos killed in 1944 during Operation Aurora). Despite this, Kirilenko betrays Aguire and kills him. Before he can kill the squad, however, Flynn intervenes and saves them at the cost of his own life.\n\nWhile the squad is mourning Flynn, they hear Kirilenko talking through a guard's radio. Marlowe knifes the guard and the squad proceeds toward the city of Quito. Here, after battling squads of South American and Russian troops, they find a large An-225 cargo aircraft that is believed to house the scalar weapon. This is confirmed as a powerful electromagnetic pulse is suddenly released, disabling all electronic equipment in the city except the aircraft. Haggard and Sweetwater become disheartened, with Haggard going so far as suggesting the squad abort the mission. Angry at his allies for giving up, Marlowe is about to continue the mission alone before Redford stops him and then convinces the rest to continue. They then infiltrate the aircraft as it takes off. After a firefight to reach the cockpit, they find it empty. They return to the cargo bay to find Kirilenko attempting to fire the scalar weapon again, this time high over the southern United States. With the help of explosives from the plane's armory, they access and destroy the scalar weapon.\n\nThe explosion sends the aircraft plummeting, forcing the squad to bail out, but Kirilenko grabs the last parachute before Marlowe. In free fall, Marlowe kills Kirilenko, and is then saved by Sweetwater who hands Marlowe the parachute that was stolen by Kirilenko. The squad lands in Texas, Haggard's home state. Shortly after, General Braidwood arrives to inform them that they are to aid the US Army against an incoming Russian invasion that recently passed through Alaska and Canada, much to the squad's disappointment.\n\nThe game was first announced in February 2009. On October 19, game developer DICE posted a Twitter announcement stating the game will have dedicated server support. This was in response to Infinity Ward's announcement on October 17 that \"\" would not support dedicated servers. A PS3 version of the beta began development on November 19, while the PC version was pushed back until February 2010 because of difficulties with PC varieties.\n\nThe online multiplayer demo for the Xbox 360 and the closed beta for the PC were released on January 28, 2010, and servers ran until February 25. The demo was released on the PS3 on February 4, 2010 in Europe and North America and February 11, 2010 in Asia. The PS3 beta featured the map \"Arica Harbor\", while the PC beta, Xbox 360 demo, and PS3 demo featured the map \"Port Valdez\".\n\nDuring an interview with GameZone's Dakota Grabowski in March 2010, Senior Producer Patrick Bach revealed that following the negative feedback from PC gamers after the first \"Battlefield: Bad Company\" was not released on the PC, Electronic Arts and DICE had a separate dedicated team working on the PC version of \"Bad Company 2\". Bach stated \"We see it as very, very hardcore and important part of our customers. So we put a lot of effort into making sure that everything worked perfect.\" Bach also commented on the use of peripherals such as a mouse and keyboard on consoles, saying \"I don't think that we have any special connections to peripherals to the consoles [...] The biggest problem with peripherals for consoles is that the console itself is a level playground. It's even and you know the consumer has the same technology and have the same peripherals and same controls – which makes it easier for us to create a game that feels fair. By catering to a mouse and keyboard for the consoles, it would maybe skew the even playground.\"\n\nThe PC version of the game was co-developed with fellow Swedish developer Coldwood Interactive.\nThe game uses Dolby Digital and Frostbite's High Definition Audio Range technology. The score was composed by Mikael Karlsson and is featured on the \"Battlefield: Bad Company 2 Official Soundtrack\", which was released on February 2, 2010.\n\nAs a pre-order promotion, EA offered the \"Limited Edition\" of \"Bad Company 2\" at normal pricing. By pre-ordering the Limited Edition, buyers of the PC version were given early access to the closed beta from January 28 to February 25. Owners of the Limited Edition on all systems were also given early access to numerous weapons and vehicle perks, which included the M1A1 Thompson and an M1911 pistol, as well as four vehicle perks.\n\nIn addition to the six upgrades offered by EA on all pre-orders of the Limited Edition, select retailers offered their own incentives. Copies pre-ordered at GameStop, for example, came with an additional code, unlocking the AKS-74U carbine and giving access to the Squad Rush game mode 30 days early (North America only). All six Limited Edition upgrades, as well as the AKS-74U, are also available to owners of the Standard Edition of the game, but they must be acquired by accumulating points in-game.\n\nThe \"Ultimate Edition\" was released on August 31, 2010 for the Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3. The package includes \"Battlefield: Bad Company 2\", \"Battlefield 1943\", \"Onslaught\" mode, and immediate access to four vehicle upgrades and two weapon unlocks from purchase, a bonus originally included only in the Limited Edition.\n\nAs part of a program designed to encourage game purchases and reward the community, EA and DICE confirmed that they would periodically release additional \"VIP\" content for \"Bad Company 2\". On Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3, this content is available free to \"VIP\" players who purchase a new copy of the game. Owners of used copies will be able to purchase a VIP code for an additional cost from their respective system's online store. Owners of the PC version will receive this content for free regardless of ownership status.\n\nOn May 30, 2013, the VIP pass was made free for all Xbox 360 and PlayStation 3 users.\n\nAs part of the \"Battlefield Veterans\" program, players gain access to the M1 Garand rifle if they have registered two or more \"Battlefield\" games with EA, or if they have joined the \"EA Gun Club\".\n\nSeveral map packs have been released for the game. \"Map Pack 1\" was released on March 2, 2010 as \"Day One Map Pack\". It added two new maps: Nelson Bay for Rush mode and Laguna Alta for Conquest. \"Map Pack 2\" was released on March 30, and added two new maps: Laguna Presa for Rush and Arica Harbour for Conquest. \"Map Pack 3\" was released on June 9 for consoles, and June 30 for PC. The Laguna Alta map was made available for Squad Rush, and the Nelson Bay map was made available for Squad Deathmatch. \"Map Pack 4\" was released on July 7. The Atacama Desert map was made available for Rush and the Port Valdez map for Conquest. \"Map Pack 5\" was released on July 28. The White Pass map was made available for Rush and the Nelson Bay map for Conquest. \"Map Pack 6\" was released on August 18. The Panama Canal map was made available for Squad Deathmatch and the Laguna Presa map for Squad Rush. \"Map Pack 7\" was released on December 1, and includes two maps ported from the first \"Bad Company\" game; \"Oasis\" and \"Harvest Day\", both of which are playable in all game modes. As well as these, two maps from the single-player campaign were ported to multiplayer; \"Cold War\" was made available for Rush, Squad Rush and Squad Deathmatch while \"Heavy Metal\" was made available for Conquest and Squad Deathmatch.\n\nKit upgrades were released on April 21, 2010 for the Xbox 360, May 12 for the PlayStation 3 and December 1 for PC. Residents of the United States can retrieve unlock codes for the upgrades on the Xbox 360 by purchasing specially marked Dr Pepper bottles. The kit upgrades include two additional pins and one additional award for each class, as well as unique camouflage upgrades. Kit shortcuts were released on June 16 for consoles. The shortcuts are available for purchase for each separate class, or in a bundle pack for all four classes. Upon installation, the shortcuts will unlock all primary weapons, gadgets and specialisations for their respective class.\n\nA new mode, \"Onslaught\", was released on June 22 and 24 for the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 respectively. In Onslaught, up to four players co-operatively face endless waves of computer controlled enemies. \"Bad Company 2\" senior producer Patrick Bach said that DICE would \"consistently support the fans playing \"Bad Company 2\" with new ways to get into multiplayer.\" He also said that the mode would \"challenge the elite players with new experiences to improve their performance online.\"\n\nAn expansion pack, \"\", was released in December 2010.\n\n\"Battlefield: Bad Company 2\" received mostly positive reviews from game critics. Aggregating review websites GameRankings and Metacritic have the PlayStation 3 version at 88.83% and 88/100 respectively, the Xbox 360 version at 89.03% and 88/100, and the PC version at 88.34% and 87. The iOS version received generally poorer reviews and holds scores of 73.33% and 64/100.\n\nGameZone's Steven Hopper gave the game 9.25/10, saying, \"Even though the single-player campaign still isn't where it needs to be, \"Bad Company 2\" is definitely a great sequel that builds on its predecessor in every way, making for one that no shooter fan will want to miss, especially if you go online for your gaming.\" \"Game Informer\" gave the game 9.5 out of 10, praising the improvements made over the first \"Bad Company\". GameTrailers gave the game 9.1 out of 10, praising its use of an intertwining multiplayer in which \"Purists will appreciate that you must earn every kill.\" Level design was also commended; \"Bad Company 2 features sprawling, densely populated environments with an excellent level of detail.\" However, they referred to the single-player mode as \"predictable.\"\n\nGameSpy reviewer Anthony Gallegos gave the game 4.5 stars out of 5, describing the single-player campaign as \"a blast\" and concluding that \"the staying power for BFBC2 lies in its multiplayer.\" Dan Whitehead from Eurogamer reviewed the game and gave it a score of 9/10, describing it as an \"open challenge\" to Activision's market leader, \"Call of Duty: Modern Warfare 2\", and calling \"Bad Company 2\" a \"way superior game\" when compared to \"Modern Warfare 2\". Whitehead also commented that it had \"immediately evident\" improvements over the previous game in the series, and concluded that \"Bad Company 2\" is \"the online shooter at its most streamlined, most thoughtful, most exhilarating.\" IGN gave the game 8.9 out of 10, praising the visuals as being \"near-photo realistic\" and calling it \"one of the best looking games around.\"\n\nAs of March 2010, 2.3 million copies of \"Bad Company 2\" had been sold in Europe and North America. By May 2010, it had sold more than 5 million copies, which had grown to \"almost 6 million\" by November. As of June 30, 2011, over 9 million copies of the game have been sold across all platforms. As of March 2012, this number had increased to over 12 million.\n"}
{"id": "44003394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44003394", "title": "Blue Defense", "text": "Blue Defense\n\nBlue Defense! (formerly Defend!) is an iOS game by Canadian developer John Kooistra and released on Jan 31, 2009. A sequel entitled Blue Defense: Second Wave! was developed by Cat in a Box Games and released on September 30, 2010. Blue Attack! is a spin-off.\n\nTouchArcade said \"Progressive levels are increasingly challenging and provides a good amount of gameplay. Normally, we frown upon games without sound, but for $0.99 and an otherwise fun game, we can overlook it\". Appadvice wrote \"\"Blue Defense!\" is a fun little game that doesn't clutter up the experience with anything. Those looking for something reminiscent of arcade classics like \"Space Invaders\", \"Galaga\", or other vertical shooters will be pleased. If you don't like primary colors, silence, or are afraid of your iPhone getting motion sickness, this game is not for you. Personally, I enjoyed it for a day and didn't open it up again until this review\". TouchMyApps said \"\"Blue Defense!\" is tastefully designed and brimming with twists, turns and tongue biting. Its polished graphics, smooth animation and habit-forming gameplay are praiseworthy, but without sound and a global scoring system it feels somewhat unfinished. So, is it worth the 99 cents? Absolutely\". 148Apps wrote \"Fantastic, simple, fun, wonderful game. Very unexpected but very much appreciated. Easily one of my favorite games thus far for the iPhone.\n\n\"Blue Defense: Second Wave!\" has a Metacritic score of 85% based on 7 critic reviews.\n\nAppSmile said \"Following in the style of the original \"Blue Defense\", \"Second Wave\" offers some additional control methods and a bunch of game modes to keep you busy as you blast invading forces and climb the leaderboards. \" NoDPad wrote \"As a sequel, Blue Defense: Second Wave captures everything that was great about the first game, refines it, builds upon it, ups the ante manifold. \" 148Apps said \"It's just hard to come up with a list of complaints about this game, because of how well made it is. \"Blue Defense: Second Wave\" is original, intense, addictive, and most of all, fun. Fan of action games on iOS deserve to give this game a shot. \" AppSpy said \"\"Blue Defense: Second Wave!\" is a great sequel to what was already a great title and while the tilt controls may be a bit gimmicky, the gameplay is almost second to none. \" Touchgen said \"A brilliant game to play for that ten minute break, or on the bus. It lacks long term appeal due to both being so intense, and because there are too many modes and choices to make. \" Multiplayer.it wrote \"Although way better than the previous chapter, \"Blue Defense: Second Wave!\" is certainly less ambitious than \"Red Conquest\". It must be said though that even if the game lacks any real additional mode, plot or multiplayer experience, the new units and the deeper control system will satisfy any hardcore gamer that thought the first \"Blue Defense\" was too easy. \" Pocket Gamer UK said \"Blue Defense: Second Wave! is amusing when played to fill a free minute or two, but it lacks the depth needed to encourage extended play. \"\n\nIGN said \"This is a great little space shooter for $2. I like the weapon upgrades and different formations. The game is a challenge when it comes to beating the clock, perhaps too much of a challenge that it closes off parts of the game. Still, it's a worthy addition to your shooter library.\"\n"}
{"id": "18935611", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18935611", "title": "Capitol Steps", "text": "Capitol Steps\n\nThe Capitol Steps are an American political-satire group which has been performing since 1981. Most of the Capitol Steps' material parodies well-known contemporary songs, usually introduced with a short skit. The songs are interspersed with other routines, including a spoonerism routine (\"Lirty Dies\") near the end of each performance with innuendoes about recent scandals. They have released over 40 albums, primarily song parodies. Originally consisting of congressional staffers who performed around Washington, D.C., the troupe is now primarily made up of professional actors and singers. The Capitol Steps have performed on PBS, public radio and in small- and medium-size venues around the United States.\n\nIn 1981, three Republican congressional staffers (Bill Strauss, Elaina Newport, and Jim Aidala) used their spare time at the Subcommittee on Energy, Nuclear Proliferation, and Government Processes of the Senate Committee of Governmental Affairs to write and sing parodies of current events. Joined by fellow Republican Senate staffers Nancy Baskin, Barbie Granzow and Dave Nichols, they decided on a Christmas show as their first performance while continuing to work full-time as congressional staffers. They chose \"The Capitol Steps\" as their group name because of a sex scandal earlier that year in which Congressman John Jenrette had sex with his wife, Rita, on the steps of the Capitol Building.\n\nTheir first show was a December 11, 1981 Christmas party for the Senate Foreign Relations Committee. The performers, considering the show a success, performed the same songs several more times that month. In 1982, the group expanded to include House staffers and Democrats. Despite being predominantly Republican, they tried to make their shows bipartisan with a roughly-even mix of songs lampooning Democrats and Republicans. Although the group attracted media interest at the time, they refused interview requests out of concern that their jobs could be endangered by press coverage and their behavior might affect Strauss and Newport's subcommittee chair Charles H. Percy.\n\nIn February 1983, the Capitol Steps began to perform monthly at the Shoreham Hotel and became open to publicity for the first time. They received a favorable review in the \"Washington Post\", and their performances were successful. In November 1984, they performed at Percy's election-night party; during the party they learned that the senator had lost the election, and Strauss and Newport would lose their jobs with him. Shortly afterwards, the Capitol Steps became a professional group and recorded their first album: \"Capitol Steps Live! at the Shoreham\". In the fall of 1986 the Capitol Steps began performing on a regular basis at Chelsea's Cabaret in the Georgetown area.\n\nThree years later, the group decided to quit their full-time jobs. At this time, they included David Gencarelli, Richard Paul, Anne Hill, Ann Schmitt, Brian Ash, and Mike Loomis; all except Loomis and Gencarelli were still with the group in 2012 with Newport. In September 1988, the Capitol Steps performed at the White House for an audience which included President Ronald Reagan, his wife Nancy, and hundreds of members of Congress. Through an aide, Reagan asked the group to perform songs poking fun at him; they obliged, and the president enjoyed the show. The Capitol Steps released five albums during Reagan's two presidential terms, including \"Thank God I'm A Contra Boy\", \"We Arm the World\", and \"Workin' 9 to 10\".\n\nThe Capitol Steps expanded their repertoire of material to include international and foreign policy affairs (such as the United States invasion of Panama) and local gaffes (such as George Herbert Walker Bush's recognition of September 7 as Pearl Harbor Day) after Bush's 1988 election. The group became known for parodying Vice President Dan Quayle, particularly after Quayle's infamous correction of a child's spelling of \"potato\" by telling him to add a final \"-e\".\n\nThe Capitol Steps released six albums during the elder Bush's presidency, including \"Stand By Your Dan\", \"76 Bad Loans\", and \"Georgie on My Mind\", and performed several times at the White House. On three occasions, the president accepted the group's invitation to sing songs poking fun at himself with them onstage.\n\nBefore the Lewinsky scandal, Bill Clinton's administration provided fodder for new songs and albums and a variety of personalities who were easy to exaggerate: the easygoing Clinton and the First Lady, Hillary, Vice-President Al Gore and several Surgeon General Joycelyn Elders, who had suggested that masturbation could be a useful part of a comprehensive sex-education curriculum.\n\nIn 1994, the Capitol Steps performed at the White House for Clinton and Gore.\n\nThe 2000 presidential election yielded the pre-election \"I Want a Brand New Pair of Candidates\" and several other songs about the aborted recount.\n\nThe popular impression of George W. Bush's intellect, fed by his frequent grammatical errors in speeches, allowed the Capitol Steps to reuse much Dan Quayle material. After the events of September 11, 2001, jokes aimed at the president or American politics no longer seemed appropriate to the general public. The group cancelled most of their performances for the next several weeks, performing an edited show at a nightclub on September 15. It was successful, and they soon found new material that people would find funny in October 2001. The group poked fun at the improved national view of Bush and at figures who were becoming more relevant to the American public, including New York Mayor Rudy Giuliani, British Prime Minister Tony Blair, and French President Jacques Chirac.\n\nHeightened security nationwide soon became a popular subject for the Capitol Steps and other comedians in the wake of media reports that travelers were being questioned in airports for having powdered sugar from a donut on their clothing. By the end of the year, the group was poking fun at terrorists.\n\nIn 2002 and 2003, their material lampooned SUVs and their drivers, Hans Blix, the collapse of Enron, the standoff with Saddam Hussein, Condoleezza Rice, Democratic hopefuls for the 2004 presidential nomination, the capture of Saddam Hussein, same-sex weddings, the Kobe Bryant trial, and the California gubernatorial recall election (in which they reused \"The Fondler\"—a Clinton-era parody of \"The Wanderer\"—with Arnold Schwarzenegger as the target). Since 2004 the Capitol Steps have remained topical with their parodies, releasing songs about the marriage of Prince Charles and Camilla Parker Bowles, U.S. immigration-reform-law proposals, and the Tom DeLay scandals.\nOn December 18, 2007, group co-founder Bill Strauss died at his home in McLean, Virginia of pancreatic cancer.\n\nThey released several albums during the Obama administration, including \"Mock the Vote\", \"How to Succeed in Congress without Really Lying\", \"Fiscal Shades of Gray\", \"Take the Money and Run for President\", \"Desperate Housemembers\", \"Liberal Shop of Horrors\", and \"Obama Mia\".\n\nThey released \"Orange Is the New Barack\" in 2017.\n\nIn 2008, Mark Eaton stated they had booked over 700 shows. As of 2017, the Capitol Steps had multiple casts, with 24 cast members:\n\n\nAs of 2017 the group also has five pianists:\n\nThe group performs public and private shows throughout the country, and appears at the Ronald Reagan Building and International Trade Center in Washington, D.C. every Friday and Saturday at 7:30 p.m. year-round.\n\nSince their first album in 1984, the Capitol Steps have released a new recording of their songs, parodies, and sketches at least once a year (usually in the late spring). The group has also released holiday recordings in 1989, 1993 and 2006. A 2001 \"special high school release\", revised and re-released in 2005, is made up of songs written for participants of the National Young Leaders Conference in Washington, at which the group has performed. Their 20th-anniversary book included a CD retrospective of their work.\n\n\nThe group released \"Ronald the Red-Faced Reagan\" for the 1987 holidays and \"From Yankee Doodle to Pander Bear\", a history of American political satire, early in Bill Clinton's first term.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5077701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5077701", "title": "Clown society", "text": "Clown society\n\nClown society is a term used in anthropology and sociology for an organization of comedic entertainers (Heyoka or \"clowns\") who have a formalized role in a culture or society.\n\nSometimes clown societies have a sacred role, to represent a trickster character in religious ceremonies. Other times the purpose served by members of a clown society is only to parody excessive seriousness, or to deflate pomposity.\n\nIn the sense of how clowns function in their culture:\n\nMembers of a clown society may dress in a special costume reserved for clowns, which is often a ridiculously extreme or improper form of normal dress. Some members paint their body with horizontal black and white stripes, which represent a skeleton.\n\nIn the case of the Zuni clown society of the Pueblo Indians, \"one is initiated into the Ne'wekwe order by a ritual of filth-eating\" where \"mud are smeared on the body for the clown performance, and parts of the performance may consist of sporting with mud, smearing and daubing it, or drinking and pouring it onto one another\".\nThe sacred clown and his apparently antisocial behavior is condoned in Indian ceremonies.\n\nWhile in their costume, clowns have special permission from their society to parody or criticize defective aspects of their own culture. They are always required to be funny. Other persons living within the same culture may recognize a clown when they see one, but seldom consciously understand what the clowns do for their society. The typical explanation is \"He's just a funny man.\"\n\nIn the case of the jester at the English Royal Court with his cap of bells and pig's bladder stick he was allowed to make fun of, be indelicate and sometimes downright rude to members of the royal family and their entourage without fear of reprisal.\n\nClown societies usually train new members to become clowns. The training normally takes place by an apprentice system, although there may be some rote schooling as well. Sometimes the training is improvisational comedy, but usually a clown society trains members in well known forms of costume, pantomime, song, dance, and common visual gags. Occasionally these include a scripted performance, or skit, which is part of a standard repertoire that \"never gets old,\" and is expected by members of the culture that the clown society is part of.\n\nIn Native North America. humor assumes \"a sacred position within ceremonials\"; examples are found in Trickster traditions, Pueblo clown societies, Cherokee \"Booger\" dances, and aspects of the Northwest Coast Potlatch. Humor is a fundamental aspect of Native American life, and has many purposes related to sacred rituals and social cohesion.\n\n\nA \"clown society\" is different from, but closely related to a school for comedians. Comedians serve many of the same social functions of parody and social criticism, and also embody the role of the trickster, but a comedian usually only uses slightly exaggerated mannerisms to show that he/she is joking. Comedians who are not also clowns do not wear a blatantly outrageous or formalized costume. Also, a \"comedian\" has to take personal responsibility for his/her humour and its consequences, whereas a person in clown-costume has some protection from reprisal.\nAs a general rule, a \"comedian\" says funny things, a \"comic\" does funny things, and a \"clown\" does things funny.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19699574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19699574", "title": "Count Smokula", "text": "Count Smokula\n\nCount Smokula is a comedic fictional character created and portrayed by Robert \"Smokey\" Miles. He has made numerous live appearances, roles in movies, TV shows and internet videos.\n\nAs imagined by Miles, Count Smokula is a 496-year-old accordion-playing vampire with a cape and fez from the vaguely Eastern-European nation of Smokesylvania. He has been described as \"Bela Lugosi-meets-Jackie Mason\" and as \"a sort of Yiddish Dracula, who plays the accordion and exhibits the longest tongue this side of Gene Simmons of KISS\". The Count has a thick Smokesylvanian accent (he plays the \"sqveezebox\" and loves \"to rock like you vouldn't believe it\"). Music is his first love and the Count Smokula Orchestra started up about 300 years ago in Glipsch, Smokesylvania where he was greatly influenced by Shnotta Shmulevitz, Smokesylvania's most famous singer. But he definitely doesn't suck - as he says \"I gave up fangs and blood 300 years ago, my doctor told me too much cholesterol\". He subscribes to a belief in Smokulism, a \"voild vide\" faith revealed to the Count one sleepless night in 1997 after \"ingesting a rather large vegetarian pizza in the presence of the Russian Madonna\". It is a way of raising ones thoughts up from the dirt and down from the clouds to live in the world as it is, and this National Belief System of Smokesylvania can be achieved by just paying $10 for a certificate to become a true Smokulist.\n\nAt an indefinite date, the Count left Smokesylvania (or rather, it left him since he tells us they moved the country stone-by-stone to the South Pacific since \"the veather vas too inclement\") for Hollywood, California where he planned to make a fortune as a \"public excess show host\" so he could restore the glory of Smokesylvania.\n\nThe Count has been a longtime regular at the annual Doo Dah Parade in Pasadena, the counter-culture answer to the more staid Rose Parade, where he is a familiar and often photographed figure. The Count is one of a number of odd characters who show up for this irreverent and wacky event - to quote him “It’s got to be a bit irregular to be the true Doo Dah” and besides “There’s nothing else vorthvhile in January” He even competed for Queen a few times - a process likened to \"a cross between the Miss America pageant and “The Gong Show\".\n\nThe Count got his start in the Los Angeles underground scene, often performing at burlesque shows, so it is not surprising that he has a special affinity for burlesque and strippers. His relationship with the burlesque revival group, the Fishnet Floozys, has made him MC at a number of their shows in Los Angeles and Hollywood and hosting the \"Count Smokula Burlesque Review\". Or you might find him as MC for the \"Burlesque Cabaret\" at the \"Red Door Gallery\" in Phoenix, or as the host of Shimmy Magazine's all-star fundraiser in Los Angeles, or maybe performing at the \"Los Angeles Exotica Burlesque\". If there are strippers around, the Count is bound to be near, even if it means trekking out to the Mojave Desert near Route 66 for the annual Miss Exotic World Pageant at the Exotic World Burlesque Museum run by former exotic dancer Dixie Evans.\n\nCount Smokula has had a long association with independent cult film producer Troma Films, creator of films such as The Toxic Avenger and Blood Sucking Freaks. As the Count has said \"When watching a Troma movie, you must not only suspend your disbelief: you must lock it up in a small iron crate and torture it.\" The Count has appeared several times at the TromaDance Film Festival in Park City, Utah, the camp version of the Sundance Film Festival. He also composed the Official TromaDance Theme Song introduced at TromaDance 2005. More recently, the Count was seen at the American Film Market (AFM) event in Santa Monica, California in company with Troma founder Lloyd Kaufman to celebrate the 10th anniversary of TromaDance. The appearance made the front page of the November 7, 2008 edition of The Hollywood Reporter.\n\nHe has even ventured off to the U.S. Naval Station at Guantanamo where he was the Ringmaster of the Vamphear Circus in April 2006 featuring opera clown Christina Linhardt, Hillel aka Mr. Balloonman, stilt walker and fire eater Philip Solomon and aerialist Brandy Wirtz. A highlight of the show was his rendition of his own \"Guantanamo Bay Theme Song\".\nThe trip is the subject of the 2013 short documentary \"Guantanamo Circus\" by Christina Linhardt and Michael L. Rose.\n\nIn 1996, Count Smokula got his start on underground fame with his own cult Public-access television cable TV show \"The Count Smokula Show\" (\"the greatest talk show in the voild\"). He also hosted the \"Freak of the Week\" segments for \"Troma's Edge TV\" which had guests who swallowed swords, ate fire and devoured light bulbs. A further search for such abilities led to the first international episode at the Cannes Film Festival in May 2000 with co-host Shelley Michelle. Count Smokula was also a \"date\" on the \"Singers need love too\" episode of TV show \"Blind Date\" (March 2005) and almost a superhero on the Sci Fi Channel reality show \"Who Wants to be a Superhero?\". He didn't quite make the cut on the show's pilot episode (July 2006).\n\nAs a film actor, the Count has appeared in some memorably named flicks including the 2004 epic \"Tales from the Crapper\" (filmed in three countries, over three years, with six directors, 15 writers, and a cast of hundreds) with Julie Strain. and the \"Coming Soon\" \"Curse of the Black Pussycat\" starring Rena Riffel.\n\nIt is on the Internet that the Count really shines. With YouTube and other video services, the Internet has become the modern era's version of vaudeville and Count Smokula is a classic vaudeville persona. A recent search of YouTube videos shows 71 listings for The Count. One of his videos, \"Count Smokula - Zombie\", has over 50,000 views, and his political satire \"Sarah Palin in 'Moose on the loose'\" may end up with even more.\n\nCount Smokula is a musician and singer, and as such has hosted and performed at the Rock City News Music Awards for many years He was also one of the \"three days of accordions\" performers at the 2008 Los Angeles Accordion Festival. And he is most likely the oldest member of the Rockabilly Hall of Fame. As a songwriter, Count Smokula has composed the soundtracks for Troma Entertainment movies \"All the Love You Cannes!\" (2002) and \"Tales from the Crapper\" (2004) as well as the 2006 classics \"Vampira: The Movie\" and \"\".\n\nAt the 13th Annual Los Angeles Music Awards in 2003, the Count was given the award for Comedy Album of the Year for his CD \"Authentic Sounds of Smokesylvania\". He can also be heard on the 2006 \"Poultrygeist: Night Of The Chicken Dead\" CD produced by Troma Entertainment and his number \"Transylbearian Woods\" is part of the 2005 CD \"30!!! Years Bear Family Records\".\n"}
{"id": "5427035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5427035", "title": "Dead Romance", "text": "Dead Romance\n\nDead Romance is an original novel by Lawrence Miles, originally published as part of the Virgin New Adventures series. The New Adventures were a spin-off from the long-running British science fiction television series \"Doctor Who\". Though part of the sequence of stories that featured the fictional archaeologist Bernice Summerfield, this was released as something of a standalone, and she is not in it. The main character and narrator Christine Summerfield are not connected to her in any way. A former New Adventures Seventh Doctor companion, Chris Cwej, does appear. The Seventh Doctor briefly appears as \"the Evil Renegade\" in Chris's tampered memories.\n\nAlmost the entirety of the book is set within a bottle universe. This concept is most fully explored in Miles's two-book cycle \"\".\n\nChristine Summerfield reappears as Cousin Eliza in the Faction Paradox audio plays (also by Miles), voiced by Emma Kilbey.\n\nA second edition of \"Dead Romance\" was published by Mad Norwegian Press in 2004. This contained some minor alterations which made the book more consistent with Miles's later Faction Paradox mythos.\n\nThe novel is partly an exploration of Miles's \"bottle universe\" concept that places Virgin Publishing's Virgin New Adventures series within a bottle universe inside the BBC Books Eighth Doctor Adventures universe (and by extension these bottles are within a larger one containing all televised serials). This concept is most fully explored in Miles's two-book cycle \"\".\n\nThis idea was never followed up on in any future novels and was abandoned, with the idea of the book series's being in bottle universes inside each other being retconed in the reprint with Lawrence Miles himself stating in a foreword to the Mad Norwegian Press edition that this was a bad idea and was rightfully ignored\n\nThe book is critically acclaimed. \"Doctor Who\" analyst Elizabeth Sandifer called it \"the best Lawrence Miles novel ever. Possibly the best \"Doctor Who\"-related novel ever.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2641839", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2641839", "title": "Directors Guild of Canada", "text": "Directors Guild of Canada\n\nThe Directors Guild of Canada (DGC) is a Canadian labour union, founded in 1962, which represents more than 4,800 professionals from 48 different occupations in the Canadian film and television industry. The DGC represents directors, editors, assistant directors, location managers, production assistants and others.\n\nThe \"DGC\" has district councils in the following provinces; British Columbia, Alberta, Sakatchewan, Manitoba, Ontario, Quebec and the Atlantic. However, in Quebec certain positions are represented by other unions such as IATSE 514 and the Quebec union \"AQTIS\". Each district council has written its own specific Standard Agreement to represent its members.\n\nThe National Office for the Directors Guild of Canada is located on Peter Street, Toronto, Ontario.\n\nThe Directors Guild of Canada hosts an annual awards ceremony recognizing achievement in directing, production design, picture and sound editing.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20376898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20376898", "title": "Distributed transmission system", "text": "Distributed transmission system\n\nIn North American digital terrestrial television broadcasting, a distributed transmission system (DTS or DTx) is a form of single-frequency network in which a single broadcast signal is fed via microwave, landline, or communications satellite to multiple synchronised terrestrial radio transmitter sites. The signal is then simultaneously broadcast on the same frequency in different overlapping portions of the same coverage area, effectively combining many small transmitters to generate a broadcast area rivalling that of one large transmitter or to fill gaps in coverage due to terrain or localised obstacles.\n\nWhile the idea of a single-frequency network of multiple transmitters broadcasting the same programming on the same channel from multiple transmitter sites is not a new concept, the ATSC digital television standard in use in North America was not designed for this mode of operation and was poorly adapted to these applications. The restrictive timing requirements and poor multipath interference handling of early ATSC implementations would have precluded multiple synchronous transmitters on the same frequency at the time of the first wide-scale commercial ATSC deployment in 1998; these restrictions eased somewhat as receiver design advanced in subsequent years. By 2004, technology existed to provide digital television receivers with the means to detect static (not mobile or changing) multipath interference (subject to certain timing constraints) and compensate for its effects on the digital signal.\n\nTests have been run by various individual broadcasters or broadcast groups, including the Metropolitan Television Alliance (MTVA, a consortium of New York city television stations). A series of initial tests involving four distributed transmission sites and over 100 test measurement sites in NYC and New Jersey were completed in June 2008, along with smaller-scale tests in New York in 2007. The New York market is uniquely problematic for multipath reception due to the large number of man-made obstacles which prevent adequate digital coverage of the entire city from the main broadcast facilities atop the Empire State Building. (The proposed 1776-foot Freedom Tower has not yet been constructed, and the 2009 US DTV transition has already been completed.)\n\nTo the receiver, a signal from a single-frequency network appears as a single broadcast with strong multipath interference; in the worst case, it is detected as a main signal and a reflection both of equal strength as signals arrive from multiple transmitters to the same intermediate location at slightly different times.\n\nThe ATSC standard used for digital television in North America, unlike the DVB-T standard in Europe and other nations, uses 8VSB instead of OFDM—a modulation which allowed a station to transmit at lower peak power levels, but which historically has been far inferior in handling multipath reflections and RF interference.\n\nThe first widespread commercial deployment of US ATSC digital television began in 1998, with the first early adopters being stations in the largest markets (including New York city, served by transmitters atop the World Trade Center). Digital receivers of this era, while expensive, were poorly equipped to deal with reflected signals—a severe drawback in urbanised environments. Later generations of receiver design significantly mitigated these limitations; by 2004 technology existed to build receivers capable of detecting and compensating for static multipath interference conditions where a single echo was 10 dB weaker (within a 30 microsecond time difference) or the same strength (the worst case, but within a 12 microsecond range).\n\nIf the transmitters could be kept at sufficiently precise synchronisation and sufficiently close geographical spacing to operate within these limits, a single-frequency network using the new receiver design would be possible even with the existing North American ATSC digital broadcast standards.\n\nTests by Pennsylvania State University public educational WPSX-TV (now WPSU-TV) were initially made in 2003 WPSU was in analog a VHF 3 station which serves State College, Pennsylvania from a distant transmitter which must also cover Johnstown and Altoona. As a digital station, WSPU had used a large UHF 15 transmitter at the location of the original low-VHF broadcast tower, leading to localised problems with terrain shielding which interfered with UHF reception in State College itself. Relocation of the main transmitter would have interfered with the station's ability to serve the other two communities. Addition of a small (50 kW) synchronised digital TV transmitter in State College, on the same frequency as the main UHF 15 signal, proved a means to improve reception; further improvements would be possible by adding small co-channel 50 kW transmitters in each community to be served.\n\nATSC released standards on September 25, 2004 as guidance on the design of multiple transmitters, single frequency networks and multiple frequency networks. The new 2004 standards included:\n\nTechnical issues addressed included that of synchronization between transmitters (GPS was used to supply a 1 Hz and a 10 MHz reference frequency, as well as timing information) and precise control of transmitted frequencies (to within 1 Hz). Identification for each individual transmitter needed to be embedded in the signal for troubleshooting purposes, yet the main data stream on every synchronised transmitter must be identical; this is done by adding a second, low bit rate spread spectrum signal 27–30 dB weaker than the main signal. As this \"watermark\" identifier is buried under the stronger main signal, multiple repetitions of this same identifier could be received and summed in order to provide a readable version of the watermark to broadcast technicians. A standard receiver, meanwhile, would see the same signal from all transmitters by design.\n\nThe generation of non-MPEG data carried as part of the transport layer (such as the position of transmitted frame sync, or the initial state of trellis encoding devices) would also have to be matched exactly between every synchronized transmitter. Even though this data is discarded after the received signal is demodulated, any mismatch could create interference between the various co-channel signals. An extra “operations and maintenance” distributed transmission packet (OMP, packet identifier PID:0x1FFA) would need to be added to the ATSC data at the studio and used to control various parameters needed for configuration and synchronization of the individual transmitters.\n\nThe location, directional pattern and power levels for each of the transmitters would also have to be very carefully chosen, as the ATSC system is subject to very strict limits on the maximum time difference between arrival of multiple versions of the same signal at the receiver. In problem reception areas, significant improvements could be obtained but careful design would be required to operate multiple co-channel transmitters without destructive interference.\n\nFurther tests run by Telemundo owned-and-operated station WNJU-TV, Ion TV and broadcast tower owner Richland Towers using one main New Jersey transmitter and a Times Square fill-in DTS secondary transmitter in 2007 indicated that, of fifteen test sites for reception of the station in New York city, 40% would obtain a substantial improvement in signal by the addition of a second transmitter to the existing station, while all but one would receive at least the same signal quality as was observed without a distributed transmission system. New York's Metropolitan Television Alliance was to run similar tests, but on a larger scale, in 2007 and 2008.\n\nWhile the US Federal Communications Commission has supported DTS in principle since 2004, an FCC call for public comment at the end of 2005 garnered a wide spectrum of responses in early 2006, ranging from strong support by groups such as the National Association of Broadcasters to widespread opposition by groups who advocate the free use of \"white spaces\" (unused broadcast frequencies) for non-broadcast purposes such as wireless data.\n\nThe FCC granted six-month special technical authority to WTVE Reading, Pennsylvania in December 2006, allowing it to operate a distributed transmission system on an experimental basis but did not authorise the systems on any permanent, licensed basis at that time.\n\nAn FCC-sponsored test market exercise in Wilmington, North Carolina shut down all analogue full-power commercial broadcasts at noon on September 8, 2008. While a large number of the resulting calls from viewers were straightforward questions about installation of antennas and converters, or the need to scan for channels before being able to watch digital television, hundreds more were about a more intractable problem. Viewers of longtime full-power low-VHF broadcasters like WECT (NBC 6 Wilmington), a signal which in its analogue form reached to the edge of Myrtle Beach, could no longer receive the station - even with the converter and proper antenna installation. The move to UHF 44 and a different transmitter site had substantially reduced WECT's coverage area and, for many who for many years were on the fringes of the analogue NBC 6 signal, WECT was no more.\n\nOn November 7, 2008 the FCC issued an order approving the use of distributed transmission systems by terrestrial DTV broadcasters, subject to various restrictions. This allows broadcasters to apply for DTS facilities to cover the area once covered by analogue TV, while not expanding coverage beyond the existing analogue coverage area. It also prohibits a broadcaster \"cherry picking\" a coverage area in such a way as to cover urban areas while leaving rural viewers with no signal.\n\nThis waiver has come too late to allow the newly proposed DTS facilities to be constructed and operational before the federally mandated 2009 analogue shutoff.\n\nThe Consumer Electronics Association and CTIA proposed in December 2009 to force all stations to use this method, so that the companies they represent could use the remaining space in the TV band for mobile broadband. Unlike the digital television transition in the United States, they do not propose that stations be forced to pay for it however, much like the 2 GHz broadcast auxiliary service was forced to move by the FCC, but only after the beneficiary (Sprint Nextel) compensated broadcasters for the regulatory taking.\n\nIn Puerto Rico, Spanish language independent WSTE 7 \"Super Siete\" currently operates multiple analogue transmitters on the same frequency to cover various portions of the same island; this system has shown limitations due to interference between the transmitters if all are operational simultaneously. Use of a properly synchronised digital DTS could help to reduce this interference.\n\nIn Pennsylvania, independent WTVE is licensed to serve Reading even though its primary audience is in Philadelphia. A distributed transmission system now allows it to tailor its coverage area to improve coverage in areas where its signal is currently marginal.\n\nIn Virginia public television WVPT/WVPY operate a combined total of five additional on-channel synchronised transmitters to fill areas blocked by mountains from two main VHF/UHF transmitters; a set of US$100,000 synchronised digital transmitters can replace service from the same number of conventional analogue broadcast translators and also enable overnight datacasting of instructional materials to the area's 188 schools.\n\nIn New Mexico, Telemundo affiliate KTDO proposes DTS as a means of pairing a low-power DTV facility currently operating in its community of license (Las Cruces) with a second facility atop a mountain overlooking El Paso, Texas in order to reach a wider audience.\n\nIn Missouri, FOX affiliate KRBK operates a DTS as a way to service the Springfield, Missouri market from 5 transmission points based around the Springfield DMA. This system went on air in late 2011, and is still being revised today.\n\nIn Alaska, Anchorage MyTV affiliate KYES-TV operates with limited resources and equipment, covering a large and sparsely populated area with many small broadcast translator stations. While broadcast signal synchronization is not an issue (as the overlap between signals falls entirely into unpopulated areas), the ability to re-use multiple small transmitters may allow the station to avoid the cost of building one large, expensive main transmitter for its digital signal.\n\n"}
{"id": "1015657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1015657", "title": "Dragon Age: Origins", "text": "Dragon Age: Origins\n\nDragon Age: Origins is a role-playing game developed by BioWare and published by Electronic Arts. It is the first game in the \"Dragon Age\" franchise, and was released for Microsoft Windows, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 in November 2009, and for Mac OS X in December 2009. Set in the fictional kingdom of Ferelden during a period of civil strife, the game puts the player in the role of a warrior, mage, or rogue coming from an elven, human, or dwarven background. The player character is recruited into the Grey Wardens, an ancient order that stands against demonic forces known as \"Darkspawn\", and is tasked with defeating the Archdemon that commands them and ending their invasion. The game is played from a third-person perspective that can be shifted to a top-down perspective. Throughout the game, players encounter various companions, who play major roles in the game's plot and gameplay.\n\nBioWare described \"Dragon Age: Origins\" as a \"dark heroic fantasy\" set in a unique world, and a spiritual successor to their previous \"Baldur's Gate\" and \"Neverwinter Nights\" franchises. Its setting was inspired by \"The Lord of the Rings\" and \"A Song of Ice & Fire\", and was described by BioWare as a mix between high fantasy and low fantasy. Development of the game began in 2002 and BioWare employed more than 144 voice-actors, and hired Inon Zur to compose the game's music. The development of the game's console versions was outsourced to Edge of Reality.\n\n\"Origins\" received critical acclaim upon release, with praise mostly directed at its story, setting, characters, music and combat system. It sold more than 3.2 million copies and 1 million pieces of downloadable content. Its multiple year-end accolades included Game of the Year and Best Role-playing awards from several gaming publications. BioWare released several instances of downloadable content after the game's initial launch, an expansion pack for the game titled \"\" in March 2010, and two sequels, \"Dragon Age II\" and \"\", were released in 2011 and 2014 respectively.\n\n\"Dragon Age: Origins\" is a role-playing game. The player is a Grey Warden, part of an order of elite fighters, whose task is to defeat the Archdemon and save the world from a disastrous event called the Blight. Players create their own Grey Warden character, customizing gender and appearance as well as choosing a race and class. The available classes are warriors, who perform strong physical attacks; rogues, who carry out stealth attacks and steal items from other characters; and mages, who cast spells on enemies, create combo spells, and support other party members. The three choices of race are human, elf, and dwarf. The combination of class and race determines which of six different origin stories the player experiences: Dalish Elf, Dwarf Commoner, City Elf, Mage, Human Noble, or Dwarf Noble. This affects the way other in-game characters perceive the player's character; for instance, a Dwarven Commoner would receive hatred and discrimination from other dwarves. However, all classes follow the same plot after the completion of the origin story.\n\nDuring gameplay, the player encounters a variety of enemies, including giant spiders, darkspawn, ghosts, walking trees, and dragons. They also recruit companions, who accompany them and provide assistance in battle. These companions are normally controlled by artificial intelligence, with behaviour that the player can adjust through the \"Tactics\" menu, but the player also has the option to switch between characters and is able to issue orders to them in real-time or pause the game to queue up actions. Companions who are not in the player's active party stay in the base camp, a hub where the player can talk to their party members as well as purchase new weapons, armour, and gear. In addition to the main story, the player can learn more about the world of Thedas by collecting the codexes scattered throughout the game.\n\nUsing a third-person perspective, the combat in \"Origins\" is largely similar to BioWare's previous game, \"\". The player and any companions in their party engage in combat with the weapons they have equipped when the player targets or is noticed by a hostile enemy. Players can swap weapons and perform special attacks during combat, but most of these attacks have a recharge time. The point of view can be shifted from the third person view to a top-down view, where friendly and hostile units are labelled with different colours to distinguish them. At the end of a battle the characters' health and stamina, which powers a character's skills, are automatically refilled. When an enemy is defeated, the player collects any items or loot from its corpse.\n\nThe player can level up their Warden character by earning experience points through completing quests and defeating enemies. Each time the player levels up, they receive three points to spend on the character's six attributes. Strength inflicts more damage, dexterity helps evade attacks more often, willpower increases stamina, magic increases spell damage or magic defence, cunning improves combat tactics, and constitution helps withstand attacks. Special skills, which are divided into four different aspects for each class, and specialization options, which offer class-specific skills, can also be unlocked by levelling up.\n\nThe player can talk and interact with both party members and other non-playable characters. A dialogue tree offers several dialogue options for the player to select. Through conversation, the player can unlock unique quests and dialogue revealing the lore of \"Dragon Age\". It can also be used to persuade or intimidate other characters. The player often must choose between morally ambiguous options, which result in consequences that affect the game's world and progression and can even lead to the death of a potential companion. Companions react to the player's choices through an \"approval system\". When they dislike or object to the player's decisions, their approval drops, which can result in a companion leaving the party or even attacking the Warden. Approval points can also be influenced by gifts, which will improve any companion's approval but are each intended for a specific companion. Some gifts, if given to the right character, start a cutscene and can even unlock a quest. A high approval rating improves a companion's morale and gives bonuses to their combat abilities. A significant approval rating also makes it possible for the Warden to pursue a romantic relationship with certain companions. The game's \"interaction reactivity\" system means that the way a player treats one companion affects the approval rating of other companions as well.\n\nThe game is set in Ferelden, one of several countries in the fictional world of Thedas. Demonic creatures called the Darkspawn dwell within the Deep Roads, an underground highway system created by the dwarves long ago, deep beneath the surface of Thedas. Every few hundred years, the Darkspawn swarm the surface world in a movement known as a Blight. Ever since the first Blight, Thedas has relied on the legendary order of warriors known as the Grey Wardens to drive the Darkspawn back. \"Dragon Age: Origins\" begins on the eve of Thedas's fifth Blight.\n\nThedas is a world in which race and class combine to determine social class. Elves are often viewed as second-class citizens by humans, while human nobles are treated with respect. Mages, on the other hand, are cloistered by the Chantry: they have access to the Fade, the unconscious realm that is the home of spirits, and a single lapse in vigilance could cause them to be possessed by demons. Apostate mages, who live outside the Chantry's control, are considered extremely dangerous, and the Chantry has a militant wing, the Templars, to seek them out and subdue them by any means necessary. Dwarves live in the Deep Roads, their kingdom a shadow of what it once was before the first Blight. Their society is rooted in tradition and a rigid caste system.\n\nThe chief protagonist of \"Dragon Age: Origins\" is the player-controlled character, whose biography and combat specialization are determined by the race and class chosen at the start of the game. While the player can choose his or her avatar's first name, the character is usually referred to as \"The Warden\" by other characters and the game's narration.\n\nMany of the game's non-player characters (NPCs) are companion characters, who appear throughout the game and may volunteer their services. Companions include Alistair, a reluctantly heroic Grey Warden with a sarcastic wit; Morrigan, a sultry but cynical dark mage who has little regard for authority or social mores; Leliana, an ex-member of Ferelden's Chantry whose optimistic and virtuous demeanor belies an aptitude for espionage and combat; Sten, a proud but stoic warrior of the militaristic Qunari people who often questions human ways; Oghren, a brutal dwarven warrior whose love of alcohol is only matched by his penchant for violence and loyalty to his friends; Wynne, an Elder Mage of the Circle, a maternal figure to the party and a powerful healer; Zevran, a rakish elven assassin who is fond of treasures, sex and innuendo; and a loyal Mabari War Hound, which the player can name and use for scouting and combat. In the DLC, Shale, a sarcastic Golem with a mild ornithophobia who was a female dwarf in her prior life, is also available.\n\nOutside of companion characters, NPCs significant to the \"Origins\" plot include Duncan, the Grey Warden who recruits the player; King Cailan, Ferelden's naive but courageous leader and son of the legendary King Maric; Queen Anora, Cailan's young, politically-savvy wife, with a commanding personality that is somewhat offset by her ambition and ruthlessness; and Flemeth, Morrigan's mother, who appears to be a harmless old woman, but in truth is an infamous dark witch of Fereldan legend.\n\nThe faceless Darkspawn horde is led by the Archdemon Urthemiel, supposedly one of the Old Gods of the Tevinter Imperium incarnated in the form of a powerful and corrupted dragon with total control over the darkspawn. The game's other main antagonists are Teyrn Loghain Mac Tir, father of Queen Anora, a once-respected war hero gone mad with ambition and paranoia; and Rendon Howe, the amoral and corrupt Arl of Amaranthine who allies with Loghain to further his own ambitions. Loghain can be recruited as a \"secret companion,\" but doing so will cause Alistair to leave the Warden.\n\nOne of six predetermined origin stories begins the game, depending on the player character's race and class. Each story ends with the player leaving with Duncan, the commander of Ferelden's Grey Wardens who, seeking new recruits, selects the player as a potential candidate. The two journey to Ferelden's southern fortress, Ostagar, to join Cailan, the King of Ferelden, and his father-in-law Loghain, a legendary general. The three leaders plan to attack the encroaching Darkspawn to stop a new Blight from overwhelming Ferelden. Duncan senses the influence of an Archdemon, a god-like Dragon that commands the Darkspawn, which makes this the first true Blight in over 400 years. Duncan emphasizes the importance of defeating the Blight before it can gain enough momentum to threaten the rest of Thedas.\n\nDuncan initiates the player into the Grey Wardens via a dangerous ritual called the Joining, which involves imbibing Darkspawn blood. The recipient, if they survive, is granted the powerful Darkspawn essence, the Taint, which gives them a rudimentary connection into their hive mind to sense them. After surviving, the player (now nicknamed \"The Warden\") and fellow Grey Warden, Alistair, are tasked with lighting a beacon at the top of the fortress to signal Loghain's men into charging the Darkspawn horde flank. However, upon arriving, Loghain abandons the battlefield, leaving Cailan, Duncan, and their army to be slain by the Darkspawn, who seize control of Ostagar and begin advancing into southern Ferelden.\n\nThe Warden and Alistair are saved by Flemeth, a powerful witch who lives in a secluded hermitage. Flemeth sends her daughter and apprentice, Morrigan, to accompany the Warden and Alistair in gathering a new army to combat the Archdemon and stop the Blight. Using ancient Grey Warden treaties, the Warden travels across Ferelden to enlist the aid of the Circle of Magi, the Dalish Elves, the Dwarves of Orzammar, and soldiers in Redcliffe loyal to Arl Eamon. In addition, Alistair reveals that he is a bastard son of King Maric Theirin, Cailan's father, making him a contender for the now vacant throne.\n\nMeanwhile, Loghain returns to Ferelden's capital city, Denerim, to inform his daughter, Queen Anora, of Cailan's death. Loghain scapegoats the Grey Wardens for the defeat at Ostagar and demands the deaths of any survivors. While Anora inherits her husband's authority, Loghain quickly declares himself her regent and effectively seizes control of the kingdom, swiftly becoming a brutal and tyrannical ruler determined to retain power. Ferelden's nobility rebel against him, igniting a civil war. This ends in an inconclusive stalemate, allowing the Darkspawn to advance further into Ferelden unopposed.\n\nEamon then calls a Landsmeet among the nobles of Ferelden to rally the kingdom against the Darkspawn, where the Warden or a party member defeats Loghain in a duel. If Alistair defeats Loghain, he will then execute him. Otherwise, the Warden can either have Loghain executed or initiated into the Grey Wardens (which causes Alistair to quit the party and the Wardens). Dependent on this and other past decisions, the Warden then settles who assumes Ferelden's throne (Alistair and/or Anora), with the option of marrying the one of opposite gender if a Human Noble.\n\nThe night before the final battle, the Warden learns that a Grey Warden must slay the Archdemon to prevent it from releasing a demonic essence which finds a new host in the nearest Darkspawn. The essence will be drawn to the Taint, killing the Warden in the process. Morrigan then meets with the Warden and proposes a ritual that will see her conceive a child with a Warden. The Archdemon, upon death, will instead be drawn to the child, born as a demigod with the Taint, sparing the Warden who slays it. Morrigan agrees to conceive the child on the condition that she be allowed to raise it alone. The Warden can accept Morrigan's offer (if male), convince Alistair/Loghain to take part instead, or refuse the proposal (which causes Morrigan to leave the party).\n\nThe next day, the Warden and the newly assembled army of Ferelden gather in Denerim. They repel the Darkspawn horde and finally conquer the Archdemon atop Denerim's highest tower. If the ritual with Morrigan was performed, the Warden slays the Archdemon. If not, they must decide whether they or Alistair/Loghain does so and perishes in the process. The remaining Darkspawn retreat from Denerim, marking the end of the Fifth Blight. The story ends with a ceremony attended by Ferelden citizens, where the Warden and their companions are honoured for saving the kingdom. Lastly, a slideshow epilogue details the ramifications of the Warden's choices, including the future of Ferelden, any rumours, and the fates of his or her companions.\n\n\"Dragon Age: Origins\" was created by the Edmonton studio of BioWare, the developer of \"Neverwinter Nights\" and \"Jade Empire\". Development of the game's first demo began in November 2002. It was officially revealed at E3 2004 as simply \"Dragon Age\" and was re-revealed as \"Dragon Age: Origins\" in July 2008, alongside a new trailer for the game. According to BioWare, they kept any information about the game hidden from the public, to further the game's design and technology. More than 180 people worked on the game, and full-scale production began three years after the game's initial development. The subtitle \"Origins\" was chosen to represent the six origins storyline, BioWare's return to PC role-playing games, and the beginning of a new franchise. \"Origins\" is a spiritual successor to \"Baldur's Gate\" and \"Neverwinter Nights\", as an attempt to build a similar fantasy RPG without any licensing restrictions or issues. The similarities are mostly present in gameplay elements, such as real-time tactical combat; the game does not share the \"Dungeons and Dragons\" setting of the \"Baldur's Gate\" series and is instead set in a period where dragons are prevalent.\n\nDavid Gaider, the lead writer for \"Origins\", built the game's world first before writing the plot. The team chose a \"fantasy\" setting because Dan Tudge, the game's director, thought that BioWare was at its best in the fantasy genre. In the first draft, there were no Darkspawn or Grey Wardens, and mages were not allowed to use magic in cities. There were twelve different origin stories, including Human Commoner and Avvar, a barbarian origin. However, most of them were scrapped for being \"ridiculous\", leading to six stories being finalized. Loghain was the first character to be created, while an Ogre, nicknamed \"Fluffy\", and a human with medium armour were the first enemies designed. The concepts of Alistair and Morrigan were the next to be created, as they play the largest role in the game's plot. Their creation also took far longer than other characters. Morrigan was originally conceived to be similar to Flemeth, speaking whimsically. However, Gaider was not satisfied and decided to completely rewrite her personality. As a result, she was designed as a \"blunt\" person who always resists her mother. Finding a suitable voice actor for Morrigan took the most time of any character. The game's final version features 68,260 lines of dialogue; the quality assurance testers for the game enabled a cheat to automatically skip these cutscenes and dialogues during test runs.\n\nRay Muzyka, co-founder of BioWare, said that the team wanted to try something that would be new but familiar to most players. They hoped that \"Origins\" would redefine the genre to become \"The Lord of the Rings\" of video game franchises. Greg Zeschuk, another co-founder of BioWare, described the fantasy of \"Dragon Age\" as in between the high fantasy of J. R. R. Tolkien's works and the low fantasy of works by George R.R. Martin. The goal was a \"dark heroic fantasy\" that would suit the taste of any fan of the genre. Thus, while the game has the typical races of human, elf, and dwarf, they are slightly altered from the usual nature of the three races, and a new lizard-like race called the Qunari was introduced. Some of the alterations they made included flipping how certain races, like elves, are treated in other fictional worlds. While elves are often described as a race of high prestige in fiction, \"Dragon Age: Origins\" presents them as slaves of humans, labelled as second-class citizens who resent the human race. This extended to the gameplay, where the player can choose to discriminate against other races and can experience discrimination from others based on their choices.\n\nBioWare recognized that non-linear choices are an element unique to video games in the entertainment industry. Zeschuk called the sheer number of choices in the game \"big\" and \"impactful\", and the team designed many of those to be emotional and create a more personal experience for the player. They intentionally avoided adding a karma system, as the choices are designed to be ambiguous, with only the player to judge whether they are good or bad. According to Muzyka, their goal was to make players sympathize with events and characters, connecting with them to feel true emotions. This vision challenged the team to balance many key aspects, such as the amount of dialogue and animation in each cutscene, to create a believable scenario for players.\n\nThe team also hoped to handle romance in a more \"mature\" and \"complicated\" way, with a true reflection on human relationships and reactions rather than \"adolescent titillation\". The game has sex scenes, but no nudity. Muzyka added that it was an artistic choice and a decision made by the team, not the publisher Electronic Arts.\n\nWhile \"Origins\" is a single-player-only game, Muzyka described it as a \"social experience\", considering the narrative and its variety of paths as an integral part of the gameplay. The characters a player meets, items they collect, and quests they receive and complete may be different, leading to a completely different experience. He also considered the ways a player explores the world and discovers new areas as an exploration narrative. As each player had a different experience, they hoped that those players would collaborate to expand upon their knowledge of the world. To that effect, the team built a community site as an online social environment for players to communicate. Players could share stats and automatically generated screenshots with the community.\n\nThe game features an orchestral soundtrack with a choir, used both in-game and during cutscenes. The soundtrack was recorded by the performance of a 44-piece orchestra, recorded twice and merged to sound like an 88-piece orchestra. It was composed by Inon Zur and performed by the Northwest Sinfonia. According to Zur, he intentionally made most of the soundtrack feel \"dark\", combining low brass and bass string instruments with ancient drums to express a feeling that is both heroic and demonic. One of the tracks, \"Leliana's Song\", was composed in under 24 hours. The soundtrack was presented at a panel in the Hollywood Music in Media Interactive Conference in 2009 and was performed as part of the September 26 \"A Night in Fantasia 2009\" concert in Sydney, Australia, by the Eminence Symphony Orchestra.\n\n\"Origins\" contains a large amount of voice acting recorded in the US and the UK. Actors include Tim Russ, Steve Valentine, Kate Mulgrew, Simon Templeman, Mark Rolston, Tim Curry, Adam Howden, Nicola Bertram, and Claudia Black. In total, more than 140 voice actors worked on the game. A large part of these recordings became the ambient dialogue that takes place between non-player characters in the adventuring party, adding to their backstories and lending more credibility to the characters. Mark Darrah, the executive producer of BioWare, described the cast of characters the largest of any of their games at that time and hoped that using celebrities would add a layer of depth and complexity to the characters. The main protagonist is not voice-acted, as the team hoped that players would \"reflect their own inner voice\" when making decisions.\n\nWhile the game was originally intended for PC, a console version was announced in 2008 by gaming magazine \"Game Informer\". Prior to the announcement, Zeschuk suggested that the entire franchise has a \"console future\". The decision was made to bring the game to consoles to introduce it to a wider audience. Mike Laidlaw, the game's lead designer, considered creating the console versions' interface a challenge, as they had to convert the long and complex quickbar from the PC version to a more streamlined interface that could use the same actions with only few button presses. To that end, the team decided to map six different actions together, and allow players to customize the arrangement. Also, the console version does not allow the top-down view possible in the PC version.\n\nThe game was originally set to be released in early 2009 for Microsoft Windows, and later for PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360. The team partnered with Edge of Reality to develop the console versions of the game. However, its release date was pushed to the latter half of that year in order to have a simultaneous launch. BioWare announced that the game would be released on October 20, 2009, but pushed it back again to November 6, 2009, as the team wanted additional time to finalize some last-minute decisions. The PlayStation 3 version was at one point delayed to November 17 but did end up launching alongside the other versions. A Mac version of the game, developed by TransGaming, was released on December 21, 2009.\nIn addition to the standard version, other editions of \"Origins\" were made available for purchase. The Collector's Edition came in a SteelBook with different artwork. Like the standard edition, the Collector's Edition included a redemption code to obtain the \"Stone Prisoner\" and \"Blood Dragon Armor\" DLC for free, but also featured three additional exclusive in-game items, a bonus disc containing a making-of documentary, concept art, trailers, the game's original soundtrack, and a cloth map of Ferelden. The \"Ultimate Edition\", released on October 26, 2010, includes the base game, the \"Awakening\" expansion pack, and all 9 DLC packs.\n\nThe \"Dragon Age Character Creator\" was released on October 13, 2009, allowing players to create a character in advance and import it into the full game upon release. BioWare also released a \"developer-grade\" toolset to allow extensive modification and customization of the game's PC version. Players can use these tools to craft new campaigns, quests, cinematics, and lip-syncing.\n\nOn November 26, 2009, Electronic Arts announced a competition called \"Dragon Age: Warden’s Quest\". Contestants formed groups of four people and competed to adventure through the game's world, with the winning group receiving $12,500. The representatives from Hungary won the contest, followed by a group called Bioware Community, Canada and a group from Poland. On March 9, 2011, Electronic Arts announced that players who pre-ordered \"Darkspore\" would receive a free copy of \"Origins\". In 2012, to celebrate the first anniversary of Electronic Arts' own digital distribution software Origin, the game was made free to download alongside \"\" and \"Spore\" for a limited time. On October 8, 2015, it became free to download again for a limited time as part of Origin's On the House program.\n\nBioWare announced that they would support the game with downloadable content for at least 2 years. The DLC packs are both story-based and content-based, and added in elements that were cut from the base game, such as Shale, the Golem companion. A crossover with \"Mass Effect 2\", an item called the \"Blood Dragon Armor\", is also available for purchase.\n\n\"Dragon Age: Origins\" received critical acclaim from major video game critics upon its release. While the game is considered to be virtually identical across all platforms, differences in user interface, graphical performance, and online content delivery have led the PC version to be reviewed more favorably than the PlayStation 3 and Xbox 360 versions; Metacritic ranks the PC, PlayStation 3, and Xbox 360 versions of the game with scores of 91, 87, and 86, respectively.\n\nThe game's setting was well received by critics. Dave Snider from Giant Bomb thought that the setting felt traditional due to the presence of dwarves and elves, but that the world was beautifully executed. He also appreciated the small touches BioWare added to the world, noting the \"French-tinged accent\" of the Orlesian Empire humans. He added that the six origin stories and their unique dialogue and referencing throughout the game make the world feel cohesive. Kevin VanOrd from GameSpot made similar comments, stating that the new ideas added to a familiar world make it feel original and new. However, Jeff Haynes from IGN said that the origin stories were inconsistent, with missteps that make the world, while \"rich and vivid\", feel less believable. Joe Juba from \"Game Informer\" wrote that the world was well-realized with a deep history, which makes the game addicting, as players can sense their Warden's importance in the world.\n\nThe game's story and characters also received praise. Snider said that the story is driven by the characters and that the choices presented in the game were difficult, making him regret some choices for weeks after completing the game. He added that the game's main quest was well written, and its quality boosted by excellent voice acting; he called the performance of Claudia Black as Morrigan one of the best in the game. VanOrd commended the game's story, saying that it was memorable and crafted with care, successfully making players care about the game's world and characters. He added that the deep character development made every choice \"momentous\". GamesRadar thought that the story and the Warden's appearance felt generic, but that the story became more and more engrossing as it progressed. Nick Tan from Game Revolution liked the banter between companions as a humorous change of pace within the game. Gerald Villoria from GameSpy praised the exclusion of the moral system for making the characters feel more complex. Juba wrote that the story was good but predictable, not straying far from standard fantasy stories. Wesley Yin-Poole from VideoGamer.com called the story memorable, saying that it \"leaves an itch in your mind\", and has attracted players to return to the game \"like an addict seeking a hit of relief.\"\n\nAs for the game's combat, Snider called it streamlined but said that players who do not want to use the pause mechanic would not be able to appreciate the game, as the combat requires both patience and strategy. He liked the game's third-person view more than the top-down view, saying that being able to view the sky made environments feel more complicated, and praised the high difficulty of boss battles, which task players to manage their stamina carefully. His conclusion was that \"Origins\" \"feels like a real throwback to the good old days of PC role-playing epics.\" VanOrd said that the combat system was easily recognizable for players who have played other RPGs developed by BioWare. He added that players can have a lot of fun switching between characters, and agreed that the game had created thrilling boss battles. He praised the choice to have health and stamina replenish immediately after battles, as it sped up combat pace and flow. Tan also commended the combat, finding it a better system than other BioWare RPGs, but disliked the fact that characters can't step into water. Juba praised the amount of space for players to experiment with new skills and abilities, adding that the required focus and attention make combat very satisfying.\n\nThe game's graphics received mixed reviews. VanOrd was not impressed, stating that the environments do not look as good viewed from a top-down perspective, but he praised the art style and some of the game's \"eye-catching\" landmarks. Tan liked that the environments were varied and unique, saying that each level felt \"vast\" and filled with details. Villoria found its visual quality lacking when compared with that of \"Mass Effect 2\", adding that the facial animation can feel wooden at times. However, he found the combat animation rewarding and satisfying. He further criticized the sex sequences as \"off-putting\". Yin-Poole said that the game's graphics were boring and generic, and called the sex scenes \"anti-climatic\" and poorly-executed. Both Villoria and Yin-Poole felt that the six-year development time was too long, considering the game's mediocre graphics.\n\nGamesRadar estimated that there are more than 80 hours of content available in the game. Villoria called the world engaging, and its replay value very high, as players can play the story over and over again with a different origin. Juba agreed, as did Yin-Poole, who added that the way companions react to the player's decisions, as well as the six origin stories, significantly expand the game's longevity.\n\n\"Dragon Age: Origins\" topped Steam's sales chart on November 10, 2009. The \"Digital Deluxe\" version of the game was ranked first place, with the standard edition ranked second. The Xbox 360 version of the game was the ninth-best-selling game in the US according to the NPD Group, selling approximately 362,100 copies. According to John Riccitiello, CEO of Electronic Arts, the company is very satisfied with the sales of \"Origins\"; more than 1 million DLC packs for the game were sold before the end of 2009. In February 2010, Electronic Arts announced that more than 3.2 million copies of the game had been sold.\n\n\"Origins\" gained recognition from several gaming publications for its achievements. The Academy of Interactive Arts & Sciences named it the \"Role-Playing/Massively Multiplayer Game of the Year 2009\". At the 2009 Spike Video Game Awards, \"Dragon Age: Origins\" received the Best PC Game and Best RPG awards. It was chosen as the PC Game of the Year, Best Xbox 360 RPG of the Year, Best Story of the Year, and Best PC Role-Playing Game of the Year by IGN. The game also received Giant Bomb's Best PC Game of 2009 award and Game of the Year 2009 and RPG of the Year awards from U.S. \"PC Gamer\". In 2010, the game was included as one of the titles in the book \"1001 Video Games You Must Play Before You Die\".\n\nAlthough the name \"Origins\" hinted that the game would be a beginning of a new franchise, the team did not expect the game to become successful and had never planned for sequels. Due to its success, the game spawned a \"Dragon Age\" franchise consisting of video games, comics, and novels. The game's sequel, \"Dragon Age II\", was announced on July 9, 2010, with the goal of bringing improved graphics and combat to the franchise. \"Dragon Age II\" is set within a ten-year period and features a new predefined protagonist, Hawke, and a new locale within the \"Dragon Age\" world, the city of Kirkwall. Players are able to transfer save data from \"Dragon Age: Origins\" into the sequel; decisions that the player made during the course of \"Dragon Age: Origins\" are referenced while playing \"Dragon Age II\".\n\nThe third installment of the series, titled \"\", was announced on September 17, 2012. In \"Inquisition\", players take on the role of an Inquisitor and must unite Ferelden and Orlais to defeat an ancient Darkspawn called . The game was released on November 18, 2014, and in addition to the original three gaming platforms, it brought the \"Dragon Age\" franchise to the eighth generation of video game consoles: PlayStation 4 and Xbox One.\n\nA free-to-play mobile game, \"Heroes of Dragon Age\", was released in 2013.\n"}
{"id": "7422533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7422533", "title": "Father Hood", "text": "Father Hood\n\nFather Hood is a 1993 American adventure comedy-drama film directed by Darrell Roodt, and starring Patrick Swayze and Halle Berry.\n\nThe film starts out in front of a prison with two kids waiting for their father to be released. 15 months earlier the kids of small-time crook Jack Charles (Patrick Swayze) are put in a corrupt state-run home called Bigelow Hall when their mother dies of cancer. Jack's 18-year-old teenage daughter Kelly (Sabrina Lloyd) escapes Bigelow by breaking a window and fleeing in the night, and convinces Jack to pick up her 10-year-old younger brother Eddie (Brian Bonsall). While at a custody hearing, Jack realizes what's going on by seeing a line of kids handcuffed and chained together in a line, and decides to break Eddie out of Bigelow. First Jack tries to dump them with his mother in Las Vegas, but she is a gambler and a cheat, so the cops are after her, too. His mother later reminds him that they are his kids and that they're his responsibility. After leaving they go to the Hoover Dam, at Eddie's request, but the police soon arrive. As the police approach the kids, Jack drives his empty car off a cliff, to cause a distraction and plan an escape. He takes the kids to New Orleans with him, where he plans to pull off a big heist that could set them up for life.\n\n\n\"Father Hood\" was shot in Los Angeles, California, Hoover Dam, Arizona-Nevada Border, Las Vegas, Nevada, Rio Medina, Texas, and New Orleans, Louisiana.\n\nThe film was released in North America on August 27, 1993 to generally unfavorable reviews from critics. Rotten Tomatoes currently holds a score of 10% based on 20 reviews, with an average rating of 2.8/10.\n\n\"Father Hood\" opened at No. 15 at the North American box office, with only $1,286,806 on its opening weekend. Its widest release was 643 theaters. By the end of its run, the film has grossed $3,418,141 worldwide.\n\n"}
{"id": "46346481", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46346481", "title": "French Theater of Gustav III", "text": "French Theater of Gustav III\n\nThe French Theater of Gustav III was a French language theater active in Sweden between 1781 and 1792. The French theater company performed both before the Swedish royal court in the theaters of the royal palaces, as well as before the Swedish public in Stockholm. It is known to have played a significant part in the education of the pioneer generation of actors at the Royal Dramatic Theatre.\n\nThe French theater was composed in Paris by Jacques Marie Boutet de Monvel in 1781, when it was engaged by king Gustav III of Sweden to perform before the Swedish royal court. Initially, they performed exclusively for the royal court in the theaters of the royal residences, such as Drottningholm Palace Theatre and Confidencen.\n\nFrom 1783 onward, they also performed before the Swedish public at Bollhuset. The public performances were, in practice, normally visited exclusively by the upper classes of Stockholm, who were able to understand the French language. The French Theater appeared before the public at Bollhuset on Wednesdays and Fridays, and at the royal court whenever they were commanded to. The company were considered of high quality, and performed the latest plays from Paris.\n\nThey shared Bollhuset with the Royal Dramatic Theatre from 1788, but they performed separately and referred to as the \"French Theater\" and the \"Swedish Theater\" respectively. The actors of the French Theater were expected by the king to educate Swedish pupils, and many of the first generation of Swedish actors at the Royal Dramatic Theatre were students of the actors at the French Theater, such as Lars Hjortsberg and Fredrica Löf.\n\nThe French Theater were dissolved after the death of Gustav III in 1792.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28920808", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28920808", "title": "Gabriel Astruc", "text": "Gabriel Astruc\n\nGabriel Astruc (14 March 1864 – 7 July 1938) was a French journalist, agent, promoter, theatre manager, theatrical impresario, and playwright whose career connects many of the best-known incidents and personalities of Belle Epoque Paris.\n\nBorn in Bordeaux, Astruc was the son of Élie Aristide Astruc (1831–1905), a rabbi (Grand Rabbi of Belgium from 1866–1879), and began his career working for publisher Paul Ollendorff, and as a columnist from 1885 through 1895. As a regular at Montmartre's prototypically bohemian Le Chat Noir cabaret, he befriended a young Erik Satie and wrote articles and theater pieces under the pen name \"Surtac\". In 1897 he founded a music publishing company with his father-in-law Wilhelm Enoch, by 1900 he had introduced the luxury magazine \"Musica\", and by 1904 had become a concert promoter.\n\nIn this period he was the booking agent for Mata Hari. Astruc booked Hari into the Paris Olympia in August 1905, and would manage her appearances for the next ten years, through the height of her considerable fame. He also served as booking agent for Feodor Chaliapin, Arthur Rubinstein, and Wanda Landowska, but not Isadora Duncan, whom he considered too subtle to attract a sizable audience.\n\nFrom 1905 through 1912 Astruc brought a long list of musical giants to Paris under the banner \"Great Season of Paris\", including an Italian season with Enrico Caruso and Australian soprano Nellie Melba in 1905, the creation of \"Salome\" under the baton of Richard Strauss in 1907, the Ballets Russes of Diaghilev in 1909, the Metropolitan Opera conducted by Arturo Toscanini in 1910, and Debussy's \"Le martyre de Saint Sébastien\" (text by Gabriele D'Annunzio) in 1911.\n\nIn 1913 Astruc tried to parlay his success by commissioning Auguste Perret to build the innovative Théâtre des Champs-Élysées in the Avenue Montaige. This building is an architectural landmark of early reinforced concrete. After a brilliant and scandalous first season, climaxed by the famous riot at the May 29 premiere of The Rite of Spring, Astruc found himself financially ruined within six months. He was also the target of anti-Semitic attacks from Léon Daudet and others of the Action Française.\n\nAfter World War I, he worked in the field of radio and advertising, and in 1929 served as the manager of the Théâtre Pigalle for Philippe de Rothschild. Astruc and Marcel Proust were friends, having helped proofread the first edition of Swann's Way, and Proust returned the favor by helping Astruc prepare his memoirs, \"Le pavillon des fantômes\", appearing in 1929.\n\nHis papers reside at the New York Public Library for the Performing Arts Dance Collection.\n"}
{"id": "1024790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024790", "title": "Hong Kong Performing Artistes Guild", "text": "Hong Kong Performing Artistes Guild\n\nThe Hong Kong Performing Artistes Guild or HKPAG (Chinese: 香港演藝人協會) is a non-profit labour association that represents Hong Kong artistes, canto-pop singers and stage performers. As a member of \"International Society for the Performing Arts\" its main aims are to improve entertainment industry standards as well as to protect and promote artistes’ rights. Today the guild represents over 900 performers including Andy Lau, Eason Chan and Josephine Siao. In 2014 founding member Jackie Chan took over from Eric Tsang as chairman.\n\nOn 11 August 1993 actors Jackie Chan, Eric Tsang, Anita Mui gathered together along with close to a hundred of the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts workers to set up an organisation which would belong to the members of the Hong Kong Academy for Performing Arts. That night, they also elected temporary members of the preparatory committee, which include, Jackie Chan, Michael Hui, Chow Yun-fat as a vice president. And there are more than twenty members from different performing arts level include: Eric Tsang, Andhra respect, Money Lo, Lam Kin-ming, Wei LieGe Wenhui, Jan Lamb, Ho Kam Wah, Anita Mui, Jacky Cheung, Maggie Cheung, Sandra Ng, Yammie Lam, Danny Lee, Richard Ng, Frankie Chan, Nat Chan, Tommy Wong, Carina Lau, Chen Guo-Xin, Philip Chan, Dong Wei, Guo Xiuyun, Lvshao Ling are all extensive advisers. On 12 December the Hong Kong Performing Artistes Guild held the first session of the General Assembly at the Jubilee Sports Institute officially establishing the governing council.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14814240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14814240", "title": "Iraq at the Olympics", "text": "Iraq at the Olympics\n\nIraq first participated at the Olympic Games in 1948. Iraqis missed the 1952 and boycotted the 1956 games over opposition to the Suez Crisis. Following this absence, Iraq returned to win a Bronze medal at the 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome. They participated in the next three games but once again did not appear in the 1972 and 1976 games to boycott apartheid South Africa. In joining the 1976 Boycott, Iraq became only the second non-African state to participate in the boycott (the other being Guyana). Since 1980, Iraq has appeared in every game despite the Iraq Wars. On April 9, 2003 the National Olympic Committee of Iraq building in Baghdad was damaged in looting and fires from looters. Iraq's Olympic program recovered in time to compete in the Athens Olympics the following year, and the Iraq football team almost won a bronze medal but were defeated by Italy in the bronze medal match. Iraq has never competed at the Winter Olympic Games.\n\nIraq has only won one medal since they have entered the games. They won the medal in Weight lifting. \n\nThey have been represented by National Olympic Committee of Iraq since entering.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23737043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23737043", "title": "It's a Big Country", "text": "It's a Big Country\n\nIt's a Big Country: An American Anthology is a 1951 anthology film consisting of eight segments directed by seven directors: Clarence Brown, Don Hartman, John Sturges, Richard Thorpe, Charles Vidor, Don Weis, and William A. Wellman.\n\nA professor traveling on a train is asked by a fellow passenger if he too loves \"America\". The professor then asks: \"Which America?\" This provides a lead-in for multiple tales of American life. There is the tale of Mrs. Riordan, an elderly lady from Boston. She is upset about not having been counted in the 1950 census. She asks a newspaper editor named Callaghan to intervene on her behalf, and he makes the mistake of not taking her seriously.\n\nFollowing on the census story there is a five-minute interlude featuring black Americans, highlighting military service in the Navy, WACs, and Paratroopers. There are clips featuring Benjamin O. Davis Sr. and Benjamin O. Davis Jr. It then moves on to sports figures such as Jackie Robinson, Jesse Owens, Joe Lewis, Sugar Ray Robinson, Levi Jackson. Entertainers featured in this segment include Marian Anderson (performing in front of the Lincoln Memorial), Lena Horne, Ethel Watters, Duke Ellington, Louis Armstrong, Eddie Anderson and the Berry Brothers. Then civil servants are featured, including Adam Clayton Powell Jr. and Ralph Bunche.\n\nThere is the story of a Hungarian immigrant named Stefan Szabo who is in the business of selling paprika. He has several daughters and does not want them to marry men of other nationalities. Rosa falls in love with Icarus, who is Greek, and must overcome her father's objections. There is the tale of Maxie Klein, a young Jewish man, who was injured during the Korean War, and is on his way to his home in Chicago. He stops on his way home to look up the mother of a young man, an Army buddy, who died in the conflict. The mother is not sure what to make of Maxie because her son mentioned no Jewish friend, but ends up touched by his visit. So many tall tales about Texas exist that a tall Texas man takes it upon himself to separate the fact from the fiction.\n\nAdam Burch, a minister in Washington, D.C., whose parishioners include the President of the United States, sometimes tailors his sermons specifically for the President, only to learn later that the President was unable to attend services that day. Scolded to speak for all rather than to one, Rev. Burch gives the sermon of his life, and then learns to his surprise that the President was present on that day and heard every word. Miss Coleman, a school teacher in San Francisco, discovers that her pupil Joey needs glasses. Joey's father, Mr. Esposito, believes they are not necessary and will only bring Joey ridicule from his peers. In the end, it is the father who learns an important lesson.\n\n\nAccording to MGM records the film earned $526,000 in the US and Canada and $129,000 elsewhere, resulting in a loss to the studio of $677,000.\n\n"}
{"id": "28262012", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28262012", "title": "Jikuu Keisatsu Wecker SIGHT", "text": "Jikuu Keisatsu Wecker SIGHT\n"}
{"id": "58049356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58049356", "title": "Kirsten Langbo", "text": "Kirsten Langbo\n\nKirsten Langbo (13 September 1909 – 18 January 1996) was a Norwegian children's writer, singer-songwriter and entertainer.\n\nShe was born in Gran to farmer Iver Paulsen Jorstad and Dagny Franziska Aleksandra Pedersen, and grew up in a family with thirteen sieblings. She moved to Vancouver, Canada, where she married papermaster Georg Gulbrandsen Langbo around 1930, and the couple eventually settled in Drammen.\n\nAfter having raised her own children, Langbo started writing humorous articles for the newspaper \"Drammens Tidende\". Appearing in the children's radio show \"\" from the mid 1950s, she performed her own songs and told stories from her rural childhood. Her signature tune was a vocal imitation of a trombone solo (a version of \"Bavarian polka\" played with her lips). She also appeared in television shows for NRK, as ventriloquist with hand puppets. She made her literary debut in 1957 with the anthology \"Morn igjen\". Further the children's books \"Berte fra Barnetimen\" (1958), \"Mirisak\" (1967), \"Pappa Tusenbein\" (1969), and \"Ola på Rundtomgard\" (1977). A second version of \"Berte fra barnetimen\" was issued as \"Barna på Mikkelsplassen\" in 1977, illustrated by Borghild Rud. In 1978 she wrote the memoir book \"Heme hos oss\". Langbo became a popular entertainer, and toured in Norway with her puppet shows and songs. More than eighty songs by her are registered. Her first record, an EP from 1956, contained the songs \"Jenta som ikke ville ha mat\", \"Mamma-e-a-e-a\", \"Loftsmusene\", and \"Musene leker gjemsel\". She issued the EP \"Berte fra Barnetimen\" in 1960, and cooperated with Alf Prøysen, Kjell Lund and Ingebrigt Davik on the EP \"Trafikk-ABC\" in 1961. She published the album \"Barnetime for store og små\" in 1972, and participated with other artists on the albums \"Jul for hele familien\" (1978) and \"Barnas Store Ønskeplate\" (1979).\n\nShe was awarded the and Hadelandsprisen.\n"}
{"id": "11751920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11751920", "title": "List of comics awards", "text": "List of comics awards\n\nThis is a list of comics awards from around the world. This list includes awards given out for achievements in cartooning, comic books, comic strips and graphic novels. Some works in comics are also eligible for, and in some instances have won literary awards.\n\n\nThe following is a timeline of notable U.S. comics awards that feature multiple categories. Awards voted on by professionals are in shades of blue; fan awards are in shades of red. (The Ignatz Award is a mixture, as the nominees are selected by professionals, but the winners are determined by the attendees of that year's Small Press Expo.)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50684972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50684972", "title": "Macchietta", "text": "Macchietta\n\nMacchietta (literally \"little spot\"; Plural: macchiette) is a form of comedy act which was common in Italian theatre between the late 1800s and the second half of the 1900s.\n\nThe \"macchietta\" consisted in comic musical monologues caricaturing stock characters. It was generally committed to the observation of reality, and it sketched characters featuring particular defects or manias, which were further deformed and exaggerated for comical and satirical effects. Every monologue had some music serving as backdrop for the whole performance and the acting was interspersed by brief couplets sung by the comedian.\n\nMacchiette were performed in café-chantants, revues and avanspettacolo, and less frequently as part of more elaborate comedy plays. After a golden age between the late 1800s and early 1900s, the genre apparently went out of fashion around 1920, before being resurrected in an amended and updated form in the 1930s, mostly thanks to the duo formed by Gigi Pisano and Giuseppe Cioffi, who created a series of popular macchiette such as \"Ciccio Formaggio\", \"Mazza Pezza e Pizzo\" and \"Datemi Elisabetta\", which were successfully performed by the most popular comedians of the time.\n\nStarting from the 1950s, the genre eventually declined and gradually disappeared together with the decline of avanspettacolo.\n\nNicola Maldacea was among the first actors to adopt the genre, and he is regarded as the figure who mostly helped to canonize the macchietta, if not its inventor. He himself regarded himself as the person who coined the term. Some of his macchiette had notable poes such as Trilussa, Salvatore Di Giacomo and Libero Bovio as often uncredited authors.\n\nOther well-known artists specialized in this form of entertainment were the Milan-based actor and playwright , the Neapolitans Raffaele Viviani and (creator of the classical macchietta \"La risata\"), and the Roman Ettore Petrolini.\n"}
{"id": "31316475", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31316475", "title": "Man of Steel (film)", "text": "Man of Steel (film)\n\nMan of Steel is a 2013 epic superhero film based on the DC Comics character Superman. It is a British-American venture produced by DC Entertainment, Legendary Pictures and Syncopy, and distributed by Warner Bros. Pictures. It is the first installment in the DC Extended Universe (DCEU). The film is directed by Zack Snyder, written by David S. Goyer, and stars Henry Cavill, Amy Adams, Michael Shannon, Kevin Costner, Diane Lane, Laurence Fishburne, Antje Traue, Ayelet Zurer, Christopher Meloni, and Russell Crowe. \"Man of Steel\" is a reboot of the \"Superman\" film series that portrays the character's origin story. In the film, Clark Kent learns that he is a superpowered alien from the planet Krypton. He assumes the role of mankind's protector as Superman when faced with the threat of humanity's destruction from General Zod.\n\nDevelopment began in 2008, when Warner Bros. took pitches from comic book writers, screenwriters, and directors, opting to reboot the franchise. In 2009, a court ruling resulted in Jerry Siegel's family recapturing the rights to Superman's origins and Siegel's copyright. The decision stated that Warner Bros. did not owe the families additional royalties from previous films, but if they did not begin production on a Superman film by 2011, then the Shuster and Siegel estates would be able to sue for lost revenue on an unproduced film. Producer Christopher Nolan pitched Goyer's idea after story discussion on \"The Dark Knight Rises\", and Snyder was hired as the film's director in October 2010. Principal photography began in August 2011 in West Chicago, Illinois, before moving to Vancouver and Plano, Illinois.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" was released in theaters on June 14, 2013, in conventional 2D, 3D, and IMAX formats. Despite receiving mixed reviews, the film became a box office success, grossing more than $668 million worldwide. Critics praised the film's visuals, performances, and Hans Zimmer's score, but criticized the pacing and aspects of the screenplay. A follow-up entitled \"\" was released on March 25, 2016.\n\nWith Krypton destabilized from mining of the planet's core, Jor-El, chief advisor to Krypton's supreme council, recommends the council give him control of the genetics codex. Before any action can be taken, soldiers led by General Zod, an old friend of Jor-El's, launch an uprising and arrest the councilors. Realising that Krypton is doomed, Jor-El steals the genetic codex sought by Zod and infuses them into the DNA of his infant son, Kal-El – the first naturally born Kryptonian child in centuries. Donning his old armor, Jor-El sacrifices his life to allow his son to escape on a preprogrammed spacecraft. Zod's rebellion is suppressed by the council and are sentenced to the Phantom Zone after being convicted of treason. Krypton explodes soon after.\n\nFollowing Jor-El's coordinates, the ship crash lands on Earth in Smallville, Kansas. A childless couple, Jonathan and Martha Kent, find Kal-El and raise him as their own, naming him Clark. Clark eventually becomes an isolated young man as a result of developing superhuman powers which he tries to hide from others. He then learns his true origins from Jonathan, who urges him to keep his powers hidden. Several years later, Jonathan dies in a tornado while refusing to let Clark rescue him. Burdened with guilt and looking for a new purpose in his life, Clark leaves to travel the world for an extended period of time under several disguises.\n\nSeveral months later, \"Daily Planet\" reporter Lois Lane receives an assignment to investigate the discovery of a Kryptonian scout ship in the Canadian Arctic. Disguised as a worker, Clark enters the ship and activates its central computer using a key left by Jor-El, which allows him to communicate with an artificial intelligence modeled after his father. The AI explains that Clark was sent to Earth to guide its people, and presents him with a Kryptonian uniform bearing his family's symbol. While following Clark, Lois inadvertently triggers the ship's security system. Clark uses his powers to rescue Lois before wearing the uniform and testing his flying abilities. Unable to convince supervisor Perry White to publish an article on the incident, Lois tracks down Clark and agrees to keep his secret safe.\n\nEscaping the Phantom Zone, Zod and his crew intercept a transmission from the scout vessel and travel to Earth. Deducing that Kal-El is nearby, they broadcast a global address demanding that he surrender or risk war. Clark meets with the United States Air Force and agrees to comply, with Lois joining him as a hostage. Zod reveals that he possesses numerous terraforming devices, the largest called a World Engine, which he salvaged from Kryptonian outposts, which he intends to use to transform Earth into a new Krypton. His science officer, Jax-Ur, extracts Clark's genes to create Kryptonian colonists who will annihilate humanity and build a society based on Zod's ideals of genetic purity.\n\nWith help from Jor-El, Clark and Lois flee and warn the U.S. military after an explosive confrontation between Clark and Zod's troops in Smallville, just as Zod orders an invasion. Zod deploys the World Engine from the Kryptonian ship, which touches down in the Indian Ocean and begins firing a beam through the planet towards the ship, severely damaging Metropolis, and initiating the terraforming strategy. Given the codename \"Superman\", Clark destroys the terraforming platform while the military launches a suicide attack, sending Zod's troops back to the Phantom Zone. With the ship destroyed and Krypton's only hope of revival gone, Zod vows to destroy the Earth and its inhabitants just to spite Superman. The two Kryptonians engage in a lengthy battle across Metropolis, which concludes when Superman is forced to kill Zod as he attacks a family in a train station.\n\nSuperman persuades the government to let him act independently, so long as he does not turn against humanity. To allow access to dangerous situations without attracting attention, Clark takes a job as a freelance reporter for the \"Daily Planet\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAdditionally, Harry Lennix plays Lieutenant General Calvin Swanwick, a United States Army general officer and the deputy commander of United States Northern Command. Christina Wren plays Captain Carrie Ferris, a United States Air Force officer and the assistant to General Swanwick. Richard Schiff plays Dr. Emil Hamilton, a scientist who works with the United States Armed Forces for DARPA. Carla Gugino portrays the voice of Kelor, the Kryptonian A.I. service-robot. Mackenzie Gray plays Jax-Ur, a Kryptonian scientist who is one of General Zod's followers. Michael Kelly plays Steve Lombard, an employee of the \"Daily Planet\", and Rebecca Buller plays Jenny Jurwich, an intern of the \"Daily Planet\". Jack Foley, Jadin Gould and Rowen Kahn respectively play Pete Ross, Lana Lang and Kenny Braverman, classmates of Clark Kent in high school, with Joseph Cranford portraying Pete Ross as an adult. Richard Cetrone, Samantha Jo, Revard Dufresne and Apollonia Vanova respectively play Tor-An, Car-Vex, Dev-Em II and Nadira, Kryptonian soldiers that follow General Zod.\n\nMany reviewers have stated that \"Man of Steel\" is a religious allegory, especially since Warner Bros. set up a website www.manofsteelresources.com that contains \"a nine-page pamphlet entitled \"Jesus – The Original Superhero\"\". Justin Craig compares Kal-El's struggle to the passion of Christ, stating that \"Kal-El is more than willing to sacrifice himself to save the people of Earth. Originally reluctant to reveal his identity and powers to the world, Supes decides to turn himself over to Zod to save humanity from annihilation.\" Craig also states that there is an allegory to the Trinity within \"Man of Steel\": \"Jor-El returns to Kal-El on Earth as a ghost, guiding his budding superhero son on his journey to salvation. Before Jor-El sends his son off to Earth baby Moses-style, he tells his wife that, like Jesus, 'He’ll be a god to them.'\" Paul Asay of \"The Washington Post\" writes that \"Superman floats in space with his arms splayed out as if nailed to an invisible cross,\" a fact that Craig also mentioned in his assessment of the film. The protagonist of the film is also 33 years old and seeks \"counsel at a church.\" Writing for \"The Huffington Post\", Colin Liotta compared Zod to Adolf Hitler, citing, \"He feels his vision for a pure Krypton (i.e. a society like the one Hitler envisioned with his eugenics program) is the only answer for survival.\"\nIn June 2008, Warner Bros. took pitches from comic book writers, screenwriters and directors on how to successfully restart the \"Superman\" film series. Comic book writers Grant Morrison, Mark Waid, Geoff Johns and Brad Meltzer were among those who pitched their ideas for a reboot. \"I told them, it’s not that bad. Just treat \"Superman Returns\" as the Ang Lee \"Hulk\",\" Morrison said. \"\"The Incredible Hulk\" has proven the audience will forgive you and let you redo the franchise,\" said Waid. Morrison's idea was similar to his work on \"All-Star Superman\", while Waid's was akin to \"\". Mark Millar, teaming with director Matthew Vaughn, also planned an epic eight-hour \"Superman\" trilogy, each installment released a year apart, similar to \"The Lord of the Rings\". Millar compared it to the \"Godfather\" trilogy, in which it would chronicle the entire life of Superman, from the early days of Krypton to the finale where Superman loses his powers as the Sun starts to go supernova.\n\nIn August 2008, Warner Bros. suggested a reboot of the film series. Studio executive Jeff Robinov planned to have the film released either by 2010 or 2011, explaining \"\"Superman Returns\" didn't quite work as a film in the way that we wanted it to. It didn't position the character the way he needed to be positioned. Had Superman worked in 2006, we would have had a movie for Christmas of this year or 2009. Now the plan is just to reintroduce Superman without regard to a Batman and Superman movie at all.\" Paul Levitz stated in an interview that Batman holds the key to the Superman reboot. He elaborated, \"Everyone is waiting for Nolan to sign on for another Batman, once that happens, the release date for Superman and all other future projects will follow.\" In February 2009, McG, who previously planned to direct \"Superman: Flyby\", expressed interest in returning to the Superman franchise. August 2009 saw a court ruling in which Jerry Siegel's family recaptured 50% of the rights to Superman's origins and Siegel's share of the copyright in \"Action Comics#1\". In addition, a judge ruled that Warner Bros. did not owe the families additional royalties from previous films. However, if they did not begin production on a Superman film by 2011, then the Siegel estate would have been able to sue for lost revenue on an unproduced film.\n\nThe plot of \"Man of Steel\" employs a nonlinear narrative, and tells parts of the story in flashback. During story discussions for \"The Dark Knight Rises\" in 2008, David S. Goyer told Christopher Nolan his idea regarding how to present Superman in a modern context. Impressed with Goyer's concept, Nolan pitched the idea to the studio, who hired Nolan to produce and Goyer to write based on the financial and critical success of \"The Dark Knight\". Nolan admired Bryan Singer's work on \"Superman Returns\" for its connection to Richard Donner's version, stating that \"A lot of people have approached Superman in a lot of different ways. I only know the way that has worked for us that's what I know how to do,\" emphasizing the idea that Batman exists in a world where he is the only superhero and a similar approach to the \"Man of Steel\" would assure the integrity needed for the film. \"Each serves to the internal logic of the story. They have nothing to do with each other.\" Nolan, however, clarified that the new film would not have any relationship with the previous film series.\n\nJeff Robinov, president of Warner Bros. Pictures Group, spoke to \"Entertainment Weekly\", and allowed a peek over the wall of secrecy surrounding their DC Comics plans: \"It's setting the tone for what the movies are going to be like going forward. In that, it's definitely a first step.\" Plans included for the film to contain references to the existence of other superheroes, alluding to the possibility of a further DC Universe, and setting the tone for a shared fictional universe of DC Comics characters on film.\nGuillermo del Toro, with whom Goyer worked on \"Blade II\", turned down the director's position on the reboot because of his commitment on a film adaptation of \"At the Mountains of Madness\", while Robert Zemeckis was also approached. Ben Affleck (who would eventually be cast as Bruce Wayne/Batman in ), Darren Aronofsky, Duncan Jones, Jonathan Liebesman, Matt Reeves, and Tony Scott were considered as potential directors, before Zack Snyder was hired in October 2010. Casting began the following November. Zack Snyder confirmed both Booster Gold and Batman references in the film, indicating their presence in the DC shared film universe. When Zod destroys a satellite, the words \"Wayne Enterprises\" are scrolled on the satellite.\n\nPrincipal photography began on August 1, 2011, at an industrial park near DuPage Airport under the codename \"Autumn Frost\". Zack Snyder expressed reluctance to shooting the film in 3-D, due to the technical limitations of the format, and instead chose to shoot the film two-dimensionally and convert the film into 3-D in post production, for a 2-D, 3-D, and IMAX 3-D release. Snyder also chose to shoot the film on film instead of digitally, because he felt it would make the film, \"a big movie experience\". Filming was expected to last for two to three months. Production took place in Plano, Illinois on August 22 to 29. According to an interview with Michael Shannon, filming would continue until February 2012.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" filmed in the Chicago area, California and Burnaby's Mammoth Studios was transformed into Superman's home planet of Krypton and myriad extraterrestrial aircraft. Metro lands on Vancouver's North Shore waterfront hosted the shoot for the dramatic oil rig rescue that introduces audiences to Superman. Ucluelet and Nanaimo, British Columbia, feature prominently in the film’s first hour—the trademark winter mist and rough seas are passed off as Alaska in the film. Filming took place in the Chicago Loop from September 7 to 17. Vancouver production took place from September 21, 2011, to January 20, 2012 to celebrate the 60th birthday anniversary of the late Christopher Reeve who was the first actor who played Superman in films. The Chicago shoot was a unit project, meaning that filming could partake numerous establishing shots as well as cutaways and may not necessarily include principal cast members.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" features a redesigned Superman costume by James Acheson and Michael Wilkinson. The costume preserves the color scheme and \"S\" logo, but adopts darker tones, and notably does not feature the red trunks usually worn by Superman. Zack Snyder said the costume is \"a modern aesthetic\". He and the producers attempted to devise a suit featuring the red trunks, but could not design one that fit into the tone of the film, leading to their removal from the suit. Because of Wilkinson's unavailability, Snyder chose Acheson to design the suit; however he only started developing it, and Wilkinson finished the development when he returned, and designed the other character's costumes as well. Due to the substantial weight a practical suit would yield, the Kryptonian armor for General Zod was constructed through CGI to allow Shannon \"freedom of movement\". In a March 2014 interview with \"Esquire\", Wilkinson explained the reason for the look of Superman's redesigned suit:\n\nJohn \"DJ\" Desjardin served as the visual supervisor for \"Man of Steel\", with Weta Digital, MPC, and Double Negative providing the visual effects for the film. Zack Snyder wanted the film to \"appear very natural because there’s some very fantastical things in there and he wanted people to suspend their disbelief, and we the visual effects team had to make it as easy as possible for them to do so.\" Desjardin noted that the intent in shooting the film was to utilize handheld devices to make the film feel like a \"documentary-style\" film. \"We had to think about what that would mean, since we also had to photograph some crazy action,\" said Desjardin. \"So for a lot of the previs we did, we’d start to think where our cameras were and where our cameraman was. A lot of the rules are the \"Battlestar Galactica\" rules for the space cams that Gary Hurtzel [sic] developed for that miniseries, where we want to make sure if we're translating the camera at all it makes sense. Unless the action is so over the top, like in the end where Superman is beating up Zod—we had to break it a bit.\"\nFor the first act of the film taking place on the planet Krypton, Weta Digital placed alien-like planet environments, creatures and the principal means of display—a technology the filmmakers called \"liquid geometry\". Weta Digital visual effects supervisor Dan Lemmon explained that, \"It’s a bunch of silver beads that are suspended through a magnetic field, and the machine is able to control that magnetic field so that the collection of beads behave almost like three-dimensional pixels, and they can create a surface that floats in the air and describes whatever the thing is you’re supposed to be seeing.\" The beads of the display, which up close would appear to be pyramids with a slight bevel, were designed to create a surface of the object to depict inside a \"console-like\" figure.\n\nIn the modeling and animation aspect of the liquid geometry, Goodwin explained, \"We had to develop a pipeline to bring in assets, so instead of going through the route of reducing the polygon count to something usable what we would then do—you would take the model in whatever way it was made and just scatter discrete points onto it, and extract the matrix onto the animation and copy these points onto the matrix and have these sparse points behaving in a way that the model would.\" After the animation, artists duplicated the beads onto the animated geometry for a pre-simulated lighting version to get approval on how the object would read. Sims were then run \"on all the targets which would be discrete beads floating around on top of the surface which would have its own set of parameters,\" said Goodwin. \"The bead size or the turbulence that would crawl along the surface constantly updating the orientation was based on the normal provided by the surface. That was then saved to disk and we would use that sim as the final target for the simulation.\" After the simulation process, Weta Digital ran every bead through a temporal filter to remove jitter to control the noise. Lighting solutions directly worked on the set. Weta utilized RenderMan to take advantage of improved ray tracing and instancing objects.\n\nThe sequences where Superman utilizes close-combat fight scenes with the other Kryptonians proved to be a major challenge for the filmmakers and the visual effects crew. Desjardin explained, \"When we do these fights and these hyper-real things, we don’t want to do the traditional, 'OK I’m a cameraman, I'm shooting a clean plate, I'm going to pan over here to follow the action that’s not really there yet but we'll put the action in later. Because that's us animating the characters to the camera. So we would do that animation with the characters—grappling, punching or flying away—and we would take the real guys up until the point until they were supposed to do that and we'd cut. Then we'd put an environment camera there and take the environment. And then a camera for reference of the actors and get each moment. So then we had a set of high-res stills for the environment and the characters. Then, in post, we take the digi-doubles and animate them according to the speeds we want them to move in our digital environment.\"\n\nMPC handled the visual effects for the \"Smallville encounter\" sequence. Before providing the visual effects, the shots were previsualized for the fight choreography. After the previsualizations, live action portions of the scene would be filmed in small pieces. \"If say Superman was being punched and would land 50 meters away, we would shoot our start position and end position, and then bridge that gap with the CG takeovers,\" says Guillaume Rocheron, the MPC visual effects supervisor. A camera rig would then obtain key frames of the choreographed actor. \"It's a six-still camera rig that's built on a pipe rig so that you can run it in at the end of a setup and get stills of key frames of a performance or an expression,\" said Desjardin, \"and then we could use those hi-res stills to project onto the CG double and get really accurate transition lighting and color—right from the set.\"\n\nOn set, a camera rig was used to capture the environment of the sequence. Dubbed \"enviro-cam\", the visual effects crew would mount a Canon EOS 5D and a motorized nodal head, allowing the crew to capture the environment at a 360-degree angle with 55k resolution for every shot, the process would take approximately two to four minutes. The set capture resulted in lighting and textures that could be reprojected onto geometry. Full-screen digital doubles were a major component for the fighting sequences. Digital armor was also added, along with the energy-based Kryptonian helmets. Cyberscan and FACS were conducted with the actors, and polarized and non-polarized reference photos were taken. Superman's cape and costume were scanned in high detail—the cape in particular became a direct extensions of Superman's actions.\n\nFor the sequences involving the terraforming of the city Metropolis, Double Negative handled the visual effects for the sequence. In order to construct a Metropolis that seemed convincing and realistic, Double Negative utilized Esri's CityEngine to help procedurally deliver the city. \"That was a much more sci-fi based role,\" said Double Negative visual effects supervisor Ged Wright, \"so we took what they had done and extended it a great deal. The work we were doing was based around the Downtowns for New York, L.A. and Chicago and that gave us the building volumes for heights. We’d skin those volumes with kit parts, but most of it then had to fall down! So we had to rig it for destruction and use it for other aspects of the work as well.\"\n\nFor the destruction of the buildings, the studio rewrote its own asset system to focus towards its dynamic events. The Bullet physics software was a heavily impacted component for the utilization of the destruction. \"We wanted to be able to run an RBD event and trigger all these secondary events, whether it was glass or dust simulations—all of those things needed to be chained up and handled in a procedural way,\" said Wright. \"One of the advantages of this was that, because it was all based around a limited number of input components, you can make sure they're modeled in a way they’re usable in effects—you can model something but they'll be another stage to rig it for destruction.\" Fire, smoke, and water stimulation tools were developed at the Double Negative studio. The studio transitioned between the existing proprietary volume rendering software to rendering in Mantra for elements such as fireball sims. Double Negative also used the in-house fluids tool \"Squirt\" to handle larger scale sims and interaction for more tightly coupled volumes and particles. Regarding the battle between Superman and Zod, Double Negative implemented real photography onto its digital doubles.\n\nHans Zimmer initially denied popular rumors that he would be composing the film's score. However, in June 2012, it was confirmed that Zimmer would, in fact, be writing the film's musical score. To completely distinguish \"Man of Steel\" from the previous films, the iconic \"Superman March\" by John Williams was not used. Hans Zimmer's soundtrack for \"Man of Steel\" was released publicly on June 11, 2013. An unofficial rip of the musical score from the third trailer, entitled \"An Ideal of Hope\", confirmed to be a cut-down version of the track \"What Are You Going to Do When You Are Not Saving the World?\", was released on April 19, 2013. In late April 2013, the official track listing of the two-disc deluxe edition was revealed.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" held a red carpet premiere at the Lincoln Center's Alice Tully Hall in New York City on June 10, 2013, which featured the attendance of the principal cast members. The film received a wide release on June 14, 2013, in conventional, 3D, and IMAX theaters.\n\nWarner Bros. and DC Comics won the rights to the domain name manofsteel.com, in use by a member of the public, for use for the film's official website. On November 20, 2012, for the release of \"The Dark Knight Rises\" DVD and Blu-ray, Warner Bros. launched a countdown on the film's website where fans could share the countdown on websites like Facebook or Twitter to unlock an \"exclusive reward\". On December 3, 2012, the \"exclusive reward\" was revealed to be an official \"Man of Steel\" teaser poster. The poster, which depicts Superman being arrested, generated a positive response and much speculation about the film's story. On December 10, 2012, a website appeared at dsrwproject.com that provided audio signals to be decoded by viewers. It was discovered to be related to the film due to the copyright on the website. By December 11, 2012, the decoded message led readers to another website with a countdown that led to the public release of the trailer. In anticipation of the film, Mattel unveiled a toy line which includes Movie Masters action figures. In addition, Lego will release three \"Man of Steel\" sets, inspired by scenes from the film; Rubie’s Costume Co. also released a new line of \"Man of Steel\"-inspired costumes and accessories for both kids and adults. The film has reportedly earned over $160 million from promotional tie-ins.\n\nViral marketing campaigns for the film began when the official website was replaced by \"deep space radio waves\". The message was decoded to reveal a voice that said \"You Are Not Alone\". The official site continued to be updated with new static files that slowly revealed the symbol for the film's villain, General Zod. Shortly after, the website was replaced with a \"message\" from Zod, who requested that Earth must return Kal-El to his custody and told Kal-El to surrender within 24 hours or the world would suffer the consequences. A viral site called \"IWillFindHim.com\" was released that showed a countdown to the third trailer for the film.\n\nWarner Bros. enlisted a Christian-based marketing firm Grace Hill Media to help spread the Christian themes of the film to the religious demographics. Special trailers were created outlining the religious tones. Hollywood studios frequently market movies to specific religious and cultural groups. Warner Bros. previously marketed films such as \"The Blind Side\", \"The Notebook\", \"The Book of Eli\" and the \"Harry Potter\" series to faith-based groups. Warner Bros. asked Professor Craig Detweiler of Pepperdine University to \"create a Superman-centric sermon outline for pastors titled 'Jesus: The Original Superhero.'\" Paul Asay of \"The Washington Post\" writes that the \"religious themes keep coming: Free will. Sacrifice. God-given purpose. \"Man of Steel\" isn't just a movie. It's a Bible study in a cape. The messages are so strong that its marketers been [sic] explicitly pushing the film to Christian audiences.\"\n\n\"Man of Steel\" was released as a single disc DVD (feature film only), on two-disc DVD with bonus features, and respective Blu-ray and Blu-ray 3D combo packs on November 12, 2013, and in the United Kingdom on December 2, 2013. As of January 2015, Man of Steel has sold 2,279,088 DVDs along with 3,153,563 Blu-ray Discs totalling $41,500,264 and $63,820,325, respectively for a total of $105,320,589. The film was later released in 4K Ultra HD Blu-ray format on July 19, 2016.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" grossed $291 million in the United States and Canada, and $377 million in other territories, for a worldwide total of $668 million, making it the highest-grossing solo Superman film ever, and the second-highest-grossing reboot of all time behind \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" (although it did beat \"The Amazing Spider-Man\" in North America). Calculating in all expenses, \"Deadline Hollywood\" estimated that the film made a profit of $42.7 million, for Warner Bros. The film earned $116.6 million on its opening weekend, including $17.5 million from IMAX theaters. \"Man of Steel\" earned an additional $111 million from DVD and Blu-ray sales.\n\n\"Man of Steel\" made $12 million from a Thursday night Walmart screening program, and an additional $9 million from midnight shows. This marked Warner Bros.' third-highest advance night/midnight opening, and the biggest advance night/midnight debut for a non-sequel. The film eventually earned $44 million during its opening Friday (including midnight grosses) and $56.1 million when the Thursday night showings are included. The opening-day gross was the second highest for a non-sequel, and the 20th largest overall. Its opening weekend gross of $116.6 million was the third-highest of 2013, behind \"Iron Man 3\" ($174.1 million) and \"\" ($158.1 million), and the third-highest among non-sequels, behind \"Marvel's The Avengers\" ($207.4 million) and \"The Hunger Games\" ($152.5 million). It also broke \"Toy Story 3\"s record ($110.3 million) for the highest weekend debut in June (the record was again broken two years later by \"Jurassic World\"s opening gross of $208.8 million). However, on its second weekend, \"Man of Steel\"s box office fell almost 65%–68% if the Thursday night gross is included—putting it in third place, behind \"Monsters University\" and \"World War Z\". Box Office Mojo called it an \"abnormally large drop,\" close to the second weekend decline for \"Green Lantern\".\n\n\"Man of Steel\" earned $73.3 million on its opening weekend from 24 countries, which includes $4.2 million from 79 IMAX theaters, setting a June opening-weekend record for IMAX. The film set an opening-day record in the Philippines with $1.66 million. In the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta, the film earned $5.6 million on its opening day and £11.2 million ($17.47 million) on its opening weekend. Its biggest opener outside the United States was in China, with $25.9 million in four days (Thursday to Sunday). In total earnings, its three largest countries after North America are China ($63.4 million), the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta ($46.2 million) and Australia ($22.3 million).\n\n\"Man of Steel\" received mixed reviews from critics. On Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 56%, based on 316 reviews, with an average rating of 6.3/10. The site's consensus reads, \"\"Man of Steel\"s exhilarating action and spectacle can't fully overcome its detours into generic blockbuster territory.\" On Metacritic, the film received a weighted score of 55 out of 100, based on 47 critics, indicating \"mixed or average reviews\". Audience polls in North America from CinemaScore for the film tallied an average grade of an \"A–\" on an A+ to F scale, with those under the age of 18 and older than 50 giving it an \"A\". Cavill's performance as Superman earned mixed reviews, with some critics commenting on perceived stiffness and a lack of charisma.\n\nRichard Roeper of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" said that \"Man of Steel\" covered no new ground with regard to Superman films, and instead, \"we're plunged back into a mostly-underwhelming film, with underdeveloped characters and supercharged-fight scenes that drag on and offer nothing new in the way of special-effects creativity\". \"The Boston Globe\"s Ty Burr wrote, \"What’s missing from this Superman saga is a sense of lightness, of pop joy\". \"The Washington Post\"s Ann Hornaday stated that with \"Hans Zimmer’s turgid, over-produced score\", the film \"is an exceptionally-unpleasant viewing experience\". For \"The Denver Post\"s Lisa Kennedy, the chief problem with \"Man of Steel\" is the \"rhythm and balance in the storytelling and directing\" which resulted in a film that swings \"between destructive overstatement and flat-footed homilies.\"\n\nKofi Outlaw, Editor-in-Chief at Screenrant.com, gave \"Man of Steel\" a 4 out of 5 star review, stating that \"\"Man of Steel\" has more than earned its keep, and deserves to be THE iconic Superman movie for a whole new generation\". He would go on to name \"Man of Steel\" the best Superhero movie of 2013. Jim Vejvoda of IGN gave \"Man of Steel\" a 9 out of 10 while praising the action sequences and the performances of Kevin Costner, Russell Crowe and Michael Shannon.\nPeter Travers of \"Rolling Stone\" gave it a 3 stars out of 4, saying, \"Caught in the slipstream between action and angst, \"Man of Steel\" is a bumpy ride for sure. But there's no way to stay blind to its wonders.\" Todd McCarthy of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" said rebooting the franchise was unnecessary, but that the film was confident enough and Snyder's attention to detail careful enough that audiences could overlook another reboot. \"PopMatters\" journalist J.C. Maçek III, wrote, \"The path of this flawed savior isn’t quite the one that we have been led to expect and many fans will love that and many fans will decry its comic book-divergent choices. On the other hand, barring Lois Lane’s own knowledge of the dual nature of Clark and Superman (thus depriving one of fiction’s greatest reveals), the hero we see in the final moments of \"Man of Steel\" is nothing if not the character Jerry Siegel and Joe Shuster created… with just a bit more in the 'imperfections' column.\" Steve Persall of the \"Tampa Bay Times\" stated that, \"\"Man of Steel\" is more than just \"Avengers\"-sized escapism; it's an artistic introduction to a movie superhero we only thought we knew.\" \"Time\" magazine's Richard Corliss said, \"The movie finds its true, lofty footing not when it displays Kal-El’s extraordinary powers, but when it dramatizes Clark Kent’s roiling humanity. The super part of \"Man of Steel\" is just okay, but the man part is super.\" In a review on Roger Ebert's website, Matt Zoller Seitz awarded the film three out of four stars, calling it an \"astonishing movie\" and praising the conflict between Clark and Zod. But he criticized the film for not having more personal and intimate moments between Clark and Lois. In 2014, \"Empire\" ranked \"Man of Steel\" the 286th greatest film ever made on their list of \"The 301 Greatest Movies Of All Time\" as voted by the magazine's readers.\n\nSpeaking to Fox Business Channel, Grae Drake, senior editor of Rotten Tomatoes, expressed dismay over the critical reception, stating, \"As much as I love and respect our critics at Rotten Tomatoes, I've got to say I am shocked. Listen, the movie’s not perfect but ... I just cannot fathom it. It was a good movie, you guys.\"\n\nReaction to the film among comics creators was mixed. Those who enjoyed it include Jeff Parker, Heidi MacDonald, Ethan Van Sciver, Christos Gage and former Superman writer Dan Jurgens. Among its detractors were Joe Keatinge, Sean McKeever, Gabriel Hardman and Mark Waid. MacDonald praised the film's action, drama and leads Henry Cavill and Amy Adams. Van Sciver singled out Cavill in particular for praise. Gage called it the best \"Superman\" film since 1980's \"Superman II\". Hardman said that he liked a lot of the mechanics but did not connect with the characters, which robbed the story of tension. Waid, who wrote the origin miniseries \"\", criticized the film for its overall \"joyless\" tone, and for Superman's decision to kill Zod, a criticism echoed by other creators. Writer Grant Morrison, who wrote the critically acclaimed miniseries \"All-Star Superman\", expressed mixed reaction to the film, saying that while he \"kinda liked it and kinda didn’t\", it did not present anything new, as he would have preferred a \"second act\" type story with Lex Luthor instead of re-establishing the character by presenting information Morrison is already familiar with. Morrison also questioned the need for a superhero to kill, as did artist Neal Adams, who suggested that other avenues were open to Superman when Zod threatened innocents with his heat vision, such as covering his eyes. Adams further took issue with Superman's failure to move the final battle with Zod away from the heavily populated Metropolis, as the character did at the end of \"Superman II\".\n\nThe success of \"Man of Steel\" started Warner Bros. plans of a cinematic universe featuring other DC Comics characters. In June 2013, Goyer was hired to write the sequel to \"Man of Steel\", as well as a \"Justice League\" script, with the previous draft being scrapped. In July 2013, Snyder announced at San Diego Comic-Con International that the sequel to \"Man of Steel\" would have Superman and Batman meeting for the first time in the next film. Cavill, Adams, Lane and Fishburne were signed on to reprise their roles. Snyder stated that the film would take inspiration from the comic \"The Dark Knight Returns\". In August 2013, Ben Affleck was announced to be playing Batman, while Gal Gadot was cast as Wonder Woman in December 2013. Later in December, Chris Terrio was hired to rewrite the script. In January 2014, it was announced that the film had been delayed from its original July 17, 2015 release date to May 6, 2016. In April 2014, it was announced that Zack Snyder would also be directing Goyer's \"Justice League\" script. In May 2014, the film's title was revealed to be \"\". Warner Bros. was reportedly courting Chris Terrio to rewrite \"Justice League\" the following July, after having been pleased with his rewrite of \"Batman v Superman\". While Superman star Henry Cavill does not consider it a Superman sequel, Snyder stated that he \"think[s] in a way \"Batman v Superman\" is \"Man of Steel 2\"\".\n\nIn August 2016, \"The Wrap\" reported that Warner Bros. put the film in active development as a top priority. The news of a stand-alone Superman film were later confirmed by Dany Garcia, Cavill's manager. While promoting \"Arrival\", Amy Adams confirmed that work had begun on the screenplay. In March 2017, it was announced that Matthew Vaughn was being eyed by Warner Bros. to direct. In April 2018, it was reported that Christopher McQuarrie is considering directing the film.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35240062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35240062", "title": "Mikheil Iadze Stadium", "text": "Mikheil Iadze Stadium\n\nMikheil Iadze Stadium is a multi-use stadium in Akhaltsikhe, Georgia. It is used mostly for football matches and is the home stadium of FC Meskheti Akhaltsikhe. The stadium is able to hold 3,000 people.\n\nStadiums in Georgia\n"}
{"id": "462862", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462862", "title": "Minicomic", "text": "Minicomic\n\nA minicomic is a creator-published comic book, often photocopied and stapled or with a handmade binding. In the United Kingdom and Europe the term small press comic is equivalent with minicomic, reserved for those publications measuring A6 (105 mm × 148 mm) or less.\n\nMinicomics, sometimes called ashcan copies, are a common inexpensive way for those who want to make their own comics on a very small budget, with mostly informal means of distribution. A number of cartoonists — such as Jessica Abel, Julie Doucet, and Adrian Tomine — have started their careers this way and later gone on to more traditional types of publishing, while other established artists — such as Matt Feazell and John Porcellino — continue to publish minicomics as their main means of production. \n\nThe term \"minicomic\" was originally used in the United States and has a somewhat confusing history. Originally, it referred only to size: a \"digest comic\" measured 5.5 inches wide by 8.5 inches tall, while a \"minicomic\" was 5.5 inches by 4.25 inches. \n\nCurrently, there is no standard format for a minicomic. Anything between something the size of a postage stamp to regular comic book size can be considered a minicomic. The term \"minicomic\" is used in a more general sense, emphasizing the publication's handmade, informal aspect rather than the format. By this loose definition, a single photocopied page folded in quarters would still be a minicomic, but so would a thicker digest-sized comic, or even a large, elaborate, and relatively expensive photocopied booklet with a silkscreened cover. Even some professionally printed and bound booklets are referred to as minicomics, as long as they are published by the artist and marketed in minicomic venues, but this usage is controversial. \n\nMany minicomics are non-standard comic book sizes for aesthetic reasons, or are often connected to graphic design and book print \"tricks\" to look good. Many of these typical sizes are convenient for artists using standard office supplies: a US letter page can be folded in half to make a digest, or in quarters for a minicomic. These comics are generally photocopied, although some are produced in larger quantities using offset printing. \n\nIn North America, the United Kingdom, and Malaysia, minicomics are rarely found in traditional \"direct market\" comic-book stores; they are often sold directly by the artist at book fairs or through the mail, ordered from websites, or handled by small bookstores and distributors that carry zines. In terms of production and distribution issues and their audience, minicomics—of all of the sizes and types mentioned above—have much more in common with each other, and with zines, than with any traditionally published comics. In Europe many specialized comic books stores have a special little corner dedicated to the odd off-size little self-printed books. At comic book conventions, such as the one in Angoulême, there are large markets where the little books are available. Because most of the books are rather cheap and were printed in limited quantities, they have become a target of collecters.\n\nMinicomics typically have no editorial oversight, and both their content and quality vary widely. Many of the creators of minicomics do not expect to make a significant amount of money, or even cover their costs, with the price they charge for their comics.\n\nThe earliest and most popular comics in mini- and digest sizes—predating not only the term \"minicomic\", but even the standard comic-book format—were the anonymous and pornographic Tijuana bibles of the 1920s.\n\nThe underground publisher San Francisco Comic Book Company, run by Gary Arlington, published a number of minicomics in the period 1968–1976, including minicomics by Art Spiegelman and Bill Griffith.\n\nIn c. 1968, Carl Gafford created Blue Plaque Publications, the first minicomic co-op, a cooperative of minicomic creators that traded and promoted small press comics and fanzines.\n\nJack T. Chick's \"Chick tracts\", which began appearing widely in the early 1970s, also used a mini-size, although they are not typically considered mincomics.\n\nMatt Feazell's popular \"Cynicalman\" mincomics, which began in 1980, utilize the US letter page folded in quarters; the same format used by Alfred Huete's award-winning \"DADA\" mini.\n\nMany minicomics in the 1980s were produced by artists influenced by the underground comix scene who were unable to get work published in underground and alternative publications. Michael Dowers' Starhead Comix published many minicomics throughout the latter half of the 1980s, before the company moved to traditional comic book printing and distribution.\n\nJohn Porcellino's \"King-Cat Comics\", first published in May 1989 and still being published, is among the best-known and longest-running minicomics titles.\n\nIn the 1990s, before the widespread adoption of the World Wide Web, minicomics became a popular form of self-distribution for alternative cartoonists, aided by such publications as \"Factsheet Five\". Comic book series like Jessica Abel's \"Artbabe\", Julie Doucet's \"Dirty Plotte\", and Adrian Tomine's \"Optic Nerve\" all started out as self-published minicomics before being picked up by legitimate publishers.\n\nIn 1993, Rick Bradford (who had been involved in the minicomics scene since 1985) began publishing \"Poopsheet\", a zine that reviewed other small publications, including minicomics. \"Poopsheet\" eventually became a website and is now known as The Poopsheet Foundation, which is dedicated to archiving the history of minicomics.\n\nThe Ignatz Award for Best Minicomic has been awarded at the Small Press Expo every year since 1997.\n\nIn 2003, cartoonists Andy Hartzell and Jesse Reklaw co-founded Global Hobo Distro, a distributor dedicated to hand-made and hard-to-find comics that is partnered with Last Gasp.\n\nThe term minicomic also refers to the small comics booklets that come in the packages of some toys:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41863791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41863791", "title": "Musical setting", "text": "Musical setting\n\nA musical setting is a musical composition that is written on the basis of a literary work. The literary work is said to be set, or adapted, to music. Musical settings include choral music and other vocal music. A musical setting is made to particular words, such as poems. By contrast, a musical arrangement is a musical reconceptualization of a previously composed work, rather than a brand new piece of music. An arrangement often refers to a change in medium or style and can be instrumental, not necessarily vocal music.\n\nTexts commonly used in choral settings include the mass and the requiem in Western Christianity, and the Divine Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom and the All-night vigil in Eastern Christianity. Examples include Mozart's Great Mass, and Leontovych's Liturgy of St. John Chrysostom.\n\nA poem that has been set to music is known as an art song or Lied (German variant). Composers known for their art songs include Franz Schubert and Robert Schumann.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1886625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1886625", "title": "NHL 2005", "text": "NHL 2005\n\nNHL 2005 is an ice hockey video game released in 2004, the successor to \"NHL 2004\".\n\n\"NHL 2005\" features \"Open Ice Control\", including moving players without the puck and also a complete World Cup mode where each team can be created from scratch. The user was now allowed to import digitized home arenas for the scratchbuilt teams (the 30 NHL arenas plus Nuremberg Arena, Kölnarena, Stockholm Globe Arena, Helsinki Hartwall Areena and Prague Sazka Arena were available). Additional NHL jerseys and logos were also available including those of the defunct Atlanta Flames, Winnipeg Jets, Colorado Rockies (NHL), Quebec Nordiques as well as the old style Los Angeles Kings, Washington Capitals and Vancouver Canucks uniforms of the 1970s and the 1980s.\n\nThe IIHF license which granted the World Cup mode also allowed EA to use real-life international jerseys for the only time (previously released games used unique jerseys designed by the game's staff which only bore a passing similarity to their real life counterparts, so the jersey shows their flag.) The PC version of the game was stripped down to the bare essentials, including the omitting of the create-a-player feature. These omissions were possibly due to the labour dispute that season, but EA explained that they had not perfected the new create-a-player interface, which would have allowed for far greater customizability than what was previously available.\n\nThe game received \"generally favorable reviews\" on all platforms except the PC version, which received \"average\" reviews, according to the review aggregation website Metacritic.\n"}
{"id": "35483157", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35483157", "title": "New England Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame", "text": "New England Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame\n\nThe New England Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame and Fan Fest is an American professional wrestling hall of fame. It was established in January 2008 to honor select wrestling personalities who have made significant contributions to professional wrestling in New England and the Northeastern United States.\n\nThe idea for the hall of fame was conceived by Joseph Bruen, a longtime ring announcer and promoter in Massachusetts, who felt that wrestling personalities from the New England region, both regional and national, should be recognized for their achievements in pro wrestling. Inductees receive a commemorative plaque that have their names inscribed on it with the date of their induction into the hall of fame. The original Class of 2008 were inducted by Bruen's APCW Ringwars promotion; the induction ceremonies were featured at three supercards over the course of the year – Battleclash (March 29), Battlebowl (August 23), and Thanksgiving Meltdown (November 9) – all held at the American Legion in Seekonk, Massachusetts.\n\n\nStarting in 2009, the induction ceremonies have taken place at an annual banquet dinner at the Brotherhood of the Holy Ghost Charity Hall (Brightridge Club) in East Providence, Rhode Island. 2010 saw the first of the \"fan fests\", a two-day event in which inductees and special guests could interact with the fans, as well as the banquet dinner; one of the evening's highlights was the induction of the Savoldi wrestling family which included a speech from Angelo Savoldi who, at 95 years old, was the world's oldest living wrestler at the time. In addition to the hall of fame inductees, the event has also featured many wrestling stars at its \"fan fest\" weekend participating as guest speakers as well as autograph signings and Q&A sessions. The 2011 edition, for example, was hosted by longtime World Wrestling Federation ring announcer Howard Finkel and was attended by former inductees Ox Baker (2009) and \"Dangerous\" Danny Davis (2010) as well as Short Sleeve Sampson, The Iron Sheik, Brutus \"The Barber\" Beefcake, Doink the Clown, Paul Bearer, Tammy Lynn Sytch, Rosita, Balls Mahoney, Axl Rotten, Shane Douglas, Duane Gill, Armando Estrada, Kenny Dykstra, Jay Lethal, Antonio Thomas, and manager Johnny Fabulous. The Class of 2011 included Georgiann Makropoulos, Samula Anoa'i, Tito Santana, Rick Martel, and Chief Jay Strongbow; former WWF World Heavyweight Champion Bob Backlund made a surprise appearance during the second half of the induction ceremony. Jamison, a 1980s wrestling personality best remembered as the hapless television sidekick of Bobby \"The Brain\" Heenan on \"WWF Primetime Wrestling\", made his first-ever appearance at a wrestling event to receive the \"Most Entertaining Personality Award\".\n\nThe New England Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame has recognized wrestling personalities from a number of different organizations from the \"territory-era\" World Wide Wrestling Federation, International World Class Championship Wrestling, Killer Kowalski's International Wrestling Federation, and Big Time Wrestling to modern-day \"indy\" promotions such as the All-Star Wrestling, Century Wrestling Alliance, Chaotic Wrestling, the Millennium Wrestling Federation, New England Championship Wrestling, New England Wrestling Alliance, Power League Wrestling, PWF Northeast, South Coast Championship Wrestling, and Yankee Pro Wrestling. Organizations from the East Coast of the United States have also been acknowledged including the East Coast Wrestling Association, Extreme Championship Wrestling, the House of Pain Wrestling Federation, New England Championship Wrestling, as well as the National Wrestling Alliance and World Wrestling Entertainment. As of 2018, it is Rhode Island's first and only wrestling convention, and the largest event in the New England region. A third New England Pro Wrestling Hall of Fame and Fan Fest was announced for June 9, 2012, however, it has since been postponed until the summer of 2013.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17616347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17616347", "title": "Online music education", "text": "Online music education\n\nOnline music education is a recent development in the field of music education consisting of the application of new technologies associated with distance learning and online education for the purpose of teaching and learning music in an online environment mediated by computers and the internet.\n\nThe origins of online music education may be traced to the use of technologies to supplement face-to-face learning in traditional classroom settings, however in recent years it has expanded to include the offering of entire degree programs – even doctoral degrees – online. \n\nThe rise of technologies leading to the development of online music education is well documented, and such studies have become particularly popular in the United States in recent years (Schlager, 2008; Webster, 2007). Salavuo (2006) has examined the recent popularization of informal engagement with music technology in online social networks, which may embody a form of informal community music education. The potential of online music education to create positive change in terms of professional development has been noted by various scholars (Hebert, 2008; Sherbon & Kish, 2005); However, concerns have also been raised regarding the absence of a sufficient research base concerning the effectiveness of online music education (Hebert, 2007; Webster, 2007). It is likely that more studies will be seen in this high-growth area in the coming years.\n\nThe following is a partial list of North American institutions that offer online degree programs in music education:\n\n\nThe most common degree offered online in this subject area is a Master of Music, although one institution also offers a Doctor of Musical Arts degree. As of mid-2008, one institution - Boston University - has over 800 online graduate students in music education.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8398706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8398706", "title": "Para-balloon", "text": "Para-balloon\n\nA para-balloon is a tool used in a variety of games. It is in a parachute shape and is made up of fragments of colorful cloth in multiple, bright colours.\n\nAn unknown Japanese visitor saw a game involving a parachute at a YMCA in the United States in October 1960 and also in Los Angeles and was attracted to it. In the hope that children could play the game he returned to Japan and searched unsuccessfully for that kind of parachute. He later came to know that there were many good shoemakers in Kobe. He asked them to make 20 pieces and also to design games involving the parachute. He named it as Para-balloon after Parachute and Balloon.\n\nA para-balloon is the symbol of Grasshopper Scouts from The Scout Association of Hong Kong. It is used to train groups of children, aged 6 to 8. The association uses the name 快樂傘 in Chinese. Many schools, kindergartens and youth centres utilise para-balloons, following the Grasshopper Scouts.\n\nPara-balloon games are sometimes incorporated in physical exercises for elderly people in Hong Kong.\n\n"}
{"id": "11746815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11746815", "title": "Paromoiosis", "text": "Paromoiosis\n\nIn rhetoric, paromoiosis is parallelism of sound between the words of two clauses approximately equal in size. The similarity of sound can occur at the beginning of the clauses, at the end (where it is equivalent to homoioteleuton), in the middle or throughout the clauses.\n\nFor example: \"Open to gifts and open to words.\"\n"}
{"id": "17475025", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17475025", "title": "Reto-Moto", "text": "Reto-Moto\n\nReto-Moto ApS is a Danish video game developer based in Copenhagen. Founded in 1997 and reformed in April 2008, the company is best known developing \"Heroes & Generals\" (2016).\n\nPrior to founding Reto-Moto, all founding members had been part of various United States-based demo groups, but decided to move back to Copenhagen in 1997, where they founded Reto-Moto later that year. In September 1998, Reto-Moto, at the time consisting of Jesper Vorsholt Jørgensen, Rasmus Guldberg-Kjær, Martin Munk Pollas, Karsten Lemann Hvidberg, Jacob Andersen, Janos Flösser and David Guldbrandsen, and Danish film studio Nordisk Film launched IO Interactive, another developer, as a joint venture. Nordisk Film held a 40.3% stake in the venture, with the other 59.7% owned by Reto-Moto and its staff. Due to IO Interactive's rapid success through \"\" in 2000, Reto-Moto was put on ice. Eventually, all stakes in IO Interactive were sold to Eidos Interactive in March 2004.\n\nOn 11 April 2008, four of IO Interactive's founders, namely Vorsholt Jørgensen, Pollas, Andersen and Guldbrandsen, announced that they had, together with former Eidos Interactive executive producer Neil Donnell, reformed Reto-Moto as an active developer. Guldbrandsen and Donnell became chief technology officer and chief executive officer, respectively. Six further former IO Interactive employees followed to Reto-Moto in December that year. By April 2012, the company had 25 employees, of which the majority were transplants from IO Interactive.\n\nReto-Moto's first game, \"Heroes & Generals\", was announced on 7 October 2011. A temporary publishing agreement for the game was reached with Square Enix in November 2012. \"Heroes & Generals\" was officially released on 23 September 2016 and has since reached 10 million registered users as of January 2017. On 16 August 2017, Reto-Moto hired Jean-Marc Broyer as new chief executive officer. Nordisk Film announced on 6 December 2017 that they had acquired a minority stake in Reto-Moto in exchange for a investment.\n"}
{"id": "55504148", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55504148", "title": "Sacred Games (TV series)", "text": "Sacred Games (TV series)\n\nSacred Games is an Indian web television thriller series based on Vikram Chandra's 2006 novel of the same name. The first Netflix original series in India, it is directed by Vikramaditya Motwane and Anurag Kashyap, who produced it under their banner Phantom Films. The novel was adapted by Varun Grover, Smita Singh and Vasant Nath. Kelly Luegenbiehl, Erik Barmack and Motwane served as the executive producers.\n\nSartaj Singh (Saif Ali Khan) is a troubled police officer in Mumbai who receives a phone call from gangster Ganesh Gaitonde (Nawazuddin Siddiqui), who tells him to save the city within 25 days. The series chronicles the events that follow. Other cast members include Radhika Apte, Girish Kulkarni, Neeraj Kabi, Jeetendra Joshi, Rajshri Deshpande, Jatin Sarna, Elnaaz Norouzi and Kubra Sait.\n\nThe development of \"Sacred Games\" started after Erik Barmack, the Vice-president of Netflix contacted Motwane to create Indian content for the platform in 2014. They opted to adapt Chandra's novel in the local Indian language, to which Motwane agreed. After the script was completed, Motwane asked Kashyap to co-direct; Motwane directed the sequences involving Singh while Kashyap directed Gaitonde's. Swapnil Sonawane was the director of photography for Motwane; Sylvester Fonseca and Aseem Bajaj filmed the scenes directed by Kashyap. Aarti Bajaj was the editor and Alokananda Dasgupta composed the background score.\n\nThe first four episodes of \"Sacred Games\" premiered on 29 June 2018, with the full season of eight episodes released on Netflix on 6 July across 191 countries; it had subtitles in more than 20 languages. It received mostly positive reviews from critics, with particular praise for the performances and writing. In September 2018, it was announced that the series has been renewed for a second season.\n\nSartaj Singh is a troubled police inspector in Mumbai police, living on sleeping pills and seeking validation from a police force he nevertheless loathes for its corruption. He receives an anonymous phone call from Ganesh Gaitonde, a notorious crime lord who has been missing for 16 years. He tells Singh to save the city in 25 days, which initiates a chain of events that burrows deep into India's dark underworld. In the journey, Singh is helped by a Research and Analysis Wing officer, Anjali Mathur.\n\n\nErik Barmack, the vice president of Netflix, came across Vikram Chandra's 2006 crime novel, \"Sacred Games\", while they were searching for content for Indian and the global audience. He called it \"an interesting property\" and decided to adapt it in Indian language. They decided to approach Phantom Films while looking for director and producer for the series. In 2014, writer-director Vikramaditya Motwane met the team of Netflix during his visit to Los Angeles. Motwane had read Chandra's earlier novel \"Love and Longing in Bombay\" where the character of Sartaj Singh was introduced. After the meeting, he read \"Sacred Games\" and thought it was \"great\". He said the best thing for him was that they wanted to make it in Hindi and not in English, as according to him \"speaking in English can seem so fake at times.\" He started working on the adaptation of the novel with writer Varun Grover and described the writing as the \"biggest challenge\".\n\nMotwane said that the digital series medium was \"liberating\" as he was able to tell stories that \"don't have to be told in two-and-a-half hours with an interval and three songs inserted into it.\" Initially, Motwane considered bringing different directors on board for each episode: \"As we got closer to production, we realised that dates were clashing and that it was an overall nightmare [..].\" He suggested that Anurag Kashyap co-direct the series with him, as Motwane felt that the two \"distinct voices\" were essential for the \"parallel tracks\" of story. Kashyap said he \"gobbled\" on the opportunity as he was fascinated with the novel. Kashyap had read the novel in 2006 when it came out. In 2014, he had been approached by AMC from Scott Free Productions to direct a series in English. Kashyap had declined the offer, as he did not want to do \"anything based in India in English\". Motwane and his writers gave the scripts to Chandra for feedback. \"Chandra is so research-intensive that we didn't have to approach another researcher, we just had to ask him questions.\" The series was written by Grover, Smita Singh, and Vasant Nath. One of the writers, Smita Singh, said that in 2016, they were told by Phantom Films to adapt the novel and \"it had to be a gripping, slow-burner\". The research was headed by Smita Nair and Mantra Watsa, who summarised every chapter and made the \"complex plot easily accessible\" to the writers. The entire script was completed in a year. Nath said that in the beginning of the writing process, they were \"chucking away some important characters from the original, and bringing in new ones\". It is the first Indian original series for Netflix.\n\nThe episode titles are inspired by Hindu mythology. The first episode titled \"Aswatthama\", was based on the namesake character from the Sanskrit epic Mahabharata. He was cursed with immortality by Krishna after the Kurukshetra war. In the series, Gaitonde calls himself immortal like Ashwatthama, but later commits suicide. \"Halahala\", another episode, was named after a poison of the same name, which was retrieved from Samudra manthan. Aatapi and Vatapi were two demons who used to trick travellers with hospitality and kill them. Brahmahatya means killing of a Brahmin, which is a crime in Hinduism. In the episode, the Hindu Gaitonde agrees to try to attract Muslim votes for Hindu politician Bhosale. Sarama is referred to as a dog. Pretakalpa learns the rites of a Hindu to perform the cremations. In this episode, Katekar is killed and Sartaj cremates him. Rudra is the angered version of Shiva. Gaitonde's wife Subhadra is killed in this episode; he takes revenge by murdering her killers. Yayati was king cursed with premature old age. The title sequence, logo, and title designs were designed by graphic designer Aniruddh Mehta and Mumbai-based motion lab Plexus, who drew inspiration from the Hindu mythology for the designs. Mehta said that each emblem was a contemporary take on \"stories from ancient Hindu scriptures, mandala's, mixing modern design elements with characters from the Indus Valley Civilization\" that were derived from the episode titles.\n\nSeveral changes were made while the team adapted the novel as a series. The character of Kuckoo, a transgender woman, is mentioned in passing, as a dancer whom a police officer fell in love with. A constable narrates this to Sartaj, describing Kuckoo as \"beautiful as a Kashmiri apple\". In the series, Kuckoo is an extended character and is shown as the love interest of Gaitonde. Similarly, the character of Malcolm Murad, who is mentioned once in the novel, has an extended role as an assassin. Few other changes were made. In the novel, the riots were a part of the story, whereas in the series, they are narrated by Gaitonde in glimpses.\n\nSeveral characters in the series speak different Indian languages like Hindi, Marathi, Punjabi and Gujarati. Kashyap mentioned that it gives a \"real sense of what India is\". Saif Ali Khan called the series an experiment and said he agreed to do it because \"people are willing to watch programmes from other countries with sub-titles because good stories transcend boundaries.\" Khan found an \"interesting arc\" in the character of Sartaj Singh and called it \"troubled and honest\". He said that he read bits of the novel but later dropped after he found it was not helping him find what needed as an actor. Radhika Apte played the role of Research and Analysis Wing (RAW) officer Anjali Mathur. Apte called her character a \"completely no-nonsense, focused woman who's highly respected in her field and by her peers.\" She mentioned that her character is not glamourised unlike the Hindi film's depict a RAW agent and did not read the novel. Kashyap said that the novel is about \"how Bombay became Mumbai\" and the series gives \"a sense of the city, where it came from and where it is today.\"\n\nNawazuddin Siddiqui said that he treated the role of a gangster as a human being. He also felt that a series gives more time for the character to be explored, unlike a film; he said he agreed to do the series as he wanted to explore the format. He called it the most complex character he has played so far. Khan read the short story \"Kama\", written by Chandra, to \"delve into his character's angst.\" The character of Sartaj Singh was changed from the novel who is described as a thin and tall police officer to a muscled heavyweight. Khan said that changes were made to make the character look \"visually engaging\" who is a \"slightly more charged-up version of the passive officer in the books\". Kashyap called Gaitonde the \"sum of all we like in movie characters.\" Motwane said that Siddiqui was his first choice to portray Gaitonde because he \"plays gangster so well\" and \"has that aura and almost everything that's required to play a gangster.\" He expressed that casting popular actors like Khan and Siddiqui was a conscious decision as it also \"drives a larger audience to watch. He said that it was easier to convince Apte and Neeraj Kabi for the roles after Khan and Siddiqui were cast. Kabi was cast in the role of DCP Parulkar, for which he researched from the novel. He also worked on his body language as it was mentioned in the novel for the character. Jitendra Joshi played the role of constable Katekar, who is Sartaj's colleague. He was selected for the role after giving an audition. Joshi took inspiration from real life police officers for the character.\n\nActress Kubbra Sait played the role of Kuckoo, a transgender woman. She was asked to audition by Kashyap at the screening of \"Mukkabaaz\" at MAMI Film Festival; Sait auditioned and was eventually selected. She said the lack of references for the role made it \"the most challenging experience\" of her career. She wore a penis made of prosthetic makeup between her thighs. Jatin Sarna played the role of gangster Deepak \"Bunty\" Shinde, which he got after auditioning. Rajshri Deshpande played the role of Siddiqui's wife, Subhadra. Girish Kulkarni was originally offered the role of constable Katekar, which he declined as he wanted a character \"that would figure in both Sartaj and Ganesh Gaitonde's world\". He then got the role of minister Bipin Bhosale. Iranian actress Elnaaz Norouzi was cast in the role of film star Zoya Mirza. The series' production design was handled by Shazia Iqbal and Vintee Bansal; Aarti Bajaj served as the editor of the series. Swapnil Sonawane shot the portions directed by Motwane. Sylvester Fonseca and Aseem Bajaj shot the scenes of Kashyap. Anish John served as the sound designer.\n\nMotwane started filming in September 2017. Kashyap started filming the series after the completion of \"Mukkabaaz\" and finished shooting in January 2018. Both Motwane and Kashyap shot the series separately; Motwane directed the present-day scenes with Khan and Kashyap filmed the Bombay of the 1980s with Siddiqui. Motwane called the exercise of shooting individually an \"experiment\". Kashyap said it was \"painfully difficult\" to find the \"pockets of Bombay which has kept itself like it is\". Chandra was working on the novel at the same time Kashyap was working on his film \"Black Friday\" (2007), so he \"knew the real-life parallels\" in the novel. Kashyap said that he shot and treated the series like a film. Motwane said that apart from leaving out small details, they have \"stuck to the spirit of the book\". Motwane said that he tried to balance the series between \"making it for a worldwide audience [and not alienating] everybody over here.\" Motwane said that he felt liberated to tell the story without being confined to a three-act structure.\n\n\"Sacred Games\" was shot on different real locations in Mumbai including Byculla, as it was set in a period, which Motwane expressed was a \"huge logistical challenge\". The time period of Gaitonde's story remained unchanged, while the present-day narrative was shifted to present from early 2000s. Motwane explained that it was because of a \"similar sort of government [today] and the vibes are the same, so the threat felt a lot more present\". Chandra served as a script consultant in the series. According to Sonawane, \"a lot of changes happened on the shoot\". Several shots were also mentioned in the script, like the introduction of Gaitonde as a kid, which was a top-angle shot, as in the script. He chose to shoot Sartaj Singh's sequences with \"worn-out but very warm lenses that reflect how nothing is working out in Sartaj's life.\" Yellow colour palette's were used in scenes involving Gaitone because of the \"guru that he has begun to follow.\" Bajaj shot for 27 days, but left after he was involved in another project. After which Fonseca shot the rest of the scenes. He used spherical lenses to shot in order to \"demarcate\" the world. The shootout sequence at Gaitonde's house, was shot at three different locations with long takes on Steadicam and hand-held shots. One of the scene with Sait involving frontal nudity, was shot in seven takes.\n\nIn September 2018, it was announced that the series has been renewed for another season. A 58 second teaser was launched on 21 September. Kashyap will continue to direct while Neeraj Ghaywan will replace Motwane as the director. Sobhita Dhulipala will feature as a new character. The filming began in November 2018.\n\n\"Sacred Games\" is the first Netflix original series from India. In February, 2018, Netflix announced three new series, along with four others, making a total of seven series coming out of India. The first look of the main three characters: Singh, Gaitonde and Mathur were released by Netflix on 23 February 2018. It had individual stills of a blood spattered Singh, a perplexed looking Mathur and kurta pyjama clad Gaitonde. On 4 May 2018, the 55 second long teaser video was released. It was followed by the release of the official trailer on 5 June 2018. The series premiered in Mumbai on 28 June 2018 at the MAMI film festival, where only first four episodes were shown. The series was released on 6 July 2018 across 191 countries on Netflix with subtitles in more than 20 languages. Post the release, several mashup videos, art works and memes related to \"Sacred Games\" were released and circulated on social media.\n\nOn 10 July 2018, the Indian National Congress party member Rajeev Kumar Sinha, lodged a First information report against Netflix, the showrunners and Nawazuddin Siddiqui, for allegedly insulting former Indian Prime Minister Rajiv Gandhi in one of the scenes. Another complaint was lodged on 11 July 2018 by the President of Youth Indian National Trade Union Congress and All Indian Cine Worker's Association, Suresh Shyamal Gupta for allegedly insulting Gandhi. On 14 July 2018, Rahul Gandhi took to Twitter to respond to the controversy by stating that freedom \"is a fundamental democratic right\" and said: \"My father lived and died in the service of India. The views of a character on a fictional web series can never change that.\" On 15 July 2018, Sinha decided to withdraw the complaint following Gandhi's tweet. Netflix informed the Delhi High Court on 19 July 2018 that a change had been incorporated in the English subtitle to remedy the alleged insult to Gandhi. \"Sacred Games\" was also subjected to piracy. The vice president of Netlfix Todd Yellin revealed that \"Sacred Games\" was watched by twice as many people outside of India.\n\nUpon release, the series garnered positive reviews from critics, with praise to the performances. The show holds a 90% certified fresh rating on the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes based on 20 reviews, with an average rating of 6.62 out of 10. The critical consensus reads: \"Gorgeous, grim, and unexpected, \"Sacred Games\" is saved from its procedural premise by its dense plotting and superb cast.\"\n\nRaja Sen gave a positive response and wrote: \"It is not an immediately explosive concept, unfolding more like a thriller by numbers, helped along by strong performances and some nimble direction.\" Jai Arjun Singh felt that the series replicated the novel's profanity very intricately and said that the \"series uses its own methods to stress the idea of religion as something that can be both nurturing and cannibalistic\". Ektaa Malik of \"The Indian Express\" called the series \"edgier and more layered\", but said: \"For those who have read the original source material — the novel Sacred Games — they might find the series a bit jarring with regards to certain plot developments.\" Manjusha Radhakrishnan of \"Gulf News\" cited the series as an \"edgy, thrilling winner\" and said that Khan and Siddiqui are in their \"top form\". Saibal Chatterjee of NDTV gave a positive response and wrote: \"The series has the potential to wean back viewers who have been driven away from television by drab soap operas and trite entertainment formats.\"\n\nDipti Kharude of The Quint commended the writing of the series and said, \"What's commendable is that Sacred Games chooses compassion over glorification.\" Swetha Ramakrishnan of \"Firstpost\" called it a \"high benchmark for India's first Netflix original.\" She further said that the show gives \"due diligence with high production value and an investment into the right parameters — writing, acting and direction.\" Shristi Negi of CNN-News18 reviewed and mentioned that the show \"totally grips you from start to finish\". Ankur Pathak of \"HuffPost\" gave a positive response and wrote: \"At the surface, Sacred Games appears to be a standard cat-and-mouse chase but the show's probing, introspective nature turns a clichéd crime-saga to a biting commentary on the zeitgeist. Its relevance to our current moment cannot be overstated.\" Siddhant Adlakha of IGN felt the series depicted women as the \"collateral damage to the stories of men.\" He went on to say that the series is \"alluring, but frustrating.\"\n\nAditya Shrikrishna of \"The New Indian Express\" praised the performances of Kubbra Sait as Kukoo and Jitendra Joshi as Katekar, He called Katekar \"probably the best translated character and storyline from the novel to the screen.\" Urvi Parikh called the series \"gripping, \"intriguing\" and \"absolutely thrilling\" and \"exactly the Web series we have been waiting for\". Shweta Keshri of \"India Today\" praised Siddiqui's acting and said that he \"makes you believe that no one could have played Gaitonde better.\" Tanul Thakur of \"The Wire\" felt the series was a \"much leaner, condensed version of its source, trying to locate the novel's moral and philosophical centre\". He called it a \"commendable, much-needed approach\" that seems to be in a \"needless hurry\". Prashant Rao of \"The Hindu\" expressed that series captures the spirit of the book. He also praised Khan's performance, stating that he \"brings alive his character's midlife crises and the many compromises Singh makes to inhabit a 'good cop' zone with skill and dexterity.\"\n\nTim Goodman of \"The Hollywood Reporter\" stated that \"there are clear flaws\" while also mentioning that \"there's something riveting about India's bleaker, darker heart being exposed as opposed to some upbeat, colorful explosion of dance scenes\". Mike Hale of \"The New York Times\" said that, \"despite its verve and visual inventiveness, the series feels muddled and a little wearying at times\" Adam Starkey of \"Metro\" wrote that the dual narratives, while occasionally jarring, are equally compelling. Taylor Antrim called the series \"mesmerizing\" and \"addictive\", he further said that it is \"bollywood maximalism meets downbeat Euro noir meets Hollywood gangster epic\". Steve Greene of IndieWire felt the series was a \"surface-level telling of a story that wants to have so much more in its grasp.\" He also noted the amount of violence depicted. John Doyle of \"The Globe and Mail\" noted that the series \"sprawls from thriller to dense character study to brooding meditation on the roots of India's political corruption.\" He, however pointed out that some elements in the story \"will puzzle viewers not familiar with India's tangled religious tensions and caste system.\" Kaitlin Reily of Refinery29 called it a \"juicy crime thriller that combines a hardboiled detective story with magical realism.\" Lincoln Michel of \"GQ\" called it the \"best Netflix original in years.\"\n\n\"Sacred Games\" won the Best Drama Award at the News18 iReel Awards. It won five awards from 11 nominations including Best Actor (Drama) for Nawazuddin Siddiqui, Best Supporting Actor for Jitendra Joshi, Best Writing (Drama), Best Ensemble Cast, and Best Series (Drama).\n"}
{"id": "574203", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574203", "title": "Sacred bull", "text": "Sacred bull\n\nNumerous peoples throughout the world have at one point in time honored bulls as sacred. In Sumerian mythology, Marduk is the \"bull of Utu\". In Hinduism, Shiva's steed is Nandi, the Bull. The sacred bull survives in the constellation Taurus. The bull, whether lunar as in Mesopotamia or solar as in India, is the subject of various other cultural and religious incarnations as well as modern mentions in New Age cultures.\n\nAurochs are depicted in many Paleolithic European cave paintings such as those found at Lascaux and Livernon in France. Their life force may have been thought to have magical qualities, for early carvings of the aurochs have also been found. The impressive and dangerous aurochs survived into the Iron Age in Anatolia and the Near East and were worshipped throughout that area as sacred animals; the earliest survivals of a bull worship are at neolithic Çatalhöyük.\n\nThe bull was seen in the constellation Taurus by the Chalcolithic and had marked the New Year at springtide by the Bronze Age, for 4000–1700 BCE.\n\nThe Sumerian \"Epic of Gilgamesh\" depicts the killing by Gilgamesh and Enkidu of the Bull of Heaven as an act of defiance of the gods. From the earliest times, the bull was lunar in Mesopotamia (its horns representing the crescent moon).\n\nIn Egypt, the bull was worshiped as Apis, the embodiment of Ptah and later of Osiris. A long series of ritually perfect bulls were identified by the god's priests, housed in the temple for their lifetime, then embalmed and encased in a giant sarcophagus. A long sequence of monolithic stone sarcophagi was housed in the Serapeum, and was rediscovered by Auguste Mariette at Saqqara in 1851. The bull was also worshipped as Mnevis, the embodiment of Atum-Ra, in Heliopolis. \"Ka\" in Egyptian is both a religious concept of life-force/power and the word for bull.\n\nWe cannot recreate a specific context for the bull skulls with horns (\"bucrania\") preserved in an 8th millennium BCE sanctuary at Çatalhöyük in eastern Anatolia. The sacred bull of the Hattians, whose elaborate standards were found at Alaca Höyük alongside those of the sacred stag, survived in Hurrian and Hittite mythology as Seri and Hurri (\"Day\" and \"Night\"), the bulls who carried the weather god Teshub on their backs or in his chariot and grazed on the ruins of cities.\n\nBulls were a central theme in the Minoan civilization, with bull heads and bull horns used as symbols in the Knossos palace. Minoan frescos and ceramics depict bull-leaping, in which participants of both sexes vaulted over bulls by grasping their horns.\n\nThe Iranian language texts and traditions of Zoroastrianism have several different mythological bovine creatures. One of these is Gavaevodata, which is the Avestan name of a hermaphroditic \"uniquely created (\"-aevo.data\") cow (\"gav-\")\", one of Ahura Mazda's six primordial material creations that becomes the mythological progenitor of all beneficent animal life. Another Zoroastrian mythological bovine is Hadhayans, a gigantic bull so large that it could straddle the mountains and seas that divide the seven regions of the earth, and on whose back men could travel from one region to another. In medieval times, Hadhayans also came to be known as Srīsōk (Avestan *\"Thrisaok\", \"three burning places\"), which derives from a legend in which three \"Great Fires\" were collected on the creature's back. Yet another mythological bovine is that of the unnamed creature in the \"Cow's Lament\", an allegorical hymn attributed to Zoroaster himself, in which the soul of a bovine (\"geush urvan\") despairs over her lack of protection from an adequate herdsman. In the allegory, the cow represents humanity's lack of moral guidance, but in later Zoroastrianism, Geush Urvan became a yazata representing cattle. The 14th day of the month is named after her and is under her protection.\n\nBulls also appear on seals from the Indus Valley Civilisation.\n\nNandi appears in Hindu mythology as the primary vehicle and the principal \"gana\" (follower) of Shiva.\n\nIn Rig Veda, Indra was often praised as a Bull (Vrsabha – 'vrsa' means he and bha means being or uksan- a bull aged five to nine years, which is still growing or just reached its full growth), with bull being an icon of power and virile strength not just in Aryan literature but in many IE cultures.\n\nIn Cyprus, bull masks made from real skulls were worn in rites. Bull-masked terracotta figurines and Neolithic bull-horned stone altars have been found in Cyprus.\n\nThe Canaanite (and later Carthaginian) statue to which sacrifices were burnt, either as a deity or a type of sacrifice – Moloch – was referred to as a horned man, and likened to Cronus by the Romans. There may be a connection between sacrifice to the Cretan horned man Minotaur and Cronus' himself. Both Baʿal and El were associated with the bull in Ugaritic texts, as it symbolized both strength and fertility. \n\nCronus' son Zeus was raised on Crete in hiding from his father. Having consumed all of his own children (the gods) Cronus is fed a boulder by Zeus (to represent Zeus' own body so he appears consumed) and an emetic. His vomiting of the boulder and subsequently the other gods (his children) in the Titanomachy bears comparison with the volcanic eruption that appears to be described in Zeus' battle with Typhon in the \"Theogony\". Consequently, Cronus may be associated with the eruption of Thera through the myth of his defeat by Zeus. The later association between Canaanite religions in which child sacrifice took place Ezek. 20:25-26 and the association of child sacrifice with a horned god (as potentially on Crete and certainly in Carthage) may also be connected with the Greek myth of sending young men and women to the Minotaur, a bull-headed man.\n\nExodus 32:4 \"He took this from their hand, and fashioned it with a graving tool and made it into a molten calf; and they said, 'This is your god, O Israel, who brought you up from the land of Egypt'.\"\n\nNehemiah 9:18 \"even when they made an idol shaped like a calf and said, 'This is your god who brought you out of Egypt!' They committed terrible blasphemies.\"\n\nCalf-idols are referred to later in the Tanakh, such as in the Book of Hosea, which would seem accurate as they were a fixture of near-eastern cultures.\n\nSolomon's \"Molten Sea\" basin stood on twelve brazen bulls.\n\nYoung bulls were set as frontier markers at Dan and Bethel, the frontiers of the Kingdom of Israel.\n\nMuch later, in Abrahamic religions, the bull motif became a bull demon or the \"horned devil\" in contrast and conflict to earlier traditions. The bull is familiar in Judeo-Christian cultures from the Biblical episode wherein an idol of the golden calf (() is made by Aaron and worshipped by the Hebrews in the wilderness of the Sinai Peninsula (Book of Exodus). The text of the Hebrew Bible can be understood to refer to the idol as representing a separate god, or as representing Yahweh himself, perhaps through an association or religious syncretism with Egyptian or Levantine bull gods, rather than a new deity in itself.\n\nAmong the Twelve Olympians, Hera's epithet \"Bo-opis\" is usually translated \"ox-eyed\" Hera, but the term could just as well apply if the goddess had the head of a cow, and thus the epithet reveals the presence of an earlier, though not necessarily more primitive, iconic view. (Heinrich Schlieman, 1976) Classical Greeks never otherwise referred to Hera simply as the cow, though her priestess Io was so literally a heifer that she was stung by a gadfly, and it was in the form of a heifer that Zeus coupled with her. Zeus took over the earlier roles, and, in the form of a bull that came forth from the sea, abducted the high-born Phoenician Europa and brought her, significantly, to Crete.\n\nDionysus was another god of resurrection who was strongly linked to the bull. In a worship hymn from Olympia, at a festival for Hera, Dionysus is also invited to come as a bull, \"with bull-foot raging.\" \"Quite frequently he is portrayed with bull horns, and in Kyzikos he has a tauromorphic image,\" Walter Burkert relates, and refers also to an archaic myth in which Dionysus is slaughtered as a bull calf and impiously eaten by the Titans.\n\nFor the Greeks, the bull was strongly linked to the Cretan Bull: Theseus of Athens had to capture the ancient sacred bull of Marathon (the \"Marathonian bull\") before he faced the Minotaur (Greek for \"Bull of Minos\"), who the Greeks imagined as a man with the head of a bull at the center of the labyrinth. Minotaur was fabled to be born of the Queen and a bull, bringing the king to build the labyrinth to hide his family's shame. Living in solitude made the boy wild and ferocious, unable to be tamed or beaten. Yet Walter Burkert's constant warning is, \"It is hazardous to project Greek tradition directly into the Bronze Age.\" Only one Minoan image of a bull-headed man has been found, a tiny Minoan sealstone currently held in the Archaeological Museum of Chania.\n\nIn the Classical period of Greece, the bull and other animals identified with deities were separated as their \"agalma\", a kind of heraldic show-piece that concretely signified their numinous presence.\n\nThe religious practices of the Roman Empire of the 2nd to 4th centuries included the \"taurobolium\", in which a bull was sacrificed for the well being of the people and the state. Around the mid-2nd century, the practice became identified with the worship of Magna Mater, but was not previously associated only with that cult (\"cultus\"). Public taurobolia, enlisting the benevolence of Magna Mater on behalf of the emperor, became common in Italy and Gaul, Hispania and Africa. The last public taurobolium for which there is an inscription was carried out at Mactar in Numidia at the close of the 3rd century. It was performed in honor of the emperors Diocletian and Maximian.\n\nAnother Roman mystery cult in which a sacrificial bull played a role was that of the 1st–4th century Mithraic Mysteries. In the so-called \"tauroctony\" artwork of that cult (\"cultus\"), and which appears in all its temples, the god Mithras is seen to slay a sacrificial bull. Although there has been a great deal of speculation on the subject, the myth (i.e. the \"mystery\", the understanding of which was the basis of the cult) that the scene was intended to represent remains unknown. Because the scene is accompanied by a great number of astrological allusions, the bull is generally assumed to represent the constellation of Taurus. The basic elements of the tauroctony scene were originally associated with Nike, the Greek goddess of victory.\n\nMacrobius lists the bull as an animal sacred to the god Neto/Neito, possibly being sacrifices to the deity.\n\nA prominent zoomorphic deity type is the divine bull. Tarvos Trigaranus (\"bull with three cranes\") is pictured on reliefs from the cathedral at Trier, Germany, and at Notre-Dame de Paris. In Irish mythology, the Donn Cuailnge plays a central role in the epic \"Táin Bó Cúailnge\" (\"The Cattle Raid of Cooley\"), which features the hero Cú Chulainn, which were collected in the seventh century \"Lebor na hUidre\" (\"Book of the Dun Cow\").\n\nPliny the Elder, writing in the first century, describes a religious ceremony in Gaul in which white-clad druids climbed a sacred oak, cut down the mistletoe growing on it, sacrificed two white bulls and used the mistletoe to cure infertility:\nThe practice of bullfighting in the Iberian Peninsula and southern France are connected with the legends of Saturnin of Toulouse and his protégé in Pamplona, Fermin. These are inseparably linked to bull-sacrifices by the vivid manner of their martyrdoms set by Christian hagiography in the third century.\n\nIn some Christian traditions, Nativity scenes are carved or assembled at Christmas time. Many show a bull or an ox near the baby Jesus, lying in a manger. Traditional songs of Christmas often tell of the bull and the donkey warming the infant with their breath. This refers (or, at least, is referred) to the beginning of the book of the prophet Isaiah, where he says: \"The ox knoweth his owner, and the ass his master's crib.\" (Isaiah 1:3)\n\nTaurus (Latin for \"the Bull\") is one of the constellations of the zodiac, which means it is crossed by the plane of the ecliptic. Taurus is a large and prominent constellation in the northern hemisphere's winter sky. It is one of the oldest constellations, dating back to at least the Early Bronze Age when it marked the location of the Sun during the spring equinox. Its importance to the agricultural calendar influenced various bull figures in the mythologies of Ancient Sumer, Akkad, Assyria, Babylon, Egypt, Greece, and Rome.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10209649", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10209649", "title": "Screen Producers Australia", "text": "Screen Producers Australia\n\nScreen Producers Australia (formerly the Screen Producers Association of Australia (SPAA); originally the Film and Television Production Association) was formed in 1956 as a national organisation uniting the screen industry in campaigning for a healthy commercial environment.\n\nScreen Producers Australia supports the interests of businesses in their production of feature films, television programs, interactive content, and games across all genres and formats. It also organises the annual SCREEN FOREVER Conference, Australia’s leading media and entertainment conference.\n\n"}
{"id": "11184738", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11184738", "title": "Sidney Hollis Radner", "text": "Sidney Hollis Radner\n\nSidney Hollis Radner (December 8, 1919 – June 26, 2011) was a retired rug salesman from Holyoke, Massachusetts, who owned one of the world's largest and most valuable collections of Harry Houdini artifacts. Radner was a 1937 graduate of Worcester Academy and matriculated to Yale College.\n\nHe was born on December 8, 1919 and attended Yale University.\n\nHoudini's brother Theodore Hardeen considered Radner as his protégé. Hardeen died in June 1945, willed most of Houdini's collection to Radner.\n\nRadner died of cancer in Holyoke on June 26, 2011 at the age of 91.\n"}
{"id": "45710977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45710977", "title": "Sitel 3", "text": "Sitel 3\n\nSitel 3 was a satellite television channel in Macedonia. Its sister channels are \"Sitel\" and \"Sitel 2\".\n\nJadi Burek\n\nSkopje\n"}
{"id": "146947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=146947", "title": "Spider-Man (2002 film)", "text": "Spider-Man (2002 film)\n\nSpider-Man is a 2002 American superhero film directed by Sam Raimi, based on the Marvel Comics character of the same name and the first installment in the \"Spider-Man\" trilogy. The film stars Tobey Maguire as Peter Parker, a high school student living in New York City, who lives a double life as the superhero Spider-Man, after developing spider-like super powers. \"Spider-Man\" also stars Willem Dafoe, Kirsten Dunst, James Franco, Cliff Robertson and Rosemary Harris.\n\nAfter progress on the film stalled for nearly 25 years, it was licensed for a worldwide release by Columbia Pictures in 1999 after it acquired options from MGM on all previous scripts developed by Cannon Films, Carolco and . Exercising its option on just two elements from the multi-script acquisition (a different screenplay was written by James Cameron, Ted Newsom, John Brancato, Barney Cohen and Joseph Goldman), Sony hired David Koepp to create a working screenplay (credited as Cameron's), and Koepp received sole credit in final billing. Directors Roland Emmerich, Ang Lee, Chris Columbus, Jan de Bont, M. Night Shyamalan, Tony Scott and David Fincher were considered to direct the project before Raimi was hired as director in 2000. The Koepp script was rewritten by Scott Rosenberg during pre-production and received a dialogue polish from Alvin Sargent during production. Filming took place in Los Angeles and New York City from January 8 to June 30, 2001.\n\n\"Spider-Man\" premiered in the Philippines on April 30, 2002 and had its general release in the United States on May 3, 2002. It became a critical and financial success: it was the first film to reach $100 million in a single weekend, and became the most successful film based on a comic book. With a box office gross of worldwide, it was 2002's third-highest-grossing film and became the seventh-highest-grossing film of all time. The film went on to gross a total revenue of from box office and home video sales. The film competed at the 75th Academy Awards ceremony for Best Visual Effects and Best Sound. The film is credited for redefining the modern superhero genre, as well as the summer blockbuster, and due to its success it was followed by two sequels, \"Spider-Man 2\" (2004) and \"Spider-Man 3\" (2007).\n\nHigh-school senior Peter Parker, a school outcast, lives with his aunt May and his uncle Ben. On a school field trip, he visits a genetics laboratory with his friend Harry Osborn and his love interest Mary Jane Watson. Peter is bitten by a genetically engineered \"super spider\". After arriving home, he becomes unconscious. Meanwhile, Harry's father, scientist Norman Osborn, a billionaire and the owner of Oscorp, is trying to win an important military contract. He experiments on himself with an unstable performance-enhancing chemical. After applying the chemical, he goes insane and kills his assistant, Dr. Stromm.\n\nThe next morning, Peter finds that he is no longer near-sighted, and his body has transformed into a more muscular physique. At school, he finds that his hands can produce webs, and his quickened reflexes allow him to avoid injury during a confrontation with Flash Thompson. Peter discovers he has developed superhuman speed, strength, the ability to stick to surfaces, and a heightened ability to sense danger.\n\nIgnoring Ben's advice that \"With great power comes great responsibility\", Peter plans to buy a car to impress Mary Jane. He participates in an underground fighting tournament and wins his match, but the promoter cheats him and refuses to pay him the reward money. When a robber suddenly raids the promoter's office, Peter allows him to escape with the money. Moments later, he discovers that Ben was carjacked and killed. Peter pursues and catches the culprit, only to find out that was the robber he let go. During their confrontation, the robber trips and falls out of a window to his death. Meanwhile, a crazed Norman interrupts a military experiment by Oscorp's rival, using a weaponized glider from Oscorp's research and development department to kill several scientists and the military's General Slocum.\n\nUpon graduating, Peter begins using his abilities for a good cause to atone for his uncle's death, donning the costume of Spider-Man. J. Jonah Jameson, a newspaper company headmaster, hires Peter as a freelance photographer since he is the only one providing high-quality images of Spider-Man.\n\nLearning that Oscorp's board members plan to fire him and sell the company, Norman takes the glider and a specialized flight suit to assassinate them at the World Unity Fair. Jameson dubs the mysterious killer \"the Green Goblin\", based on the suit's color and the mask that Norman dons. During his encounters with Spider-Man, Norman proposes that he join him in chaotic and destructive schemes, arguing that the public will eventually turn against a hero, but Peter refuses. They later fight, and Peter is wounded. At the Thanksgiving dinner, May invites Mary Jane, Harry, and Norman. There, Norman sees the wound on Peter's arm and realizes his true identity. Shortly after he leaves, Norman attacks and hospitalizes May.\n\nMary Jane admits she is infatuated with Spider-Man, who has rescued her twice, and asks Peter whether Spider-Man ever asked about her. Harry, who is dating Mary Jane, arrives and presumes she has feelings for Peter after seeing them hold hands. Devastated, Harry tells his father that Peter loves Mary Jane, unintentionally revealing Spider-Man's biggest weakness.\n\nNorman holds Mary Jane and a Roosevelt Island Tram car full of children hostage alongside the Queensboro Bridge. He forces Peter to choose whom he wants to save before dropping Mary Jane and the children. Peter manages to save both Mary Jane and the tram car, while Norman is pelted by the civilians. Norman then grabs Peter and throws him into an abandoned building, where Peter is brutally beaten. When Norman rants about how he will kill Mary Jane, an enraged Peter overpowers Norman.\n\nNorman reveals himself to Peter, much to Peter's shock. He begs for forgiveness but furtively controls his glider to attack Peter. Sensing the danger, Peter dodges the glider and it impales Norman, killing him. As Norman dies, he begs Peter not to tell Harry the truth of his identity. Peter takes Norman's body back to his house. Harry arrives to find Spider-Man standing over his father's body. He seizes a gun to shoot Spider-Man, but he escapes and hides Norman's equipment.\n\nAt Norman's funeral, Harry vows to kill Spider-Man, whom he deems responsible for his father's death. He asserts that Peter is all the family he has left. Mary Jane confesses to Peter that she is in love with him. However, Peter feels that he must protect her from the unwanted attention of his enemies. He hides his true feelings and tells Mary Jane that they can only be friends. As Peter leaves, he recalls Ben's words and accepts his new responsibility as a superhero - Spider-Man.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nBruce Campbell, a long-time colleague of director Sam Raimi, has a cameo as the announcer at the wrestling ring Peter takes part in. Years later, Jeffrey Henderson, who worked on the storyboards for the cancelled \"Spider-Man 4\" movie, released information regarding which villains would appear within the movie. One of those included Bruce Campbell's character's progression into Quentin Beck / Mysterio. Ted Raimi, Sam Raimi's actor brother, plays a small role as editor's assistant \"Hoffman\". Sam Raimi himself is off-screen throwing popcorn at Peter as he enters the arena to wrestle Bonesaw McGraw. \"Spider-Man\" co-creator Stan Lee also has a cameo, in which he asks Peter, \"Hey kid, would you like a pair of these glasses? They're the kind they wore in \"X-Men\".\" The scene was cut, and Lee only briefly appears in the film to grab a young girl from falling debris during the battle between Spider-Man and the Green Goblin in Times Square. R&B/soul singer Macy Gray appears as herself. One of the stunt performers in the film is actor Johnny Tri Nguyen. Robert Kerman, best known for his performances in pornographic and exploitation films, has a bit part as a tugboat captain. Lucy Lawless makes a cameo as a punk rock girl. A then unknown Sara Ramirez makes a brief appearance as a cop at the scene of the carjacking. Other then unknowns included Octavia Spencer as the Check-In Girl who is reluctant to allow Peter to fight Bonesaw McGraw and Jim Norton as a truck driver who is the only person in the montage to criticize the appearance of Spider-Man. Famous background extra Jesse Heiman makes an appearance as a spectator during the fight between Peter and Flash. It was also intended for Hugh Jackman to make a cameo appearance in the film as Logan / Wolverine, reprising the role from 2000's \"X-Men\", but the plan was abandoned because Jackman's Wolverine costume could not be found. The novelization of \"Spider-Man\" identifies Liz Allan as the character portrayed by Sally Livingstone.\n\nIn April 1999, although Sony Pictures optioned from Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer all preceding script versions of a \"Spider-Man\" film, it only exercised the options on \"the Cameron material,\" which contractually included a multi-author screenplay and a forty-five page \"scriptment\" credited only to James Cameron. The studio announced they were not hiring Cameron himself to direct the film nor would they be using his script. The studio lined up Roland Emmerich, Tony Scott, Chris Columbus, Ang Lee, David Fincher, Jan de Bont and M. Night Shyamalan as potential directors. Fincher did not want to depict the origin story, pitching the film as being based on \"The Night Gwen Stacy Died\" storyline, but the studio disagreed. Sam Raimi was attached to direct in January 2000, for a summer 2001 release. He had been a fan of the comic book during his youth, and his passion for \"Spider-Man\" earned him the job.\n\nCameron's work became the basis of David Koepp's first draft screenplay, often word for word. Cameron's versions of the Marvel villains Electro and Sandman remained the antagonists. Koepp's rewrite substituted the Green Goblin as the main antagonist and added Doctor Octopus as the secondary antagonist. Raimi felt the Green Goblin and the surrogate father-son theme between Norman Osborn and Peter Parker would be more interesting, thus, he dropped Doctor Octopus from the film. In June, Columbia hired Scott Rosenberg to rewrite Koepp's material. Remaining a constant in all the rewrites was the \"organic webshooter\" idea from the Cameron \"scriptment\". Raimi felt he would stretch the audience's suspension of disbelief too far to have Peter invent mechanical webshooters.\n\nRosenberg removed Doctor Octopus and created several new action sequences. Raimi felt adding a third origin story would make the film too complex. Sequences removed from the final film had Spider-Man protecting Fargas, the wheelchair-using Oscorp executive, from the Goblin, and Spider-Man defusing a hostage situation on a train. As production neared, producer Laura Ziskin hired her husband, award-winning writer Alvin Sargent, to polish the dialogue, primarily between Peter and Mary Jane. Columbia gave the Writers Guild of America a list of four writers as contributors to the final \"Spider-Man\" script: Rosenberg, Sargent and James Cameron, all three of whom voluntarily relinquished credit to the fourth, Koepp.\n\nWith \"Spider-Man\" cast, filming was set to begin the following November in New York City and on Sony soundstages. The film was set for release a year later, but when the film was postponed to be released on May 3, 2002, filming officially began on January 8, 2001 in Culver City, California. After the terrorist attacks on September 11, 2001, certain sequences were re-filmed, and images of the Twin Towers were digitally erased from the film. Sony's Stage 29 was used for Peter's Forest Hills home, and Stage 27 was used for the wrestling sequence where Peter takes on Bonesaw McGraw (Randy Savage). Stage 27 was also used for the complex Times Square sequence where Spider-Man and the Goblin battle for the first time, where a three-story set with a breakaway balcony piece was built. The scene also required shooting in Downey, California. On March 6, 45-year-old construction worker Tim Holcombe was killed when a forklift modified as a construction crane crashed into a construction basket that he was in. The following court case led to the California Division of Occupational Safety and Health to fine Sony $58,805.\n\nIn Los Angeles, locations included the Natural History Museum (for the Columbia University lab where Peter is bitten and receives his powers), the Pacific Electricity Building (the \"Daily Bugle\" offices) and Greystone Mansion (for the interiors of Norman Osborn's home). In April, 4 of the Spider-Man costumes were stolen, and Sony put up a $25,000 reward for their return. They were recovered after 18 months and a former movie studio security guard and an accomplice were arrested. Production moved to New York City for two weeks, taking in locations such as the Queensboro Bridge, the exteriors of Columbia University's Low Memorial Library and the New York Public Library, and a rooftop garden in the Rockefeller Center. The crew returned to Los Angeles where production and filming ended in June. The Flatiron Building was used for the \"Daily Bugle\".\n\nBefore settling on the look used in the film, the original headgear created for the Green Goblin was an animatronic mask created by Amalgamated Dynamics. The design was much more faithful to the comics than the finished product, and allowed for a full range of emotions to be expressed by the wearer. Ultimately, the mask was scrapped before an actor was chosen to play the Green Goblin, and a static helmet was produced for the film instead.\n\nAlthough it wound up being faithful to the comics, many designs were made for Spider-Man's costumes: one concept costume designer James Acheson became fond of was the idea of having a red emblem over a black costume. Another, which would eventually lead to the final product, featured an enlarged logo on the chest and red stripes going down the sides of the legs. To create Spider-Man's costume, Maguire was fitted for the skintight suit, being covered with layers of substance to create the suit's shape. It was designed as a single piece, including the mask. A hard shell was worn underneath the mask to make the shape of the head look better and to keep the mask tight while keeping the wearer comfortable. For scenes where he would take his mask off, there was an alternate suit where the mask was a separate piece. The webbing, which accented the costume, was cut by computer. The mask eye lenses were designed to have a mirror look.\n\nVisual effects supervisor John Dykstra was hired to produce the film's visual effects in May 2000. He convinced Raimi to make many of the stunts computer-generated, as they would have been physically impossible. Raimi had used more traditional special effects in his previous films and learned a lot about using computers during production. Raimi worked hard to plan all the sequences of Spider-Man swinging from buildings, which he described as, \"ballet in the sky.\" The complexity of such sequences meant the budget rose from an initially planned $70 million to around $100 million. Shots were made more complicated because of the main characters' individual color schemes, so Spider-Man and the Green Goblin had to be shot separately for effects shots: Spider-Man was shot in front of a greenscreen, while the Green Goblin was shot against bluescreen. Shooting them together would have resulted in one character being erased from a shot.\n\nDykstra said the biggest difficulty of creating Spider-Man was that as the character was masked, it immediately lost a lot of characterization. Without the context of eyes or mouth, a lot of body language had to be put in so that there would be emotional content. Raimi wanted to convey the essence of Spider-Man as being, \"the transition that occurs between him being a young man going through puberty and being a superhero.\" Dykstra said his crew of animators had never reached such a level of sophistication to give subtle hints of still making Spider-Man feel like a human being. When two studio executives were shown shots of the computer generated character, they believed it was actually Maguire performing stunts. In addition, Dykstra's crew had to composite areas of New York City and replaced every car in shots with digital models. Raimi did not want it to feel entirely like animation, so none of the shots were 100% computer-generated.\n\nAfter the terrorist attacks on the United States on September 11, 2001, Sony had to recall teaser posters which showed a close-up of Spider-Man's face with the New York skyline (including, prominently, the World Trade Center towers) reflected in his eyes. The film's original teaser trailer, released in 2001 and shown before \"\", \"\", \"Jurassic Park III\", \"Planet of the Apes\", and \"American Pie 2\", featured a mini-film plot involving a group of bank robbers escaping in a Eurocopter AS355 Twin Squirrel helicopter, which gets caught from behind and propelled backward into what at first appears to be a net, then is shown to be a gigantic spider web spun between the World Trade Center towers. According to Sony, the trailer did not contain any actual footage from the film itself and is consequently one of the most popular \"Special Shoot\" trailers since \"\". The trailer and poster were pulled after the events of the attacks, but can be found on the internet on websites such as YouTube.\n\nBefore the film's British theatrical release in June 2002, the British Board of Film Classification (BBFC) gave the film a \"12\" certificate. Due to \"Spider-Man\"s popularity with younger children, this prompted much controversy. The BBFC defended its decision, arguing that the film could have been given a \"15\". Despite this, North Norfolk and Breckland District Councils, in East Anglia, changed it to a \"PG\", and Tameside council, Manchester, denoted it a \"PG-12\". The U.S. rated it \"PG-13\" for \"stylized violence and action\". In late August, the BBFC relaxed its policy to \"12A\", leading Sony to re-release the film.\n\n\"Spider-Man\" became the first film to pass the $100 million mark in a single weekend, even when adjusting for inflation, with its $114,844,116 mark establishing a new opening weekend record. The gross surpassed the previous record holder's \"Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone\" $90 million opening; on this, Rick Lyman of \"The New York Times\" wrote, \"while industry executives had expected a strong opening for the film because there was little competition in the marketplace and prerelease polling indicated intense interest from all age groups, no one predicted that \"Spider-Man\" would surpass the \"Harry Potter\" record.\"\n\nThe film also set a record for crossing the $100 million milestone in 3 days, at the time being the fastest any film had reached the mark. This opening weekend haul had an average of $31,769 per theater, which at time, Box Office Mojo reported as being \"the highest per theater average ever for an ultra-wide release.\" The film's three-day record was surpassed by \"\" four years later. The $114.8 million opening weekend was the highest at the North America box office film for a non-sequel, until it was surpassed eight years later by \"Alice in Wonderland\".\n\nWith the release in the United States and Canada on May 3, 2002 on 7,500 screens at 3,615 theaters, the film earned $39,406,872 on its opening day, averaging $10,901 per theater. This was the highest opening day at the time until it was surpassed by its sequel \"Spider-Man 2\"s $40.4 million haul in 2004. \"Spider-Man\" also set an all-time record for the highest earnings in a single day with $43,622,264 on its second day of release, a record later surpassed by \"Shrek 2\" in 2004. On the Sunday during its opening weekend, the film earned an additional $31,814,980, the highest gross a film took in on a Sunday, at the time.\n\nThe film stayed at the top position in its second weekend, dropping only 38% and grossing another $71,417,527, while averaging $19,755.89 per theater. At the time, this was the highest-grossing second weekend of any film. During its second weekend, the film crossed the $200 million mark on its ninth day of release, also a record at the time. At the end of its second weekend, the film brought in a 10-day total of $223,040,031.\n\nThe film dropped to the second position in its third weekend, behind \"\", but still made $45,036,912, dropping only 37%, averaging $12,458 per theater, and bringing the 17-day tally to $285,573,668. Its third weekend haul set the record for highest-grossing third weekend, which was first surpassed by \"Avatar\" (2009). It stayed at the second position in its fourth weekend, grossing $35,814,844 over the four-day Memorial Day frame, dropping only 21% while expanding to 3,876 theaters, averaging $9,240 over four days, and bringing the 25-day gross to $333,641,492. In the box office, \"Spider-Man\" became 2002's highest-grossing film with $403,706,375 in the U.S. and Canada, defeating \"\" and \"Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones\".\n\n\"Spider-Man\" currently ranks as the 29th-highest-grossing film of all time in the U.S. and Canada, not adjusted for inflation. The film also grossed $418,002,176 from its international markets, bringing its worldwide total to $821,708,551, making it 2002's third-highest-grossing film behind \"The Lord of the Rings: The Two Towers\" and \"Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets\" and the 58th-highest-grossing film of all time, worldwide. The film sold an estimated 69,484,700 tickets in the US. It held the record for most tickets sold by a comic book movie until \"The Dark Knight\" topped it in 2008. Later few movies from the Marvel Cinematic Universe did surpass it. It is still the 5th highest grossing comic book movie of all time adjusted for inflation. Only \"Avengers: Infinity War\", \"The Dark Knight\", \"Black Panther\" and \"The Avengers\" have sold more tickets than \"Spider-Man\". \"Spider-Man\" was the highest-grossing superhero origin film, a record it held for 15 years until it was surpassed by \"Wonder Woman\" (2017). It is the eighth-highest-grossing superhero film, as well as eighth-highest-grossing comic book adaptation in general.\n\nInternational markets which generated grosses in excess of $10 million include Australia ($16.9 million), Brazil ($17.4 million), France, Algeria, Monaco, Morocco and Tunisia ($32.9 million), Germany ($30.7 million), Italy ($20.8 million), Japan ($56.2 million), Mexico ($31.2 million), South Korea ($16.98 million), Spain ($23.7 million), and the United Kingdom, Ireland and Malta ($45.8 million).\n\n\"Spider-Man\" became the highest-grossing superhero film of all time at the time of its release, both domestically and worldwide. Its domestic gross was eventually topped by \"The Dark Knight\" (2008). Its worldwide gross was first surpassed by \"Spider-Man 3\" (2007).\n\nOn the review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes the film has an approval rating of 90% based on 239 reviews, with an average rating of 7.7/10. The site's critical consensus reads, \"Not only does \"Spider-Man\" provide a good dose of web-swinging fun, it also has a heart, thanks to the combined charms of director Sam Raimi and star Tobey Maguire.\" On Metacritic, the film has an average score of 73 out of 100, based on 37 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\". Audiences polled by CinemaScore gave the film an average grade of \"A–\" on an A+ to F scale.\n\nThe casting, mainly Tobey Maguire, Willem Dafoe and JK Simmons, is often cited as one of the film's high points. Eric Harrison, of the \"Houston Chronicle\", was initially skeptical of the casting of Maguire, but, after seeing the film, he stated, \"within seconds, however, it becomes difficult to imagine anyone else in the role.\" \"USA Today\" critic Mike Clark believed the casting rivaled that of Christopher Reeve as 1978's \"Superman\". Owen Gleiberman, of \"Entertainment Weekly\", had mixed feelings about the casting, particularly Tobey Maguire. \"Maguire, winning as he is, never quite gets the chance to bring the two sides of Spidey—the boy and the man, the romantic and the avenger—together.\" \"The Hollywood Reporter\"s Kirk Honeycutt thought, \"the filmmakers' imaginations work in overdrive from the clever design of the cobwebby opening credits and Spider-Man and M.J.'s upside down kiss—after one of his many rescues of her—to a finale that leaves character relationships open ended for future adventures.\"\n\nConversely, \"LA Weekly\" Manohla Dargis wrote, \"It isn't that Spider-Man is inherently unsuited for live-action translation; it's just that he's not particularly interesting or, well, animated.\" Giving it 2.5/4 stars, Roger Ebert felt the film lacked a decent action element; \"Consider the scene where Spider-Man is given a cruel choice between saving Mary Jane or a cable car full of school kids. He tries to save both, so that everyone dangles from webbing that seems about to pull loose. The visuals here could have given an impression of the enormous weights and tensions involved, but instead the scene seems more like a bloodless storyboard of the idea.\" Stylistically, there was heavy criticism of the Green Goblin's costume, which led IGN's Richard George to comment years later, \"We're not saying the comic book costume is exactly thrilling, but the Goblin armor (the helmet in particular) from \"Spider-Man\" is almost comically bad... Not only is it not frightening, it prohibits expression.\"\n\n\"Entertainment Weekly\" put \"the kiss in \"Spider-Man\"\" on its end-of-the-decade \"best-of\" list, saying, \"There's a fine line between romantic and corny. And the rain-soaked smooch between Spider-Man and Mary Jane from 2002 tap-dances right on that line. The reason it works? Even if she suspects he's Peter Parker, she doesn't try to find out. And that's sexy.\" \"Empire\" magazine ranked \"Spider-Man\" 437 in its \"500 Greatest Movies of All Time\" list the following year.\n\nThe film won several awards ranging from Teen Choice Awards to the Saturn Awards, and was also nominated for two Academy Awards (Best Visual Effects and Best Sound (Kevin O'Connell, Greg P. Russell and Ed Novick), but lost to \"\" and \"Chicago\", respectively. While only Danny Elfman brought home a Saturn Award, Raimi, Maguire, and Dunst were all nominated for their respective positions. It also took home the People's Choice Award for \"Favorite Motion Picture.\" The film was nominated for Favorite Movie at the Nickelodeon Kids' Choice Awards, but lost to \"Austin Powers in Goldmember\".\n\nIn January 2003, Sony revealed that a sequel to \"Spider-Man\" was in development, and would be produced and directed by Sam Raimi. On March 15, 2003, a trailer revealed that the film, \"Spider-Man 2\", would be released in June 30, 2004. \"Spider-Man 3\", the second sequel to \"Spider-Man\" and the final film in the series to be directed by Raimi, was released on May 4, 2007. \"\" was an alternate sequel to the film unrelated to the events of the later \"Spider-Man 2\" and \"3\".\n\n\"Spider-Man\" was released on DVD and VHS on November 1, 2002. A Blu-ray release was followed on July 5, 2011. \"Spider-Man\" was also included in the \"Spider-Man Legacy Collection\", which includes 5 Spider-Man films in a 4K UHD Blu-ray collection, which was released on October 17, 2017.\n\nThe film's American television rights (Fox, TBS/TNT) were sold for $60 million. Related gross toy sales were $109 million. Its American DVD revenue by July 2004 was $338.8 million. Its American VHS revenue by July 2004 was $89.2 million. As of 2006, the film has grossed a total revenue of from box office and home video sales.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50508937", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50508937", "title": "Starpoint Gemini Warlords", "text": "Starpoint Gemini Warlords\n\nStarpoint Gemini Warlords is a blend of space trading and combat simulator, role-playing and 4X video game developed by Croatian-based Little Green Men Games and published by Iceberg Interactive. \"Starpoint Gemini Warlords\" is a spin-off title to the space sim \"Starpoint Gemini 2\", which was released in 2014.\n\nLittle Green Men Games developed \"Starpoint Gemini 2\" based on the community feedback and suggestions in the Steam Early Access program. Although most of the popular suggestions made it in the game, some of the ideas could not be implemented in \"Starpoint Gemini 2\". The feature requests not suitable for \"Starpoint Gemini 2\" were kept on a wishlist and became the base of the new spin-off title \"Starpoint Gemini Warlords\". Just like its predecessor, \"Starpoint Gemini Warlords\" will go through Early Access where the developers intend to implement feature suggestions from their community and change the game according to their feedback. The game was scheduled to stay approximately 6 to 12 months in Steam Early Access and was finished and released after 11 months. \n\n\"Starpoint Gemini Warlords\" is a role-playing space sim with a 4X layer. Players can captain various space ships ranging from gunships to carriers and give orders to war fleets on the strategy map. The game takes place in the Gemini System and features pre-scripted story missions (Campaign) and a free roam mode (Conquest).\n\n\"Starpoint Gemini Warlords\" was released on May 23 2017 on Steam and GoG in two versions - Standard and Deluxe Edition. Deluxe Edition includes 160 page full color Artbook, Original Game Soundtrack composed by Nikola Nikita Jeremić, selection of wallpapers and Twitch Overlays. \n"}
{"id": "50032697", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50032697", "title": "Surprise (web series)", "text": "Surprise (web series)\n\nSurprise (simplified Chinese: 万万没想到) is a 2013–2015 Chinese web series directed by Jiaoshou. It was first released on August 6, 2013 on Youku. The show ran for 3 seasons.\n\nIn 2015, Jiaoshou directed a major motion picture based on this show, also titled \"Surprise\".\n\n\n\"Surprise\" tells an inconceivable story of Wang Dachui (White. K), a young loser, in an exaggerated and humorous way. As a famous loser in career, medical science, and engagement, his daily life is colorful and unpredictable. The story is combined with funny elements, transcending time and career life. Ranging from the current hot topics to the classic stories in history are included in the plot.\n"}
{"id": "17365383", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17365383", "title": "Tamborera", "text": "Tamborera\n\nTamborera is a genre of Panamanian folk music. It is a mixture of Panamanian Tamborito and Cuban Danzón, created by the musician Ricardo Fabrega during the first half of the twentieth century.\n\nThe Tamborera was created by Ricardo Fabrega in the first half of the 20th century, to exalt nationalism and identify the Panamanians with their traditions.\n\nThis is recognized by journalist Ignacio Nacho Valdes, who said: \"His compositions, of a deep romantic content, have the purpose of exalt the national soul of Panamanians, and therefore, through generations, our people have sung his songs sometimes with joy and often with a deep melancholy. \"His music traveled to all corners of the country and internationally and has been the enjoyment of all classes\n\nThe Tamborera became known throughout Latin America with the famous song \"Guararé\" that is today part of the classics of Latin American music, with \"Santiagueñita\", \"Chiricanita\", \"Agüita de canela\", \"Mi negro\", \"El filo\", \"Chichaco por los aires\" and \" Tan Bella y Presumida\"\n\nThe genre gave life to real stars. Among these the most famous was Silvia De Grasse who brought her career to developing gender cusp outside the Panamanian border, especially in Puerto Rico, where she was recognized by the Puerto Rican television for her talent.\n\nPanamanian drums mixed: Repicador, Pujador and Caja, with instruments that are not part of the national foclore as organ, piano, electric guitar, trumpet, bass guitar and drums.\n\n\nThe Panamanian Tamborera was introduced to Venezuela in the early 1970s, by the famous Gaitas singer Nelson Martinez with the group Gran Coquivacoa. His rhythm is 2x4 as the Panamanian tamborito, and was initially played with cuatro, furro, tambora, charrasca and maracas. Soon were added bass, piano, electric guitar, congas, bongos, cowbell and even brass (trumpet, trombone and saxophone) and drums. Since the late 70s and early 80s Gaitas Tamborera was influenced by Caribbean music, especially the Salsa.\n\nThe most important instruments in tamborera music are the percussion, which consist of several characteristic instruments: tamboras, furro, charrasca, and maracas.\n\nApart from percussion, other core instruments are the guitar and piano. Depending on the performing artist, other melodic instruments, such as the trumpets and trombones can be used as accompaniment as well. Tamborera music typically features a vocalist as well.\n\nTamborera lyrics are structured to include three verses and a chorus, with each line made up of eight syllables. Initially written about the daily life of people in nature, tamborera lyrics now range from simple phrases and words, like \"tamborera\" repeated with little creativity, to romantic love songs, to radical verses of protest.\n\nBecause of the tropical Caribbean undertones of the tamborera, this genre is musically different from its ancestral gaita de tambora or other gaitas. Tamborera music generally utilizes a 2/4 or 4/4 time signature, but this is prone to waver with great usage of syncopation. The four percussion instruments (tamboras, furro, charrasca, maracas) layer several different rhythmic patterns together at the same time, but it is always the tamboras that lay down the foundation of the tamborera by providing the main beat.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3350339", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3350339", "title": "The Conservatory of Dance", "text": "The Conservatory of Dance\n\nThe Conservatory of Dance is a ballet school in Rocklin, California, USA and is also the official ballet school and training space for Ballet Rejoice Christian dance company. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "193342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=193342", "title": "Tick (comics)", "text": "Tick (comics)\n\nThe Tick is a fictional superhero created by cartoonist Ben Edlund in 1986 as a newsletter mascot for the New England Comics chain of Boston area comic book stores. The character is a spoof of American comic book superheroes.\n\nAfter its creation, the character spun off into an independent comic book series in 1988, and gained mainstream popularity through an animated TV series on Fox in 1994. Two live-action TV series, a video game and various merchandise have also been based on the character. IGN's list of the Top 100 Comic Book Heroes of All Time ranked The Tick as #57.\n\nIn 1986, 18-year-old cartoonist Ben Edlund created The Tick as a mascot for a newsletter of the Norwood, Massachusetts store New England Comics where he was a customer. Edlund expanded this into stories, beginning with the three-page tale \"The Tick\" in \"New England Comics Newsletter\" #14–15 (July/August – \nSeptember/October 1986), in which the hero escapes from a mental institution. The character became popular and the store financed a black-and-white comic book series, with the first issue released in June, 1988, and subsequently reprinted at least nine times through the next decade, including later editions with additional content. The Tick's sidekick, Arthur, was introduced in \"The Tick\" #4 (April 1989).\n\nSpin-offs followed featuring characters such as Paul the Samurai, Man-Eating Cow, and Chainsaw Vigilante. Edlund continued to write and illustrate these projects initially through his years as an undergraduate film student at the Massachusetts College of Art. The \"Chainsaw Vigilante\" spin-off, which was never completed, was written and illustrated by Zander Cannon. Other series, such as the second \"Paul the Samurai\" series and the \"Man-Eating Cow\" series, were written by North Carolina writer Clay Griffith.\n\nIn 1994, the Fox network introduced \"The Tick\" as a Saturday morning cartoon series, which Edlund wrote and co-produced. Lasting three seasons, the animated series would provide The Tick's greatest mainstream fame. Townsend Coleman voiced the title character and Micky Dolenz played his sidekick Arthur, in season 1. Rob Paulsen took over the Arthur role during seasons 2 and 3. The series also featured Die Fledermaus, Sewer Urchin and American Maid. Reruns on Comedy Central helped make the series a cult hit with adults. The 1997 book \"The Tick: Mighty Blue Justice!\" by Greg Hyland (creator of Lethargic Lad) was published as a tie-in with the animated series.\n\nIn 2001, Fox introduced a live-action TV series (produced by Columbia TriStar Television), written and executive produced by Edlund. The series starred Patrick Warburton as The Tick, David Burke as Arthur, Nestor Carbonell as Batmanuel and Liz Vassey as Captain Liberty. The series was short lived, however, and it only lasted nine episodes. A DVD release of the complete series (including several unaired episodes) was released on September 30, 2003.\nIn June 2005, the Toon Disney network began airing \"The Tick\" animated series. The series also occasionally aired on ABC Family as part of the Jetix cartoon block. The following year, Buena Vista Home Entertainment released the first season of \"The Tick\" animated series on DVD. The second season was released on August 7, 2007; however, both collections were missing an episode for different reasons.\n\nIn July 2016, Amazon announced that a new live-action \"The Tick\" series, starring Peter Serafinowicz and directed by Wally Pfister, would air on Amazon Video. The pilot was picked up as a series and the first half of episodes (6 of 12) in season one were released on August 25, 2017. The second half of season one was released on February 23, 2018.\n\nThe Tick seems to have no memory of his life before being The Tick, and indeed not much memory of anything; more than likely due to frequent head injuries. Each media adaption has a different origin of the Tick:\n\nA square-jawed, muscular, bright blue-costumed figure with antennae sticking up from his head, The Tick is a surrealistic parody of superheroes, in the vein of Dave Sim's character, The Cockroach. He is well-intended, friendly, childlike, good-natured, high-spirited, bombastic, frequently obtuse, and prone to quipping odd, dim remarks and \"inspirational\" speeches filled with bizarre metaphors. The Tick is known for his nonsensical battle cry, \"Spoooooon!\", which he decided upon one day while eating a bowl of Drama Flakes cereal. Actor Patrick Warburton described his perception of The Tick character, as Warburton played him:\n\nOriginally, The Tick's costume was meant to be brown, but it was decided that blue looked better in print. In \"The Tick vs. The Tick\", wherein The Tick is confronted by Barry, an unstable pseudo-hero who also calls himself \"The Tick\", Barry wears a brown costume similar to The Tick's. The Tick is named after an arachnid, much like Spider-Man. The logo of the series also resembles that of the 1994 Spider-Man series. According to the live-action series, The Tick is 6 feet 6 inches tall, weighs 230 pounds (6 inches and 170 pounds less than his dimensions in the comic), and has blue hair and eyes.\n\nIn the comic series, The Tick gets a job at the \"Weekly World Planet\" newspaper. He works in the same office as Clark Oppenheimer, who is also a superhero called the Caped Wonder. Oppenheimer has all the typical Superman powers, including X-ray vision (\"see-through vision\"), super strength, invulnerability, flight, heat-vision (\"very hot vision\"), and super hearing. Consequently, he looks down on The Tick as a lower form of superhero with limited powers.\n\nLike many superheroes, The Tick has a sidekick, a rather plump former accountant named Arthur. Arthur wears a white moth suit that allows him to fly; however he is often mistaken for a bunny due to the long ear-like antennae of his costume and the fact that his wings are often folded up. The Tick is impulsive and Arthur serves as a sort of conscience. He also figures out the schemes of villains and formulates plans to stop them. Arthur's \"battle cry\" is \"Not in the face! Not in the face!\"\n\nIn the Amazon Prime video series, The Tick is fixated on Arthur, and even mentions at one point that his thinking is fuzzy when away from Arthur. Despite Arthur's repeated attempts to push The Tick away, the hero won't leave Arthur's side for long. The Tick also frequently talks about Destiny as if she is a literal person, guiding Arthur's path (\"Destiny gave him the suit. I just acted in more of a 'delivery man' role\"), alluding to the Parcae in Roman mythology. At one point, Arthur starts to believe that The Tick is merely another hallucination, but that thought is quickly dispelled when Arthur's sister, Dot, interacts with \"The Blue Guy.\" \n\nIn all of his incarnations, The Tick is surrounded by a cast of equally absurd heroes and villains, many of them parodies of popular comic book characters and character types. Few of the \"superheroes\" in the Tick mythos have powers that would measure up to those of DC Comics or Marvel Comics characters, but their foes are often equally silly and/or weak. The Tick lives in a city simply called \"The City\". In the animated series, The Tick was assigned to The City after his \"Cabinet of Terror\" (described by The Tick as the \"deadliest engine of destruction 1974 had to offer\") exploded, leaving him unharmed, during his city assignment selection trials at the National Super Institute Convention in Reno, Nevada. According to the series' companion book, \"The Tick: Mighty Blue Justice!\", at least one of the judges was amazed by this, awarding The Tick a score of 10 out of 10.\n\nThe Tick possesses superhuman strength and mass, which makes him capable of inflicting great damage on his surroundings if he is not careful. His full strength is never actually quantified, although he is at the very least capable of lifting whole cars with a single hand, and comfortably bending steel girders. In the pilot of the 2016 series, The Tick claims to have the strength of \"ten, perhaps twenty men - a crowded bus stop of men.\"\n\nThe Tick is also \"nigh-invulnerable\", which means it is almost impossible to injure him in any serious way (although he is vulnerable to feelings of pain and his antennae are particularly sensitive). Because of this he can survive moments of extreme stress, and has demonstrated this ability on numerous occasions. In one noteworthy instance, in the animated episode \"Evil Sits Down for a Moment\", he fell 4,000 feet out of the sky, crashing through the concrete road below into a subway tunnel, yet before he reached a stop he was subsequently hit by an oncoming train — and he survived it all without any lasting physical injury. Several powerful supervillains have been able to knock the Tick unconscious in several fights, but he never comes to any lasting harm. He also does not possess a super-powered immune system, as he has been seen sick with the common cold just like a normal person. One of the Tick's few limitations is that harming or removing his antennae will destroy his sense of balance. \n\nFinally, The Tick possesses something referred to as \"drama power\", or basically a tendency for The Tick's powers to increase as the situation becomes more dramatic. He can also survive in space without a suit, and under water without oxygen for \"at least\" a long time.\n\nIn the 2017 Amazon adaption, he is shown to be able to leap and bound great heights with ease and speed.\n\nThe Tick has been well received as a comic book character. \"Empire\" magazine ranked him as the 28th greatest comic book character of all time, stating that the Tick is a lovable lunk, given to overly dramatic declarations on behalf of justice. IGN ranked him as the 57th greatest comic book hero of all time, saying that if you like your heroes on the bizarre side, you won't find anyone more surreal than The Tick. IGN also stated that whatever his mental state, The Tick's adventures are thoroughly enjoyable on both the printed page and television. \"Wizard\" magazine rated him as the 187th greatest comic book character of all time.\n\n\nWhile \"The Tick\" comic book series included some extras, such as trading cards, the merchandising of The Tick increased dramatically with the launch of the animated series. Action figures, stickers, pogs, T-shirts, hats, party favors, costumes, and a board game were created. In addition, many fast food restaurant chains, such as Carl's Jr. and Taco Bell offered Tick-related giveaways.\n\nIn 1994, Fox Interactive also released a beat 'em up video game based on the animated series. The game, however, was not well received.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51898543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51898543", "title": "Timeline of Sky TV", "text": "Timeline of Sky TV\n\nThis is a timeline of the history of Sky TV.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13823064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13823064", "title": "UK Resistance", "text": "UK Resistance\n\nUK Resistance (also written as UK:Resistance, or simply UK:R) was a video games website founded in 1996 by Gary Cutlack and Jon M (under the pseudonyms Commander Zorg and Captain Jax). Originally a Sega news and reviews fansite, UK Resistance expanded its coverage across all formats, and developed a style depending more on satirical updates rather than its original UK news and reviews content. The site officially closed on March 29, 2011\n\nThe website is frequently referenced by games industry media, and its exposure led to a writer's position at \"Sega Saturn Magazine\" for Gary Cutlack. The website has been described by \"Edge\" as the place where \"Europe's Sega cognoscenti gathered to discuss the burning issues of the day\", and by \"Wired\" gaming blog as \"the popular taking-on-the-industry slam page\". The site was often linked to from other gaming blogs such as Kotaku and Joystiq.\n\nNotable updates from the website include the Blue Sky in Games campaign, a campaign to reintroduce light hearted environments and settings into video games, as opposed to the prevalence of \"realistic\" gang violence games such as \"Saints Row\". As UK Resistance themselves put it, \"We want to play in a HAPPY PRETEND LAND, not a shit version of an American slum full of mixed-race gangsters wearing licensed sportswear!\". The campaign was picked up by websites such as Eurogamer, who gave it their full backing, and \"PC Zone\", who called the campaign \"a just cause... that we heartily endorse\".\n\nUK Resistance was acquired by Shiny Media in June 2007, before being returned to the sole ownership of Cutlack in June 2008 in lieu of money owed to him by Shiny. In October 2007, UK Resistance was voted Best Non-Commercial Website or Blog at the inaugural Games Media Awards held at the Soho Revue Bar in London. Cutlack was also nominated for Best Writer In Specialist Media at the same event.\n\n"}
{"id": "20884728", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20884728", "title": "Wiere Brothers", "text": "Wiere Brothers\n\nThe Wiere Brothers were a comedy team who appeared in 1930s and 1940s films, and as live performers from the 1920s to the late 1960s. \n\nThe names of the three brothers were:\nThe Wiere Brothers were vaudeville performers who occasionally appeared in films and television. Their films include \"Hands Across the Border\" in 1944 with Roy Rogers, \"Road to Rio\" in 1947 with Bob Hope and Bing Crosby, and \"Double Trouble\" in 1967 as three detectives on the hunt for Elvis Presley. In 1962, the Wiere Brothers had their own television series called, \"Oh! Those Bells\", that aired on CBS. The show was created by Jules White who had previously directed the Three Stooges, Buster Keaton and Andy Clyde in short-subject films for Columbia Pictures. \"Oh! Those Bells\" included a lot of slapstick comedy but only 13 episodes were aired. The team was still appearing on television in 1970 on shows such as \"The Merv Griffin Show\" and \"Laugh-In\" and were still touring the same year. But after Sylvester's death in July 1970, Harry and Herbert Wiere discontinued their act. Harry Wiere did make one appearance on the TV series \"Bionic Woman\" in 1976 as the Tipsy Man.\n\nOne of their popular acts of the 1960s involved the three brothers playing the violin, guitar and bass fiddle, and Mildred Seymour, their accompanist, performing a classical piece on the grand piano. Herbert would try to do a serious number on the violin but would get frustrated with his brothers' hillbilly antics. With a shrug, Herbert would stop playing and decide to balance the violin on his chin. Harry would then notice Herbert's accomplishment and would take the guitar and balance it on his chin. This left Sylvester smiling blandly at the audience, still plucking his bass fiddle. When Sylvester sees Herbert and Harry balancing their instruments on their chins, he would do a long take, turning from his brothers to his huge bass fiddle and then back at them. Then, finally Sylvester would lift the bass fiddle in the air and balance it on his chin for the finale. The Wiere Brothers stage performances offered a unique blend of classical European musical tradition transitioning to the spirit of American western culture with comedic flare delighting audiences around the world. They performed four command performances for the queen of England.\n\nInga Wiere, a sister of Herbert, Harry and Sylvester Wiere, was married to dancer Jon Zerby. Together they were known as The Dancing Zerbys, a successful nightclub act in the 1940s and 1950s. Actress and dancer Kim Darby is their daughter.\n\n\n\n"}
