{"id": "2164054", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2164054", "title": "Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr", "text": "Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr\n\n‘Abdullah ibn Abi Bakr () (c.610–633) was a son of Abu Bakr the first Caliph, a brother of Aisha and a companion of the Islamic prophet Muhammad.\n\nHe was born in Mecca, the son of Abu Bakr ibn Abi Quhafa, from the Taym clan of the Quraysh tribe, and of Qutaylah bint Abd-al-Uzza, who was from the Amir ibn Luayy clan. His parents were divorced soon before or soon after his birth.\n\nWhen Muhammad and Abu Bakr fled from Mecca in September 622, Abu Bakr instructed Abdallah to listen to adult conversations and to report the day's news to them at the cave on Mount Thawr each night. Abdullah duly reported that the Quraysh had offered a hundred camels to anyone who captured Muhammad. Each morning, when he left the cave, the family servant would lead a flock of sheep over the same route to cover his tracks.\n\nA few months later, Abdullah emigrated to Medina in the company of his stepmother and two sisters.\n\nIn 630 Abdullah fought at the Siege of Ta'if, where the Thaqafite poet, Abu Mihjan, shot him with an arrow. This wound ultimately caused his death, although he survived for nearly three years afterwards.\n\nHe married Atiqa bint Zayd, a poet from the Adi clan of the Quraysh. This marriage was childless. It was said that Abdullah respected Atiqa's judgment more than his own and that he spent so much time with her that he neglected his duties to the Islamic state. Abu Bakr punished his son by ordering him to divorce her. Abdullah did as he was told but was grief-stricken. He wrote poetry for Atiqa:\n<poem>\"I have never known a man like me divorce a woman like her,\"\n\"nor any woman like her divorced for no fault of her own.\"</poem>\nIn the end, Abdullah was allowed to take Atiqa back before her waiting period was completed.\n\nAbdullah died in January 633, when his old wound from Ta'if flared up. His wife composed an elegy for him.\n<poem>\"I vow that my soul will remain in sorrow over thee\"\n\"and my skin will remain dusty\".</poem>\n\n"}
{"id": "282878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=282878", "title": "Ahad Ha'am", "text": "Ahad Ha'am\n\nAsher Zvi Hirsch Ginsberg (18 August 1856 – 2 January 1927), primarily known by his Hebrew name and pen name Ahad Ha'am (, lit. 'one of the people', Genesis 26:10), was a Hebrew essayist, and one of the foremost pre-state Zionist thinkers. He is known as the founder of cultural Zionism. With his secular vision of a Jewish \"spiritual center\" in Israel, he confronted Theodor Herzl. Unlike Herzl, the founder of political Zionism, Ha'am strived for \"a Jewish state and not merely a state of Jews\".\n\nAsher Zvi Hirsch Ginsberg (Ahad Ha'am) was born in Skvyra, in the Kiev Governorate of the Russian Empire (present-day Ukraine) to pious well-to-do Hasidic parents. At eight years old, he began to teach himself to read Russian. His father, Isaiah, sent him to heder until he was 12. When Isaiah became the administrator of a large estate in a village in the Kiev district, he moved the family there and took private tutors for his son, who excelled at his studies. Ginsberg was critical of the dogmatic nature of Orthodox Judaism but remained loyal to his cultural heritage, especially the ethical ideals of Judaism.\n\nIn 1908, following a trip to Palestine, Ginsberg moved to London to manage the office of the Wissotzky Tea company. He settled in Tel Aviv in early 1922, where he served as a member of the Executive Committee of the city council until 1926. Plagued by ill health, Ginsberg died there in 1927.\n\nIn his early thirties, Ginzberg returned to Odessa where he was influenced by Leon Pinsker, a leader of the Hovevei Zion (\"Lovers of Zion\") movement whose goal was settlement of Jews in Palestine. Unlike Pinsker, Ginsberg did not believe in political Zionism, which he fought, 'with a vehemence and austerity which embittered that whole period'. Instead he hailed the spiritual value of the Hebrew renaissance to counter the debilitating fragmentation (\"hitpardut\") in the diaspora, he believed that the ingathering of Jews in Palestine was not an answer. \"Kibbutz galuyoth\" was a messianic ideal rather than a feasible contemporary project. The real answer lay in achieving a spiritual centre, or 'central domicile', within Palestine, that of Eretz Israel, which would form an exemplary model for the dispersed world of Jewry in exile to imitate; a spiritual focus for the circumferential world of the Jewish diaspora. He split from the Zionist movement after the First Zionist Congress, because he felt that Theodor Herzl's program was impractical. From 1889 to 1906, Ginzberg flourished as a preeminent intellectual in Zionist politics.\n\nIn 1896, Ahad Ha'am founded the Hebrew monthly. Ha-Shiloaḥ, the leading Hebrew-language literary journal in the early twentieth century. It was published in Warsaw by Ahiasaf. It was a vehicle to promote Jewish nationalism and a platform for discussion of past and present issues relevant to Judaism. The name was taken from a river mentioned in Isaiah 8:6, “The waters of Shiloaḥ flow slowly,” alluding to the moderate stance of the paper.\n\nAhad Ha'am travelled frequently to Palestine and published reports about the progress of Jewish settlement there. They were generally glum. They reported on hunger, on Arab dissatisfaction and unrest, on unemployment, and on people leaving Palestine. In an essay soon after his 1891 journey to the area he warned against the 'great error', noticeable among Jewish settlers, of treating the \"fellahin\" with contempt, of regarding 'all Arabs a(s) savages of the desert, a people similar to a donkey'.\n\nAhad Ha'am made his first trip to Palestine in 1891. The trip was prompted by concern that the Jaffa members of B'nai Moshe were mishandling land purchases for prospective immigrants and contributing to soaring land prices. His reputation as Zionism's major internal critic has its roots in the essay \"A Truth from Eretz Yisrael\" published in pamphlet form shortly after his visit in 1891.\n\nIn 1891, Ahad Ha'am wrote about his perceptions of Palestine:\n\"We who live abroad are accustomed to believe that almost all Eretz Yisrael is now uninhabited desert and whoever wishes can buy land there as he pleases. But this is not true. It is very difficult to find in the land [ha'aretz] cultivated fields that are not used for planting. Only those sand fields or stone mountains that would require the investment of hard labour and great expense to make them good for planting remain uncultivated and that's because the Arabs do not like working too much in the present for a distant future. Therefore, it is very difficult to find good land for cattle. And not only peasants, but also rich landowners, are not selling good land so easily...We who live abroad are accustomed to believing that the Arabs are all wild desert people who, like donkeys, neither see nor understand what is happening around them. But this is a grave mistake. The Arab, like all the Semites, is sharp minded and shrewd. All the townships of Syria and Eretz Yisrael are full of Arab merchants who know how to exploit the masses and keep track of everyone with whom they deal – the same as in Europe. The Arabs, especially the urban elite, see and understand what we are doing and what we wish to do on the land, but they keep quiet and pretend not to notice anything. For now, they do not consider our actions as presenting a future danger to them. … But, if the time comes that our people's life in Eretz Yisrael will develop to a point where we are taking their place, either slightly or significantly, the natives are not going to just step aside so easily.\n\nIn his book \"Wrestling with Zion,\" he urged the Jews \"not to provoke the anger of the native people by doing them wrong...we should be cautious in our dealings with a foreign people among whom we returned to live, to handle these people with love and respect and, needless to say, with justice and good judgment. And what do our brothers do? Exactly the opposite! They were slaves in their Diasporas, and suddenly they find themselves with unlimited freedom, wild freedom that only a country like Turkey [the Ottoman Empire] can offer. This sudden change has planted despotic tendencies in their hearts, as always happens to former slaves [\"'eved ki yimlokh\" – when a slave becomes king – Proverbs 30:22]. They deal with the Arabs with hostility and cruelty, trespass unjustly, beat them shamefully for no sufficient reason, and even boast about their actions. There is no one to stop the flood and put an end to this despicable and dangerous tendency. Our brothers indeed were right when they said that the Arab only respects he who exhibits bravery and courage. But when these people feel that the law is on their rival's side and, even more so, if they are right to think their rival's actions are unjust and oppressive, then, even if they are silent and endlessly reserved, they keep their anger in their hearts. And these people will be revengeful like no other.\n\nAhad Ha'am believed that Zionism must bring Jews to Palestine gradually, while turning it into a cultural centre. At the same time, it was incumbent upon Zionism to inspire a revival of Jewish national life in the Diaspora. Only then would the Jewish people be strong enough to assume the mantle of building a nation state. He did not believe that the impoverished settlers of his day would ever build a Jewish homeland. He saw the Hovevei Zion movement of which he was a member as a failure because the new villages were dependent on the largess of outside benefactors.\n\nAhad Ha'am's ideas were popular at a very difficult time for Zionism, beginning after the failures of the first Aliya. His unique contribution was to emphasise the importance of reviving Hebrew and Jewish culture both in Palestine and throughout the Diaspora, something that was recognised only belatedly, when it became part of the Zionist program after 1898. Herzl did not have much use for Hebrew, and many wanted German to be the language of the Jewish state. Ahad Ha'am played an important role in the revival of the Hebrew language and Jewish culture, and in cementing a link between the proposed Jewish state and Hebrew culture.\n\nHis first article criticising practical Zionism, called \"Lo zu haderekh\" (\"This is not the way\") published in 1888 appeared in \"HaMelitz.\" In it, he wrote that the Land of Israel will not be capable of absorbing all of the Jewish Diaspora, not even a majority of them. Ahad Ha'am also argued that establishing a \"national home\" in Zion will not solve the \"Jewish problem\"; furthermore, the physical conditions in Eretz Yisrael will discourage Aliyah, and thus Hibbat Zion must educate and strengthen Zionist values among the Jewish people enough that they will want to settle the land despite the greatest difficulties. The ideas in this article became the platform for \"Benei Moshe \" (sons of Moses), a group he founded that year. Benei Moshe, active until 1897, worked to improve Hebrew education, build up a wider audience for Hebrew literature, and assist the Jewish settlements. Perhaps more significant was \"Derekh Kehayim\" (1889), Ha'am's attempt to launch a unique movement from a fundamentalist perspective incorporating all the elements of a national revival, but driven by force of intellect.\n\nHe eclipsed nationalists like Peretz Smolenskin arguing assimilative individualism in the west further alienated Russified Jewry, who were seeking to reduce migration: isolating it beggared Eastern European Jewry. Even those in \"Hovevei\" seeking to restrict emigration would, he feared, bring the extinguishment of national consciousness; and atomisation of Jewish identity. Only anti-Semitism had made Jews of us. \"Derekh\" argued that nations had waxed and waned throughout history, but nationalism had all but vanished from Jewish consciousness. Only a small group of nobles kept it going.\n\nThroughout the 1890s Ahad Ha'am worked to keep the flame of nationalism alive. Emphasis fell on moral concepts, honour of the flag, self-improvement, national revitalisation. He modernised the language of the Hasidic Court being held in reverence by Benei Moshe, who regarded his work with awe and respect. A departure occurred in \"Avdut betokh herut\" discussing pessimism about the future for independent Jewishness. Critic Simon Dubnov alluded to this but was compromised by his westernised idealizing of French Jewry. For the movement, the preoccupation with assimilation at Odessa was fatal for Ha'am's progressive Zionism. The requirement arose in 1891 for a \"spiritual centre\" in Palestine; Benei Moshe's implacable opposition to his support for Vladimir (Zeev] Tiomkin's ideal community at Jaffa compounded the controversy in \"Emet me'eretz Yisrael\" (\"The Truth from the Land of Israel.\")\n\nIn 1896, Ginsberg became editor of \"Hashiloah,\" a Hebrew monthly, a position he held for six years. After stepping down as editor in 1903, he went back to the business world with the Wissotzky Tea Company.\n\nIn 1897, following the Basel Zionist Congress calling for a Jewish national home \"recognized in international law\" (\"Volkerrechtlich\"), Ahad Ha'am wrote an article called \"Jewish State Jewish Problem\" ridiculing the idea of a \"Volkerrechtlich\" state given the pitiful plight of the Jewish settlements in Palestine at the time. He emphasised that without a Jewish nationalist revival abroad, it would be impossible to mobilise genuine support for a Jewish national home. Even if the national home were created and recognised in international law, it would be weak and unsustainable. In 1898, the Zionist Congress adopted the idea of disseminating Jewish culture in the Diaspora as a tool for furthering the goals of the Zionist movement and bringing about a revival of the Jewish people. Benei Moshe founded Rehovot, hoping it would become a model of self-sufficiency, and opened \"Achiasaf\", a Hebrew publishing company.\n\nAhad Ha'am's influence in the political realm can be ascribed to his charismatic personality and spiritual authority rather than his official functions. For the \"Democratic Faction\", the party that propagated cultural Zionism (founded in 1901 by Chaim Weizmann), he served \"as a symbol for the movement's culturalists, the faction's most coherent totem. He was, however, not – certainly not to the extent to which members of this group, especially Chaim Weizmann, would later contend – its chief ideological influence.\"\n\nAhad Ha'am was a talented negotiator. In this role he was engaged during the \"language controversy\" that accompanied the founding of the Haifa Technikum (today: the Technion) and in the negotiations culminating in the Balfour Declaration.\n\nMany cities in Israel have streets named after Ahad Ha'am. In Petah Tikva there is a high school named after him, Ahad Ha'am High School. There is also a room named after him at the Beit Ariela Library, Ahad Ha'am Room.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55922269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55922269", "title": "Alexis Kanyarengwe", "text": "Alexis Kanyarengwe\n\nColonel Alexis Kanyarengwe (1938–2006) was a Rwandan officer who fled Rwanda in 1980 amidst accusations that he was plotting against Juvénal Habyarimana. Despite being a Hutu, Kanyarengwe joined the Rwandan Patriotic Front (RPF), becoming its chairman. However, the real power broker was \"vice-chairman\" Paul Kagame.\n\nOn 28 March 1997, Kanyarengwe was sacked from his post as Interior minister after protesting Rwandan Patriotic Army massacres in his home prefecture of Ruhengeri. Ignace Karuhije, who also protested, was removed on the same day. On 15 February 1998, Kanyarengwe was finally replaced by Paul Kagame as chairman of the RPF.\n\n"}
{"id": "10927746", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10927746", "title": "Alina Ibragimova", "text": "Alina Ibragimova\n\nAlina Rinatovna Ibragimova (; born 28 September 1985) is a Russian-British violinist.\n\nIbragimova was born in Polevskoy, Russian SSR, to a Bashkir family. Her family was musical, and she began playing the violin at the age of 4. At 5 she started at the Gnessin State Musical College in Moscow, studying under Valentina Korolkova, and by the age of 6 had started her career by playing with various orchestras, including the Bolshoi Theatre Orchestra. She was aged 10 in 1996 when her father, Rinat Ibragimov, took up the post of principal double bass with the London Symphony Orchestra, and the family moved to England. In the following year, Ibragimova began her studies at the Yehudi Menuhin School (where her mother is professor of violin) under Natasha Boyarskaya.\n\nIn December 1998, Ibragimova performed with Nicola Benedetti at the opening ceremony of the 50th Anniversary of the Universal Declaration of Human Rights at UNESCO in Paris; they played Bach's double violin concerto under the baton of Yehudi Menuhin. Menuhin died three months later, and Ibragimova performed the slow movement of the same concerto at his funeral in Westminster Abbey.\n\nAfter finishing her studies at the Yehudi Menuhin School, Ibragimova went on to the Guildhall School of Music and Drama for a year, and then to the Royal College of Music, studying under Gordan Nikolitch. Ibragimova has also studied with Christian Tetzlaff since 2000, most recently under the auspices of the Kronberg Academy Masters programme.\n\nTogether with other students from the Royal College, she formed the period-instrument string quartet Chiaroscuro, specialising in music from the classical period.\n\nAfter winning several international competitions, in 2002 Ibragimova won the London Symphony Orchestra Music Scholarship (formerly the Shell Prize), which was an important boost to her solo career. The next breakthrough came in 2005 when Ibragimova played and directed Mozart's second violin concerto with the Kremerata Baltica in Mozartwoche at the Salzburg Mozarteum.\n\nIbragimova was a member of the BBC Radio 3 New Generation Artists scheme 2005-7. She has performed concertos with the London Symphony Orchestra, Deutsche Kammerphilharmonie Bremen, the Philharmonia Orchestra, City of Birmingham Symphony Orchestra, BBC Symphony Orchestra, Radio-Sinfonie-Orchester Frankfurt, and the Seattle Symphony, working with conductors including Sir Charles Mackerras, Valery Gergiev, Sir John Eliot Gardiner, Paavo Järvi, Richard Hickox and Osmo Vänskä. In 2012 Ibragimova directed a period-instrument orchestra, The Academy of Ancient Music, for the first time.\n\nFor recitals and chamber music, Ibragimova has appeared at venues including Wigmore Hall in London, Concertgebouw in Amsterdam, Mozarteum University of Salzburg, Musikverein in Vienna, Carnegie Hall in New York, the Palais des Beaux-Arts in Brussels. She has appeared at festivals including Salzburg, Verbier, MDR Musiksommer, Lockenhaus, Manchester International, and Aldeburgh. With her regular recital partner, Ibragimova performed the complete Beethoven violin sonatas at the Wigmore Hall London in 2009/10 (the recordings of which were released on the Wigmore Hall Live label). In 2015 she performed the six Bach Solo Sonatas and Partitas in the Royal Albert Hall as part of the Promenade Concerts. \n\nHer first CD for Hyperion Records was the complete violin works of Karl Amadeus Hartmann in 2007, which was followed by the two violin concertos of Nikolai Roslavets in 2008, a disc of the complete violin and piano works by Karol Szymanowski, and the JS Bach Sonatas and Partitas for solo violin in 2009.\n\nIbragimova has been the recipient of a number of awards including the Royal Philharmonic Society Young Artist Award 2010, and Emily Anderson Prize (the youngest-ever winner), Borletti-Buitoni Trust, and a Classical BRIT. She performs on a c.1775 Anselmo Bellosio provided by Georg von Opel.\n\nShe was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire (MBE) in the 2016 New Year Honours for services to music.\n\nSince 2015 Ibragimova has been married to writer and classical music critic Tom Service, whom she met when he interviewed her for \"The Guardian\". They live in Greenwich, London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20724602", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20724602", "title": "Ato Agustin", "text": "Ato Agustin\n\nRenato \"Ato\" Agustin (born August 1, 1963) is a Filipino former professional basketball player and current coach. He played college basketball for the Lyceum of the Philippines before moving on to play professional basketball in the Philippine Basketball Association.\n\nAgustin was the Most Valuable Player awardee of the PBA in 1992. He played for the San Miguel Beermen, Sunkist/Pop Cola, the Sta. Lucia Realtors, and finally, Batang Red Bull. Agustin was named a member of the PBA's 25 Greatest Players in 2000. He also had a brief stint in with the Pampanga Dragons in the Metropolitan Basketball Association.\n\nA shooting guard since his amateur days with RFM-Swift Corporation of the Philippine Basketball League, Agustin saw limited minutes during his rookie season with the grandslam-winning San Miguel Beermen in 1989, playing backup to his more illustrious teammates Samboy Lim and Elmer Reyes. However, beginning the 1990 season, he became a regular part of the Beermen's backcourt rotation with the departure of Reyes to expansion team Pop-Cola (RFM) and constant injuries to Lim and Hector Calma. Coach Norman Black would sometimes play Agustin at point guard until he became an adept combo guard.\n\nHe is the former head coach of the San Sebastian Golden Stags men's basketball team in the NCAA, having taken over from Jorge Gallent in 2009, and winning a championship in the same year. In 2010, he became head coach of his former PBA team, the San Miguel Beermen. During the 2011 PBA Governors' Cup, Agustin steered the team (then known as the Petron Blaze Boosters) to the championship, defeating the Talk 'N Text Tropang Texters in seven games. He became the 9th coach in PBA history to win a title in his first year as head coach.\nOn July 25, 2013, San Miguel Corporation, owner of Petron Blaze Boosters and Barangay Ginebra San Miguel, announced the appointment of Agustin as interim coach of Barangay Ginebra San Miguel for the 2013 PBA Governor's Cup.\n\nOn January 5, 2015, Barangay Ginebra team manager Alfrancis Chua announced during the team's practice the reappointment of Agustin as head coach of the team. This is after former coach Jeffrey Cariaso's attempt to end Ginebra's PBA championship drought failed after two conferences. After a quarterfinal finish in the Commissioner's Cup, Agustin was fired as the head coach of Ginebra and was replaced by assistant coach Frankie Lim. Following his termination, he returned to San Miguel Beermen as an assistant coach.\n\n"}
{"id": "4779457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4779457", "title": "Chris Brink", "text": "Chris Brink\n\nChris Brink, CBE, FRSSAf (born 31 January 1951) is a South African mathematician and academic. He was the Vice-Chancellor of Newcastle University between 2007 and December 2016.\n\nAfter graduating with a degree in maths and computer science from Rand Afrikaans University, Brink undertook post-graduate study at Rhodes University and the University of Cambridge. He became professor and head of mathematics and applied mathematics at the University of Cape Town in 1995, pro-vice-chancellor (research) at the University of Wollongong in 1999 and rector and vice-chancellor of Stellenbosch University in 2002 before being appointed vice-chancellor of Newcastle University in 2007.\n\nIn the 1980s Chris Brink was a senior research fellow at the Australian National University. In 1994 he joined with Gunther Schmidt to organize at Dagstuhl the initial RAMiCS conference on relation algebra. In 1996 The Foundation for Research Development in South Africa rated Chris Brink in category A. He is a fellow of the Royal Society of South Africa, a former President of the South African Mathematical Society, a Founder Member of the Academy of Science of South Africa and a former chair of the Advisory Board of the African Institute of Mathematical Sciences.\n\nHe chaired the Student Policy Network (part of Universities UK) and the N8 Research Partnership, a group of eight research-intensive universities in the North of England. Nationally he has served on the Board of the Equality Challenge Unit (including two years as a Co-Chair), the Board of the Quality Assurance Agency (and its Advisory Committee on Degree-Awarding Powers), and the Advisory Committee on Leadership, Governance and Management of the Higher Education Funding Council for England.\n\nIn November 2015, it was announced that Brink would be retiring in December 2016. He was succeeded by Professor Chris Day, the current Pro-Vice-Chancellor for the Faculty of Medical Sciences at Newcastle, in January 2017.\n\nSince 2017 Brink has served on the University Grants Committee (Hong Kong), where he chairs the 2020 Research Assessment Exercise Group. His book The Soul of a University – Why excellence is not enough was published by Bristol University Press in July 2018. It deals with the role of universities in society, and elaborates on the two key questions he became known for while at Newcastle University: ‘What are we good at?’, and ‘What are we good for?’ He was appointed a CBE in the Queen's Birthday Honours List in 2018.\n\nChris Brink developed the study of Boolean modules over relation algebras. He focused on formal aspects of computer science with emphasis on program semantics and Popper's concept of verisimilitude and on the universal-algebraic concept of power structures.\n\n"}
{"id": "12188591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12188591", "title": "Dimitrija Demeter", "text": "Dimitrija Demeter\n\nDimitrios Dimitriou sometimes spelled Dimitrija Demeter or Dimitrije Demeter; 21 July 1811 – 24 June 1872) was a Greek Croatian poet, dramatist, short story writer and literary critic. One of the most learned people of his time, he played a major role in the movement for the national awakening of the Croatian nation (then under Austro-Hungarian rule) as part of what he and his close friend and colleague Ljudevit Gaj called the Illyrian people by imposing the Croatian language in the local literacy and with the creation of the Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb. His political activism for a Croatian national revival dealt through his participation in many patriotic pamphlets, most notably the Narodne novine and Hrvatski Sokol among many others.\n\nHe was born in a wealthy merchant family of Greek origin. His parents Theodoros (') and Afrati (') came to Austria-Hungary at 1790 from the city of Siatista, then under Ottoman rule. He studied philosophy in Graz and medicine in Vienna and Padua. During his studies he practiced his literary work and after his return to Croatia he joined the Illyrian movement. At first he worked as a physician and from 1841 his main preoccupation was literary work.\n\nDemeter began his literary career writing Greek poetry from a very early age. He wrote his first drama \"Βιργινία\" (Virginia) at the age of 16 (also in the Greek language). In his most known drama \"Teuta\", which functioned as the first national drama of the Croats, he advocates the idea about Illyrian origin of all South Slavs. He also wrote short stories, feuilletons, literary critics, librettos for Vatroslav Lisinski opera's \"Ljubav i zloba\" and \"Porin\" and for his dramas \"Dramatička pokušenja I.\" (1834) and \"Dramatička pokušenja II.\" (1844). In his texts he tried to join the tradition of the old Croatian literature with tendentions in European drama. He mostly used historical subjects to express his patriotic aspirations and to speak out about the current social situation in society. His role in organizing the cultural life in Zagreb and Croatia was of extreme significance. He was also editor or various almanacs of patriotic orientation: \"Iskra\", \"Südslavische Zeitung\", \"Danica\", \"Narodne novine\" and \"Hrvatski Sokol\".\n\nOne of his most known works is his early Romantic poem \"Grobnik field\" (near Rijeka) written in 1842 for the 600th anniversary of the Battle of Grobnik field where according to legend Croats defeated the invading Tatars. This works shows it was written by an extremely talented writer, although it was only his literary debut. In it two main motives interweave: the motive of countryside and the motive of patriotism. Also inspired by Byron the concept of \"worldwide pain\" appears. Demeter used 10-syllable verse and 12-syllable verse to avoid monotonous routine of traditional folk songs while emphasizing characterization and strong characters of the main heroes and their passion. Instead of narrative epic tendency he gives to his poems a strong dramatic characteristics which reminds us Byron's literary work.\n\nDemeter's main spiritual vision emphasizes on the general problems of humanity styling on the battle between good and evil where at the end the good always prevails. This type of Demeter's poems in many of his works, both by verse and rhyme, announces the most important literary work in Croatian literature of the time: the epic poem \"The Death of Smail-aga Čengić\" written by Ivan Mažuranić in 1845. Among Demeter's poems a special place also takes his \"Pjesma Hrvata\" (\"Song of the Croats\") which is an 8-syllable verse most known by its starting verse \"Prosto zrakom ptica leti\".\n\nDimitrija Demeter was also one of the founders of the Croatian National Theatre (Hrvatsko Narodno Kazalište - HNK). When the Croatian Parliament founded the permanent theatre, Demeter was appointed as both its manager and its dramatist. 35 years after his death, in 1907, \"Demeter's award for drama\" was established which stood until nowadays.\nDemeter died in Zagreb on 24 June 1872 and since he was a Greek-Othodox he was originally buried at the Orthodox cemetery in Pantovčak neighborhood. Upon the closure of most old cemeteries in Zagreb in the 1870s and the designation of Mirogoj Cemetery as the primary municipal cemetery, his remains were moved to Mirogoj several years later, where they are still kept today. His bust decorates the yard of Croatian National Theatre in Zagreb.\n\n"}
{"id": "51251893", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51251893", "title": "Donald Trump Supreme Court candidates", "text": "Donald Trump Supreme Court candidates\n\nWith the advice and consent of the United States Senate, the President of the United States appoints the members of the Supreme Court of the United States, which is the highest court of the federal judiciary of the United States. Following his victory in the 2016 presidential election, Republican Donald Trump took office as president on January 20, 2017, and faced an immediate vacancy on the Supreme Court due to the February 2016 death of Associate Justice Antonin Scalia. During the 2016 campaign, Trump had released two lists of potential nominees to the Supreme Court. After taking office, he nominated Neil Gorsuch to succeed Scalia, and Gorsuch was confirmed in April 2017. In November 2017, five more names were added to the previous lists of potential nominees. In June 2018, Associate Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement, creating a second vacancy on the Supreme Court. In early July 2018, Trump nominated Brett Kavanaugh as his replacement, Kavanaugh was confirmed on October 6, 2018.\n\nBoth the Gorsuch and Kavanaugh confirmations were enabled by a rule change made by the Senate Republican majority in April 2017, which applied the so-called nuclear option to Supreme Court nominees and allowed nominations to be advanced by a simple majority vote rather than the historical norm of a three-fifths supermajority vote.\n\nPresident Trump began his term in January 2017 with a vacancy to be filled as a result of the February 2016 death of Justice Antonin Scalia. As three of the Court's justices at the time—Ruth Bader Ginsburg (born 1933), Anthony Kennedy (born 1936) and Stephen Breyer (born 1938)—were aged 78 or older, speculation arose that additional vacancies could occur during Trump's four-year presidential term. Because Ginsburg and Breyer were part of the liberal wing of the Court and Kennedy was a swing vote who often aligned with them on social issues, many top political analysts saw Trump's term as a chance for Republicans to reshape the court significantly towards a more conservative vision of the law. On June 27, 2018, this became a real possibility when Justice Kennedy officially announced his retirement.\n\nFollowing the confirmation of Brett Kavanaugh on October 6, 2018, the Supreme Court is currently composed of the following nine Justices:\nOn February 13, 2016, Associate Justice Antonin Scalia was found dead while vacationing at Cibolo Creek Ranch near Marfa, Texas. Scalia's death marked just the second time in sixty years that a sitting Supreme Court Justice died. It led to a rare but not unprecedented Supreme Court nomination during the last year of a presidency.\n\nMitch McConnell, the Senate Majority Leader, stated the new President should replace Scalia, while President Obama stated that he planned to nominate someone to replace Scalia on the Supreme Court. On February 23, the eleven Republican members of the Senate Judiciary Committee signed a letter to McConnell stating their intention to withhold consent on any nominee made by President Obama, and that no hearings would occur until after January 20, 2017, when the new president took office. On March 16, 2016, Obama nominated then-Chief Judge Merrick Garland (of the United States Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit), to replace Scalia. After Garland's nomination, McConnell reiterated his position that the Senate would not consider any Supreme Court nomination until a new president took office. Garland's nomination expired on January 3, 2017, with the 114th Senate having taken no action on the nomination.\n\nDuring his 2016 presidential campaign, while Garland remained before the Senate, Trump released two lists of potential nominees. On May 18, 2016, he released a short list of eleven judges for nomination to the Scalia vacancy. On September 23, 2016, he released a second list of ten possible nominees, this time including three minorities. Both lists were assembled by the Federalist Society and the Heritage Foundation. Days after Trump's inauguration, \"Politico\" named three individuals as the front-runners for Scalia's position: Neil Gorsuch, Thomas Hardiman and Bill Pryor, with Trump reportedly later narrowing his list down to Gorsuch and Hardiman. At the time of the nomination, Gorsuch, Hardiman, and Pryor were all federal appellate judges who had been appointed by President George W. Bush. President Trump and White House Counsel Don McGahn interviewed those three individuals as well as Judge Amul Thapar of the U.S. District Court for Eastern District of Kentucky in the weeks before the nomination. Trump announced Gorsuch as his nominee on January 31. Gorsuch was confirmed by the United States Senate in a 54–45 vote on April 7, 2017, with votes of 51 Republicans and 3 Democrats. Gorsuch was sworn in as an Associate Justice of the Supreme Court on April 10 by Kennedy.\n\nOn June 27, 2018, Justice Anthony Kennedy announced his retirement from the Supreme Court, effective July 31, giving Trump an opportunity to send a second Supreme Court nominee to the Senate for confirmation. Kavanaugh was officially nominated on July 9, selected from among a list of \"25 highly qualified potential nominees\" considered by the Trump Administration. Kavanaugh's nomination was officially sent to the Senate on July 10, 2018, and confirmation hearings began on September 4. The hearings took longer than initially expected over objections to the withholding of documents pertinent to Kavanaugh's time in the Bush administration as a lawyer, and due to the presence of protestors.\n\nOn September 16, 2018, Christine Blasey Ford alleged Kavanaugh sexually assaulted her in 1982, in what she described as an attempted rape. The accusation delayed the scheduled September 20 vote. After Ford's accusation, Kavanaugh indicated he would not withdraw. Ford's allegations were followed by an accusation of sexual assault by Yale classmate Deborah Ramirez, and a letter from Julie Swetnick accusing Kavanaugh of sexual misconduct in high school. Ford and Kavanaugh appeared before the Senate Judiciary Committee for a hearing on September 27, and were questioned by Arizona sex crimes prosecutor Rachel Mitchell and members of the Senate. The Judiciary Committee voted to approve Kavanaugh on September 28 after Jeff Flake, considered to be a swing vote, declared his intent to vote in favor of the nomination with the provision that there would be a new FBI investigation into the allegations by Ford. The investigation concluded on October 4. Two days later, Kavanaugh was confirmed by a 50–48 vote, and sworn in that same day.\n\nBelow is a list of individuals which President Trump has identified as his potential nominees for Supreme Court appointments. Most of them were revealed in two lists released by the Trump campaign in 2016. Others were added to a revised list released by the White House on November 17, 2017.\n\nFollowing the nomination of Amul Thapar to the Sixth Circuit, it was noted that Trump might try to season some of the candidates on his list with federal appellate court experience prior to potential nomination to the Supreme Court. Indeed, Trump later elevated a number of state court judges from his list to fill vacant positions on the federal Courts of Appeals: Joan Larsen (Sixth Circuit), David Stras (Eighth Circuit), Allison Eid (Tenth Circuit), Don Willett (Fifth Circuit), and Britt Grant (Eleventh Circuit). Conversely, two previous Trump appointees to the Courts of Appeals—Amy Coney Barrett (Seventh Circuit) and Kevin Newsom (Eleventh Circuit)—were later added to the list of potential Supreme Court candidates.\n\nDespite speculation that Trump might consider other candidates for a possible second Supreme Court nomination, he said in May 2017 that he would make his next appointment from the same list he used to choose Gorsuch (the combined 21 names given on either of the two lists he released during the campaign), describing the list as \"a big thing\" for him and his supporters. Trump added five further candidates to the list on November 17, 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5135539", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5135539", "title": "Edie Britt", "text": "Edie Britt\n\nEdie Williams (née Britt, previously McLain and Rothwell) is a fictional character created by television producer and screenwriter Marc Cherry for the ABC television series \"Desperate Housewives\". Nicollette Sheridan portrayed Edie from her debut in the pilot episode of the series until the character's death in the fifth season.\n\nWithin the series, Edie was one of several residents of the fictitious Wisteria Lane; she lived at 4362 Wisteria Lane in Fairview, Eagle State. Edie was a real estate agent. She was married three times; to Charles McLain (with whom she had a son, Travers), Umberto Rothwell, and Dave Williams. Throughout her time on the series, she also had numerous relationships with the ex-husbands or former lovers of other characters.\n\nEdie Britt was one of the series' most notable characters. Sheridan's portrayal of the character was widely acclaimed, leading Edie to be a fan favourite. In 2005, Sheridan was nominated for a Golden Globe Award for Best Supporting Actress.\n\nThe character Edie Britt was a series regular for the first 5 seasons, despite originally being conceived as a recurring character. Actress Nicollette Sheridan, who originally auditioned for Bree Van de Kamp, one of the series' more prominent roles, was cast in the role in February 2004. On August 11, Sheridan was announced to have joined the main cast for the series' first season, the thirteenth regular cast member to do so. Despite proving popular with fans and critics, Sheridan's role remained somewhat minimal in the series' first two seasons. Series creator Marc Cherry insisted that Edie served \"only as a spoiler to complicate the other women's lives.\" Although Sheridan thought of Edie as the fifth main housewife—in addition to Susan Mayer, Bree Van De Kamp, Lynette Scavo, and Gabrielle Solis—the opening credits only pictured the other four women. Additionally, Cherry shared that his goal was to have the central four women remain in the series.\n\nHowever, Marcia Cross' maternity leave caused Bree to be absent in several episodes of the third season. Edie's character was elevated in prominence, providing the fourth concurrent storyline for the episodes. During this time, the character's \"layers are peeled away and the character is developed on a deeper level than has been previously explored.\" Despite Cross' return, Edie maintained a more important role throughout seasons four and five until the character's death.\n\nIn February 2009, it was announced that Sheridan would be leaving the show following her character's death, which would involve a car accident and electrical wire. Cherry had confirmed the death of several fan favorites at the beginning of the series' fifth season in September 2008. Rumors of on-set problems with Sheridan and her squabbles with Cherry reportedly led to her departure. Sheridan commented that killing Edie \"was a risky decision that could have devastating ramifications,\" and admitted to feeling ignored by Cherry while on the series. Cherry alleges that the reason behind Edie's death was to cut costs from the series. The series reportedly saved an estimated $100,000 to $200,000 per episode without the cost of Sheridan's salary. In April 2010, Sheridan filed a lawsuit against Cherry, alleging wrongful dismissal and assault and battery, among five other counts. The following June, Sheridan filed an amended claim, clarifying that the alleged assault was a \"light tap,\" but reaffirmed her stance that her contract was wrongfully terminated.\n\nOn August 7, 2011, after the announcement that \"Desperate Housewives\" would be concluding at the end of its 8th season, Marc Cherry hinted that he may ask Nicollette Sheridan back for the series finale, \"to pay homage to everyone who has been on the show\", including Edie and without addressing Sheridan's lawsuit. However, while being interviewed on NBC's \"Today\" the following day, the actress firmly denied her comeback on Wisteria Lane, saying \"That's news to me. [...] I had an amazing time playing that character. I loved her dearly, but they killed her! She's dead.\"\n\nEdie led a troubled childhood, since her mother, Ilene Britt, was an alcoholic who served time in jail because of related shoplifting charges. A court, therefore appointed Edie a social worker by the name of Mrs. Muntz, who was sort of like a nanny for her. Mrs. Muntz was a very strict disciplinarian, and showed Edie no mercy. This made Edie actually happy to see her mother once she made parole. As a teenager, Edie would spent her time with the \"freaks\" hanging out by the loading docks, where she would smoke with them. \nEdie was introduced as a serial divorcée, with two marriages behind her at the beginning of the show. Martha Huber (Christine Estabrook) tells Susan that she will be babysitting Edie's son, although he does not appear until season 3. Edie and Susan Mayer are attracted to new neighbor Mike Delfino (James Denton), creating tension between them which culminates in Susan accidentally burning Edie's house down. Edie is upset when Martha is murdered, and proves to be the only Wisteria Lane resident who wants to give her a proper burial. Susan admits to Edie that she burned her house down and Edie uses Susan's guilt to join the housewives' poker group. Edie continues to hit on Mike but he's more interested in Susan. Edie is upset when Susan and Mike move in together. Edie tries to get the women to convince Susan that Mike is bad for her, but Susan is sure he's the one. Susan later finds out her ex-husband, Karl Mayer (Richard Burgi), cheated on her with Edie while they were married; using this knowledge, Edie and Karl start dating, increasing the tension between her and Susan.\n\nIn the show's second season, Edie starts dating Karl, Susan's ex-husband. Edie and Susan have many confrontations as Susan tries to deal with some minor jealousy issues. Edie later discovers a wedding ring in Karl's briefcase and suspects Karl plans to propose. The truth was, Karl married Susan so she would have health insurance as she needed an operation. Susan tells Karl that Edie thinks he's going to propose so he does. Susan's boyfriend, Ron, tells Edie about her and Karl's marriage and Edie is angry with them for lying to her. To punish Karl and Susan, Edie decides Karl will throw her a lavish wedding and Susan will be burdened with the arrangements. However, one morning, Edie wakes up to find Karl leaving permanently and also discovers that Karl slept with another woman while they were engaged and breaks the news to the other housewives. Edie is extremely upset and Susan, who feels guilty about unknowingly being the \"other woman\", tries to make her feel better. Edie begins bonding with Susan, making her feel even more guilty. Edie gets a confession letter from Susan and feels betrayed, retaliating by burning down Susan's house. After discovering Edie burned down her house, Susan tries to get a confession whilst wearing a wire, leading to a fight when Edie realizes. Trying to catch Susan, Edie is badly stung by yellowjackets. Susan feels guilty when Edie is hospitalized and tells her she won't give the confession to the police, sparing Edie prison. Edie refuses to accept Susan's pity and vows to get revenge.\n\nIn the show's third season, Edie declines Susan's attempts to rebuild a friendship. She is present when Mike wakes up from his coma and learns that he has retrograde amnesia and has forgotten the last two years. Edie's revenge on Susan is to take advantage of this. While \"helping\" Mike fill in the blanks, Edie makes him think that Susan never loved him and that they were miserable together. Edie admits that she’s always had a crush on him and how hurt she was that he ignored her. Susan comes by the hospital to give Mike flowers, but catches him having sex with Edie. Edie and Mike start a relationship but Edie ends it when Mike is arrested for the murder of Monique Pollier. Edie's nephew, Austin (Josh Henderson), moves in with her. He starts dating Susan's daughter, Julie Mayer. Susan disapproves but Edie claims she can't do anything about it because they are in love. Julie gets Edie to pose as her mother so she can get birth control pills. Edie and Susan later catch Austin having sex with Bree's daughter, Danielle Van de Kamp. He leaves Wisteria Lane when Danielle reveals she is pregnant with his child.\n\nEdie's son, Travers, is introduced for the first time, having been dropped off by his father for a month-long visit. Carlos Solis develops a father/son relationship with Travers as he is constantly called on to look after him. When Edie develops romantic feelings for Carlos, she uses his relationship with Travers to her advantage and tries to seduce him, but he tells her he's not interested in her that way. They eventually sleep together and later start dating. Carlos wants to keep the affair a secret, making Edie think he's still in love with Gabrielle. Edie tells the girls about her and Carlos at her Gabrielle's engagement party. Gabrielle is furious and demands Edie stop seeing Carlos, but Edie refuses. Gabrielle tries to get her friends to freeze out Edie, but Edie makes it difficult. Gabrielle eventually makes peace with the relationship...for now. Edie considers going for full custody of Travers to keep Carlos around, but Carlos convinces her not to. When Travers is collected by his father, Edie asks Carlos to move in with her. When he declines, Edie visits his landlady, Mrs. Simms, at her nursing home and tells her Carlos is an alcoholic, does drugs, and uses her home as a place to hook up with prostitutes. Mrs. Simms terminates the lease and Carlos is evicted. Edie offers Carlos a place to stay but he is suspicious that she was involved in his eviction. Carlos tells Edie he doesn't love her and she tells him she could be pregnant. After they find that she isn't, she suggests he stay with her and they try for a baby but continues taking the pill, because she doesn't want a baby until he starts to love her. While looking for money in Edie's purse to pay the paper boy, Carlos discovers the pills. At Gaby's wedding, Carlos confronts Edie. She tries to apologize but is unsuccessful. At the closing scene of the season, Edie is shown with a sealed letter to her \"beloved\" Carlos, and hangs herself with a scarf.\n\nIn the first episode of season 4, it transpires that Edie's suicide attempt was merely a bid for Carlos' attention. Carlos feels responsible and agrees to resume their relationship, leading Edie to discover his secret offshore bank account containing $10 million. She uses this knowledge to blackmail him, asking him to marry her, unaware that Carlos is having an affair with Gabrielle. Edie goes on to announce their engagement party, but discovers Carlos' betrayal when she, Carlos, and Gabrielle's new husband, Victor Lang (John Slattery), all suffer from crabs. Edie hires someone to spy on Carlos and gets pictures of him and Gabrielle kissing before telling the IRS about his offshore account. She discovers that Carlos has emptied and closed his offshore account so she turns the pictures over to Victor, knowing he will get revenge. Edie, still feeling vindictive, tells the police that Gaby may be responsible for Victor's disappearance. A tornado is about to hit Wisteria Lane and Carlos and Edie plan to disappear. Gabrielle is given a folder, giving her access to Carlos' offshore bank account. Edie and Gabrielle fight over it but lose the papers in the tornado. They are forced to take shelter together in Edie's crawl space and are able to put aside their differences for a while. Carlos is blinded in the tornado.\n\nEdie finds out Carlos gave her real jewellery when they were together and gets back at him by staying with him. Edie learns that Carlos' blindness is permanent, when she thought it was only temporary. Later Edie tells Gabrielle that the way she is treating Carlos is sick and that there are other women out there who would treat Carlos better. When Bree and Orson Hodge (Kyle MacLachlan) are having troubles, Edie lets Orson stay with her. Edie later shares a brief drunken kiss with Orson which is seen by Bree, who is looking for Toby the cat. Bree confronts Edie about the kiss. When Edie says it meant nothing, Bree slaps her and a full-scale war erupts between them. Bree sabotages Edie's business by hounding off potential house buyers. Edie visits Orson, who is now living at a hotel, to complain about Bree. When she enters the room, she discovers a piece of paper revealing that Bree's baby is really Austin and Danielle's. Edie threatens to tell everyone about it unless Bree does exactly what she wants. Bree tells her friends about her faked pregnancy and about Edie's threats. The housewives confront Edie, and tell her that from now on they won't be friends with her anymore and will ignore her whenever she talks to them. Afterward, Edie calls Travers, and tells him she's going to be spending a lot more time with him from now on.\n\nWhile off the lane, Edie starts visiting Orson while he is in prison for the hit and run of her ex-boyfriend Mike Delfino. After Bree hears that Edie has been visiting her husband, Bree goes to Edie's new house to confront her. Edie then shames Bree into being a better person. Bree doesn't tell anyone about this until she, Susan, Lynette, Gabrielle and Karen McCluskey go to bring Travers Edie's ashes. This makes Bree the only housewife to see Edie until she returns five years later.\n\nDuring the five-year jump, Edie begins dating motivational speaker, Dave Williams. Edie proposes and they elope right away. Dave gets Edie into moving back to Wisteria Lane, though oblivious to her, he has his own agenda.\n\nThe fifth season is set five years on from the fourth-season finale. Edie returns to Wisteria Lane, five years later, a new and transformed woman. When the housewives notice the change in Edie, they resume their friendship with her. Dave is persistent in convincing Edie to get along better with her neighbors. He kidnaps Karen McCluskey's cat after she is rude to Edie, only returning him when Karen apologizes. When Karen attempts to investigate Dave's background, Edie realizes she knows very little about his past. Dave's doctor arrives in Fairview and confronts Dave at the White Horse Club, but Dave strangles him and sets fire to the building. Dave only married Edie to have an excuse to move to Wisteria Lane and get revenge on Mike, who, as it turns out, had been involved in a car accident that killed Dave's wife and daughter. Edie starts to notice something is off about Dave and is irritated that he doesn't show interest in her. One night she wakes up and sees Dave talking to himself. Edie wants to know why he's acting so strangely and Dave tells her he used to be married before he met Edie and that his wife died. Edie is furious he never told her about this before and throws him out of the house. When Edie is locked in a basement with Susan, they have a heart to heart chat and Susan tells Edie not to treat men like tissue and to believe in happily ever afters. After they are freed Edie goes to Dave and tells him to move back in. When Dave tells Edie that Eli Scruggs, the neighborhood handy man, has died, she recalls the time that when she was having marital problems with her ex-husband, Umberto. In a flashback, while feeling insecure about her appearance after Umberto turns out to be gay, Eli reassures Edie and makes her feel better and ends up having sex with her.\n\nWhile at a liquor store, Edie observes an encounter between Dave and Father Drance. Suspicious about her husband's motives, she does a research on his past after Father Drance calls her Mrs. Dash. Determined to know more about her husband's past, Edie goes to the local newspaper for information on Dave's family, only to learn that Dave had both a wife and daughter who were killed in a car crash. Later, when she asks Dave how he feels about children, he tells her that his \"friend\" had a daughter he loved who died in the crash and lives his life wondering what she would've looked like and how old she would've been; he also tells her that he would never have a child as it wouldn't be worth it. Edie is still determined to know a lot more about Dave's past. Upon receiving a news article on the fateful car accident and finally learning the truth about her husband's intentions, she confronts Dave when he returns home from his camping trip. As she attempts to call Mike to warn him, she is almost strangled to death by Dave. Tearful and disorientated, Edie manages to run away and drives down the lane. She almost hits Orson as he stumbles onto the road; swerving to miss him, she hits an electric post instead. Dazed and unaware that the power line had snapped and there was water underneath the car, Edie steps out. She receives an electric shock, falls to the ground and dies a few minutes later.\n\nThe housewives pay a visit to her son, Travers, to announce her death and to give him her ashes. On the journey up each of the housewives and Karen McCluskey share memories of Edie. In one flashback, Susan and Edie did get along in the beginning, until Susan finds out Edie is having sex with her neighbor's husband. In another flashback, Edie takes Lynette out to help her acquire the courage to beat cancer. In another flashback, Edie tells Bree that she has been visiting Orson because Bree can't bring herself to enter the visiting room at all since he went to jail. In another flashback, Edie reveals to Gabrielle that she always knew she wouldn't live a long life, and she should live it up while she still can. However, although Edie was right, Gabrielle convinced her that in 50 years time they would still go out and still be the hottest ladies on the lane. And in a final flashback, Edie visits Karen McCluskey and it is the anniversary of her son's death. Edie explains that she gave her son to her ex because she wanted him to have a good life and she knew that she would have made a bad mother. Karen says she hopes she isn't making a mistake, and Edie replies \"Me too\". Once they arrive, however, Travers tells them that they were her closest friends and that they should spread the ashes wherever they see fit. Ultimately, her ashes are spread around Wisteria Lane. Edie was at peace about her death and had no regrets because she lived her life to the fullest and to her it was \"a one of a kind life.\"\n\nEdie appears briefly in \"Everybody Says Don't\" as a hallucination of Dave's, revealing his thoughts. Edie says that his plans to kill M.J. on the fishing trip, pretending it was an \"accident\" is a boring plan, and that he might as well kill M.J right then and there. She says that Susan would suffer more if she knew why M.J. died. She then says in a mocking tone that everyone would finally know what he's been going through.\n"}
{"id": "21023981", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21023981", "title": "Edward H. Davis", "text": "Edward H. Davis\n\nEdward Harvey Davis (1862-1951) was a field collector for the Museum of the American Indian in New York City who acquired many Indian artifacts from various tribes in San Diego county and northwestern Mexico (including the Seris) for that museum (now part of the Smithsonian).\n\nBorn to Lewis S. Davis and Christine Smith Davis on 18 June 1862 in New York, Davis grew up in Brooklyn and attended the Brooklyn Art Guild, developing skills in drawing and drafting. He worked for a time in New York in the accounting office of his family's shipping firm, Jonas Smith & Company.\n\nIn 1885, ill with Bright’s disease, Davis followed his older brother Henry to San Diego, where the elder Davis had established an office of the family shipping firm and expanded into lumber and mining interests. The younger Davis found work as a surveyor and a draftsman, drawing maps and house plans. In 1887, he helped draw plans for the Hotel del Coronado. \n\nIn 1885, he married Anna Marion (Anna May) Wells in New York and returned with her to San Diego.\n\nIn 1887, a real estate deal in downtown San Diego provided Davis the funds to purchase 320 acres in Mesa Grande, approximately 60 miles northeast of San Diego, where he developed the land into a working cattle ranch and fruit farm. In 1915, he built a summer resort on the property, the Powam Lodge, designed by noted architect Emmor Brook Weaver. Davis and his family operated the lodge until 1930, when it was destroyed in a fire.\n\nAn interest in Indian culture led Davis to collect Indian artifacts, trading with various tribes in the neighborhood. Concerned with the loss of traditional Indian way of life, Davis acquired extensive artifacts to preserve and document Indian culture.\n\nIn 1916, George Gustav Heye, founder of the Museum of the American Indian, hired Davis as a field collector of Indian ethnological specimens. Davis collected for the Heye Foundation from 1917 to 1930, focusing on artifacts of the Indian tribes of San Diego County/Southern California, Arizona, New Mexico, and northwestern Mexico, including the Paipai, Kiliwa, Cora, Huichol, Opata, Mayo, Seri, Apache, Cocopa, Tohono O’odham, Papago, Maricopa, Mojave, Hualapai, Yaqui, and Yuma Indians.\n\nIn addition to collecting, Davis photographed Indian communities, documenting their daily and ceremonial activities and publishing his experiences in both popular magazines and scholarly journals.\n\nDavis died on 22 February 1951 at the age of 89.\n\nThe National Museum of the American Indian houses a large number of objects Davis collected during his years in the Southwest. The San Diego History Center (SDHC) houses the Edward H. Davis Collection of Indian Photographs and Drawings (5000 images, most dating from 1903 to 1947);. Additionally, the SDHC Archives holds Davis's 62 notebooks and pages of field notes. The bulk of his papers are housed at Cornell University Library (Edward H. Davis Papers, 1910-1944, Collection no. 9166).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "52315784", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52315784", "title": "Ferenc Snétberger", "text": "Ferenc Snétberger\n\nFerenc Snétberger (born 6 February 1957 in Salgótarján, Hungary) is a Hungarian jazz guitarist.\n\nSnétberger was born into a Romani family. At the age of thirteen, he attended music school and studied classical guitar. From 1977 to 1981 he studied at Bela Bartók Jazz Conservatory in Budapest.\n\nIn 1987, he formed the Stendahl Trio with László Dés and Kornél Horváth, and in 2005 a trio with Arild Andersen and Italian drummer Paolo Vinaccia. He appeared in Joyosa-Kvartetten with German trumpeter Markus Stockhausen, Norwegian bassist Arild Andersen, and Swiss drummer Samuel Rohrer. He has also worked with Joey Baron, Charlie Byrd, Herb Ellis, Richard Bona, Bobby McFerrin, David Friedman, Michel Godard, Anders Jormin, Didier Lockwood, James Moody, and Ernie Wilkins.\n\nSnétberger is a composer, and has composed film music and \"For My People\" for guitar and orchestra.\n\nOn the German Holocaust Remembrance Day, 27 January 2011 concluded Snétberger celebration in plenary by the German Bundestag, with a Sinto when Zoni Weisz first held eulogy.\n\nIn 2002, Snétberger became honorary citizen of his native town Salgótarjá. Two years later he received the Hungarian Order of Merit. In 2005 he was in Budapest as Franz Liszt award was handed out, and in 2014 he was awarded the Kossuth Prize. His son, Toni Snétberger, is an actor.\n\nHe founded the Snétberger Music Talent Center, an international music school for disadvantaged children and young people, mainly minority of Sinti and Romani origin. The school opened in 2011.\n\nAs leader\n\nAs sideman\n\n"}
{"id": "4390279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4390279", "title": "Geert Hoste", "text": "Geert Hoste\n\nGeert Joël Joseph Hoste (born 1 July 1960) is a Flemish cabaret performer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50204559", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50204559", "title": "Gilbert Rwabigwi", "text": "Gilbert Rwabigwi\n\nGilbert Rwabigwi (born 6 January 1990) is a Rwandan social entrepreneur and blogger, who is passionate about literacy, education and social media. He is the founder of Youth Literacy Organisation (YouLI), a non-profit NGO whose mission is to advance literacy and learning in Rwanda, especially among youth between the ages of 15 and 30. Rwabigwi is also a founding partner in Ejo Group, a social enterprise that specialises in social media and digital content marketing.\n\nRwabigwi is a regular writer and editor at the Kigalian, an online magazine that publishes articles about trends on social media, technology, arts and culture, photography, and commentaries about Rwanda. He is also among top Rwandan influencers on Twitter and speaks at several events on issues about education, literacy, social media and culture. Since 2016, Rwabigwi is a judge in Miss Rwanda.\n\nGilbert was born in Kigali. His father, Fulgence Bukaka, and mother, Alphonsine Mukahigiro, were killed during the Rwandan Genocide in 1994.\n\nRwabigwi was raised in Kigali, with his brothers and sisters; went to Camp Kigali Primary School and Ecole Primaire l'Horizon for his primary education. He went to Groupe Scolaire Officiel de Butare (GSOB), then Groupe Scolaire Kigombe (GSK) for his secondary education. Gilbert studied at the School of Journalism and Communication, National University of Rwanda (NUR).\n\nHe holds a self-proclaimed PhD in autodidacticism and is one of the most respected advocates for writing in Rwanda. He is the author of \"Yesterday, Today and Tomorrow: A Collection of Poems on Genocide\", first published in 2008. In 2011, he was featured on the top of a list of top 10 most important Rwandan artists to know.\n"}
{"id": "41489202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41489202", "title": "Gina Wilson", "text": "Gina Wilson\n\nGina Wilson is an intersex human rights activist, born in Victoria, Australia in 1952. She was the founding president of Intersex Human Rights Australia (formerly known as OII Australia).\n\nGina Wilson founded Intersex Human Rights Australia in 2009 and remained as president of the organisation until stepping down on 1 September 2013. She was succeeded by Morgan Carpenter and has since returned as Vice-President. She has also been a member of the board of the National LGBTI Health Alliance a board associate of the AIDS Council of New South Wales, and Lidcombe, New South Wales branch president of the Australian Labor Party.\n\nIn her work at Intersex Human Rights Australia, Gina Wilson played an important role in improving access to healthcare, inclusion of intersex people in anti-discrimination legislation, and in aged care.\n\nWilson has played a leading role in moves to protect people on the basis of \"intersex status\" in anti-discrimination law, appearing before a Senate inquiry. Interviewed by the Sydney Morning Herald, Wilson spoke about how initial proposals for intersex inclusion in federal legislation were inappropriate as they classed intersex as a gender identity.\n\nA Senate of Australia inquiry into anti-discriminination legislation supported the approach of the organisation and \"intersex status\" was added to the \"Sex Discrimination Amendment (Sexual Orientation, Gender Identity and Intersex Status) Act 2013\", which passed into law on 1 August 2013.\n\nWilson has called for \"normalising\" surgeries on intersex infants to end, saying that such interventions should only take place when a child is able to provide informed consent. In comments on Intersex Awareness Day 2012, Wilson said, \"At a fundamental level homophobic bigotry, intolerance and ancient superstitions underpin contemporary mistreatment of intersex people. Intersex people are subjected to forced gendering and surgical alterations to our bodies to \"disappear\" our differences in a society that regards difference in sex anatomy as deeply suspicious.\"\n\nInterviewed by Andrew Bock in The Age, Wilson expressed concern about the use of prenatal screening to terminate intersex foetuses.\n\nWilson played a role in efforts to improve access to Medicare services in 2013. The organisation has also called for the removal of intersex people from definitions of gender identity disorder in the American Psychiatric Association's diagnostic manual, saying \"The assumption is that the birth assignment must be right. The doctor is never at fault, it's the poor intersex person who is wrong, who then gets carted off to a psychiatrist to try and 'fix' us.\" \n\nWhile welcoming federal guidelines on recognition of gender, Wilson has expressed concern about misrepresentation of intersex issues by some trans groups including the instrumentalisation of intersex in moves to create a third gender category, warning of \"far-reaching unintended consequences\".\n\nSelected published work includes:\n\n\nGina Wilson was a finalist for the Australian Human Rights Commission Community Individual Award, 2013. The Commission describes the award as one of \"the two most vigourously contested categories for the 2013 Australian Human Rights Awards\" commenting that her \"intersex advocacy work has been ground-breaking, helping to achieve authentic and appropriate inclusion in anti-discrimination legislation.\" Wilson was also nominated for a Community Hero \"Honour Award\" in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "2172854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2172854", "title": "Haji-Mirza Hassan Roshdieh", "text": "Haji-Mirza Hassan Roshdieh\n\nHaji Mirza Hassan Tabrizi (میرزا حسن تبریزی; July 4, 1851, Tabriz – December 12, 1944, Qom), famously known as Hassan Roshdieh (حسن رشدیه), was an Iranian cleric, teacher, politician, and journalist. He introduced some modern teaching methods in Iran, especially in teaching the alphabet. These are still used to some degree in Iran's primary schools.\n\nHassan Roshdieh was an ethnic Iranian Azerbaijani and began studying as a Twelver Shi'a cleric there, Roshdieh abandoned his plans of going to Najaf to study in religious schools after reading an article about the hardships of education in the Persian language from the newspaper \"Akhtar\". He left for Beirut in 1880 and studied for two years in its \"Daar ul-Mu'allimeen\" (teacher school), and then continued with visiting Istanbul and Egypt. In 1883, he left for Yerevan and founded the first modern school for Muslims there. In his new method of teaching, Roshdieh used the concept of sounds instead of alphabetic letters to teach the Persian and Azeri languages, which use the Arabic script. During his four years of managing his school in Yerevan, Roshdieh wrote \"Vatan Dili\" (\"The Language of the Homeland\") in Azerbaijani, which was taught in several schools of the Caucasus as a primer until the October Revolution.\n\nIt was during his stay in Yerevan that Roshdieh met Nasser-al-Din Shah, who took him to Nakhichevan. Roshdieh later return to his birthplace in Tabriz, where he established the first primary schools in Iran in 1886 or 1887. While Ahmad Kasravi has claimed in his book that the primary school were established with the help of Ali Khan Amin od-Dowle, the then Premier of Iran, this cannot be confirmed by the records of Fakhreddin Roshdieh, Mirza Hassan's son.\n\nThe schools were highly rejected by the more conservative Tabrizis, specially clerics, alleging that Roshdieh is trying to make the students quit Islam, mentioning the school ring and its similarity to church bells. This resulted in mobs destroying some of his schools (which resulted in a few students being killed or injured), unsuccessful assassination attempts using guns, and later a \"fatwa\" against the modern schools, which finally resulted in him fleeing Tabriz.\n\nIn Tehran, and during the reign of Mozzafar-al-Din Shah and the prime ministership of Amin od-Dowle, Roshdieh started the \"Roshdieh School\" with the help of the government. He was a member of the political \"Ma'āref Association\" and active for the fight for freedoms and constitution during the Iranian Constitutional Revolution, leading to him being exiled or fleeing Iran a few times.\n\nAfter a final return to Iran, Roshdieh established a new school and a magazine in 1904, both called \"Maktab\". He finally quit his political and educational activities in 1927 and moved to Qom, where he died in 1944 and is buried.\n\nRoshdieh is claimed to be the first Azerbaijani to write poems for children. He also had plans for education of the blind people and had helped establishing girl schools in Iran. He has several books and articles in Persian and Azerbaijani. He was called Roshdieh after the name of primary schools in the then Ottoman empire, \"roshdiyye\", because he had established the first such schools in Iran.\n\nRoshdieh is mentioned in a famous poem of Nima Youshij, \"yād-e ba’zi nafarāt\" (\"The Memory of Some People\").\n\n"}
{"id": "414445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=414445", "title": "Harry Barnes (Labour politician)", "text": "Harry Barnes (Labour politician)\n\nHarold Barnes (born 22 July 1936) is an English politician who was the Labour Party Member of Parliament for North East Derbyshire from 1987 to 2005.\n\nBorn in Easington, County Durham, elected to Parliament in the 1987 election, Barnes was a left-winger, a member of the Socialist Campaign Group who voted against Tony Blair's leadership on a number of issues. Unlike other members of the SCG he was not an advocate of the Troops out movement (from Northern Ireland). In the SCG split over the NATO intervention in Kosovo in 1999, he supported intervention.\n\nBefore entering parliament, Barnes was a member of the Independent Labour Party's successor organisation, Independent Labour Publications. As an MP, he joined a supporters group entitled 'Friends of the ILP'.\n\nHarry Barnes stepped down at the May 2005 general election.\n\n"}
{"id": "57550623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57550623", "title": "Illar Hallaste", "text": "Illar Hallaste\n\nIllar Hallaste (6 May 1959, Kohtla-Järve – 27 October 2012, Tallinn) was an Estonian cleric, politician, lawyer, and businessman, most notable for being a voter for the Estonian restoration of Independence.\n\nHallaste studied in Kohtla-Järve, and from the 7th grade in the Otepää branch of the Tallinn Sports Secondary School. In 1977, he graduated from Kohtla-Järve Secondary High School. After graduating from high school, Hallaste began studying at the Faculty of Law of the University of Tartu, where he was thrown out for being religious, which was discouraged by the Soviet government at the time. He eventually graduated in 1995.\n\nAfter graduating from the University of Tartu, Hallaste began studying at the Institute of Theology of the Estonian Evangelical Lutheran Church. In 1982, he was ordained a teacher at St Mary's Cathedral, Tallinn.\n\nHallaste served a number of parish throughout the late 20th century, including in Laiuse and Palamuse parishes from 1982 to 1983, Torma and Kodavere parishes from 1983 to 1988, and Kadrina and Ilumäe parishes from 1988 to 1993. From 2005 to his death in 2012, he was a vicar teacher in Ida-Harju. He has also served as deputy head of the Järva provost and eastern Harju Assistance Front.\n\nAfter leaving politics, Hallaste established the law office of the same name and offered legal services. Lastly, he headed the company Viimars OÜ. In addition, he organized the Season Travel travel agency and was a member of the Board of the Kirik Varahaldus OÜ, the company managing the real estate of EELK.\n\nHallaste became a part of politics through the heritage protection movement. In October 1988, he attempted to stand in the Rakvere District against the \"official\" candidate nominated by the Communist Party, Vaino Väljas, in the replacement of the Supreme Soviet of the Estonian SSR, and created a precedent in post-war Estonia. However, bringing the formal reasons to excuse (a meeting of the group setting up the working group was convened as a trade union group, not as a trade union committee), he was denied the candidacy. In March 1989, Hallaste applied for election to the Congress of People's Deputies of the Soviet Union in the same constituency, but remained under Siim Kallas in 1989. In 1989, he was one of the founders of the Estonian Christian Union (later the Estonian Christian-Democratic Union) and was it's chairman until 1992. EKDL considered itself the successor to the Christian People's Party founded in 1919. Between 1990 and 1992, he was a member of the Estonian Supreme Soviet and the Congress of Estonia, the 1990 Estonian Committee and the 1991-1992 Constituent Assembly. He was among the 69 members of the Supreme Council of the Republic of Estonia who on 20 August 1991 voted for the Estonian restoration of Independence.\n\nIn the Riigikogu elections in 1992, the EKDL participated in the election campaign of \"Isamaa\" with the Conservative People's Party of Estonia, the Estonian Christian Democratic Party, the Republican Conservatives, and the Estonian Liberal Democratic Party (ELDP). The election coalition was the winner, receiving 22.00% of the votes and 29 seats in the Riigikogu. After the election, in the same year, the EKDL joined all but the ELDP, forming a new party: the Pro Patria National Coalition Party. Hallaste lost his position as party leader (Mart Laar later became the leader of the new party), but Hallaste was a member of the Riigikogu from 1992 to 1995. Hallaste led the Pro Patria National Coalition Party until 27 October 1993. On 30 June 1994, he left the faction and joined the Right-wing faction, whose members were members of the People's Party of Republicans and Conservatives on 9 October 1994, as the founders of the newly formed Party of the Republicans from the Republican and Conservative People's Party (VKRE). On April 5, 1998, the VKRE joined the Estonian Peasantry Party, forming the Estonian People's Party, but was compulsorily terminated on 14 December 1999 because it failed to comply with the 1000-member requirement of the new Political Parties Act.\n\nIn 1998, Hallaste and businesswoman Toivo Ninnas were caught in a sex scandal involving inviting ten female guests to the Viking hotel in Pärnu. Ninna and Hallaste denied the allegations, but the People's Party forced out Hallaste. As a result of the scandal, former president Arnold Rüütel did not award him the same award given to all members of the Supreme Council who voted on 20 August 1991 to restore Estonia's independence. \"I have not seen this list,\" Hallaste said of the President's decision. \"Everyone who voted [for independence] got the award except for me. Why can't I? Is morale a thing? For me, this is completely incomprehensible...\".\n\nIn 2000, police in Tallinn fined Hallaste for going 107 km/h on the freeway while driving under the influence, despite being part of the leadership of the Alcohol Policy Council.\n\nFrom 2001 to his death, Hallaste was a part of the Estonian Reform Party.\n\nIn 1978, Hallaste married Hilja Seppenen. They had eight children (three sons and five daughters).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36640254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36640254", "title": "Joseph J. Katz", "text": "Joseph J. Katz\n\nJoseph J. Katz (April 19, 1912, Detroit – January 28, 2008, Chicago) was a chemist at Argonne National Laboratory whose fundamental research on the chemistry of photosynthesis led to his election to the US National Academy of Science. His parents were Jewish immigrants from Czarist Russia. Neither parent had any formal education.\n\nHis college education was in chemistry at the College of the City of Detroit (now Wayne State University). He worked for the next seven years at small companies in Detroit, developing adhesives, metal polishing compounds, lubricants and other specialty chemical formulations used in the automobile industry. While working in Detroit after receiving his bachelor's degree, Katz and several colleagues rented a room in a Detroit office building and used it as a laboratory. They carried out independent research from 1932 through 1939, trying to cure tuberculosis by finding a substance that could dissolve the fatty outer coating of the TB bacillus so that it would be vulnerable to being destroyed by a drug. He and a Detroit colleague published two papers on studies with the bacterium Mycobacterium smegmatis, a fast-growing and non-pathogenic bacillus with similar physical properties to the tuberculosis bacillus.\n\nUnemployed in summer 1939, he followed a suggestion from a former teacher and applied to graduate school in chemistry at the University of Chicago. His thesis research in physical organic chemistry under the supervision of Frank R. Mayo was a study of the mechanism of addition of hydrogen chloride to isobutene in a solvent of low dielectric constant. He received the PhD degree in March 1942.\n\n"}
{"id": "58516836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58516836", "title": "Juan Miguel Betancourt", "text": "Juan Miguel Betancourt\n\nJuan Miguel Betancourt, S.E.M.V., STL, (born June 1, 1970 in Ponce, Puerto Rico) is a Puerto Rican religious and Roman Catholic auxiliary bishop for the Roman Catholic Archdiocese of Hartford. He speaks English, Spanish, and Italian.\n\nJuan Miguel Betancourt was born in Ponce, Puerto Rico on June 1, 1970 to Miguel and Gloria Betancourt. He is the oldest of three children. He joined the Servants of the Eucharist and of the Blessed Virgin Mary on January 1, 1992, and took perpetual vows on August 6, 2000. On April 21, 2001, he was ordained a priest.\n\nHe received a licentiate in sacred scripture from the Pontifical Biblical Institute in Rome in 2005. From 2005 to 2006, he taught at the Pontifical Catholic University of Puerto Rico and Regina Cleri Major Seminary.\n\nIn 2006, Fr. Betancourt was assigned by his order to be the pastor of St. Francis de Sales parish in the Archdiocese of Saint Paul and Minneapolis. Starting in 2006, he also taught scripture at the Saint Paul Seminary School of Divinity in St. Paul, MN and also served as a formation director, vice-rector, and assistant academic dean. He taught undergraduate theology at the University of St. Thomas from 2006 through 2009.\n\nOn September 18, 2018, Pope Francis appointed him titular bishop of Curzola and auxiliary bishop of Hartford. He was consecrated as bishop on October 18, 2018 by Archbishop Leonard Paul Blair of Hartford, Archbishop Timothy Broglio of the Archdiocese of Military Services, and Bishop Andrew H. Cozzens, Auxiliary Bishop of Saint Paul and Minneapolis.\n\n"}
{"id": "4964302", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4964302", "title": "Krasue", "text": "Krasue\n\nThe Krasue (, ), known as \"Ahp\" () in Cambodia and as \"Kasu\" (, ) in Laos, is a nocturnal female spirit of Southeast Asian folklore. It manifests itself as a woman, usually young and beautiful, with her internal organs hanging down from the neck, trailing below the head.\n\nAccording to Thai ethnographer Phraya Anuman Rajadhon, the Krasue consists of a floating head accompanied by a will-o'-the-wisp kind of luminescent glow. The explanations attempted about the origin of the glow include the presence of methane in marshy areas. The Krasue is often said to live in the same areas as Krahang, a male spirit of the Thai folklore.\n\nThis spirit moves about by hovering in the air above the ground, for it has no lower body. The throat may be represented in different ways, either as only the trachea or with the whole neck. The organs below the head usually include the heart and the stomach with a length of intestine, the intestinal tract emphasizing the ghost's voracious nature. In recent movie Krasue Valentine, this ghost is represented with more internal organs, such as lungs and liver, but much reduced in size and anatomically out of proportion with the head. The viscera are sometimes represented freshly daubed with blood, as well as glowing. In contemporary representations her teeth often include pointed fangs in yakkha () or vampire fashion. In the movie \"Ghosts of Guts Eater\" she has a halo around her head.\n\n\"Krasue\" has been the subject of a number of movies in the region, including \"My Mother is Arb\" (). Also known as \"Krasue Mom\", this Cambodian horror film has the distinction of being the first movie made in the People's Republic of Kampuchea after the absence of locally-made movies and the repression of local folklore in Cambodia during the Khmer Rouge era.\n\nThe Krasue is also found in the popular mythology of Malaysia, where it is called the \"penanggalan or\" \"hantu penanggal\", and also in Indonesia where it has many names such as Leyak, Palasik, Selaq Metem, Kuyang, Poppo, and Parakang. This spirit is also part of Vietnamese folklore as \"ma lai\" via the minority ethnic groups of Vietnam's Central Highlands. In the Philippines there is a similar ghost, manananggal, a local spirit that haunts pregnant women.\n\nKrasue is a belief shared across southeast asia, as such its origin is difficult to verify. However, the inception of this demon is likely to be based on a folk lore. In Thailand, Krasue is believed to be a cursed individual (usually a female) who engaged in various sins and fraudulent conducts during her previous life. After she dies, her sins causes her to be reborn as a \"phuti\" () that has to live off wasted, uncooked or rotten food. In recent time, the Thai entertainment industry has fictionalized the origin of Krasue as a cursed ancient Khmer princess, as in Demonic Beauty\" (2002). \"This depiction is, however, merely an attempt to put a royal touch or to reinvent a mythical beginning to a well-known story of an essentially folk origin, for strictly entertainment and commercial purpose. One critic notes that the director of \"Demonic Beauty\" probably just wanted to depict \"Krasue\" as an evil and an alien demon, originating from the witchcraft and black magic of a foreign (i.e. Cambodian's) pagan culture, which is ultimately subdued and defeated by the more-enlightened buddhist culture of Thailand.\" \n\nThere are other oral traditions that say that this spirit was formerly a rich lady that had a length of black gauze or ribbon tied around the head and neck as protection from the sunshine. This woman was then possessed by an evil spirit and was cursed to become a Krasue. Other popular legends claim that origin of the spirit may have been a woman trying to learn black magic that made a mistake or used the wrong spell so that her head and body became separated. Past sins are also related to the transmission of the Krasue curse; women who aborted or killed someone in a previous life will become a Krasue as punishment. Other folk stories talk about a person being cursed to become a Krasue after having consumed food and drink contaminated with a krasue's saliva or flesh. Popular imagination also claims that the transformation into a Krasue is largely restricted to the relatives of women practicing witchcraft \"Mae Mot\" (แม่มด) or \"Yai Mot\" (ยายมด), especially their daughters or granddaughters. Often women acting strange in a community are suspected of becoming nightly a Krasue by other members of the village.\n\nThe Krasue is under a curse that makes it ever hungry and always active in the night when it goes out hunting to satisfy its gluttony, seeking blood to drink or raw flesh to devour. It may attack cattle or chicken in the darkness, drinking their blood and eating their internal organs. It may also prey on pieces of cattle, such as water buffalo that have died of other causes during the night. If blood is not available the Krasue may eat feces or carrion. Clothes left outside would be found soiled with blood and excrement in the morning, allegedly after she had wiped her mouth. Therefore, villagers would not leave clothes hanging to dry outside during the night hours.\n\nThe Krasue also preys on pregnant women in their homes just before or after the childbirth. It hovers around the house of the pregnant woman uttering sharp cries to instil fear. It uses an elongated proboscis-like tongue to reach the fetus or its placenta within the womb. This habit, among other unmentionable things that this spirit does, is believed to be the cause of many diseases affecting women mainly in rural areas during their pregnancy. In some cases it may catch the unborn child and use its sharp teeth to devour it.\nIn order to protect pregnant women from becoming victims before delivery, their relatives place thorny branches around the house. This improvised thorny fence discourages the \"Krasue\" from coming to suck the blood and causing other suffering to the pregnant lady within the house.\nAfter delivery, the woman's relatives must take the cut placenta far away for burial to hide it from the Krasue. There is the belief that if the placenta is buried deep enough the spirit can not find it.\nThe Krasue hides the headless body from which it originates in a quiet place because it needs to join it before daybreak, living like a normal person during the day, although having a sleepy look. To crush the still headless body of the krasue is fatal to the spirit. The flying head will return after hunting but rejoin with the wrong body which will lead it to suffer torment until death. If the top part of the body fails to find the lower half before daybreak it will die in terrible pain. The Krasue will also die if its intestines get cut off or if its body disappears or gets hidden by someone. Some folk beliefs hold that the creature can be destroyed by burning it. The main foes of the Krasue are mobs of angry villagers carrying torches and machetes. They may catch the Krasue and kill it or watch where she goes before dawn and destroy her body.\n\nThere is a legend said that the people who are wounded should be aware of the Krasue because it can smell the blood and will come to eat the blood at night when people fall asleep. However, there are ways to prevent the Krasue from coming inside the house. House-owners usually build spiky fences or grow spiky bamboo to protect themselves from the Krasue. Krasue is scared of spiky things because its intestine might get stuck and it could not escape.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThere is information from The Royal Academy which provides examples of how belief in the Krasue has been reflected in Thai culture for centuries, for example:\n\nA possible scientific explanation is that Krasue sightings are caused by blazing flames from methane gas particles emitted from rotten organic matters such as found in farms and fields, where Krasue sightings are commonly reported. However, according to Associate Professor Dr. Sirintornthep Towprayoon, an energy researcher from King Mongkut's University of Technology Thonburi, the hypothesis that the Krasue is actually burning methane gas particles is impossible because not enough methane is emitted from rotten organic matter to be able to cause an ignition and that even if the methane gas particles did ignited, the burning would be confined to the surface of the organic, flammable matter and will not lead to floating flames that allegedly give the illusion of the Krasue.\nAn anatomical interpretation is that when the head is pulled off from the human body, other organs such as the intestines, heart, and lungs will not come together with the head.\n\nCountries where the Krasue tale is popular have adapted it to film. Several Thai films depict this spirit, including 1973 movie \"Krasue Sao\" (Ghosts of Guts Eater), with Sombat Metanee, which features a fight between two Krasues, \"Itthirit Nam Man Phrai\" made in 1984, with Tanid Pongmanoon and Praew Mardmarud, \"Krasue Kat Pop\" (1990) with Bin Bunluerit and Trirak Rakkarndee, \"Krasue Krahailueat\" (Bloodthirsty Krasue), , made in 1995 with Thida Teerarat, \"Tamnan Krasue\" (Demonic Beauty) released in 2002, \"Krasue Valentine\" (2006) by Yuthlert Sippapak, \"Krasue\" (The Gluttonous Fear) made in 2007, with Jedsada Roongsakorn and Sirintorn Parnsamutr, \"Krasue Fat Pop\" (2009) with Chutima Naiyana, in which Krasue fights against Phi Pop, and \"Fullmoon Devil\" (2011) by Komson Thripong. Krasue also appears in erotic movies such as \"Krasue Rak Krasue Sawat\" (2014) and \"Wan Krasue Sao\" (2013) In all these movies Krasue plays a central role, but she also appears in many other movies in lesser roles, such as in \"Phi Ta Wan Kap Achan Ta Bo\" (2008) , among others.\n\nKrasue, as \"Ap\" (also spelt \"Arp\" or \"Arb\"), is present in the Cambodian horror films \"Neang Arp\" (Lady Vampire) (2004), \"Tiyen Arp\" (Heredity of Krasue) (2007), \"Arb Kalum\" (The Sexiest Krasue) (2009) and \"Phlerng Chhes Arb\". Hong Kong's \"Witch with the Flying Head\" (飛頭魔女) (1977), which includes a \"Krasue\" spitting flames and firing laser beams and that was dubbed in Thai as \"Krasue Sawat\" (กระสือสวาท), meaning \"Lovely Krasue\", and Indonesia's \"Mystics in Bali\" (1981) also feature local versions of Krasue. In the Vietnam War-era drama \"Freedom Deal\" by Camerado, President Nixon orders the 1970 military incursion into Cambodia, unwittingly unleashing a legion of local ghosts similar to the Krasue.\n\nThis ghost appears periodically in Thai television soap operas (ละคร). \"Krasue\", a popular \"lakhon\" aired between 20 December 1994 and 21 March 1995, as well as the more recent \"Krasue Mahanakhon\" (กระสือมหานคร) —in which the ghost story for a change is against a background of young city people instead of the usual rural or traditional setting— feature a \"Krasue\" in the central role. The theme song of the 1994 \"Krasue\" TV soap opera became very famous. There was a remake in 2011 named \"Krasue Cham Sin\" (กระสือจำศีล), but it was poorly cast and produced, not being able to reach the popularity of the 1994 \"lakhon\". A Krasue has been also comically featured in a Sylvania light bulb commercial for Thai audiences and in a more recent dietary supplement ad. A rather ugly Krasue also appears in the animated film \"Nak\".\n\nRepresentations of Krasue, often humorous, are very common in Thai comic books.\nSince this ghost is a popular subject in some places of Southeast Asia, especially in Thailand, there are even costumes, dolls, keyholders and lamps in Krasue form.\n\nThe Krasue is one of the enemies found in \"Indivisible\", a role-playing game.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38251670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38251670", "title": "Len Aiyappa", "text": "Len Aiyappa\n\nLen Aiyappa (born 31 March 1979) is an Indian professional field hockey player. He remained one of India's best drag-flickers until he retired from the national team following a fallout with the Indian Hockey Federation in 2006. He last played for India during the Sultan Azlan Shah Cup in 2005.\n\nAiyappa, playing for Karnataka Lions in the inaugural season of the World Series Hockey became the top scorer for the team and third overall, scoring 13 goals in 12 games.\nHe joined the team on the insistence of Dhanraj Pillay and the coach of Karnataka Lions, Jude Felix and scored a hat-trick in the game against Chandigarh Comets.\n\nHe is married.\n"}
{"id": "2707623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2707623", "title": "Licorice McKechnie", "text": "Licorice McKechnie\n\nChristina 'Licorice' McKechnie (born 2 October 1945) is a Scottish musician. She was a singer and songwriter in the Incredible String Band between 1968 and 1972. Her whereabouts have been unknown since 1990.\n\nMcKechnie was born in Edinburgh, Scotland. After reading her poetry at folk clubs in Edinburgh, she met the musician Robin Williamson, but left home in her teens with the intention of marrying Bert Jansch. The banns were published but the wedding never took place. Jansch left her behind to travel to Morocco in 1963, and, according to Williamson, \"she fell into [my] arms\". In 1966 she travelled to Morocco with Williamson, and was later involved in the Incredible String Band's recordings. Her first contribution to the band came in the form of backing vocals on the track \"Painting Box\", on the 1967 album \"The 5000 Spirits or the Layers of the Onion\". By 1968, she was regarded as a fully-fledged member of the band, usually as a backing singer and percussionist, and she performed with them at the Woodstock Festival in August 1969. By 1972 she had left the band, after her relationship with Williamson ended.\n\nIn 1974, McKechnie appeared onstage at a Scientology benefit concert in East Grinstead with Mike Garson, Woody Woodmansey, Leonard Halliwell and others, before moving to California and joining the Silver Moon Band. She later married the musician Brian Lambert; they later divorced. She appeared with Williamson and his Merry Band in 1977, and is credited as Likky Lambert on the 1977 album \"Journey's Edge\", before joining Woody Woodmansey's band U-Boat.\n\nShe visited Edinburgh in 1986 to see her family, but her whereabouts have been unknown since 1990, when, according to her sister, she was in Sacramento, California, apparently recovering from surgery. The music journalist Mark Ellen wrote in \"Mojo\" magazine in 2000 that she was \"last seen in 1987 hitchhiking across the Arizona Desert. Not even her family has heard from her since.\" Fellow former Incredible String Band member Rose Simpson was quoted as saying: \"There's a possibility she may be dead.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "277277", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=277277", "title": "Lili Elbe", "text": "Lili Elbe\n\nLili Ilse Elvenes (28 December 1882 – 13 September 1931), better known as Lili Elbe, was a Danish transgender woman and among the early recipients of sex reassignment surgery. \n\nElbe was born Einar Magnus Andreas Wegener, and was a successful painter under that name. During this time she also presented as Lili (sometimes spelled Lily) and was introduced publicly as Einar's sister. \n\nAfter successfully transitioning in 1930, she changed her legal name to Lili Ilse Elvenes and stopped painting altogether. The name Lili Elbe was given to her by Copenhagen journalist Louise Lassen. She died from complications involving a uterus transplant. Her autobiography \"Man into Woman\" was published posthumously in 1933.\n\nIt is generally believed that Elbe was born in 1882, in Vejle, Denmark. Her year of birth is sometimes stated as 1886, which appears to be from a book about her which has some facts changed to protect the identities of the persons involved. Facts about the life of Elbe's wife Gerda Gottlieb suggest that the 1882 date is correct because they married while at college in 1904, when she would have been just eighteen if the 1886 date were correct.\n\nIt is speculated that Elbe was intersex, although that has been disputed. Some reports indicate that she already had rudimentary ovaries in her abdomen and she may have had Klinefelter syndrome.\n\nElbe met Gerda Gottlieb while they were students at the Royal Danish Academy of Fine Arts in Copenhagen, and they married in 1904 when Gottlieb was 19 and Elbe was 22. They worked as illustrators, with Elbe's specializing in landscape paintings, and Gottlieb illustrated books and fashion magazines. \n\nThey traveled through Italy and France, eventually settling in Paris in 1912, where Elbe could live openly as a woman, and Gottlieb identified as lesbian. Elbe received the Neuhausens prize in 1907 and exhibited at Kunstnernes Efterårsudstilling (the Artists' Fall Exhibition), at the Vejle Art Museum, and in the Saloon and Salon d'Automme in Paris. She is represented at Vejle Art Museum in Denmark.\n\nElbe started dressing in women's clothes after filling in for Gottlieb's absentee model; she was asked to wear stockings and heels so her legs could substitute for those of the model. Elbe felt surprisingly comfortable in the clothing and began identifying as a woman. Over time, Gottlieb became famous for her paintings of beautiful women with haunting, almond-shaped eyes dressed in chic fashions. In 1913, the unsuspecting public was shocked to discover that the model who had inspired Gottlieb's depictions of \"petites femmes fatales\" was in fact Elbe.\n\nIn the 1920s and 1930s, Elbe regularly presented as a woman, attending various festivities and entertaining guests in her house. One of the things she liked to do was disappear into the streets of Paris in the throngs of revelers during the Carnival, wearing her modeling fashions. Elbe was sometimes introduced by Gottlieb as her sister when she was dressed in female attire. Only her closest friends knew once she had transitioned.\n\nIn 1930, Elbe went to Germany for sex reassignment surgery, which was highly experimental at the time. A series of four operations were carried out over a period of two years. The first surgery, removal of the testicles, was made under the supervision of sexologist Magnus Hirschfeld in Berlin. The rest of Elbe's surgeries were carried out by Kurt Warnekros, a doctor at the Dresden Municipal Women's Clinic. The second operation was to implant an ovary onto her abdominal musculature, the third to remove the penis and the scrotum, and the fourth to transplant a uterus and construct a vaginal canal.\n\nAt the time of Elbe's last surgery, her case was already a sensation in newspapers of Denmark and Germany. A Danish court invalidated the couple's marriage in October 1930, and Elbe managed to get her sex and name legally changed, including receiving a passport as Lili Ilse Elvenes. She stopped painting, believing it to be something that was part of the identity of Einar. After the dissolution of their marriage, Elbe returned to Dresden for her fourth surgery.\n\nElbe became the second transgender woman to undergo Gohrbandt's vaginoplasty technique in 1931, after Dora Richter underwent the same procedure. Her castration and penectomy had been performed by Dr. Ludwig Levy-Lenz (1889–1966) the previous year. These preliminaries have sometimes caused confusion over the date of her reassignment surgery. Gohrbandt's surgery deliberately left remnants of the scrotum intact, with a view to modifying these into labia at a later date, but for reasons that are unclear, he did not perform this further procedure himself. Instead, Elvenes' case was taken over by Dr. Kurt Warnekros (1882–1949), at the Dresden Women's Clinic. Here, the labiaplasty and a subsequent surgical revision led, in the pre-antibiotic age, to Elbe's death from infection in September 1931.\n\nThe book-burning at the Institute for Sexual Research by Nazi students in May 1933, the obliteration of the Dresden Women's Clinic and its records in the Allied bombing raids of February 1945, and the myth-making process itself have left gaps and inconsistencies in the Lili Elbe narrative that may never be resolved.\n\nElbe began a relationship with French art dealer Claude Lejeune, whom she wanted to marry and with whom she wanted to have children. She was looking forward to her final surgery involving a uterus transplant.\n\nIn June 1931, Elbe had an operation which consisted of implanting a uterus and the construction of a vagina, both of which were new and experimental procedures at that time. Her immune system rejected the transplanted uterus, however, and she developed an infection. She died on September 13, 1931, three months after the surgery, of cardiac arrest brought on by the infection.\n\nElbe was buried on Trinitatisfriedhof in Dresden. The grave was levelled in the 1960s. In April 2016, a new tombstone was inaugurated, financed by Focus Features, the production company of \"The Danish Girl\". The tombstone does not record the date of Elbe's birth, just her name and places of birth and death.\n\nThe LGBT film festival MIX Copenhagen gives four \"Lili\" awards named after Elbe.\n\nIn 2000, David Ebershoff wrote \"The Danish Girl\", a fictionalized account of Elbe's life. It was an international bestseller and was translated into a dozen languages. In 2015, it was made into a film, also called \"The Danish Girl\", produced by Gail Mutrux and Neil LaBute and starring Eddie Redmayne as Elbe. The film was well received at the Venice Film Festival in September 2015, although it has been criticized for its casting of a cisgender man to play a transgender woman. Both the novel and the film omitted topics including Gottlieb's sexuality, which is evidenced by the subjects in her erotic drawings, and the disintegration of Gottlieb and Elbe's relationship after their annulment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29494354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29494354", "title": "List of people from Szczecin", "text": "List of people from Szczecin\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53505347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53505347", "title": "List of rampage killers (other incidents)", "text": "List of rampage killers (other incidents)\n\nThis section of the list of rampage killers contains mass murders by single perpetrators that do not fit into the upper categories, like arson fires, poisonings, and bombings. Cases with more than one offender are not included.\n\nA rampage killer has been defined as follows:\n\nThis list should contain every case with at least one of the following features:\n"}
{"id": "25561671", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25561671", "title": "M. Shahid Qureshi", "text": "M. Shahid Qureshi\n\nDr. Prof. Muhammad Shahid Qureshi or Shahid Qureshi, styled as Dr. M. Shahid Qureshi, is a Pakistani astrophysicist and a renowned astronomer. He is an academic and an eminent educationist from Pakistan who has published articles in the fields of astrophysics and astronomy. He is the Professor of astrophysics and astronomy at Karachi University and Institute of Space and Planetary Astrophysics (ISPA), and also leading ISPA, the country's prominent institution in the field of planetary astrophysics and planetary astronomy. He previously served as an Assistant Professor of mathematics.\n\nHe is an avid supporter of science and technology in Pakistan and has helped directing documentaries concerning about the astrophysics and astronomy. He has also appeared in Geo Television and Dawn News frequently where he briefed the nation on Solar eclipse of 22 July 2009.\n\nHe graduated and received a BSc with Honors in Applied Mathematics from Department of Mathematics of University of Karachi in 1979. He then received his MSc in Mathematics from the same institution with specialisation in Quantum mechanics, and Astronomy in 1983. In between, he served United Bank Limited, Karachi as a computer programmer to earn his living. In 1983, after getting his master's degree, he joined as a fellow the Pakistan Institute of Nuclear Science and Technology, where he joined the \"Mathematical Physics Group\", and did preliminary research there.\n\nHe left PINSTECH in 1984, and moved to Karachi, Sindh. He joined University of Karachi as a lecturer to fulfill his dream to become a professor of Mathematics. Under the supervision of noted quantum theorist and renowned particle physicist Dr. Khursheed Ather Siddiqui, he did his MPhil in Particle physics from University of Karachi, writing a thesis and covered major area in the field of \"Supersymmetric Quantum Mechanics\". In 2002, he moved to the Institute of Space and Planetary Astrophysics on the directions of the then-Vice-Chancellor of University of Karachi, Dr. Zafar Saeed Saifi. Qureshi did his PhD. in astrophysics and Astronomy from ISPA in 2008.\n\nHis doctoral thesis is on the \"Earliest Visibility of New Lunar Crescent\". He has occasionally lectured in the field computational mathematics at Lahore University of Management Sciences (LUMS). He was serving at the Institute of Business Administration, Karachi (IBA) as the Chaiperson, Department of Mathematical Sciences of the Faculty of Computer Science, on deputation from University of Karachi and left from his position at IBA on completion of his deputation period in March 2016. At IBA he has not only established the department of Mathematical Sciences, he has also started the double major BS program in Mathematics and Economics, the first of its kind in Karachi. Moreover, he also played key role in developing the board of advanced studies and research at IBA that lead to formalise the graduate programs at IBA. In the mean time he also started MS and PhD programs in Mathematics at IBA.\n\nQureshi joined the teaching profession in 1984 at the University of Karachi. Later, he joined Institute of Business Administration, Karachi. For a brief period he also served the Department of Computer Science as a full-time Faculty member. Besides, he also taught as visiting faculty at various private sector Universities in Karachi including Institute of Business Administration.\n\nHe is a well-known astrophysicist in Pakistan. And, he has given numerous interviews to the media, concerning the fields of physical cosmology, astronomy, and astrophysics. He played an important role in re-establishing the Karachi University's Astronomical Observatory. As a noted space scientist at ISPA, he is engaged in research on Supersymmetric quantum mechanics, lunar phase, light pollution and solar energy.\n\nAt the Karachi University, he has maintain vital relationship with the professors from Karachi University. According to him, his professors played an important role in his life and influenced him to gain his doctorate in astronomy and astrophysics. According to an interview given to the Dawn News, it was one of his professors who influenced him to gain his doctorate degrees in astronomy. He laments, \"In 1990, one of my professors said that very soon Pakistan will be asking the world to send us teachers to teach mathematics and physics as we ran out of them. Today I am forwarding his message: we do not have teachers to teach mathematics and physics\".\n\nIn 1983, he received his MSc in applied mathematics and M.Phil. in 1995 writing his thesis on Supersymmetric quantum mechanics, from Karachi University. In 2008, he was awarded his PhD. in Astrophysics and Astronomy, in which he wrote his thesis on \"the effects of atmospheric conditions on crescent visibility, from the Karachi University.\n\nHe has been a vocal advocate for space research in Pakistan. Qureshi has been appeared in different Pakistani news channels and educational channels in which he has been advocating for space research in Pakistan. He has also been a core planner and organizer of several astronomical and astrophysics events at universities and high schools. With the help of Karachi University's Physics department, he planned a \"Space Week\" in ISPA on 31 October 2008.\n\nThe event was called \"Planet Watch\" and a number of high school and college students were invited. He also delivered a lecture at the conference in which he urged: \"You don’t need any equipment for astronomy. All you need is a pair of eyes and curiosity about the cosmos.\"\n\nHe also briefly explained the origins of the seven-day week denomination: \"According to initial cosmology, the ancients considered the planets to be a total of seven: Mercury, Venus, Mars, Jupiter, Saturn, the Sun and the Moon (also considered planets). Hence, the days of the week were also seven\".\n\nHe concluded the lecture with the nature of his involvement with the team at Institute of Space and Planetary Astrophysics, where he worked on astronomical objects, astrophysical plasma, and physical cosmology.\n\nQureshi's articles have been printed in international and national physics journals. He has been a known cited researcher in the field of computer programming while studying at Karachi University. He has been researching to the fields of astrophysics in relation with elementary particle physics and published numerous papers at ISPA. In relation to astrophysics to particle physics, he, once elaborate, while giving a lectured:\n\n\"The well-known grand unification theory had two directions of research in the 1980s and '90s. The Supersymmetric theory appeared as one of the results. The empirical predictions of which, could not be tested till today, due to the absence of laboratories. We will be able to test some predictions of the supersymmetry theory when the Large Hadron Collider functions at its full capability. Particle physics and astrophysics, along wide with astronomy, has remained to explore the nature of forces in the first place and of course which is closely related to cosmology, in which we describe the structure of the universe. So the other aspect of my research was astronomy and astrophysics.\"\n\nHis work has been far reaching and influential. Due to lack to researches to the fields of astrophysics and astronomy; Qureshi's work has been a vital support to an academic research in astrophysics. At SUPARCO, he also helped manufacturing and setting up the space observatory along with the Chinese scientists.\n\nHe has been supporting the Satellite Launch Vehicle project program at SUPARCO. He has been also urged that Pakistan should launch its satellites via either Sonmiani or Tilla. In an interview while discussing Pakistan's status on Satellite Launch Vehicle with noted nuclear physicist Dr. Pervez Hoodbhoy. While in discussion, he urged that missiles have very roboost and effective electronics and computer system, the SLVs used the similar technology. Dr. M. Shahid Qureshi also urges that Pakistan has the basic technology to build an SLV.\n\nHe discloses the discussion with Dr. Hoodbhoy and said \"If we can launch a missile up to a range of 1,500 km, why not build an SLV that can launch low-atmosphere satellites?\" he said. According to Dr. M.S. Qureshi, \"we can begin by launching navigation, spy and weather satellites, which can go up to 1,500 km into space. This alone can give us a lot of data that we need to buy now\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25825437", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25825437", "title": "Margaret Behan", "text": "Margaret Behan\n\nMargaret Behan is a Native American woman who is Southern Arapaho-Cheyenne on her mother's side, and Northern Arapahoe/Northern Cheyenne on her father's side. and a fourth generation descendant of a survivor of the Sand Creek Massacre. Behan is a former member of the International Council of 13 Grandmothers.\n\nBehan is \"of the Kit Fox Clan of the Cheyenne Nation of Oklahoma on her mother’s side, and on her father’s side she is half Northern Cheyenne and half Arapahoe of the Rabbit Lodge.\" She was one of eight children. Her parents were migrant farmworkers. Behan claims that she was prayed for and a Peyote ceremony was arranged before her conception.\n\nBehan had 3 children, 11 grandchildren, and one great grandchild.\n\nMargaret's mother-in-law, noticed how well Margaret worked on a pair of beaded moccasins and suggested that she might want to work in clay. Margaret felt so confident in her new career as an artist that she resigned from her job in 1982 and took up her new artistic career full-time. Her work is mentioned in four Folk Art books. She later moved to Taos, New Mexico due to the properties of the clay there.\n\nMargaret suffered from alcohol addiction as a young woman. She feels that she drank in order to 'fit in' with her friends. With the aid of addiction clinics, and more of her grandparent's ceremonies, Margaret was able to become free of her addiction.\n\nAs a result of this experience, Margaret trained to be a Licensed Substance abuse Counselor and with her traditional teachings, has led retreats for children and co-dependants of alcoholics to help other First Nation people that had found themselves in a similar position. Historical trauma commonly leads to alcohol, drug, and behaviour issues.\n\nMargaret is the founder of \"The Cheyenne Elders Council\", formed in 2007-2008, with Behan as the sole member, and has the mission to, \"Heal Our Own Oppression.\" She had moved to the Northern Cheyenne Reservation, where her father was from, and \"was troubled when she heard one of her people say that Cheyenne youth would have to save themselves,\" saying \"They were not getting any kind of influence or teaching from the elders.\" \"A project Behan and the Cheyenne Elders Council completed as part of the 11th council is the creation of the T’sistsistas’s Sacred School in Behan’s home. There, healers of the tribe will teach Cheyenne healing ways to the tribe’s youth.\" Behan says, \"We need to bring our Cheyenne identity and pride back to the young people, teach them the traditional ceremonies and language.\"\n\nShe was interviewed by AARP International Magazine in October, 2011.\n\nIn 2006, a chapter in the book \"Grandmother's Council the World\", features Behan and the Native American Church, founded by her grandparents. This movement, (illegal at the time), allowed the combining of traditional ceremonies which then allowed the First Nation people's to stay connected to their traditional beliefs. \nIn 2012, Behan hosted \"the 11th Gathering of the International Council of 13 Indigenous Grandmothers ... on the Northern Cheyenne Reservation July 26 to 29,\" at which the riders commemorating the Northern Cheyenne Exodus of 1878 shared stories of their journey.\"The Ride Home\" \"The gathering ... [was] set up as a traditional Cheyenne encampment\", with \"thirteen teepees, one for each grandmother.\" In attendance was a great-great-great grandniece of General Custer, who made a \"formal apology to the Northern Cheyenne,\" and a great-great-granddaughter of Brig. Gen. Anson Mills, who also offered an apology.\n\nA two-part video of attendees from Vashon Intuitive Arts describing the event is available on the Internet Archive.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26798165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26798165", "title": "Maska (Hazara tribe)", "text": "Maska (Hazara tribe)\n\nThe Maska are a tribe of the Hazara people, found in Afghanistan and neighboring countries.\n\nMaska is a sub-tribe of Jaghori tribe of Hazaras in Afghanistan. For long times ago Maska and Babah were twin brothers and according to the old myth they were separated by knife. In Afghanistan their ancestral place is Sange-e-Masha in Jaghori District of Ghazni Province.\n\n\nFirsts this counsel need a general survey of this tribe that how many people are in contact with their group, how many are out as that will form a true sattlement and organization. There seen a game of power by few people among this tribe whom try to drive this by their will.\n\nThe earlier election was held under the supervision of ... in the Day . . . month . . . year by the participation of . . . % of population true settlers of Quetta city and the office barriers are as under. Many of the top heads of this tribe are not aware of this election and their participation, the activity of counsel are often seen during provincial and national assembly elections after five year.\n\nBy the year 2018 the under mentioned office barriers are no more on their position as they reached to the time and expired.\n\n\n\nلطفا بنوسید برار قوم\n\n"}
{"id": "723502", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=723502", "title": "Meg Griffin", "text": "Meg Griffin\n\nMegan \"Meg\" Griffin is a fictional character in the animated television series \"Family Guy\". Meg is the eldest child of Peter and Lois Griffin and older sister of Stewie and Chris, but is also the family's scapegoat who receives the least of their attention and bears the brunt of their abuse. She is often bullied, ridiculed, and ignored.\n\nMeg first appeared on television, along with the rest of the Griffin family, in a 15-minute short on December 20, 1998. She was created and designed by \"Family Guy\" creator Seth MacFarlane, who was asked to pitch a pilot to the Fox Broadcasting Company, based on \"The Life of Larry\" and \"Larry & Steve\", two shorts made by MacFarlane featuring a middle-aged man named Larry and an intellectual dog, Steve. After the pilot was given the greenlight, the Griffin family appeared in the episode \"Death Has a Shadow\".\n\nOriginally voiced by Lacey Chabert during the first season, Meg has been voiced by Mila Kunis since season 2.\n\nMeg is a self-conscious and insecure adolescent girl. She is treated unfairly by various people and has numerous insecurities that prompt her to try to be part of the \"in-crowd\", which only results in her getting rebuffed by the many bullies of this circle, particularly Connie D'Amico, the head cheerleader of the local high school, James Woods Regional High School. However, a nerdy student named Neil Goldman is attracted to her. \n\nMeg is usually the butt of Peter's jokes due to her unpopularity and \"ugliness\"; Peter resorts to outrageous stunts and names. Stewie and Brian tend to disdain her kindness, but they typically do it behind Meg's back. Lois constantly puts Meg down, while boosting her own egotistical image. Lois is usually of little to no help to Meg when she is abused by others; though she is not as abusive towards Meg as Peter is. \n\nWhile Meg is usually a pushover, she can get angry if pushed too far, though such occasions are usually rare. This can be seen in the episode \"Seahorse Seashell Party\", where she strongly insults and defames Peter, Lois, and even Chris for their inconsiderate actions toward her. This causes Peter, Lois, and Chris to distance themselves in shame and sends Peter into depression; though she later apologizes upon realizing that the family needs a \"lightning rod\" to absorb the dysfunction. In the episode \"Road to Rupert\", Meg assaults a man for insulting her after a fender-bender. \n\nMany of the show's storylines about Meg involve her trying to improve her life, find a boyfriend, and reaching breaking points with her family and others who victimize her.\n\nOut of all the members of the family, her father Peter abuses her the most, however he is shown to actually care about Meg in various episodes, such as in \"Meg and Quagmire\" when he goes out of his way to prevent Glenn Quagmire from having sex with her, and in \"This Little Piggy\" where he tries to get Meg out of a foot fetishism business objectifying her for men's sexual amusement. Peter cares about Meg but is not open about it to anyone.\n\nOn the season 1 DVD commentary for the \"Drawn Together\" episode \"Hot Tub\", Cree Summer claims she was offered the role to play Meg but was dismissed by the producers. Meg was voiced by an uncredited Lacey Chabert for the first season, and by Mila Kunis in subsequent seasons after Chabert became busy with school and appearing on \"Party of Five\" at the time, although some of her work became second season episodes due to production order. Mila Kunis won the role after auditions and a slight rewrite of the character, in part due to her performance on \"That '70s Show\". MacFarlane called Kunis back after her first audition, instructing her to speak more slowly, and then told her to come back another time and enunciate more. Once she claimed that she had it under control, MacFarlane hired her. MacFarlane stated that Kunis \"had a very natural quality to Meg\" and she's \"in a lot of ways [...] almost more right for the character\". Kunis's voice is first heard as Meg in Episode 3 of season two \"Da Boom\", and the voices switch back and forth in the broadcast order until settling on Kunis. Tara Strong provides Meg's singing voice in \"Don't Make Me Over\".\n\nMeg is very unpopular in high school due to both her plain appearance and personality. She desperately tries to be part of the cool crowd, but is usually coldly rebuffed. Because of her eagerness for acceptance, she has been recruited \"unknowingly\" into a suicidal religious cult, and later recruited again unwittingly into her school's Lesbian Alliance (\"Brian Sings and Swings\"). However, Meg does have a moderate number of friends, the best of whom being a group of girls who are often seen with her during occasions such as her slumber parties and gossiping about boys. In later episodes, these girls, known by the names Beth, Patty, Collette, Esther, and Ruth, are characterized as being highly unpopular and dateless, much like Meg.\n\nMeg is so unpopular at school that one student fires a nail gun into his own stomach twice (in shop class) in order to avoid a date with her, and then in a later episode shoots his own brother as an excuse not to go to a dance with her the following night. In \"Don't Make Me Over\", Lois is looking for new clothes for Meg, but with no luck; a saleswoman ends up pouring gasoline on herself, lighting a match, catching fire, and then jumping out of a window after looking at Meg in a pair of jeans. However, she is sought by nerd Neil Goldman. In \"8 Simple Rules for Buying My Teenage Daughter\", Neil starts dating a girl named Cecilia, Meg becomes instantly jealous and pretends to date Jake Tucker to make him jealous. This leads to her signing a contract to become Neil's girlfriend and (not knowing at first) his slave, but she gets him to tear up the contract after Lois seduces him. Perverted neighbor Glenn Quagmire has shown a repeated interest in her, mostly due to his very low standards, asking if she has reached the age of consent. Quagmire comes close to succeeding in \"Meg and Quagmire\" when Lois tells Peter to back off after he was ruining Meg and Quagmire's 'dates'. Then, they rescue Meg after Glenn takes her to his cabin, Peter and Lois arriving in time before anything happens. In several episodes she is shown dating, including stories with characters Mayor Adam West and nudist Jeff Campbell. She also loses her virginity unknowingly on live television to \"Saturday Night Live\" host Jimmy Fallon after having a drastic makeover; but, before all that happens, she goes out with a rebel at her school named Craig Hoffman. In \"Jerome is the New Black\", Jerome, an old flame of Lois's and Peter's new friend, admits to having sex with Meg, to which Peter replies indifferently.\n\nIn the episode \"Brian Sings and Swings\", a lesbian student named Sarah invites Meg to join in her Lesbian Alliance Club, with Meg not knowing at first what kind of club it was. Desperate to fit in, she pretends to be a lesbian and also pretends to be attracted to Sarah and even goes so far as to kiss her to prove it. At the end of the episode, Meg goes over to Sarah's house to admit she lied about being a lesbian (Sarah thought that Meg came over to have sex and even undresses when Meg is telling her that she lied), much to Glenn's (who was hiding in Sarah's closet) disappointment. She also used to have a crush on anchorman Tom Tucker, but it ended after she discovered his vanity and selfishness.\n\nIn other episodes, she is portrayed as chronically incapable of finding a boyfriend. For her Junior Prom she accepts a pity date from Brian, the family dog and only after threatening suicide.\n\nEarlier in season 2, she dated Joe Swanson's son Kevin Swanson, but in \"Stew-Roids\" it is mentioned that Kevin died in Iraq. In the episode, \"Prick Up Your Ears\", she dates a boy named Doug, but he breaks up with her when he sees her naked right before almost having sex. In the episode \"Peter's Daughter\", Meg falls in love with a medical student named Michael Milano after coming out of a short coma (caused by Peter when he asked her to \"rescue\" beer and make him a sandwich out of an already flooded kitchen) and they start to date. After he breaks up with Meg (because of Peter being overprotective of her after promising that if she came out of the coma, he would \"treat her like a princess\"), she announces that she is pregnant by Michael and the two get engaged. After finding out that she is not actually pregnant, Meg tells Michael the truth hoping that he will stay, however, Michael quickly leaves Meg at the altar. In the episode \"Dial Meg for Murder\", she is dating a convict, while in the episode \"Go, Stewie, Go!\" she dates an attractive young man named Anthony, who is absolutely normal (much to the surprise of many of the other characters). They were so shocked that they had to do tests just to see if he was completely normal which annoyed Meg. It is presumed that she broke up with him after he and Lois had an affair. Meg also shows extremely possessive behavior when she encounters someone she believes she has a romantic connection with such as kidnapping Brian and detaining Bonnie Swanson at the airport by planting a gun in her purse.\n\nOverall, Meg has shown romantic interest in and dated several men throughout the series. However, there have been several instances in which she has shown hints of being bisexual or a lesbian: examples of this include \"Brian Sings and Swings\", \"Stew-Roids\", and \"Dial Meg for Murder\".\n\nIn November 2016, when asked by Splitsider if the writers will further develop the characters of Chris and Meg in future episodes, showrunner Alec Sulkin confirmed that the series crew members are working on doing so and added that there are plans for an episode where Meg comes out as a lesbian, taking inspiration from previous instances in which she exhibited signs of lesbian characteristics, like when she joins a lesbian alliance group at school in \"Brian Sings and Swings\" and is identified as a \"transgender man\" named \"Ron\" in \"\", the latter which takes place in the future. However, Sulkin also noted that the plotline has not yet been finalized and thus isn't officially set to be used in an episode.\n\nIn the first three seasons of the show, Meg was portrayed with a more whiny and uptight personality who was often embarrassed by the family’s acts of bumbling and stupidity, though they cared for her and meant well. In the post-cancellation seasons, this began to change as the inadvertent embarrassment became deliberate bullying and disrespect. Additionally, the show started to flesh out the characters to the point where it appears that most of the population of Quahog who knows her, or even just meets her, picks on or disdains her for no reason other than her simply being \"Meg\". This basically means that she is a victim of circumstance, as Meg is normally docile and well-behaved and never seems to do anything mean or inconsiderate. In an interview, Mila Kunis stated: \"Meg gets picked on a lot. But it's funny. It's like the middle child. She is constantly in the state of being an awkward 16-year-old, when you're kind of going through puberty and what-not. She's just in perpetual mode of humiliation, and it's fun.\"\n\nWhile Meg is, in reality, the least obnoxious or self-involved of the family, she is also the least respected and most misunderstood, often shown by people avoiding her company, disparaging her in person, gathering in her bedroom to read her diary for laughs, etc. Peter reminds Lois, \"We agreed that if we could only save two, we'd leave Meg!\" even randomly shooting her when she simply said \"Hi Dad\" (\"Peter's Daughter\") but despite this he also was going to say \"I love you\" in \"Hell Comes to Quahog\", and in \"Road to Rupert\" he stated they were 'secret best friends' before throwing lemonade in her face, saying he would have to continue to treat her badly in public in order to maintain his reputation due to \"peer pressure\", thus giving hope that they may be on good terms. Occasionally, when Meg asks a question to Peter or just speaks when he is in the room, Peter responds by saying \"Shut up, Meg\", which is immediately followed by a line from another character.\n\nWhen the family tries an anger management technique of writing letters and not sending them, Meg finds Peter's letter to her, which says, \"Dear Meg, for the first four years of your life, I thought you were a house cat.\" And in Peter's short story of her birth, they had to go back to get her once they realized they grabbed the afterbirth. In the episode \"Stewie Kills Lois\", Peter tells guests on a cruise ship about how he and Lois had gone to get an abortion but decided against it when they arrived at the clinic and found out the abortionist had one hand. He then says \"two and a half months later, our daughter Meg was born\" – indicating that they had tried to abort her when Lois was already over six months pregnant. Another hint to this is when Meg is in the car with Lois and at an attempt to make civilized conversation, says, \"Hey Meg, did you know that if you're on birth control and you take an antibiotic it makes it not work? 'Cause no one told me! I just thought you should know\" and laughs awkwardly. On Meg's 17th birthday, her mother and father both try to hide from Meg that they do not remember her age. Peter states that Meg sucks in the episode \"PTV\", and Chris says that people think the same thing about her in \"Long John Peter\". In \"Not All Dogs Go to Heaven\", Brian says to Meg's face that she lives in a home \"where nobody respects or cares about [her], not even enough to get [her] a damn mumps shot!\" Chris, however, has more of a typical brother-sister relationship with Meg, with Chris telling those who condemn her that it is never her fault. Chris, at one point, threatened to quit his job at the local mini-mart if his boss didn't re-hire Meg (at the insistence of Lois). Like Chris, Meg has an anthropomorphic monkey in her closet, and although she has proved it, her father coldly state that they were talking about Chris', not hers. Cleveland comments to Peter \"Meg is my least favorite of your children.\"\n\nApparently, a double standard also exists against Meg, further underscoring the mistreatment she suffers from the people around her. In \"Big Man on Hippocampus\", an episode wherein Peter loses his memory, as he reacquaints himself with the pleasures of sex, Lois tells him that it is inappropriate to have sex with his own children; in response, Meg attempts an incest joke. She then lambastes her for this and kicks her out of the room. However, in the season finale \"Partial Terms of Endearment\", Lois tells a joke that implies that it was Meg that gave birth to Stewie, and apart from a shocked reaction from the latter, Lois receives no such violent reaction. Additionally, in \"Model Misbehavior\", when Lois starts a modeling career, Peter states that he will pleasure himself to Lois' pictures, followed by Chris and Meg both exclaiming \"Me too!\" to which Peter shouts \"Oh God, Meg, that's sick! That's your mother!\", ignoring the fact that Chris said the same thing first. Meg responded by saying \"I was only trying to fit in!\" Peter immediately kicked her out of the house. Later, during an unrelated conversation, when she tried to insight Peter on how Lois' behavior from modeling made a poor example for women, he said \"Meg, who let you back in the house?\"\n\nBrian's attention initially softens the lack of respect from Peter and the rest of family; he admits that he cares for Meg when she goes out with Mayor Adam West. While initially seeming to have more common decency for Meg than most people, this appears to almost completely disappear after the tenth season, as Brian's increasingly shallow and self-centered character begins to take more pleasure and joy in being rotten to Meg and often refuses to give her the time of day, such as desperately trying to avoid having to comfort her, rejecting an offer by Peter to be Meg's godfather, attempting to pin the blame on (or trying to frame) her for a misdeed, finding humor in her being puked on, and even willing to deliberately urinate on her bed. Meg's most complicated relationship among the family members after Peter would be with her mother Lois. Although not as abusive as Peter, Lois seldom (if ever) reprimands her husband for their treatment of their daughter and tends to be rather thoughtless of Meg herself, often putting her down for her lack of social achievement or social popularity. Throughout the series, Lois can best be described as a general foil to her daughter, being more rebellious, outgoing, and spunky compared to her daughter's own uptight demeanor and easily-embarrassed or discouraged personality. Before the more recent seasons of the series, Lois has also often shown sympathy for Meg and tried to boost her confidence in terms of teenage social matters. Occasionally however, such occasions resulted in the former getting carried away and stealing the show, for example, taking her to Spring Break at the beach, only for her former younger wild side to kick in and completely exclude Meg from the excitement. Lois would very often comfort Meg when she is down; however, she gives up one attempt after 45 minutes and gives her a Sylvia Plath novel and a bottle of Ambien, and with a \"Whatever happens, happens\", leaves Meg to her misery.\nOne of the most cruel examples of the family's lack of humanity or gratitude for Meg comes in the episode \"You Can't Do That On Television, Peter\". When Peter is mauled by a puma, Meg uses medical training to save his life. However, no one thanks her afterward and when she tries to point it out, Peter just tells her to get him water.\n\nThe family's treatment of Meg finally reaches her limit in \"Dial Meg for Murder\" when Meg emerges from a short stint in a Young Offenders Institution as a hardened criminal, abusing her family and beating up anyone who makes fun of her. It is only after a conversation with Brian that she changes her ways. However, it comes to a head once again in \"Seahorse Seashell Party\", when Meg finally grows tired of her mistreatment and lashes out against Lois and Peter, informing them of their own flaws. Lois condescendingly tells Meg that she is simply taking her own problems out on everyone else invoking Meg to bring up her mother's delinquent past. Meg tells her that she is far from the perfect parent, harshly berates her for constantly and ruthlessly pointing out Meg's shortcomings. Lois tries to justify that she's a better person because of her past and she is open that she isn't the perfect parent, but Meg tells her that she's the farthest thing from and states how she has neglected to guide her through life and navigate her through the hardships and difficulties of being a young woman. Meg also informs Lois that when she turns 18, she may never want to see her again. This breaks Lois' heart and she finally admits that she's been a terrible mother to Meg. Finally, Meg turns on Peter who, unable to comprehend her insults, thinks that his daughter's argument is amusing, even when she points out Peter's destructive tendencies and that he would go to jail if someone could witness his negative treatment towards her. It dawns on Peter that he is being insulted when Meg calls him a \"waste of a man.\" A disillusioned Peter asks Lois to tell Meg to \"knock it off\", but Lois refuses because he didn't stick up for her. Within moments, Peter turns his abusive criticisms and insults on Chris and Lois. Peter finally runs to his room crying, with Lois running after him, leaving behind Meg and Brian, who is now fully recovered from his trip, to discuss what just happened. Brian likes that Meg stood up for herself, but she sadly tells him that even though she meant every word, seeing Peter turn on everyone like wolves has made her think that it is ultimately her non-ideal role to serve as the Griffins' \"lightning rod that absorbs all the dysfunction\". He commends her on her maturity, and even goes on to say that Meg is the \"strongest person\" in the family. She soon apologizes to the others and says that she is actually the one at fault.\n\nSince this episode, the abuse that Meg receives begins to fade away as a storyline. She also notices that Peter's pro wrestler sister Karen treats Peter exactly the way Peter treats her, and they bond over this with a plan to embarrass Karen at a wrestling show—which goes awry when Meg hits her with a metal folding chair instead of a breakaway one and injures Karen to the point where she ends up in a coma and (as it is implied) possibly will die from her injuries without a blood transfusion.\n\n"}
{"id": "54303321", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54303321", "title": "Megan Rohrer", "text": "Megan Rohrer\n\nMegan Rohrer (born April 3, 1980) is an American pastor and activist. Rohrer (who prefers gender-neutral \"singular they\" pronouns) is the first openly transgender minister to be ordained by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.\n\nRohrer was born in 1980 in Sioux Falls, South Dakota. In 1998, they graduated from high school and enrolled in Augustana University to study religion. In college they came out as a lesbian, and became president of the Gay-Straight Alliance. They encountered resistance, threats, and attempted \"cures\" by fellow students for their sexuality. Rohrer graduated from Augustana in 2001.\n\nRohrer moved to the San Francisco Bay Area in 2002 to continue their studies. By this time they had come to identify as transgender. Rohrer attended Pacific Lutheran Theological Seminary and Pacific School of Religion in Berkeley, California, earning a Master of Divinity from PSR in 2005 and a Doctor of Ministry in 2016.\n\nRohrer was ordained in 2006, becoming the first openly transgender person to be ordained by the Evangelical Lutheran Church in America.\n\nIn 2010, Rohrer and six other Bay Area gay and transgender pastors were reinstated into the Evangelical Lutheran Church, after the national assembly voted to allow partnered gay people to serve as clergy. The pastors' churches had previously been banned from the denomination for ordaining gay and lesbian ministers who refused to take vows of celibacy.\n\nIn 2014, Rohrer was installed as pastor of Grace Evangelical Lutheran Church in San Francisco.\n\nIn 2017, Rohrer was hired by the San Francisco Police Department as their first chaplain from the LGBTQ community.\n\nRohrer has helped the homeless in San Francisco, serving as Executive Director of the Welcome ministry to the homeless and hungry, leading the Singers of the Street choir, distributing sandwiches, and participating in a night ministry with other local pastors. Rohrer has also helped to grow and distribute thousands of pounds of free food from community gardens.\n\nIn 2015, Rohrer started a fundraiser to raise bail for Meagan Taylor, a black trans woman who was held in isolation in an Iowa jail.\n\nIn the wake of the 2016 Oakland warehouse fire, in which at least three transgender people were killed, Rohrer was called upon by the city of Oakland to provide support and assistance to the community.\n\nRohrer has advocated for trans people who would be impacted by proposed \"bathroom bills\" that seek to restrict restroom usage based on sex assigned at birth.\n\n\nThrough Grace Lutheran Church and Wilgefortis Press, Rohrer has written a number of books for children in the Good News Children's Book Series.\n\nAdult titles authored or co-authored by Rohrer include:\n\n"}
{"id": "32279", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32279", "title": "Mother Shipton", "text": "Mother Shipton\n\nUrsula Southeil (c. 1488–1561) (also variously spelt as Ursula Southill, Ursula Soothtell or Ursula Sontheil), better known as Mother Shipton, is said to have been an English soothsayer and prophetess. The first publication of her prophecies, which did not appear until 1641, eighty years after her reported death, contained a number of mainly regional predictions, but only two prophetic verses – neither of which foretold the End of the World, despite widespread assumptions to that effect.\n\nOne of the most notable editions of her prophecies was published in 1684. It states that she was born in Knaresborough, Yorkshire, in a cave now known as Mother Shipton's Cave which, along with the Petrifying Well and associated parkland, is operated as a visitor attraction. She was reputed to be hideously ugly. The book also claims that she married Toby Shipton, a local carpenter, near York in 1512 and told fortunes and made predictions throughout her life.\n\nIt is recorded in the diaries of Samuel Pepys that whilst surveying the damage to London caused by the Great Fire in the company of the Royal Family they were heard to discuss Mother Shipton's prophecy of the event.\n\nThe most famous claimed edition of Mother Shipton's prophecies foretells many modern events and phenomena. Widely quoted today as if it were the original, it contains over a hundred prophetic rhymed couplets in notably non-16th-century language and includes the now-famous lines:\n\n<poem>\n\"The world to an end shall come\"\n\"In eighteen hundred and eighty one.\"</poem>\n\nHowever, this version did not appear in print until 1862, and its true author, one Charles Hindley, subsequently admitted in print that he had invented it.\nThis invented prophecy has appeared over the years with different dates and in (or about) several countries (for example in the late 1970s many news articles about Mother Shipton appeared setting the date at 1981). The 1920s (subsequently much reprinted) booklet \"The Life and Prophecies of Ursula Sontheil better known as Mother Shipton\" stated the date as 1991. \n\nAmong other well-known lines from Hindley's fake version (often quoted as if they were original) are:\n<poem>\n\"A Carriage without a horse shall go;\n\"Disaster fill the world with woe...\n\"In water iron then shall float,\n\"As easy as a wooden boat.\"</poem>\n\nQuite who Mother Shipton was or what exactly she said is not definitively known. What is certain is that her name became linked with many tragic events and strange goings-on recorded all over the UK, Australia, and North America throughout the 17th, 18th, and 19th centuries. Many fortune tellers used her effigy and statue, presumably for purposes of association marketing. Many pubs were named after her. Only two survive, one near her birthplace in Knaresborough and the other in Portsmouth, where there is a statue of her above the door.\n\nA caricature of Mother Shipton was used in early pantomime and is believed by historians to be the forerunner of the Panto dame.\n\nThe Mother Shipton Moth (\"Callistege mi\") is named after her. Each wing's pattern resembles a hag's head in profile.\n\nA fundraising campaign was started in 2013 with the goal of raising £35,000 to erect a statue of Shipton in Knaresborough. Completed in October 2017, the statue sits on a bench in the town's Market Square close to a statue of 18th century road engineer John Metcalfe, known as Blind Jack.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36936699", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36936699", "title": "Neil Newhouse", "text": "Neil Newhouse\n\nNeil Newhouse is a co-founder of Public Opinion Strategies, a political survey and polling firm, and was the lead pollster for the unsuccessful presidential campaigns of both John McCain and Mitt Romney against Barack Obama.\n\nNewhouse grew up in Shawnee Mission, Kansas. He graduated from Duke University in 1974 and attended graduate school at the University of Virginia.\n\nIn 1991 he founded the polling company Public Opinion Strategies with Bill McInturff and Glen Bolger, one of the biggest polling firms in Republican politics. He was previously executive vice president at the Wirthlin Group.\n\nIn 1993, Newhouse, who specializes in health-care analysis, worked on creating the Harry and Louise adverts funded by the Health Insurance Association of America to attack President Bill Clinton's health care plan. He was later a senior advisor to Bob Dole's campaign in the 1996 Republican primaries ahead of Clinton's 1996 election, but was fired after Dole lost New Hampshire to Pat Buchanan, though Newhouses's polling had in that instance been accurate.\n\nHe was lead pollster for John McCain's unsuccessful 2008 presidential campaign.\n\nIn 2012, he was again the lead pollster for a Republican Party presidential nominee, this time Mitt Romney, whose presidential campaign was, like McCain's, against Barack Obama. His polls predicted that Romney would win the election, which proved not to be the case. Newhouse put those errors down, in part, to faulty demographic models of likely turnout, an over-emphasis on measures of voter enthusiasm, and relying on random digit dialing rather than lists of registered voters. \n\nResponding to criticism of the factual accuracy of a series of attack ads on welfare policy during the campaign, Newhouse commented to reporters that \"We're not going to let our campaign be dictated by fact-checkers\", at a panel organised by NBC News at the Republican National Convention. The comments drew direct criticism from Obama. In a 2016 interview with the \"Duke Political Review\" he said \"What I meant by that was that every ad we did in the Romney campaign was fact-checked internally ... what I meant was that I wasn't going to let those independent newspaper guys dictate how we’re going to run the strategy of our campaign\". A one-letter typo of his was the subject of several articles when he spelled 'Reagan', 'Regan' in one slide of a PowerPoint presentation. The error came the week after the Romney campaign's \"With Mitt\" iPhone app had spelled \"America\" as \"Amercia\".\n\nFor the 2014 Senate elections, he was an adviser to the Republican campaigns in Colorado, Iowa, Kentucky, Louisiana, Michigan and West Virginia.\n\nThe American Association of Political Consultants (AAPC) has named Newhouse their Pollster of the Year three times, together or jointly. In 2003, the award went to Public Opinion Strategies for its work in the 2002 elections. In 2010, he and Glen Bolger split the award, as the Pollster Team of the Year. Newhouse's win was for his work on Scott Brown's successful run for senator in a special election in Massachusetts. In 2016 he won for his work on the campaign against the legalization of cannabis in Ohio.\n\nNewhouse has a wife, Mary, and two children, with whom he lives in Alexandria, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "25490265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25490265", "title": "Nigel Smart (cryptographer)", "text": "Nigel Smart (cryptographer)\n\nNigel Smart is a professor at COSIC at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven. He is also associated with the Department of Computer Science at the University of Bristol. He is a cryptographer with expertise in the theory of cryptography and its application in practice.\n\nSmart received a BSc degree in mathematics from the University of Reading in 1989. He then obtained his PhD degree from the University of Kent at Canterbury in 1992; his thesis was titled \"The Computer Solutions of Diophantine Equations\".\n\nSmart proceeded to work as a research fellow at the University of Kent, the Erasmus University Rotterdam, and Cardiff University until 1995. From 1995 to 1997, he was a lecturer in mathematics at the University of Kent, and then spent three years in industry at Hewlett-Packard from 1997 to 2000. From 2000 to 2017 he was at the University of Bristol, where he founded the cryptology research group. From 2018 he has been based in the COSIC group at the Katholieke Universiteit Leuven.\n\nSmart held a Royal Society Wolfson Merit Award (2008–2013), and two ERC Advanced Grant (2011–2016 and 2016-2021). He was a director of the International Association for Cryptologic Research (2012–2014), and was elected Vice President for the period 2014-2016. In 2016 he was named as a Fellow of the IACR.\n\nProf. Smart is best known for his work in elliptic curve cryptography, especially work on the ECDLP. He has also worked on pairing-based cryptography contributing a number of algorithms such as the SK-KEM and the Ate-pairing\n\nSmart carries out research on a wide variety of topics in cryptography. He has been instrumental in the effort to make secure multiparty computation practical. A few of his works in this direction include.\nHis work with Gentry and Halevi on performing the first large calculation using Fully Homomomorphic Encryption won the IBM \"Pat Goldberg Best Paper Award\" for 2012.\n\nIn addition to his three years at HP Laboratories, Smart was a founder of the startup Identum specialising in pairing based cryptography and identity based encryption. This was bought by Trend Micro in 2008. In 2013 he formed, with Yehuda Lindell, Unbound Tech (formally called Dyadic Security), a company focusing on deploying distributed cryptographic solutions based on multi-party computations. He is also the co-founder, along with Kenny Paterson, of the Real World Cryptography conference series.\n\n"}
{"id": "56939044", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56939044", "title": "Nung people (Chinese)", "text": "Nung people (Chinese)\n\nIn Vietnam, there was a group of ethnic Chinese called the Chinese Nùng \"(Vietnamese: Hoa Nùng or Tàu Nùng)\". These Chinese Nùng composed 72% to 78%of the population of the Nung Autonomous Territory of Hai Ninh (1947-1954) located in the northeast corner of Vietnam, covering parts of present-day Quảng Ninh and Lạng Sơn provinces. The Chinese Nùng's name originated from the fact that almost all of them were farmers (\"nong nhan\" in Cantonese). After Treaty of Tientsin (1885), the French refused to recognize this group as Chinese due to political and territorial issues on Vietnam's northern frontier border, therefore the French classified them as Nùng based on their main occupation. The most widely used languages of the Chinese Nùng were Ngai, Cantonese, Hakka and San Diu as they descended from people speaking these dialects. After 1954, more than 50,000 Nùng led by Colonel Vong A Sang (or Swong A Sang) fled as refugees, joining the 1 million northern Vietnamese who fled south and resettled in South Vietnam. During the Vietnam War, the Chinese Nung soldiers were best known for their loyalty to US Special Forces and had a reputation as the most-feared fighters of all the minority groups trained by the Americans. After the Fall of Saigon in 1975, many of the Nungs fled Vietnam as Boat People political refugees, many to Hong Kong's and Malaysia's refugee camps. Most were resettled in the US, Canada, France, Australia, Singapore etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "43326727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43326727", "title": "Pablo León de la Barra", "text": "Pablo León de la Barra\n\nPablo León de la Barra (born 1972 in Mexico City) is an independent curator based in London and New York. He is currently a curator at the Solomon R. Guggenheim Museum for the Latin American phase of the Guggenheim UBS MAP Global Art Initiative.\n\nLeón de la Barra received his Ph.D in Histories and Theories from the Architectural Association School of Architecture in London. He has curated or cocurated exhibitions at several international locations including Apexart, The Architecture Foundation, Art in General, the Centre d’Art Contemporain Genève, Centro Cultural de España, the David Roberts Foundation, the Kunsthalle Zürich, the Luis Barragán House and Studio, and the Museo Tamayo.\n\nIn 2012, he was the first recipient of the Colección Patricia Phelps de Cisneros Travel Award for Central America and the Caribbean.\n\n"}
{"id": "41337521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41337521", "title": "Perivaldo Dantas", "text": "Perivaldo Dantas\n\nPerivaldo Lúcio Dantas (12 July 1953 – 27 July 2017), known simply as Perivaldo, was a Brazilian footballer who played as a right back.\n\nBorn in Itabuna, Bahia, Perivaldo started his career with local amateurs Itabuna Esporte Clube. In 1975 he moved straight to the Série A where he would remain until his retirement, starting with Esporte Clube Bahia.\n\nIn his country's top flight Perivaldo also represented Botafogo de Futebol e Regatas, São Paulo FC, Sociedade Esportiva Palmeiras and Bangu Atlético Clube. He scored seven goals for the first in only 13 appearances in the 1982 season, helping it finish in 18th position amongst 44 teams.\n\nPerivaldo earned two caps for Brazil. In the late 80s, after living three years in South Korea, he relocated to Portugal in hopes of finding a new club, but eventual poor choices and several misfortunes ended up with him as a homeless person having to resort to street vending in Lisbon.\n\nPerivaldo returned to his homeland on 11 December 2013 at the age of 60, with the help of the Portuguese Professional Footballers Union. He had been subjected to a three-week follow-up by Portuguese TV channel SIC, and that and posterior footage resulted in the making of a documentary.\n\nPerivaldo died on 27 July 2017 at the age of 64 in Rio de Janeiro, victim of pneumonia.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25650710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25650710", "title": "Robert Hillberg", "text": "Robert Hillberg\n\nRobert Hillberg (August 27, 1917 – August 12, 2012) was a firearm designer and the head of Research & Development at the High Standard Manufacturing Company. His designs included the folding shotgun stock, the Whitney Wolverine, the Wildey .45 gas-operated pistol, and the four-shot COP 357 Derringer. Hillberg developed a variety of insurgency weapons, primarily multiple barrel shotguns, which could be covertly distributed to partisan forces fighting in the United States' national interests.\nGun Digest editors have described Hillberg as a \"national treasure.\"\n\nBorn in Anamosa, Iowa on August 27, 1917, as a boy Robert L. Hillberg accompanied his father, Carl Walter Hillberg, on hunting trips in Minnesota and South Dakota. Although Hillberg did attend the University of Minnesota for several years, he was not formally trained in firearms design. He demonstrated a working prototype .357 Magnum submachine gun of his own design to Colt Firearms located in Hartford, Connecticut in 1938. Colt did not buy the gun, but they did offer Hillberg a job. In 1940 Hillberg accepted employment in the engineering department of Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, in East Hartford, where he designed engine components.\n\nHillberg moved to Burlington, Vermont in 1942 to work as a project engineer for Bell Aircraft's ordinance division. In addition to aircraft projects (including the B-17) Hillberg completed a prototype .30 caliber carbine at Bell, which had been started at Pratt & Whitney. After the war, in 1947, he was placed in charge of Republic Aviation's armament division, in Farmingdale, New York. He worked on adapting weapons designed for use on the ground to aircraft, such as the F-84 Thunderjet as well as F-91 prototypes, with all the challenges inherent in that problem. While at Republic Hillberg designed several automatic pistols, including for the first time in the gun industry solving the problem of having interchangeable barrels for multiple calibers in the same gun.\n\nHillberg left the aircraft industry in 1951, and went to work for High Standard Manufacturing Company in Hamden, Connecticut, as head of research and development. In addition to High Standard pistols, Hillberg worked on new designs for the J. C. Higgins brand of guns for Sears, Roebuck & Company. High Standard manufactured some military weapons. Hillberg designed a tank version of the Browning .30 caliber machine gun for the Springfield Armory and the Detroit Tank Arsenal. This gun was later put into production as the M37 machine gun.\n\nMoving on from High Standard, Hillberg had the opportunity to develop his idea for a futuristic .22LR sporting pistol design when in 1954 he became the co-founder of Whitney Firearms in North Haven, Connecticut, with Howard \"Howie\" Johnson (of the Bellmore Johnson Tool Company in Hamden). Production of the Whitney Wolverine commenced in 1954, but poor marketing lead to the demise of Whitney Firearms in mid-1957. From that time on, until 1980, Hillberg was the Chief Engineer for Bellmore Johnson Tool Company. He also provided firearms consulting and design services from his office in Cheshire, Connecticut. From 1980 to 2012, he was as an independent expert witness in court cases relating to firearms.\n\nIn the late 1980s, Hillberg and Robert Schuets, owner of Olympic Arms Inc., worked together to bring the Whitney Wolverine back to the market. Olympic Arms introduced a polymer-framed version of Hillberg's pistol in 2004, and he received one of the first production models.\n\nAt the time of his death, Hillberg was a retired deputy sheriff and was a member of several police organizations. After a lifetime designing firearms from machine guns to pistols, shotguns and rifles, when asked what was his proudest accomplishment, Hillberg replied “The Whitney pistol.”\n\n\nHillberg holds numerous patents for firearms, including:\n\n"}
{"id": "3946313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3946313", "title": "Robert W. Cobb", "text": "Robert W. Cobb\n\nRobert Watson Cobb is an American lawyer. He worked for the George W. Bush administration before becoming NASA Inspector General.\n\nCobb attended Vanderbilt University, graduating in 1982 \"cum laude\".\n\nHe graduated from George Washington University's National Law Center in 1986 \"cum laude\".\n\nCobb worked for five years as an associate at the law firm of Ober, Kaler, Grimes & Shriver.\n\nCobb worked for almost nine years at the United States Office of Government Ethics before becoming Associate Counsel to the President in the George W. Bush administration. In this position he was responsible for the administration of the White House ethics program (the conflict of interest and financial disclosure clearance for candidates for nomination to Senate-confirmed positions) under the supervision of then-White House Counsel Alberto Gonzales.\n\nPresident George W. Bush appointed Cobb to the position of NASA Inspector General on February 25, 2002. The nomination was sent to Senate February 26, 2002 and was confirmed on April 11, 2002. \n\nCobb served as an \"observer\" to the Columbia Accident Investigation Board, investigating the 2003 Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster.\n\nPresident Barack Obama took office in January, 2009. On April 2, 2009, Mr. Cobb offered his resignation to President Obama, effective April 11, 2009.\n\nMr. Cobb is currently counsel to the Ethics Committee for Montgomery County, Maryland.\n\n"}
{"id": "50770179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50770179", "title": "Roberto de Jesús Escobar Gaviria", "text": "Roberto de Jesús Escobar Gaviria\n\nRoberto de Jesús Escobar Gaviria (born January 13, 1947), nicknamed El Osito (Little Bear), was the brother of the drug kingpin, Pablo Escobar, and the former accountant of the Medellín Cartel, which was responsible for up to 80 percent of the cocaine smuggled into the United States.\n\nFor his part in the operations of the Medellín Cartel, Roberto was imprisoned. He escaped with his brother in July 1992 but surrendered to authorities a year later. On December 18, 1993, while still in prison, he was blinded in one eye by a letter bomb. After more than 10 years, he was released.\n\nIn 2014, he founded Escobar Inc with Olof K. Gustafsson and registered Successor-In-Interest rights for his brother in California, United States. On July 1, 2016, he sent a letter to Netflix regarding the \"Narcos\" TV series demanding $1 billion in payment for unauthorized usage of content.\n\n"}
{"id": "24212258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24212258", "title": "Rose McNamara", "text": "Rose McNamara\n\nRose McNamara (10 September 1885 – 6 March 1957) was an Irish nationalist, republican, and Vice Commandant during the Easter Rising of 1916.\n\nRose Anne McNamara was born to Benjamin McNamara, a van driver, and Johanna Mangan, at 8 Denmark Street, Dublin, on 10 September 1885. Her father died in 1898. Rose was just 15.\n\nMarie Perolz introduced McNamara to Inghinidhe na hÉireann around 1906. Perolz's sister Delia was her sister in law. Delia was married to Matthew McNamara. McNamara joined Sinn Féin and became a member of Cumann na mBan when that formed out of the Inghinidhe na hÉireann. With them she marched in public parades, conducted demonstrations, learned to make field dressings and collected money for ammunition and equipment for the Irish Volunteers.\n\nOn Good Friday 1916, in preparation for the Easter Rising McNamara and others of the Cumann made field dressings. On the Monday her branch from Cumann na mBan were matched in full uniform to Emerald Square where they were given their instructions from Eamonn Ceannt. Rose served as Vice Commandant of the group who served in the Marrowbone Lane garrison, which was based in Jameson's Distillery.\n\nShe spent the Rising with a number of roles, working as quartermaster for the men, acting as a spotter for the snipers and ensuring nursing facilities for the wounded. On Sunday, April 30 they were told of the surrender. McNamara, refused the opportunity to leave as part of the women who were considered less important to the British accepting the surrender and she and the rest of the Cumann na mBan marched between the male Volunteers and were duly arrested and imprisoned.\n\n\"“On the route to Richmond Barracks we were right behind Commandant Thomas McDonagh and Major McBride. When we reached somewhere about Kilmainham, both Major McBride and T. McDonagh said: \"That's right, girls, sing away\" and Major McBride said to me: \"Sing away, girls. You'll be alright. You'll be out tomorrow\", and I replied \"and what about you\" meaning all the men. He said, very sadly, \"Ah no. We won't be out. We'll be shot\".\"\n\nWhile they were in prison in Kilmainham Gaol they could hear the men being executed by firing squad as McBride had predicted.\n\nIn the aftermath the members of the Cumann were disheartened but collected funds for the prisoner's dependents. In 1917 McNamarra was First Lieutenant of her branch. Military drills and training began again. In 1918 the branch, including McNamara were involved in the anti-conscription activities.\n\nDuring the Irish War of Independence McNamara worked with the other women in collecting funds, attending funerals and other parades and in protesting at the gaols where prisoners were on hunger-strike. in 1919 McNamara became Captain of her Cumann na mBan branch. Her role was to ensure nursing cover at first aid stations during planned ambushes. She was notified in advance to make sure the house was ready to receive any wounded men. Commandant Joe O'Connor and Seán Guilfoyle were working with her on these.\n\nIn the Irish Civil War she served under Countess Markievicz. She attended the events at the Four Courts where the Pro and Anti Treaty sides clashed. McNamara was on the Anti-Treaty side. She procured refreshements for the men and carried messages for them. The following day she was given orders to serve at the United Services Club. Fighting continued in the city over night.\n\nRose McNamara died 6 March 1957.\n"}
{"id": "44544991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44544991", "title": "SS Ben Seyr", "text": "SS Ben Seyr\n\nSS \"Ben Seyr\" was a steel-built coastal cargo vessel which was operated out of Ramsey, Isle of Man for the Ramsey Steamship Company; ostensibly to Liverpool, Belfast and Whitehaven. Her name, Ben Seyr, came from the Manx Gaelic term for \"gentlewoman.\" She was lost in a storm in either the northern part of the Celtic Sea, or the southern part of the Irish Sea, in October 1938, going down with the loss of all hands.\n\n\"Ben Seyr\" was constructed by the Manchester Dry Docks Company at Ellesmere Port and was completed in 1920. Length , beam , depth . \"Ben Seyr's\" cargo hold was divided into fore and aft hatches with a combined space of 12,400 cubic feet and which could accommodate 265 tons of cargo. She was driven by a marine compound reciprocating engine with her boiler manufactured by Cammell Laird's. The high-pressure cylinder was 15 inches in diameter, the low-pressure cylinder 32 inches with a 21-inch stroke.\n\"Ben Seyr\" was fitted with a patented steam-powered steering gear designed by Fisher's of Paisley, which could be detached if necessary. She had bunker capacity for 40 tons of coal with her bunkers designed to accommodate 20 tons on the port side and the other 20 tons on the starboard side. She carried 20 tons of water ballast aft and 12 tons forward and had a tank installed which contained 300 gallons of drinking water.\n\nFor a vessel of her size, her engine room was said to be exceptionally large and airy and all accessories were said to be conveniently placed. The quarters of the seamen and firemen were situated forward, underneath the forecastle head. Below the wheel house was the accommodation for the Captain and First mate with the Chief engineer's quarters situated at the after end of the ship. The fittings were made of oak and she was furnished with spring beds.\n\"Ben Seyr\" was fitted with a steam-powered windlass and in addition a steam winch for loading and unloading of cargo.\n\n\"Ben Seyr\" underwent her Sea Trials in early May 1920 during the course of which she covered a measured mile off Formby at a speed of . \"Ben Seyr\" entered service under the command of Captain E. Jones, who prior to this had served on the \"Ben Varrey\". On her maiden voyage she made passage from the Bar Lightship to Maughold Head in a time of 6.5 hours.\nOn joining the Ramsey Steamship Company fleet she was the largest vessel within the fleet and brought the total number to five.\n\n\"Ben Seyr\" conveyed numerous types of cargo, with the mainstays being coal, grain and timber.\n\nWith Captain Corlett in command, the \"Ben Seyr\" was approaching Ramsey Harbour on Friday, February 7, 1936, in challenging conditions. A southeasterly gale had developed making berthing in the port particularly difficult and leading to one of the \"Ben Seyr's\" ropes snapping following which she began to drift onto the Mooragh bank. Capt. Corlett displayed fine seamanship in raging control of the vessel and averting her grounding.\n\nIn August 1937, one of the crew of the \"Ben Seyr\" was drowned in Maryport Harbour following an accident. Able Seaman Charles Kneale was 23 years old and came from Ramsey, Isle of Man.\nHe was in a small boat sculling across the harbour together with another crew member Able Seaman Cecil Barber near to where the \"Ben Seyr\" was docked. In testimony Barber said that as they approached the dock gates Kneale fell into the water and although Barber did all he could to save him, he subsequently drowned. An inquest into Kneale's death was held later that night on board the \"Ben Seyr\" in order to allow the vessel to sail on the night tide.\nThe \"Ben Seyr\" conveyed the body of Able Seaman Kneale back to Ramsey.\n\n\"Ben Seyr\" departed Ramsey on Sunday, 2 October 1938 under Captain Ambrose Crebbin, bound for Cardiff with a cargo of oats. During the course of the passage, she encountered heavy seas and was forced to run towards the Irish Coast in order to seek shelter, with word being received by her owners on the morning of Wednesday 5, that she had arrived off Rosslare, County Wexford. The Station Master at Rosslare reported that the \"Ben Seyr\" had departed at later that day resuming passage to Cardiff, after which nothing more was seen or heard from her. \"Ben Seyr\" was not equipped with a wireless and therefore no information was received regarding her position or the weather which she was encountering.\n\nBy the following Tuesday, 11 October, with still no news of the \"Ben Seyr,\" the following radio appeal was made on the BBC National Programme as well as on Raidió Teilifís Éireann.\n\nWhen Wednesday came with still no news of the \"Ben Seyr\" hope began to fade. It seemed highly improbable that she could still be sheltering, for her crew had with them food for approximately five days and her coal bunkers would have been running out.\n\nOn Thursday 13 October the body of Seaman James Bradford was washed ashore on Middleton Sands, near Heysham Harbour on the Lancashire Coast.\nHis body was found fully clothed and in a standard type life jacket. Within his coat was found a badge of the Isle of Man Branch of the Transport and General Workers' Union to which he belonged.\nHe was formerly identified by his by his father, and an inquest was held into his death at Heysham on Saturday 15 October.\nJames Bradford's body was returned to the Isle of Man on board the steamer \"Mona's Isle. Following his funeral which was reported to have been very well attended, his body was buried at Maughold Churchyard.\n\nA relief fund for the dependents of the crew was set up on 18 October 1938. The fund raised a total of £1,387 (equivalent to £ in )\nadded to which was the sum of £400 (equivalent to £ in ) from the Ramsey Steamship Company. During the years following, payments were made to the dependents at Christmas (£30) with financial aid also being given for medical and educational purposes.\nThe relief fund continued to pay those dependents until 1955, when with the children of the dependents having grown into adulthood it was decided that the Ben Seyr Relief Fund should be wound up. A meeting was called by the Trustees at the Town Hall, Ramsey, on Monday 17 January 1955, for the purpose of passing a resolution for the winding up of the fund and distributing the balance amongst the last five dependents.\n\nHow the \"Ben Seyr\" met her fate is a matter of conjecture. Having been seen at Rosslare, it may be presumed that having sailed for Cardiff on Wednesday afternoon she soon encountered heavy seas. Her cargo of loose oats may have ran forward in the hold, the weight putting her nose under the water, in which case she could have sunk in a matter of minutes. Conversely, she may have attempted to turn back and run for the shelter of the Irish Coast during the course of which she was swamped by the heavy seas - again her sinking would have followed quickly.\n\nThe fact that the body of Seaman James Bradford was washed ashore on the northern part of the Lancashire Coast, could also support a theory that after leaving Rosslare the \"Ben Seyr\" \"ran before the storm\" in an attempt to return to the Isle of Man. Local nautical theory at the time suggested this as a possibility, with the \"Ben Seyr\" subsequently foundering to the south of the Isle of Man. Also with the fact that Bradford's body was found in a life jacket, it could suggest that the crew abandoned ship, however no other crew members bodies were found.\n\nSeveral days after she had left Rosslare rumours began to circulate that one of the \"Ben Seyr's\" lifeboats had been recovered on the Irish Coast. However, it turned out to be a lifeboat belonging to the \"SS Donaghmnore\" of Belfast, which had gone to the rescue of the \"SS Marjorie\" which was lost in the same storm off St. John's Point, Ireland. Wreckage of the \"Marjorie\" was also washed up on the western coast of the Isle of Man.\n\nIn August 1939, it was announced by the Board of Trade that after careful consideration of all the facts surrounding the loss of the \"Ben Seyr\" that it had been decided that there were no public grounds for the carrying out of a formal investigation into the case.\n\nA Memorial Service was held at St. Paul's Church Ramsey on Saturday 15 October 1938, conducted by the Rev. M. W. Harrison, vicar of St. Paul's and assisted by the Rev. E.C. Paton who read the lesson.\n\nIn early March 1939, a message in a bottle was washed up on the shore at Silecroft, southern Cumberland on which was written:\n\nThe message was regarded with some reserve. There was only one set of hatches on the \"Ben Seyr\" and if the word \"Maughull\" was supposed to mean Maughold, then it is highly unlikely that it would have been mis-spelt by any member of the crew in the manner indicated. Also the position indicated in the message would have put the vessel somewhere between Langness and the Chicken Rock.\n"}
{"id": "1339436", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1339436", "title": "Scott Walker (politician)", "text": "Scott Walker (politician)\n\nScott Kevin Walker (born November 2, 1967) is an American politician serving as the 45th and current governor of Wisconsin since 2011. A Republican, he was first elected governor in 2010, then won in an attempted recall election in 2012, and was elected a third time in 2014, before being defeated in 2018. He formerly served as Milwaukee County Executive and in the Wisconsin State Assembly.\n\nBorn in Colorado Springs, Colorado, Walker was raised in Iowa and in Delavan, Wisconsin, before attending Marquette University. He left Marquette before graduating, taking a full-time job with the American Red Cross. Walker was elected to the Wisconsin State Assembly in 1992, representing a district in western Milwaukee County. In 2002, Walker was elected County Executive in a special election following the resignation of F. Thomas Ament; he was elected for a full term in 2004 and was re-elected in 2008.\n\nWalker campaigned for Governor of Wisconsin in 2006 and ran again in 2010. Shortly after his inauguration in 2011, Walker introduced a budget plan which limited the collective bargaining of most Wisconsin public employees. The response to Walker's policies included protests at the Wisconsin State Capitol and an effort to recall Walker. In the 2012 recall election, Walker again defeated Barrett, becoming the first governor in the United States to survive a recall effort.\n\nIn 2014, Walker defeated his Democratic challenger, businesswoman and Madison School Board member Mary Burke. Walker was briefly a candidate for his party's presidential nomination in the 2016 election. Walker sought a third term as governor in 2018 but was defeated by Democratic challenger Tony Evers.\n\nWalker was born on November 2, 1967, in Colorado Springs, Colorado, the elder of two sons of Patricia Ann \"Pat\" (née Fitch; born December 30, 1938), a bookkeeper, and Llewellyn Scott \"Llew\" Walker (May 19, 1939 – October 7, 2018), a Baptist minister.\n\nThe family moved to Plainfield, Iowa, in 1970, where Llew worked as pastor in the local Baptist Church, TBC, and served on the municipal council. When Walker was ten years old, the family moved to Delavan, Wisconsin, where his father continued to work as a minister, at the First Baptist Church of Delavan. In 1985, when Walker was in high school, he attended and represented Wisconsin at two weeks of American Legion-sponsored training in leadership and government at Badger Boys State in Wisconsin and the selective Boys Nation in Washington, D.C. While at the event, he met U.S. president Ronald Reagan and had a photo taken with him. Walker has credited the experience with solidifying his interest in public service and giving him the \"political bug\". He attained the highest rank, Eagle Scout, in the Boy Scouts of America, and graduated from Delavan-Darien High School in 1986.\n\nIn 1986, Walker worked as a volunteer for Tommy Thompson's gubernatorial campaign, and in the fall of that year, enrolled at Marquette University. Within a few weeks of beginning studies, Walker became a student senator and a few weeks later led a probe involving student government leaders misusing funds during homecoming. Walker's committee recommended impeachment of those being investigated, leading many to resign, and earning Walker enemies, a number of whom, according to Politifact, \"continue to taunt him today\".\n\nIn 1988, he ran for student government president, touting a 19-point resume. On election day, a record number of students voted and Walker lost 927 to 1,245, following an alleged infringement of campaign guidelines; an election commission later found Walker guilty of beginning his campaign one week before he was allowed. His opponent was impeached shortly after taking office but Walker did not apply for the position. While at Marquette, Walker led the pro-life Students for Life group at the university.\n\nIn spring 1990, Walker discontinued his studies at Marquette, earning 94 of the 128 minimum credits needed to graduate. He left in good standing with a 2.59/4.0 grade point average but without obtaining a degree. Walker has said he dropped out of college when he received an offer for a full-time job with the American Red Cross; he had worked part-time in college for IBM selling warranties on mainframe computers, which led to the American Red Cross position.\n\nIn 1990, at age 22, Walker ran for Milwaukee's 7th District seat in the Wisconsin State Assembly. He won the Republican nomination, but lost in the general election to incumbent Democrat Gwen Moore, receiving less than one-third of the vote. In 1993, Walker moved to Wauwatosa, a suburb of Milwaukee, and ran in a special election in the more conservative 14th legislative district, based around Wauwatosa. He defeated Democrat Chris Ament, son of then-Milwaukee County Executive Tom Ament.\n\nDuring the campaign, Walker backed welfare reform and opposed the expansion of mass transit. He supported a cap on state spending and said that the law on resolving labor disputes with local government employees needed to be reformed. Walker received the endorsements of Wisconsin Right to Life and \"The Milwaukee Sentinel\", which called him a fiscal conservative and noted his pro-life, tough-on-crime, and pro-welfare reform positions. He was re-elected four times, serving until 2002 when he became a county executive.\n\nWhile in the state assembly, he was interested in criminal justice matters and chaired the Committees on Correctional Facilities, and Corrections and the Courts. Over the years, he served on a number of other committees, including Health, Census and Redistricting, Financial Institutions, and Housing. As a freshman legislator in 1993, he co-sponsored right-to-work legislation. In 1999 he took the lead in a truth-in-sentencing bill that increased prison time for some crimes, eliminated parole for others, and subsequently contributed to prison overcrowding. Walker was a member of the American Legislative Exchange Council (ALEC) at the time, and credited the organization for much of the success of the legislation.\n\nIn 2001, he was the lead sponsor of a bill to prevent pharmacists from being disciplined for refusing to fill prescriptions for emergency contraception and was a strong supporter of a bill to require voters to show photo ID at the polls. According to research by two political analysts, Walker was more conservative than about 90% of his peers in the assembly and about 80% of the Republicans in the assembly.\n\nWalker had a strong pro-life record in the state assembly. With the exception of some bills while Walker was running for Milwaukee County Executive, Walker either sponsored or cosponsored all but three bills that would have restricted abortions.\n\nIn 2001–02, Walker and fellow state assembly member Michael Huebsch objected to the hiring of a state employee, Rev. Jamyi Witch, on the basis of her religious beliefs as a Wiccan. Walker claimed that Witch's hiring as a prison chaplain raised \"both personal and political concerns\" because she \"practice[d] a religion that actually offends people of many other faiths\". Walker and Huebsch were ultimately unsuccessful in terminating Witch's chaplaincy or employment.\n\nWalker became Milwaukee County Executive in a special election run in April 2002, after the former County Executive, Tom Ament, resigned in the wake of a county pension fund scandal. Walker was elected to a four-year term in 2004, winning 57% of the vote to defeat former state budget director, David Riemer. Although in a liberal county and running for a nonpartisan position, Walker ran openly as a conservative Republican. He won another four-year term in 2008, defeating State Senator Lena Taylor with 59% of the vote. Upon first being elected, Walker became the youngest person and the first Republican ever elected to the position and remains the only Republican to hold this office to date.\n\nWalker won the office on a platform of fiscal conservatism, promising to give back part of his own salary. He said that his voluntary give-back gave him moral authority to make cuts in the budget. He returned $60,000 per year (slightly less than half of his salary) during his first term, and reduced his give-back to $10,000 per year during his second term.\n\nDuring his eight years in office, there were disputes with the county board \"over taxes, privatization of public services, quality of parks and public buildings, and delivery of social services\", according to the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\". The County Board approved several budgets over Walker's veto and he never submitted a budget with a higher property tax than the board had approved the prior year. During Walker's tenure the number of county employees was reduced by over 20% and the $3.5 million county deficit was turned into a surplus. In addition, he cut over $44 million in proposed spending through his veto powers and helped eliminate the waiting list for long-term care for senior citizens.\n\nWalker appointed Kevin Kavanaugh, treasurer of the local chapter of the Military Order of the Purple Heart, as a member of the County Veterans Service Commission. Walker raised funds annually for veterans at the Operation Freedom Benefit, with proceeds to the Military Order of the Purple Heart. Walker's Chief of Staff, Thomas Nardelli, indicated that he went to Walker with concerns about missing money in 2009, and Walker directed him to report it to the district attorney's office. The district attorney did not immediately act but later launched a \"John Doe\" investigation. Kavanaugh and four others were arrested for theft of funds. Kavanaugh was convicted and sentenced to 21 months in prison.\n\nTim Russell, employed by Walker in a number of posts, was implicated in the same investigation; he was charged in January 2012 and pleaded guilty in November 2012 to diverting more than $21,000 to his personal bank account. In 2010, Walker's last year as Milwaukee County executive, Russell was his deputy chief of staff and Milwaukee Housing Director. Walker was not charged with any wrongdoing.\n\nWhile county executive, Walker became a candidate, in February 2005, in the 2006 race for Wisconsin governor. He dropped out on March 24, 2006, after about 14 months of campaigning, citing fundraising difficulties. Walker threw his support to fellow Republican Mark Andrew Green, who won the Republican primary unopposed, and Walker actively campaigned for him during the general election. Green lost the general election, in November 2006, to the incumbent Democrat, Jim Doyle. Despite Green's loss, Walker's strong support for him helped increase Walker's favorability with the state GOP and positioned him as the frontrunner for the 2010 election.\n\nWalker became an early favorite for the 2010 Republican Party endorsement for Wisconsin governor, winning straw polls of Wisconsin GOP convention attendees in 2007 and 2008. He announced his candidacy in late April 2009 after several months of previewing his campaign themes of reduced taxes and reduced spending to Republican audiences around the state. He criticized the 2009–11 Wisconsin state budget as too big given the slow economy. In 2009 and 2010, Americans for Prosperity helped raise Walker's statewide profile, inviting him to address its events and rallies throughout the state. Walker won the Wisconsin GOP convention endorsement on May 22, 2010, receiving 91% of the votes cast by delegates. He won the Republican nomination in the primary election of September 14, 2010, receiving 59% of the popular vote, while former U.S. Representative Mark Neumann garnered 39%.\nAs part of his campaign platform, Walker said he would create 250,000 jobs in his first term through a program that would include tax cuts for small businesses, capital gains tax cuts, and income tax cuts. He proposed cutting state employee wages and benefits to help pay for these tax cuts. Critics argued that his proposals would help only the wealthy and that cutting the salaries of public employees would adversely affect state services, while supporters argued that tax cuts for businesses would spur the economy and create jobs.\n\nWalker indicated he would refuse an $810 million award from the federal Department of Transportation to build a high speed railroad line from Madison to Milwaukee as he believed it would cost the state $7.5 million per year to operate and would not prove profitable. This was in spite of offers by the mayor of Madison and the Dane County executive to help absorb costs the state might have incurred. The award was later rescinded and split among other states. This cost the state at least $60 million for rail repairs federal funds would have covered.\n\nSocial issues played a part in the campaign. Walker has stated that he is \"100% pro-life\" and that he believes life should be protected from conception to natural death. He opposes abortion, including in cases of rape and incest. He supports abstinence-only sex education in the public schools and opposes state supported clinical services that provide birth control and testing and treatment of sexually transmitted diseases to teens under age 18 without parental consent. He supports the right of pharmacists to refuse to fill prescriptions for contraceptives on religious or moral grounds. He supports adult stem cell research but opposes human embryonic stem cell research.\n\nAs an opponent of same-sex marriage, he opposed a law that allowed gay couples to register with counties to get certain benefits, such as hospital visitation rights. He later stated that his position on same-sex marriage was no longer relevant because Wisconsin's ban on same-sex marriage had been overturned by a federal court. Walker said he would sign an Arizona-style immigration bill, which would allow local police to stop suspected illegal immigrants, if he were elected.\n\nOn November 2, 2010, his 43rd birthday, Walker won the general election with 52% of total votes cast, while Democrat Tom Barrett received 46%. His running mate, now Lieutenant Governor, was Rebecca Kleefisch, a former Milwaukee television news reporter. Walker's victory came amid a series of Wisconsin GOP victories, with conservative Republican Ron Johnson winning the contested U.S. Senate seat, and with the GOP gaining majorities in the state's U.S. House delegation, State Assembly, and State Senate.\n\nAfter the contentious collective bargaining dispute, Walker's disapproval ratings varied between 50% and 51% while his approval ratings varied between 47% and 49% in 2011. The effort to recall Walker officially began on November 15, 2011.\n\nWalker reportedly raised more than $30 million during the recall effort, with a significant portion from out of state. Commentators claimed the amount of money raised was \"illustrating the national significance both political parties saw in the recall fight\". In March 2012, the Wisconsin Government Accountability Board announced there were more than 900,000 valid signatures to force a recall vote, well above the required minimum of 540,208.\n\nIn February 2012, Walker's campaign requested additional time for the petition signatures to be verified, claiming about 20% of the signatures were not valid. Democrats argued that even if 20% of the signatures were disregarded they still had obtained 180,000 more signatures than required to initiate the recall. Wisconsin Democratic Party Communications Director Graeme Zielinski claimed Walker was \"delaying the inevitable\". On February 17, 2012, Dane County Judge Richard Niess, who had signed the recall petition, denied Walker's request for additional time. On March 30, 2012, the Government Accountability Board unanimously ruled in favor of the recall election. The recall elections for both Walker and Kleefisch took place on June 5, 2012.\n\nDuring the Republican primary election for the recall, Walker received 626,538 votes. In the Democratic primary, all of the Democratic candidates combined received 670,288, with the winner, Tom Barrett, receiving 390,109, a majority. On June 5, 2012, Walker won the recall election. This was only the third gubernatorial recall election in U.S. history and the first and only one to date which failed to unseat the incumbent governor. Walker won the recall, his second face-off with Barrett, by a slightly larger margin (53% to 46%) than in the 2010 election (52% to 46%) and became the first U.S. governor to win a recall election.\n\nBy the end of the recall election, Walker had a national network of conservative donors and groups supporting him. Nearly 300,000 people donated to his recall campaign, which garnered roughly $37 million. Two-thirds of the contributions came from outside Wisconsin. Walker, or the conservative causes he supports, are also supported by conservative donors and groups including Michael W. Grebe, Diane Hendricks, and the Bradley Foundation, founder of the Wisconsin Policy Research Institute and the MacIver Institute; and David H. Koch and Charles Koch, initial funders of Americans for Prosperity.\n\nIn his third election in four years, Walker faced Democrat Mary Burke to determine the governor of Wisconsin. Wisconsin labor unions, who helped organize the 2012 Wisconsin recall election, donated funds to boost Burke's campaign. Walker received help from a number of conservative donors. The polling through most of the race was close and no candidate was a definitive favorite. The gubernatorial election took place on November 4, 2014 and Walker won re-election by 6 percent of the vote.\n\nThe Wisconsin Republican Party made large gains in the 2016 election. Businessman and Republican presidential nominee Donald Trump won Wisconsin, becoming the first Republican to win the state since 1984. Additionally, the state GOP had a strong showing in the State Legislature, building their largest majorities since 1957, and Republican Senator Ron Johnson defeated Democrat Russ Feingold a second time for a second term. This put Walker and the Wisconsin GOP in a strong position.\n\nWalker took the oath of office to become the 45th Governor of Wisconsin on January 3, 2011.\nBy January 25, 2011, the state legislature passed a series of Walker-backed bills, the largest of which would cut taxes for businesses at \"a two-year cost of $67 million\", according to the \"Associated Press\".\n\nWalker became a figure of national recognition and controversy after he proposed the \"Wisconsin budget repair bill\" in 2011. The bill, which would eventually be passed by the Wisconsin Legislature, significantly changed the collective bargaining process for most public employees in Wisconsin. Opponents of Walker's actions launched a push for a recall election and received enough support to force an election on June 5, 2012, the first time a Governor of Wisconsin had ever faced recall.\n\nDuring Walker's first term as governor, the state's $3.6 billion budget deficit was turned into a surplus and taxes were cut by $2 billion. More than 100,000 jobs were created in the state of Wisconsin. Overall, Wisconsin performed above the national average. However it has yet to regain all the jobs lost during and after the Great Recession of 2007–2009.\n\nWalker proposed the Wisconsin Budget Repair Bill on February 11, 2011, estimated to save Wisconsin $30 million in the current fiscal year and $300 million over the next two years. The bill requires additional contributions by state and local government workers to their health care plans and pensions, amounting to roughly an 8% decrease in the average government worker's take home pay. The bill eliminated, for most state workers, other than certain public safety workers, many collective bargaining rights aside from seeking pay increases, and then not above the rate of inflation, unless approved by a voter referendum. Under the bill, unions have to win yearly votes to continue representing government workers and could no longer have dues automatically deducted from government workers' paychecks. Certain law enforcement personnel and firefighters are exempt from the bargaining changes.\n\nOn January 18, 2011, days after Walker's inauguration, Beloit businesswoman and Walker supporter Diane Hendricks asked him, \"Any chance we'll ever get to be a completely red state and work on these unions and become a right-to-work (state)?\", and he replied:\nWell, we're going to start in a couple weeks with our budget adjustment bill. The first step is, we're going to deal with collective bargaining for all public employee unions, because you use divide and conquer. So for us the base we've got for that is the fact that we've got – budgetarily we can't afford not to. If we have collective bargaining agreements in place, there's no way not only the state but local governments can balance things out. So you think city of Beloit, city of Janesville, any of the school districts, that opens the door once we do that. That's your bigger problem right there.\n\nAfter video tape of the interaction was released in May 2012, Walker's opponents said Walker had revealed his intention to target private sector unions and pursue right-to-work legislation. Walker said he was not pursuing right-to-work legislation and that in his 2011 comment to Hendricks he was referring to his responsibility as governor to defend taxpayers from unions that he believed were frustrating resolution of the state's budget deficit.\n\nIn announcing the proposed legislation, Walker said the Wisconsin National Guard and other state agencies were prepared to prevent disruptions in state services. He later explained that police and firefighters were excluded from the changes because he would not jeopardize public safety. Walker stated that the bill was necessary to avoid laying off thousands of state employees and that no one should be surprised by its provisions. Union leaders and Democratic legislators immediately criticized the bill, claiming Walker had never campaigned on doing away with collective bargaining rights. In a media interview a week later, Walker said he was not trying to break the public sector unions, noting that Wisconsin government employees would retain the protections of civil service laws. He said that asking employees to pay half the national average for health care benefits was a modest request.\n\nDemonstrators began protesting the proposed bill on February 14, 2011. During the sixth day of the protests, leaders of the two largest unions said publicly they were prepared to accept the financial concessions in the bill, but would not agree to the limitations of collective bargaining rights. All 14 of the Democratic state senators left the state to Illinois on February 17, preventing the passage of the bill by the mostly Republican legislature in the absence of the quorum necessary for a vote. The missing legislators said they would not return to Madison unless Walker agreed to remove the limitations on collective bargaining from the bill. Walker warned that if the budget repair bill was not passed by March 1, refinancing of a $165 million state debt would fail, and more cuts would be needed to balance the budget.\n\nAppearing on \"Meet the Press\" on February 27, Walker stated that he did not believe the unions were negotiating in good faith in offering pension and health-care concessions because local unions had recently pushed through contracts with school boards and city councils that did not include contributions to the pensions and health care and that, in one case, a contract even included a pay increase. On February 28, the largest public union filed an unfair labor practices complaint with the state labor relations board, claiming that Walker had a duty to negotiate, but had refused.\n\nOn March 8, private emails dating back to February 28 were released. These emails showed that Governor Walker had tried to negotiate with Democratic legislators, even proposing to allow some collective bargaining rights. However, after failing to reach a compromise with Democratic legislators, the Republican Senate legislators removed certain fiscal provisions from the bill, allowing it to be passed by a simple senate majority.\n\nOn March 18, Judge Maryann Sumi issued a court order to prohibit publication of the bill by the Secretary of State while legal challenges to it were being considered. On March 26, the Legislative Reference Bureau (LRB) published the bill. Republicans contended the court order did not mention the LRB, which is (also) responsible for publishing laws, and that the publication made the bill law. Democrats maintained the bill could not become law until the Secretary of State took action, and the entire law was published in the state newspaper of record, the \"Wisconsin State Journal\". Sumi subsequently clarified that, pursuant to her order, the bill could not be considered to be published, pending completion of court review.\n\nOn May 26, Judge Sumi struck down the budget repair bill, finding that its passage was in violation of state open meetings laws. The Wisconsin Supreme Court overturned Sumi's ruling on June 14.\n\nWalker claimed the measures would \"save jobs, protect taxpayers, reform government and help balance the budget.\" He added, \"You see, despite a lot of the rhetoric we've heard over the past 11 days the bill I put forward isn't aimed at state workers, and it certainly isn't a battle with unions. If it was, we would have eliminated collective bargaining entirely or we would have gone after the private-sector unions.\" As part of the cost savings resulting from the changes to collective bargaining, Walker points to significant reductions in the premiums for health insurance for many school districts. Prior to the deficit reduction bill, WEA Trust, which is affiliated with Wisconsin's largest teachers union, dominated the market for health insurance for the state's school districts. The changes to collective bargaining made it easier for school districts to change health insurance providers and negotiate better premiums. Walker claims that Wisconsin school districts have saved an estimated $30 million as a result of the change.\n\nIn August 2012, the first investigation, which had been launched by John Chisholm, Milwaukee County District Attorney, a Democrat, into missing funds, was rolled into a second John Doe probe based on a theory that Governor Walker's campaign had illegally coordinated with conservative groups engaged in issue advocacy during the recall elections.\n\nThe initial John Doe judge, retired Kenosha County Circuit Judge Barbara A. Kluka, overseeing the John Doe investigation issued 30 subpoenas and 5 search warrants. She also issued a secrecy order which meant those being investigated were legally bound from discussing any facet of the investigation publicly. On October 29, 2013, she recused herself from the investigation without explanation. Kluka's replacement, Judge Gregory Peterson, quashed several subpoenas in January 2014, saying \"there was no probable cause shown that they violated campaign finance laws\".\n\nOn July 16, 2015, the Wisconsin Supreme Court ruled 4–2 that Walker did not illegally collaborate with conservative groups during the recall campaigns. Writing for the majority in the case, Justice Michael Gableman stated: \"To be clear, this conclusion ends the John Doe investigation because the special prosecutor's legal theory is unsupported in either reason or law,\" he said, \"Consequently, the investigation is closed.\" In March 2017, a federal judge dismissed a lawsuit filed against the investigators of the case.\n\nWisconsin faced an anticipated deficit of approximately $3.6 billion in the 2012–13 budget cycle which must be balanced according to state law. Walker's proposed budget cut $834 million in state aid for K-12 education, which would be a 7.9% reduction from the prior budget. He proposed a 5.5% decrease in the maximum amount of funding school districts can receive from state aid and property taxes, which would limit how much property taxes could be increased to compensate for the reduction in state aid. The budget lowered state capital gains taxes for investments in Wisconsin businesses. It increased spending on health care by $1.3 billion to cover increased costs for Medicaid, and increased transportation funding by $410.5 million.\n\nWalker's proposed budget for fiscal 2013–2015 froze spending on public schools and tightened the income requirements for Medicaid recipients. It proposed an increase in funding for fighting domestic violence, mental health care, higher education, and job training. It also included a $343 million cut in income taxes and an expansion of the state's school voucher program.\n\nWalker's proposed budget for fiscal 2015–2017 included a $300 million cut to the University of Wisconsin System, while holding funding flat for K-12 public schools and continuing to expand the school voucher program. It included a plan to borrow $1.3 billion to fund improvements to roads and infrastructure, and proposed drug testing for recipients of public benefits like Medicaid and food stamps.\n\nOn May 13, 2011, the Walker administration petitioned the Dane County Circuit Court for permission to withdraw the state as a defendant from \"Appling v. Doyle\", which was a challenge to the state's domestic partner registry.\n\nOn May 23, 2011, Walker signed legislation changing the process of creating administrative rules for the state. This measure, which became 2011 Wisconsin Act 21 (and became effective June 8, 2011), changes State agency authority to promulgate rules, provides for gubernatorial approval of proposed rules, revised the requirement of an economic impact analysis for proposed rules and changes venue in the process of judicial review of agency rules.\n\nOn May 25, 2011, Walker signed a voter ID law that required voters to show a government-issued ID before casting a ballot.\n\nThe ACLU filed a lawsuit in federal court to invalidate the law on December 13, 2011, claiming the law violates the constitutional guarantee of equal protection under the law. On April 29, 2014, U.S. District Judge Lynn Adelman struck down the law, saying it violated the Voting Rights Act and U.S. Constitution.\n\nThe Wisconsin Supreme Court upheld the constitutionality of the voter ID law under the Constitution of Wisconsin in two other cases in July 2014. On September 12, the 7th Circuit Court of Appeals allowed the law to be put into effect just 54 days before the 2014 elections, overturning a previous ruling in federal court.\n\nOn October 9, 2014, the state was again barred from implementing the voter ID law for 2014 by the U.S. Supreme Court. On March 23, 2015, the Supreme Court denied writ of certiorari, thus ruling in favor of the state of Wisconsin's new stricter voter ID law.\n\nIn January 2012, Walker returned a $37.6 million federal grant meant to set up a health exchange in Wisconsin for the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act. Walker said \"Stopping the encroachment of Obamacare in our state, which has the potential to have a devastating impact on Wisconsin's economy, is a top priority.\" Walker rejected an $11 million federal grant designed to improve Medicaid enrollment systems. It can take up to 3 months to determine whether an applicant qualifies for the program. If the applicant does not qualify, the state must pay the medical costs for the first three months. The Walker administration previously said it wants to end the practice of presuming some applicants are eligible and go to a real-time system for determining eligibility. Walker rejected an expansion of Medicaid coverage for the state, but instead reduced the eligibility requirements for the state's BadgerCare program.\n\nOn April 2, 2012, Walker signed a law to fund evaluation of the reading skills of kindergartners as part of an initiative to ensure that students are reading at or above grade level by 3rd grade. The law also created a system for evaluating teachers and principals based in part on the performance of their students. It specified that student performance metrics must be based on objective measures, including their performance on standardized tests.\n\nWalker approved a two-year freeze of tuition at the University of Wisconsin System in the 2013 budget. In 2014, he proposed a two-year extension of the freeze based on expected cash balances for the system in excess of $1 billion.\n\nOn February 3, 2015, Walker delivered a budget proposal to the Wisconsin Legislature, in which he recommended placing the University of Wisconsin system under the direction of a \"private authority\", governed by the Board of Regents (all the governor's appointees). The budget proposal called for a 13% reduction in state funding for the university system.\n\nThe budget proposal also called for re-writing the Wisconsin Idea, replacing the university's fundamental commitment to the \"search for truth\" with the goal of workforce readiness. Walker faced broad criticism for the changes and at first blamed the rewriting of the Wisconsin Idea on a \"drafting error.\" Politifact and the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" later reported that Walker's administration had insisted to University of Wisconsin officials on scrapping the Wisconsin Idea, the guiding principle for the state's universities for more than a century. Walker then acknowledged that UW System officials had raised objections about the proposal and had been told the changes were not open to debate.\n\nSection 20(b)(1)(A) of the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act (IGRA) gives governors unrestricted authority to approve or veto any off-reservation tribal casino located in their state.\n\nWalker has said he will only approve new off-reservation casino projects if they are supported by every tribe in the state. This has been referred to as the \"Walker Rule\". In January 2015, Walker rejected a proposed casino in Kenosha, Wisconsin.\n\nWalker signed the 2011 state budget that de-funded Planned Parenthood. In 2013, Walker signed a bill that requires women seeking abortions to undergo an ultrasound and doctors to show the women the image of the fetus.\n\nIn 2013, Walker signed a bill requiring abortion providers in Wisconsin to have admitting privileges at a hospital within 30 miles. The law was found unconstitutional by the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals in 2015. The court found the medical justifications for such restrictions \"nonexistent\" and said they \"cannot be taken seriously as a measure to improve women's health.\" In June 2016, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled on \"Whole Woman's Health v. Hellerstedt\", and struck down admitting privileges and other similar restrictions, finding that they were an unconstitutional \"undue burden\" on women. The day after delivering this decision, the Court refused to hear the Walker administration's appeal of the Seventh Circuit decision, leaving its finding of unconstitutionality in place. Walker blamed an \"activist court\" for finding his law unconstitutional.\n\nOn July 20, 2015, Walker signed a bill into law that banned all abortions after the 20th week of pregnancy, \"except when the life of the mother is in immediate danger.\"\n\nIn 2012, regarding right-to-work legislation, Walker told reporters at the state Republican Party convention that \"It's not going to get to my desk ... I'm going to do everything in my power to make sure it isn't there because my focal point (is) private sector unions have overwhelmingly come to the table to be my partner in economic development.\" While campaigning for re-election in 2014, Walker again said he had no plans to pursue right-to-work legislation focused on private unions.\n\nOnce the legislation was initiated in the state legislature, Walker stated: \"I haven't changed my position on it, it just wasn't a priority for me. But should they pass it within the next two weeks, which is their target, I plan on signing it.\" On March 9, 2015, Walker signed legislation making Wisconsin a right-to-work state. The law applied to private employee unions as well as public. Once signed, Walker claimed partial credit for the right-to-work law. Politifact.com rated Walker's position on right-to-work as a \"major reversal of position.\"\n\nThree trade unions, including the AFL-CIO, subsequently sued to get the law overturned as unconstitutional. In March 2015, the court declined the unions' request to put the law on hold until the lawsuit is settled. Following a protracted legal battle, in 2017 the U.S. appeals court in Chicago upheld Wisconsin’s right-to-work law ending the substantive legal challenges to the law.\n\nIn 2011, the WEDC was created by Walker as a quasi-public entity to replace the state's Department of Commerce with the objective of incenting job creation in Wisconsin. A 2013 report from the state's Legislative Audit Committee indicated that the organization gave some \"grants, loans, and tax credits to ineligible recipients, for ineligible projects, and for amounts that exceeded specified limits.\" It also reported that WEDC \"did not consistently perform statutorily required program oversight duties such as monitoring the contractually specified performance of award recipients\". According to Wisconsin Public Radio, \"The agency has been plagued by mismanagement and questions about handing out loans without properly vetting recipients.\"\n\nIn June 2015, it was reported that under Walker, WEDC gave out $124 million between the years 2011 and 2013 without formal review. Based on the 27 awards during that period, 2,100 jobs had been created to date out of a total expected of 6,100. $62.5 million was awarded to Kohl's to create 3,000 jobs as part of a headquarters expansion but only 473 had been created, $18 million was awarded to Kestrel Aircraft which was supposed to create 665 jobs but only created 24, and $15 million went to Plexus Corp. to create 350 jobs, but created zero. In July 2013, WEDC adopted a new policy requiring written reviews on all program awards. According to WEDC, it had approved more than 760 reviewed awards under the new policy by June 2015.\n\nWalker introduced a state budget in February 2015 which removed all of the elected officials from the board. This included removing himself from chairmanship of WEDC. This was revised by the Legislature's budget committee who altered it to only remove Walker. Walker signed the budget in July 2015.\n\nWalker approved an agreement with the Taiwanese manufacturer Foxconn to set up a plant in Racine County. As part of the agreement, Foxconn was set to receive subsidies ranging from $3 billion to $4.8 billion (paid in increments if Foxconn met certain targets), which would be by far the largest subsidy ever given to a foreign firm in U.S. history. Foxconn said in return that it would set up a $10 billion factory that initially employed 3,000 (set to increase to 13,000). Numerous economists expressed skepticism that the benefits would exceed the costs of the deal. The nonpartisan Wisconsin’s Legislative Fiscal Bureau estimated that the Foxconn plant would not break even on the investment until 2043, and that was in the best-case scenario. Others noted that Foxconn had in the past made similar claims about job creation in various localities which did not turn out to be true.\n\nFoxconn sought to locate a plant in the Great Lakes region, because it need access to large amounts of water. The other Great Lakes states were not willing to offer as generous subsidies as Wisconsin. \n\nInitially, the subsidies were set at $3 billion, which would have cost the state $231,000 per job created (under the assumption of 13,000 jobs). The cost of the subsidies were higher than yearly state funding for the University of Wisconsin system and the state prisons. Other estimates of the subsidies go as high as $4.8 billion, which meant that the cost of the subsidy per job (assuming 13,000 jobs) was more than $346,000. Depending on how many jobs are created, the cost per job may go as high as more than a million dollars.\n\nWalker exempted the firm from Wisconsin's environmental rules regarding wetlands and streams. Walker and the Trump administration rolled back air pollution limits in the area of the plant, overruling objections of Environmental Protection Agency staff. The plant was estimated to contribute significantly to air pollution in the region. Environmentalists criticized the decision to allow Foxconn to draw 7 million gallons of water per day from Lake Michigan. The roughly four square miles of land necessary for the Foxconn campus was in part made possible by forcing homeowners to sell at a fixed prize under the threat of seizing the land under eminent domain.\n\nIn 2018, the Walker administration shifted up to $90 million in local road funding to road work related to the Foxconn factory. The Wisconsin state legislature granted Foxconn special legal privileges within the Wisconsin judicial system.\n\nIn late January 2015, Walker set up a 527 organization called \"Our American Revival\" to \"help spread his message and underwrite his activities\" which \"The Washington Post\" described as helpful for building the political and fundraising networks for a run for the presidency.\n\nIn February 2015, Trip Gabriel of \"The New York Times\" described him as having \"quickly vaulted into the top tier of likely candidates in the Republican presidential race\". On April 20, at a fundraising event for the New York State Republican Party, David Koch told donors that he and his brother, who oversee one of the biggest private political organizations in the country, believed that Walker would be the Republican nominee.\n\nFollowing a controversial statement by Rudy Giuliani, Walker declined to answer the question of whether he believes President Obama loves America or was a true Christian, stating that he did not know President Obama's patriotism was in doubt.\n\nIn June 2015, Walker took a further step towards a presidential campaign when he established a \"testing-the-waters\" federal campaign committee. This allowed him to raise federal campaign dollars as he explored a possible presidential run.\n\nIn July 2015, after Walker aides said that he would soon announce his candidacy, Walker announced his candidacy via social media.\n\nAs of August 18, 2015, Crowdpac ranked Walker as the fourth-most conservative candidate (following Rand Paul, Ted Cruz and Ben Carson) for the 2016 presidential election based on an analysis of campaign donors. Based on an analysis including Crowdpac's rating, public statements by candidates on issues, and congressional voting (not applicable to Walker), FiveThirtyEight had ranked Walker the third-most conservative among candidates as of May 27, 2015.\n\nInitially a front-runner in the race, Walker saw a precipitous decline in both polling numbers and campaign funds. On September 21, 2015, Walker suspended his campaign and asked other candidates to do the same, so that the party could rally around a conservative alternate to Donald Trump.\n\nOn March 29, 2016, Walker endorsed the candidacy of Ted Cruz. After Donald Trump became the presumptive nominee for the Republican Party in May 2016, Walker stated that he would support Trump as the Republican nominee, saying that Trump would make a better president than Hillary Clinton. Walker withdrew his support for Trump on June 8, 2016 after Trump called the judge Gonzalo P. Curiel biased against Trump because of Curiel's Mexican heritage. While still maintaining that Trump would be better choice than Clinton, Walker noted that Trump is not yet the party's nominee and wanted Trump to renounce his comments on the judge before the 2016 Republican National Convention.\n\nWalker also prepped then-Indiana Governor and Republican Vice-Presidential Nominee Mike Pence for his debate against Virginia Senator and Democratic Vice-Presidential Nominee Tim Kaine on October 4, 2016.\n\nThroughout his life and career, Walker has had a strong and consistent position against abortion. In 2010 Walker told the editorial board of the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" he opposed abortion, without exception for rape or incest. Regarding his stance on abortion, he has stated: \"I don't apologize for that, but I don't focus on that; I don't obsess with it.\" In a TV ad during his 2014 campaign for re-election Walker stated that he is \"pro-life\", and pointed to legislation he signed that leaves \"the final decision to a woman and her doctor\". In August 2015, he criticized the notion that abortion is necessary to save the life of the mother in certain cases, calling it a \"false choice.\"\n\nIn an interview with the \"Milwaukee Journal Sentinel\" a few weeks before the November 2014 election, Walker declined to answer directly when asked if abortion should be prohibited after 20 weeks. In July 2015, Walker signed a state law banning abortion after 20 weeks, including in cases of rape or incest but excluding when immediate danger existed to the life of the mother.\n\nAs Governor of Wisconsin, Walker has received grades of B in 2012 and B in 2014 from the Cato Institute, a libertarian think tank, in their biennial Fiscal Policy Report Card on America's Governors.\n\nWalker moved to weaken tenure for professors at the University of Wisconsin and to cut its funding, while offering authority to reduce spending. He recommended deleting parts of the system's mission that contribute to the Wisconsin Idea. Parts of the mission proposed for deletion, such as the \"search for truth,\" were to be replaced with a directive \"to meet the state's workforce needs.\" Walker later called the change a \"drafting error,\" but public records requests and litigation showed that Walker himself and his office were \"the driving force\" behind the changes. He supports the public funding of private schools and religious schools in the form of vouchers for students. He supports the increased availability of charter schools.\n\nWalker signed a \"No Climate Tax\" pledge promising not to support any legislation that would raise taxes to combat climate change and has been a keynote speaker at the Heartland Institute, which promotes climate change denial. He proposed funding cuts for clean energy and other environmental programs. He has proposed giving many powers of the Environmental Protection Agency to the states. He opposed the Obama administration's efforts to reduce carbon emissions.\n\nIn 2015, Walker indicated that he favored providing arms to Ukraine to fight Russian-backed separatists in that country.\n\nIn 2015, Walker stated in an interview with Charlie Sykes that if elected president, he would \"absolutely\" decide on his first day in office to \"cancel any Iranian deal the Obama administration makes,\" even if European allies which were also party to an agreement opted not to reimpose sanctions.\n\nIn 2015, while campaigning for the Republican presidential nomination, Walker faulted Obama for lack of strategy in dealing with the Islamic State of Iraq and the Levant group, and did not rule out sending U.S. troops to Syria to engage in ground combat with ISIL there. In February 2015, when asked about the war in Syria, Walker said that the U.S. should \"go beyond just aggressive air strikes. We have to look at other surgical methods. And ultimately, we have to be prepared to put boots on the ground if that's what it takes.\"\n\nIn a 2015 interview, Walker said that \"the most significant foreign policy decision\" of his lifetime was President Ronald Reagan's firing 11,000 striking air traffic controllers in 1981, saying: \"It sent a message not only across America, it sent a message around the world ... [that] we weren't to be messed with.\"\n\nIn 2015, Walker opposed rapprochement in relations between the U.S. and Cuba.\n\nWalker has been strongly in favor of gun rights. In July 2011, he signed a bill into law making Wisconsin the 49th concealed carry state in the United States, and on December 7 of that same year he signed the castle doctrine into law. In January and April 2015 speeches in Iowa, Walker included passing those laws among his accomplishments.\n\nThe National Rifle Association gave Walker a 100% ranking in 2014.\n\nOn June 24, 2015, Walker signed two bills into law, one which removed the state's 48-hour waiting period for buying a gun and another which gave retired or off-duty police officers the legal right to carry concealed guns in public schools.\n\nWalker opposes the Affordable Care Act (ACA or \"Obamacare\") and has signed Wisconsin onto a lawsuit seeking to have the ACA rolled back (including provisions for preexisting conditions). He supported the Graham-Cassidy legislation to repeal the ACA; this repeal bill would have eliminated blanket protections for preexisting conditions. In 2018, Walker pledged to pass legislation to protect individuals with preexisting conditions in case the Affordable Care Act were repealed; according to PolitiFact, \"he hasn’t spelled out an alternative that would provide protections that Obamacare does.\" As Governor, he has blocked expansion of Medicaid in Wisconsin.\n\nWalker has stated that securing the United States border with Mexico is \"our first priority\". After that, illegal immigrants in the United States could \"secure their citizenship\" but would have to \"get in the back of line\", and wait like anyone else applying for citizenship. Walker says that he does not advocate deportation for all people in the country illegally, but he is not in favor of amnesty.\n\nIn a 2015 appearance on \"Meet the Press\", Walker said proposals to build a wall along the Canada–United States border was \"a legitimate issue for us to look at.\"\n\nWalker has stated that he would work to \"protect American workers\" by aligning his position with Sen. Jeff Sessions (R-AL), who wrote in a \"Washington Post\" op-ed that legal immigration needs to be \"slowed\".\n\nWalker stated in an OP-ED in the Washington Post \"Like most Americans, I think government is too big and too expansive, but the government that is necessary should work — and work well.\"\n\nWalker says he believes in \"marriage between one man and one woman\". Walker voted for Wisconsin's constitutional amendment to ban same-sex marriage, both as a legislator and as a voter. In September 2014, Walker said he was defending the amendment. When the U.S. Supreme Court subsequently rejected the appeals of five states, including Wisconsin, in October 2014, allowing same-sex marriages to continue, Walker stated: \"I think it's resolved.\" In April 2015, in New Hampshire, Walker stated that marriage is \"defined as between a man and a woman\", and in Iowa said a federal constitutional amendment allowing states to define marriage was reasonable. Walker called the U.S. Supreme Court's \"Obergefell v. Hodges\" decision to legalize same-sex marriage nationwide a \"grave mistake\".\n\nWalker said public-union collective-bargaining rights frustrate balancing the state budget. Walker signed right-to-work legislation he said would contribute to economic growth. \"The Atlantic\" has written that \"anti-union politics\" have defined his tenure as governor and established him as a Republican presidential contender. \"Politico\" wrote that Walker initiated a 21st-century revival of anti-union legislation in upper Midwestern industrial states and that his \"fervent anti-union rhetoric and actions\" has helped his national reputation within the Republican Party.\n\nOn May 24, 2017, Walker signed a bill that allowed unaccompanied minors to attend concerts and other musical festivals where alcohol is being served. On June 21, 2017, he signed into law a bill that allowed 16- and 17-year-olds to work without parental permission.\n\nWalker and his wife Tonette have two sons, Matt (born 1994) and Alex. Walker's wife and sons disagree with him on certain political and religious issues.\n\nThe family attends Meadowbrook Church, a nondenominational, evangelical church in Wauwatosa, which is a daughter church of Elmbrook Church, in nearby Brookfield. Tonette Walker works in the development department for the American Lung Association.\n\nDuring the summers of 2004 through 2009, as Milwaukee County Executive, Walker led a motorcycle tour called the \"Executive's Ride\" through Wisconsin and parts of neighboring states. The ride was organized to attract people to Milwaukee County. Walker rides a 2003 Harley Davidson Road King.\n\nIn 2013, Walker published \"Unintimidated – A Governor's Story and A Nation's Challenge\", co-written with Marc Thiessen, about his experiences during the recall vote and subsequent election, both of which he won.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "111901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=111901", "title": "Stephen Pearl Andrews", "text": "Stephen Pearl Andrews\n\nStephen Pearl Andrews (March 22, 1812 – May 21, 1886) was an American individualist anarchist, linguist, political philosopher, outspoken abolitionist, and author of several books on the labor movement and Individualist anarchism.\n\nAndrews was born in Templeton, Massachusetts on March 22, 1812, \"the youngest of eight children of the Reverend Elisha Andrews and his wife, Ann Lathrop.\" He grew up thirty-five miles northeast in Hinsdale, New Hampshire. Andrews went to Louisiana at age 19 and studied and practiced law there. Appalled by slavery, he became an abolitionist. He was the first counsel of Mrs. Myra Clark Gaines in her celebrated suits. Having moved to Texas in 1839, Andrews and his family were almost killed because of his abolitionist lectures and had to flee in 1843. Andrews travelled to England where he was unsuccessful at raising funds for the abolitionist movement back in America.\n\nWhile in England, Andrews became interested in Pitman's new shorthand writing system and upon his return to the U.S. he taught and wrote about the shorthand writing system, and devised a popular system of phonographic reporting. To further this, he published a series of instruction books and edited two journals, \"The Anglo-Saxon\" and \"The Propagandist\". He devised a \"scientific\" language, \"Alwato,\" in which he was wont to converse and correspond with pupils. At the time of his death, Andrews was compiling a dictionary of Alwato, which was published posthumously. A remarkable linguist, he also became interested in phonetics and the study of foreign languages, eventually teaching himself \"no fewer than 32\" languages.\n\nBy the end of the 1840s, he began to focus his energies on utopian communities. Fellow individualist anarchist Josiah Warren was responsible for Andrew's conversion to radical individualism, and in 1851 they established Modern Times in Brentwood, NY. He was elected an Associate Fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1846. In 1857 Andrews established Unity Home in New York City. By the 1860s he was propounding an ideal society called Pantarchy which is a society with a voluntarty government strongly connected with a New Catholic Church, and from this he moved on to a philosophy he called \"universology\", which stressed the unity of all knowledge and activities. He was also \"among the first Americans to discover Marx and the first to publish his \"Communist Manifesto\" in the U.S.\"\n\nAndrews was one of the first to use the word \"scientology\". The word is defined as a neologism in his 1871 book \"The Primary Synopsis of Universology and Alwato: The New Scientific Universal Language\". In the 1870s Andrews promoted Joseph Rodes Buchanan's Psychometry besides his own Universology predicting that a priori derived knowledge would supersede empirical science as exact science. Andrews was also considered a leader in the religious movement of Spiritualism. The Anarchist Rudolf Rocker called Andrews a significant exponent of Libertarian Socialism in America.\n\nLike most of the nineteenth century individualist anarchists, and unlike the anarcho-communists, Andrews supported the right of employment and wage labor. However, he believed that, in the system within which he was living, individuals were not receiving a wage commensurate with the amount of labor they exerted. He said:\n\nFor Andrews, to be paid \"justly\" was to be paid according to the \"Cost Principle,\" which held that individuals should be paid according to the amount of labor they exert rather than according to the benefit that another receives from that labor (the latter being called the \"Value Principle\"). To help make this simple, he, after Josiah Warren, advocated an economy that uses \"labor notes\". Labor notes are a form of currency marked in labor hours (adjusted for different types of labor based on their difficulty or repugnance). In this way, it is not how much the employer values the employee's labor that determines the employee's pay, but simply how much the employee has labored. For similar reasons he did not believe people should be paid interest for loaning capital; in other words, he did not see the loaning of capital as requiring any labor or deprivation on the part of the loaner. He insisted that the benefit received from goods or labor is not a just measure of price.\n\nAndrews was following Josiah Warren's labor theory of value and hence Andrews' Individualist Anarchism is considered a form of economic mutualism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "712228", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=712228", "title": "Susana Rinaldi", "text": "Susana Rinaldi\n\nSusana Natividad Rinaldi (born December 25, 1935) is an Argentine tango singer.\n\nSusana Natividad Rinaldi was born to a wealthy father and a poor mother in Buenos Aires in 1935. Dubbed \"La Tana\" (in reference to her Italian origins), she spent her childhood moving throughout different provinces of Argentina. She began studying chamber singing at the National Conservatory of Music at age 14, and in 1955 she entered the School of Dramatic Art. Two years later, she made her television debut and in 1959 debuted on the stage. When she was asked to record a poetry concert in 1966 she offered them a tango album, and by the end of that year her first album, with music arranged by bandoneón virtuoso Roberto Pansera, was released.\n\nHer success over time prompted her to give up acting and to instead pursue a career as a singer. After touring Argentine tango bars and milongas, Rinaldi gained fame as a singer during the late 1960s. She called the attention of her audience by singing tangos which up to then had only been sung by men, including standards by José María Contursi, Enrique Santos Discépolo, Homero Manzi, and Cátulo Castillo. This gave her a deserved reputation among a new audience made up mostly of young university students. She achieved fame when she incorporated into her repertoire songs by new authors, such as Eladia Blázquez, Osvaldo Avena, Héctor Negro, and Chico Novarro.\n\nShe and her husband, bandoneón virtuoso Osvaldo Piro, established Magoya, a café concert in seaside Mar del Plata, in 1971. Following the March 1976 coup, however, Rinaldi was forced to leave the country. After a long stay in Paris, she returned to Argentina in 1989 with an innovative idea of a tango-show. Due to this, she was again rejected by traditional tango listeners, although she did become one of the main figures in the tango renewal movement of the time.\n\nAn artist with a political conscience, she supported her ideals through music in international concert tours and as UNESCO Goodwill Ambassador since 1992. Her tireless defense of human rights and her passionate promotion of a more just and peaceful world earned her the title of Illustrious Citizen of Buenos Aires in 1990. Other distinctions earned during her lengthy career include the SADAIC Grand Prize in 1969 and 1999; and the Konex Award in 1985, 2001, and 2005.\n"}
{"id": "311077", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=311077", "title": "Tevfik Esenç", "text": "Tevfik Esenç\n\nTevfik Esenç (1904 – 7 October 1992) was a Circassian exile in Turkey and the last known fully competent speaker of the Ubykh language.\n\nEsenç was raised by his Ubykh-speaking grandparents for a time in the village of Hacı Osman in Turkey, and he served a term as the \"muhtar\" (mayor) of that village, before receiving a post in the civil service of Istanbul. There, he was able to do a great deal of work with the French linguist Georges Dumézil and his associate Georges Charachidzé to help record his language. Not all the writings of Charachidzé (1930-2010) have been published. Others who met Esenç and produced work on Ubykh are: the Norwegian Hans Vogt (1911–92) (see his ‘Dictionnaire de la Langue Oubykh’, 1963, Universitetsvorlaget); the British George Hewitt, who in 1974 visited Hacı Osman Köyü and made recordings with Esenç in Istanbul (the recordings are available on the Net; his account of his meetings in 1974 has been published — ‘Encounterng Ubykh(s)’, in \"Arxeologija i ètnografija pontijsko-kavkazskogo regiona 5\", 195-204, 2016: Krasnodar; see also his ‘The labialised sibilants of Ubykh (North West Caucasian)’, in \"Revue des Etudes Géorgiennes et Caucasiennes, 2\", 1986, 21-30); the Abkhazian Viacheslav Chirikba, who has written on Ubykh settlements and Ubykh surnames; the Turkish A. Sumru Özsoy.\n\nHaving an excellent memory and understanding quickly the goals of Dumézil and the other linguists who came to visit him, he was the primary source of not only the Ubykh language, but also of the mythology, culture and customs of the Ubykh people. He spoke not only Ubykh, but also the Hakuchi dialect of Adyghe, allowing some comparative work to be done between these two members of the Northwest Caucasian family. He was also a fluent speaker of Turkish. He was a purist, and his idiolect of Ubykh was considered by Dumézil as the closest thing to a standard \"literary\" Ubykh language that existed. He is perhaps single-handedly responsible for the world's current knowledge of Ubykh being much more extensive and detailed than it would otherwise be.\n\nEsenç died in 1992 at the age of 88. The inscription that he wanted on his gravestone read as follows:\n\nIn 1994, A. Sumru Özsoy organized an international conference, namely Conference on Northwest Caucasian Linguistics, at Boğaziçi University in memory of Dumézil and Esenç.\n\n"}
{"id": "48737353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48737353", "title": "Tillie Paul", "text": "Tillie Paul\n\nTillie Paul (January 18, 1863 – August 20, 1952) was a Tlingit translator, civil rights advocate, educator, and Presbyterian church elder.\n\nMatilda Kinnon was born in Victoria, British Columbia, the younger daughter of a Tlingit mother named Kut-XooX, and a Scottish father named James Kinnon, who was employed by the Hudson's Bay Company. When her mother fell ill with tuberculosis, she arranged to bring Tillie and her sister north to be raised by Tlingit relatives. Aided by a clansman, Kut-Xoox traveled by canoe with her two daughters along the Inside Passage, a journey of 600 miles. After her mother's death, young Tillie was raised by a maternal aunt, Xoon-sel-ut, and her uncle, Chief Snook of the Naanya.aayi, a clan of the Stikeen-quann, near Wrangell, Alaska. Her adoptive family gave her the name Kah-thli-yudt, soon shortened to \"Kah-tah-ah.\"\n\nTillie lived in Wrangell until she was 12 years old, when she received a marriage proposal from a Christian Tsimishian chief, Abraham Lincoln. Her uncle consented to the marriage, but Tillie was ambivalent. They arranged that she would travel south to Lincoln's home in Prince Rupert, British Columbia with the understanding that no marriage would take place against her will. After her decision not to marry, when she was no longer under the care of the Tsimishian, she went to live with a Methodist minister and his wife, missionaries at Port Simpson, British Columbia. There, she relearned English and was schooled in Christian worship.\n\nHer family arranged for her return to Wrangell and she was admitted to Amanda McFarland's Presbyterian Home and School for Girls, where she started using the name \"Tillie Kinnon.\" \n\nWhile at the McFarland School, Tillie worked as an interpreter for clergyman S. Hall Young in and around Wrangell. She married Louis Francis Paul and in 1882 the two became the first Native couple to be commissioned by the Presbyterian Board of Home Missions to found a new missionary school. Located in Klukwan, Alaska, the school served 64 men and women; Tillie and her husband visited homes three times a week, sharing just twelve textbooks among their students. The couple opened a second school in the Tongass region of Alaska, where Paul's family lived. Paul died in 1886, presumably drowned while scouting for a new school location. However, a contemporary biographer of Tillie Paul's, Mary Lee Davis, suggests that his death was a suspicious one.\n\nPaul's death left Tillie with three young sons to care for on her own. She moved to Sitka, Alaska to work at Sitka Industrial Training School, invited by Sheldon Jackson, a missionary and the General Agent of Education for the Alaskan Territory. There, she performed a range of tasks, acting as an interpreter, supervising sewing classes, serving as a nurse in the boy's hospital ward, and eventually becoming matron of the girl's dormitory.\n\nDuring her years in Sitka, she worked with a fellow teacher, Fanny Willard, to create a writing system for Tlingit language and together they compiled a Tlingit dictionary. She published several articles about Tlingit culture in the Presbyterian newspaper, \"The North Star\" and lectured on Tlingit culture in Sitka as a member of the Society of Alaskan Natural History and Ethnology. Tillie also learned to play the organ, becoming proficient enough to accompany school and church events. Some of her translated hymns and prayers are still in use among Tlingit Christians today.\n\nTillie traveled on behalf of the Presbyterian Church, attending its General Assembly in New York City at least twice. In 1902, she was invited to address the Assembly on the subject of women's role in the church.\n\nIn 1931, Tillie Paul was the first woman ordained as an elder in the Alaska Northwest Synod of the Presbyterian Church, in the first year that Presbyterian women could be so ordained.\n\nIn 1905, Tillie founded the New Covenant Legion, a Christian temperance organization intended to reach Native communities considered especially at risk from alcohol abuse, with George Beck, a student at the Sitka school. The New Covenant Legion in turn became the Alaska Native Brotherhood (ANB) and Alaska Native Sisterhood, the first advocacy organizations for Alaska Native rights. Tillie's sons, William Paul and Louis Paul, were leaders in the ANB as were many of the students Tillie taught at the Sitka school. While her sons are generally given credit for transforming the ANB from a service organization to a political one, Tillie's influence in shaping these leaders was recognized by her contemporaries.\n\nIn November 1922, Tillie assisted a Tlingit relative, Charlie Jones, to vote, after he was refused by election officials in Wrangell. Both were charged with felonies: Charlie Jones for \"falsely swearing to be a citizen\" and voting illegally and Tillie for aiding and abetting him. Her son William, by this time an attorney, defended them both at a trial that took place in Ketchikan, Alaska in 1923. The case hinged on the definition of Native citizenship, which, until 1915, had been determined by the Dawes Act of 1887. That act required Native people to sever tribal ties in order to be recognized as citizens. By 1915, the Alaska Territory had passed the Alaska Citizenship Act. It only recognized Native people as citizens under strict conditions, including the endorsement of at least five white citizens, certain testing requirements, as well as proof that they had \"adopted the habits of civilization.\" William Paul argued that Jones fulfilled the requirements of citizenship under Dawes, insofar as he owned a house, paid taxes, made charitable contributions, and, generally \"lived like a white person.\" Judge Thomas Reed ruled that Dawes preempted the 1915 Citizenship Act. Effectively, this meant that the territorial government could not add procedures such as endorsement by white citizens, testing, or obtaining a certificate of citizenship if the requirements for citizenship under Dawes were met. Tillie Paul Tamaree and Charlie Jones were acquitted.\n\nIn his ruling, Judge Reed wrote that \"if you find that the defendant Charley (sic) Jones was born within the limits of the United States, then you must conclude that the said Charley Jones was born under and within the terms of the 1st Section of the 14th Amendment.\" In 1924, the Indian Citizenship Act conferred citizenship on all Native Americans born within the United States and its territories, extending the franchise, but not completely eradicating further attempts to limit Native American's right to vote.\n\nIn 1882, Tillie Kinnon married Louis Francis Paul, with whom she had three sons.\n\nIn 1887, Tille was widowed.\n\nIn 1905, Tillied married again to William Tamaree, with whom she had three daughters.\n\nIn 1924, Tillie's son, William became the first Alaska Native elected to the territorial legislature.\n\nIn 1952, Tillie Paul died at a hospital in Wrangell, age 90.\n\nIn 1979, an infirmary building on the campus of Sheldon Jackson College was named for Tillie Paul.\n\nIn 1997, her daughter-in-law, Frances Lackey Paul, published a children's book, Kahtahah, based on her mother-in-law's early life.\n\nIn 2001, the Sheldon Jackson School was designated a National Historic Landmark.\n\nIn 2015, Tillie Paul's great-granddaughter, Debra O'Gara, was named Tribal Court Presiding Judge by the Central Council of the Tlingit and Haida Indian Tribes of Alaska.\n"}
{"id": "14950378", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14950378", "title": "Walter Kauzmann", "text": "Walter Kauzmann\n\nWalter J. Kauzmann (18 August 1916 – 27 January 2009) was an American chemist and professor emeritus of Princeton University. He was noted for his work in both physical chemistry and biochemistry. His most important contribution was recognizing that the hydrophobic effect plays a key role in determining the three-dimensional structure of proteins. He is also well known for an insight into the nature of supercooled liquids which is now known as Kauzmann's paradox. At Princeton, Kauzmann was the David B. Jones Professor Emeritus of Chemistry. He chaired the Department of Chemistry from 1964 to 1968 and the Department of Biochemical Sciences from 1980 to 1981.\n\nHe was born in Mount Vernon, New York and grew up in New Rochelle, New York. He was the son of the German-born Albert F. Kauzmann, who came to the United States in 1895, and Julia (Kahle) Kauzmann. Albert operated a gem-importing business in Lower Manhattan and would often bring his son to work on Saturday mornings. They would spend the afternoon at the American Museum of Natural History or attend a matinee at the Metropolitan Opera, nurturing Walter's lifelong love of science and music.\n\nKauzmann earned a B.A. degree in 1937 from Cornell University, which he attended on a full scholarship. He started his doctoral work at Princeton University in organic chemistry, but switched to physical chemistry, earning a Ph.D. in 1940 under the direction of Henry Eyring. Following his Ph.D., Kauzmann had a two-year postdoctoral appointment in Pittsburgh as a Westinghouse Research Fellow, in the laboratory led by Edward U. Condon. It was during this period that Kauzmann wrote his now classic paper on supercooled liquids and glasses that contained the Kauzmann paradox. At the end of this fellowship, with the U.S. fighting WWII, Kauzmann joined the U.S. government's National Defense Research Council laboratory in Bruceton, Pennsylvania, which was directed by George Kistiakowsky, and worked on chemical explosives.\n\nIn 1944, Kauzmann was recruited into the top secret Manhattan Project and he moved to Los Alamos, New Mexico. Eventually, Kauzmann was put in charge of producing the detonator for the Trinity test, which was the first detonation of an atomic bomb, and of the (Fat Man) plutonium bomb that was dropped on Nagasaki, Japan. Kauzmann witnessed the Trinity test on July 16, 1945, and his memories were recorded in a newspaper article. Fifty years later, Kauzmann discussed why he worked on the atomic bomb:\n\n\"But there was another, even stronger reason that many of us felt justified our working as hard as we could on the bomb. It was felt that if it were possible to make atomic bombs, somewhere, someday, someone would figure out how to do it and some country would proceed to make them. If this were done after World War II was over, the bomb would very likely be made as a secret weapon. This would inevitably lead to World War III. Therefore, there were strong reasons for trying to make the bomb - and use it - before the end of World War II. The people of the world would then know the terrible thing that could be unleashed if there were a World War III. And the politicians could then be encouraged to try to do something about preventing World War III.\" \n\nIn 1946, Kauzmann returned to Princeton as an Assistant Professor of Chemistry and remained on the Princeton Faculty throughout his long academic career. His work was centered in the area of biophysical chemistry, particularly the studies of the structure and thermodynamics of proteins. His insight that hydrophobic interactions play a key role in stabilizing protein structure was made before X-ray crystallography provided the first three-dimensional structures of proteins. Kauzmann's model, that proteins fold to bury hydrophobic residues and to expose hydrophilic ones, has stood the test of time and is one of the key principles of de novo protein structure prediction. Kauzmann became an emeritus professor in 1982.\n\nHis first book, \"Quantum Chemistry\", was published in 1957, followed by \"The Kinetic Theory of Gases\" (1966) and \"Thermodynamics and Statistics\" (1967). With David Eisenberg, a former postdoctoral fellow of Kauzmann, he wrote \"The Structure and Properties of Water\" (1969), a book reissued in 2005 by Oxford University Press as part of its Classic Texts in the Physical Sciences series. The first three are textbooks for undergraduate physical chemistry, which Kauzmann taught at Princeton for many years. Kauzmann's pedagogy is discussed in an article by Bruce Alberts.\n\nKauzmann married Elizabeth Flagler Kauzmann, then a research assistant in the laboratory of Frank Johnson in the Princeton Biology Department, in April, 1951. Elizabeth died in 2004 after more than 50 years of marriage. They are survived by two sons, a daughter, and eight grandchildren. They summered on Cape Breton Island, and eventually donated of their property to the Nova Scotia Nature Trust.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14897023", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14897023", "title": "William Pope McArthur", "text": "William Pope McArthur\n\nWilliam Pope McArthur (April 2, 1814 – December 23, 1850) was an American naval officer and hydrologist who was involved in the first surveys of the Pacific Coast for the U.S. Coast and Geodetic Survey.\n\nMcArthur was born in Ste. Genevieve, Missouri to John and Mary (Linn) McArthur. McArthur's maternal uncle, Dr. Lewis F. Linn, was U.S. Senator for Missouri. At Linn's request, McArthur was appointed Midshipman in the U.S. Navy on February 11, 1832. In 1837 he attended the Naval School at Norfolk, Virginia.\n\nDuring the Second Seminole War (1837–1838), McArthur was promoted to the temporary rank of Lieutenant and placed in command of a small craft. Among the passengers was Joseph E. Johnston, who accompanied the vessel as a civilian topographical engineer. He later served as a general in the US Army and then the Confederate Army during the American Civil War.\n\nMcArthur was wounded in both legs by Seminole at Jupiter, Florida. While one musket ball was pulled from one leg, a ball remained in the other leg. He was sent to the Naval Hospital in Norfolk, Virginia for treatment and convalescence. There he met, courted, and married Mary Stone Young, the daughter of the Superintendent of the Hospital. Among their children was Lewis Linn McArthur, an Oregon Supreme Court Justice.\n\nIn 1840 he began a survey of the Gulf Of Mexico aboard the brig \"Consort\".\n\nOn October 27, 1848 A.D. Bache, Superintendent U.S. Coast Survey, instructed him to go to San Francisco, California to begin \"the survey of the Western Coast of the United States.\"\n\nAfter sailing from New York McArthur was delayed in Panama by the influx of settlers in the California Gold Rush. In Panama, McArthur was asked to captain a former coal storage ship to San Francisco. The \"von Humboldt\" left Panama on May 21, 1849 and took 102 days to arrive at San Francisco, the first 46 of which were spent getting to the Mexican port of Acapulco. Among the four hundred passengers on \"von Humboldt\" were Collis P. Huntington, the future president of the Southern Pacific Railroad and San Francisco Society portrait painter Stephen W. Shaw.\n\nIn September 1849, Lieutenant Commander McArthur was placed in command of the US survey schooner \"Ewing\" which had been brought around the Cape Horn to the west coast by Lieutenant Washington Allon Bartlett. Upon reaching San Francisco, The \"Ewing\" and the \"USS Massachusetts\" were hampered from progress in the survey due to desertions of their crews to the goldfields, including a mutiny when crew members rowing into the city from the \"Ewing\" threw an officer overboard in an attempt to desert to flee to the gold fields. They managed to survey Mare Island Strait before steaming to Hawaii to obtain crewmen from Hawaiian monarch King Kamehameha III. They returned to San Francisco in the spring of 1850 with the coastal survey of northern California beginning on 1850-04-03 and continued up to the mouth of the Columbia River On August 1, 1850, while still in Oregon, McArthur purchased a 1/16 interest in Mare Island for $468.50 then returned to San Francisco later that month to prepare charts and write reports.\n\nIn 1848 Congress had appropriated funds for two lighthouses in the act creating the Oregon Territory. McArthur was to recommend placing one at Cape Disappointment on the Columbia and one at Cape Flattery at the entrance to Puget Sound. In his report McArthur wrote: The greatly increasing commerce of Oregon demands that these improvements be made immediately… Within the last eighteen months more vessels have crossed the Columbia river bar than had crossed it, perhaps, in all time past.\n\nMcArthur and some of his ship mates were quite taken with Oregon and the Willamette Valley, he wrote:The climate is agreeable and healthy. The water is not inferior to any in the world. The face of the country is too uneven to permit as general cultivation, still it will and must soon become a great agricultural and stock growing country. The scenery is beautiful and in some places and some points of view the grandest that the eye ever beheld. Lieutenant Blunt who accompanied him on the expedition even made a land claim on behalf of himself, McArthur and Bartlett. McArthur's uncle, Senator Linn, along with Senator Thomas Hart Benton, had been an advocate of American expansion in the West.\n\nMcArthur was not to survive the voyage to the east coast in 1850. He became ill onboard with dysentery, died, and was buried in Panama. The Navy purchased the original 956 acres (387 ha) of the Mare Island Naval Shipyard on January 4, 1853. McArthur's family share was $5,218.20. in 1867, his body was disinterred and he was reburied on Mare Island.\n\nMcArthur's name is applied to several ships and placenames.\n\n"}
{"id": "32474116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32474116", "title": "Yu Huiyong", "text": "Yu Huiyong\n\nYu Huiyong () (1925–1977) was a Chinese artist and politician of the Communist Party of China and the People's Republic of China. He is known for the art he made of Mao Zhedong, the then-leader of China.\n\nYu Huiyong was born in Shandong Province in 1925. He was greatly interested in music and learned to play a variety of instruments such as the erhu, the sanxian, and the dizi. During the Second Sino-Japanese War, he joined a communist performance group, and in 1949 went to teach at the Shanghai Conservatory of Music (while simultaneously studying popular music), helping at turning a Western-oriented institution into a training ground for the communist art of People's China. In the meantime, he joined the Communist Party of China. He graduated in 1950 but continued to work in the field of music.\n\nIn the same year, Yu Huiyong was transferred to the Research Institute on Ethnic Music, where he wrote many essays on music styles in China's provinces and took part in creating orchestral performances. In later years, he continued teaching and writing, publishing a comprehensive essay on China's folk music in 1959. In 1962 he was promoted to lecturer at the Shanghai Conservatory, and deputy director of its musical theory department the following year. In 1965 he was appointed member of the Drama Reform and Creative Group, and worked on musical embellishment of \"Taking Tiger Mountain by Strategy\", one of the \"eight model revolutionary theatrical works\" re-elaborated by Jiang Qing.\n\nIn 1966, when the Cultural Revolution broke out, Yu Huiyong and many of the Shanghai Conservatory staff were targeted as bourgeois intellectuals and forced to resign, submit to self-criticism and criticism by students, and do physical labor. Yu Huiyong however took active part at the movement: he was called to Beijing to stage the \"eight model revolutionary theatrical works\", then returned to Shanghai where he joined the \"rebel faction\". In 1967 he was appointed vice-chairman of the Shanghai Conservatory Revolutionary Committee, chairman of the preparatory committee for the Shanghai Cultural Revolutionary Committee, and put in charge of the Shanghai Peking Opera Theatre. He worked directly under Zhang Chunqiao, one of the Gang of Four.\n\nTaking an ever more prominent role, in 1968 Yu Huiyong chaired the criticism meeting against He Luting, president of the Shanghai Conservatory of Music. In 1969 he participated to the CPC 9th National Congress and was appointed standing committee member of the Shanghai Municipal Revolutionary Committee.\n\nIn 1970 Yu Huiyong was transferred to Beijing to become a member of the Cultural Group Under the State Council of the People's Republic of China chaired by Wu De. He was in charge of following movie transposition of model operas like \"The Legend of the Red Lantern\", \"Red Detachment of Women\", etc. In 1973 he was elected member of the CPC Central Committee by the Party's 10th Congress, and also appointed deputy head of the Cultural Group; later he was promoted to Minister of Culture in 1975 as the post was re-established by the 1st Session of the 4th National People's Congress.\n\nIn the last stages of the Cultura Revolution, Yu Huiyong oversaw art production and anti-revisionist works in China, as the film \"Chunmiao\" (Spring Sprout), which was criticized by Deng Xiaoping as \"ultra-leftist\". All of this led him to be accused of being part of the Gang of Four plot, aspiring to be a vice-premier and CPC Politburo member. For that he was arrested in October 1976. He committed suicide in August 1977.\n"}
{"id": "2767061", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2767061", "title": "Ziggy the bagman", "text": "Ziggy the bagman\n\nZbigniew Marian Wilczek Alba or Ziggy the bagman as he is known, is a man who chooses to be homeless and can be found in the inner Brisbane suburb of Toowong. Ziggy objects to being labelled as \"homeless\" as he does not ask for food, money or clothing and actually enjoys his current living conditions, despite being without a home of his own and living in a public park. More recently he has gained much media attention, becoming a controversial issue in two consecutive local elections.\n\nDespite the lack of information pertaining to his early life it is known that Ziggy the bagman was born as Zbigniew Marian Wilczek in the early 1950s and was of a Polish nationality. His name was later changed to Tim Jenkins. While it is unknown when exactly he became homeless, he had been sighted in Jephson Street Toowong as early as 1989. He became known by the locals as either \"Tim\" or \"Ziggy\". \"Ziggy the bagman\" became his nickname throughout his ongoing media coverage.\n\nHe entered public view in the year 2000 with the then Lord Mayor Jim Soorley protesting the complaints of several Toowong businesses requesting that he be removed on the grounds that he was bad for business and his low levels of hygiene attracted rats. Soorley claimed that he was completely within the law in his position. As he gained attention, he was in increased danger, with his small home being attacked several times by various groups demanding his removal from Toowong. His publicity only grew and since then has featured in local news reports several times.\n\nEarly in 2004 he was the subject of \"Operation Ziggy\", an effort by ABC presenter (from 612 AM) Spencer Howson to find him a home. After being interviewed on air, it was revealed that Ziggy was not so willing to be a party to this scheme and so the plan collapsed.\n\nLater that year a portrait of him painted by local artist Bruce Chapman was entered in the Archibald Prize. His only requested payment was $8 worth of food, including ice cream, several biscuits and a bottle of soft drink. Ziggy also gave an interview for a similar fee of $10.\n\nDuring July 2004, he is said to have had his first shower and his home became too messy by his own self-imposed rules; the police were called in to help clean up and Ziggy promised to move by Christmas. He found a new spot in a local barbecue area, remaining in Toowong. After more attacks on him midway through 2005, new calls were made to have him taken off the streets, Lord Mayor Campbell Newman insists, just as his predecessor did, that Ziggy is breaking no laws and will not be forced to move, despite Newman's personal hopes that he could be moved to a \"proper place\". In December 2005 his possessions were confiscated by police due to smell and vermin. \n\nIn July 2006 Ziggy moved on from his High Street location to a new spot at Oakman Park. Radio News reported that he moved because of attacks at his old location. He later moved to Toowong Creek. \nZiggy has most recently moved to a Taringa park between Morrow Street and Moggil Road.\n"}
