{"id": "23884742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23884742", "title": "African Development Review", "text": "African Development Review\n\nThe African Development Review is devoted to the study and analysis of development policy in Africa.\n\nRestricted access\nFulltext online: vol. 1, no. 1 (1989) -\n\n\n"}
{"id": "399990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=399990", "title": "American Museum of Natural History", "text": "American Museum of Natural History\n\nThe American Museum of Natural History (abbreviated as AMNH), located on the Upper West Side of Manhattan, New York City, is one of the largest museums in the world. Located in Theodore Roosevelt Park across the street from Central Park, the museum complex comprises 28 interconnected buildings housing 45 permanent exhibition halls, in addition to a planetarium and a library. The museum collections contain over 33 million specimens of plants, animals, fossils, minerals, rocks, meteorites, human remains, and human cultural artifacts, of which only a small fraction can be displayed at any given time, and occupies more than . The museum has a full-time scientific staff of 225, sponsors over 120 special field expeditions each year, and averages about five million visits annually.\n\nThe one mission statement of the American Museum of Natural History is: \"To discover, interpret, and disseminate—through scientific research and education—knowledge about human cultures, the natural world, and the universe.\"\n\nBefore construction of the present complex, the museum was housed in the Arsenal building in Central Park. Theodore Roosevelt, Sr., the father of the 26th U.S. President, was one of the founders along with John David Wolfe, William T. Blodgett, Robert L. Stuart, Andrew H. Green, Robert Colgate, Morris K. Jesup, Benjamin H. Field, D. Jackson Steward, Richard M. Blatchford, J. P. Morgan, Adrian Iselin, Moses H. Grinnell, Benjamin B. Sherman, A. G. Phelps Dodge, William A. Haines, Charles A. Dana, Joseph H. Choate, Henry G. Stebbins, Henry Parish, and Howard Potter. The founding of the museum realized the dream of naturalist Dr. Albert S. Bickmore. Bickmore, a one-time student of Harvard zoologist Louis Agassiz, lobbied tirelessly for years for the establishment of a natural history museum in New York. His proposal, backed by his powerful sponsors, won the support of the Governor of New York, John Thompson Hoffman, who signed a bill officially creating the American Museum of Natural History on April 6, 1869.\n\nIn 1874, the cornerstone was laid for the museum's first building, which is now hidden from view by the many buildings in the complex that today occupy most of Manhattan Square. The original Victorian Gothic building, which was opened in 1877, was designed by Calvert Vaux and J. Wrey Mould, both already closely identified with the architecture of Central Park.\n\nThe original building was soon eclipsed by the south range of the museum, designed by J. Cleaveland Cady, an exercise in rusticated brownstone neo-Romanesque, influenced by H. H. Richardson. It extends along West 77th Street, with corner towers tall. Its pink brownstone and granite, similar to that found at Grindstone Island in the St. Lawrence River, came from quarries at Picton Island, New York.\n\nThe entrance on Central Park West, the New York State Memorial to Theodore Roosevelt, completed by John Russell Pope in 1936, is an overscaled Beaux-Arts monument. It leads to a vast Roman basilica, where visitors are greeted with a cast of a skeleton of a rearing \"Barosaurus\" defending her young from an \"Allosaurus\". The museum is also accessible through its 77th street foyer, renamed the \"Grand Gallery\" and featuring a fully suspended Haida canoe. The hall leads into the oldest extant exhibit in the museum, the hall of Northwest Coast Indians.\n\nSince 1930, little has been added to the exterior of the original building. The architect Kevin Roche and his firm Roche-Dinkeloo have been responsible for the master planning of the museum since the 1990s. Various renovations to both the interior and exterior have been carried out. Renovations to the Dinosaur Hall were undertaken starting in 1991, and the museum also restored the mural in Roosevelt Memorial Hall in 2010. In 1992 the Roche-Dinkeloo firm designed the eight-story AMNH Library. However, the entirety of the master plan was ultimately not fully realized, and by 2015, the museum consisted of 25 separate buildings that were poorly connected.\n\nThe museum's south façade, spanning 77th Street from Central Park West to Columbus Avenue was cleaned, repaired and re-emerged in 2009. Steven Reichl, a spokesman for the museum, said that work would include restoring 650 black-cherry window frames and stone repairs. The museum's consultant on the latest renovation is Wiss, Janney, Elstner Associates, Inc., an architectural and engineering firm with headquarters in Northbrook, Illinois.\n\nIn 2014, the museum published plans for a $325 million, annex, the Richard Gilder Center for Science, Education, and Innovation, on the Columbus Avenue side. Designed by Studio Gang, Higgins Quasebarth & Partners and landscape architects Reed Hilderbrand, the new building's pink Milford granite facade will have a textural, curvilinear design inspired by natural topographical elements showcased in the museum, including \"geological strata, glacier-gouged caves, curving canyons, and blocks of glacial ice,\" as a striking contrast to the museum's predominance of High Victorian Gothic, Richardson Romanesque and Beaux Arts architectural styles. The interior itself would contain a new entrance from Columbus Avenue north of 79th Street; a multiple-story storage structure containing specimens and objects; rooms to display these objects; an insect hall; an \"interpretive\" \"wayfinding wall\", and a theater. This expansion was originally supposed to be located to the south of the existing museum, occupying parts of Theodore Roosevelt Park. The expansion was relocated to the west side of the existing museum, and its footprint was reduced in size, due to opposition to construction in the park. The annex would instead replace three existing buildings along Columbus Avenue's east side, with more than 30 connections to the existing museum, and it would be six stories high, the same height as the existing buildings. The plans for the expansion were scrutinized by the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission. On October 11, 2016, the Landmarks Preservation Commission unanimously approved the expansion. Construction of the Gilder Center, which was expected to break ground the next year following design development and Environmental Impact Statement stages, would entail demolition of three museum buildings built between 1874 and 1935. The museum formally filed plans to construct the expansion in August 2017. The project is expected to be complete by 2019 or 2020.\n\nThe museum's first two presidents were John David Wolfe (1870–1872) and Robert L. Stuart (1872–1881), both among the museum's founders. The museum was not put on a sound footing until the appointment of the third president, Morris K. Jesup (also one of the original founders), in 1881. Jesup was president for over 25 years, overseeing its expansion and much of its golden age of exploration and collection. The fourth president, Henry Fairfield Osborn, was appointed in 1906 on the death of Jesup. Osborn consolidated the museum's expansion, developing it into one of the world's foremost natural history museums. F. Trubee Davison was president from 1933 to 1951, with A. Perry Osborn as Acting President from 1941 to 1946. Alexander M. White was president from 1951 to 1968. Gardner D. Stout was president from 1968 to 1975. Robert G. Goelet from 1975 to 1988. George D. Langdon, Jr. from 1988 to 1993. Ellen V. Futter has been president of the museum since 1993.\n\nFamous names associated with the museum include the paleontologist and geologist Henry Fairfield Osborn; the dinosaur-hunter of the Gobi Desert, Roy Chapman Andrews (one of the inspirations for Indiana Jones); George Gaylord Simpson; biologist Ernst Mayr; pioneer cultural anthropologists Franz Boas and Margaret Mead; explorer and geographer Alexander H. Rice, Jr.; and ornithologist Robert Cushman Murphy. J. P. Morgan was also among the famous benefactors of the museum.\n\nNamed after taxidermist Carl Akeley, the Akeley Hall of African Mammals is a two-story hall located directly behind the Theodore Roosevelt rotunda. Its 28 dioramas depict in meticulous detail the great range of ecosystems found in Africa and the mammals endemic to them. The centerpiece of the hall is a pack of eight African elephants in a characteristic 'alarmed' formation. Though the mammals are typically the main feature in the dioramas, birds and flora of the regions are occasionally featured as well. In the 80 years since Akeley Hall’s creation, many of the species within have become endangered, some critically, and the locations deforested. Despite this, none of the species are yet extinct, in part thanks to the work of Carl Akeley himself (see Virunga National Park). The hall connects to the Hall of African Peoples.\n\nThe Hall of African Mammals was first proposed to the museum by Carl Akeley around 1909. His original concept contained forty dioramas which would present the rapidly vanishing landscapes and animals of Africa. The intent was that a visitor of the hall, “may have the illusion, at worst, of passing a series of pictures of primeval Africa, and at best, may think for a moment that he has stepped across the sea into Africa itself.” Akeley’s proposal was a hit with both the board of trustees and then museum president, Henry Fairfield Osborne. To fund its creation, Daniel Pomeroy, a trustee of the museum and partner at J.P. Morgan, offered interested investors the opportunity to accompany the museum’s expeditions in Africa in exchange for funding. \n\nAkeley began collecting specimens for the hall as early as 1909, famously encountering Theodore Roosevelt in the midst of the Smithsonian-Roosevelt African expedition (two of the elephants featured in the museum’s center piece were donated by Roosevelt, a cow, shot by Roosevelt himself, and a calf, shot by his son Kermit). On these early expeditions, Akeley would be accompanied by his former apprentice in taxidermy, James L. Clark, and artist, William R. Leigh.\n\nWhen Akeley returned to Africa to collect gorillas for the hall’s first diorama, Clark remained behind and began scouring the country for artists to create the backgrounds. The eventual appearance of the first habitat groups would have a huge impact on the museum. Akeley and Clark’s skillful taxidermy paired with the backgrounds painted under Leigh’s direction created an illusion of life in these animals that made the museum’s other exhibits seem dull in comparison (the museum’s original style of exhibition can still be seen in the small area devoted to birds and animals of New York). Plans for other diorama halls quickly emerged and by 1929 Birds of the World, the Hall of North American Mammals, the Vernay Hall of Southeast Asian Mammals, and the Hall of Oceanic Life were all in stages of planning or construction. \n\nAfter Akeley’s unexpected death during the Eastman-Pommeroy expedition in 1926, responsibility of the hall’s completion fell to James L. Clark. Despite being hampered by the onset of the Great Depression in 1929, Clark’s passion for Africa and his dedication to his former mentor kept the project alive. In 1933, Clark would hire architectural artist James Perry Wilson to assist Leigh in the painting of backgrounds. More technically minded than Leigh, Wilson would make many improvements on Leigh’s techniques, including a range of methods to minimize the distortion caused by the dioramas’ curved walls.\nIn 1936, William Durant Campbell, a wealthy board member with a desire to see Africa, offered to fund several dioramas if allowed to obtain the specimens himself. Clark agreed to this arrangement and shortly after Campbell left to collect the okapi and black rhinoceros specimens accompanied by artist Robert Kane. Campbell would be involved, in one capacity or another, with several other subsequent expeditions. Despite setbacks including malaria, flooding, foreign government interference, and even a boat sinking, these expeditions would succeed in acquiring some of Akeley Hall’s most impressive specimens.\nBack in the museum, Kane would join Leigh and Wilson, along with a handful of other artists in completing the hall’s remaining dioramas. Though construction of the hall was completed in 1936, the dioramas would gradually open between the mid-1920s and early 1940s.\n\nThe Hall of Asian Mammals, sometimes referred to as the Vernay-Faunthorpe Hall of Asian Mammals, is a one-story hall located directly to the left of the Theodore Roosevelt Rotunda. It contains 8 complete dioramas, 4 partial dioramas, and 6 habitat groups of mammals and locations from India, Nepal, Burma, and Malaysia. The hall opened in 1930 and, similar to Akeley Hall, is centered around 2 Asian elephants. At one point, a giant panda and Siberian tiger were also part of the Hall's collection, originally intended to be part of an adjoining Hall of North Asian Mammals (planned in the current location of Stout Hall of Asian Peoples). These specimens can currently be seen in the Hall of Biodiversity.\n\nSpecimens for the Hall of Asian Mammals were collected over six expeditions led by Arthur S. Vernay and Col. John Faunthorpe (as noted by stylized plaques at both entrances). The expeditions were funded entirely by Vernay, a wealthy, British-born, New York antiques dealer. He characterized the expense as a British tribute to American involvement in World War I.\n\nThe first Vernay-Faunthorpe expedition took place in 1922. At the time, many of the animals Vernay was seeking, such as the Sumatran rhinoceros and Asiatic lion, were already rare and facing the possibility of extinction. To acquire these specimens, Vernay would have to make many appeals to regional authorities in order to obtain hunting permits. The relations he would forge during this time would assist later museum related expeditions headed by Vernay in gaining access to areas previously restricted to foreign visitors.\nArtist Clarence C. Rosenkranz accompanied the Vernay-Faunthorpe expeditions as field artist and would later paint the majority of the diorama backgrounds in the hall. These expeditions were also well documented in both photo and video, with enough footage of the first expedition to create a feature-length film, \"Hunting Tigers in India\" (1929).\n\nThe Bernard Family Hall of North American Mammals features 43 dioramas of various mammals of the American continent, north of tropical Mexico. Each diorama places focus on a particular species, ranging from the largest megafauna to the smaller rodents and carnivorans. Notable dioramas include the Alaskan brown bears looking at a salmon after they scared off an otter, a pair of wolves, a pair of Sonoran jaguars, and dueling bull Alaska moose.\n\nThe Hall of North American Mammals opened in 1942 with only ten dioramas, including those of the larger North American mammals. In 1948, the wolf diorama was installed, but further progress on the hall was halted as World War II broke out. After the war the hall ceased completion in 1954. Since that time, the hall had remained the much the same and the majority of the mounts were weathering and bleaching. A massive restoration project began in late 2011 due to a large donation from Jill and Lewis Bernard. Taxidermists were brought in to clean the mounts and skins and artists restored the diorama backdrops. In October 2012 the hall was reopened as the Bernard Hall of North American Mammals and included scientifically-updated signage for each diorama.\n\nThe Hall of Small Mammals is an offshoot of the Bernard Family Hall of North American Mammals. There are several small dioramas featuring small mammals found throughout North America, including collared peccaries, Abert's squirrel, and a wolverine.\n\nThe Sanford Hall of North American birds is a one-story hall located on the third floor of the museum, above the Hall of African Peoples and between the Hall of Primates and Akeley Hall’s second level. Its 25 dioramas depict birds from across North America in their native habitats. Opening in 1909, the dioramas in Sanford Hall were the first to be exhibited in the museum and are, at present, the oldest still on display. At the far end of the hall are two large murals by ornithologist and artist, Louis Agassiz Fuertes. In addition to the species listed below, the hall also has display cases devoted to large collections of warblers, owls, and raptors.\n\nConceived by museum ornithologist Frank Chapman, construction began on dioramas for the Hall of North American Birds as early as 1902. The Hall is named for Chapman's friend and amateur ornithologist Leonard C. Sanford, who partially funded the hall and also donated the entirety of his own bird specimen collection to the museum.\n\nAlthough Chapman was not the first to create museum dioramas, he was responsible for many of the innovations that would separate and eventually define the dioramas in the American Museum. Whereas other dioramas of the time period typically featured generic scenery, Chapman was the first to bring artists into the field with him in the hopes of capturing a specific location at a specific time. In contrast to the dramatic scenes later created by Carl Akeley for the African Hall, Chapman wanted his dioramas to evoke a scientific realism, ultimately serving as a historical record of habitats and species facing a high probability of extinction.\n\nAt the time of Sanford Hall's construction, plume-hunting for the millinery trade had brought many coastal bird species to the brink of extinction, most notably the great egret. Frank Chapman was a key figure in the conservation movement that emerged during this time. His dioramas were created with the intention of furthering this conservationist cause, giving museum visitors a brief glimpse at the dwindling bird species being lost in the name of fashion. Thanks in part to Chapman's efforts, both inside and outside of the museum, conservation of these bird species would be very successful, establishing refuges, such as Pelican Island National Wildlife Refuge, and eventually leading to the Migratory Bird Treaty Act of 1918.\n\nThe global diversity of bird species is exhibited in this hall. 12 dioramas showcase various ecosystems around the world and provide a sample of the varieties of birds that live there. Example dioramas include South Georgia featuring king penguins and skuas, the East African plains featuring secretarybirds and bustards, and the Australian outback featuring honeyeaters, cockatoos, and kookaburras.\n\nThis particular hall has undergone a complicated history over the years since its founding in 1953. Frank Chapman and Leonard C. Sanford, originally museum volunteers, had gone forward with creation of a hall to feature birds of the Pacific islands. In the years up to its founding, the museum had engaged in various expeditions to Fiji, New Zealand, and the Marianas (among other locations) to collect birds for the exhibit. The hall was designed as a completely immersive collection of dioramas, including a circular display featuring birds-of-paradise. In 1998, The Butterfly Conservatory was installed inside the hall originally as a temporary exhibit, but as the popular demand of the exhibit increased, the Hall of Oceanic Birds has more or less remained closed by the museum.\n\nThe Hall of Reptiles and Amphibians serves as an introduction to herpetology, with many exhibits detailing reptile evolution, anatomy, diversity, reproduction, and behavior. Notable exhibits include a komodo dragon group, an American alligator, Lonesome George, the last Pinta island tortoise, and poison dart frogs.\n\nThe Hall of North American Forests is a one-story hall located on the museum’s ground floor in between the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Hall and the Warburg Hall of New York State Environments. It contains ten dioramas depicting a range of forest types from across North America as well as several displays on forest conservation and tree health. Constructed under the guidance of noted botanist Henry K. Svenson (who also oversaw Warburg Hall’s creation) and opened in 1959, each diorama specifically lists both the location and exact time of year depicted. Trees and plants featured in the dioramas are constructed of a combination of art supplies and actual bark and other specimens collected in the field. The entrance to the hall features a cross section from a 1,400-year-old sequoia taken from the King's River grove on the west flank of the Sierra Mountains in 1891.\n\nWarburg Hall of New York State Environments is a one-story hall located on the museum’s ground floor in between the Hall of North American Forests and the Grand Hall. Based on the town of Pine Plains and near-by Stissing Mountain in Dutchess County, the hall gives a multi-faceted presentation of the eco-systems typical of New York. Aspects covered include soil types, seasonal changes, and the impact of both humans and nonhuman animals on the environment. It is named for the German-American philanthropist, Felix M. Warburg. Originally known as the \"Hall of Man and Nature\", Warburg Hall opened in 1951. It has changed little since and is now frequently regarded for its retro-modern styling. The hall shares many of the exhibit types featured throughout the museum as well as one display type, unique to Warburg, which features a recessed miniature diorama behind a foreground of species and specimens from the environment depicted.\n\nThe Milstein Hall of Ocean Life focuses on marine biology, botany and marine conservation. The hall is most famous for its -long blue whale model, suspended from the ceiling behind its dorsal fin.\n\nThe upper level of the hall exhibits the vast array of ecosystems present in the ocean. Dioramas compare and contrast the life in these different settings including polar seas, kelp forests, mangroves, coral reefs and the bathypelagic. It attempts to show how vast and varied the oceans are while encouraging common themes throughout. The lower, and arguably more famous, half of the hall consists of several large dioramas of larger marine organisms. It is on this level that the famous \"Squid and the Whale\" diorama sits, depicting a hypothetical fight between the two creatures. Other notable exhibits in this hall include the Andros Coral Reef Diorama, which is the only two-level diorama in the Western Hemisphere. One of the most famous icons of the museum is a life-sized fiberglass model of a ninety-four foot (29 m) long Atlantic blue whale. The whale was redesigned dramatically in the 2003 renovation: its flukes and fins were readjusted, a navel was added, and it was repainted from a dull gray to various rich shades of blue.\n\nIn 1910, museum president Henry F. Osborn proposed the construction of a large building in the museum's southeast courtyard to house a new Hall of Ocean Life in which \"models and skeletons of whales\" would be exhibited. This proposal to build in the courtyard marked a major reappraisal of the museum's original architectural plan. Calvert Vaux had designed the museum complex to include four open courtyards in order to maximize the amount of natural light entering the surrounding buildings. In 1969, a renovation gave the hall a more explicit focus on oceanic megafauna in order to paint the ocean as a grandiose and exciting place. The key component of the renovation became the addition of a lifelike blue whale model to replace a popular steel and papier-mâché whale model that had hung in the Biology of Mammals hall. Richard Van Gelder oversaw the creation of the hall in its current incarnation.\n\nThe hall was renovated once again in 2003, this time with environmentalism and conservation being the main focal points. Paul Milstein was a real estate developer, business leader and philanthropist and Irma Milstein is a long-time Board member of the American Museum of Natural History. The 2003 renovation included refurbishment of the famous blue whale, suspended high above the 19,000 square foot (1,750 m²) exhibit floor, and updating of the 1930s and 1960s dioramas. New displays were linked to schools via technology.\n\nThe Stout Hall of Asian Peoples is a one-story hall located on the museum’s second floor in between the Hall of Asian Mammals and Birds of the World. It is named for Gardner D. Stout, a former president of the museum, and was primarily organized by Dr. Walter A. Fairservis, a longtime museum archaeologist. Opened in 1980, Stout Hall is the museum’s largest anthropological hall and contains artifacts acquired by the museum between 1869 and the mid-1970s. Many famous expeditions sponsored by the museum are associated with the artifacts in the hall, including the Roy Chapman Andrews expeditions in Central Asia and the Vernay-Hopwood Chindwin expedition.\n\nStout Hall has two sections: Ancient Eurasia, a small section devoted to the evolution of human civilization in Eurasia, and Traditional Asia, a much larger section containing cultural artifacts from across the Asian continent. The latter section is organized to geographically correspond with two major trade routes of the Silk Road. Like many of the museum’s exhibition halls, the artifacts in Stout Hall are presented in a variety of ways including exhibits, miniature dioramas, and 5 full scale dioramas. Notable exhibits in the Ancient Eurasian section include reproductions from the archaeological sites of Teshik-Tash and Çatalhöyük, as well as a full size replica of a Hammurabi Stele. The Traditional Asia section contains areas devoted to major Asian countries, such as Japan, China, Tibet, and India, while also including a vast array of smaller Asian tribes including the Ainu, Semai, and Yakut.\n\nThe Hall of African Peoples is located behind Akeley Hall of African Mammals and underneath Sanford Hall of North American Birds. It is organized by the four major ecosystems found in Africa: River Valley, Grasslands, Forest-Woodland, and Desert. Each section presents artifacts and exhibits of the peoples native to the ecosystems throughout Africa. The hall contains three dioramas and notable exhibits include a large collection of spiritual costumes on display in the Forest-Woodland section. Uniting the sections of the hall is a multi-faceted comparison of African societies based on hunting and gathering, cultivation, and animal domestication. Each type of society is presented in a historical, political, spiritual, and ecological context. A small section of African diaspora spread by the slave trade is also included. Below is a brief list of some of the tribes and civilizations featured:\nRiver Valley:\nAncient Egyptians, Nubians, Kuba, Lozi\n\nGrasslands:\nPokot, Shilluk, Barawa\n\nForest-Woodland:\nYoruba, Kofyar, Mbuti\n\nDesert:\nAit Atta, Tuareg\n\nThe Hall of Mexico and Central America is a one-story hall located on the museum’s second floor behind Birds of the World and before the Hall of South American Peoples. It presents archaeological artifacts from a broad range of pre-Columbian civilizations that once existed across Middle America, including the Maya, Olmec, Zapotec, and Aztec. Because most of these civilizations did not leave behind recorded writing or have any contact with Western civilization, the overarching aim of the hall is to piece together what it is possible to know about them from the artifacts alone.\n\nThe museum has displayed pre-Columbian artifacts since its opening, only a short time after the discovery of the civilizations by archaeologists, with its first hall dedicated to the subject opening in 1899. As the museum’s collection grew, the hall underwent major renovations in 1944 and again in 1970 when it re-opened in its current form. Notable artifacts on display include the Kunz Axe and a full-scale replica of Tomb 104 from the Monte Albán archaeological site, originally displayed at the 1939 World’s Fair.\n\nThe hall opened in 1971, named the Hall of Pacific Peoples, and reopened as the Margaret Mead Hall of Pacific Peoples in 1984.\n\nThe Hall of Northwest Coast Indians is a one-story hall located on the museum's ground floor behind the Grand Gallery and in between Warburg and Spitzer Halls. Opened in 1900 under the name \"Jesup North Pacific Hall\", it is currently the oldest exhibition hall in the museum, though it has undergone many renovations in its history.The hall contains artifacts and exhibits of the tribes of the North Pacific Coast cultural region (Southern Alaska, Northern Washington, and a portion of British Columbia). Featured prominently in the hall are four \"House Posts\" from the Kwakwaka'wakw nation and murals by William S. Taylor depicting native life.\n\nArtifacts in the hall originated from three main sources. The earliest of these was a gift of Haida artifacts (including the now famous Haida canoe of the Grand Gallery) collected by John Wesley Powell and donated by Herbert Bishop in 1882. This was followed by the museum’s purchase of two collections of Tlingit artifacts collected by Lt. George T. Emmons in 1888 and 1894.\n\nThe remainder of the hall’s artifacts were collected during the famed Jesup North Pacific Expedition between 1897 and 1902. Led by influential anthropologist Franz Boas and financed by museum president Morris Ketchum Jesup, the expedition was the first for the museum’s Division of Anthropology and is now considered the, “foremost expedition in American anthropology”. Many famous ethnologists took part, including George Hunt, who secured the Kwakwaka’wakw House Posts that currently stand in the hall.\n\nAt the time of its opening, the Hall of Northwest Coast Indians was one of four halls dedicated to the native peoples of United States and Canada. It was originally organized in two sections, the first being a general area pertaining to all peoples of the region and the second a specialized area divided by tribe. This was a point of contention for Boas who wanted all artifacts in the hall to be associated with the proper tribe (much like it is currently organized), eventually leading to the dissolution of Boas’ relationship with the museum.\n\nOther tribes featured in the hall include: Coastal Salish, Nuu-chah-nulth (listed as Nootka), Tsimshian, and Nuxalk (listed as Bella Coola)\n\nThe primary focus of this hall is the North American Great Plains peoples as they were at the middle of the 19th Century, including depictions of Blackfeet (\"see also: Blackfoot Confederacy\"), Hidatsa, and Dakota cultures. Of particular interest is a Folsom point discovered in 1926 New Mexico, providing valuable evidence of early American colonization of the Americas.\n\nThis hall details the lives and technology of traditional Native American peoples in the woodland environments of eastern North America. Particular cultures exhibited include Cree, Mohegan, Ojibwe, and Iroquois.\n\nThe Bernard and Anne Spitzer Hall of Human Origins, formerly The Hall of Human Biology and Evolution, opened on February 10, 2007. Originally known under the name \"Hall of the Age of Man\", at the time of its original opening in 1921 it was the only major exhibition in the United States to present an in-depth investigation of human evolution. The displays traced the story of \"Homo sapiens\", illuminated the path of human evolution and examined the origins of human creativity.\n\nMany of the celebrated displays from the original hall can still be viewed in the present expanded format. These include life-size dioramas of our human predecessors \"Australopithecus afarensis\", \"Homo ergaster\", Neanderthal, and Cro-Magnon, showing each species demonstrating the behaviors and capabilities that scientists believe they were capable of. Also displayed are full-sized casts of important fossils, including the 3.2-million-year-old Lucy skeleton and the 1.7-million-year-old Turkana Boy, and \"Homo erectus\" specimens including a cast of Peking Man.\n\nThe hall also features replicas of ice age art found in the Dordogne region of southwestern France. The limestone carvings of horses were made nearly 26,000 years ago and are considered to represent some of the earliest artistic expression of humans.\n\nThe Arthur Ross Hall of Meteorites contains some of the finest specimens in the world including Ahnighito, a section of the 200 ton Cape York meteorite which was found at the location of the same name in Greenland. The meteorite's great weight—at 34 tons, it is the largest meteorite on display at any museum in the world—requires support by columns that extend through the floor and into the bedrock below the museum.\n\nThe hall also contains extra-solar nanodiamonds (diamonds with dimensions on the nanometer level) more than 5 billion years old. These were extracted from a meteorite sample through chemical means, and they are so small that a quadrillion of these fit into a volume smaller than a cubic centimeter.\n\nThe Harry Frank Guggenheim Hall of Minerals houses hundreds of unusual geological specimens. It adjoins the Morgan Memorial Hall of Gems showcasing many rare, and valuable gemstones.\nThe exhibit was designed by the architectural firm of Wm. F. Pedersen and Assoc. with Fred\nBookhardt in charge. Vincent Manson was the curator of the Mineralogy Department.\nThe exhibit took six years to design and build, 1970–1976. \"The New York Times\" architectural critic, Paul Goldberger, said, \"It is one of the finest museum installations that New York City or any city has seen in many years\".\n\nOn display are many renowned samples that are chosen from among the museum's more than 100,000 pieces. Included among these are the Patricia Emerald, a 632 carat (126 g), 12 sided stone. It was discovered during the 1920s in a mine high in the Colombian Andes and was named for the mine-owner's daughter. The Patricia is one of the few large gem-quality emeralds that remains uncut. Also on display is the 563 carat (113 g) Star of India, the largest, and most famous, star sapphire in the world. It was discovered over 300 years ago in Sri Lanka, most likely in the sands of ancient river beds from where star sapphires continue to be found today. It was donated to the museum by the financier J.P. Morgan. The thin, radiant, six pointed star, or asterism, is created by incoming light that reflects from needle-like crystals of the mineral rutile which are found within the sapphire. The Star of India is polished into the shape of a cabochon, or dome, to enhance the star's beauty. Among other notable specimens on display are a topaz, a 4.5 ton specimen of blue azurite/malachite ore that was found in the Copper Queen Mine in Bisbee, Arizona at the start of the 20th century; and a rare, 100 carat (20 g) orange-colored padparadschan sapphire from Sri Lanka, considered \"the mother of all pads.\" The collection also includes the Midnight Star, a 116.75-carat deep purplish-red star ruby, which was from Sri Lanka and was also donated by J.P. Morgan to the AMNH, like the Star of India. It was also donated to AMNH the same year the Star of India was donated to the AMNH, 1901.\n\nOn October 29, 1964, the Star of India, along with the Midnight Star, the DeLong Star Ruby, and the Eagle Diamond were all stolen from the museum. The burglars, Jack Roland \"Murph The Surf\" Murphy, and his two accomplices, Allen Dale Kuhn and Roger Frederick Clark, gained entrance by climbing through a bathroom window they had unlocked hours before the museum was closed. The Midnight Star and the DeLong Star Ruby were later recovered in Miami. A few weeks later, also in Miami, the Star of India was recovered from a locker in a bus station, but the Eagle Diamond was never found; it may have been recut or lost. Murphy, Kuhn, and Clark were all caught later on and were all sentenced to three years in jail, and they all were granted parole.\n\nThe David S. and Ruth L. Gottesman Hall of Planet Earth is a permanent hall devoted to the history of Earth, from accretion to the origin of life and contemporary human impacts on the planet. Several sections also discuss the studies of Earth systems, including geology, glaciology, atmospheric sciences, and volcanology.\n\nThe exhibit is famous for its large, touchable rock specimens. The hall features striking samples of banded iron and deformed conglomerate rocks, as well as granites, sandstones, lavas, and three black smokers.\n\nThe north section of the hall, which deals primarily with plate tectonics, is arranged to mimic the Earth's structure, with the core and mantle at the center and crustal features on the perimeter.\n\nMost of the museum's collections of mammalian and dinosaur fossils remain hidden from public view. They are kept in numerous storage areas located deep within the museum complex. Among these, the most significant storage facility is the ten story Childs Frick Building which stands within an inner courtyard of the museum. During construction of the Frick, giant cranes were employed to lift steel beams directly from the street, over the roof, and into the courtyard, in order to ensure that the classic museum façade remained undisturbed. The predicted great weight of the fossil bones led designers to add special steel reinforcement to the building's framework, as it now houses the largest collection of fossil mammals and dinosaurs in the world. These collections occupy the basement and lower seven floors of the Frick Building, while the top three floors contain laboratories and offices. It is inside this particular building that many of the museum's intensive research programs into vertebrate paleontology are carried out.\n\nOther areas of the museum contain repositories of life from the past. The Whale Bone Storage Room is a cavernous space in which powerful winches come down from the ceiling to move the giant fossil bones about. The museum attic upstairs includes even more storage facilities, such as the Elephant Room, while the tusk vault and boar vault are downstairs from the attic.\n\nThe great fossil collections that are open to public view occupy the entire fourth floor of the museum as well as a separate exhibit that is on permanent display in the Theodore Roosevelt Memorial Hall, the museum's main entrance. The fourth floor exhibits allow the visitor to trace the evolution of vertebrates by following a circuitous path that leads through several museum buildings. On the 77th street side of the museum the visitor begins in the Orientation Center and follows a carefully marked path, which takes the visitor along an evolutionary tree of life. As the tree \"branches\" the visitor is presented with the familial relationships among vertebrates. This evolutionary pathway is known as a cladogram.\n\nTo create a cladogram, scientists look for shared physical characteristics to determine the relatedness of different species. For instance, a cladogram will show a relationship between amphibians, mammals, turtles, lizards, and birds since these apparently disparate groups share the trait of having 'four limbs with movable joints surrounded by muscle', making them tetrapods. A group of related species such as the tetrapods is called a \"clade\". Within the tetrapod group only lizards and birds display yet another trait: \"two openings in the skull behind the eye\". Lizards and birds therefore represent a smaller, more closely related clade known as diapsids. In a cladogram the evolutionary appearance of a new trait for the first time is known as a \"node\". Throughout the fossil halls the nodes are carefully marked along the evolutionary path and these nodes alert us to the appearance of new traits representing whole new branches of the evolutionary tree. Species showing these traits are on display in alcoves on either side of the path. A video projection on the museum's fourth floor introduces visitors to the concept of the cladogram, and is popular among children and adults alike.\n\nMany of the fossils on display represent unique and historic pieces that were collected during the museum's golden era of worldwide expeditions (1880s to 1930s). On a smaller scale, expeditions continue into the present and have resulted in additions to the collections from Vietnam, Madagascar, South America, and central and eastern Africa.\n\nThe 4th floor includes the following halls:\n\nThe many outstanding fossils on display include, among others:\n\nA \"Triceratops\" and a \"Stegosaurus\" are also both on display, among many other specimens.\n\nBesides the fossils in museum display, many specimens are stored in the collections available for scientists. Those include important specimens such as complete diplodocid skull, tyrannosaurid teeth, sauropod vertebrae, and many holotype.\n\nThe Hayden Planetarium, connected to the museum, is now part of the Rose Center for Earth and Space, housed in a glass cube containing the spherical Space Theater, designed by James Stewart Polshek. The Heilbrun Cosmic Pathway is one of the most popular exhibits in the Rose Center, which opened February 19, 2000.\n\nThe original Hayden Planetarium was founded in 1933 with a donation by philanthropist Charles Hayden. Opened in 1935, it was demolished and replaced in 2000 by the $210 million Frederick Phineas and Sandra Priest Rose Center for Earth and Space. Designed by James Stewart Polshek, the new building consists of a six-story high glass cube enclosing a illuminated sphere that appears to float—although it is actually supported by truss work. James Polshek has referred to his work as a \"cosmic cathedral\". The Rose Center and its adjacent plaza, both located on the north facade of the museum, are regarded as some of Manhattan's most outstanding recent architectural additions. The facility encloses of research, education, and exhibition space as well as the Hayden planetarium. Also located in the facility is the Department of Astrophysics, the newest academic research department in the museum. Neil DeGrasse Tyson is the director of the Hayden Planetarium. Further, Polshek designed the Weston Pavilion, a high transparent structure of \"water white\" glass along the museum's west facade. This structure, a small companion piece to the Rose Center, offers a new entry way to the museum as well as opening further exhibition space for astronomically related objects. The planetarium's former magazine, \"The Sky\", merged with \"The Telescope\", to become the astronomy magazine \"Sky & Telescope\".\n\nTom Hanks provided the voice-over for the first planetarium show during the opening of the new Rose Center for Earth & Space in the Hayden Planetarium in 2000. Since then such celebrities as Whoopi Goldberg, Robert Redford, Harrison Ford and Maya Angelou have been featured.\n\nFounded in 1869, the AMNH Exhibitions Lab has since produced thousands of installations. The department is notable for its integration of new scientific research into immersive art and multimedia presentations. In addition to the famous dioramas at its home museum and the Rose Center for Earth and Space, the lab has also produced international exhibitions and software such as the Digital Universe Atlas.\n\nThe exhibitions team currently consists of over sixty artists, writers, preparators, designers and programmers. The department is responsible for the creation of two to three exhibits per year. These extensive shows typically travel nationally to sister natural history museums. They have produced, among others, the first exhibits to discuss Darwinian evolution, human-induced climate change and the mesozoic mass extinction via asteroid.\n\nThe Research Library is open to staff and public visitors, and is located on the fourth floor of the museum.\n\nThe Library collects materials covering such subjects as mammalogy, earth and planetary science, astronomy and astrophysics, anthropology, entomology, herpetology, ichthyology, paleontology, ethology, ornithology, mineralogy, invertebrates, systematics, ecology, oceanography, conchology, exploration and travel, history of science, museology, bibliography, genomics, and peripheral biological sciences. The collection is rich in retrospective materials — some going back to the 15th century — that are difficult to find elsewhere.\n\nIn its early years, the Library expanded its collection mostly through such gifts as the John C. Jay conchological library, the Carson Brevoort library on fishes and general zoology, the ornithological library of Daniel Giraud Elliot, the Harry Edwards entomological library, the Hugh Jewett collection of voyages and travel and the Jules Marcou geology collection. In 1903 the American Ethnological Society deposited its library in the museum and in 1905 the New York Academy of Sciences followed suit by transferring its collection of 10,000 volumes.\n\nToday, the Library's collections contain over 550,000 volumes of monographs, serials, pamphlets, reprints, microforms, and original illustrations, as well as film, photographic, archives and manuscripts, fine art, memorabilia and rare book collections.\n\nThe new Library was designed by the firm Roche-Dinkeloo in 1992. The space is 55,000-sq ft and includes five different 'conservation zones', ranging from the 50-person reading room and public offices, to temperature and humidity controlled rooms.\n\n\nThe museum has a scientific staff of more than 225, and sponsors over 120 special field expeditions each year. Many of the fossils on display represent unique and historic pieces that were collected during the museum's golden era of worldwide expeditions (1880s to 1930s). Examples of some of these expeditions, financed in whole or part by the AMNH are: Jesup North Pacific Expedition, the Whitney South Seas Expedition, the Roosevelt–Rondon Scientific Expedition, the Crocker Land Expedition, and the expeditions to Madagascar and New Guinea by Richard Archbold. On a smaller scale, expeditions continue into the present. The museum also publishes several peer-reviewed journals, including the \"Bulletin of the American Museum of Natural History\". In 1976, animal rights activist Henry Spira led a campaign against vivisection on cats that the American Museum of Natural History had been conducting for 20 years, intended to research the impact of certain types of mutilation on the sex lives of cats. The museum halted the research in 1977.\n\nAMNH's education programs include outreach to schools in New York City by the Moveable Museum.\n\nAdditionally, the Museum itself offers a wide variety of educational programs, camps, and classes for students from pre-K to post-graduate levels. Notably, the Museum sponsors the Lang Science Program, a comprehensive 5th-12th grade research and science education program, and the Science Research Mentorship Program (SRMP), among the most prestigious paid internships in NYC, in which pairs of students conduct a full year of intensive original research with an AMNH scientist.\n\nThe AMNH offers a Master of Arts in Science Teaching and a PhD in Comparative Biology.\n\nOn October 23, 2006, the museum launched the Richard Gilder Graduate School, which offers a PhD in Comparative Biology, becoming the first American museum in the United States to award doctoral degrees in its own name. Accredited in 2009, in 2011 the graduate school had 11 students enrolled, who work closely with curators and they have access to the collections. The first seven graduates to complete the program were awarded their degrees on September 30, 2013. The dean of the graduate school is AMNH paleontologist John J. Flynn, and the namesake and major benefactor is Richard Gilder.\n\nThe museum is located at 79th Street and Central Park West, accessible via the of the New York City Subway. There is a low-level floor direct access into the museum via the 81st Street – Museum of Natural History subway station on the IND Eighth Avenue Line at the south end of the upper platform (where uptown trains arrive).\n\nOn a pedestal outside the museum's Columbus Avenue entrance is a stainless steel time capsule, which was created after a design competition that was won by Santiago Calatrava. The capsule was sealed at the beginning of 2000, to mark the beginning of the 3rd millennium. It takes the form of a folded saddle-shaped volume, symmetrical on multiple axes, that explores formal properties of folded spherical frames. Calatrava described it as \"a flower\". The plan is that the capsule will be opened in the year 3000.\n\nThe museum is situated in a city park known as \"Theodore Roosevelt Park\". The park extends from Central Park West to Columbus Avenue, and from West 77th Street to West 81st Street. Theodore Roosevelt Park contains park benches, gardens and lawns, and also a dog run.\n\n\n\n\n\n\"The American Museum of Natural History: An Introduction\" was printed in 1972. The book was a series of photos found in the book, taken around 1972.\n\n"}
{"id": "37278829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37278829", "title": "Barda Balka", "text": "Barda Balka\n\nBarda Balka is an archeological site near the Little Zab and Chamchamal in the north of modern-day Iraq.\n\nThe site was discovered on a hilltop in 1949 by Sayid Fuad Safar and Naji al-Asil from the Directorate General of Antiquities, Iraq. It was later excavated by Bruce Howe and Herbert E. Wright in 1951. Stone tools were found amongst a particular layer of Pleistocene gravels that dated to the late Acheulean period. The tools included pebble tools, bifaces and lithic flakes that were suggested to be amongst the oldest evidence of human occupation in Iraq. They were found comparable with tools known to have been made around eighty thousand years ago.\n\nSimilar material was found in other locations around the Chemchemal valley.\n\nA Neolithic megalith is also located at the centre of the site around which the tools were found.\n\n"}
{"id": "29439493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29439493", "title": "Bibliography of Jersey", "text": "Bibliography of Jersey\n\nThis is a list of books in the English language which deal with Jersey and its geography, history, inhabitants, culture, biota, etc.\n\n\nLa Haule Books published a limited edition series of at least 38 Jersey Heritage Editions in the 1980s and 1990s. (The numbers in brackets below are the numbers of copies printed).\n\n"}
{"id": "16164694", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16164694", "title": "Blackout gag", "text": "Blackout gag\n\nA blackout gag is a kind of joke in broad, rapid-fire slapstick comedy. The term is derived from burlesque and vaudeville, when the lights were quickly turned off after the punchline of a joke to accentuate it and/or allow for audience laughter. It may use a shock value to define the joke, and may not be initially noticeable to all viewers if it is a very fast joke.\n\nIt is distinguished from an iris shot, frequently used in the silent film era, where a black circle closes to end a scene.\n\nThe term \"blackout gag\" can also apply to fast-paced TV or film comedy, such as \"Rowan & Martin's Laugh-In\", where there may not literally be a blackout, but a quick cut to the next gag.\n"}
{"id": "45718698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45718698", "title": "Break Away (organization)", "text": "Break Away (organization)\n\nBreak Away is a national nonprofit organization that promotes the development of quality alternative break programs through training, assisting, and connecting campuses and communities. The organization has chapters on about 200 college campuses throughout the United States. Break Away holds training sessions for directors at each chapter school, who then train the student leaders and participants. \nAn alternative break consists of a group of college students who serve a community with a focus on a specific social issue for a specific amount of time, whether it is a weekend or a week. Most trips are weeklong trips, with the majority over college spring breaks. 60% of trips occur over spring breaks and 15% occur over winter breaks. The social issue pertains to the community to which the group goes. Break Away emphasizes service-learning in which group members learn about the community they will be serving and how to avoid voluntourism. Break Away encourages student leaders, with each trip consisting of student leaders, student participants, a partner organization, and most of the time, a learning partner. By emphasizing the Active Citizenship Continuum and the Eight Components of a Quality Alternative Break, Break Away hopes to produce valuable alternative breaks, which will then lead participants to become more aware and active in their community. Break Away has about 200 chapter schools, more than 500 nonprofit partnerships, and thousands of participants and alumni worldwide. Just in 2014, there were a total of 1,551 trips with over 20,000 participants, which equates to over 1 million hours of service. Of the 1,551 trips in 2014, 1,334 were domestic and 251 were international.\n\nTwo students, Michael Magevney and Laura Mann, founded Break Away in June 1991 at Vanderbilt University after the creation of Alternative Spring Break on the campus in 1987. While still at Vanderbilt University, the organization was funded by the chancellor’s discretionary fund. In 2000, the organization expanded to Florida State University where it was housed by the Center for Civic Education and Service. In 2007, Break Away headquarters moved to Atlanta, Georgia where it shared a space with Hands On Network/Points of Light, which also had a goal of creating volunteer opportunities but for recent college graduates and alternative break alumni. The growth of Break Away accelerated considerably, around 20%, in the mid-2000s after Hurricane Katrina in the Gulf Coast. In 2010, the organization saw another acceleration, this time in terms of international trips. With the early 2010 earthquake in Haiti, the organization created the Haiti Compact with five American colleges – American University, the College of William and Mary, Indiana University, Loyola Marymount University, and the University of Maryland – which organized trips to the country. The Compact sought to develop the best practice for international alternative breaks, specifically in aiding participants in overcoming potential harm to the community, while also increasing service-learning. The College of William and Mary originally committed to serving in Haiti for four years following the 2010 earthquake, but since they have extended it to eight.\n\nThe organization has an annual budget of $160,000, which is mainly funded through chapter membership dues. Each year, the organization holds about 20 two-day retreats on college campuses to educate on fundraising, conflict resolution, and group building, which are attended by chapter directors and leaders. They also hold Alternative Break Citizen Schools, ABCs, which are weeklong leadership training sessions for students who lead their college’s Break Away chapter.\n\nThe Active Citizen Continuum is the driving force behind Break Away. The goal for each person is to become an Active Citizen, which is achieved by going through each of the steps. Every person begins as a Member, someone who is not concerned with their role in social problems. A Member then becomes a Volunteer, someone who is well intentioned but not well educated about social issues, through exposure. That Volunteer starts to get an understanding for a particular social issue and becomes a Conscientious Citizen, someone who is concerned with discovering root causes and asks why. Finally, that Conscientious Citizen begins to take action and becomes an Active Citizen, someone who prioritizes the community and social issue into their values and life choices. The aim for the Active Citizen Continuum is to create citizens that are aware of social issues in the world and who commit to resolving those issues.\n\nAll components are equally important in order to create the best alternative break trips as possible.\n\nOne of Break Away’s goals is to avoid voluntourism or volunteer tourism, which is a form of tourism in which travelers participate in volunteer work. By incorporating the service-learning aspect of alternative breaks, participants are able to learn about the community they will be serving prior to their arrival, which decreases the chances of tourism. Voluntourism can have the opposite effect of its intended purpose of helping a community, instead, it has been shown to generate potential harm to a community. For instance, in an orphanage in Cambodia, the presence of wealthy volunteers has slowed the market for adopting the orphans in the town. Through Break Away, participants are able to learn about the culture and the social issues within a specific community before their departure, which allows them to understand the community better.\n\nWith around 200 chapters countrywide, Break Away has two levels of membership. The first level of membership is Associate, which has an annual fee of $350 and includes SiteBank access, ongoing Break Away consultation, access to resources, listing as an Associate Chapter, forum access, and 10% discount on trainings and products. The highest level of membership is Advantage, which is $700 per year and includes everything that Associate offers, as well as listing as an Advantage Chapter, 20% discount on trainings and products and one free Alternative Break Citizen School registration.\n\n"}
{"id": "56146439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56146439", "title": "Byron's letters", "text": "Byron's letters\n\nThe letters of Lord Byron, of which about 3,000 are known, range in date from 1798, when Byron was 10 years old, to 9 April 1824, a few days before he died. They have long received extraordinary critical praise for their wit, spontaneity and sincerity. Many rate Byron as the greatest letter-writer in English literature, and consider his letters comparable or superior to his poems as literary achievements. They have also been called \"one of the three great informal autobiographies in English\", alongside the diaries of Samuel Pepys and James Boswell. Their literary value is reflected in the huge prices collectors will pay for them; in 2009 a sequence of 15 letters to his friend Francis Hodgson was sold at auction for almost £280,000.\n\nAlthough in his letters Byron adapted his style and stance to his different correspondents, they all share an unstudied, unliterary appearance, an \"offhand eloquence\", which at its best resembles the talk of a conversationalist of genius. He never wrote to produce an effect. Lord Macaulay, in one of his essays, wrote that Byron's letters \"are less affected than those of Pope and Walpole, [and] have more matter in them than those of Cowper\"; if literary art was employed it was \"that highest art which cannot be distinguished from nature\". All are deeply imbued with his volatile and indefinable personality, which, for those who find his personality offensive, can be something of a disadvantage. They are marked by rapid alternations of mood, by common sense, wit, intellect and sincerity, and by a cool and unshakeable scepticism. They fascinate the reader through the huge zest for life they manifest. They share with his poems the characteristics of vigour and movement. \"Everything is said without reserve, without attenuation, savagely\", wrote André Maurois; they \"[sweep] the reader along in an irresistible onrush\". They repeat words as if they were rhymes, and have rhythms that resemble those of the poems apart from being more varied. They share the outlook on life of Byron's more realistic poems, like \"Beppo\", \"Don Juan\" and \"The Vision of Judgment\", rather than the darkly romantic \"Childe Harold\", \"Manfred\" and \"The Corsair\".\n\nAlthough Byron's life was cut short at the age of only 36, almost 3000 letters of his are known. There are three main reasons why that number is so large: one is simply the pleasure Byron took in composing them; another is the fact that Byron spent many years in self-imposed exile in Italy and Greece, which made it necessary for him to write to keep in touch with his friends in England; and finally, the sensational success of \"Childe Harold's Pilgrimage\" when Byron was only 23 turned him into a national and then international celebrity, making his letters valuable relics to be collected rather than thrown away.\n\nByron's correspondents can be divided up into successive groups. As a boy he wrote to his mother, his half-sister Augusta, and the family lawyer John Hanson. At Southwell there were John Pigot and his sister Elizabeth. Byron's friends at college included Scrope Davies, John Cam Hobhouse and Francis Hodgson. With the publication of \"Childe Harold\" he became known to a new circle, the poets Robert Charles Dallas, Thomas Moore and Samuel Rogers, along with his banker Douglas Kinnaird and his publisher John Murray. Then there were the women who fell in love with him: Lady Caroline Lamb, Lady Frances Webster, Lady Oxford, and his future wife Annabella Milbancke; also his confidante Lady Melbourne. A new group of friends in Switzerland included the poet Percy Bysshe Shelley, Shelley's wife Mary and sister-in-law Claire Clairmont. Members of the Shelley circle with whom Byron corresponded included Thomas Medwin, Edward Williams and his common-law wife Jane, Edward John Trelawny, and the poet Leigh Hunt. In Venice there were Byron's lover Teresa Guiccioli, her brother Gamba and husband Count Guiccioli, the British consul Richard Belgrave Hoppner, and Alexander Scott. Finally, Byron's Greek adventure brought him into contact with a new circle: the rebel leader Prince Mavrokordatos, the banker Samuel Barff, and members of the London Philhellenic Committee, including Colonel Leicester Stanhope.\n\nIn 1830, 6 years after his death, about 560 of Byron's letters were published by his friend Thomas Moore under the title \"Letters and Journals of Lord Byron: With Notices of his Life\". The next edition of the letters and journals appeared in six volumes in 1898-1901, edited by R. E. Prothero as part of a 13-volume \"Works\". Prothero included nearly 1200 letters, conscientiously edited, though like Moore he excised all passages likely to offend 19th-century sensibilities. A collection of about 350 unpublished letters was bequeathed by John Hobhouse's daughter Lady Dorchester to John Murray, who published them as \"Lord Byron’s Correspondence\" in 1922, in two volumes, though yet again in a bowdlerized form. In 1950 Peter Quennell produced a selection of the letters, called \"Byron: A Self-Portrait\", of which 50 letters had not up to that point been published. In 1966 the American literary scholar Leslie A. Marchand, having written a magisterial biography of Byron, began work on editing his letters. The result, \"Byron's Letters and Journals\", appeared in 11 volumes plus an index volume between 1973 and 1982, with a final supplementary volume in 1994. He was assisted in his work by the edition's publisher, John Murray VI, grandson of the earlier editor and great-great-grandson of Byron's own publisher. Marchand's work included about 3000 letters, and it remains the reference edition. The first two volumes won the Modern Language Association's James Russell Lowell Prize for 1974, the judges calling it \"an outstanding achievement in humane editing\". In 1982 he followed this up with a one-volume selection of Byron's letters and journals. In 2015 Richard Lansdown published another selection, which differed from Marchand's in being about twice the size and in attempting to cover Byron's whole life rather than just picking out the best letters. Jeffery Vail called it \"engrossing, moving, hilarious, and sometimes heartbreaking\", and preferred it to the Marchand selection.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30026349", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30026349", "title": "Californians for Population Stabilization", "text": "Californians for Population Stabilization\n\nCalifornians for Population Stabilization (CAPS) is a non-profit California organization founded in 1986 which works to \"preserve California's future through the stabilization of our state's human population.\" CAPS was the former branch of the Zero Population Growth (ZPG) organization. It supports \"replacement-level\" immigration, and does so \"without regard to race, ethnicity, or national origin.\"\n\nIts aim is to help advance state policies and programs designed to stabilize the population at a level which they feel \"will preserve a good quality of life for all Californians.\" It asserts that the current growth of population is \"unsustainable,\" and contributes to a growing strain on the environment and infrastructure. CAPS is listed in the annual \"Conservation Directory\", published by the National Wildlife Federation, as among the numerous organizations supporting conservation and preserving the natural environment in California.\n\nThe high unemployment rate in California is one of CAPS's key worries. Dick Schneider, Chairman of the Board of CAPS, has stated that the national government is \"admitting more new, legal immigrants every month than the number of new jobs our economy is creating.\" According to CAPS, more legal immigrants settle in California than any other state, despite having unemployment rates as high as 18% in some parts of the state. \n\nCAPS is equally concerned with the cost of educating immigrants. They stated, \"California cannot be expected to educate millions of children brought here by untold numbers of illegal aliens and millions of legal immigrants. Schools have reached the crisis point.\" The organization also supports work by groups such as \"English First,\" whose 140,000 members oppose costly bilingual education.\n\nThe organization stresses its belief that both legal and illegal immigration are the cause of \"California's runaway population growth.\" According to author Edward C. Hartman, CAPS is \"determined to fill the gap created by the failure of conventional environmental organizations\" that do not actively oppose population growth in America. The organization is unique in that many of its board members have held leadership positions in national environmental organizations. It relies on various sources to reach the public, including television and radio ads, public events with notable speakers, articles and commentaries, and at various speaking engagements. A CAPS-sponsored TV ad ran on MSNBC during the Republican presidential debate in September, 2011.\n\nCAPS supports immigration reduction. In 1993, CAPS filed a lawsuit against Hewlett Packard alleging that HP was violating California labor laws and paid residents of India who came to the U.S. below-market wages as contract programmers. The lawsuit was first publicized on CBS's \"60 Minutes,\" and CAPS claimed that such wage practices would drive down wages for U.S. workers. CAPS ultimately lost the lawsuit.\n\n"}
{"id": "53643626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53643626", "title": "Conservation and restoration of insect specimens", "text": "Conservation and restoration of insect specimens\n\nThe conservation and restoration of insect specimens is the process of caring for and preserving insects as a part of a collection. Conservation concerns begin at collection and continue through preparation, storage, examination, documentation, research and treatment when restoration is needed.\n\nInsect collecting can be done in many different ways depending on the kind of insects being collected and from which habitats. Both hobbyists and professional entomologist have found particular ways to collect with minimal damage to their specimens. Following established techniques helps begin the conservation of insect specimens from the beginning by eliminating as much potential damage as possible. It must be done delicately to ensure that neither the collector nor the live insect itself will cause harm to the distinctive features such as wings, legs and antennae that give purpose to the collection. Special collection nets, traps and techniques must be utilized in consideration of how easily breakage can happen. A kill jar is often used to immediately immobilize the insect before it can damage itself.\n\nThe way an insect specimen is prepared is often the first step in their conservation. They have to be carefully prepared with the appropriate methods depending on their size, anatomy, and potentially delicate features to ensure they will not break before they begin their role as a specimen available for study, research and display. Some specimens must be prepared using a dry method and others with liquid to preserve. The choice made will preserve key features necessary for identification and represent the insect's living form as closely as possible.\n\nThe process of pinning insect specimens is a dry method to preserve and display collections and requires special entomological equipment to accomplish effectively. It is used primarily for hard-bodied, medium to large specimens and is beneficial for easier study and color preservation. Flies and butterflies, though they are partially soft-bodied, are also best preserved through pinning because when preserved in fluid their hairs and/or scales will either clot or fall off. Some smaller specimens may still be pinned use minuten pins, which are much thinner, to avoid breakage. Insects are pinned on foam block or specialized pinning blocks that provide support for the limbs while drying and may be moved to another specialized, protected display case after they have dried completely, at which point they will be more brittle. The pin is most often driven through the thorax of the insect just to the right of the mid-line to preserve the appearance of at least one side should any damage occur from pinning. The exception is butterflies, dragonflies and damselflies, which are pinned through the middle of the thorax. Enough of the pin must be left both above and below the specimen to allow for labeling below and handling.\nCarding is used when pinning would destroy too much of the specimen because its size is quite small. A triangular point is cut from acid free card to ensure best conservation practice because it comes in direct contact with the specimen. A pin is then driven through the broad side of the point for mounting. A soluble glue that can be removed with solvents when necessary is used to adhere the right side of the thorax of the specimen to the point opposite the pinned side. The point is sometimes bent to allow the specimen to present in the same position as normally pinned specimens.\n\nA wet specimen is a specimen preserved in fluid, often 70% alcohol. Specimens that would receive this preservation technique are usually soft-bodied, such as caterpillars, larva, and spiders because of their soft abdomens. This is done to minimize shriveling allowing the identifying characteristics to be preserved as true to life as possible. Hard-bodied insects may also be preserved temporarily in alcohol before pinning.\n\nSlides of very small insects are also kept as part of insect collections.\n\nThe American Institute for Conservation (AIC) describes in their Code of Ethics the aspects of conservation to include: preventive conservation, examination, documentation, treatment, research and education. Each of these areas also apply to the conservation and restoration of insect specimens.\n\nInsect collections may suffer multiple types of degradation including fading colors from light exposure, mold growth from improper humidity and temperature levels, and infestations from pests that feed on dried insect, but much of this is avoidable when proper preventive conservation practices are followed.\n\nIn addition to maintaining a clean storage environment for specimens, it is sometimes necessary to clean the specimens themselves. Cleaning incredibly delicate and brittle dry insect specimens is done carefully and methodically. The conservator chooses the appropriate method based on the kind of insect that needs cleaning and how robust it is. Cleaning tools vary widely, but generally clean watercolor brushes are used to gently dust the specimens, sometimes with a stereo microscope for very small specimens, warm water and/or alcohol baths used with or without an ultrasonic cleaner, and lens blowers to gently blow away dust, or dry the specimen after a cleansing bath.\n\nA common way to prevent damage from pests intent to feed on insect specimens and dust accumulation in a collection is to keep them in sealed boxes or cabinets. When properly sealed, they can also aid in preventing damages cause by relative humidity (RH) and temperature fluctuations. Wet specimens are kept in separate vials or jars and in a secure cabinet, tray or shelf. Fluid levels are regularly monitored to ensure specimens are completely immersed in fluid, though a well-sealed jar or vial will prevent excessive evaporation.\n\nProper handling for insect specimens prevents the excessive breaking of legs, antennae and other body parts that could then easily be lost. Curved forceps may be used to allow more precision and less chance of the brittle specimen coming in contact with the handler. The handler picks up the specimen by the pin, which is placed with enough space below the specimen for the handler to put in the pinning block and enough space above to grip without touching the specimen.\nIntegrated pest management (IPM) is a specialized modern pest control used in museums. All IPM systems begin with regular sanitation and monitoring of collections to detect castings from various pests, and checking insect traps laid out to capture and identify which pests are present. Some pests, such as carpet beetles and flour beetles, feed on dried insects. When an infestation is present, treatment may be necessary. Freezing is commonly used to rid insect collections of pests. Alternatively, inert gases may be used for an anoxic fumigation - depriving the pests of oxygen to exterminate, and in extreme cases chemical fumigation proven to be safe for collections and people may be used.\n\nAssessing the condition of an insect collection is done regularly and the results are recorded accordingly. The conservator observes the specimens in high detail remarking all areas of damage, or altered states of the specimen. Tools used during this process may include a strong light source, magnifying glass and handling tools that allow the conservator to pick up the specimen from the pin without touching it. The observations made during the examination process result in the conclusions drawn for a treatment plan if necessary. The conservator is knowledgeable of the kinds of deterioration to look for specific to insect specimens.\n\n\nThe documentation of insect specimens is carried out in many different aspects of a specimen's existence. Documented information begins with the capture of an insect. The collector records information about capture method, place and date of capture and any relevant habitat information in field notes. This information is then transferred to labels and collection records. The documentation path then continues with every recorded observation or treatment the specimen receives. Killing agents, preservation agents, rehydrating agents, and fumigants are all important to record. This then informs any future decisions for conservation actions.\n\nAs a minimum, labels contain the place and date of collection, and the identification of genus and species. On pinned insects, the labels are likewise pinned with the space left under the specimen on the same pin. There are various ways to write the information on labels, but an ink that will not fade or come off in liquid is generally used. The paper is ideally 100% cotton or linen rag to avoid yellowing or embrittlement of the paper as it ages.\nWith improvements in digital photography and web resources, many natural history museums have begun a new kind of documentation through digitization, bringing high quality images and associated information to anyone with access to the Internet. Large databases can hold vast amounts of information improving research efforts.\n\nScientific illustration of insects is an older technique used to preserve information about collected insects. It visually documents insects, and unlike photography, can add intellectual ideas about anatomy and behavior of the insect through artists' renditions. Scientifically informed observation of specimens combined with technical and aesthetic skill yields the highly detailed illustrations necessary for the documentation of each species that is illustrated.\n\nThis area of insect specimen documentation comes after the close examination of specimens by conservators. The conservator records all of the visual information about the specimen that can be gleaned from detailed inspection. Conclusions are drawn from inspection and potential treatments are also documented to inform researchers and future conservators. \nResearching the collections of insects provides important information that develops knowledge about ecology, human health and crops. Well-kept records aid the researcher in identifying whether there are differences in an observed specimen because of damages, treatments or deterioration. Research of the insect collections in museums can lead to new discoveries of species, and provide an important historical resource.\n\nOnce a close observation reveals what issues are present in insect collections, the conservator makes a decision on actions to be taken. It is highly preferable that any treatment applied be reversible or done with little risk to the specimen. For example, broken limbs may be glued back on, which has traditionally been done with white glue. The advantage to white glue being that it is removable in warm water. Another common problem is pest infestation. When dried insect collections have suffered an infestation, the affected specimens can be frozen or sealed with inert gases to kill the pests without harming the specimens. Other treatments might include simply refilling wet specimens' jars with alcohol to ensure the specimens are completely submerged, cleaning specimens of dust and debris, or repositioning specimens for display or research. In the case that a specimen needs to be repositioned, the conservator will \"relax\" the specimen in a jar with a rehydrating substrate to move the limbs without breaking them. The technique used will vary among conservators. Some use a relaxing jar that the specimen is left in for days with the substrate of choice, others may choose to use a warm water bath with a drop of detergent. Whatever treatments are used are diligently documented.\n\nConservation of insect specimens is done in large part to preserve the information for the public. The display of collections in museums and their interpretation offer one avenue that accomplishes this effort. However, websites offer a unique opportunity to disseminate information to a broad audience with layers of information to give general information or to provide depth where desired. These websites are often also provided by museums and their collections. Below is a list of some major educational endeavors with interests in insect specimens.\n\n"}
{"id": "24701084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24701084", "title": "Crosslinguistic influence", "text": "Crosslinguistic influence\n\nCrosslinguistic influence (CLI) refers to the different ways in which one language can affect another within an individual speaker. It typically involves two languages that can affect one another in a bilingual speaker.  An example of CLI is the influence of Korean on a Korean native speaker who is learning Japanese or French. Less typically, it could also refer to an interaction between different dialects in the mind of a monolingual speaker. CLI can be observed across subsystems of languages including pragmatics, semantics, syntax, morphology, phonology, phonetics, and orthography. Discussed further in this article are particular subcategories of CLI—transfer, attrition, the complementarity principle, and additional theories.\n\nThe question of how languages influence one another within a bilingual individual can be addressed both with respect to mature bilinguals and with respect to bilingual language acquisition. With respect to bilingual language acquisition in children, there are several hypotheses that examine the internal representation of bilinguals' languages. Volterra and Taeschner proposed the \"Single System Hypothesis,\" which states that children start out with one single system that develops into two systems. This hypothesis proposed that bilingual children go through three stages of acquisition.\nIn response to the \"Single System Hypothesis\", a different hypothesis developed regarding the idea of two separate language systems from the very beginning. It was based on evidence of monolinguals and bilinguals reaching the same milestones at approximately the same stage of development. For example, bilingual and monolingual children go through identical patterns of grammar development. This hypothesis, called the \"Separate Development Hypothesis\", held the notion that the bilinguals acquiring two languages would internalize and acquire the two languages separately. Evidence for this hypothesis comes from lack of transfer and lack of acceleration. Transfer is a grammatical property of one language used in another language. Acceleration is the acquisition of a feature in language A facilitating the acquisition of a feature in language B. In a study of Dutch-English bilingual children, there were no instances of transfer across elements of morphology and syntactic development, indicating that the two languages developed separately from each other. In addition, in a study of French-English bilingual children, there were no instances of acceleration because finiteness appeared much earlier in French than it did in English, suggesting that there was no facilitation of the acquisition of finiteness in English by acquisition in French. Under this hypothesis, bilingual acquisition would be equivalent to monolingual children acquiring the particular languages.\n\nIn response to both the previous hypotheses mentioned, the \"Interdependent Development Hypothesis\" emerged with the idea that there is some sort of interaction between the two language systems in acquisition. It proposed that there is no single language system, but the language systems are not completely separate either. This hypothesis is also known as the \"Crosslinguistic Hypothesis\", developed by Hulk and Müller. The \"Crosslinguistic Hypothesis\" states that influence will occur in bilingual acquisition in areas of particular difficulty, even for monolingual native language acquisition. It re-examined the extent of the differentiation of the language systems due to the interaction in difficult areas of bilingual acquisition. Evidence for this hypothesis comes from delay, acceleration, and transfer in particular areas of bilingual language acquisition. Delay is the acquisition of a property of language A later than normally expected because of the acquisition of language B. CLI is seen when the child has a dominant language, such as Cantonese influencing English when Cantonese is the dominant language, and it will only occur in certain domains. Below are the two proposals represented in the \"Crosslinguistic Hypothesis\" where CLI may occur.\nSince the development of the \"Crosslinguistic Hypothesis\", much research has contributed to the understanding of CLI in areas of structural overlap, directionality, dominance, interfaces, the role of input, and the role of processing and production.\n\nIn linguistics, language transfer is defined by behaviorist psychologists as the subconscious use of behaviors from one language in another. In the Applied Linguistics field, it is also known as exhibiting knowledge of a native or dominant language (L1) in one that is being learned (L2). Transfer occurs in various language-related settings, such as acquiring a new language and when two languages or two dialects come into contact. Transfer may depend on how similar the two languages are and the intensity of the conversational setting. Transfer is more likely to happen if the two languages are in the same language family. It also occurs more at the beginning stages of L2 acquisition, when the grammar and lexicon are less developed. As the speaker's L2 proficiency increases, they will experience less transfer.\n\nJacquelyn Schachter (1992) argues that transfer is not a process at all, but that it is improperly named. She described transfer as \"an unnecessary carryover from the heyday of behaviorism.\" In her view, transfer is more of a constraint on the L2 learners' judgments about the constructions of the acquired L2 language. Schachter stated, \"It is both a facilitating and a limiting condition on the hypothesis testing process, but it is not in and of itself a process.\"\n\nLanguage transfer can be positive or negative. Transfer between similar languages often yields correct production in the new language because the systems of both languages are similar. This correct production would be considered positive transfer. An example involves a Spanish speaker (L1) who is acquiring Catalan (L2). Because the languages are so similar, the speaker could rely on their knowledge of Spanish when learning certain Catalan grammatical features and pronunciation. However, the two languages are distinct enough that the speaker’s knowledge of Spanish could potentially interfere with learning Catalan properly.\n\nNegative transfer (Interference) occurs when there are little to no similarities between the L1 and L2. It is when errors and avoidance are more likely to occur in the L2. The types of errors that result from this type of transfer are underproduction, overproduction, miscomprehension, and production errors, such as substitution, calques, under/overdifferentiation and hypercorrection.\n\nUnderproduction as explained by Schachter (1974), is a strategy used by L2 learners to avoid producing errors when using structures, sounds, or words which they are not confident about in the L2. Avoidance is a complex phenomenon and experts do not agree on its causes or exactly what it is. For example, Hebrew speakers acquiring English, may understand how the passive voice, 'a cake is made', works, but may prefer active voice, 'I make a cake,' thus avoiding the passive construction. Kellerman (1992) distinguishes three types of avoidance: (1) learners of the L2 make anticipations or know there is a problem with their construction and have a vague idea of the target construction, (2) the target is known by the L1 speaker, but it is too difficult to use in given circumstances; such as conversational topics that the L1 speaker may have a deficiency in or (3), the L1 speaker has the knowledge to correctly produce and use the L2 structure but is unwilling to use it because it goes against the norms of their behavior.\n\nOverproduction refers to an L2 learner producing certain structures within the L2 with a higher frequency than native speakers of that language. In a study by Schachter and Rutherford (1979), they found that Chinese and Japanese speakers who wrote English sentences overproduced certain types of cleft constructions: \nand sentences that contained \"There are\"/\"There is\" which suggests an influence of the topic marking function in their L1 appearing in their L2 English sentences.\n\nSubstitution is when the L1 speaker takes a structure or word from their native language and replaces it within the L2. Odlin (1989) shows a sentence from a Swedish learner of English in the following sentence.\nHere the Swedish word \"bort\" has replaced its English equivalent \"away\".\nA Calque is a direct \"loan translation\" where words are translated from the L1 literally into the L2.\nOverdifferentiation occurs when distinctions in the L1 are carried over to the L2.\nUnderdifferentiation occurs when speakers are unable to make distinctions in the L2.\nHypercorrection is a process where the L1 speaker finds forms in the L2 they consider to be important to acquire, but these speakers do not properly understand the restrictions or exceptions to formal rules that are in the L2, which results in errors, such as the example below.\n\nAlso related to the idea of languages interfering with one another is the concept of language attrition. Language attrition, simply put, is language loss. Attrition can occur in an L1 or an L2. According to the \"Interference Hypothesis\" (also known as the \"Crosslinguistic Influence Hypothesis\"), language transfer could contribute to language attrition. If a speaker moved to a country where their L2 is the dominant language and the speaker ceased regular use of their L1, the speaker could experience attrition in their L1. However, second language attrition could just as easily occur if the speaker moved back to a place where their L1 was the dominant language, and the speaker did not practice their L2 frequently. Attrition could also occur if a child speaker’s L1 is not the dominant language in their society. A child whose L1 is Spanish, but whose socially dominant language is English, could experience attrition of their Spanish simply because they are restricted to using that language in certain domains. Much research has been done on such speakers, who are called heritage language learners. When discussing CLI, attrition is an important concept to keep in mind because it is a direct result of two or more languages coming into contact and the dominance of one over the other resulting in language loss in a speaker.\n\nGrosjean (1997) explained the complementarity principle as the function of language use in certain domains of life leading to language dominance within that domain for a given speaker. This dominance in certain domains of life (e.g. school, home, work, etc.) can lead to apparent Crosslingusitic Influence within a domain. One study found that CLI was occurring within the speech of the studied bilinguals, but the intensity of influence was subject to the domains of speech being used. Argyri and Sorace (2007) found, much like many other researchers, that language dominance plays a role in the directionality of CLI. These researchers found that the English dominant bilinguals had an influence of English on their Greek (concerning preverbal subjects specifically, but also the language in general), but not from their Greek to their English. On the other hand, the Greek dominant bilinguals did not show evidence of Greek influence on their English.\n\nThis supports the notion that bilinguals who do not receive sufficient exposure to both languages acquire a \"weaker language\" and a \"dominant language,\" and depending on similarities or differences between the languages, effects can be present or absent like that of the Greek-English example above. The effect of CLI can be primarily seen as a unidirectional occurrence, in that the L2 is likely to be affected by the L1, or simply the dominant language is more likely to affect the weaker, than the reverse. This supports the idea of individuals' susceptibility to crosslinguistic influences and the role of dominance. Take for example bilinguals who use different languages for different domains in their life; if a Spanish-English bilingual primarily uses Spanish in the home, but English in school you would expect to see English influences while speaking about school topics in Spanish and similarly you would expect Spanish influences on English when speaking about the home in English because in both instances the language being used is weaker in that domain. This is to say that not only do you see CLI from one language to another, but depending on the domains of use and the degree of proficiency or dominance, CLI can be a significant influence on speech production.\n\nSome researchers believe that CLI may be a result of \"contact-modified input,\" or linguistic input modified or affected by some other source such as another language. This is to say that the environment surrounding the learning of another language can influence what is actually being learned. Take for example the fact that most L2 learners are receiving input or teachings from similarly speaking bilinguals; Hauser-Grüdl, Guerra, Witzmann, Leray, and Müller (2010) believe that the language being taught has already been influenced by the other in the teachers' minds and, therefore, the input the learner is receiving will exhibit influence. These L2 learners will replicate influences because their input of the L2 is not as pure as input from a monolingual; meaning, what appears as CLI in the individual isn't really CLI of their L1 on their L2, but the effects of acquiring input that has already been modified. This theory has led some people to believe that all input for L2 learning will be affected and resemble CLI; however, this is not a well-supported theory of CLI or its function in L2 acquisition.\n\nOther researchers believe that CLI is more than production influences, claiming that this linguistic exchange can impact other factors of a learner’s identity. Jarvis and Pavlenko (2008) described such affected areas as experiences, knowledge, cognition, development, attention and language use, to name a few, as being major centers for change because of CLI. These ideas suggest that crosslinguistic influence of syntactic, morphological, or phonological changes may just be the surface of one language’s influence on the other, and CLI is instead a different developmental use of one’s brain.\n\nCLI has been heavily studied by scholars, but there is still much more research needed because of the multitude of components that make up the phenomenon. Firstly, the typology of particular language pairings needs to be researched to differentiate CLI from the general effects bilingualism and bilingual acquisition.\n\nAlso, research is needed in specific areas of overlap between particular language pairings and the domains that influence and discourage CLI. For example, most of the research studies involve European language combinations, and there is a significant lack of information regarding language combinations involving non-European languages, indigenous languages, and other minority languages.\n\nMore generally, an area of research to be further developed are the effects of CLI in multilingual acquisition of three or more languages. There is limited research on this occurrence.\n\nGaston, P. (2013)Syntactic error processing in bilingualism: an analysis of the Optional Infinitive stage in child language acquisition (Unpublished doctoral dissertation). Yale University.\n\nOdlin, T. (2005). Crosslinguistic Influence And Conceptual Transfer: What Are The Concepts? \"Annual Review of Applied Linguistics,\" \"25\". doi:10.1017/s0267190505000012\n"}
{"id": "31009971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31009971", "title": "Daud Rahbar", "text": "Daud Rahbar\n\nDaud Rahbar (1926 – 5 October 2013) was a scholar of comparative religions, Arabic, Persian, Urdu literature and Indian classical music. Rahbar is regarded as accomplished essayist, poet, composer, short story writer, translator, philosopher, contributor to inter-civilization dialogue, musicologist, drummer, singer and guitarist. He translated his own Urdu works to English, such as \"The Cup of Jamshid: A Collection of Ghazal Poetry\" and then translated the \"Urdu letters of Mirzā Asadu'lldh Khān Ghālib\".\n\nAfter a teaching career in England, Canada, Turkey and the United States, he retired as Professor Emeritus of Comparative religions from Boston University in 1991.\n\nDaud Rahbar grew up in Model Town, Lahore, Pakistan between 1929 and 1949. The town was the first cooperative society in the Indian subcontinent, a suburb based on the design of a Hindu architect, Divan Khem Chand. The town was autonomous from Lahore City's jurisdiction, and sectioned into blocks. Each block was populated by either Muslims, Sikhs or Hindus (where the Hindus constitute the largest community). He remarked that his close association with Hindus \"made the love of Hindu communities a natural condition of [his] soul.\" His childhood was spent writing poetry (he took the pen name 'Rahbar' at the age of eight), gardening and walking with his father while discussing Arabic and Persian literature. He was an excellent tennis player.\n\nRahbar's father, Dr. Muhammad Iqbal (1894–1948), was named after Sir Muhammad Iqbal. He graduated with an M.A in Arabic and was the recipient of a State scholarship from the University of Cambridge. He studied under Arabist professors Edward G. Browne, R.A. Nicholson and Anthony Ashley Bevan. After receiving his PhD, Iqbal was appointed Professor of Persian language at the University of the Punjab in 1922 and remained for 26 years. He was later appointed President of Oriental College, Lahore.\n\nRahbar had five siblings. Rahbar married Sabiha Ahmed on 9 April 1950. The couple had two daughters, Sameera and Anisa. Sabiha's father Aga Ghiassudin Ahmed, was a lawyer and botanist and President of Agricultural College in Lyallpur (now University of Agriculture, Faisalabad). Sabiha was a poet as well, although she never received recognition.\n\nHis first cousin, Zia Mohyeddin, is a well-known media personality and artist from Pakistan, who played the lead role in \"Passage to India on Broadway\" and in several British television specials and movies.\n\nRahbar graduated from the Government College, Lahore with an M.A in Arabic in 1947. He received the McLeod Research Scholarship and was hired on to teach Arabic literature at Oriental College, Lahore, where his father was President. In 1949, Rahbar went to Cambridge University and completed his PhD dissertation entitled \"Studies in the Ethical Doctrine of the Qur'an\" under the supervision of Reuben Levy. After a short time in Lahore, Rahbar accepted the position of Senior Teaching Fellow at McGill University, Canada, in 1954, at the invitation of Wilfred Cantwell Smith. In 1956 he was appointed to the chair of Urdu and Pakistan studies at Ankara University, Turkey, where he stayed until 1959. In 1959, he began lecturing in Islamic studies as well as enrolling in Christian theology seminars at the Hartford Seminary Foundation, Connecticut, USA.\n\nIn 1962, he was appointed Visiting Professor of Urdu and Pakistan studies at Hartford Seminary Foundation and was awarded tenure from 1962 to 1966. In 1964, he took a two-year leave to teach at University of Wisconsin-Madison, where he began a systematic study of Indian and Western classical music, concentrating on achieving mastery of Indian classical vocal genres. In that same period, he began writing English poetry with the encouragement of David McCord and Louis Untermeyer.\n\nIn 1967, Rahbar joined the faculty of Boston University where he taught until his retirement in 1991: initially at the School of Theology and from 1975 onwards at the Department of Religion in the College of Liberal Arts, where he was one of the department's most popular teachers, his courses on eastern religions enrolling hundreds of students each semester.\n\nOn 2 January 1958, he presented a paper to the International Islamic Colloquium in Lahore, the second of its kind that brought scholars of Islamic subjects together from across the world. Rahbar's paper, entitled \"The Challenge of Muslim Ideas and Social Values to Muslim Society\" produced criticism from conference attendees, to the point that he was not allowed to return to the platform to explain his points. Rahbar maintains that it was \"an innocent and mild statement\" that he did not perceive to be \"radically unorthodox.\" The opposing members of the conference asked the paper to be withdrawn later that day, but eventually agreed that an amended edition should be written. In the October 1958 issue of \"The Muslim World\", the paper was published with an introductory note outlining the objections of the council and the amendments made thereafter. In his introductory note, Rahbar explained that much of the controversy was due to the inherent brevity of the statements. Therefore, he hoped that the expanded treatment would clarify those objections raised at the colloquium.\n\nRahbar was raised as Muslim but converted to Christianity as a professor at Ankara University. He records in his memoir that he was baptised as a Christian by a Protestant United States Air Force Chaplain, Meredith Smith, in Ankara, on 6 July 1959. Rahbar noted that his conversion was not a result of the 1958 Colloquium, but was more closely related to the memories of Partition of India and the then environment in Turkey. He stated that the \"categorical mercy\" of the New Testament and the \"Christian world seemed to...offer a spiritual home\" from his growing pessimism. A couple of months later, Rahbar wrote \"A letter to Christian and Muslim Friends\" as a confession of faith.\n\nThis confession, however, was not fully accepted by some Muslim intellectuals. Khaled Ahmed, a Pakistani political and cultural analyst, stated that Rahbar's supposed conversion to Christianity was nothing more than a \"myth created in Lahore\" by those who did not fully understand \"what he really stood for.\" He maintained that Rahbar's \"entire career has been a defence of Islam\" and that \"anyone who has read his \"Kalchar Kay Ruhani Anasir\" (Spiritual Elements of Culture)\" will no longer need to question his faith, but rather realise that \"he is tolerant of all faiths because he known the essence of them all.\" His continued respect and appreciation for the Prophet Muhammad and Islam is demonstrated in his published writings.\n\nIn the published version of his dissertation, \"God of Justice: A Study in the Ethical Doctrine of the Qur'an\" published by E. J. Brill in 1960, Rahbar advanced the position that God's mercy is always subordinate to justice, so mercy is only available to believers.\n\nThroughout his academic career, Rahbar continued to make significant contributions to Urdu literature and music. He performed in concerts and poetry readings both in the United States and Pakistan. His love was for classical South Asian music, particularly the Agra School. His flair for poetic expression is infused throughout his autobiography, \"Memories and Meanings.\" \"Music has been my solace for the last forty years,\" he wrote. \"Without it I perhaps could not have been a friend to myself and to others. Music and poetry have made life easier for me everywhere and at every stage of my adult life.\". His published works in the field of Urdu literature include:\n\n\nDaud Rahbar died at a nursing home in Deerfield Beach, Florida on 5 October 2013.\n\n"}
{"id": "8925298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8925298", "title": "Dead baby jokes", "text": "Dead baby jokes\n\nDead baby jokes are a joke cycle reflecting black comedy. The joke is presented in riddle form, beginning with a what question and concluded with a grotesque punch line answer.\n\nAccording to the folklorist scholar Alan Dundes, the dead baby joke cycle likely began in the early 1960s. Dundes theorizes that the origin of the dead baby joke lies in the rise of second-wave feminism in the U.S. during that decade and its rejection of the traditional societal role for women, which included support for legalized abortion and contraceptives. It has also been suggested that the jokes emerged in response to images of graphic violence, often involving infants, from the Vietnam War.\n\nIn the twenty-first century, the popularity of the joke cycle has led to the creation of a number of websites dedicated to dead baby jokes.\n\nWhat's the difference between a truckload of dead babies and a truckload of bowling balls?\n\"With bowling balls you can't use pitchforks\". (In an alternative version, the punchline ends with: \"You can't unload bowling balls with a pitchfork\")\n\nWhat's more fun than nailing a baby to a post?\n\"Ripping it off again\".\n\nWhat's bright blue, pink, and sizzles?\n\"A baby breastfeeding on an electrical outlet.\"\n\nHow do you get 100 dead babies into a box?\n\"With a blender!\"\nHow do you get them out?\n\"With a bag of chips.\"\n\nWhat's better than a thousand dead babies stapled to a tree? \n\"1 dead baby stapled to a thousand trees.\n\nHow many babies does it take to paint a house?\n\"Depends on how hard you throw them.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "33611908", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33611908", "title": "Department of African American Studies – Syracuse University", "text": "Department of African American Studies – Syracuse University\n\nThe Department of African American Studies (AAS) at Syracuse University is an academic department supporting Africana studies. It is located at Syracuse University in Syracuse, New York. It is a prominent independent department at Syracuse University that has had a long history of activism and scholarship in Black and Pan African Studies. The Department supports an external community based unit that is a part of the department and has played a central role in shaping culture and arts in the Syracuse city community - Community Folk Art Center (CFAC). It has also supported the Paul Robeson Performing Arts Company (PRPAC) in the past. These are both independent units that were housed or founded by the department The department also houses the award-winning library, the Martin Luther King Jr. Memorial Library. It currently oversees the internationally recognized university wide initiative \"Africa Initiative\". Its other projects include the nationally recognized \"Paris Noir\" and the Ford Foundation Environmental Justice and Gender Project. It has had a long history of activism within the university, surrounding community, and abroad through its strong international network. The AAS department has housed many renowned scholars in African, Afro-Caribbean, African-American, Afro-Latin American, and Afro-European studies.\n\nThe AAS department was created in the spirit of revolutionary thinking. Syracuse students were among the first in the United States to rebel against institutionalized injustices in education in the 1960s. When Ernie Davis became the first Black football player to win the Heisman trophy in 1961, it was a major landmark for progress for African Americans in higher education. Syracuse alumnus Joe Biden noted in a tribute speech in 2011, that Ernie Davis \"gave a whole group of people hope\". Subsequently, racial discord in the football program began to be highlighted, which resulted in an increase in racial tension. This tension began in 1969 when a group known as the \"Syracuse 8\" highlighted the discrimination they faced in football by coach Floyd \"Ben\" Schwartzwalder. By the opening pre-game of the season, tensions were so high that they resulted in a confrontation between nearly 100 policemen and at least 400 students at the football stadium at Syracuse University.\n\nDue to increasing racial tension and in response to the civil rights movement, in 1968, Black students at Syracuse University staged a protest outside of S. I. Newhouse School of Public Communications, demanding that the university offer Black Studies classes that highlighted and included the intellectual, historical and cultural contributions of African Americans. The administration at Syracuse University subsequently began to make concessions by offering Black Studies classes as an elective. African American Studies (AAS) began as a program in 1972 and then became a department as part of the College of Arts and Sciences in 1979. The 1960s student protests also resulted in an Afro-American Cultural center and marked the beginning of the MLK library collection. The first conference on Critical Issues in Afro-American and African Studies was held at Syracuse University in 1976.\n\nDuring the 1980s, Syracuse students again advocated the administration to widen the pool of African American faculty applicants, hire a department chairperson and in order to increase the staff in the AAS department. The department has stayed without a chair and other key positions for more than a year. Members of the Syracuse African-American Students Association (SAS) were at the forefront of this movement. In 1989, 120 SAS member students confronted Chancellor Melvin Eggers at a round table meeting in order to air their grievances. The group's efforts led to a 400-student protest in 1990 led by SAS President Quentin Stith. The students also advocated for a program that allowed all students (not just those of African-American descent) to learn about the contribution of African Americans in American history. The students were concerned with preserving Black identity and saw their dedication towards African studies as a collective struggle. Throughout the 1980s, students continued to play an active role on the university campus.\n\nIt has now grown into a national and international renowned program that explores linkages between Africa and the African Diaspora. It continues to pioneer revolutionary thinking in its projects, programs, and academics.\n\nCFAC is an extension (unit) of AAS founded deain 1972 by Herbert T. Williams and Harry Morgan that aims at showcasing Black art and artists from underrepresented groups. It hosts exhibitions, films, artist workshops, art classes, and dance performances for the community and students. It is housed with the Paul Robeson Performing Arts Company, Inc. (PRPAC) and serves as an artistic hub in the Syracuse community. Past exhibits at the Community Folk Art Gallery include works by Palmer Hayden Projects also include oral history programs in Syracuse.\n\nA former unit of AAS, the Paul Robeson Performing Arts Company, Inc. (PRPAC) was founded by William H. Rowland and Roy Delemos in 1982 as a non-profit performing arts company. It was founded as a non-profit performing arts company in Syracuse. It was named after African-American concert singer, recording artist, athlete, actor, and activist Paul Robeson. It became a part of the university and AAS in 1989 and has worked at improving art education on the Syracuse university campus and in the Syracuse community.\n\nAAS offers students opportunities for academic study, research, community involvement and study abroad. The department's interdisciplinary curriculum enables students to engage, analyze and create knowledge involving African Americans, and make linkages with areas of Latin America, the Caribbean and continental Africa.\n\nThe Department received a Ford Foundation grant in order to support the development of gender and environmental justice in Africana studies nationally. The project is entitled \"Gender and Environmental Justice,\" and makes AAS the only department of its kind in the nation to recognize the importance of environmental justice in its curriculum. The Ford Foundation also awarded support towards a postdoctoral program focusing on civic engagement in the arts, public humanities, architecture and the media. The Ford Foundation grant facilitated a Black feminist lecture series \"Black Feminism and Environmental Justice\" lecture series, research grants, Community Mapping and Photovoice Research project, and symposiums for Black women and other minorities.\n\nThe department offers a major and minor in African American studies that is interdisciplinary and focuses on international studies. The undergraduate studies program focuses on community involvement and on building an international experience for students. It has pioneered groundbreaking study abroad programs like \"Paris Noir\", \"Beyond the Beach:The Caribbean as a Place, Not just Playground\", and a study abroad programs centered on Black Austria (University of Graz) and Zimbabwe.\n\nThe Masters in Pan African Studies Program began as a unique program in Black Studies in the United States in both its design and delivery. It began in 2005 as a uniquely innovative program that has an emphasis in the area studies of Africa, the Caribbean and the United States. Whereas most programs concentrate on history and biographies, it focuses on the linkages between Africa and the African Diaspora from a multi-disciplinary approach involving cultural, social scientific, political, economic and environmental perspectives. It also provides for intellectual inquiry into philosophy of Pan Africanism and Pan Africanism as a historical, cultural, and contemporary movement. It is the only masters program in Pan African studies that focuses on field research and theory. The Program has an experiential component through affiliations that the department has with institutions abroad that leads to all students studying in Africa, the Caribbean, Canada, or African American sites.\n\nThe AAS department views Africa as an integral part of its scholarly vision and mission. The Africa Initiative (AI) is located in the department of African American studies and was launched in 2001 with a goal of focusing on Africa. AI aims at spearheading revitalized interest in Africa, which has declined in many United States institutions of higher learning since the end of the \"Cold War. Its aim is to also address Africa's silencing, marginalization and stereotyping. It also aims to revitalize interest in Africa as an area of study after the decline of the East African Studies Program at Syracuse University which initiated projects including the Eduardo Mondlane Lecture Series. The East African program had also been instrumental in spearheading an east African library collection at Syracuse's Bird Library that includes the Kenyan and Tanzanian national archives (one of the few collections of these archives in the United States).\n\nAI administers the \"Eduardo Mondlane Memorial Lecture Series\". The lecture series was named after the founder of Front for the Liberation of Mozambique (FRELIMO), Eduardo Mondlane, who was also a former professor at Syracuse University. In recent years, it has become more important in keeping a focus on topical issue on Africa in academia. The lecture series was originally administered by the East African Studies Program at Syracuse University that is now dissolved For several years, this interactive series has brought scholars, students, and the community together to discuss pertinent issues concerning Africa to the university. It is during one of these lecture series on February 20, 1970, that Guinea-Bissau nationalist Amílcar Cabral delivered his famous speech \"National Liberation and Culture\" at Syracuse University. Other notable speakers in the series have included UN Ambassador to Rwanda Stanilas Kamanzi(2003), Ethiopian Ambassador Kasshun Ayele, and writer Veronique Tadjo, Dr. Efemini Andrew, and Jerome Verdier, the chairman of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission in Liberia.\n\nAI periodically hosts major symposia and conferences. In the past, this included the WEB Du Bois and The Crisis Magazine Symposia and International Human Rights Celebration.\n\nThe MLK library was founded by the Syracuse student organization SAAS (Student African American Society) in 1968. It is currently one of the few university libraries in the country that has an entire library with a dedicated African-American collection It consists of video, art, non-print titles, books and journals. It has a special collection, the Harriet Tubman collection. The materials also include special acquisitions for the Africa collection, Caribbean collection, Afro-European collection and Afro-Central American collection.\n\n\nAAS used to publish an annual newsletter, \"Pan African Studies Newsletter\", from 2003 to 2008, that focused on Black Studies and the department that is no longer published.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46196776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46196776", "title": "Eight Musts", "text": "Eight Musts\n\nThe Eight Musts () are a policy set by the General Secretary Xi Jinping administration regarding the role of the Communist Party of China in Chinese society. \n\nThe Eight Musts are:\n\n"}
{"id": "51094273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51094273", "title": "Embassy of Palestine in Cairo", "text": "Embassy of Palestine in Cairo\n\nThe Embassy of Palestine in Cairo () is the diplomatic mission of Palestine in Egypt. It is located at 24 Al Nahda Street in Dokki, Cairo.\n\n"}
{"id": "750970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=750970", "title": "Epic of King Gesar", "text": "Epic of King Gesar\n\nThe Epic of King Gesar (; , \"King Gesar\"; , , \"King Geser\", or Кесар), also spelled Geser (especially in Mongolian contexts) or Kesar (), is an epic cycle, believed to date from the 12th century, that relates the heroic deeds of the culture hero Gesar, the fearless lord of the legendary kingdom of Ling (). It is recorded variously in poetry and prose, chantefable or shuochang being the style of traditional performance, and is sung widely throughout Central Asia and North East of South Asia. Its classic version is to be found in central Tibet. Some 100 bards of this epic (, \"tale\") are still active today in the Gesar belt of China. Tibetan, Mongolian, Buryat, Balti, Ladakhi and Monguor singers maintain the oral tradition and the epic has attracted intense scholarly curiosity as one of the few oral epic traditions to survive as a performing art. Besides stories conserved by such Chinese minorities as the Bai, Naxi, the Pumi, Lisu and Yugur, versions of the epic are also recorded among the Balti of Baltistan, the Burusho people of Hunza and Gilgit, and the Kalmyk and Ladakhi peoples, in Sikkim, Bhutan, Nepal, and among various Tibeto-Burmese, Turkish, and Tunghus tribes. The first printed version was a Mongolian text published in Beijing in 1716.\n\nThe epic is composed of a very large body of versions, each with many variants, and is reputed by some to be the longest in the world. Although there is no one definitive text, the Chinese compilation so far of just its Tibetan versions has filled some 120 volumes, more than one million verses, divided into 29 \"chapters\". Western calculations speak of more than 50 different books edited so far in China, India and Tibet.\n\nA Tibetan scholar has written:\nLike the outstanding Greek epics, Indian epics and Kalevala, King Gesar is a brilliant pearl in the world's cultural treasure and is an important contribution made by our country to human civilization.\n\nIt has been proposed on the basis of phonetic similarities that the name \"Gesar\" reflects the Roman title \"Caesar,\" and that the intermediary for the transmission of this imperial title from Rome to Tibet may have been a Turkic language, since \"kaiser\" (emperor) entered Turkish through contact with the Byzantine Empire, where Caesar (\"Καῖσαρ\") was an imperial title. Some think the medium for this transmission may have been via Mongolian \"Kesar\". The Mongols were allied with the Byzantines, whose emperor still used the title. Numismatic evidence and some accounts speak of a Bactrian ruler \"Phrom-kesar\", specifically the Kabul Shahi of Gandhara, which was ruled by a Turkish \"From Kesar\" (\"Caesar of Rome\"), who was father-in-law of the king of the Kingdom of Khotan around the middle of the 8th century CE. In early Bon sources, \"From Kesar\" is always a place name, and never refers, as it does later, to a ruler. In some Tibetan versions of the epic, a king named \"Phrom\" Ge-sar or \"Khrom\" Ge-sar figures as one of the kings of the four directions – the name is attested in the 10th century and this \"Phrom\"/\"Khrom\" preserves an Iranian form (*\"frōm-hrōm\") for \"Rūm\"/\"Rome\". This eastern Iranian word lies behind the Middle Chinese word for (Eastern) Rome (拂菻:\"Fúlǐn\"), namely Byzantium (\"phrōm-from<*phywət-lyəm>\").\n\nA. H. Francke thought the Tibetan name Gesar derived from Sanskrit. S.K. Chatterji, introducing his work, noted that the Ladakh variant of Kesar, \"Kyesar\", in Classical Tibetan \"Skye-gsar\" meant 'reborn/newly born', and that \"Gesar/Kesar\" in Tibetan, as in Sanskrit signify the 'anther or pistil of a flower', corresponding to Sanskrit \"kēsara,\" whose root 'kēsa' (hair) is Indo-European.\n\nIn Tibet, that Gesar was an historical figure is rarely questioned. Some scholars there argued he was born in 1027, on the basis of a note in a 19th-century chronicle, the \"Mdo smad chos 'byung\" by Brag dgon pa dkon mchog bstan pa rab. Certain core episodes seem to reflect events recorded at the dawn of Tibetan history: the marriage to a Chinese princess is reminiscent of legends concerning Songtsän Gampo's alliance marriage with Princess Wencheng in 641, for example. Legends variously place him in Golok, between Dotō and Domé, or in Markham, Kongpo, Tanak, Öyuk or the village of Panam on the Nyang River. Given that the mythological and allegorical elements of the story defy place and time, the historicity of figures in the cycle is indeterminate. Though the epic was sung all over Tibetan-speaking regions, with Kham and Amdo long regarded as the centres for its diffusion, traditions do connect Gesar with the former Kingdom of Ling (). In Tibetan, \"gling\" means \"island\" but can have, as with the Sanskrit word dvīpa, the secondary meaning of \"continent\". Ling was a petty kingdom located in Kham between the Yangtze and Yalong River. An historical kingdom of Lingtsang () existed until the 20th century.\n\nThe success of the Turk \"Fromo Kesaro\", whose name is a Persian pronunciation of \"Rome (Byzantium) Caesar\", in overwhelming an intrusive Arab army in Gandhara sometime between 739-745, may have formed the historic core behind the Gesar epic in Tibet. In the records of the earliest rulers of Ladakh, Baltistan and Gilgit, whose countries were later overrun by incursive Tibetans, royal ancestry is connected to the Bactrian Gesar.\n\nIn its distinctive Tibetan form, the epic appears to date from the time of the second transmission of Buddhism to Tibet marked by the formation of the Sarma or \"new schools\" of Tibetan Buddhism, although the story includes early elements taken from Indian tantricism. The oral tradition of this epic is most prominent in the two remote areas associated with the pre-Buddhist ethnic religion known as Bon (Ladakh and Zanskar in the far west of Tibet and Kham and Amdo in the east), strongly suggesting that the story has native roots. However, the oral versions known to us today are not, according to R. A. Stein, earlier than the written versions, but rather depend on them.\n\nAs an oral tradition, a large number of variants have always existed, and no canonical text can be written. However, the epic narrative was certainly in something similar to its present form by the 15th century at the latest as shown by the mentions in the \"rLangs-kyi Po-ti bSe-ru\" by \"Byang chub rgyal mtshan.\" Despite the age of the tradition, the oldest extant text of the epic is actually the Mongolian woodblock print commissioned by the Kangxi Emperor of Qing China in 1716. None of the Tibetan texts that have come down to us are earlier than the 18th century, although they are likely based on older texts that have not survived. In the late 19th and early 20th centuries a woodblock printing of the story was compiled by a scholar-monk from Ling-tsang, a small kingdom northeast of Derge, with inspiration from the prolific Tibetan philosopher Jamgon Ju Mipham Gyatso.\n\nThe wide variety of cultures in which the Gesar epic is encountered means that the name for the hero varies. In Tibetan legends Gesar is variously called \"Gesar of Ling\", \"Ling Gesar\", \"Gesar Norbu Dradul\". Among the Buryat he is known as \"Abai Geser Khubun\". The Khalkha oral version calls him \"Altan Bogdo khan.\" An Altai version calls him \"Sädängkäi Käsär\" and \"Sartaktai Käsär\".. Among the Balti and Ladakhi people he is most famously known as Gyalpo Kaiserr.\n\nThe epic has a vast number of variants in plot and motifs, but while there is little point in looking for a consistent picture, the core of the story, similar to that of many legendary cycles, has been summed up as follows:\nKing Ge-sar has a miraculous birth, a despised and neglected childhood, and then becomes ruler and wins his (first) wife 'Brug-mo through a series of marvellous feats. In subsequent episodes he defends his people against various external aggressors, human and superhuman. Instead of dying a normal death he departs into a hidden realm from which he may return at some time in the future to save his people from their enemies.\n\nFor Samuels, the Gesar epic lies towards the shamanic pole in the continuum of Tibetan culture and religion, which he sees as evincing a constant tension between 'clerical' and 'shamanic' Buddhism, the latter grounded in its earlier Bön substrate. The received versions of the Ge-sar cycle are thickly overlaid with Buddhist ideas and motifs, and detecting the original 'heroic' form is difficult. Historical analysis to sift out an ancient core narrative winnows the archaic folkloric leitmotifs from features that show distinct and historically identifiable Buddhist influences. Samuel, comparing three Gesar traditions, Mongolian, Eastern Tibetan and Ladakhi, that developed relatively autonomously, postulates the following core narrative shared by all three:\n\n\nto which one might add\n\nTibetan versions differ very greatly in details. Often Buddhist motifs are conspicuous, with episodes on the creation of the world and Tibet's cosmic origins. In other variants, Gautama Buddha is never mentioned, or a certain secular irony is voiced against the national religion. According to Samten Karmay, Gesar arose as the hero of a society still thinly permeated by Buddhism and the earlier myths associate him with pre-Buddhist beliefs like the mountain cult. While in most episodes, Gesar fights against the enemies of \"dharma\", an old warrior ethos, where physical power, courage, a combative spirit and things like cunning and deceit, prevail.\n\n\n\nThere is a 2017 version of this translated into English. \n\nBuryat versions of the epic focus mainly on Gesar's battles with various demons, rather than on military campaigns. They also contain a detailed and drastically different prologue to Gesar's exploits. According to these versions, the great Tengri Khormusta (Turmas, Khorbustu, Hormust) khan of the celestial tribes of the West waged war with Atai Ulan, khan of the malicious gods of the east. After his victory, Khormusta dismembers Atai Ulan to prevent his resurrection and throws his body parts to Earth, where they become demons and monsters. The act almost causes the extinction of humanity; the middle son of Khormusta (\"Bukhe Belligte\" or \"Uile Butelegcji\") was sent from the realm of heaven to undo the damage.\n\nThe Buryat version contains 9 branches or song episodes (\"uliger\"), each devoted to tell how Gesar defeats an enemy.\n\nThere are a number of stories not connected with the foregoing nine branches described above; for example, a story in which Gesar shames \"Gume-Khan\" of China, or one in which he exterminates the Four Recklings of Evil, demonic beings whose nature is not quite clear.\n\nDistinctive features of these versions of the Gesar epic has led some scholars to the view that the Buryat and Mongolian versions are not directly dependent on a Tibetan original. Setsenmunkh has argued, and the idea was shared by C. Damdinsuren and B. Vladimirtsev, that the written Mongolian versions stem from one source which has not survived.\n\nThis version contains the following seven episodes:\n\nThe Salar language is used to recite some portions of Gesar.\n\nChadwick and Zhirmunsky consider that the main outlines of the cycle as we have it in Mongolia, Tibet and Ladakh show an outline that conforms to the pattern of heroic poetry among the Turkic peoples. (a) Like the Kirghiz hero Bolot, Gesar, as part of an initiation descends as a boy into the underworld. (b) The gateway to the underworld is through a rocky hole or cave on a mountain summit. (c) He is guided through the otherworld by a female tutelary spirit (\"Manene\"/grandmother) who rides an animal, like the Turkish shamaness \"kara Chach\". (d) Like kara Chach, Gesar's tutelary spirit helps him against a host of monstrous foes in the underworld. (e) Like Bolot, Gesar returns in triumph to the world, bearing the food of immortality and the water of life. (f) Like the Altai shamans, Gesar is borne heavenward on the back of a bird to obtain herbs to heal his people. They conclude that the stories of the Gesar cycle were well known in the territory of the Uyghur Khaganate.\n\nThe versions of the Gesar epic collected in Bhutan, in publication since 1979, are projected to run into some 31 volumes. Jigme Wangchuck, second Druk Gyalpo (Dragon King) of Bhutan, had individuals read the \"Epic of Gesar\" to him nightly.\n\nAccording to Lǐ Liánróng,\n\nJiangbian pointed out that the foundation for the origin of epic is ethnic folk culture. He conjectured that before epics came into being, the Tibetan people \"already had a corpus of stories that described the formation of the heavens and the earth, their ethnic origin, and ethnic heroes; these stories provided a foundation for creating the character Gesar, also known as \"Sgrung\" in early history. After further polishing by the oral poets, especially the ballad singers, Gesar became a great epic\" (1986:51).\nMany performers recite episodes from memory or books, while others chant the legendary tales in a state of trance. This last mode bears strong similarities with shamanic practitioners like the pawo mediums and \"mig mthong\" diviners.\n\nAs an heroic song composed or recited by oral bards, the epic of Gesar has been, for centuries, improvised on, and there is therefore no canonical or monumental version, as one finds in, for example, Greek epic. A given Gesar singer would know only his local version, which nonetheless would take weeks to recite. It has been responsive to regional culture and folklore, local conflicts, religious trends, and even political changes on the world stage. For example, in modern times, when news of World War II trickled into Tibet, additional episodes on how \"Gesar Conquers the Kingdom of Phyigling 'Jar\" were composed by 8th Khamthrül Rinpoche (1929–1980), in which Gesar appears, according to some interpretations, to travel to Germany to vanquish the demon-king, perhaps alluding to Adolf Hitler.\n\nTibetan history has often swung between centralized and stateless poles, and the epic of Gesar reflects the tensions between central authority, as embodied in religious orthodoxy, and the wild, nomadic forces of the autarkic periphery. There are versions that adopt Gesar as a lama showing him as a tamer of the wild, but, in so far as his epic retains his old lineaments as a maverick master of shamanic powers, he represents the stateless, anarchic dimension of Tibet's margins, and is rather a tamer of corrupt monastic clerics and, thus, it is not coincidental that the epic flourished on the outlying regions of Kham and Amdo. His wars are campaigns of defence against hostile powers intent on subduing the kingdom of gLing, which are often construed as anti-Buddhist. But his vanquishing of the \"dzongs\" or fortresses preserves an ambiguity, since these were potential outposts of the state.\n\nUntil recently, the tale was forbidden reading in many Tibetan monasteries. In some monasteries, however, rituals invoking Gesar as a major spiritual force are performed. Given the central role the epic played over the centuries in Tibetan folk culture, Tibetan Buddhism has incorporated elements from it and interpreted them in religious terms. The Gelug school disapproved of the epic, while the Kagyu and Nyingma schools generally favoured it, seeing it as an expression of the activity of Padmasambhava and as a vehicle for Buddhist teachings, especially of the Dzogchen school. Consequentially, the question of whether \"babdrung\" (visionary Gesar bards) should be regarded as religious practitioners () will be answered differently by those who favor and those who oppose the epic; the \"babdrung\" themselves, however, generally emphasize the connection of the epic with the Dharma () and see themselves as a kind of religious practitioner.\n\nOrgyen Tobgyal explained that in the Nyingma perspective, \"the real nature of the manifestation we know as Ling Gesar is actually that of Guru Rinpoche himself appearing in the form of a \"drala\"\" (Wylie: dgra bla, \"protective warrior spirit\").\n\nChögyam Trungpa, who represented both Kagyu and Nyingma lineages and founded Shambhala Buddhism in the diaspora, inspired by the Greek philosophers of the polis, used the Gesar epic's detailed tales about an idealized nomadic government formed by the Mukpo clan, which constructed a nomadic confederation of imperial reach, to develop a model of a Tibetan polity.\n\nThe government of China strongly supports the cult of Gesar and its practice among Han Chinese, according to some as a counter-force to Tibetan Buddhism.\n\nIn the region of Baltistan the King Kesar's saga was told in homes, especially in winter but now it is at the verge of distinction due to availability of the media devices. The region being inhabited by 100% Muslim population, the story was told only for recreational purposes and people would consider that the Kesar was not a human being but \"hla hlu\", special creatures of God who are given special command and ability by God. According to some scholars believing in Kesar saga is un-Islamic. According to them the Kesar is Dajjal or Muslim Antichrist who will oppose Imam Mehdi in apocalyptic battle. \n\nThe first printed edition of the Gesar epic was published in Beijing in 1716 in a Mongolian version. It was this text which formed the basis for the first Western-language translation, a Russian version published by the Moravian missionary Isaac Jacob Schmidt in 1836. A German translation followed in 1839. Another Moravian missionary, August Hermann Francke, collected and translated a version from Lower Ladakh between 1905 and 1909. In 1942 George Roerich made a comprehensive survey of the literature of Gesar (Roerich 1942;277-315)\n\nIn the 20th century, other Mongolian Geser texts were edited by scientists like Nicholas Poppe and Walther Heissig.\n\nThe first three volumes of the version known as the Lingtsang-Dege woodblock, which was composed in the late 19th and early 20th centuries, was published with a very faithful though incomplete French translation by Rolf Stein in 1956. Stein followed this publication with his 600-page magnum opus on the Tibetan Epic entitled \"Recherches sur l'Epopee et le Barde au Tibet\". This remains the most in-depth study of the Tibetan Gesar tradition.\n\nAnother version has been translated into German by Matthias Hermanns (1965). This translation is based on manuscripts collected by Hermanns in Amdo. This book also contains extensive study by Hermanns explaining the epic as the product of the Heroic Age of the nomads of North-eastern Tibet and their interactions with the many other peoples of the Inner Asian steppe. Hermanns believed the epic to pre-date Buddhism in Tibet, and saw in it an expression of the ancient Tibetan archetype of the \"heaven-sent king\", as found also in the myths of the founders of the Yarlung Dynasty, who founded the Tibetan Empire (7th-9th centuries CE).\n\nThe most accessible rendering of Gesar in English is by Alexandra David-Néel in her \"Superhuman Life of Gesar of Ling\", published in French in 1933.\n\nIn the occult system of Nicholas Roerich, Gesar is presented as a hero who is believed to accept his physicality in Shambhala. It's told that he would appear with an invincible army to set general justice. Thunderous arrows will be its weapon. Gesar also has a number of magic attributes: white horse, saddle, horseshoe, sword and lock.\n\n"}
{"id": "37880271", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37880271", "title": "Female promiscuity", "text": "Female promiscuity\n\nPromiscuity tends to be frowned upon by many societies, expecting most members to have committed, long-term relationships with single partners.\n\nMost societies have historically been more critical of women's promiscuity than of heterosexual men's. Among women, as well as men, inclination for sex outside committed relationships is correlated with a high libido, but social and cultural factors have also been observed to influence sexual behavior and opinion.\n\nStudies have related sociosexual orientation to sex drive, especially in women, where the higher the sex drive the less restricted the sociosexual orientation, or interest in sex outside committed relationships. Nevertheless, pertaining to the nature and nurture debate, there is some data emphasizing cultural factors, more so for women than for men. One review assessed that sociosexuality was affected almost equally by heredity and environment unshared with siblings; shared environment had relatively little effect.\n\nMen tend to have higher sociosexuality scores and be more unrestricted than women across a variety of cultures. However, there is more variability in scores within each gender than between men and women, indicating that although the average man is less restricted than the average woman, individuals may vary in sociosexual orientation regardless of gender.\n\nContrary to popular belief, body esteem in women showed a significant positive correlation with sociosexual unrestrictedness. So did hip-to-waist ratio and two measures of virilization. Finally, still in the same study, alcohol consumption correlated, too, but it is unclear whether the latter promoted the former or vice versa, or if a third variable was at play.\n\nBisexual women tend to be less restricted in their sociosexual attitudes than both homo- and heterosexual women. In sociosexual behavior also, bisexual women reported being more unrestricted, followed by homo- and then heterosexual women.\n\nSocial power has been popularly associated with sexual infidelity among men; experimental psychologists have linked power with sexual infidelity among women also. A Dutch study involving a large survey of 1,561 professionals, concluded that \"The relationship between power and infidelity was the same for women as for men, and for the same reason. These findings suggest that the common assumption (and often-found effect) that women are less likely than men to engage in infidelity is, at least partially, a reflection of traditional gender-based differences in power that exist in society.\"\n\nChurch-attending women score lower on promiscuity than other women, while men appear to lack this correlation.\n\nA 2010 study published in \"Journal of Marriage and Family\" found that there was a correlation between female pre-marital promiscuity and higher rates of divorce. The research, conducted by Jay Teachman, found that women with 16 or more sexual partners prior to marriage had an 80% rate of subsequent divorce.\n\nMen and women leading polyandrous lifestyles have higher levels of testosterone. However, it is unclear whether higher levels of testosterone cause increased sex drive and in turn multiple partners or whether sexual activity with multiple partners causes the increase in testosterone. Sociosexuality in women is positively correlated with two measures of prenatal exposure to androgens—right digit ratio, and scores on the Vandenberg Mental Rotation test—providing some limited support to the virilization hypothesis of female promiscuity (see also Prenatal hormones and sexual orientation). The aforementioned hypothesis is not at all mutually exclusive with other hypotheses.\n\nLibido is correlated with the menstrual cycle so that many women experience an increase in sexual desire several days immediately before ovulation. Testosterone levels rise gradually from about the 24th day of a woman's menstrual cycle until ovulation on about the 14th day of the next cycle. During the high-testosterone period before ovulation, a woman typically feels more attracted to masculine facial features and is more likely to pursue short-term mating.\n\nIt is common for sex drive to diminish dramatically after menopause. A number of studies, including Alfred Kinsey's, have concluded that the average age group in which women are the most active sexually is their mid-thirties, one study liberally estimating 27-45 as the limits of the age group (the average man peaks earlier). Women in this age group typically report having sexual fantasies greater in number and intensity, engaging in sexual activity more frequently, and being more interested in casual sex.\n\nOne study in sexual antagonism suggested a possible genetic link between female androphilic promiscuity and male androphilia: Samoan tribal women exhibited a correlation between reproductive output and the likeliness of having androphilic grandsons, though not nephews (see also Fa'afafine).\n\nRate of molecular evolution of the seminal protein gene SEMG2 correlates with levels of female promiscuity.\n\nPathological overactivity of the dopaminergic mesolimbic pathway in the brain—forming either psychiatrically, during mania, or pharmacologically, as a side effect of dopamine agonists, specifically D-preferring agonists—is associated with various addictions and has been shown to result among some subjects of either sex in overindulgent, sometimes hypersexual, behavior.\n\nPolyandrous mating is positively correlated with testicle-to-body weight across bushcricket taxa (see Sperm competition). Human testicles, relative to body weight, are lighter than those of the chimpanzee genus (\"Pan\") but heavier than those of gorillas (\"Gorilla\") and orangutans (\"Pongo\"). The bonobo chimpanzee species (\"Pan paniscus\") has heavier testicles than the common chimpanzee species (\"Pan troglodytes\"). It is yet unclear whether the rule is as applicable within species as it is across species—that is, whether it is applicable across races—but according to a study by J. Philippe Rushton, Caucasoid averages (21 g) are about twice as heavier as the Oriental standard (9 g).\n\nBateman's principle implies that females are choosy because there is little evolutionary advantage for them to mate with multiple males. However, observation of many species, from rabbits to fruit flies, has shown that females have more offspring if they mate with a larger number of males. This seemingly contradicts Bateman's theory, specifically his conclusion that \"while males had more children the more partners they mated with, females did not.\"\nExceptions to Bateman's principle abound, as do hypotheses explaining the evolution of female promiscuity. Females in fact have a lot to gain, depending on the species (see here).\n\nMany species once thought monogamous, including such birds as swans, are now known to engage in extra-pair copulations.\n\nThierry Lodé found possible evolutionary explanations for polyandry relating to sexual conflict, including mate competition and inbreeding avoidance. The following list is incomplete.\n\nEvolutionary psychologists have theorized that taboos against female promiscuity evolved on the basis of paternity anxiety. DNA tests being yet to be invented, it was impossible to accurately determine paternity, unlike maternity. A male risked spending paternal investment on offspring who carried genetic material of another male rather than of his own. Evolutionarily, this translated into sexual jealousy and complex preventive customs (e.g., female genital mutilation, menstrual taboos).\n\nFemale promiscuity is a recurring theme in mythologies and religions. In the Middle East, sacred prostitution, usually in honor of Goddess Astarte, had been prevalent before the 4th century when Emperor Constantine I attempted to replace pagan traditions with Christianity. In Greek mythology, nymphs are portrayed as dangerous nature spirits sexually uninhibited with humans; hence, the Victorian medical term \"\". Imperial Rome is popularly seen as being sexually profligate, and certain Roman empresses—such as Theodora I, Messalina and Julia the Elder—gained in their lifetime a reputation of extreme promiscuity.\nThe Bible features many female personages identified as being promiscuous, among them the Whore of Babylon, Princess Jezebel, Prophetess Jezebel, Gomer, Rahab, Salome, and Potiphar's unnamed wife.\nFemale genital mutilation is found in many African and a few Asian societies.\n\nThe development of chastity belts, apparently in the 14th century, proved handy to men worried about the prospect of their wives committing adultery.\n\nMany cultures have historically laid much restriction on sexuality, most emphatically against immoderate expression of sexuality by women. In contrast, some recent ethical philosophies—both secular (coming from individualism and sex-positive feminism) and religious (e.g., Wicca, Thelema, LaVeyan Satanism)—either tolerate it or outright celebrate it.\nPublic opinion has fluctuated over the centuries, with such downturns as New England Puritanism (1630—1660) and the Victorian era (1837—1901), when hypersexuality was often treated as an exclusively female disorder, diagnosed on the grounds of as little as masturbation alone (see here). Up until the late 20th century, women could be incarcerated for promiscuous behavior in so-called Magdalene asylums, the last of which was closed in Ireland in 1996. From 1897 to 1958, Ontario used the Female Refuges Act to incarcerate women felt to be \"incorrigible\".\n\nFollowing the Industrial Revolution (1760~1840), as Western countries underwent industrialization and urbanization, education and employment opportunities were increasing for women. This environment gave rise in the late 19th century to the feminist ideal called \"the New Woman\"—a personification of female economic, sexual and other autonomy—which had a profound influence on feminism well into the 20th century. It wasn't until the Married Women's Property Act 1882 that female British citizens were no longer legally compelled, upon marriage, to transfer all their property to their husbands. The Women's Movement was closely allied with the free love movement, whose advocates had a strong belief that a woman ought to be herself sovereign over her body.\n\nThe Roaring Twenties have been described as \"a time when gin was the national drink and sex the national obsession.\" Popular at that time was a female subculture called \"flappers\", who flouted social and sexual norms and were considered a significant challenge to Victorian gender roles. But these sentiments were then overshadowed by the Great Depression.\nDespite this, the 1925 silent film \"The Red Kimono\", sympathetic toward its promiscuous protagonist, was subject to severe censorship, and led to a landmark legal case, \"Melvin v. Reid\".\n\nThe 1950s in America is stereotyped to have been sexually repressed, though not as severely as the Victorian era. Female promiscuity in particular became substantially more accepted in Western culture after the sexual revolution of the 1960s, which resonated with the hippie movement. It also became more prevalent a theme in mass media, including cinema (e.g., \"Sex and the City\") and music (e.g., \"Erotica\" by Madonna).\n\nMadonna has been at the forefront of the gender neutrality movement in terms of promiscuity since becoming a globally recognized entertainer in the 1980’s. In addition to her sexually explicit song lyrics and occasional nude self exposures during live performances and almost being arrested in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, on May 29, 1990 for simulating masturbation in public , her book Sex released on Oct 21, 1992 was a commercially successful nude pictorial of her and various famous celebrities engaging in scenes of purported promiscuity, further enhancing her vision of gender equality in this regard. \n\nThere has been an increase in awareness of discrimination on grounds of promiscuity—apparent or actual—which at least since year 2010 has been called \"slut shaming\". On April 3, 2011, the SlutWalk movement—protesting against explaining or excusing rape by referring to any aspect of a woman's appearance and later, by extension, calling for sexual freedom in general—began in Toronto, Ontario, Canada, and went on to spread throughout the world.\n\nIn the Islamic world, the \"Ummah\", female promiscuity is a major fear. A woman is obliged, in some countries legally, to wear a veil, such as a burqa or a niqab—in its own right, a symbol of \"modesty\" and \"namus\", i.e. female sexual restraint—so as to prevent the woman from having her body visible to any men other than her family or her sole husband.\n\nWhen a Muslim woman is found to have engaged in extra-marital relations, she falls under the risk of being executed, either by a governmental institution or by natural persons. In the latter case, a common scenario, sometimes even among Muslims residing in Western countries, is family honor killing: the woman's relatives feel that she brought shame on their family, so they resort to homicide as a form of atonement. Otherwise, the woman may be given the penalty of capital punishment by a court, in accordance with the customs of Sharia Islamic law, which is based on the Islamic scriptures of the Quran and on Sunnah. For \"zina\", adultery, the Quran prescribes flogging 100 times in public; the Sunnah adds stoning (\"Rajm\") to death if it was extra-marital.\n\nOn April 20, 2010, Iranian Islamic cleric Hojatoleslam Kazem Sedighi provoked transnational ridicule by blaming promiscuous women for causing earthquakes. Six days later, on the 26th of April, the American Boobquake gathering, organized by the blogger Jennifer McCreight and attended by 200,000 participants, was held in response to it.\n\nJapan wasn't as soon to be reached by the sexual revolution, originating in the American 1960s. The documentary \"Japan — Female Sexuality\" touched on the subject from a 1990s perspective, and reported the trend to be increasing.\n\nAlthough polygyny is more common, some tribal societies are traditionally polyandrous.\n\nThe use of demographical methods in sexological research was pioneered by the American zoologist Alfred Kinsey, who published two books—\"Sexual Behavior in the Human Male\" (1948) and \"Sexual Behavior in the Human Female\" (1953)—collectively known as the Kinsey Reports. The reports defied the expectations of the public and paved the way for the sexual revolution of the 1960s.\n\nAccurately assessing people's sexual behavior is difficult, since there are strong social and personal motivations, depending on social sanctions and taboos, for either minimizing or exaggerating reported sexual activity. Women tend to undervalue the number of their sex partners whereas men tend to overestimate the number of theirs.\n\nIn a 1994 study in the United States, almost all married heterosexual women reported having sexual contact only with their husbands, and unmarried women almost always reported having no more than one sexual partner in the past three months. Lesbians who had a long-term partner reported having fewer outside partners than heterosexual women. More recent research, however, contradicts the assertion that heterosexual women are largely monogamous. A 2002 study estimated that 45% to 55% of married heterosexual women engage in sexual relationships outside their marriage. While the estimates for heterosexual males in the same study were greater (50%–60%), the data indicates that a significant portion of married heterosexual women have or have had sexual partners other than their spouse as well.\n\nOne international study found women to be more variable than men in their sex drive. International measurements of promiscuity are inconsistent from study to study, varying by the methodology used. Due to practical reason—the inability to survey a country's entire population—all studies of this class are inductive, generalizing about the general population based on assessments of sample groups supposed to be representative of the larger population being studied.\n\nFor example, in a non-scientific study conducted by the condom-making company Durex, British women reported fewer partners than British men, while the only country where women reported more sex partners than men did was New Zealand (20.4 versus 16.8), which was also the country where women reported more sex partners than did women from all other countries surveyed. To further complicate matters, a well-known study in general sociosexuality that surveyed 14,059 people across 48 countries, placed New Zealand, which came right before Slovenia, second to Finland; the United States, in the unisex scores of the same study, came in 22nd.\n\nSexual relations with multiple males are termed \"polyandry\". It has a more specific meaning in zoology, where it refers to a type of mating system, and in anthropology, where it refers to a type of marriage. Sexual relations with multiple females are termed \"polygyny\", but in zoology it can only be applied to heterosexual relations. Polyamory is sometimes defined as non-monogamy with consent of all parties involved, if within or without committed relationships. Attitudinal differences concerning sex outside committed relationships are referred to under the term \"sociosexual orientation\" or simply \"sociosexuality\".\n\nSince at least 1450, the word \"slut\" has been used, often pejoratively, to describe a sexually promiscuous woman. In and before the Elizabethan and Jacobean eras, terms like \"strumpet\" and \"whore\" were used to describe women deemed promiscuous, as seen for example in John Webster's 1612 play \"The White Devil\".\n\nDiscrimination targeting individuals, specifically women, for sexual behavior deemed excessive, has been referred to, since at least spring of 2010, with the neologism \"slut shaming\" (also hyphenated, as \"slut-shaming\").\n\n\"Cuckold fetish\" is colloquial for a paraphilia in which sexual gratification is gained from maintenance or observation of sexual relations by a woman with a man or a number of men besides her husband, boyfriend or long-term male sex partner.\n\nThe popular slang \"cougar\" refers to a woman who seeks sexual relations with considerably younger men.\n\nThe term \"fallen woman\" was used to describe a woman who has \"lost her innocence\", and fallen from the grace of God. In Victorian Britain especially, the meaning came to be closely associated with the \"loss or surrender of a woman's chastity\". Its use was an expression of the belief that to be socially and morally acceptable a women's sexuality and experience should be entirely restricted to marriage, and that she should also be under the supervision and care of an authoritative man.\n\n"}
{"id": "1974387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1974387", "title": "First They Killed My Father", "text": "First They Killed My Father\n\nFirst They Killed My Father: A Daughter of Cambodia Remembers is a 2000 non-fiction book written by Loung Ung, a Cambodian author and childhood survivor of Democratic Kampuchea. It is her personal account of her experiences during the communist years.\n\nUntil the age of five, Loung Ung lived in Phnom Penh, one of seven children of a high-ranking government official. She was a precocious child who loved the open city markets, fried crickets, chicken fights and sassing her parents. While her beautiful mother worried that Loung was a troublemaker—that she stomped around like a thirsty cow—her beloved father knew Loung was a clever girl.\n\nWhen Pol Pot's Khmer Rouge army stormed into Phnom Penh in April 1975, Ung's family fled their home and moved from village to village to hide their identity, their education, their former life of privilege. Eventually, the family dispersed in order to survive. Because Loung was resilient and determined, she trained as a child soldier in a work camp for orphans whilst other siblings were sent to labour camps. As the Vietnamese penetrated Cambodia, destroyed the Khmer Rouge, the surviving siblings were slowly reunited. Bolstered by the shocking bravery of one brother, the vision of the others and sustained by her sister's gentle kindness amid brutality, Loung forged herself a new life.\n\nThe book was criticized by Bunkong Tuon for being inaccurate and, therefore, not being useful for historical research by Sody Lay, an American Cambodian reviewer. Reflecting on this negative review, Bunkong Tuon considers Sody Lay's review right and, at the same time, defends the memoirs as an emotional truth instead of a historical truth.\n\nThe book has been adapted into a movie that was produced and directed by Angelina Jolie. The film premiered on February 18, 2017 in Siem Reap, Cambodia.\n\n\"The heart of it is Loung's story\", Jolie states on the film. \"It's the story of a war through the eyes of a child, but it is also the story of a country\". To construct an accurate portrait of the genocide and war, Jolie used only Cambodian actors who speak their native language, Khmer. She gathered hundreds of survivors and their children to re-create their stories. The movie was filmed in Cambodia.\n\n"}
{"id": "384599", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=384599", "title": "Foot in Mouth Award", "text": "Foot in Mouth Award\n\nThe Foot in Mouth Award is presented each year by the Plain English Campaign for \"a baffling comment by a public figure\". The award was first made in 1993, when it was given to Ted Dexter, the chairman of selectors for the England cricket team. It was awarded again the following year, and, after a two-year break, annually from 1997.\n\nThe Plain English Campaign was set up in 1979 when the founder, Chrissie Maher, shredded hundreds of jargon-filled forms and documents in Parliament Square, London. The group made their first awards the next year, rewarding those organisations that used plain English, and highlighting those that did not. Although the Foot in Mouth award was first made in 1993, a specific acknowledgment was made to a comment by Dan Quayle, Vice President of the United States in 1991.\n\nThe award has been presented 20 times, and only Rhodri Morgan and Boris Johnson have received it more than once. The Welsh politician won in both 1998 and 2005, and made a light-hearted response to his second win, claiming that the first award had \"made [his] name.\" Politicians have been recipients of the award more times than any other group of people, collecting it on 14 occasions; people from the world of sport have won four times. The 43rd President of the United States, George W. Bush, received the award in 2008, with the subtitle \"Lifetime Achievement Award\", given not for a single quote, but for his continued \"services to gobbledygook\".\n\n"}
{"id": "21902659", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21902659", "title": "Gorgoroth name dispute", "text": "Gorgoroth name dispute\n\nThe Gorgoroth name dispute refers to a legal dispute between musicians from Norwegian black metal band Gorgoroth over who had ownership of the band's name, which was derived from J. R. R. Tolkien's legendarium. The parties to the dispute were band founder Infernus (Roger Tiegs) and members Gaahl (Kristian Espedal) and King ov Hell (Tom Cato Visnes). It began in October 2007, when it was announced that Gaahl and King had decided to part ways with Infernus, although the former two claimed to have \"fired\" the latter. The dispute was concluded in March 2009 when a court verdict recognising Infernus as the legitimate user of the name was announced, and the outcome of the dispute also established a precedent in Norway for subsequent similar disputes.\n\nGorgoroth was formed in 1992 by guitarist Infernus. Between 1993 and 1998, the band released one demo - \"A Sorcery Written in Blood\" (1993), three studio albums - \"Pentagram\" (1994), \"Antichrist\" (1996) and \"Under the Sign of Hell\" (1997), and one EP - \"The Last Tormentor\" (1996). Infernus wrote much of the material on \"Pentagram\" and the entirety of \"Antichrist\" and \"Under the Sign of Hell\", and he performed the bass lines on the latter two albums. This period saw several line-up changes - as would happen throughout the band's history - as well as extensive live performances which included two European tours. The band was signed to the major German heavy metal record label Nuclear Blast after being approached by them on their headlining European tour in 1997. This would be crucial for Gorgoroth to earn the attention of a wider audience through Nuclear Blast's distribution facilities in the late 1990s and early 2000s.\n\nVocalist Gaahl joined Gorgoroth in 1998, and was heard on the title track of \"Destroyer\" (1998). Bassist King ov Hell joined the band in 1999 and made his studio debut on \"Incipit Satan\" (2000), which was also the first Gorgoroth album to feature Gaahl as the main vocalist. Between 2002 and 2004, King composed the Gorgoroth songs that would comprise the majority of those on \"Twilight of the Idols\" (2003) and the entirety of those on \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\" (2006), the only Gorgoroth releases between 2000 and 2007. Gaahl wrote lyrics for two songs \"Incipit Satan\", the majority of those on \"Twilight of the Idols\" and the entirety of those on \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\". By the summer of 2007, three songs written by King and five songs with lyrics written by Gaahl were played in live performances.<br> \nAlthough Infernus contributed little material to \"Twilight of the Idols\" and none to \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\", he conceived the titles of the albums, rooted in his Satanism and his influences by Friedrich Nietzsche. He also continued to participate in the production and mastering of Gorgoroth albums. His songs also continued to comprise the majority of the material performed live. He reportedly had begun work on new material for a new album in October 2006 and was first reported writing it in March 2007, the title for which he revealed to be \"Quantos Possunt ad Satanitatem Trahunt\" in October 2007. Furthermore, Infernus continued to promote the band and its releases in interviews and by other means such as the \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\" listening session in Berlin, May 2006, as did King through interviews and seminars in the United States. The prominence of each Infernus and King was further reinforced through their statuses as official band contacts as well as by the sleeves of albums such as \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\" - Infernus in particular was emphasised as \"Satan's Minister on Earth\" and he was largely responsible for negotiations with Regain Records.\n\nMore controversy surrounded the band in this period, which resulted from a controversial performance in Kraków, Poland in 2004 after which the relations with Nuclear Blast ceased, Gaahl and Infernus receiving prison sentences for excessive violence and gross negligent rape respectively, and appearances made by Gaahl in the media. It was in part because of some of these events that \"Twilight of the Idols\" and \"Ad Majorem Sathanas Gloriam\" were the only Gorgoroth releases in this time period.\n\nPublicly, Gaahl and King cited multiple reasons behind their decision to exclude founding member Infernus and work under the name Gorgoroth. The claims most frequently iterated throughout the dispute were allegations of Infernus investing no interest in promoting Gorgoroth or participating creatively, and that he was abusive and disrespectful towards promoters, session members and other working partners, while Gaahl and King had \"creatively defined\" Gorgoroth throughout a period of eight years. Other claims also included Gaahl's apparent objection to Infernus' support of the late Euronymous' \"Never Stop the Madness\" campaign through his now-defunct Deathlike Silence Productions label, while King felt averse to being with Infernus in the wake of rape allegations (resulting in his eventual conviction for 'gross negligent rape') against the latter, despite having also expressed in regards to Gaahl's convictions for assault that \"If Gaahl had been in America and attacked in his own house and he decided to defend himself and punish the attacker, the aggressor, he would get a medal.\"\n\nTheir decision had been made by summer 2007, and it was in September that King - with the assistance of Anders Odden - filed a trademark application to Patentstyret for the name and logo of Gorgoroth.\n\nAlthough Infernus declared he would not defend himself against any accusations about him raised throughout the dispute and did not directly counter the claims of Gaahl and King outside of formal environments, he nevertheless stated that he could be \"difficult to work with\", and stated that Gaahl and King should have decided to adopt a new name instead.\n\nMeanwhile, Infernus' work on \"Quantos Possunt ad Satanitatem Trahunt\" had been reported various times in the media.\n\nSelect clauses of the Patentstyret Trademark Act, such as § 2. and § 14. 7., were cited in Infernus' favour throughout the dispute and determined the eventually concluded illegality and invalidity of King's trademark application, which also failed to satisfy § 8.:\n\n§ 2. The exclusive right to a trademark may also be acquired without registration when the trademark is established by use.\n\nA trademark is considered to be established by use when it is well known within the circle of trade concerned in this country as a distinctive sign for someone's goods.\n\n§ 14. A trademark may not be registered if:\n\n7. it is liable to be confused with a trademark which someone else has started to use before the applicant, and the applicant was aware of this use when he filed his application for registration;\n\n§ 8. Even though a registered trademark is liable to be confused with a sign which has an earlier right, it shall be allowed to co-exist validly with the latter, provided the application for registration was filed in good faith and the holder of the earlier right has knowingly tolerated the use of the later trademark in this country for five consecutive years from the date of registration.\n\nFrequent misconceptions throughout the dispute - perpetuated by various media outlets such as \"Terrorizer Magazine\" - were that the acceptance of King's trademark application by Patentstyret in December 2007-January 2008 was a court verdict, and that at least one lawsuit had taken place prior to the one Infernus filed in September 2008, which reached Oslo District Court (Norwegian:\"Oslo tingrett\") in January 2009.\n\nWhatever the motives were of bassist King ov Hell and vocalist Gaahl in claiming the use of the band name Gorgoroth for themselves and excluding founding member Infernus, the first move was made when King - with the assistance of Anders Odden - filed a trademark application to Patenstyret for the name and logo of Gorgoroth.\n\nIn October 2007, Infernus announced on the band's official Myspace page that \"a decision to split up the band\" had been made with him on one side, and Gaahl and King on the other. The statement explained that the members were unable to continue working together any longer and further noted that both sides intended to continue under the band's name. A statement from Gaahl and King was also issued on the same day. Gaahl issued another statement two days later claiming that the band had not split up but \"continued on in a different form.\" The statement further claimed that Infernus had not been a creative force throughout the course of eight years and had \"shown no interest in the art [of] defining Gorgoroth during that same period of time.\" Infernus responded on the following day with a statement noting that he claimed the legal right to band's name as \"the founder and only original member of the band.\"\n\nGaahl and King announced that Hellhammer (Jan Axel Blomberg) of Mayhem and Dimmu Borgir would join them on drums from the beginning of 2008, however this never took place. Teloch of Nidingir (who had also previously been a live session member for Gorgoroth) and Nicholas Barker (formerly of Cradle of Filth and Dimmu Borgir) were also revealed as members of their touring line-up.\n\nAnother statement (intended to be the 'last in a line of short open letters to the media') from Infernus arrived a week later claiming that Gaahl had \"been considering quitting the band numerous times\" while King had left the band the previous year \"due to difficulties combining playing in a clear-cut Satanic metal band as Gorgoroth with the fact that he is full-time employed as a primary school teacher.\" Infernus further noted that as the band's founding member, he would \"not agree on giving away the name [he] rightfully own to [their] third vocalist and sixth or seventh (!) bass player for whatever reasons they might have.\" Furthermore, he said that he was in the process of finishing and preparing the material he reportedly started in October 2006 and was first reported writing when he was released on parole in March 2007, declaring the title to be \"Quantos Possunt ad Satanitatem Trahunt\".\n\nKing's trademark application was revealed by Infernus to the public, and that this was done without the latter's knowledge. Infernus' attorney Egil Horstad of Vogt & Wiig warned Gaahl and King that this application was in abrogration of select sections of the Patentstyret Trademark Act. On their November European tour - which Gorgoroth had been scheduled to embark on several months before the split, Gaahl and King frequently used the name \"The Force Gorgoroth\", and there also existed a King ov Hell/Gaahl trademark application for this band name.\n\nIn December, Regain Records issued a press release announcing their decision to \"continue the co-operation with the band's original member Infernus with a new line-up\" and that the label recognised \"Infernus as the rightful owner of the bands name, logo and trademark\" as well as their preparation \"to take any legal steps necessary to prevent any third party from exploiting it, artistically and commercially.\" A week later, Gaahl and King delivered a statement claiming that it had been \"legally determined\" by the Norwegian patent office that they retained \"the rightful ownership and use of the name and logo, now and in the future.\" After the Patent Office's first department had thus accepted King's Gorgoroth trademark application, King and Gaahl withdrew their application for the trademark of \"The Force Gorgoroth\". The statement also declared that Gaahl and King had severed ties with Regain Records for \"their disloyal acts\" and were \"carefully choosing a new label for the release of their next full-length album.\" Infernus subsequently declared that the Norwegian patent office decision would be appealed by Regain Records and himself.\n\nIn March 2008, Infernus announced that he hired an additional lawyer - Kate I Lohren of Onsagers AS - and made a non-negotiable offer to Gaahl and King with a three-day deadline. The offer was not accepted and Infernus then declared that his attorney would appeal the Norwegian Patent Office decision and \"commence legal proceedings in order to have the matter handled by the courts.\"\n\nOn May 30, 2008, Regain Records announced the June 2008 release of \"True Norwegian Black Metal - Live in Grieghallen\", a new Gorgoroth album recorded live in studio. The recording line-up consisted of Infernus on guitars and bass, Gaahl on vocals, Teloch on session guitars, and Garghuf on session drums. In July 2008, Gaahl and King posted a MySpace bulletin announcing that \"Swedish court authorities (Malmø tingrett)\" had \"sided with Gorgoroth copyright holders Gaahl and King\" against Regain Records in halting the distribution of the album. According to the bulletin, Regain Records had \"illegally removed King's bass tracks and mixed the recordings without the knowledge of Gaahl and King\". King and Gaahl claimed that Regain Records thus broke their contract with them. The bulletin also announced that they planned on taking further action against Regain Records. The following day, Regain Records released a response to the announcement, stating that the ceasing and sales of marketing was \"only an interemistic decision made by the court to stop all actions in regards of the album\" until \"the case is settled and there's no verdict made on the matter yet\".\n\nOn August 12, 2008, Infernus issued a statement saying that the Gorgoroth trademark matter would not be decided until a verdict was made in a yet to be announced trial in Oslo, Norway, and that the conflict between Regain Records and Gaahl/King ov Hell about \"True Norwegian Black Metal - Live in Grieghallen\" would be decided in another to-be-announced trial in Malmö, Sweden; until then, a temporary injunction has stopped Regain Records from promoting and distributing the album.\n\nGaahl and King ov Hell stated that they would be entering the studios on August 25 to record a new album featuring Teloch as well as Ice Dale of Enslaved on guitars, and Frost of Satyricon and 1349 (who was also at different points a full-time and session member of Gorgoroth) on drums.\n\nBy October 2008, everything except the vocals had been recorded for the new album of Gaahl and King that in the aftermath of the name dispute was expected to materialise into the debut God Seed album. At certain points in time it was publicly stated by Gaahl and/or other parties that he had begun working on lyrics and vocal arrangements, but apparently on none of these occasions did Gaahl fulfil these, and his lack of enthusiasm would contribute to his decision to retire from metal in July 2009. In October 2008, studio times were allocated so Gaahl could begin work, prompting the cancellation of a tour. However, in December 2008 when interviewed by Faceculture, Gaahl implied that he had not yet worked on lyrics and vocal arrangements and intended to do so somepoint after the completion of his band's European tour with Cradle of Filth. In early 2009, Gaahl and his partner Robin went on vacation in Spain for two months. While Gaahl was abroad, King claimed that he was using this time to work on lyrics and vocal arrangements, but after Gaahl returned from Spain it was stated by King that these had still yet to be done:\n\nWe have recorded everything in the studio and are just waiting for Gaahl to put on vocals on it. So we have only vocals and the final mix to go before it's all done. It's sometimes a nightmare to work with him in the studio because of the pride he puts into the smallest details. If he is not in the right mood or doesn't find the correct words we get nothing done. At times I've spent days in the studio counting seconds with nothing happening. It's the same way now, but I know in the end the result will be unique and powerful. We have to wait till Gaahl is done writing his lyrics to choose the title for the album. When the whole concept of this album is done lyrically we’ll decide which title to use.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, it was announced on Infernus' official Gorgoroth website that a trial date was scheduled in Oslo, Norway and would take place in the last week of January 2009.\n\nThe trial took place between January 28–30, 2009, and on March 10, 2009, Infernus announced the verdict had been reached:\n\n\"Oslo City District Court has today delivered a verdict on the main question in the Gorgoroth trademark case, which took place at the end of January 2009. The court has decided that King ov Hell's trademark registration # 243365 of the band name Gorgoroth is NOT valid and shall therefore be deleted. The court states that King ov Hell and Gaahl excluded themselves from the band Gorgoroth when they tried to fire Infernus in October 2007. The court further states that Infernus cannot be excluded from Gorgoroth, unless he himself decides to quit. Infernus is very pleased, but not surprised, by this verdict. The remaining issues concerning financial matters and such are yet to be decided upon.\"\n\nThe name was considered to have already been trademarked by use before Gaahl and King joined the band in 1998 and 1999 respectively. According to Infernus' lawyer Erik Rødsand, Gaahl and King are prohibited from choosing band names that are \"confusingly alike to\" Gorgoroth. This would also include their previously registered \"The Force Gorgoroth\". The domain name gorgoroth.org which had been under their control was redirected to the official website at www.gorgoroth.info until the lease eventually expired in 2010. Gaahl and King assumed the name God Seed after the verdict, although the lineup was to dissolve in July 2009 after having had performed at two festivals following Gaahl's decision to leave and retire from metal music.\n\nIn early April 2009, Infernus revealed to the public that Gaahl and King had opened a small business called \"Gorgoroth DA\", apparently intended to be in connection with the Gorgoroth band name, and that the business was to be ordered to be shut down. On June 2, 2009, an article in the Norwegian financial newspaper Dagens Næringsliv revealed that the remaining issues in Infernus' lawsuit had been agreed upon by the two parties, and that a settlement had been made. The details of the settlement are confidential, but Infernus commented that he was content with the outcome. In the same article, King and Gaahl's lawyer, Lars Christian Fjeldstad, confirmed that the verdict concerning the trademark registration was final - meaning it cannot be appealed - and that a settlement had been made regarding the remaining issues of the lawsuit.\n\nThe sequence of key events in the name dispute is as follows:\n\nThe witnesses who were called to testify in the trial were:\n\n\n\nFenriz, Morgan Håkansson and David Parland expressed support for Infernus, and the latter denounced Gaahl and King as \"thieves\" and a 'fake theatre', in regards to their use of the name Gorgoroth and false reputation as Satanists.\n\nOther black metal musicians, such as Averse Sefira did not take side on the legal situation.\n"}
{"id": "33950320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33950320", "title": "Gudiyam Cave", "text": "Gudiyam Cave\n\nGudiyam Caves are rock shelters in South India and known for prehistoric stone tools and culture. They were first identified by British geologist Robert Bruce Foote. This ancient site is situated in the Thiruvallur district near the Poondi reservoir, from Chennai, Tamil Nadu.\n\nArchaeological evidence suggests that the caves were used by Paleolithic Man. The site has been excavated by the Archaeological Survey of India in 1963 and 1964. Systematic paleolithic studies in this region indicate these sites suggest extensive movement of early hominids across the landscape about 200,000 years ago. Sixteen such shelters have been identified by the Archaeological Survey of India in Allikulli Hill ranges near Poondi.\n\n"}
{"id": "5875811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5875811", "title": "Independent medical examination", "text": "Independent medical examination\n\nAn independent medical examination (IME) occurs when a doctor, psychologist, or other licensed healthcare professional conducts an examination of an individual to help answer specific legal or administrative questions related to a variety of situations, e.g., a disability claim; workers' compensation case; a personal injury lawsuit (tort claim); impaired professionals program; or sexual harassment in the workplace.\n\nConducting an IME does not establish a typical doctor/therapist-patient relationship as exists when a clinician treats a patient in the hospital or at an outpatient clinic. However, the independent, objective (unbiased) nature of the examination does not absolve the doctor from all professional responsibilities. For example, in most IMEs the clinician should assess for possible psychiatric disorders and ask the individual if he or she has been thinking of hurting or killing themselves or someone else. If upon further questioning after an affirmative response it becomes apparent that the evaluee poses a significant risk of imminent harm to self or others, the examiner must take steps to prevent such harm and to facilitate referral to appropriate treatment and psychosocial support. Thus, a \"limited doctor-patient relationship\" exists when conducting IMEs.\n\nIMEs may be conducted to determine the cause, extent and medical treatment of a work-related or other injury where liability is at issue; whether an individual has reached maximum benefit from treatment; and whether any permanent impairment remains after treatment. An IME may be conducted at the behest of an employer or an insurance carrier to obtain an independent opinion of the clinical status of the individual. Workers' compensation insurance carriers, auto insurance carriers, and self-insured employers have a legal right to this request. Should the doctor/therapist performing the IME conclude that a patient’s medical condition is not related to a compensable event, the insurer may deny the claim and refuse payment.\n"}
{"id": "8597028", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8597028", "title": "Ixlu", "text": "Ixlu\n\nIxlu () is a small Maya archaeological site that dates to the Classic and Postclassic Periods. It is located on the isthmus between the Petén Itzá and Salpetén lakes, in the northern Petén Department of Guatemala. The site was an important port with access to Lake Petén Itzá via the Ixlu River. The site has been identified as Saklamakhal, also spelt Saclemacal, a capital of the Kowoj Maya.\n\nThe site has over 150 structures, the majority of which in the site core display typically Postclassic characteristics. The site was briefly investigated by Don and Prudence Rice in 1980.\n\nIxlu is located approximately east of the departmental capital of Flores and north of Guatemala City. Ixlu is approximately south of the ruins of the major Classic Period city of Tikal.\n\nArchaeological investigations have uncovered potsherds dating as far back as the early Middle Preclassic (1000 BC–800 BC). Postclassic potsherds are widely distributed in the upper levels of the site to a depth of . Evidence from the Temple of the Hidden Jars indicates a continuous occupation from the Preclassic right through the Classic (AD 200–900) to the Postclassic Period (AD 900–1525), with occupation continuing until approximately 1700, well after the Spanish Conquest of most of Guatemala, according to ethnohistoric sources. The Petén Lakes region finally fell to the Spanish Crown in 1697, at which time Ixlu was in disputed territory between the mutually hostile Itza and Kowoj kingdoms.\n\nFifty structures have been mapped at Ixlu by the Central Peten Historical Ecology Project. Nine of these are C-shaped bench superstructures and two are L-shaped.\n\nIxlu has two ballcourts and is one of only two Postclassic sites in the central Petén lakes region to have a recognisable ballcourt. However, both ballcourts at Ixlu apparently date to the Late Classic. The site possesses a twin pyramid complex, a feature that is rare outside of Tikal and probably indicates the political influence of that great city.\n\nThe architecture at Ixlu resembles that at the Late Classic site of Seibal on the Pasión River.\n\nThe Temple of the Hidden Jars (\"Templo de las Vasijas Escondidas\") has been labelled as Structure 2034. It is bordered by Structure 2041 on the south side, Structure 2036 to the west and Structure 2035 to the north, its eastern side faces onto Patio B. The temple measures and consisted of a two-level platform, the first level was high and the second level had a height of . The temple has been dated to the Late Postclassic Period (AD 1200-1525). A stairway ascended the west side of the temple and there was an altar on the summit that measured . The temple is named from two hidden niches on the west side of the temple, one at the foot of the stairway and the second under an altar on the temple steps. Each contained a single red-brown ceramic vessel measuring approximately in diameter and high, each with its respective concave lid. The vessels have four handles spaced equidistantly around the circumference, with the lids also possessing a handle. The jars contained only brown soil. This style of hidden niche is similar to niches associated with ceremonial structures in distant Mayapan in the north of the Yucatán Peninsula.\n\nFour Classic Period sculpted monuments were recovered from the site, two stelae and two altars. Ixlu Stela 1 bears the date 879 AD, in the Late Classic Period, and depicts a ruler who used the Tikal Emblem Glyph and the \"K'ul Mutul Ahaw\" title (\"holy lord of Tikal\"). The stelae at Ixlu resemble traditional Classic Period stelae such as those at Tikal. Both Stelae 1 and 2 show bloodletting rituals and the materialisation of the Paddler Gods. Ixlu Stela 2 is now located in the main plaza of Flores.\n\nThe monuments of Ixlu bear some hieroglyphic texts that closely resemble texts from the site of Dos Pilas, suggesting that the lords of Ixlu may have been refugees from the collapse of that state in the Petexbatún region of the Petén Basin, a state that itself professed to have a legitimate claim to the rulership of Tikal.\n\n"}
{"id": "58111829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58111829", "title": "Jane Yolen bibliography", "text": "Jane Yolen bibliography\n\nBibliography of fantasy writer Jane Yolen:\n\n\n\n\nGreat Alta\n\n\nThe Young Merlin Trilogy (Mythopoeic Fantasy Award for Children's Literature)\n\n\nTartan Magic\n\n\nThe Stuart Quartet (with Robert J. Harris)\n\n\nYoung Heroes (with Robert J. Harris)\n\n\nRock 'n' Roll Fairy Tales (with Adam Stemple)\n\n\nThe Seelie Wars (with Adam Stemple)\n\n\n\nHere There Be... illustrated by David Wilgus\n\n\n\n\n\nPiggins (illustrated by Jane Dyer)\n\n\nHow Do Dinosaurs...? (illustrated by Mark Teague)\n\n\nBaby Bear (illustrated by Melissa Sweet)\n\n\nLittle Frog\n\n\n\n\n\n\nAn Unsolved Mystery from History (with Heidi E.Y. Stemple; illustrated by Roger Roth)\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12666941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12666941", "title": "Jewish views on slavery", "text": "Jewish views on slavery\n\nJewish views on slavery are varied both religiously and historically. Judaism's ancient and medieval religious texts contain numerous laws governing the ownership and treatment of slaves. Texts that contain such regulations include the Tanakh (Hebrew Bible), the Talmud, the 12th century Mishneh Torah by rabbi Maimonides, and the 16th century Shulchan Aruch by rabbi Yosef Karo. The original Israelite slavery laws found in the Hebrew Bible bear some resemblance to the 18th century BCE slavery laws of Hammurabi. The regulations changed over time. The Hebrew Bible contained two sets of laws, one for Canaanite slaves, and a more lenient set of laws for Hebrew slaves. From the time of the Pentateuch, the laws designated for Canaanites were applied to all non-Hebrew slaves. The Talmud's slavery laws, which were established in the second through the fifth centuries CE, contain a single set of rules for all slaves, although there are a few exceptions where Hebrew slaves are treated differently from non-Hebrew slaves. The laws include punishment for slave owners that mistreat their slaves. In the modern era, when the abolitionist movement sought to outlaw slavery, supporters of slavery used the laws to provide religious justification for the practice of slavery.\n\nHistorically some Jewish people owned and traded slaves. They were important players in the medieval slave trade in Europe up to about the 12th century. Several scholarly works have been published to rebut the antisemitic canard of Jewish domination of the slave trade in Africa and the Americas in the later centuries, and to show that Jews had no major or continuing impact on the history of New World slavery. They possessed far fewer slaves than non-Jews in every Spanish territory in North America and the Caribbean, and in no period did they play a leading role as financiers, shipowners, or factors in the transatlantic or Caribbean slave trades.\n\nAmerican mainland colonial Jews imported slaves from Africa at a rate proportionate to the general population. As slave sellers, their role was more marginal, although their involvement in the Brazilian and Caribbean trade is believed to be considerably more significant. Jason H. Silverman, a historian of slavery, describes the part of Jews in slave trading in the southern United States as \"minuscule\", and writes that the historical rise and fall of slavery in the United States would not have been affected at all had there been no Jews living in the American South. Jews accounted for 1.25% of all Southern slave owners, and were not significantly different from other slave owners in their treatment of slaves.\n\nThe story of the Exodus from Egypt, as related in the Torah, has shaped the Jewish people throughout history. Briefly outlined, the story recounts the experience of the Israelites under Egyptian enslavement, God's promise to redeem them from slavery, God's punishment of the Egyptians, and the Israelite redemption and departure from Egypt. The Exodus story has been interpreted and reinterpreted in every era and in every location to suit or challenge cultural norms. The result over time has been a steady increase in governance of masters in favor of slaves' rights and eventually the complete prohibition of slavery.\n\nAncient Israelite society allowed slavery; however, total domination of one human being by another was not permitted. Rather, slavery in antiquity among the Israelites was closer to what would later be called indentured servitude. Slaves were seen as an essential part of a Hebrew household. In fact, there were cases in which, from a slave's point of view, the stability of servitude under a family in which the slave was well-treated would have been preferable to economic freedom. It is impossible for scholars to quantify the number of slaves that were owned by Hebrews in ancient Israelite society, or what percentage of households owned slaves, but it is possible to analyze social, legal, and economic impacts of slavery.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains two sets of rules governing slaves: one set for Hebrew slaves (Lev 25:39-43) and a second set for Canaanite slaves (Lev 25:45-46). The main source of non-Hebrew slaves were prisoners of war. Hebrew slaves, in contrast to non-Hebrew slaves, became slaves either because of extreme poverty (in which case they could sell themselves to an Israelite owner) or because of inability to pay a debt. According to the Hebrew Bible, non-Hebrew slaves were drawn primarily from the neighboring Canaanite nations, and religious justification was provided for the enslavement of these neighbors: the rules governing Canaanites was based on a curse aimed at Canaan, a son of Ham, but in later eras the Canaanite slavery laws were stretched to apply to all non-Hebrew slaves.\n\nThe laws governing non-Hebrew slaves were more harsh than those governing Hebrew slaves: non-Hebrew slaves could be owned permanently, and bequeathed to the owner's children, whereas Hebrew slaves were treated as servants, and were released after six years of service or the occurrence of a jubilee year. One scholar suggests that the distinction was due to the fact that non-Hebrew slaves were subject to the curse of Canaan, whereas God did not want Jews to be slaves because he freed them from Egyptian enslavement.\n\nThe laws governing Hebrew slaves were more lenient than laws governing non-Hebrew slaves, but a single Hebrew word, \"ebed\" (meaning slave or servant, cognate to the Arabic \"abd\") is used for both situations. In English translations of the Bible, the distinction is sometimes emphasized by translating the word as \"slave\" in the context of non-Hebrew slaves, and \"servant\" or \"bondman\" for Hebrew slaves.\n\nMost slaves owned by Israelites were non-Hebrew, and scholars are not certain what percentage of slaves were Hebrew: Ephraim Urbach, a distinguished scholar of Judaism, maintains that Israelites rarely owned Hebrew slaves after the Maccabean era, although it is certain that Israelites owned Hebrew slaves during the time of the Babylonian exile. Another scholar suggests that Israelites continued to own Hebrew slaves through the Middle Ages, but that the Biblical rules were ignored, and Hebrew slaves were treated the same as non-Hebrews.\n\nThe Torah forbids the return of runaway slaves who escape from their foreign land and their bondage and arrive in the Land of Israel. Furthermore, the Torah demands that such former slaves be treated equally to any other resident alien. This law is unique in the Ancient Near East.\n\nIn the early Common Era, the regulations concerning slave-ownership by Jews underwent an extensive expansion and codification within the Talmud. The precise issues that necessitated a clarification to the laws is still up for debate. The majority of current scholarly opinion holds that pressures to assimilate during the late Roman to early medieval period resulted in an attempt by Jewish communities to reinforce their own identities by drawing distinctions between their practices and the practices of non-Jews. One author however, has forwarded that they could include factors such as ownership of non-Canaanite slaves, the continuing practice of owning Jewish slaves or conflicts with Roman slave-ownership laws. Thus, the Talmud (circa 200–500 CE) contains an extensive set of laws governing slavery, which is more detailed than found in the Torah.\n\nThe major change found in the Talmud's slavery laws was that a single set of rules, with a few exceptions, governs both Jewish slaves and non-Jewish slaves. Another change was that the distinction between Hebrew and non-Hebrew slaves began to diminish as the Talmud expanded during this period. This included an expanded set of obligations the owner incurred to the slave as well as codifying the process for manumission (the freeing from slavery). It also included a large set of conditions that allowed or required manumission to include requirements for education of slaves, expanding disability manumission, and in cases of religious conversion or necessity. These restrictions were based on the Biblical injunction to treat slaves well with the reinforcement of the memory of Egyptian slavery which Jews were urged to remember by their scriptural texts. However, historian Josephus wrote that the seven-year automatic release was still in effect if the slavery was a punishment for a crime the slave committed (as opposed to voluntary slavery due to poverty). In addition, the notion of Canaanite slaves from the Jewish Bible is expanded to all non-Jewish slaves.\n\nSignificant effort is given in the Talmud to address the property rights of slaves. While the Torah only refers to a slave's specific ability to collect gleanings, Talmudic sources interpret this commandment to include the right to own property more generally, and even \"purchase\" a portion of their own labor from the master. Hezser notes the often confusing mosiac of Talmudic laws distinguishes between finding property during work and earning property as a result of work. While the Talmud affirmed that self-redemption of slaves (Jewish or not) was always permitted, it noted that conditionless manumission by the owner was generally a violation of legal precept. The Talmud however, also included a varied list of circumstances and conditions that overrode this principle and mandated manumission. Conditions such as ill-treatment, oral promise, marriage to a free-woman, escape, inclusion in religious ceremony, and desire to visit the Holy Land all required the master to provide the slave with a deed of manumission, presented to him with witnesses. Failure to comply would result in excommunication.\n\nIt is apparent that Jews still owned Jewish slaves in the Talmudic era because Talmudic authorities tried to denounce the practice that Jews could sell themselves into slavery if they were poverty-stricken. In particular, the Talmud said that Jews should not sell themselves to non-Jews, and if they did, the Jewish community was urged to ransom or redeem the slave.\n\nWhile Jews did take slaves for granted just as in other ancient societies, slaves in Jewish households could expect more compassionate treatment.\n\nSome scholars have asserted that the Curse of Ham described in Judaism's religious texts was a justification for slavery - citing the Tanakh (Jewish Bible) verses and the Talmud. Scholars such as David M. Goldenberg have analyzed the religious texts, and concluded that those conclusions on faulty interpretations of Rabbinical sources: Goldenberg concludes that the Judaic texts do not explicitly contain anti-black precepts, but instead later race-based interpretations were applied to the texts by later, non-Jewish analysts.\n\nThe classical rabbis instructed that masters could never marry female slaves. They would have to be manumitted first; similarly, male slaves could not be allowed to marry Jewish women. Unlike the biblical instruction to sell thieves into slavery (if they were caught during daylight and could not repay the theft), the rabbis ordered that female Israelites could never be sold into slavery for this reason. Sexual relations between a slave owner and engaged slaves is prohibited in the Torah (Lev. 19:20-22). However, the Torah allows sex with non-engaged slaves, by clarifying that if she is engaged when the master has sex with her, \"they are not to be put to death, since she was not freed\" (which implies that a woman's slave status has direct bearing on whether she can be used for sex).\n\nThe Tanakh contains the rule that Jewish slaves would be released following six years of service, but that non-Jewish slaves (barring a long list of conditions including conversion, or disability) could potentially be held indefinitely. The Talmud codified and expanded the list of conditions requiring manumission to include religious necessity, conversion, escape, maltreatment, and codified slaves' property rights and rights to education. Freeing a non-Jewish slave was seen as a religious conversion, and involved a second immersion in a ritual bath (mikveh). Jewish authorities of the Middle Ages argued against the Biblical rule that provided freedom for severely injured slaves.\n\nThe Torah and the Talmud contain various rules about how to treat slaves. Biblical rules for treatment of Jewish slaves were more lenient than for non-Jewish slaves and the Talmud insisted that Jewish slaves should be granted similar food, drink, lodging, and bedding, to that which their master would grant to himself. Laws existed that specified punishment of owners that killed slaves. Jewish slaves were often treated as property; for example, they were not allowed to be counted towards the quorum, equal to 10 men, needed for public worship. Maimonides and other halachic authorities forbade or strongly discouraged any unethical treatment of slaves, Jewish or not. Some accounts indicate that Jewish slave-owners were affectionate, and would not sell slaves to a harsh master and that Jewish slaves were treated as members of the slave-owner's family.\n\nScholars are unsure to what extent the laws encouraging humane treatment were followed. In the 19th century, Jewish scholars such as Moses Mielziner and Samuel Krauss studied slave-ownership by ancient Jews, and generally concluded that Jewish slaves were treated as merely temporary bondsman, and that Jewish owners treated slaves with special compassion. However, 20th century scholars such as Solomon Zeitlin and Ephraim Urbach, examined Jewish slave-ownership practices more critically, and their historical accounts generally conclude that Jews did own slaves at least through the Maccabbean period, and that it was probably more ubiquitous and humane than earlier scholars had maintained. Professor Catherine Hezser explains the differing conclusions by suggesting that the 19th century scholars were \"emphasizing the humanitarian aspects and moral values of ancient Judaism, Mielziner, Grunfeld, Farbstein, and Krauss [to argue] that the Jewish tradition was not inferior to early Christian teachings on slaves and slavery.\"\n\nThe Talmudic laws required Jewish slave owners to try to convert non-Jewish slaves to Judaism. Other laws required slaves, if not converted, to be circumcised and undergo ritual immersion in a bath (\"mikveh\"). A 4th century Roman law prevented the circumcision of non-Jewish slaves, so the practice may have declined at that time, but increased again after the 10th century. Jewish slave owners were not permitted to drink wine that had been touched by an uncircumcised person so there was always a practical need, in addition to the legal requirement, to circumcise slaves.\n\nAlthough conversion to Judaism was a possibility for slaves, rabbinic authorities Maimonides and Karo discouraged it on the basis that Jews were not permitted (in their time) to proselytise; slave owners could enter into special contracts by which they agree not to convert their slaves. Furthermore, to convert a slave into Judaism without the owner's permission was seen as causing harm to the owner, on the basis that it would rob the owner of the slave's ability to work during the Sabbath, and it would prevent them from selling the slave to non-Jews.\n\nChristian leaders, including Pope Gregory the Great (served 590-604), objected to Jewish ownership of Christian slaves, due to concerns about conversion to Judaism and the Talmudic mandate to circumcise slaves. The first prohibition of Jews owning Christian slaves was made by Constantine I in the 4th century. The prohibition was repeated by subsequent councils - Fourth Council of Orléans (541), Paris (633), Fourth Council of Toledo (633), the Synod of Szabolcs (1092) extended the prohibition to Hungary, Ghent (1112), Narbonne (1227), Béziers (1246). It was part of Saint Benedict's rule that Christian slaves were not to serve Jews.\n\nDespite the prohibition, Jews participated to some extent in slave trading during the Middle Ages. The extent of Jewish participation in the medieval slave trade has been subject to ongoing discourse among the historians. Michael Toch noted that the idea of a Jewish dominance of or even monopoly over the slave trade of medieval Christian Europe, while present in some older historical works, is generally unfounded. Jews were the chief traders in the segment of Christian slaves at some epochs and played a significant role in the slave trade in some regions. According to other sources, Medieval Christians greatly exaggerated the supposed Jewish control over trade and finance, and became obsessed with alleged Jewish plots to enslave, convert, or sell non-Jews. Most European Jews lived in poor communities on the margins of Christian society; they continued to suffer most of the legal disabilities associated with slavery. Jews participated in routes that had been created by Christians or Muslims but rarely created new trading routes.\n\nDuring the Middle Ages, Jews acted as slave-traders in Slavonia North Africa, Baltic States, Central and Eastern Europe, Spain and Portugal, and Mallorca The most significant Jewish involvement in the slave-trade was in Spain and Portugal during the 10th to 15th centuries.\n\nJewish participation in the slave trade was recorded as beginning in the 5th century, when Pope Gelasius permitted Jews to introduce slaves from Gaul into Italy, on the condition that they were non-Christian. In the 8th century, Charlemagne (ƒ 768-814) explicitly allowed Jews to act as intermediaries in the slave trade. In the 10th century, Spanish Jews traded in Slavonian slaves, whom the Caliphs of Andalusia purchased to form their bodyguards. In Bohemia, Jews purchased these Slavonian slaves for exportation to Spain and the west of Europe. William the Conqueror brought Jewish slave-traders with him from Rouen to England in 1066. At Marseilles in the 13th century, there were two Jewish slave-traders, as opposed to seven Christians.\n\nMiddle Ages historical records from the 9th century describe two routes by which Jewish slave-dealers carried slaves from west to east and from east to west. According to Abraham ibn Yakub, Byzantine Jewish merchants bought Slavs from Prague to be sold as slaves. Similarly, the Jews of Verdun, around the year 949, purchased slaves in their neighborhood and sold them in Spain.\n\nJews continued to own slaves during the 16th through 18th centuries, and ownership practices were still governed by Biblical and Talmudic laws. Myriad Hebrew and other sources indicate that owning slaves—particularly women of Slavic origin—was uniquely prevalent during this period among the Jewish households of the urban centres of the Ottoman Empire.\n\nJewish laws governing treatment of slaves were restated in the 12th century by noted rabbi Maimonides in his book Mishneh Torah, and again in the 16th century by Rabbi Yosef Karo in his book Shulchan Aruch.\n\nThe legal prohibition against Jews owning Jewish slaves was emphasized in the Middle Ages yet Jews continued to own Jewish slaves, and owners were able to bequeath Jewish slaves to the owner's children, but Jewish slaves were treated in many ways like members of the owner's family.\n\nThe Hebrew Bible contains instructions to redeem (purchase the freedom of) Jewish slaves owned by non-Jews (Lev. 25:47-51). Following the suppression of the 66AD rebellion in Judea by the Roman army, many Jews were taken to Rome as prisoners of war. In response, the Talmud contained guidance to emancipate Jewish slaves, but cautioned the redeemer against paying excessive prices since that may encourage Roman captors to enslave more Jews. Josephus, himself a former 1st century slave, remarks that the faithfulness of Jewish slaves was appreciated by their owners; this may have been one of the main reasons for freeing them.\n\nIn the Middle Ages, redeeming Jewish slaves gained importance and—up until the 19th century—Jewish congregations around the Mediterranean Sea formed societies dedicated to that purpose. Jewish communities customarily ransomed Jewish captives according to a Judaic mitzvah regarding the redemption of captives (Pidyon Shvuyim). In his \"A History of the Jews\", Paul Johnson wrote, \"Jews were particularly valued as captives since it was believed, usually correctly, that even if they themselves poor, a Jewish community somewhere could be persuaded to ransom them. ... In Venice, the Jewish Levantine and Portuguese congregations set up a special organization for redeeming Jewish captives taken by Christians from Turkish ships, Jewish merchants paid a special tax on all goods to support it, which acted as a form of insurance since they were likely victims.\"\n\nJews participated in the European colonization of the Americas, and owned slaves in Latin America and the Caribbean, most notably in Brazil and Suriname, but also in Barbados and Jamaica. Especially in Suriname, Jews owned many large plantations. Many of the ethnic Jews in the New World, particularly in Brazil, were \"New Christians\" or \"conversos\", some of which continued to practice Judaism, so the distinction between Jewish and non-Jewish slave owners is a difficult distinction for scholars to make. \n\nThe Jews of Algiers were frequent purchasers of Christian slaves from Barbary corsairs. Meanwhile, Jewish brokers in Livorno, Italy, were instrumental in arranging the ransom of Christian slaves from Algiers to their home countries and freedom. Although one slave accused Livorno's Jewish brokers of holding the ransom until the captives died, this allegation is uncorroborated, and other reports indicate Jews as being very active in assisting the release of English Christian captives. In 1637, an exceptionally poor year for ransoming captives, the few slaves freed were ransomed largely by Jewish factors in Algiers working with Henry Draper.\n\nThe Atlantic slave trade transferred African slaves from Africa to colonies in the New World. Much of the slave trade followed a triangular route: slaves were transported from Africa to the Caribbean, sugar from there to North America or Europe, and manufactured goods from there to Africa. Jews and descendants of Jews participated in the slave trade on both sides of the Atlantic, in the Netherlands, Spain, and Portugal on the eastern side, and in Brazil, Caribbean, and North America on the west side.\n\nAfter Spain and Portugal expelled many of their Jewish residents in the 1490s, many Jews from Spain and Portugal migrated to the Americas and to the Netherlands. Jewish participation in the Atlantic slave trade increased through the 17th century because Spain and Portugal maintained a dominant role in the Atlantic trade and peaked in the early 18th century, but started to decline after the Peace of Utrecht in 1713 when Britain obtained the right to sell slaves in Spanish colonies, and Britain and France started to compete with Spain and Portugal. By the time the worldwide slave trade and European sugar-growing reached its peak in the 18th century, Jewish participation was dwarfed by the enterprise of British and French planters who did not allow Jews among their number. During the 19th century, some Jews owned some cotton plantations in the southern United States.\n\nThe role of Jewish converts to Christianity (New Christians) and of Jewish traders was momentarily significant in Brazil and the Christian inhabitants of Brazil were envious because the Jews owned some of the best plantations in the river valley of Pernambuco, and some Jews were among the leading slave traders in the colony. Some Jews from Brazil migrated to Rhode Island in the American colonies, and played a significant but non dominant role in the 18th-century slave trade of that colony; this sector accounted for only a very tiny portion of the total human exports from Africa.\n\nThe New World location where Jews played the largest role in the slave-trade was in the Caribbean and Suriname, most notably in possessions of the Netherlands, that were serviced by the Dutch West India Company. The slave trade was one of the most important occupations of Jews living in Suriname and the Caribbean. The Jews of Suriname were the largest slave-holders in the region.\n\nAccording to Austen, \"the only places where Jews came close to dominating the New World plantation systems were Curaçao and Suriname.\" Slave auctions in the Dutch colonies were postponed if they fell on a Jewish holiday. Jewish merchants in the Dutch colonies acted as middlemen, buying slaves from the Dutch West India Company, and reselling them to plantation owners. The majority of buyers at slave auctions in the Brazil and the Dutch colonies were Jews. Jews allegedly played a \"major role\" in the slave trade in Barbados and Jamaica, and Jewish plantation owners in Suriname helped suppress several slave revolts between 1690 to 1722.\n\nIn Curaçao, Jews were involved in trading slaves, although at a far lesser extent compared to the Protestants of the island. Jews imported fewer than 1,000 slaves to Curaçao between 1686 and 1710, after which the slave trade diminished. Between 1630 and 1770, Jewish merchants settled or handled \"at least 15,000 slaves\" who landed in Curaçao, about one-sixth of the total Dutch slave trade.\n\nThe Jewish role in the American slave trade was minimal. According to historian and rabbi Bertram Korn, there were Jewish owners of plantations, but altogether they constituted only a tiny proportion of the industry. In 1830 there were only four Jews among the 11,000 Southerners who owned fifty or more slaves.\n\nOf all the shipping ports in Colonial America, only in Newport, Rhode Island did Jewish merchants play a significant part in the slave-trade.\n\nA table of the commissions of brokers in Charleston, South Carolina, shows that one Jewish brokerage accounted for 4% of the commissions. According to Bertram Korn, Jews accounted for 4 of the 44 slave-brokers in Charleston, three of 70 in Richmond, and 1 of 12 in Memphis. However the proportion of Jewish residents of Charleston who owned slaves was similar to that of the general white population (83% versus 87% in 1830).\n\nHistorian Seymour Drescher emphasized the problems of determining whether or not slave-traders were Jewish. He concludes that New Christian merchants managed to gain control of a sizeable share of all segments of the Portuguese Atlantic slave trade during the Iberian-dominated phase of the Atlantic system. Due to forcible conversions of Jews to Christianity many New Christians continued to practice Judaism in secret, meaning it is impossible for historians to determine what portion of these slave traders were Jewish, because to do so would require the historian to choose one of several definitions of \"Jewish\".\n\nIn 1991, the Nation of Islam (NOI) published \"The Secret Relationship Between Blacks and Jews\", which alleged that Jews had dominated the Atlantic slave trade. Volume 1 of the book claims Jews played a major role in the Atlantic slave trade, and profited from slavery. The book was heavily criticized for being anti-Semitic, and for failing to provide any objective analysis of the role of Jews in the slave trade. Common criticisms included the fact that the book used selective quotes, made \"crude use of statistics\", and was purposefully trying to exaggerate the role of Jews. The Anti-Defamation League (ADL) criticized the NOI and the book. Henry Louis Gates Jr criticized the book's intention and scholarship.\nHistorian Ralph A. Austen heavily criticized the book and said that although the book may seem fairly accurate, it is an anti-Semitic book. However, he added that before the publication of \"The Secret Relationship\", some scholars were reluctant to discuss Jewish involvement in slavery because of fear of damaging the \"shared liberal agenda\" of Jews and African Americans. In that sense, Austen found the book's aims of challenging the myth of universal Jewish benevolence throughout history to be legitimate even though the means to that end resulted in an anti-Semitic book.\n\nThe publication of \"The Secret Relationship\" spurred detailed research into the participation of Jews in the Atlantic slave trade, resulting in the publication of the following works, most of which were published specifically to refute the thesis of \"The Secret Relationship\":\n\nMost post-1991 scholars that analysed the role of Jews only identified certain regions (such as Brazil and the Caribbean) where the participation was \"significant\". Wim Klooster wrote: \"In no period did Jews play a leading role as financiers, shipowners, or factors in the transatlantic or Caribbean slave trades. They possessed far fewer slaves than non-Jews in every British territory in North America and the Caribbean. Even when Jews in a handful of places owned slaves in proportions slightly above their representation among a town's families, such cases do not come close to corroborating the assertions of \"The Secret Relationship\"\".\n\nDavid Brion Davis wrote that \"Jews had no major or continuing impact on the history of New World slavery.\" Jacob R. Marcus wrote that Jewish participation in the American Colonies was \"minimal\" and inconsistent. Bertram Korn wrote \"all of the Jewish slavetraders in all of the Southern cities and towns combined did not buy and sell as many slaves as did the firm of Franklin and Armfield, the largest Negro traders in the South.\"\n\nAccording to a review in \"The Journal of American History\" of both \"Jews, Slaves, and the Slave Trade: Setting the Record Straight\" and \"Jews and the American Slave Trade\": \"Faber acknowledges the few merchants of Jewish background locally prominent in slaving during the second half of the eighteenth century but otherwise confirms the small-to-minuscule size of colonial Jewish communities of any sort and shows them engaged in slaving and slave holding only to degrees indistinguishable from those of their English competitors.\"\n\nAccording to Seymour Drescher, Jews participated in the Atlantic slave trade, particularly in Brazil and Suriname, however in no period did Jews play a leading role as financiers, shipowners, or factors in the transatlantic or Caribbean slave trades. He said that Jews rarely established new slave-trading routes, but rather worked in conjunction with a Christian partner, on trade routes that had been established by Christians and endorsed by Christian leaders of nations. In 1995 the American Historical Association (AHA) issued a statement, together with Drescher, condemning \"any statement alleging that Jews played a disproportionate role in the Atlantic slave trade\".\n\nAccording to a review in \"The Journal of American History\" of \"Jews, Slaves, and the Slave Trade: Setting the Record Straight\" (Faber) and \"Jews and the American Slave Trade\" (Friedman), \"Eli Faber takes a quantitative approach to Jews, Slaves, and the Slave Trade in Britain's Atlantic empire, starting with the arrival of Sephardic Jews in the London resettlement of the 1650s, calculating their participation in the trading companies of the late seventeenth century, and then using a solid range of standard quantitative sources (Naval Office shipping lists, censuses, tax records, and so on) to assess the prominence in slaving and slave owning of merchants and planters identifiable as Jewish in Barbados, Jamaica, New York, Newport, Philadelphia, Charleston, and all other smaller English colonial ports.\" Historian Ralph Austen, however, acknowledges \"Sephardi Jews in the New World had been heavily involved in the African slave trade.\"\n\nSlavery historian Jason H. Silverman describes the part of Jews in slave trading in the southern United states as \"minuscule\", and wrote that the historical rise and fall of slavery in the United States would not have been affected at all had there been no Jews living in the south. Jews accounted for only 1.25% of all Southern slave owners.\nJewish slave ownership practices in the southern United States were governed by regional practices, rather than Judaic law. Many southern Jews held the view that blacks were subhuman and were suited to slavery, which was the predominant view held by many of their non-Jewish southern neighbors. Jews conformed to the prevailing patterns of slave ownership in the South, and were not significantly different from other slave owners in their treatment of slaves. Wealthy Jewish families in the American South generally preferred employing white servants rather than owning slaves. Jewish slave owners included Aaron Lopez, Francis Salvador, Judah Touro, and Haym Salomon.\n\nJewish slave owners were found mostly in business or domestic settings, rather than on plantations, so most of the slave ownership was in an urban context — running a business or as domestic servants. Jewish slave owners freed their black slaves at about the same rate as non-Jewish slave owners. Jewish slave owners sometimes bequeathed slaves to their children in their wills.\n\nA significant number of Jews gave their energies to the antislavery movement. Many 19th century Jews, such as Adolphe Crémieux, participated in the moral outcry against slavery. In 1849, Crémieux announced the abolition of slavery throughout the French possessions.\n\nIn England there were Jewish members of the abolition groups. Granville Sharp and Wilberforce, in his \"A Letter on the Abolition of the Slave Trade,\" employed Jewish teachings as arguments against slavery. Rabbi G. Gottheil of Manchester, and Dr. L. Philippson of Bonn and Magdeburg, forcibly combated the view announced by Southern sympathizers, that Judaism supports slavery. Rabbi M. Mielziner's anti-slavery work \"Die Verhältnisse der Sklaverei bei den Alten Hebräern\", published in 1859, was translated and published in the United States. Similarly, in Germany, Berthold Auerbach in his fictional work \"Das Landhausam Rhein\" aroused public opinion against slavery and the slave trade, and Heinrich Heine also spoke against slavery. Immigrant Jews were among abolitionist John Brown's band of antislavery fighters in Kansas, including Theodore Wiener (from Poland); Jacob Benjamin (from Bohemia), and August Bondi (1833-1907) from Vienna. Nathan Meyer Rothschild was known for his role in the abolition of the slave trade through his part-financing of the £20 million British government compensation paid to former owners of the plantation industry's freed slaves.\n\nA Jewish woman Ernestine Rose was called \"queen of the platforms\" in the 19th century because of her speeches in favor of abolition. Her lectures were met with controversy. Her most ill-received lecture was likely in Charleston, Virginia (today West Virginia), where her lecture on the evils of slavery was met with such vehement opposition and outrage that she was forced to exercise considerable influence to even get out of the city safely.\n\nIn the civil-war era, prominent Jewish religious leaders in the United States engaged in public debates about slavery. Generally, rabbis from the Southern states supported slavery, and those from the North opposed slavery.\n\nThe most notable debate was between Rabbi Morris Jacob Raphall, who defended slavery as it was practiced in the South because slavery was endorsed by the Bible, and rabbi David Einhorn who opposed its current form. However, there were not many Jews in the South, and Jews accounted for only 1.25% of all Southern slave owners. In 1861, Raphall published his views in a treatise called \"The Bible View of Slavery\". Raphall, and other pro-slavery rabbis such as Isaac Leeser and J. M. Michelbacher (both of Virginia), used the Tanakh (Jewish Bible) to support their arguments.\n\nAbolitionist rabbis, including Einhorn and Michael Heilprin, concerned that Raphall's position would be seen as the official policy of American Judaism, vigorously rebutted his arguments, and argued that slavery – as practiced in the South – was immoral and not endorsed by Judaism.\n\nKen Yellis, writing in \"The Forward\", has suggested that \"the majority of American Jews were mute on the subject, perhaps because they dreaded its tremendous corrosive power. Prior to 1861, there are virtually no instances of rabbinical sermons on slavery, probably due to fear that the controversy would trigger a sectional conflict in which Jewish families would be arrayed on opposite sides. ... America’s largest Jewish community, New York’s Jews were overwhelmingly pro-southern, pro-slavery, and anti-Lincoln in the early years of the war.\" However, as the war progressed, \"and the North’s military victories mounted, feelings began to shift toward[s] ... the Union and eventually, emancipation.\"\n\nIn contemporary affairs, Jews and African-Americans have cooperated in the Civil Rights movement, motivated partially by the common background of slavery, particularly the story of the Jewish enslavement in Egypt, as told in the Biblical story of the Book of Exodus, which many blacks identified with. Seymour Siegel suggests that the historic struggle against prejudice faced by Jews led to a natural sympathy for any people confronting discrimination. Joachim Prinz, president of the American Jewish Congress, spoke from the podium at the Lincoln Memorial during the famous March on Washington in 1963 where he emphasized how Jews identify deeply with African American disenfranchisement \"born of our own painful historic experience,\" including slavery and ghettoization.\n\nPresently, according to the Orthodox Union, \"The Jewish Daily Forward\", and the \"Jewish Quarterly\", slavery (as defined as the total subjugation of one human being over another) is absolutely unacceptable in Judaism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "218197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=218197", "title": "Johnny Reb", "text": "Johnny Reb\n\nJohnny Reb or Johnny Rebel is the national personification of the Southern states of the United States, or less generally, the Confederacy during the American Civil War. Patriots used Johnny Reb and his Union counterpart Billy Yank to symbolize the common soldiers in the American Civil War of the 1860s.\n\nJohnny Reb is usually pictured in gray wool uniform with the typical kepi-style forage cap made of wool broadcloth with a rounded, flat top, cotton lining, and leather visor. He is often shown with his weapons and with the Confederate flag.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42411281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42411281", "title": "Jonah Hex: Shadows West", "text": "Jonah Hex: Shadows West\n\nJonah Hex: Shadows West is a collection of graphic novels written by American author Joe R. Lansdale. The artwork was done by writer and illustrator Timothy Truman and artist Sam Glanzman. These works were published from 1993 to 1999 by DC Comics. These all surround the adventures of fictional bounty hunter Jonah Hex who was originally created by writer John Albano and artist Tony DeZuniga in 1977. All of the original story and artwork has been redone and reprinted in high quality graphics by Vertigo/DC Comics in 2014.\n\n1994 Introduction by Joe R. Lansdale\n\n"}
{"id": "30201656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30201656", "title": "Journal of Chinese Linguistics", "text": "Journal of Chinese Linguistics\n\nThe Journal of Chinese Linguistics is a peer-reviewed academic journal in the field of linguistics, particularly concerned with all aspects of the Chinese language. It was established in 1973 and is now published twice a year by University of California at Berkeley. The current editor-in-chief is William S-Y. Wang (Chinese University of Hong Kong). According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2011 impact factor of 0.179, ranking it 125th out of 162 journals in the category \"Linguistics\".\n"}
{"id": "40190120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40190120", "title": "Kashmir: The Case for Freedom", "text": "Kashmir: The Case for Freedom\n\nKashmir: The Case for Freedom is a collection of essays by Tariq Ali, Hilal Bhat, Angana P. Chatterji, Habbah Khatun, Pankaj Mishra and Arundhati Roy, published by Verso.\n\nThe first essay by Pankaj Mishra describes that Kashmiris want true democracy and questions the disregard of the hardships faced by the Kashmiris and evasiveness of the Indian intellectuals on this issue. Tariq Ali in his essay \"Story of Kashmir\" explains how the valley which was once considered a paradise changed into a disputed region. Arundhati Roy in \"Azadi: The only thing Kashmiris want\" discusses Jawahar Lal Nehru's stance on the Kashmir issue by referring to his speeches, letters, telegrams and quotes under the header \"Seditious Nehru.\" Moreover, Roy elucidates what \"freedom\" means to Kashmiris. While questioning India's liberal democracy, she criticises journalists for not raising their voice against the human right abuses against the Kashmiri people by Indian security forces. According to Roy Kashmir was never an integral part of India.\nHilal Bhatt shares his experience of a train journey, which was marred by the violence that erupted after the Babri Mosque debacle. Bhatt who lost his friends in the violence during the journey, expresses how the announcement at reaching Aligarh railway station made him realise the meaning of the word \"freedom\". The essay also includes poem by the sixteenth Queen of Kashmir, Habbah Khatun. Angana P. Chatterji discusses how the militarisation has affected the lives of the people in the valley in her piece \"The Militarised Zone\", while Tariq Ali describes his views in \"Afterword\".\n\nAccording to Manisha Gangahar, the book states the ground reality of the Kashmir region. Arifa Akbar for The Independent writes: \"This collection speaks urgent truths about the disputed Kashmir region and its struggle for independence (azadi).\"\n"}
{"id": "46846357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46846357", "title": "Killing Reagan", "text": "Killing Reagan\n\nKilling Reagan: The Violent Assault That Changed a Presidency is a book written by Bill O'Reilly and Martin Dugard about the attempted assassination of U.S. President Ronald Reagan in 1981. It is the fifth in the \"Killing\" series, following \"Killing Lincoln\", \"Killing Kennedy\", \"Killing Jesus\", and \"Killing Patton\". The book was released on September 22, 2015, and topped \"The New York Times\" Best Sellers List.\n\nIn 1981, after delivering a speech at the Washington Hilton Hotel on March 30, President Reagan is shot by John Hinckley, Jr.. Near death, Reagan's life is in the balance in the hands of doctors at George Washington University Hospital. At the White House however, there is chaos as Reagan's cabinet is led by Secretary of State Alexander Haig.\n\nOn September 26, 2015, about a week after the book's release, National Geographic announced that a television film adaptation is in the works. In May 2016, it was announced that Tim Matheson and Cynthia Nixon would play Ronald and Nancy Reagan respectively in the upcoming television film. Filming began in late May. It premiered Sunday, October 16 at 8 PM.\n\nFollowing the release of Killing Reagan: The Violent Assault That Changed a Presidency, Reagan biographers Craig Shirley, Steven Hayward, Paul Kengor, and Kiron Skinner, along with a handful of former Reagan aides, immediately began to challenge the book on its factual inaccuracies and historical fabrications. Those four Reagan biographers, who had written 19 biographies on Ronald Reagan among them, penned an op-ed for \"The Washington Post\" on October 16 that highlighted what they claimed to be major historical inaccuracies and outright fabrications used in O'Reilly's book. Additional criticisms surfaced from officials that served in the Reagan Administration, who were present at the events discussed in the book, yet dispute what actually happened. A. B. Culvahouse, who served as Counsel to the President from 1987 to 1989, calls one of the key anecdotes of O'Reilly's book describing a meeting focused on President Reagan's fitness to hold office \"a debunked myth.\"\n\nIn response, O'Reilly took to the airwaves on October 19, responding to the criticism and calling his critics \"zealots and jealous people.\" He also called the criticisms \"comical,\" to which Reagan historian Shirley responded \"So far, I've written four books on Ronald Reagan, written dozens of articles, given dozens of lectures, am a trustee of Eureka College, taught a course there [titled] Reagan 101, and have lectured at the Reagan Library and the Reagan Ranch. [I]t is fair to say we probably know a little bit more about Ronald Reagan than Bill O'Reilly. We certainly know the facts of Ronald Reagan.\"\n\nThe following day, Ed Meese, who served as Counselor to the President (1981–1985) and Attorney General (1985–1988), penned a joint op-ed with Ronald Reagan Presidential Foundation Executive Director John Heubusch detailed more inaccuracies in O'Reilly's book, saying \"we believe that \"Killing Reagan\" does a real disservice to our 40th president and to history itself.\" The same day, Frank Donatelli, President Reagan's Assistant for Political and Intergovernmental Affairs, also penned an op-ed for \"The Washington Times\" disputing O'Reilly's key thesis as another discredited \"senility myth\" about Ronald Reagan.\n\nMore criticisms came from reporters at \"The Washington Post\", who looked into O'Reilly's claim to have \"double-sourced everything\" in his book. On October 19, 2015, about a month \"after\" the book was published, O'Reilly's researcher first reached out to the Ronald Reagan Presidential Library to obtain a document that O'Reilly himself called a \"key part of the book.\" On October 21, it was reported that Annelise Anderson, the fact-checker that O'Reilly and Dugard commissioned to research and fact-check the manuscript for \"Killing Reagan\", pulled out of the project after realizing that the authors were \"distorting\" material, in her opinion. In \"National Review\" she further stated, \"Why the authors want to present this distorted 'witch and wimp' view of Nancy [Reagan] and the 40th president is puzzling, especially since an alternative view of the effect of Reagan's near-death experience is so readily available.\"\n\nGeorge Will called the book a work of \"nonsensical history and execrable citizenship.\" He added that it \"should come with a warning: 'Caution—you are about to enter a no-facts zone.'\"\n\n"}
{"id": "831919", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=831919", "title": "Kisan Mazdoor Bahujan Party", "text": "Kisan Mazdoor Bahujan Party\n\nKisan Mazdoor Bahujan Party (Peasants and Workers Majority Party) was a splinter group of the Jantantrik Bahujan Samaj Party in India. The leader of KMBP was Narendra Singh. In the state elections in Uttar Pradesh in 2002, KMBP was an ally of the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), and launched two BJP-supported candidates. KMBP was part of the state government in Uttar Pradesh around 2002. KMBP joined the Indian National Congress ahead of the Lok Sabha elections 2004.\n"}
{"id": "26458311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26458311", "title": "Microburin technique", "text": "Microburin technique\n\nThe microburin technique is a special procedure for cutting up lithic blades which yields fragments that can be used in the manufacture of utensils. The usable fragments are basically geometric microliths. This technique has been recorded through the Old World, from at least the Mesolithic. It has also been recorded from the later phases of the Upper Paleolithic, as triangular and trapeze shaped microliths have been found from the end of the French Magdalenian although they are very rare. The microburin blow technique has not been found, at present, in the New World.\nThe technique consists of taking a blade (a flake can also be used) and placing its upper end against a support with a sharp edge (as occurs in the use of an anvil). A notch is then made and enlarged using light blows or by pressing the edge of the piece against the angled edge of the support. The notch is enlarged until the lithic blade snaps with a gentle but positive action (flection).\n\nIf the technique is carried out effectively, the break should be oblique to the axis of the blade and near to its proximal zone, giving two different pieces: which are called respectively the proximal microburin, which is the smaller of the two pieces and which retains the heel and conchoidal flakes from the original piece; and the \"trihedral apex\", that is the larger part of the blade. The flexion break is also slightly curved and oblique to the faces of the blade: the plane of the break is curved such that it can be seen in the upper face of the \"trihedral apex\" and its negative can be seen in the lower face of the \"microburin\".\nThis «double trihedral apex» can then be used to form geometric microliths (\"triangles\", \"trapezes\" or \"lunate-shaped\") following abrupt retouching of both worked edges. Often the retouching does not cover the whole edge and it is possible to see part of the fracture plain on these microliths. This has allowed us to reconstruct with a great deal of certainty the actions of the artisans who made these microliths\n\nThe same microburin blow technique can be used to form other types of non-geometric microliths, such as, for example, the Tardenois tips.\n\n"}
{"id": "14084056", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14084056", "title": "New York Bill of Rights", "text": "New York Bill of Rights\n\nThe New York Bill of Rights is a statutory bill of rights enacted in 1787 in the U.S. state of New York.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56169780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56169780", "title": "One World Archaeology", "text": "One World Archaeology\n\nOne World Archaeology is a book series focussing on archaeology and education about the past. \n\nOne World Archaeology is one of five book series associated with the World Archaeological Congress (WAC). Editors and contributors to these series waive any royalties, allowing all royalties to be used to further the work of the WAC. \"Publications in the One World Archaeology series contain selections of the papers presented at the WAC Congresses, held every four years. This series developed as an outcome of the inaugural World Archaeological Congress held in Southampton, England in 1986. The subject matter of this series is wide-ranging, reflecting the diverse interests of WAC. WAC gives place to considerations of power and politics in framing archaeological questions and results. WAC also gives place and privilege to minorities who have often been silenced or regarded as beyond capable of making main line contributions to the field.\"\n\nThe other four series are Worlds of Archaeology, Indigenous Archaeologies, Global Cultural Heritage Manual Series, and Research Handbooks in Archaeology\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23460331", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23460331", "title": "P. T. Deutermann bibliography", "text": "P. T. Deutermann bibliography\n\nThis P. T. Deutermann bibliography is a list of books written by P. T. Deutermann, except collections, ebooks, and non-novels.\n"}
{"id": "8078743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8078743", "title": "Participation inequality", "text": "Participation inequality\n\nIn social sciences, participation inequality consists of difference between levels of participation of various groups in certain activities. Common examples include:\n\nIn politics, participation inequality typically affects \"the kinds of individuals, such as the young, the poor and those with little formal education\" who tend to not take the initiative to participate in electoral and related events. State enumeration, such as was done in Canada before the implementation of the National Register of Electors in 1996, \"worked to augment voter turnout among all segments of society and thus mitigated a natural tendency toward participation inequality in electoral politics\".\n\nPolitical participation inequality refers to how populations differ in political participation when sorted by various characteristics. Most often these groupings are by social class, race, gender, or ethnicity. Widespread political participation inequality often describes when various groups are left out of the political sphere or excluded from various political rights.\n\nParticipation inequality usually helps political theorists determine where democracies fail or when political institutions are not democratically responsive. When political systems are too unequal in terms of political participation, it most generally means that there is a breakdown in the ability of all citizens to politically deliberate to distribute various scarce resources, implement comprehensive public policy, or enact needed social reforms. Nations with high amounts of participation inequality are generally characterized as undemocratic although there are certain nations, like India, where low participation inequality has not helped the democratic responsiveness of Indian institutions.\n\nIn his 1971 paper \"Polyarchy: Participation and Opposition\", Robert Dahl provided a basic framework to evaluate democracies or polyarchies (nearly/almost full democracies) based on their participation inequality. He argued that there are two dimensions: public contestation – the various rights and procedures guaranteed to citizens – and inclusiveness – how accessible these rights are to all citizens. More fully, public contestation describes the necessary functions for a liberal democracy: a competitive political atmosphere, ability to run for office, right to vote, right to assembly, etc. Inclusiveness describes what portion of the population is able to enjoy these rights and procedures.\n\nParticipation inequality is usually represented along the dimension of inclusiveness. So, if a nation were to allow only short people to vote, this political system would have a certain level of public contestation – the right to vote being available – and a certain dimension of inclusiveness – only short people being able to enjoy this right. This system of evaluating democracies enables comparisons of political regimes based on participation inequality by comparing inclusiveness between equally publicly contestable political systems.\n\nUsing Dahl’s framework, the first cause of participation inequality can be rooted in a political system’s public policy or in the Dahlian dimension of inclusiveness. Policies that exclude groups based on ethnic identity such as old apartheid South Africa or Iranian exclusion of Sunni political parties best conveys systemic political exclusion that is rooted in a regime’s citizenship requirements or public policy.\n\nThe more insidious cause of participation inequality stems from a third dimension that has been recently added to Dahl’s two-dimensional evaluation of political systems: institutions. In this framework, institutions implement political rights and procedures guaranteed by the state. Institutional causes for participation inequality can include literacy tests, extensive citizenship requirements, sparse voting booths in rural or poor areas, and a lack of public transportation. These all affect the ability of citizens to properly exercise guaranteed rights like voting.\n\nInstitutional causes of participation inequality can also be mitigated or exacerbated by cultural norms. Most often high voter turnout usually is hailed as a marker for a democratically responsive nation; however, in India “the turnout rate among the poor is almost as high as for those who are either middle class or rich. A detailed study of voter participation reported for the 2009 national elections shows that voter participation rates do not seem to vary by income status at all…Recent studies report similar findings from Africa and Latin America (Bratton 2008; Boot & Seligson 2008)”. Many of these studies conclude that in developing democracies voting acts as a reassurance of social status or worth in the eyes of the state. This cultural norm has not translated to more democratically responsive institutions in that “the governments created by these elections are known to neglect the interests of the poor and treat them disrespectfully compared to other income groups”. Nations like India are considered to be exceptions to the general rule that economic status has some bearing on voter participation.\n\nEconomic inequality and educational inequality have often been pointed to as common culprits for political participation inequality. In large part, these two types of inequality are often created and reiterated by political institutions, but most political theorists differentiate these causes for political participation as separate, largely because they are not fully solved by changes in political institutions. While the outcomes of political institutions highly vary from regime to regime, most of the literature finds that high amounts of economic inequality in developed countries depress voter turnout for poorer individuals and increase voter turnout for more affluent individuals (this depends on social cohesion of societies, correlating negatively with affluent political participation when economic inequality is high). Other literature finds that educational inequality depresses voter turnout depending on one’s income level and perceived relative educational status (how one perceives one’s social status and others’ education levels).\n\n"}
{"id": "8753282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8753282", "title": "Polyphony (literature)", "text": "Polyphony (literature)\n\nPolyphony () is a concept taken up by literary theory, speech act theory and linguistics to refer to the simultaneity of points of view and voices within a particular narrative plane. The concept was introduced by Mikhail Bakhtin, using a metaphor based on the musical term polyphony.\n\nBakhtin's primary example of polyphony was Fyodor Dostoevsky's prose. Bakhtin contended that Dostoevsky, unlike previous novelists, did not provide a 'single vision', or describe situations with a 'monological' authorial voice. Instead, he aimed for fully dramatic novels of ideas in which conflicting views and characters are left to develop unevenly. According to Bakhtin, the chief characteristic of Dostoevsky's novels is \"a plurality of independent and unmerged voices and consciousnesses, a genuine polyphony of fully valid voices\". His major characters are, \"by the very nature of his creative design, \"not only objects of authorial discourse but also subjects of their own directly signifying discourse.\"\" (italics in the original)\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11481954", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11481954", "title": "Sacred Journeys", "text": "Sacred Journeys\n\nSacred Journeys: The Conversion of Young Americans to Divine Light Mission is a sociological book about the adherents of the Divine Light Mission in the 1970s. In the work, author James V. Downton, Jr. analyzes a sample group of young Americans, and their conversion process to the ideals of the Divine Light Mission and their relationship with Guru Maharaj Ji, currently known as Prem Rawat.\n\nDownton, a sociologist and professor emeritus of Sociology at the College of Arts and Sciences of the University of Colorado at Boulder, spent one month in an ashram and relied on interviews with eighteen followers, presenting a \"vivid picture of the social and psychologically dynamics which led to their spiritual awakening\". He followed the mission for a period of five years chronicling the followers' personal changes and the evolution of the movement itself. Downton himself later wrote an article in \"Journal for the Scientific Study of Religion\", which explored these issues further. Downton also cited the work again, with co-author Wehr, in an article in \"Journal of Peace Research\" analyzing social activism and its relationship to pacifism.\n\nThe work is cited in other books and academic journal articles in various contexts including religious conversion and de-conversion in religions, cults and new religious movements, spirituality among descendants of Spanish Jews, participation in religion and others.\n\n\"Sacred Journeys\" is a study of conversion into the Divine Light Mission. It includes follow-up information on persons who remained and those who left the movement. [...] The book represents the work of a well-intentioned, compassionate sociologist living in a town where many important events of the Divine Light Mission were occurring. [...] The book has no great insights, no definitive findings and no challenging hypotheses. [...] He [Downton] skillfully intersperses quotations from the guru with his comments. In doing these things, he achieves more than sometimes in the making of books. \"Review of Religious Research, Vol. 21, No. 3. (Summer, 1980).\"\n\"Sacred Journeys\" was also reviewed in \"The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10475983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10475983", "title": "Sea bed logging", "text": "Sea bed logging\n\nSea bed logging is an alternative name for the technique of controlled source electro-magnetic (CSEM) to determine the presence of resistive bodies beneath the waters of the continental shelf.\n"}
{"id": "27102838", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27102838", "title": "Secondary predicate", "text": "Secondary predicate\n\nA secondary predicate is a (mostly adjectival) predicative expression that conveys information about the subject or the object but is not the main predicate of the clause. This structure may be analysed in many different ways.\n\nThese may be resultative, as in (1) and (2) or descriptive (also called \"depictive\") as in (3).\n\nOptional depictive secondary predicates are viewed as \"predicative adjuncts\" by some linguists. (Huddleston & Pullum 2002)\nWithin the Role and Reference Grammar framework secondary predicates are not not considered adjuncts because by definition of predication they cannot appear in a periphery. They are treated as connected to the primary predicate via a core juncture with a cosubordinate nexus. (Ullrich 2018)\n\n"}
{"id": "33092988", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33092988", "title": "SobekCM", "text": "SobekCM\n\nSobekCM (alternately Sobek and Sobek CM) is an open-source software engine and suite of associated tools for digital libraries and digital repositories for galleries, libraries, archives, museums, colleges, universities, scholarly research projects as with the Digital Humanities, Research Data Collections, and more. The SobekCM software was developed initially at the University of Florida Libraries by Mark V. Sullivan, with much input from UF and collaborative partners, and ongoing development supported by the full team at the UF Libraries and the larger collaborative community. The largest digital repositories powered by SobekCM are the University of Florida Digital Collections (UFDC) and the Digital Library of the Caribbean (dLOC).\n\nWithin the University of Florida Libraries, Mark Sullivan began developing SobekCM in June 2005. The system went live in April 2006. In September 2011, Florida's Council of State University Libraries selected SobekCM to power digital libraries across the state with advanced functionality Development on SobekCM is active and ongoing, accelerated by numerous grants. In April 2012, the Jean-Marie Derscheid collection hosted and supported through SobekCM was part of the Center for Research Libraries' Primary Source Award for Access. In March 2012, NEH awarded a grant to the Historic St. Augustine project, another digital collection powered and hosted with SobekCM. Other major grants awarded from 2012-2013 include: the Florida and Puerto Rico Digital Newspaper Project, funded by the National Digital Newspaper Program (NDNP); Pioneer Days in Florida: Diaries and Letters from Settling the Sunshine State, 1800-1900, funded by NHPRC; Archive of Haitian Religion and Culture, funded by NEH; and Diario de Pernambuco Digital Newspaper Project, funded by the Center for Research Libraries' Latin America Materials Project; and the Panama Canal - Preserving a Legacy, Celebrating a Centennial, Leveraging an Extraordinary Human Achievement, funded by IMLS.\n\nSobekCM is programmed in C# has been released as open-source software under GNU GPL. The SobekCM software can be downloaded from the SobekCM Software Download Site and SourceForge. The site also includes documentation for installing and configuring the SobekCM software.\n\nSobekCM is named in part for the Egyptian crocodile god, Sobek. SobekCM's name comes in part of the mythical Sobek's role as a collector of lost things, or \"the idea that as a crocodile, Sobek is the best suited to collecting items upon the Nile.\" SobekCM is Sobek Content Management.\n\n"}
{"id": "33930959", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33930959", "title": "Sriwijaya Kingdom Archaeological Park", "text": "Sriwijaya Kingdom Archaeological Park\n\nSrivijaya archaeological park (), formerly known as Karanganyar archaeological site, is the ancient remnants of a garden and habitation area near the northern bank of Musi river within Palembang vicinity, South Sumatra, Indonesia. Remnants of ancient man-made canals, moats, ponds and artificial islands discovered in this area suggests the site was related with a 9th-century settlement related the Srivijaya empire. Several artifacts, such as Buddhist statues, beads, pottery and Chinese ceramics were found in this area, confirming the area was once a dense human habitation.\n\nThe archaeological park is located in Jalan Syakhyakirti, Kelurahan Karanganyar, Kecamatan Gandus, Palembang, on an alluvial plain of the Musi River near its junction with the Ogan and Kramasan rivers. Before the archeological excavation of the site in the late 1980s, the site of Karanganyar was thought to be a potential site for a Srivijayan political power center. However, immediately after the first excavations, the site, with its waterways, reservoirs, and \"floating islands\" (\"balai kambang\") was thought to be more related with the site of Sultan Mahmud Badaruddin II, early 19th-century leader of the Palembang Sultanate. Mahmud Badaruddin II had acquired the land and had started developing the area, probably to prepare his own burial ground, following a Palembang tradition in which the burial of the members of the royal family were to be done on site surrounded by water flowing into the Musi River. Karanganyar site had indeed been occupied in Srivijayan times, mainly in the 9th-century, however the only traces left of this period are a scatter of surface finds of contemporary artifacts e.g. Chinese ceramics, a few layers of ancient brick wall, and possibly one ancient canal. So far, archaeologists has found nothing in the site that can legitimately assign the Karanganyar site to the Srivijayan dynasty instead of to the Palembang Sultanate. Other archaeological sites to Karanganyar that is related with the 7th - 15th centuries Srivijayan dynasty are the Kambang Unglen, Padang Kapas, Ladang Sirap and Bukit Seguntang, and still for a variety of reasons, identification of confirmed archaeological sites of the Srivijayan period remains ambiguous.\n\nThe Karanganyar site elevation is less than from the surface of Musi river. Located around southwest from Palembang city center or south from Seguntang hill, the site can be accessed with public transportation heading to Tangga Batu.\n\nThe site consists of three sub-sites: Karanganyar 1, 2, and 3. The largest site, Karanganyar 1, takes the plan of a rectangular pond measuring . In the center of the pond are two artificial islands: Nangka () and Cempaka (). Moats measuring () surround Nangka island. Sub-site Karanganyar 2, southwest of the main pond, takes the plan of a small pond with a small square artificial island measuring (). Sub-site Karanganyar 3 is a pond located east of Karanganyar 1 measuring .\n\nSeven canals connected the three sub-sites. Canal 1, identified by locals as Parit Suak Bujang, is the largest and longest, measuring long and wide with both ends connected to the Musi river. The long canal 2 is parallel with canal 1, located south of the Karanganyar 1 and 3 sites. The west end of canal 2 ends in the Karanganyar 2 site, while the east end connects to the Musi river. Canal 1 and Canal 2 are connected by the long canal 3 that runs along the north-south axis located between sub-sites 1 and 3. Parallel to canal 3 are canal 4 and 5 located west of sub-site 1 with their south ends connecting to canal 2. There are two canals, canal 6 and 7, that connect canal 2 with the Musi river in the south side.\n\nAerial photographs taken in 1984 revealed the canal network span in the Karanganyar site, confirming some ancient landscape modifications and man-made water structures. The canals compound is located not far from the location where the Kedukan Bukit Inscription was discovered. Moreover, the Karanganyar site is located not far from Bukit Seguntang, the highest point of Palembang, which is also an important archaeological site containing some archaeological fragments; inscriptions, ancient tombs, as well as an Amaravati-style statue of Buddha.\n\nThe government of South Sumatra province renovated the site to create an archaeological park, and the completion of the park construction was overseen on 22 December 1994 by Indonesian president Suharto. The archaeological park also hosts the Srivijaya Museum, which serves as the information center of Srivijayan history and sites in Palembang. In the center of this site there is a pavilion constructed in Limasan Palembang traditional architecture that contains the replica of the Kedukan Bukit inscription placed in a glass case. The inscription tells the Siddhayatra journey of Dapunta Hyang Sri Jayanasa, considered as the establishment of Srivijayan empire. After having been established for more than a decade, the Srivijaya archaeological park has not fulfilled its expected function as the center of information and education as well as tourist attraction. Because of the lack of information and promotion and poor maintenance, most of the Palembang citizen are unaware of its existence and its function as the center of information about Srivijayan sites in Palembang. All this time both the local government and the people have paid little attention to this archaeological park. Today, the archaeological park is poorly maintained and only attract a few of visitors.\n\nArtifact findings discovered in this area revealed the everyday life of its inhabitants, such as colorful beads, amber, ropes made from arenga pinnata fibers, brick structure, Chinese ceramics, pottery, and the remnant of a wooden ship. Most of these findings were discovered during the construction of the archaeological park. Reconstruction of pottery and ceramics fragments revealed daily domestic objects such as a vase, water vessel, bowl, plate, stove, clay pot, and roof. These domestic artifacts suggest the area was once a dense human habitation.\n\nThe water structures such as canals, ponds and artificial islands also confirm human habitation for long periods. The people that once inhabited the area probably built these canals for water drainage to prevent flooding as well as water transportation to connect the Musi River with inland areas.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1989 archaeological excavation was conducted and discovered fragments of pottery, ceramics, beads, and brick structure. The Chinese ceramics discovered here are dated from Tang, Sung, Yuan and Qing dynasties, spanning the 7th to 19th centuries. Excavation in Cempaka island revealed a brick structure buried deep with east-west axis. Other than canals and the small brick structure, there are no significant building or temple ruins discovered on this site. Archaeology experts suggest the lack of building ruins is because the site is located near a large river surrounded by tropical rainforest with no stone quarry near the area. As the result the temple, palace, and houses were probably built from wood and bricks, organic materials that easily decay and were destroyed by frequent flooding of the river and humidity in less than 200 years.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11792576", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11792576", "title": "Swedish Emigration Commission", "text": "Swedish Emigration Commission\n\nThe Swedish Emigration Commission (), was a commission that existed between 1907 and 1913 that was mandated by the Swedish Riksdag to try to reduce Swedish emigration to the United States. In the 19th century, Sweden had had one of the highest rates of emigration to North America in all of Europe, the third highest after Ireland and Norway. By 1910, one fifth of all Swedes had their homes in America. The situation alarmed conservative Swedes, who regarded emigration as a challenge to national solidarity and to the very nation state itself, already seemingly under threat from trade unionism and the international socialist movement. The liberal interest, which had in the 19th century favored emigration as a practical necessity, by now also saw it as a net drain, depriving Sweden of the labor necessary for economic development. Both camps shared a perception, disturbing in a Europe where the forces of war were gathering, that young, male Swedes were fleeing to America to escape military service. \n\nThe conservative and nationalist parties proposed dealing with the problem by restrictions, the liberal and Social Democrat parties by social and economic reform. Despite such ideological faultlines, it was with broad national consensus that a Parliamentary Emigration Commission was mandated to study the problem in 1907. Led by the liberal academic Gustav Sundbärg, the Commission went to work with \"characteristic Swedish thoroughness\", and published its findings in 21 volumes of exhaustive data on social and economic conditions in Sweden and America, together with Sundbärg's analysis and proposals. As Sundbärg put it, to discuss the emigration meant to discuss Sweden in its entirety. The conservative parties proposed legal restrictions on emigration propaganda, emigrant agents, and emigration by military conscripts. In the end, all such authoritarian measures were dismissed by the Commission, which instead went with Sundbärg's goal of bringing the best sides of America to Sweden (unsurprisingly, as Sundbärg himself wrote the conclusions). First on his list of urgent reforms were universal male suffrage, better housing, general economic development, and a broader popular education which could counteract \"class and caste differences.\" \n\nClass inequality in the hierarchic Swedish society was a strong theme in the findings of the Commission. It appeared as a major motivating force in the summarized case histories of outbound Swedish emigrants, interviewed in Hull and Liverpool, which were published in Volume VII. The motif was also typical of the personal documents—of greater human and research interest today—which were included in the same volume. Those were narratives submitted by anonymous Swedes in Canada and the US in response to solicitations by the Commission in Swedish-American newspapers. 289 of them were also published in Volume VII, with the individuals identified by initials, state of residence, and year of emigration. Barton warns that, statistically, the response to the Commission's newspaper appeal will be slanted towards individuals with particularly strong views; yet their experiences remain illuminating. The great majority were enthusiastic over their new homeland, and critical of conditions in Sweden. They describe particularly the grim poverty in the Swedish countryside, the hard work, pitiful wages, and discouraging prospects. One woman wrote from North Dakota of how in her Värmland home parish, she had had to go out and earn her living in peasant households from the age of eight, starting work at four in the morning and living on \"rotten herring and potatoes, served out in small amounts so that I would not eat myself sick.\" She could see \"no hope of saving anything in case of illness, but rather I could see the poorhouse waiting for me in the distance.\" When she was seventeen, her emigrated brothers sent her a prepaid ticket to America, and \"the hour of freedom struck.\" The emigrants also strongly emphasized non-material considerations, such as the exclusion of the poor from the political process, through the restrictive Swedish franchise before 1907. Bitter experiences of Swedish class snobbery still rankled after sometimes 40–50 years in America. A man who'd emigrated in 1868 described the disparaging comments he had heard in his youth from the aristocrat in charge of the parish poor relief, which \"gave rise to great bitterness and a large number, among them myself, emigrated to America, which I have never regretted. Here, you are treated like a human being, wherever you are.\"\n\nA year after the Commission published its last volume, World War I broke out and reduced emigration to a mere trickle. There was a brief upswing after the war, but from the mid-1920s, there was no longer any Swedish mass emigration. Did the ambitious Emigration Commission have any part in solving the problem? Franklin D. Scott argued in an influential essay in 1965 that it had very little, and that the American Immigration Act of 1924 was the effective cause. Barton, by contrast, points to the rapid implementation of essentially all the Commission's recommendations, from industrialization to an array of social reforms, and maintains that its findings \"must have had a powerful cumulative effect upon Sweden's leadership and broader public opinion.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "41100630", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41100630", "title": "Taiwan studies", "text": "Taiwan studies\n\nTaiwan studies is a multi-disciplinary academic division of area studies (a part of East Asian studies) focused on studying Taiwan and the people on/in/of Taiwan both on its own and in comparison with other world areas. Academia Sinica, Taiwan's national level research institute, officially inaugurated its Institute of Taiwan History in 2004 following a long exploratory period beginning in 1986. Taiwan studies departments and centers have been established in numerous universities around the world (see below for a list) and key Taiwan studies organizations have been established in North America (NATSA), Europe (EATS), and Japan (JATS). The first \"World Congress of Taiwan Studies (WCTS)\" was hosted by Taiwan's Academia Sinica on April 26–28, 2012, in Taipei, Taiwan. More recently, China has begun to establish its own controversial version of Taiwan studies in the United States via its Confucius Institutes.\n\nAs with all area studies, funding and interest in Taiwan studies has largely followed American and other nations' changing political interests. Japanese interest in Taiwan studies preceded significant Western interest in the island and its diverse set of people beginning as a part of maintaining its own colonial interests there (Taiwan was a Japanese colony from 1895-1945), and continuing in a post-colonial mode following the handover of Taiwan to the Republic of China (ROC) following its defeat in World War II. An early peak of interest by Western scholars in studying Taiwan occurred following the defeat of the Kuomintang (KMT) in the Chinese civil war and its subsequent retreat to Taiwan beginning in 1947. With China's Communist Party taking power in mainland China, the mainland quickly became off-limits for the vast majority of Western sinologists (exceptions included William Hinton, author of Fan Shen). This closing off, in concert with the United States' strong political and military support for Taiwan and British Hong Kong as bulwarks against Communist expansion, ushered in a \"golden age\" for the study of China beyond China, including increasing studies of \"Chinese\" in Hong Kong and Taiwan. Following diplomatic shifts of recognition away from the Taiwan-based ROC towards the China-based PRC beginning in the late 1970s and picking up speed with China's reform and opening, academics once again began to shift their focus on China to the mainland. Western academic interest in Taiwan continued at a lower rate with a relatively strong focus on the politics of Taiwan-China-United States relations across the Taiwan Straits.\n\nLeading up to the end of martial law in Taiwan in 1987, a space began to open up for criticism of KMT authoritarian rule and the beginnings of discussions of a history of the people of the geographic islands of Taiwan. Previous history textbooks that students in martial law Taiwan studied from began history centered on dynastic events in China and only shifted focus to the island the students lived on as the KMT retreated to Taiwan in 1947. This Taiwanization movement suggested instead that it was worthwhile to study the local history of Taiwan itself: a history which included long periods of habitation by disparate groups of aboriginal peoples, early colonizations by European powers, rule by Koxinga (Zheng Chenggong), waves of migrations of Hok'lo and then Hakka Chinese people from mainland China, a short period of nominal Qing \"Chinese\" Rule, and a Japanese colonial period all prior to the establishment of Taiwan as the base of power of the ROC in exile. In academia, Taiwanization and democratization in Taiwan brought about a new interest in studying Taiwan and its people without assuming that they are representative of something, or at least of a single something, \"Chinese.\"\n\nTaiwan studies today involves a wide range of disciplines in the humanities and social sciences both in Taiwan and beyond it that work to take Taiwan itself as a central subject of analysis. This includes not just work on Taiwanese or Aboriginal groups on Taiwan, but also includes comparative work as well as work that focuses on cross-straits issues and \"Chinese\" (or Han, Hok'lo, or Hakka) cultures as instantiated on Taiwan. The biggest difference in the latter work is that Taiwan studies scholars who study \"Chinese\" culture on Taiwan do so with an understanding of the vast range of historical, political, and economic influences on Taiwan's people that have been completely different from those that have influenced \"Chinese\" heritage peoples in, for example, Hong Kong, Singapore, or the PRC.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46956771", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46956771", "title": "Tami Katz-Freiman", "text": "Tami Katz-Freiman\n\nTami Katz-Freiman (born 1955, Israel), former Chief Curator of the Haifa Museum of Art, is an art historian, curator and critic, based in Miami, Florida, where she works as an independent curator of contemporary art.\n\nFrom 2005-2010 she was the Chief Curator of the HMA (Haifa Museum of Art) in Israel. She started her curatorial practice in 1992 and over the years she has curated numerous group and solo exhibitions in prominent museums in Israel and the US, where she lived and worked also between 1994 and 1999. In the years 2008-2010 she was teaching Feminism and Contemporary Art at the Department of Art History at the Tel Aviv University and curatorial studies at the International Curatorial Program of the Kalisher School of Art and Technology in Tel Aviv. In addition to essays for catalogues and books published in conjunction with the exhibitions she has curated, Katz-Freiman has written numerous articles, essays, and reviews addressing various issues in contemporary art. In 2012 she curated two major exhibitions: Critical Mass: Contemporary Art from India for the new wing of the Tel Aviv Museum of Art and UNNATURAL for the Bass Museum of Art, Miami Beach. She is a board member of AIRIE and a member of IKT and AICA/USA, the International Association of Art Critics.\n\nUNNATURAL, Bass Museum of Art, Miami Beach\nCritical Mass: Contemporary Art from India (co-curated with Rotem Ruff), Tel Aviv Museum of Art\n\nShelf Life (co-curated with Rotem Ruff), Haifa Museum of Art\n\nWild Exaggeration: The Grotesque Body in Contemporary Art, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nKader Attia: Who Cares?, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nBoysCraft, Haifa Museum of Art (trilogy, part III)\n\nMixed Emotions, Haifa Museum of Art (trilogy, part I)\n\nFatamorgana: Illusion and Deception in Contemporary Art, Haifa Museum of Art (trilogy, part II)\n\nLove is in the Air – Time for Love: Images of Romantic Love in Contemporary Israeli Art, Time for Art: Israeli Art Center, Tel Aviv\n\nOverCraft: Obsession, Decoration and Biting Beauty, The Art Gallery, Haifa University, Haifa, Artists House, Tel Aviv\n\nTime Capsule: Contemporary Art and Archaeology, Art in General, New York City\n\nHavana Nagila: Cuba-Israel Dialogue, Chelouche Gallery, Noga Gallery of Contemporary Art, Julie M. Gallery, and the Tel Aviv Artists’ Studios\nMount Miami: American Artists in Tel Aviv, The Tel Aviv Artists’ Studios\n\nDesert Cliché: Israel Now – Local Images (co-curated with Amy Cappellazzo), Arad Museum, Israel; Museum of Art, Ein Harod, Israel; Bass Museum of Art, Miami Beach, Florida; Grey Art Gallery & Study Center of New York University; Nexus Contemporary Art Center, Atlanta; Yerba Buena Center for the Arts, San Francisco\n\nMeta-Sex94: Identity, Body and Sexuality, Museum of Art, Ein Harod, Israel\n\nAntipathos: Black Humor, Irony and Cynicism in Contemporary Israeli Art, The Israel Museum, Jerusalem\n\nPostscipts: “End” Representations in Contemporary Israeli Art, The Genia Schreiber University Art Gallery, Tel Aviv University\n\nTami Katz-Freiman, \"Master of Concealments: On the Traps of Appropriations in Jasper Johns’ Work\" in: The Beauty of Japheth in the Tents of Shem: Studies in Honour of Mordechai Omer, Assaph 2010, Studies in Art History, Vols. 13-14, Tel Aviv University, pp. 335–351\n\nTami Katz-Freiman, \"Craftsmen in the Factory of Images,\" from BoysCraft in: The Craft Reader (edited by Glenn Adamson), Berg, Oxford, New York, 2010 pp. 596–605\n\nTami Katz-Freiman, \"'Don’t Touch My Holocaust': Israeli Artists Challenging the Holocaust Taboo\", a paper for the International conference: Representing the Holocaust: Practices, Products, Projections, Berman Center of Jewish Studies, Lehigh University, Pennsylvania in: Impossible Images: Contemporary Art After the Holocaust, New York University Press\n\nTami Katz-Freiman, \"Bad Girls: The Israeli Version – Contemporary Women Artists in Israel,\" in: Jewish Feminism in Israel: Some Contemporary Perspectives (edited by Kaplana Misra and Malanie Rich), Brandeis University Press, New England\n\nFrom Skins to Landscape: on Agustina Woodgate’s Rug Collection, an essay for Agustina Woodgate: Rugs, Art and Culture Center of Hollywood\n\nFrom Body Politics to Conflict Politics: Aziz + Cucher Come Out of the (Biography) Closet, an essay for Aziz + Cucher: Some People, The Indianapolis Museum of Art\n\nCritical Mass: Beyond Aesthetics (written with co-curator Rotem Ruff), an essay for Critical Mass: Contemporary Art from India, Tel Aviv Museum of Art\n\nNature Has No Copyright, an essay for UNNATURAL, Bass Museum of Art\n\nCollecting is a Form of Uprooting – An Encounter Between Self and Object, an essay for Shelf Life (co-curated with Rotem Ruff), Haifa Museum of Art, Israel\n\nExaggeration is Twice as Real, an essay for Wild Exaggeration: The Grotesque Body in Contemporary Art, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nCraftsmen in the Factory of Images, an essay for BoysCraft, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nThe Road to Happiness: On Cultural Conflict, Desire, and Illusion in the Work of Kader Attia, an essay for Kader Attia’s monography, Musee d’art contemporain, Lyon\n\nThe Industry of Emotions / Or: I Feel, Therefore, I Am, an essay for Mixed Emotions, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nFatamorgana: The Magic Lantern of Consciousness, an essay for Fatamorgana: Illusion and Deception in Contemporary Art, Haifa Museum of Art\n\nDancing with Barbed Wire, an essay on Sigalit Landau for Memorials of Identity: New Media from the Rubell Family Collection, Miami\n\nLove is in the Air: Quick Introduction to Romantic Love, an essay for Love is in the Air, Time for Art: Israeli Art Center, Tel Aviv\n\nOverCraft: The God of Small Details, an essay for OverCraft, The Art Gallery, Haifa University and Artists House, Tel Aviv\n\nA Matter of Distance, a catalogue essay for Desert Cliché: Israel Now – Local Images, Bass Museum, Miami Beach\nMeta-Sex 94: Identity, Body and Sexuality, a catalogue essay for Meta-Sex 94, Museum of Art, Ein Harod\n\nAntipathos: Black Humor, Irony and Cynicism in Contemporary Israeli Art, a catalogue essay for Antipathos, The Israel Museum, Jerusalem\n\n“Hastily the World Hastens to Pass Away…”, a catalogue essay for Postscripts: “End”- Representations in Contemporary Israeli Art, The Genia Schreiber University Art Gallery, Tel Aviv University\n"}
{"id": "8751628", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8751628", "title": "The Jurist (painting)", "text": "The Jurist (painting)\n\nThe Jurist (), also known as The Lawyer, is an oil-on-canvas painting by Italian artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo, painted in 1566.\n\nIt shows a member of the legal profession, whose facial features are depicted using meat and fish, and whose body is composed of legal documents. Two versions of the painting exist; the first, from 1566, is held by the National Museum of Fine Arts (Nationalmuseum) in Stockholm (acquired from a collection at Gripsholm Castle in 1866), and a later version is held by a private collector in Milan.\n\nArcimboldo was employed as court painter to Maximilian II and was already well established as an artist by the time he created \"The Jurist\". He was known for his innovative style, particularly for his portraits in which the subjects were composed of everyday objects. His fantastical and imaginative paintings somewhat foreshadowed the Surrealist movement of the 20th century, but were also appreciated as part of the Mannerist tradition of his own time. His series of paintings, \"The Four Seasons\", which depicted the changing seasons as series of portraits composed of seasonal plants, were particularly popular, and he even created a portrait of Rudolf II (entitled \"Vertemnus\") in the same style.\n\nThe features of the face are represented by the plucked carcasses of poultry and the sneering mouth by fish. It is not known if the subject is a caricature of the legal profession in general or based on a real jurist of the time. The German jurist Ulrich Zasius is normally suggested as the subject; the Nationalmuseum lists the picture in its catalogue as \"The Lawyer (Ulrich Zasius)\", but Calvin has also been suggested. Arcimboldo's portrait of \"The Librarian\" (\"Il Bibliotecario\"), painted the same year, has a more noble aspect, although this portrait too has been interpreted as a parody of librarianship, book collectors, and intellectualism.\n"}
{"id": "58960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58960", "title": "Timeline of medicine and medical technology", "text": "Timeline of medicine and medical technology\n\nTimeline of the history of medicine and medical technology.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "33890806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33890806", "title": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1899", "text": "United Nations Security Council Resolution 1899\n\nUnited Nations Security Council Resolution 1899 was unanimously adopted on 16 December 2009.\n\nThe Security Council today renewed the mandate of the United Nations Disengagement Observer Force (UNDOF), which has supervised the ceasefire between Israel and Syria since 1974, for the next six months until 30 June 2010.\n\nUnanimously adopting resolution 1899 (2009), the Council also called for the implementation of its resolution 338 of 1973, which required immediate negotiations between the parties with the aim of establishing a just and lasting peace in the Middle East.\n\nIn conjunction with the adoption of the resolution, Council President Michel Kafando (Burkina Faso) read out a statement (to be issued as document S/PRST/2009/34) reiterating that tension in the region would remain until such a just and lasting peace in the region could be reached.\n\nSecretary-General Ban Ki-moon, in his latest report on UNDOF (document S/2009/597), recommends extending the Force’s mandate, noting that, while the situation in the Golan Heights has been “generally quiet”, the overall region is tense. He encourages the parties to resume the indirect peace talks initiated under the auspices of Turkey and aimed at a comprehensive peace, in accordance with the Madrid Conference terms of reference.\n\nHe also drew attention to the amount of unpaid assessments for the Force, which stood at $19.1 million on 30 September. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "30548896", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30548896", "title": "Walter Baetke", "text": "Walter Baetke\n\nWalter Hugo Hermann Baetke (28 March 1884, Sternberg in der Neumark – 15 February 1978, Leipzig) was a German professor of Scandinavian studies and religious studies. He was Professor of the History of Religion at the University of Leipzig.\n\nBaetke's father, Wilhelm Baetke, was a police official. Baetke attended a \"gymnasium\" in Stettin. From 1902 to 1907, Baetke studied Germanic studies, English studies, education and philosophy at the Universities of Halle and Berlin, graduating from Halle in 1907 with a qualification to teach in higher education and earning a doctorate in English there in 1908 with a thesis on children in the works of Shakespeare's contemporaries and successors. He then worked as a school examiner and at another \"gymnasium\" in Stettin and from 1913 to 1935 was head of a school in Bergen auf Rügen. After one year teaching the history of Germanic religion at the University of Greifswald, he was appointed Professor of the History of Religion at the University of Leipzig in 1936. In 1946 he received an honorary doctorate from the Faculty of Theology and was also appointed to an additional position as Professor of Nordic Philology. He also headed the university's Institute for the History of Religion. From 1947 to 1949, he was Dean of the Faculty of Philosophy. He retired in 1955 but from 1955 to 1959 held an emeritus position as \"commissar\" of the Institute for the History of Religion and the Old Norse division of the Institute for Germanic Studies.\n\nHis academic work focussed on ancient Germanic religion, on which he published extensively. Already before World War II, he was known as \"a critic of romantic excess\" in interpretations. In his 1934 \"Art und Glaube der Germanen\", he rejected Herman Wirth's view of the genuineness and importance of the \"Oera Linda Book\" and also systematically opposed Bernhard Kummer's views in \"Midgards Untergang\". In 1942 in \"Das Heilige im Germanischen\", he opposed Rudolf Otto's influential viewpoint that the source of religion lay in a \"stirring in the heart\" of awareness of the numinous, arguing that all religious experience has a social and historical context. In \"Yngvi und die Ynglinger\" (1964) he dismissed the widely accepted view espoused by, for example, Otto Höfler that Germanic peoples had sacral kingship. The issue and his arguments are still debated today: in a re-examination in 2004, Olof Sundqvist substantially agreed, finding that \"this paradigm [sacral kingship] implies a number of methodological difficulties\"; Francis Oakley, however, argued in 2010 that although Baetke successfully rebutted the notion that Scandinavian kings were worshipped, he could not dismiss the evidence that they had some sacral status as mediators with the gods.\n\nBaetke joined the conservative German National People's Party in 1926 and was a member until 1932. From 1934 until the end of the war, he belonged to the National Socialist People's Welfare organisation. However, he never joined the Nazi Party or any of its subsidiaries, including the Reich Author's Organisation, and during the war his election to the examining board of the Faculty of Theology at the University of Leipzig and to the Saxon Academy of Sciences both went unratified by the regime. In 1946 he joined the SPD and subsequently became a member of the Socialist Unity Party of Germany, the official party of the Soviet Occupation Zone and later of East Germany. He was a member of the Confessing Church and was a delegate to the conference of the World Council of Churches in Amsterdam in 1948 from the Evangelical Lutheran Church of Saxony.\n\nBaetke was married twice: in 1911 to Agnes Kirsten (1885–1945) and in 1948 to Erna Knegendorf (1903–2000). Both his wives were teachers.\n\n\nIn 1949/50 Baetke lectured at the Universities of Lund and Uppsala, the first German academic to be invited to do so in Sweden since the war.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22754690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22754690", "title": "Women's Prison Association", "text": "Women's Prison Association\n\nThe Women's Prison Association (WPA), founded 1845, is the oldest advocacy group for women in the United States. The organization has historically focused on New York City and New York State issues. Since 2004 it has developed the Institute on Women & Criminal Justice, to focus a national conversation on women and criminal justice. \n\nMost of WPA's clients in its early years were poor Irish immigrants with alcohol dependency. While the ethnicity of the clients of the association has shifted over time, the organization throughout its history has dealt with the effects of poverty and substance abuse.\n\nThe WPA has its origins in the Prison Association of New York (now the Correctional Association), founded by Isaac T. Hopper, who had also been active as an abolitionist Quaker. A task force was set up to investigate the conditions facing incarcerated women New York, and it was established in January 1845 as the Female Department of the Prison Association. Prominent members included Hopper's daughter Abigail Hopper Gibbons and novelist Catharine Sedgwick.\n\nFrom the outset, the Female Department criticized New York City-area prisons as inadequate, urging that \"a home needs to be provided for the homeless; other doors need to be open to them than those that lead to deeper infamy.\" By the summer of 1845, the Female Department founded Hopper Home, what would today be called a halfway house, focused on training and rehabilitation of former prisoners or homeless. The Home was originally on Fourth Street near Eighth Avenue in Manhattan; it later moved to 191 Tenth Avenue. In 1874, it was moved to its present building at 110 Second Avenue.\n\nIn 1853, the Female Department separated from the Prison Association and was chartered by New York State as the Women's Prison Association, with Abigail Gibbons as its leader. The association gained influence. Some of its battles—such as against overcrowded jails— have been perpetual, but WPA lobbying has achieved policy and program changes. For instance, female matrons were hired in all state penal facilities holding women prisoners, a separate reformatory for women and girls was established in Bedford, New York, and the policy was adopted that women prisoners would be searched only by female matrons.\n\nIn the 1930s, in the face of the economic exigencies of the Great Depression, the Women's Prison Association was the first women's group to call for the decriminalization of prostitution.\n\nAfter more than a century of operation, the WPA received its first governmental funding in the 1960s; the funding came from the federal government. In the 1980s, Hopper Home was contracted as a federal work release facility, but that contract ended in 1990.\n\nIn the face of the rapid increase in the 1990s of the number of incarcerated women, WPA began to develop as a larger-scale provider of more diverse services. Hopper Home was renovated in 1992 as a residential alternative to incarceration (ATI) program, mainly for women with drug charges. In 1993, the WPA opened the Sarah Powell Huntington House (SPHH), a transitional residence that allows homeless women who have become involved with the criminal justice system to reunite with their children.\n\nIn this same period, WPA established a variety of programs for HIV-positive women involved in the New York criminal justice system. 25% of criminal justice-involved women in New York are HIV-positive. WPA programs include education and discharge planning in the city jail and state prisons, as well as case management services that can providing continuity after release. WPA coordinates inmate-peer HIV/AIDS education and support programs at Bedford Hills Correctional Facility for Women and Taconic Correctional Facility.\n\nBased on its successes in this area, WPA began to extend discharge planning and transitional services to women who are not HIV-positive. Their first such program was established at Rikers Island in 2000. From 2001, WPA has operated WomenCare, a program providing mentoring services to women leaving New York jail and prison systems.\n\nOther current WPA projects include the Incarcerated Mother's Law Project (IMLP), founded in 1994 and co-sponsored with the Volunteers of Legal Services (VOLS). South Brooklyn Legal Services and the Center for Family Representation have joined this project. The program provides workshops for incarcerated mothers to aid them in dealing with visitation and family court issues. IMLP began at New York state prisons, but has expanded to women in the New York City jail and to women in WPA's community-based services.\n\nGiven the small number of New York City neighborhoods that are the origin of a large percentage of New York's prison population, since the late 1990s WPA has concentrated on one of these neighborhoods, the East New York area of Brooklyn. WPA established its Brooklyn Community Office (BCO) in 1999, to address the web of poverty, poor housing, health problems, and child abuse and neglect. The hope is that intensive case management cab break the cycle of substance abuse and child abuse and/or neglect, and keep families intact. The program, which partners with several other organizations, expanded in 2005 to work also in the adjacent neighborhoods of Bushwick and Brownsville.\n\nIn addition to its locally focused work, in 2004 WPA founded the Institute on Women & Criminal Justice \"to create a national conversation on women and criminal justice in relation to families and communities.\"\n\n\n"}
