{"id": "54667600", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54667600", "title": "4th Pyramid", "text": "4th Pyramid\n\nAdam Farag, professionally known as 4th Pyramid, is a hip hop recording artist, producer, songwriter and DJ from Toronto, Ontario of Egyptian descent. He is currently the official DJ for Toronto rapper and Juno-award winner, Jazz Cartier.\n\nPyramid entered the hip hop scene with the release of his self-produced debut album, \"The Light is But a Shade of the Darkness',\" an instrumental full-length. Chuck D of Public Enemy handpicked 4th Pyramid's 'Wallabee Strut' as one of the best 100 MP3s of 2000.\" \"He was signed to rap label Definitive Jux, owned by El-P (Run the Jewels), and appeared on the album Definitive Jux Presents III. During this time, he also collaborated with label mates including Cannibal Ox and Camu Tao.\n\n4th Pyramid released his debut solo rap album \"The Pyramid Scheme\" in 2012 after signing a deal with Universal Music Canada. The album included the single \"It's So Hot\" featuring Greg Nice of Nice and Smooth in 2010. The track was featured in the film 21 and Over and also appeared on the film's soundtrack. The album also included collaborations with Saukrates, Marco Polo & more. In 2013, he released the EP \"The Sky Belongs To The Stars\" which included the single \"Friday Nights\" produced by Grandtheft. He has toured with Wu-Tang Clan, ASAP Rocky, De La Soul, Elzhi, The Pharcyde and others.\n\n4th has produced and engineered tracks for the Black Eyed Peas, members of Wu-Tang Clan, Pete Rock and others.\n\n4th Pyramid formed the DJ group, \"Sheen Bros\" with Philadelphia DJ, Cosmo Baker and they released several mixtapes together and an EP through the Scion/AV label. 4th Pyramid continues to DJ internationally and is currently the official DJ for Capitol Records recording artist, Jazz Cartier. The two have toured Europe, North America and Canada including a tour with Post Malone.\n"}
{"id": "2805764", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2805764", "title": "Abdallah al-Adil", "text": "Abdallah al-Adil\n\nAbu Muhammad ʿAbdallah 'al-ʿAdil' ( \"ʿAbd Allāh\"; d. October 4, 1227) was an Almohad Caliph of Morocco, a former governor in al-Andalus who challenged and secured the murder of his predecessor, Abd al-Wahid I. His 1224 coup ushered in a period of instability that lasted well beyond his own death in 1227. He is often regarded as one of the most disastrous of Almohad caliphs. His coup divided the Almohads and set in motion the loss of al-Andalus and the eventual collapse of the Almohad state.\n\nAbu Muhammad Abdallah was a son of Almohad conqueror Yaqub al-Mansur and a brother of the famous caliph Muhammad al-Nasir. Along with his other brothers, Abdallah served as an Almohad governor in al-Andalus.\n\nFollowing the premature death of his nephew, the young Caliph Yusuf II al-Mustansir, without heirs, in January 1224, the Marrakesh palace bureaucrats, led by the vizier Abu Sa'id Uthman ibn Jami'i and the regional Masmuda tribal sheikhs, engineered the election of his elderly grand-uncle as the new caliph Abd al-Wahid I, and presented it to the remaining Almohad family members as a \"fait accompli\". Abdallah, then governing in Murcia, and his brothers, Abu al-'Ala Idris (governing in Córdoba), Abu Musa (in Málaga) and Abu al-Hassan (in Granada), who formed a powerful clique in Almohad hierarchy, were upset at the hastiness and the probable unconstitutionality of the Marrakesh proceedings. Moreover, Abd al-Wahid I, despite his age, had a distinguished record and centralizing tendencies, and was less likely to give the brothers free rein in al-Andalus as the young, neglectful Yusuf II had done.\n\nThe Almohad dynasty had never had a disputed succession. Despite disagreements, they had always loyally lined up behind the elected caliph, so rebellion was no casual matter. But Abdallah was soon visited in Murcia by the shadowy figure of Abu Zayd ibn Yujjan, a former high bureaucrat in Marrakesh, whose fall had been engineered some years earlier by al-Jami'i, and was now serving a sentence of exile nearby in Chinchilla (Albacete). Ibn Yujjan persuaded Abdallah to contest the election, assuring him of his high connections in the Marrakesh palace and among the Masmuda sheikhs. In consultation with his brothers, Abdallah soon declared himself as the new Almohad caliph, taking up the caliphal title of \"al-Adil\" (\"the Just\" or \"the Justicer\") and immediately seized Seville, and began make preparations to march on Marrakesh and confront Abd al-Wahid I. But Ibn Yajjan had already pulled on his Moroccan connections. Before the end of the summer, Abu Zakariya, the sheikh of the Hintata tribe, and Yusuf ibn Ali, governor of Tinmal, declared for al-Adil, seized the Marrakesh palace, deposed the caliph and expelled al-Jami'i and his coterie. The fallen caliph Abd al-Wahid I was murdered by strangulation in September 1224.\n\nAbdallah al-Adil's murderous breach of dynastic precedence and constitutional propriety shocked the rest of the Almohads. But Abdallah and his brothers were dominant in al-Andalus, and had little trouble imposing themselves on the province, replacing those who refused to recognize the usurpation. In Spain, everyone fell in line, with the notable exception of three of Abdallah's cousins, (the sons of Abu Abd Allah Muhammad ibn Abi Hafs, the powerful governor of Ifriqiya): Abu Zayd (governor of Valencia), Abd Allah (governor of Jaén) and Abu Dabbus. They were promptly deprived of their posts. The Jaén governor, Abd Allah (nicknamed \"al-Bayyasi\", the Baezan), took a small group of followers and set up camp in the hills of Baeza, calling for open rebellion against al-Adil.\n\nIn Morocco, Abdallah al-Adil's coup had barely succeeded. Many (most?) of the Masmuda tribal sheikhs, unwilling to see the balance in the Almohad coalition swinging into the hands of the Almohads of Spain, invoked their constitutional role, and refused to ratify al-Adil's usurpation, rallying instead around the figure of his nephew Yahya, the son of al-Nasir. With the coup in danger of being reversed, Abdallah al-Adil made the fateful decision to begin shipping the bulk of the Almohad forces in Spain across the straits to Morocco, intending to march on Marrakesh and imposing himself on the sheikhs.\n\nEager to depart, al-Adil undertook only a half-hearted effort to dislodge al-Bayyasi from the hills of Baeza in the winter of 1224-25. The campaign proved a humiliation – al-Bayyasi's little band of followers managed to fend off the much larger armies that al-Adil sent after them. Al-Adil quickly acquired a reputation for incompetence and poor military skills, which spread across the water to Morocco, emboldening the recusants and shaking the confidence of his allies. Determined to seize Marrakesh before it was too late, al-Adil decided to ignore al-Bayyasi and stepped up the transportation of troops. Al-Bayyasi, in the meantime, struck up an alliance with the hitherto quiet Ferdinand III of Castile. Bemused at the turn of events, and delighted at the evacuation of Almohad troops, Ferdinand sensed an opportunity and decided to lend al-Bayyasi a large Castilian army.\n\nIn 1225, al-Bayyasi's band, accompanied by the Castilian army, descended from the Baeza hills. With al-Andalus practically denuded of Almohad troops, they ravaged the lands of Jaén, the vega de Granada and by the end of the summer, al-Bayyasi had captured the city of Córdoba. Seeing the vacuity, Alfonso IX of Leon and Sancho II of Portugal also took the opportunity to launch their own raids. Caceres held up the Leonese, but the Portuguese raiders, facing no opposition, advanced rapidly and reached the outskirts of Seville in late 1225.\n\nIt is reported that the Caliph Al-Adil, his minister Abu Zayd ibn Yajjan and leading Almohad commanders were at that moment in Seville, but they did not have the manpower to challenge the Christian army in the open. As a result, the Portuguese raiders ravaged the outlying areas with impunity. At length, the civilian population of Seville, disgusted at the inactivity of the Almohad rulers, decided to take matters into their own hands. A popular levy was raised in the city and marched out on their own to meet the Portuguese in the field. It was a massacre. The Portuguese men-at-arms mowed down the poorly armed townsfolk. Thousands – in one report as much as 20,000 – were slain before the walls of Seville.\n\nBlame for the Seville massacre – and other disasters – was placed fully on the incompetence and cowardice of Caliph al-Adil and his Almohad lieutenants. But al-Adil's fortunes soon turned. Al-Bayyasi had promised three frontier fortresses to Ferdinand III in payment for his services. But one of the fortresses, Capilla, refused to pass over. The Castilians were forced to lay a long and difficult siege. The brave defiance of little Capilla, and al-Bayyasi's shipping of provisions to the Castilian besiegers, soon turned opinion against him and back towards the Almohad Caliph. An uprising in Cordoba followed, al-Bayyasi was killed and his head dispatched to the Caliph in Marrakesh.\n\nBut Abdallah al-Adil did not relish this victory for long. On October 4, 1227, he was drowned in a palace bathtub, and his nephew and rival was elected as the new Almohad Caliph Yahya 'al-Mutasim'.\n\n"}
{"id": "11310857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11310857", "title": "Aberoh and Atom", "text": "Aberoh and Atom\n\nAberoh and Atom are martyrs of the Christian church.\n\nThese brothers were citizens of Gamnudi in Egypt. They fled Gamnudi during a persecution for Pelusium (then Farama). They were arrested at Alexandria and tortured. After being dismissed by the prefect, they went next to Baramon, where they were beheaded. Their relics were returned to Gamnudi. Their feast day is July 2 in the Coptic Church.\n\n"}
{"id": "2661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2661", "title": "Affection", "text": "Affection\n\nAffection, attraction, infatuation, or fondness is a \"disposition or state of mind or body\" that is often associated with a feeling or type of love. It has given rise to a number of branches of philosophy and psychology concerning emotion, disease, influence, and state of being. \"Affection\" is popularly used to denote a feeling or type of love, amounting to more than goodwill or friendship. Writers on ethics generally use the word to refer to distinct states of feeling, both lasting and spasmodic. Some contrast it with \"passion\" as being free from the distinctively sensual element.\n\nEven a very simple demonstration of affection can have a broad variety of emotional reactions, from embarrassment to disgust to pleasure and annoyance. It also has a different physical effect on the giver and the receiver.\n\nMore specifically, the word has been restricted to emotional states, the object of which is a living thing such as a human or animal. Affection is compared with passion, from the Greek \"pathos\". As such it appears in the writings of French philosopher René Descartes, Dutch philosopher Baruch Spinoza, and most of the writings of early British ethicists. However, on various grounds (e.g., that it does not involve anxiety or excitement and that it is comparatively inert and compatible with the entire absence of the sensuous element), it is generally and usefully distinguished from passion. In this narrower sense, the word has played a great part in ethical systems, which have spoken of the social or parental \"affections\" as in some sense a part of moral obligations. For a consideration of these and similar problems, which depend ultimately on the degree in which the affections are regarded as voluntary.\n\nAffection can be communicated by looks, words, gestures, or touches. Affectionate behavior may have evolved from parental nurturing behavior due to its associations with hormonal rewards. Such affection has been shown to influence brain development in infants. \nExpressions of affection can be unwelcome if they pose implied threats to one's well being. If welcomed, affectionate behavior may be associated with various health benefits. It has been proposed that positive sentiments increase the propensity of people to interact and that familiarity gained through affection increases positive sentiments among them.\n\nAffection exchange is seen as an adaptive human behavior that contributes to greater physical and mental well-being. The expression of affection mediates emotional, physical, and relational benefits for the individual and significant counterparts. The communication of positive feelings towards others has shown health benefits that include; lower stress hormones, lower cholesterol, lower blood pressure and stronger immune system. Affection Expression Benefits are internally noticed when the emotion is expressed and not merely felt, if affection is not reciprocated through the receiver, effects of the affection are still felt through the giver. \n\nAffectionate behavior is often regarded as the result of parental nurturing behavior due to its associations with hormonal rewards. Positive and negative parental behaviors can be linked to later life health problems. Abuse is a common attribute to poor health in later life, as the lack of affection leads to naturally poorer well-being and mental health. A 2013 study, UCLA affection showed the effects of early child abuse and the outcome between lack of affection and the strong biological link for how these negative early-life experiences affect physical health. \n"}
{"id": "52777355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52777355", "title": "Alder Biopharmaceuticals", "text": "Alder Biopharmaceuticals\n\nAlder Biopharmaceuticals is a pharmaceutical development company based in Bothell, Washington. Alder specializes in therapeutic monoclonal antibodies. Alder went public in May 2014. In early 2018, the company made a public stock offering, aiming to raise .\n"}
{"id": "43270116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43270116", "title": "Alfred Montmarquette", "text": "Alfred Montmarquette\n\nAlfred Montmarquette (6 April 1871 - 24 May 1944) was a Canadian folksong composer and accordionist.\n\nMontmarquette was born in New York on 6 April 1871, and taught himself the accordion from the age of twelve, and had mastered it while still an adolescent. Unable to earn a living as a professional musician, he worked as a mason. He moved to Montreal in the 1920s, and was over fifty years old when Conrad Gauthier's \"Veillées du bon vieux temps\" made him well known.\n\nBetween 1928 and 1932, he recorded more than 110 pieces for Starr Records, and also recorded with Ovila Légaré, Eugène Daigneault and Mary Bolduc.\n\nHe died in an insane asylum in Montréal on 24 May 1944.\n\n\nDiscography\n"}
{"id": "42655135", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42655135", "title": "Allied Quality Assurance Publications", "text": "Allied Quality Assurance Publications\n\nThe Allied Quality Assurance Publications (AQAP) are standards for quality assurance systems that have been developed by NATO \n\nThe aim of the AQAP agreement is to define standards for Quality Assurance of defence products. These standards are an integral part of contracts awarded in the military field involving NATO member countries. AQAP documents are therefore important to contractors and companies wanting to bid for such contracts.\n\nThe AQAP system is described in STANAG 4107 issued by the NATO Standardization Agency. There are currently two main types of AQAP documents; Contractual Type which are written as a Technical Specification intended for contractual use; and Guidance Type which provide general guidance.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2536810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2536810", "title": "Bhavabhuti", "text": "Bhavabhuti\n\nBhavabhuti was an 8th-century scholar of India noted for his plays and poetry, written in Sanskrit. His plays are considered equivalent to the works of Kalidasa. Bhavbhuti was born in Padmapura, Vidarbha, in Gondia district, on Maharashtra and Madhya Pradesh border. \nHis real name was \"Srikantha Nilakantha\", and he was the son of Nilakantha and Jatukarni. He received his education at 'Padmapawaya', a place some 42 km South-West of Gwalior.\nParamhans Dnyananidhi is known to be his guru. He composed his historical plays at 'Kalpi', a place on banks of river Yamuna.\n\nHe is believed to have been the court poet of king Yashovarman of Kannauj. Kalhana, the 12th-century historian, places him in the entourage of the king, who was defeated by Lalitaditya Muktapida, king of Kashmir, in 736 AD.He also wrote Abhinav shakuntalam and displayed in court of King Bhoja of Ujjain but this was without any poetic editing, King Bhoja liked that but people didn't like it much compared to kalidasa's Abhigyan shakuntalam. so Bhavbhuti became very sad and burn whole Abhinav shakuntalam then he prayed and questioned to Devi\nSaraswati so she answered that\nIn your play emotions were missing & you did unnecessary comparison of your creation with Kalidasa's creation. After these valuable inputs \nhe became confident and applied\nash of burnt Abhinav Shakuntalam to his body so he became famous by name Bhavbhuti where Bhav means ash & bhuti means body\nand wrote other plays and became\nfamous like Kalidasa. Excerpt from speech of Pandurang Shastri Athavale written here by Dev Darshan Parikh\n\nThe play is set in the city of Padmavati. The king desires that his minister's daughter Malati marry a youth called Nandana. Malati is in love with Madhava ever since she saw him and drew his portrait. Madhava reciprocates, and draws a portrait of her in turn. Malati suspects her father's motives in falling in with the King's plans for her. A side plot involves the lovers' friends Makaranda and Madayantika. The latter is attacked by a tiger, and Makaranda rescues her, getting wounded in the process. After numerous travails, all ends well, with the two couples uniting. According to the renowned Sanskritist Daniel H.H. Ingalls, the Malatimadhava is a work that combines love and horror with a felicity never again equaled in Sanskrit literature.\n\nAccording to Dasharatha Sharma, the dramatists Kalidasa and Bhavabhuti utilized the \"Arthashastra\" of Kautilya while composing their famous works. Kalidasa is indebted to Kautilya's \"Arthashastra\" for material in the \"Raghuvamsa\". Similarly, Bhavabhuti utilizes words and ideas from the \"Arthashastra\" in the \"Malatimadhava\" and the \"Mahaviracharita\". There is indeed a striking resemblance between the methods advocated by \"Ravana's\" minister, \"Malayavana\" and the policies suggested by Kautilya in the \"Arthashastra\".\n\nLate Laxmanrao Mankar Guruji named his education society as \"Bhavbhuti Education Society\" in 1950.\nYashodabai Rahile founded \"Bhavbhuti Mandal\" (community) in 1996. O.C. Patel published a book \"Bhavbhuti ab geeton mein\" (Bhavbhuti, now in his songs), he also has published some audio CDs and cassettes to keep the legend's memories alive. State's local TV channel, Sayhyadri and E TV Marathi telecasts some documentaries on the life of this great poet. People and some non profit groups have erected a few statues in the region where the poet belongs to.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12924448", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12924448", "title": "Biosimilar", "text": "Biosimilar\n\nA biosimilar (also known as follow-on biologic or subsequent entry biologic) is a biologic medical product that is almost an identical copy of an original product that is manufactured by a different company. Biosimilars are officially approved versions of original \"innovator\" products and can be manufactured when the original product's patent expires. Reference to the innovator product is an integral component of the approval.\n\nUnlike with generic drugs of the more common small-molecule type, biologics generally exhibit high molecular complexity and may be quite sensitive to changes in manufacturing processes. Despite that heterogeneity, all biopharmaceuticals, including biosimilars, must maintain consistent quality and clinical performance throughout their lifecycle. Follow-on manufacturers do not have access to the originator's molecular clone and original cell bank, to the exact fermentation and purification process, or to the active drug substance, but they have access to the commercialized innovator product. Overall, it is harder to ascertain fungibility between generics and innovators among biologics than it is among totally synthesized and semisynthesized drugs. That is why the name \"biosimilar\" was coined to differentiate them from small-molecule generics. A simple analogy, often used to explain the difference, is to compare wine with soda pop. It is harder to say objectively that two bottles of wine from two wineries are \"sufficiently interchangeable,\" because of differences in yeast strain, weather, and year of grape harvest, than it is to say that two bottles of soda pop of the same flavor coming from two bottling plants are \"sufficiently interchangeable\" because they contain the same flavoring powder.\n\nDrug-related authorities such as the EU's European Medicines Agency (EMA), the US's Food and Drug Administration (FDA), and the Health Products and Food Branch of Health Canada hold their own guidance on requirements for demonstration of the similar nature of two biological products in terms of safety and efficacy. According to them, analytical studies demonstrate that the biological product is highly similar to the reference product, despite minor differences in clinically inactive components, animal studies (including the assessment of toxicity), and a clinical study or studies (including the assessment of immunogenicity and pharmacokinetics or pharmacodynamics). They are sufficient to demonstrate safety, purity, and potency in one or more appropriate conditions of use for which the reference product is licensed and is intended to be used and for which licensure is sought for the biological product.\n\nIn case of a monoclonal antibody-containing medicinal product, such as Remsima, extensive physicochemical and biological characterization for it and its reference product Remicade was conducted to demonstrate their highly-similar properties. Therefore, EMA has granted a marketing authorisation for only a few biosimilars since 2006, including a monoclonal antibody, that was recently approved. Meanwhile, on March 6, 2015, the FDA approved the United States's first biosimilar product, the biosimilar of filgrastim called filgrastim-sndz (trade name Zarxio) by Sandoz.\n\nThe European regulatory authorities led with a specially adapted approval procedure to authorize subsequent versions of previously approved biologics, termed \"similar biological medicinal products\", or biosimilars. This procedure is based on a thorough demonstration of \"comparability\" of the \"similar\" product to an existing approved product. In the United States, the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) held that new legislation was required to enable them to approve biosimilars to those biologics originally approved through the PHS Act pathway. Additional Congressional hearings have been held. On March 17, 2009, the Pathway for Biosimilars Act was introduced in the House. See the Library of Congress website and search H.R. 1548 in 111th Congress Session. Since 2004 the FDA has held a series of public meetings on biosimilars.\n\nThe FDA gained the authority to approve biosimilars (including interchangeables that are substitutable with their reference product) as part of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act signed by President Obama on March 23, 2010.\n\nThe FDA has previously approved biologic products using comparability, for example, Omnitrope in May 2006, but this like Enoxaparin was also to a reference product, Genotropin, originally approved as a biologic drug under the FD&C Act.\n\nOn March 6, 2015, Zarxio obtained the first approval of FDA. Sandoz’s Zarxio is biosimilar to Amgen’s Neupogen (filgrastim), which was originally licensed in 1991. This is the first product to be passed under the Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCI Act), which was passed as part of the Affordable Healthcare Act. But Zarxio was approved as a biosimilar, not as an interchangeable product, the FDA notes. And under the BPCI Act, only a biologic that has been approved as an “interchangeable” may be substituted for the reference product without the intervention of the health care provider who prescribed the reference product. The FDA said its approval of Zarxio is based on review of evidence that included structural and functional characterization, animal study data, human pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamics data, clinical immunogenicity data and other clinical safety and effectiveness data that demonstrates Zarxio is biosimilar to Neupogen.\n\nCloning of human genetic material and development of in vitro biological production systems has allowed the production of virtually any recombinant DNA based biological substance for eventual development of a drug. Monoclonal antibody technology combined with recombinant DNA technology has paved the way for tailor-made and targeted medicines. Gene- and cell-based therapies are emerging as new approaches.\n\nRecombinant therapeutic proteins are of a complex nature (composed of a long chain of amino acids, modified amino acids, derivatized by sugar moieties, folded by complex mechanisms). These proteins are made in living cells (bacteria, yeast, animal or human cell lines). The ultimate characteristics of a drug containing a recombinant therapeutic protein are to a large part determined by the process through which they are produced: choice of the cell type, development of the genetically modified cell for production, production process, purification process, formulation of the therapeutic protein into a drug.\n\nAfter the expiry of the patent of approved recombinant drugs (e.g., insulin, human growth hormone, interferons, erythropoietin, monoclonal antibodies and more) any other biotech company can develop and market these biologics (thus called biosimilars).\nEvery biological (or biopharmaceutical products) displays a certain degree of variability, even between different batches of the same product, which is due to the inherent variability of the biological expression system and the manufacturing process. Any kind of reference product has undergone numerous changes in its manufacturing processes, and such changes in the manufacturing process (ranging from a change in the supplier of cell culture media to new purification methods or new manufacturing sites) was substantiated with appropriate data and was approved by the EMA. In contrast, it is mandatory for biosimilars to take a both non-clinical and clinical test that the most sensitive clinical models are asked to show to enable detection of differences between the two products in terms of human pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD), efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity.\n\nThe current concept of development of biosimilar mAbs follows the principle that an extensive state of the art physicochemical, analytical and functional comparison of the molecules is complemented by comparative non-clinical and clinical data that establish equivalent efficacy and safety in a clinical \"model\" indication that is most sensitive to detect any minor differences (if these exist) between biosimilar and its reference mAb also at the clinical level.\n\nThe European Medicines Agency (EMA) has recognized this fact, which has resulted in the establishment of the term \"biosimilar\" in recognition that, whilst biosimilar products are similar to the original product, they are not exactly the same.\nEvery biological displays a certain degree of variability. However, provided that structure and function(s), pharmacokinetic profiles and pharmacodynamic effect(s) and/or efficacy can be shown to be comparable for the biosimilar and the reference product, those adverse drug reactions which are related to exaggerated pharmacological effects can also be expected at similar frequencies.\n\nOriginally the complexity of biological molecules led to requests for substantial efficacy and safety data for a biosimilar approval. This has been progressively replaced with a greater dependence on assays, from quality through to clinical, that show assay sensitivity sufficient to detect any significant difference in dose. However, the safe application of biologics depends on an informed and appropriate use by healthcare professionals and patients. Introduction of biosimilars also requires a specifically designed pharmacovigilance plan. It is difficult and costly to recreate biologics because the complex proteins are derived from living organisms that are genetically modified. In contrast, small molecule drugs made up of a chemically based compound can be easily replicated and are considerably less expensive to reproduce. In order to be released to the public, biosimilars must be shown to be as close to identical to the parent innovator biologic product based on data compiled through clinical, animal, analytical studies and conformational status.\n\nGenerally, once a drug is released in the market by FDA, it has to be re-evaluated for its safety and efficacy once every six months for the first and second years. Afterward, re-evaluations are conducted yearly, and the result of the assessment should be reported to authorities such as FDA. Biosimilars are required to undergo pharmacovigilance (PVG) regulations as its reference product. Thus biosimilars approved by EMEA (European Medicines Agency) are required to submit a risk management plan (RMP) along with the marketing application and have to provide regular safety update reports after the product is in the market. The RMP includes the safety profile of the drug and proposes the prospective pharmacovigilance studies.\n\nSeveral PK studies, such as studies conducted by Committee for Medicinal Products for Human Use (CHMP), have been conducted under various ranges of conditions; Antibodies from an originator’s product versus antibodies from an biosimilar; combination therapy and monotherapy; various diseases, etc. on the purpose to verify comparability in pharmacokinetics of the biosimilar with the reference medicinal product in a sufficiently sensitive and homogeneous population. Importantly, provided that structure and function(s), pharmacokinetic profiles and pharmacodynamic effect(s) and/or efficacy can be shown to be comparable for the biosimilar and the reference product, those adverse drug reactions which are related to exaggerated pharmacological effects can also be expected at similar frequencies.\n\nIt has approved (in Jan 2016) Benepali a biosimilar to Enbrel (etanercept).\n\nThe Biologics Price Competition and Innovation Act of 2009 (BPCI Act) was originally sponsored and introduced on June 26, 2007, by Senator Edward Kennedy (D-MA). It was formally passed under the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPAC Act), signed into law by President Barack Obama on March 23, 2010. The BPCI Act was an amendment to the Public Health Service Act (PHS Act) to create an abbreviated approval pathway for biological products that are demonstrated to be highly similar (biosimilar) to a Food and Drug Administration (FDA) approved biological product. The BPCI Act is similar, conceptually, to the Drug Price Competition and Patent Term Restoration Act of 1984 (also referred to as the \"Hatch-Waxman Act\") which created biological drug approval through the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act (FFD&C Act). The BPCI Act aligns with the FDA's longstanding policy of permitting appropriate reliance on what is already known about a drug, thereby saving time and resources and avoiding unnecessary duplication of human or animal testing. The FDA has released a total of four draft guidelines related to biosimilar or follow-on biologics development. Upon the release of the first three guidance documents the FDA held a public hearing on May 11, 2012.\n\nData exclusivity is an important piece of the amendment in the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act for biosimilars. It is the period of time between FDA approval and an abbreviated filing for a biosimilar on the original producer's data. Data exclusivity is designed to preserve innovation and recognize the long, costly, and risky process involved while the innovator waits to gain FDA approval. The time allowed for data exclusivity is critical for the future of biologics. A number of provisions for data exclusivity in recent legislative proposals ranged up to 14 years, however, the passing of the PPAC Act guarantees a 12-year time period from the time of FDA approval. This is supposed to compensate for perceived shortcomings in patent protection for biologics. Data exclusivity extends from the date of product approval, and this protection period runs concurrently with any remaining patent term protection for the biologic. That is to say, data exclusivity provides additional protection to the innovator when the remaining patent length is shorter than the data exclusivity period at the time of approval (which can occur due to lengthy pre-clinical and clinical research required to obtain FDA approval), or to the extent that the patent term is circumvented by a biosimilar prior to its expiry.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) and the FDA have been working for years on the nonproprietary naming of biosimilars. In August 2015, the FDA published a draft guideline on the topic. In brief, the guideline calls for the assignment of a four character alphabetic suffix to the nonproprietary name of the original product to distinguish between innovator drugs and their biosimilars. The WHO INN system calls this suffix a biologic modifier.\n\nThe legal requirements of approval pathways, together with the costly manufacturing processes, escalates the developing costs for biosimilars that could be between $75–$250 million per molecule. This market entry barrier affects not only the companies willing to produce them but could also delay availability of inexpensive alternatives for public healthcare institutions that subsidize treatment for their patients. Even though the biosimilars market is rising, the price drop for biological drugs at risk of patent expiration will not be as great as for other generic drugs; in fact it has been estimated that the price for biosimilar products will be 65%-85% of their originators. Biosimilars are drawing market's attention since there is an upcoming patent cliff, which will put nearly 36% of the $140 billion market for biologic drugs at risk (as of 2011), this considering only the top 10 selling products.\n\nThe global biosimilars market was $1.3 billion in 2013 and is expected to reach $35 billion by 2020 driven by the patent expiration of additional ten blockbuster biologic drugs.\n\n"}
{"id": "53936355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53936355", "title": "British Society for Developmental Biology", "text": "British Society for Developmental Biology\n\nThe British Society for Developmental Biology (BSDB) is a scientific society promoting developmental biology. It is open to anyone with an interest in the subject.\n\nThe British Society for Developmental Biology was founded in 1948 as the London Embryologists’\nClub. In 1964 it was expanded from a club into a scientific society named the Society for Developmental Biology. However in 1964 the Society for the Study of Growth and Development in the United States had also voted to change to the same name, and in 1966 took over sponsorship of the journal Developmental Biology. In 1969 the smaller British society changed to its current name.\n\nThe society administers four annual awards and a studentship. The Waddington Medal, dating from 1998, is awarded tor \"an outstanding individual who has made major contributions to any aspect of Developmental Biology in the UK\".\n\nIn 2016 the society added the Cheryll Tickle Medal to be awarded to a mid-career female scientist. It is named for the embryologist Cheryll Tickle, the first winner of the Waddington Medal. \n\nThe society also has awards for early career scientists. The Beddington Medal is awarded for the \"best PhD thesis in developmental biology\", the Dennis Summerhill Lecture Award for a junior researcher, and summer studentships for undergraduate studentships.\n\n"}
{"id": "1331958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1331958", "title": "Brooke Hart", "text": "Brooke Hart\n\nBrooke Hart (June 11, 1911 – November 9, 1933) was the eldest son of Alexander Hart, the owner of Leopold Hart and Son Department Store at the southeast corner of Market and Santa Clara Street in downtown San Jose, California. His kidnapping and murder were reported throughout the United States. The subsequent lynching of his alleged murderers, Thomas Harold Thurmond and John M. Holmes, sparked widespread political debate and public horror.\n\nThe lynchings were carried out by a mob of San Jose citizens in St. James Park across from the Santa Clara County Jail, and were broadcast as a 'live' event by a Los Angeles radio station. The killings of the suspects were tacitly endorsed by the governor of California. Scores of reporters, photographers, and newsreel camera operators, along with an estimated 3,000 to 10,000 men, women, and children, were witness to it. When newspapers published photos, identifiable faces were deliberately smudged so that they remained anonymous; the following Monday, local newspapers published 1.2 million copies, twice the normal daily production.\n\nThis incident is sometimes referred to as \"the last lynching in California\", though the last California lynching is said to have occurred on January 6, 1947, in Callahan, but the name of the victim has never been released and the event cannot be confirmed in any printed news publications.\n\nIn 1933 Brooke Hart was 22 years old, and the heir to one of San Jose's best-known businesses. His grandfather, Leopold Hart, was an Alsatian immigrant who bought an mercantile shop known as the Cash Corner store in San Jose in 1866. After Leopold's son, Alex J. Hart Sr. (known as A.J.) took over the business, it expanded to the landmark status it held in San Jose for four decades - becoming as much a part of the fabric of the city as Macy's was in New York or Neiman Marcus was in Dallas.\n\nThe Hart store was famous for its attentive customer service, and benefited from the deep loyalty of customers and employees alike. When the country found itself in the grip of The Great Depression, Hart's held onto its central place in the lives of San Jose's citizens, and continued to buy advertising in local publications.\n\nThe family was one of the city's most prominent, and their influence was the source of many colorful stories: one such tale recounts that the artist who repainted the ceiling of St. Joseph Cathedral in the 1920s modeled the cherubs in his work on the Hart family's children.\n\nBrooke Hart had worked in his family's department store during much of his youth and was well-known and liked by the local community. After he graduated from Santa Clara University, his father, A.J., made him a junior vice president in the store and began grooming him to take over when A.J. retired.\n\nJust before 6:00 p.m. on Thursday, November 9, 1933, Brooke Hart retrieved his 1933 Studebaker President roadster, a graduation present from his parents, from a downtown San Jose parking lot behind the family store. He had agreed to chauffeur his father, A.J., who did not drive, to a meeting of the Chamber of Commerce at the San Jose Country Club.\n\nWhen Brooke did not turn up to collect his father, A.J. became concerned. Hours passed and still there was no sign of Brooke. The family anxiety grew; the eldest Hart child was responsible and punctual. This disappearance was entirely out of character.\n\nAt 9:30 that night, Aleese Hart, the older of Hart's two younger sisters, answered the telephone at the family home and was informed by a \"soft-spoken man\" that Hart had been kidnapped and that instructions for his return would be provided later. At 10:30, what sounded like the same man called and informed the other sister, Miriam, that her brother would be returned upon payment of . Delivery instructions would be provided the next day.\n\nThe San Jose Police, the Santa Clara County Sheriffs office, and the U.S. Division of Investigation (the forerunner of the FBI) were quickly brought into the case. The phone calls were traced to locations in San Francisco. Hart's wallet had already been discovered in San Francisco on the guard rail of a tanker which had been refueling the Matson Lines passenger liner SS \"Lurline\", and it was assumed the wallet had been tossed from a porthole on the liner. \"Lurline\" was stopped and searched in Los Angeles upon arrival on November 11, but nothing was found. Police then advanced an alternative theory: since Pier 32, from which \"Lurline\" had departed, was close to the sewer outfall, the heavily laden tanker may have dipped below the surface and picked up the wallet from where it had been discharged from the sewer, lifting it from the bay once a sufficient amount of fuel had been offloaded. One of the passengers detained during the three-hour search was Babe Ruth, traveling to Los Angeles to watch a football game between Southern California and Stanford.\n\nA \"compromise ransom\" telegram from Sacramento arrived on November 12, suggesting that would be sufficient. However, the family was not contacted again until Monday, November 13, when a letter, postmarked in Sacramento, arrived in the mail at the family department store. It instructed Hart's father, A.J. Hart, to have a radio installed in the Studebaker (which already had a radio), because the ransom instructions would be broadcast over NBC radio station KPO. The kidnapper also instructed A.J. Hart to be ready to drive the Studebaker to deliver the ransom, but A.J. Hart had never learned to drive.\n\nOn Tuesday, a second ransom note arrived, this time postmarked in San Francisco. It instructed A.J. Hart to place the ransom in a black satchel and drive to Los Angeles. That night, Hart took a call from a man claiming to be his son's kidnapper who instructed him to take the night train to Los Angeles. The authorities staked out the train station and mistakenly arrested a bank teller out for an evening stroll. The next day, a sign was placed in a window of the Hart store stating that A.J. Hart did not drive. A call was received that night again demanding that Hart drive to deliver the ransom. Hart demanded proof that his son was with the caller. The caller stated that Brooke Hart was being held at a safe location. Because a phone tap had been placed on the Hart telephone, the call was traced to a garage in downtown San Jose, but the caller was gone by the time the authorities arrived.\n\nAnother ransom demand arrived the following day, again ordering A.J. Hart to drive with the ransom. That night, another call was received and the demand that Hart drive was repeated. The sheriff arrested Thomas Harold Thurmond near a pay phone in a parking garage from the San Jose Police station at about 8 p.m. At 3:00 a.m., Thurmond, after hours of questioning, signed a confession in which he claimed to have bound Brooke Hart's hands with wire and tossed him off the San Mateo Bridge into San Francisco Bay sometime between 7:00 and 7:30 on the night of the kidnapping. And he identified an accomplice: John Holmes, a recently unemployed salesman who was separated from his wife and two children. Holmes was arrested in his SRO room at the California Hotel near the San Jose Police station at 3:30 a.m. According to Thurmond's confession, Holmes approached him with the scheme six weeks prior, after he had separated from his family.\n\nAt 1 p.m. on November 17, Holmes signed a confession admitting that he and Thurmond kidnapped Hart and threw him into San Francisco Bay. Later, the Santa Clara County District Attorney advised the press that, unless corroborated by independent evidence of the crime, confessions by Thurmond and Holmes in which each blamed the other for the crime were not admissible in a court of law.\n\nAccording to the men's confessions, when Hart stopped his car near the exit of the parking lot, Thurmond slipped into the passenger seat and, holding a gun on him, forced Hart to drive to what is now Milpitas, about seven miles north of San Jose. There they abandoned the Studebaker for another waiting car, which had been driven to the rendezvous point by Holmes, and the group of three drove to the San Mateo Bridge.\n\nOn the bridge, the men ordered Hart out of the car, and one of the kidnappers struck him twice on the head from behind with a concrete block until he was unconscious. They then bound his arms with baling wire before dumping him into San Francisco Bay. The tide was out and there were only a few feet of water at the base of the bridge; the kidnappers then shot Hart, killing him. A few hours later, they placed the first telephone call to the Hart family demanding $40,000 for Hart's return.\n\nLocal newspapers reported that Holmes and Thurmond had met with psychiatrists and would attempt to plead not guilty by reason of insanity. Thurmond claimed he had been \"crazy\" for more than a year, since his sweetheart married another man, and Holmes planned to repudiate his confession, which his attorney claimed had been \"forced from him by third-degree methods,\" including threats to \"turn him over to the mob for lynching if he did not confess.\" Upon learning of rumors of a possible insanity plea on the part of Thurmond, law enforcement authorities directed two psychiatrists from Agnews State Mental Hospital in Santa Clara, California to examine the two men to preclude such a defense. Following cursory examinations in their cells at the Santa Clara County jail in San Jose, with a mob outside in the jail courtyard, both men were declared sane.\n\nPolice officers from Santa Clara, San Mateo, and Alameda Counties began searching the bay around the bridge, hoping to find Hart's body. Trace evidence, including stains on the bridge, \"blonde hair on a brick\" and other markings convinced authorities the confessors had truthfully described the sequence of events, including dumping Hart.\n\nThe first physical clues were unearthed on November 18. Two bricks and apparent bloodstains were found at the San Mateo Bridge. The pillowcase used to mask Hart during the car ride to the bridge was discovered, along with Hart's hat, by November 20. The discovery of the hat ended the last hope of the family that Hart would be found alive. A hook-studded apparatus was used to drag the bay, with no success. A weighted dummy was planned to be dropped from the bridge on November 21 in an attempt to see where it would float. Workers constructing a pier of the Bay Bridge reported seeing a body floating in the water during the night of November 22, prompting a search by Oakland and San Francisco police boats, including the shores of nearby Goat Island. Alex Hart announced a reward on November 24, hoping to \"enlist the aid of the public in the search.\" By that time, the search for the body involved a blimp from Sunnyvale, police boats from Oakland and San Francisco, United States Marines and a hydraulic pump to dredge the mud from underneath the San Mateo Bridge.\n\nThe official search for Hart's body ended on November 25. The next day, two duck hunters from Redwood City discovered a badly decayed and crab-eaten body approximately south of the bridge. Hart's body was identified by the coroner and Hart's friends and employees later that day, with several personal effects with the body matched to Hart's known possessions.\n\nBecause of lynch threats, Santa Clara County Sheriff Emig moved Thurmond and Holmes to the Potrero Hill police station in San Francisco for safekeeping soon after their arrest. A San Jose newspaper ran a front-page editorial branding Holmes and Thurmond \"human devils\" and called for \"mob violence.\" Upon their return to the San Francisco jail from questioning, cries of \"lynch them\" were heard from the crowd surrounding that jail. On November 21, Holmes and Thurmond remained in the jail, and fear of vigilantism led authorities to announce they would be held \"indefinitely.\" Reportedly, \"20 influential friends of the socially prominent Hart family\" had formed a committee to \"insist on immediate and drastic punishment for the prisoners.\" Prosecutors declined to seek grand jury hearings in the fear that an indictment would incite vigilantes. Despite these fears, the pair were indicted on charges of extortion, using the mails for extortion, and conspiracy, and were returned to the San Jose jail the night of November 22. On November 23, California Governor James Rolph announced to shocked reporters that he would refuse to dispatch the National Guard to protect Thurmond and Holmes.\nUpon payment of $10,000 cash—an astonishing sum in 1933—by the father of Jack Holmes, San Francisco attorney Vincent Hallinan agreed to represent his son. Thurmond was defended by J. Oscar Goldstein of Chico. With a volatile mob increasing day and night outside the jail on Saturday, November 24, Hallinan called Rolph and asked that he call out the National Guard should an effort be made to lynch his client. Rolph retorted that he would \"pardon the lynchers\".\n\nAuthorities \"expected trouble if and when the missing body was found.\" After the discovery of Hart's body on Sunday, November 26, word went out immediately throughout northern California. All day Sunday and into the evening, radio stations issued inflammatory announcements that a lynching would occur that night in St. James Park in San Jose. By 9:00 p.m., a mob estimated by the press to range anywhere from 5,000 to 15,000 men, women, and children were jammed into the park, with an estimated 3,000 vehicles left on streets nearby. Governor James Rolph was in regular telephonic communication with Raymond Cato, whom he had appointed to head the California Highway Patrol. Cato was ensconced in the home of a Rolph political ally and neighbor in the mountains west of San Jose with an open phone line to the jail. Although the crowd was characterized as \"good natured\" earlier in the day, periodically there was an ominous chanting of \"Eleven o'clock!\".\n\nAt approximately 9:00 p.m., Rolph canceled a planned trip to the Western Governors' Conference in Boise, Idaho, to prevent his chief political rival, Lieutenant Governor Frank Merriam, from calling out the National Guard to stop the lynchings. Sheriff William Emig contacted Rolph at 10:30 p.m., asking that the National Guard be deployed to protect the prisoners. Rolph refused. The assault on the jail commenced at approximately 11 p.m.\n\nBy midnight, thousands had gathered outside the jail; the sheriff's deputies fired tear gas into the crowd in an attempt to disperse them. However, the crowd became angrier and larger. The nearby construction site at the post office (intended to replace the previous post office, which is now the San Jose Museum of Art) was raided for materials to make a battering ram. Emig ordered his officers to abandon the bottom two floors of the jail, where Thurmond and Holmes were being held. It was later noted that both cells had been occupied by other notorious murderers: Thurmond's cell on the third floor by David Lamson, and Holmes's cell on the second floor by Douglas Templeton. The mob, by this time estimated at 6,000–10,000 (other reports say 3,000–5,000), stormed the jail, took Holmes and Thurmond across the street to St. James Park, and hanged them. Some women in the mob were alleged to have encouraged the violence, seemingly forgetting their prior advice to let the law \"take its course\". Child movie star Jackie Coogan, a friend of Brooke Hart from Santa Clara University, was reported to be one of the mob that prepared and held the rope for lynching.\n\nThurmond was buried in an unmarked plot in Oak Hill Memorial Park on November 29, the same cemetery where Brooke Hart had been buried on November 27. Holmes was cremated at Oak Hill on November 29.\n\nAccording to the \"San Francisco Chronicle\", on December 2, after a special meeting of the city council heard testimony in support of leaving the tree as a monument and warning to evildoers, the council approved the cutting down of the cork elm by city workers. Police were required to keep off a crowd of souvenir hunters seeking a twig or branch of the infamous \"gallows tree\", the bark and lower branches having been hacked and stripped for mementos.\n\nThe lynching was unique in American political and criminal justice history because it marked the first time that a lynching was a media event. It was also unique because of the political involvement of a state governor and the eagerness by civic and business leaders and law enforcement to allow the lynching of two men who had not been indicted, arraigned, tried, or sentenced for the crime in a court of law. Many modern historians conclude that the two men were indeed guilty.\n\nRoyce Brier, a staff writer for the \"Chronicle\", would later go on to win the 1934 Pulitzer Prize for Reporting for his account of the lynching. According to the prize citation, Brier worked for 16 hours along with several assistants mingling with the lynch mob and telephoning running updates from a garage across the street from the jail before composing the story in three hours starting at 12:30 a.m. on the morning of November 27.\n\nGovernor Rolph praised the action, stating that California had sent a message to future kidnappers, and promised to pardon anyone involved in the lynching. However, Rolph died on June 2, 1934, before any charges had been filed in the case.\n\nAlameda County District Attorney Earl Warren was the strongest supporter of prosecution for the lynching. Santa Clara County Assistant District Attorney Herbert Bridges was quoted as saying he was \"not sorry [the lynching] happened in San Jose.\" Santa Clara County District Attorney Fred Thomas doubted anyone could be found to bear witness against the leaders of the lynching, characterizing the stories being told by local youths as \"boastful\" but uncorroborated. The American Civil Liberties Union stated they had found eyewitnesses ready to identify members of the lynch mob by December 1933, but San Jose citizens were outspoken in their opposition to \"outsider\" interference. Eventually seven people were arrested for the lynchings, but none were convicted. California did not specifically define lynching as a crime, although crimes committed during the lynching such as rioting, assault, and murder could potentially be prosecuted.\n\nOne young man was charged for participating in the lynching after he publicly claimed credit for leading the mob, but the charges were dropped. The Santa Clara County Grand Jury met the following year, but despite literally thousands of witnesses, scores of reporters, and hundreds of photographs, the grand jury found that no witnesses could identify anyone from the lynching, so no charges were filed.\n\nIn the aftermath of the lynching, Governor Rolph was publicly condemned for advocating \"lynch law\" by former President Herbert Hoover, then at Stanford University in Palo Alto, California. Rolph replied, \"If troops had been called out, hundreds of innocent citizens might have been mowed down.\" Rolph accused Hoover of calling out the U.S. Army against the veterans of World War I \"Bonus Marchers\" in Washington, D.C. in 1932. The exchange continued. President Roosevelt also condemned the lynching.\n\nHolmes's parents sued Governor Rolph for his role in the lynching of their son, along with radio station KQW and several other persons, but the suit was dropped when the governor died of a heart attack in 1934. Holmes's widow sued Sheriff Emig and several deputies, citing their carelessness and negligence in failing to protect him. Thurmond's family took no action on his behalf and reportedly never again spoke about the matter amongst themselves.\n\nHart had three sisters, Jeanette, Miriam, and Aleese, and a brother, Alexander Joseph Jr.\n\nIn 1983, Harry Farrell, a columnist for the \"San Jose Mercury News\", wrote about the lynching in a two-part series. After he retired, he followed up with a book on the same subject, \"Swift Justice\", published in 1992. \"Swift Justice\" was praised by Walter Cronkite and won a Edgar Award in 1993, beating out the expected winner, Ann Rule.\n\nJohn Murphy criticized Farrell's approach, noting that by accepting the confessions as the baseline truth and hewing to the \"conventional\" history that led to mob justice, Farrell had invented conversations and created motivations that were impossible to corroborate and glossed over inconsistencies. Murphy points out the later phone calls placed to make ransom demands came from payphones physically close together, culminating in the arrest of Thurmond at a payphone only from San Jose Police Headquarters. Murphy would go on to write a book, \"Jury Rigging in the Court of Public Opinion\" (published in 2007), and write and produce a movie, \"Valley of the Hearts Delight\" regarding the 1933 case.\n\nThe lynching inspired local punk band Executioner to write the song \"St. James Park\". The song was not released until 2011, when one of the founders of Executioner, Dave Burks, gathered available recordings from the band's active years of 1982–83.\n\nAt least four films have been made loosely based on this story:\n\nThe 1933 lynching also inspired two short stories from John Steinbeck:\n\nFormer San Jose mayor Tom McEnery wrote a play based on Farrell's 1992 book. The play, produced in early 2016 by the San Jose-based Tabard Theatre Company, shares the book's name, \"Swift Justice\". A review criticized the \"weak script\" and said it had \"[too many] shallowly developed scenes.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "298712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=298712", "title": "Cerro Maravilla murders", "text": "Cerro Maravilla murders\n\nThe Cerro Maravilla murders, also known as the Cerro Maravilla massacre, occurred on July 25, 1978, at Cerro Maravilla, a mountain in Puerto Rico, wherein two young Puerto Rican pro-independence activists were murdered in a Puerto Rico Police ambush. The event sparked a series of political controversies where, in the end, the police officers were found guilty of murder and several high-ranking local government officials were accused of planning and/or covering up the incident.\n\nOriginally declared a police intervention against terrorists, the local media quickly questioned the officers' testimonies as well as the only surviving witness for inconsistencies. Although reluctant, Carlos Romero Barceló (PNP), then Governor of Puerto Rico, ordered the local Justice Department to launch various investigations, and asked the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) and the US Justice Department to aid in the investigations, which concluded that there was no wrongdoing on the officers' part. However, after one of the local opposing political parties launched its own inquiries, new evidence and witness testimonies surfaced which uncovered gross negligence and murder on the officers' part, as well as the possibility of a local and federal cover-up. Trials were held and a total of 10 officers were convicted of various crimes.\n\nThe incident and subsequent events have become one of the most controversial events in Puerto Rico's political history, frequently called \"the worst political cover-up in the history of the island\". The event is often used by Puerto Rican independence activists as an example of political oppression against the independence movement. Joy James commented that \"the Cerro Maravilla massacre demonstrated the reason why colonialism was banned in the world.\"\n\nCarlos Enrique Soto Arriví was born on December 8, 1959, in San Juan. His parents were Pedro Juan Soto (one of the most admired Puerto Rican novelists in the 20th century) and Rosa Arriví. He had an older brother (Roberto Alfonso) and a younger brother (Juan Manuel).\n\nAs a student he enjoyed literature. He also wrote stories and went on to win second place in a competition held by the Puerto Rico Department of Education. When his parents went to Europe to finish their doctoral studies, he learned to speak French in a year. Upon returning from Europe, he enrolled at the Escuela Superior República de Colombia, a high school in Río Piedras, although in a lower grade, because the school officials did not want to credit his years of overseas study. Although Soto Arriví was interested in social issues from a very young age, his political activism started when he joined a pro-independence group in high school.\nArnaldo Darío Rosado Torres was born on November 23, 1953, in Old San Juan. His parents were Pablo Rosado and Juana Torres Aymat. Rosado finished his high school studies and went to work at a cracker factory. Dario Rosado was married to Angela Rivera, and had a son called Manuel Lenín Rosado Rivera.\n\nFrom a very young age, Rosado identified with the cause of Puerto Rico's independence. He joined the socialist league with which he participated in several activities. Rosado was an autodidact and an avid reader of various kinds of literature, especially those related to the political processes of Puerto Rico and Latin America. He also wrote poems, essays, and had several pen-pals throughout Latin America.\n\nOn the night of July 25, 1978, Carlos Soto Arriví and Arnaldo Darío Rosado, two independence activists of the Armed Revolutionary Movement (), along with undercover police officer Alejandro González Malavé posing as a fellow group member, took taxi driver Julio Ortiz Molina hostage and ordered him to drive them to Cerro Maravilla where several communication towers were located. Their original plan was to set fire and sabotage the towers to protest the imprisonment of Puerto Rican nationalists convicted of the 1950 assassination attempt on U.S. President Harry S. Truman and the 1954 shooting at the United States Capitol where five members of Congress were injured. State police officers were alerted of their plan prior to their arrival and the activists were ambushed and shot. The undercover agent received a minor bullet wound during the shooting, while the taxi driver was left relatively unharmed.\n\nThe morning after the shootings, the officers argued that they acted in self defense, stating that they ordered the activists to surrender, at which time the activists started shooting at them and they returned fire. Initially, the taxi driver said he was under the dashboard of his cab when the shooting started and could not see who shot first, although he contradicted his statement a few days later in an interview with the \"San Juan Star\", a local newspaper, stating that he ducked under the dashboard of the car after the three men (the two activists and the undercover agent) left the car, and that he saw \"10 heavily armed men\" approaching. When he emerged from the car, he saw the three men alive and two of them were being beaten by the armed men, who were later identified as policemen. Then-Governor of Puerto Rico Carlos Romero Barceló (PNP) praised the officers in a televised address by calling them “heroic”, stating that they acted in self-defense and stopped a terrorist attack.\n\nTwo days later, in a follow-up interview by WAPA-TV news reporter Enrique Cruz, the taxi driver stated that when the first shooting occurred, he heard one of his three passengers shout \"I'm an agent! Don't shoot me, I'm an agent!\" while the others called for help and shouted \"I give up! I give up!\". He saw \"10 heavily armed men\" approaching, later identified as police agents, when the three passengers exited the car, and the taxi driver was ordered at gunpoint to exit the vehicle. He was extracted by an agent, kicked, and taken away from the scene. While being escorted, he saw the two activists directly in front of his vehicle being beaten by the armed men.\n\nFacing public pressure due to the taxi driver's conflicting statements, Governor Romero Barceló ordered two separate investigations by the P.R. Justice Department in addition to the ongoing standard Police investigation, all of which concluded that the officers' actions were free of any wrongdoing, despite various inconsistencies in their stories. P.R. District Attorney Pedro Colton informed reporters on July 29, four days after the incident, that the P.R. Justice Department's investigation revealed \"no massacre, no beatings, and no aggressions, except for the shootings that occurred in Cerro Maravilla\". Opposing political parties, mainly the Popular Democratic Party (PPD), insisted that the investigations were just cover-ups and demanded that a special independent prosecutor be assigned to investigate. Two special investigations by the U.S. Justice Department's Civil Rights Division and by the U.S. Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) were performed on separate occasions between 1978 and 1980, which confirmed the conclusions of the P.R. Justice Department that the officers acted in self-defense.\n\nIn the November 1980 general elections, Governor Romero Barceló was re-elected by a margin of 3,503 votes (one of the closest in Puerto Rico history), though his party lost control of the state legislature to the main opposition party, the PPD. This loss was attributed by \"The New York Times\" to the surrounding controversy regarding the investigations at the time. Other news organizations, such as \"Time\", attributed the loss to Gov. Romero Barcelo's stance on the island's political status. The Legislature quickly started new inquiries and hearings into the Cerro Maravilla incident. The Senate, then presided by Miguel Hernández Agosto, spearheaded the investigations by naming former Assistant District Attorney Hector Rivera Cruz to investigate.\n\nThe second investigations performed between 1981 and 1984 by the legislature, the U.S. Justice Department, and the local press uncovered a plot to assassinate the activists and a possible, though not conclusive, conspiracy to cover-up these actions. During interviews of the Senate Investigations Committee in 1983, officer Miguel Cartagena Flores, a detective in the Intelligence Division of the Puerto Rico Police Department, testified: “When I arrived at the scene I saw 4 police officers aiming their guns at the two activists who were kneeling before them. I turned my eyes away and heard 5 gunshots.\" Cartagena, who was offered immunity for his testimony, added that several hours before the shooting, he and other officers were told by Col. Angel Perez Casillas, commander of the Intelligence Division, that “these terrorists should not come down (from the mountain) alive.” His testimony was corroborated by officer Carmelo Cruz who, although he did not witness the fatal shooting, confirmed many details provided by Cartagena when also granted immunity.\n\nOther inquiries obtained similar testimony from witnesses, including the taxi driver who now stated that the activists were “alive and disarmed” when the police removed him from the scene. The taxi driver stated that there was a short exchange of gunfire, and when he was removed to another place nearby he heard a second volley of gunfire, but was asked by the police and investigators of the PR Justice Department to forget about the second round of shots. The statement regarding two different volleys of shots was upheld by various people, including ex-officer Jesus Quiñones before a Federal grand jury (he quit the force shortly after the shootings), and three other civilian witnesses in a \"San Juan Star\" interview.\n\nSubsequently, the legislature and local press started questioning the actions of the Puerto Rico Police, the Puerto Rico Justice Department, the U.S. Justice Department, and the FBI actions during the first investigation, alleging corruption within the agencies and a conspiracy to cover-up evidence. Letters were sent by various community and political leaders to then Senate Judiciary Committee chairman Senator Edward M. Kennedy, asking for an inquiry into the conduct of the Federal investigations. Several letters even accused former US Attorney General Benjamin R. Civiletti of providing aid to Gov. Romero Barceló during the investigations. Two leaders from the opposing parties, the Popular Democratic Party and the Puerto Rican Independence Party, charged that after a December 1979 meeting between the two, the Governor, then considered as a lifelong Republican, began campaigning to deliver the 41 Democratic Party convention votes of the island for President Jimmy Carter's (D) nomination for the presidency (ironically, Carter's opponent for the nomination was Senator Kennedy). Almost 45 days after President Carter won the nomination by only one delegate, the U.S. Justice Department announced that due to lack of evidence it was bringing its investigation of the case to an end. A Justice Department internal memorandum that was issued the same month of Romero Barceló's and Civiletti's meeting later proved that the investigations were closed even when agents were still investigating important evidence of the case that could potentially incriminate the officers, including “several unexplained contusions” on a victim's face and the fact that one of the police officers recanted his original story, stating that there was in fact “two bursts of firing”.\n\nThese and several other accusations brought public and political pressure to the investigating agencies. This led to internal revisions of evidence and procedures from the first investigations both at the local and federal level, though all organizations still adamantly denied any cover-up. These second investigations led to reassignments, demotions and resignations among top officials within the PR Justice Department, including three different P.R. Secretaries of Justice (equivalent to State Attorney General) accepting and resigning their posts in a span of six months. On November 29, 1983, three prosecutors were relieved of their duties after a report by the state Senate Investigations Committee found they had failed to properly investigate the Cerro Maravilla shootings, citing 101 specific deficiencies in two investigations. This was the third state Attorney General to oversee the investigations since the shootings occurred in 1978.\n\nThe second investigations led to ten officers being indicted and found guilty of perjury, destruction of evidence, and obstruction of justice, four of which were convicted of second-degree murder in 1984. The convicted officers, who were no longer on active duty, and their status with the Puerto Rico Police were:\n\n\nThat same year, in the general elections held in November, Romero Barceló lost his gubernatorial seat against former governor and opposing party rival Rafael Hernández Colón (PPD). It is widely accepted that Romero Barceló lost the elections because of this case, since his public opinion rating had deteriorated substantially during late 1984 as the investigations progressed, and since his political rivals used his defense of the officers as an indication of a possible conspiracy.\n\nAlejandro Gonzalez Malavé, the undercover agent who was accompanying the activists, was not indicted for his part in the slayings because he was granted immunity for testifying against other officers, but was removed from the police force due to public pressure. In February 1986, he was acquitted of kidnapping the taxi driver. His lawyer had argued that he was acting under orders and, therefore, it was the government who was actually guilty of kidnapping. This, despite the testimony presented by officer Carmelo Cruz who had testified that it was Gonzalez who recklessly endangered the hostage's life. The prosecution had provided evidence that he threatened the hostage at gunpoint, drove the car, and, when the car approached the mountaintop, refused to free the hostage despite suggestions from the activists. These actions, according to officer Cruz, were contrary to standard police procedures since his primary concern should have been the safety of the hostage. Nevertheless, the Puerto Rico Police Department did not reinstate Gonzalez as an active police officer, a fact that he publicly expressed resentment over, and subsequently threatened to provide incriminating evidence to the media about other individuals involved in the shootings unless reinstated.\n\nOn the evening of April 29, 1986, just two months after his acquittal, Gonzalez was assassinated in front of his mother's house in Bayamón. He sustained three gunshot wounds and his mother was slightly injured. A few hours later, a group identifying itself as the “Volunteer Organization for the Revolution” called local news agencies claiming responsibility. In their statements they swore to kill, \"one by one,\" all the policemen involved in the deaths in Cerro Maravilla. The FBI considered it one of the most dangerous terrorist organizations in the United States at the time, given that it was the same organization that claimed responsibility for an attack on a Navy bus in Puerto Rico on December 3, 1979, in which two Navy men were killed and 10 people injured, and the attack on a U.S. National Guard base on January 12, 1981, in which six fighter-jet planes were destroyed. To this day, no one has been identified as a possible suspect in Gonzalez's murder, and the case remains unsolved.\n\nIn 1992, former US Justice Department Civil Rights Division chief Drew S. Days III admitted before the P.R. Senate that the U.S. Justice Department and the FBI acted negligently during the 1978–1980 investigations of the Cerro Maravilla incident, such as rejecting interviews with key witnesses (including the taxi driver), refusing to offer immunity to certain witnesses, and avoiding various standard investigating tasks. Days stated: \"I think that certainly an apology is justified with respect to the way the federal government handled its investigation: the FBI, the Justice Department, and my division... it was not done in the professional way that it should have been done.\" FBI Director William S. Sessions had made similar concessions in a written statement in 1990, stating: “In hindsight, the eyewitness should have been interviewed and a civil rights investigation initiated”.\n\nIn 2003, 25 years after the incident, former Gov. Romero Barceló admitted in a public radio interview that it was “an error of judgment” and “a premature declaration” to laud the police officers, since at that time he believed they were telling the truth about their self-defense. However, he has publicly denied any wrongdoing regarding the alleged cover-up during the first investigations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3049985", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3049985", "title": "Colonization of Antarctica", "text": "Colonization of Antarctica\n\nColonization of Antarctica refers to having humans including families living permanently on the continent of Antarctica. Currently, the continent only hosts a temporary transient population of scientists and support staff. Antarctica is the only continent on Earth without indigenous human inhabitants.\n\nAt present scientists and staff from 30 countries live on about 70 bases (40 year-round and 30 summer-only), with an approximate population of 4000 in summer and 1000 in winter. There have been at least eleven human births in Antarctica, eight at an Argentine base (including the first one) and three at a Chilean base.\n\nAn idea common in the 1950s was to have Antarctic cities enclosed under glass domes, which would make colonization of this continent possible. Power and temperature regulation of the domes would come from atomic driven generators outside of these domes. A light source at the top of the central tower had been proposed as an artificial sun during the dark months in Antarctica. This scenario would also include regular trans-Antarctic flights as well as mining towns which were dug into Antarctica's ice caps above the shafts down to mineral bearing mountains; however, there are problems with the idea of having an atomic driven generator giving the power and temperature regulation. The atomic reactor at McMurdo Station became a pollution hazard and hence was closed down long ago.\n\nThe Antarctic Treaty System, a series of international agreements, presently limit activities on Antarctica. It would need to be modified or abandoned before large-scale colonization could legally occur, in particular with respect to the Protocol on Environmental Protection to the Antarctic Treaty. On the other hand, it is the very impracticability of permanent colonization that has contributed to the failure of any of the territorial claims to receive international recognition.\n\nBuckminster Fuller, the developer of the geodesic dome, had raised the possibility of Antarctic domed cities that would allow a controlled climate and buildings erected under the dome. His first specific published proposal for a domed city in 1965 discussed the Antarctic as a likely first location for such a project. The second base at Amundsen–Scott South Pole Station (operated 1975-2003) resembles a reduced version of this idea; it is only large enough to cover a few scientific buildings.\n\nIn 1971, a team led by German architect Frei Otto made a feasibility study for an air-supported city dome two kilometers across that could house 40,000 residents. Some authors have recently tried to update the idea.\n\nThough the environment of Antarctica is too harsh for permanent human settlement to be worthwhile, conditions may become better in the future. It has been suggested that, as a result of long-term effects of global warming, the beginning of the 22nd century will see parts of West Antarctica experiencing similar climate conditions to those found today in Alaska and Northern Scandinavia. Even farming and crop growing could be possible in some of the most northerly areas of Antarctica.\n\nEmilio Marcos Palma (born January 7, 1978) is an Argentine citizen who is the first person known to be born on the continent of Antarctica. He was born in Fortín Sargento Cabral at the Esperanza Base near the tip of the Antarctic Peninsula and weighed 3.4 kg (7 lb 8 oz).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "930376", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=930376", "title": "Consistent life ethic", "text": "Consistent life ethic\n\nThe consistent life ethic, or the consistent ethic of life is an ideology that opposes abortion, capital punishment, assisted suicide, and euthanasia. Adherents are opposed, at the very least, to unjust war, while some adherents also profess pacifism, or opposition to all war. The term was popularized in 1983 by the Catholic Cardinal Joseph Bernardin to express an ideology based on the premise that all human life is sacred and should be protected by law.\n\nThe phrase \"consistent ethic of life\" was used as far back as a 1971 speech delivered by then-Archbishop Humberto Medeiros of Boston.\n\nIn 1971, Roman Catholic pacifist Eileen Egan coined the phrase \"seamless garment\" to describe a holistic reverence for life. The phrase is a Bible reference from John 19:23 to the seamless robe of Jesus, which his executioners did not tear apart. The seamless garment philosophy holds that issues such as abortion, capital punishment, militarism, euthanasia, social injustice, and economic injustice all demand a consistent application of moral principles that value the sacredness of human life. \"The protection of life\", said Egan, \"is a seamless garment. You can't protect some life and not others.\" Her words were meant to challenge those members of the pro-life movement who were in favor of capital punishment.\n\nCardinal Joseph Bernardin of Chicago helped publicize the consistent life ethic idea in 1983. Initially, Bernardin spoke out against nuclear war and abortion. However, he quickly expanded the scope of his view to include all aspects of human life. In one of the first speeches given on the topic at Fordham University, Bernardin said: \"The spectrum of life cuts across the issues of genetics, abortion, capital punishment, modern warfare and the care of the terminally ill.\" Bernardin said that although each of the issues was distinct, nevertheless the issues were linked since the valuing and defending of (human) life were, he believed, at the center of both issues. Bernardin told an audience in Portland, Oregon: \"When human life is considered 'cheap' or easily expendable in one area, eventually nothing is held as sacred and all lives are in jeopardy.\"\n\nBernardin drew his stance from New Testament principles, specifically of forgiveness and reconciliation, yet he argued that neither the themes nor the content generated from those themes were specifically Christian. By doing this, Bernardin attempted to create a dialogue with others who were not necessarily aligned with Christianity.\n\nBernardin and other advocates of this ethic sought to form a consistent policy that would link abortion, capital punishment, economic injustice, euthanasia, and unjust war. Bernardin sought to unify conservative Catholics (who opposed abortion) and liberal Catholics (who opposed capital punishment) in the United States. By relying on fundamental principles, Bernardin also sought to coordinate work on several different spheres of Catholic moral theology. In addition, Bernardin argued that since the 1950s the church had moved against its own historical, casuistic exceptions to the protection of life. \"To summarize the shift succinctly, the presumption against taking human life has been strengthened and the exceptions made ever more restrictive.\"\n\nThe non-profit organization Consistent Life Network, founded in 1987 as the Seamless Garment Network, promotes adherence to the ethic through education and non-violent action. Individual endorsers belonging to the Consistent Life Network organization include Father Daniel Berrigan, theologian Harvey Cox, \"Village Voice\" columnist Nat Hentoff, Father Theodore Hesburgh, actress Patricia Heaton, \"L'Arche\" founder Jean Vanier, death penalty activist Sister Helen Prejean, pro-life activist Abby Johnson, author Ken Kesey, Archbishop of Canterbury Rowan Williams and Nobel Peace Prize laureates Mairead Corrigan Maguire and Adolfo Pérez Esquivel. Rachel MacNair, for ten years (1994–2004) President of Feminists for Life, a pro-life organization, is the director of the Institute for Integrated Social Analysis, the research arm of Consistent Life Network.\n\nIn the US, several groups have promoted the \"consistent ethic of life\" approach, including the United States Conference of Catholic Bishops, Democrats for Life of America, and the American Solidarity Party, a Christian Democratic political organization. Groups without a religious orientation that support the ideology include Democrats for Life of America, the Pro-Life Alliance of Gays and Lesbians (PLAGAL), and All Our Lives (a pro-contraception feminist group), all of which are members of the Consistent Life Network. Other secular groups supporting a consistent ethic of life position include Rehumanize International (formerly known as Life Matters Journal) and New Wave Feminists. Other prominent authors who have written in support of the consistent life ethic include Frank Pavone, James Martin, John Dear, Ron Sider Tony Campolo, Joel Hunter, Wendell Berry, and Shane Claiborne.\n\nAccording to Michael Leach, \"If one contends, as we do, that the right of every fetus to be born should be protected by civil law and supported by civil consensus, then our moral, political and economic responsibilities do not stop at the moment of birth.\" This viewpoint was emphasized by Pope John Paul II in his 1995 encyclical, \"Evangelium Vitae\" (Gospel of Life). This book-length document outlined the Pope's emphasis on fostering a culture of life based on the New Testament and the life of Jesus. Specifically, he emphasized the value and inviolability of human life, from conception until natural death.\n\nRather than \"thinking of a pregnant women and her fetus as being adversaries battling over exclusive rights, the right of a woman to control her body versus the right of the fetus to live long enough to control hers\", a consistent life ethic would view both as valuable and important, and seek to provide both all the support they needed to live and live well.\n\nTraditionally, arguments for the death penalty focus on the idea that it: 1) deters further violence; 2) enacts just retribution on the criminal, effectively gaining a sense of justice for society and those affected by the crime; 3) seeks to reform other criminals with the threat of such severe punishment and; 4) protects society from those criminals which the government has deemed to be the most heinous.\n\nBernardin and some other consistent life ethic advocates recognize the right of the state to use capital punishment. However, they reject the necessity of this type of punishment for many reasons, arguing that there are more appropriate and effective ways for the state to defend its people. Many consistent life ethic advocates call for a total abolition of the death penalty. The consistent ethic's opposition to capital punishment is rooted in the conviction that an atmosphere of respect for life must pervade a society, and resorting to the death penalty does not support this attitude. Adherents argue that the result of the death penalty – removing the criminal from society, enacting justice on the criminal, and bringing about feelings of revenge for those affected and the greater society – do not necessarily have to be accomplished by taking a life.\n\nOne out-spoken anti-death penalty activist is Sister Helen Prejean. Her books \"Dead Man Walking\" and \"The Death of Innocents: An Eyewitness Account to Wrongful Executions\" are autobiographical accounts of the time she spent ministering to death row inmates. Another notable independent Catholic anti-death penalty organization is Priests for Life.\n\nBernardin understood the consistent life ethic as implying a societal responsibility to provide adequate health care for all, especially the poor.\n\nAccording to Ron Hamel...a moral vision constituted by the consistent ethic of life sensitizes one to procedures, technological developments, and aspects of the health care system that fail to promote or do not adequately promote human dignity and do not sufficiently enhance human life. ...it is not sufficient to only oppose euthanasia, but one must also be concerned about and address those factors that give rise to euthanasia and find ever better ways to care for the dying and ensure the dying the opportunity to forgo treatment and to live their lives fully while dying.\n\nAs such, appeals to the consistent life ethic have been made in support of universal health care. \n\nThe consistent life ethic has been invoked to include care for immigrants and refugees. While not directly appealing to the consistent life ethic, other Catholics have sought to apply the \"pro-life\" ethic to the issue of immigration.\n\nOne criticism made of the consistent life ethic position is that it inadvertently helped provide \"cover\" or support for politicians who supported legalized abortion or wanted to minimize this issue, a circumstance that Bernardin himself both recognized and deplored.\nA critic of Joseph Bernardin, George Weigel rejected the claims that the consistent life ethic had been created to cover up for abortion rights, saying that Bernardin was \"a committed pro-lifer\".\n\nArchbishop José Gómez of Los Angeles criticized the \"seamless garment\" approach in 2016 because in his view it results in \"a mistaken idea that all issues are morally equivalent.\"\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58107763", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58107763", "title": "Dahyan air strike", "text": "Dahyan air strike\n\nOn 9 August 2018, Saudi Arabian expeditionary aircraft bombed a civilian school bus passing through a crowded market with U.S made bombs in Dahyan, Saada Governorate, Yemen, near the border with Saudi Arabia. At least 40 children were killed, all under 15 years old and most under age 10. Sources disagree on the exact number of deaths, but they estimate that the air strike killed about 51 people.\n\nAccording to Save the Children, at the time of the attack the children were on a bus heading back to school from a picnic when the driver stopped to get refreshment at the market in Dahyan. Most of the children were under age 10, according to the International Committee of the Red Cross. A Red Cross – supported hospital in Saada received the bodies of 29 children under 15 years of age and 48 wounded individuals, 30 of whom were children. A total of 40 children were killed in the strike.\n\nAccording to a resident of Dahyan, the warplanes had been hovering over the area for more than an hour before they attacked. Another witness said, \"Our shops were open and shoppers were walking around as usual. All those who died were residents, children and shop owners.\" According to Yahya Hussein, a teacher who was traveling separately from the bus, \"The scene can't be described—there was body parts and blood everywhere.\"\n\nThe bomb that killed the children was a MK 82 bomb made by Lockheed Martin. It had been supplied by the United States to Saudi Arabia.\n\nThe attack came to light after videos were posted on Twitter depicting the remains of the bus and the children. Images of the victims were aired on the Al Masirah TV network, highlighting dramatic images of blood and debris-covered children lying on hospital stretchers. The Saudi Arabian coalition later issued a statement saying that they conducted an airstrike in Saada but were targeting Houthi missile launchers. The mass funeral of the children was aired on the Al Mariah TV network, with thousands of Yemenis participating.\n\nThe official Saudi Arabian press agency called the strike a \"legitimate military action\" which targeted those who were responsible for a rebel missile attack on the Saudi Arabian city of Jizan on Wednesday. They also claimed that the airstrikes \"conformed to international and humanitarian laws\" and that Houthis were using children as human shields. Yemeni journalist Nasser Arrabyee reported that there were no Houthis in the vicinity of the strike. A Houthi spokesman said that the coalition showed \"clear disregard for civilian life\", as the attack had targeted a crowded public place in the city. During the mass funeral of the children, many signs were visible protesting against the United States, Saudi Arabia, and Israel.\n\nOn 1 September 2018, the Saudi Arabian-led coalition admitted mistakes, expressing regrets and pledged to hold those responsible for the strikes accountable.\n\nUnited Nations Secretary-General António Guterres condemned the attack and called for an independent and prompt investigation, and UNICEF strongly condemned the attack.\n\nThe United States Department of State called for Saudi Arabia to conduct an investigation into the strike. The United Kingdom's Foreign and Commonwealth Office expressed \"deep concern\", called for a transparent investigation, and called upon all parties to prevent civilian casualties and to co-operate with the UN to reach a lasting political solution in Yemen. UK Foreign Secretary Jeremy Hunt defended the Saudi–British alliance as important in fighting Islamists.\n\nThe head of the Yemeni delegation of the International Committee of the Red Cross tweeted, \"@ICRC_Yemen-supported hospital has received dozens of dead and wounded. Under international humanitarian law, civilians must be protected during conflict.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "47084876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47084876", "title": "Death of Mary Jane Barker", "text": "Death of Mary Jane Barker\n\nOn February 25, 1957, Mary Jane Barker, an American 4-year-old girl from Bellmawr, New Jersey (southeast of Philadelphia), United States went missing along with her playmate's dog. After an extensive search throughout the city, dubbed by the press as \"the largest search in South Jersey\", her dead body was discovered by her playmate in the closet of a vacant house near her home on March 3. The dog bounded out of the closet, seemingly unharmed.\n\nDespite the initial suspicion of foul play, the death was ruled an accident; a case of starvation and exposure as Barker was unable to escape the closet. Investigators concluded that Barker died on February 28, three days after her disappearance. As a result, the mayor ordered closet doors to open more easily. The press surrounding the Barker case also led to the first calls about the Boy in the Box.\n\nMary Jane Barker was born in Bellmawr, New Jersey, U.S., on February 28, 1953, to Mr. and Mrs. Frank Barker. She had two older siblings: Carol Ann, 8 years older; and Frank Jr., 6 years older.\n\nBarker disappeared along with a four-month old black spaniel puppy at 10:30 a.m. on Monday, February 25, 1957, in Bellmawr. She was last seen playing in a nearby yard, going to meet with her friend and neighbor, 6-year-old Maria Freitta, the owner of the dog. Police were notified by 1:30 p.m. She was presumed kidnapped, and the next day footprints were found along a nearby stream bank which seemed those of a man, child, and dog. The police stated that the small footprints on the mud matched the size of Barker's shoes.\n\nHer disappearance \"touched off an intensive search for a kidnapper or murderer\" according to \"The Philadelphia Inquirer\". It was called \"the largest search in South Jersey.\" Hundreds of volunteers and police searched the city. On the first night more than 200 civilians did a foot-by-foot search. Eventually well over a thousand people were involved. Her fourth birthday came and went with no sign of her.\n\nOn Wednesday, February 27, the parents made an appeal on television to anyone who may have kidnapped Barker, asking them to \"leave the child in the nearest church.\" Vern Lovering, a 43-year old floor sander and convicted child molester had been questioned, and said he was near the Barker home. On Thursday, February 28, the Federal Bureau of Investigation (FBI) conducted its own search, and the next day again questioned Lovering after police received a phone call demanding $500 ransom. Police made an appeal to the kidnapper not to \"act in haste or do harm to the child.\"\n\nThe grief of the Barker family was especially acute on February 28 and March 1 since those were the birthdays of Barker and her father, and they were planning to have a joint celebration that week. The police stated that they were working on several leads but had no developments. On Saturday, March 2, the FBI was officially called in following the provisions of the Federal Kidnapping Act. Several nearby dumps were searched to no avail.\n\nOn Sunday, March 3, Maria Freitta, the owner of the dog and the playmate of Barker, went with her mother to a vacant, newly built ranch house next door to her home. It was on 433 2nd Ave, owned by her aunt and uncle, Mr. and Mrs. Pat Vecchia. Maria managed to open a 3 ft × 5 ft bedroom closet's door, and her missing dog bounded out of the closet and leaped happily at her. Also in the closet was Barker, dead, in a seated position, the hood of her blue coat partially covering her blonde hair. She was found in the same clothes she had on when she disappeared. Bits of fur from her hat were rubbed off. Police Chief Edward Garrity stated he believed that Barker had recently been placed in the closet as the puppy had been fed recently, and there was no animal waste in the closet despite the dog not being housebroken.\n\nDuring previous searches, including a visit by a repairman, no dog was heard. The house had been searched three times before, but the bedroom closet where her body was found was not searched. Rev. Harry McIntyre looked in bedroom closets on February 26, but it never occurred to him to search the front-bedroom closet. \"I concentrated on the basement, believing the girl might have fallen down the stairs,\" he said. A volunteer fireman, John Reeves, also searched the first-floor bedroom but not the closet. Barker may have been too frightened to cry out.\nAlthough the door was unlocked, a thumb screw inside apparently made it difficult for a child to open. The door had a knob on the outside, but only a small turn latch on the inside.\n\nOn March 4, the autopsy indicated Barker had nothing in her system since some chocolate milk the morning of her disappearance, and had not eaten since she vanished. There was no indication of foul play; no signs of violence or sexual molestation. It was found she must have lived in the closet for three days without food or drink. An inspection of the closet showed marks from her attempt to escape.\n\nIt was found the dog was with her the whole time. The dog was \"alive and frisky\", which initially led investigators to believe she had been in the closet only a short time. The dog was first taken to a local veterinarians for study, but they concluded that it was possible that the dog had to be put down to examine his stomach contents. Dr. Robert Sauer, the veterinarian, stated that the survival of the dog for several days was consistent with the stamina of such an animal. On March 4, the dog was euthanized in order to allow veterinarians from the University of Pennsylvania to examine its stomach contents, and establish why the dog outlived Barker. Investigators wanted to know if the dog was without food or water since Barker's disappearance.\n\nCamden County Coroner Robert J. Blake ruled her death an accident; a case of starvation with exposure as a contributing factor. A spokesman for the coroner said Barker became trapped in the closet, and died of fright and starvation. Due to a hole in the closet, she could not have suffocated.\n\nOn March 7, Mayor Cornelius Devennel ordered all closet doors to be equipped with special knobs that can open easily from both inside and outside. This order was made mandatory for all new home constructions or reconstructions. A ceremony in her memory was held at the St. Francis de Sales Church that same day. On March 20, radio station WPEN presented Freitta with a new puppy, an English Setter.\n\nThe press surrounding the Barker case led to the first calls about the Boy in the Box. Frank Guthrum, who discovered the boy, had decided not to call the police until he listened to reports of the Barker case on his car radio.\n"}
{"id": "1007558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1007558", "title": "Dorothea Mackellar", "text": "Dorothea Mackellar\n\nIsobel Marion Dorothea Mackellar (better known as Dorothea Mackellar), (1 July 1885 – 14 January 1968) was an Australian poet and fiction writer. Her poem \"My Country\" is widely known in Australia, especially its second stanza, which begins: \"I love a sunburnt country/A land of sweeping plains,/Of ragged mountain ranges,/Of droughts and flooding rains.\"\n\nThe third child and only daughter of physician and parliamentarian Sir Charles Mackellar and his wife Marion MacKellar (née Buckland), the daughter of Thomas Buckland, she was born in the family home \"Dunara\" at Point Piper, Sydney, Australia in 1885. Her later home was \"Cintra\" at Darling Point (built in 1882 by John Mackintosh for his son James), and in 1925, she commissioned a summer cottage (in reality a substantial home with colonnaded verandah overlooking Pittwater), \"Tarrangaua\" at Lovett Bay, an isolated location on Pittwater reachable only by boat (this home is currently the residence of the novelist and author Susan Duncan and her husband, Bob Story, and features prominently in a number of Susan's books). A woman of independent means, she published poetry and other works between 1908 and 1926 and was active in the Sydney literary scene of the 1930s, being involved with the Sydney Publishers, Editors and Novelists Club, the Bush Book Club of New South Wales and the Sydney P.E.N. Club. In her later years she ceased writing and, suffering poor health, her last eleven years were spent in a nursing home in Randwick where she died in 1968, aged 82. She is buried in Waverley Cemetery, in Sydney's Eastern suburbs in Australia.\n\nAlthough she was raised in a professional urban family, Mackellar's poetry is usually regarded as quintessential bush poetry, inspired by her experience on her brothers' farms near Gunnedah, in the north-west of New South Wales. Her best-known poem is \"My Country\", written at age 19 while homesick in England, and first published in the London \"Spectator\" in 1908 under the title \"Core of My Heart\": the second stanza of this poem is among the best known in Australia. Four volumes of her collected verse were published: \"The Closed Door\" (published in 1911, contained the first appearance of \"My Country\"); \"The Witch Maid, and Other Verses\" (1914); \"Dreamharbour\" (1923); and \"Fancy Dress\" (1926).\n\nIn addition to writing poems, Mackellar also wrote novels, one by herself, \"Outlaw's Luck\" (1913), and at least two in collaboration with Ruth Bedford. These are \"The Little Blue Devil\" (1912) and \"Two's Company\" (1914). According to Dale Spender, little has been written or is yet known about the circumstances behind this collaboration.\n\nIn the New Year's Day Honours of 1968, Dorothea Mackellar was appointed an Officer of the Order of the British Empire for her contribution to Australian literature. She died two weeks later in Paddington, New South Wales after a fall. She is buried with her father and family in Waverley Cemetery overlooking the open ocean. Also her poem \"Colour\", her own favourite, was read at the service.\n\nA federal electorate covering half of Sydney's Northern Beaches is named in her honour as well as a street in the Canberra suburb of Cook. (The Canberra suburb of McKellar was not named after her, but is often assumed to have been.)\n\nOn Australia Day, 26 January 1983, a memorial to Dorothea Mackellar was unveiled and dedicated in ANZAC Park, Gunnedah. The centrepiece of the memorial, a statue of Mackellar on horseback by Dennis Adams, was a temporary fibreglass version. The finished bronze version was installed in September 1983.\n\nIn conjunction with the January unveiling, there was an exhibition of a series of 34 water colour paintings by Jean Isherwood illustrating the writer's most famous poem, \"My Country\". The watercolours were eventually put on permanent display in the Gunnedah Bicentennial Regional Gallery. Isherwood set about painting a series of oils based on the watercolours which were exhibited at the Artarmon Galleries in Sydney in 1986.\n\nIn 1984, Gunnedah resident Mikie Maas created the \"Dorothea Mackellar Poetry Awards\", which has grown into a nationwide poetry competition for Australian school students.\n\n"}
{"id": "48791499", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48791499", "title": "Dynamic epistemic logic", "text": "Dynamic epistemic logic\n\nDynamic epistemic logic (DEL) is a logical framework dealing with knowledge and information change. Typically, DEL focuses on situations involving multiple agents and studies how their knowledge changes when events occur. These events can change factual properties of the actual world (they are called \"ontic events\"): for example a red card is painted in blue. They can also bring about changes of knowledge without changing factual properties of the world (they are called \"epistemic events\"): for example a card is revealed publicly (or privately) to be red. Originally, DEL focused on epistemic events. We only present in this entry some of the basic ideas of the original DEL framework; more details about DEL in general can be found in the references.\n\nDue to the nature of its object of study and its abstract approach, DEL is related and has applications to numerous research areas, such as computer science (artificial intelligence), philosophy (formal epistemology), economics (game theory) and cognitive science. In computer science, DEL is for example very much related to multi-agent systems, which are systems where multiple intelligent agents interact and exchange information.\n\nAs a combination of dynamic logic and epistemic logic, dynamic epistemic logic is a young field of research. It really started in 1989 with Plaza’s logic of public announcement. Independently, Gerbrandy and Groeneveld proposed a system dealing moreover with private announcement and that was inspired by the work of Veltman. Another system was proposed by van Ditmarsch whose main inspiration was the Cluedo game. But the most influential and original system was the system proposed by Baltag, Moss and Solecki. This system can deal with all the types of situations studied in the works above and its underlying methodology is conceptually grounded. We will present in this entry some of its basic ideas.\n\nFormally, DEL extends ordinary epistemic logic by the inclusion of event models to describe actions, and a product update operator that defines how epistemic models are updated as the consequence of executing actions described through event models. Epistemic logic will first be recalled. Then, actions and events will enter into the picture and we will introduce the DEL framework.\n\nEpistemic logic is a modal logic dealing with the notions of knowledge and belief. As a logic, it is concerned with understanding the process of \"reasoning\" about knowledge and belief: which principles relating the notions of knowledge and belief are intuitively plausible? Like epistemology, it stems from the Greek word formula_1 or ‘episteme’ meaning knowledge. Epistemology is nevertheless more concerned with analyzing the very \"nature\" and \"scope\" of knowledge, addressing questions such as “What is the definition of knowledge?” or “How is knowledge acquired?”. In fact, epistemic logic grew out of epistemology in the Middle Ages thanks to the efforts of Burley and Ockham. The formal work, based on modal logic, that inaugurated contemporary research into epistemic logic dates back only to 1962 and is due to Hintikka. It then sparked in the 1960s discussions about the principles of knowledge and belief and many axioms for these notions were proposed and discussed. For example, the interaction axioms formula_2 and formula_3 are often considered to be intuitive principles: if an agent Knows formula_4 then (s)he also Believes formula_4, or if an agent Believes formula_4, then (s)he Knows that (s)he Believes formula_4. More recently, these kinds of philosophical theories were taken up by researchers in economics, artificial intelligence and theoretical computer science where reasoning about knowledge is a central topic. Due to the new setting in which epistemic logic was used, new perspectives and new features such as computability issues were then added to the research agenda of epistemic logic.\n\nIn the sequel, formula_8 is a finite set whose elements are called agents and formula_9 is a set of propositional letters.\n\nThe epistemic language is an extension of the basic multi-modal language of modal logic with a common knowledge operator formula_10 and a distributed knowledge operator formula_11. Formally, the epistemic language formula_12 is defined inductively by the following grammar in BNF:\n\nformula_13\n\nwhere formula_14, formula_15 and formula_16. The basic epistemic language formula_17 is the language formula_18 without the common knowledge and distributed knowledge operators. The formula formula_19 is an abbreviation for formula_20 (for a given formula_14), formula_22 is an abbreviation for formula_23, formula_24 is an abbreviation for formula_25 and formula_26 an abbreviation for formula_27.\n\nGroup notions: general, common and distributed knowledge.\n\nIn a multi-agent setting there are three important epistemic concepts: general knowledge, distributed knowledge and common knowledge. The notion of common knowledge was first studied by Lewis in the context of conventions. It was then applied to distributed systems and to game theory, where it allows to express that the rationality of the players, the rules of the game and the set of players are commonly known.\n\n\"General knowledge.\"\n\nGeneral knowledge of formula_28 means that everybody in the group of agents formula_29 knows that formula_28. Formally, this corresponds to the following formula:\n\nformula_31\n\n\"Common knowledge.\"\n\nCommon knowledge of formula_28 means that everybody knows formula_28 but also that everybody knows that everybody knows formula_28, that everybody knows that everybody knows that everybody knows formula_28, and so on \"ad infinitum\". Formally, this corresponds to the following formula\n\nformula_36\n\nAs we do not allow infinite conjunction the notion of common knowledge will have to be introduced as a primitive in our language.\n\nBefore defining the language with this new operator, we are going to give an example introduced by Lewis that illustrates the difference between the notions of general knowledge and common knowledge. Lewis wanted to know what kind of knowledge is needed so that the statement formula_4: “every driver must drive on the right” be a convention among a group of agents. In other words, he wanted to know what kind of knowledge is needed so that everybody feels safe to drive on the right. Suppose there are only two agents formula_38 and formula_39. Then everybody knowing formula_4 (formally formula_41) is not enough. Indeed, it might still be possible that the agent formula_38 considers possible that the agent formula_39 does not know formula_4 (formally formula_45). In that case the agent formula_38 will not feel safe to drive on the right because he might consider that the agent formula_39, not knowing formula_4, could drive on the left. To avoid this problem, we could then assume that everybody knows that everybody knows that formula_4 (formally formula_50). This is again not enough to ensure that everybody feels safe to drive on the right. Indeed, it might still be possible that agent formula_38 considers possible that agent formula_39 considers possible that agent formula_38 does not know formula_4 (formally formula_55). In that case and from formula_38’s point of view, formula_39 considers possible that formula_38, not knowing formula_4, will drive on the left. So from formula_38’s point of view, formula_39 might drive on the left as well (by the same argument as above). So formula_38 will not feel safe to drive on the right. Reasoning by induction, Lewis showed that for any formula_63, formula_64 is not enough for the drivers to feel safe to drive on the right. In fact what we need is an infinite conjunction. In other words, we need common knowledge of formula_4: formula_66.\n\n\"Distributed knowledge.\"\n\nDistributed knowledge of formula_28 means that if the agents pulled their knowledge altogether, they would know that formula_28 holds. In other words, the knowledge of formula_28 is \"distributed\" among the agents. The formula formula_70 reads as ‘it is distributed knowledge among the set of agents formula_71 that formula_28 holds’.\n\nEpistemic logic is a modal logic. So, what we call an epistemic model formula_73 is just a Kripke model as defined in modal logic. The set formula_74 is a non-empty set whose elements are called \"possible worlds\" and the \"interpretation\" formula_75 is a function specifying which propositional facts (such as ‘Ann has the red card’) are true in each of these worlds. The \"accessibility relations\" formula_76 are binary relations for each agent formula_77; they are intended to capture the uncertainty of each agent (about the actual world and about the other agents' uncertainty). Intuitively, we have formula_78 when the world formula_79 is compatible with agent formula_39’s information in world formula_81 or, in other words, when agent formula_39 considers that world formula_79 might correspond to the world formula_81 (from this standpoint). We abusively write formula_85 for formula_86 and formula_87 denotes the set of worlds formula_88.\n\nIntuitively, a pointed epistemic model formula_89, where formula_85, represents from an external point of view how the actual world formula_81 is perceived by the agents formula_29.\n\nFor every epistemic model formula_93, every formula_94 and every formula_95, we define formula_96 inductively by the following truth conditions:\n\nwhere formula_97 is the transitive closure of formula_98: we have that formula_99 if, and only if, there are formula_100 and formula_101 such that formula_102 and for all formula_103, formula_104.\n\nDespite the fact that the notion of common belief has to be introduced as a primitive in the language, we can notice that the definition of epistemic models does not have to be modified in order to give truth value to the common knowledge and distributed knowledge operators.\n\nCard Example:\n\nPlayers formula_71, formula_106 and formula_107 (standing for Ann, Bob and Claire) play a card game with three cards: a red one, a green one and a blue one. Each of them has a single card but they do not know the cards of the other players. Ann has the red card, Bob has the green card and Claire has the blue card. This example is depicted in the pointed epistemic model formula_108 represented below. In this example, formula_109 and formula_110. Each world is labelled by the propositional letters which are true in this world and formula_81 corresponds to the actual world. There is an arrow indexed by agent formula_112 from a possible world formula_113 to a possible world formula_79 when formula_115. Reflexive arrows are omitted, which means that for all formula_116 and all formula_117, we have that formula_118.\n\nformula_119 stands for : \"formula_71 has the red card<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\n\nformula_121 stand for: \"formula_107 has the blue card<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\n\nformula_123 stands for: \"formula_106 has the green card<nowiki>\"</nowiki>\n\nand so on...\n\nWhen accessibility relations are equivalence relations (like in this example) and we have that formula_78, we say that agent formula_39 \"cannot distinguish\" world formula_81 from world formula_79 (or world formula_81 is indistinguishable from world formula_79 for agent formula_39). So, for example, formula_132 cannot distinguish the actual world formula_81 from the possible world where formula_106 has the blue card (formula_135), formula_107 has the green card (formula_137) and formula_71 still has the red card (formula_119).\n\nIn particular, the following statements hold:\n\nformula_140\n\n'All the agents know the color of their card'.\n\nformula_141\n\n'formula_71 knows that formula_106 has either the blue or the green card and that formula_107 has either the blue or the green card'.\n\nformula_145\n\n'Everybody knows that formula_71 has either the red, green or blue card and this is even common knowledge among all agents'.\n\nWe use the same notation formula_147 for both knowledge and belief. Hence, depending on the context, formula_148 will either read ‘the agent formula_39 \"K\"nows that formula_28 holds’ or ‘the agent formula_39 \"B\"elieves that formula_28 holds’. A crucial difference is that, unlike knowledge, beliefs can be \"wrong\": the axiom formula_153 holds only for knowledge, but not necessarily for belief. This axiom called axiom T (for Truth) states that if the agent knows a proposition, then this proposition is true. It is often considered to be the hallmark of knowledge and it has not been subjected to any serious attack ever since its introduction in the Theaetetus by Plato.\n\nThe notion of knowledge might comply to some other constraints (or axioms) such as formula_154: if agent formula_39 knows something, she knows that she knows it. These constraints might affect the nature of the accessibility relations formula_156 which may then comply to some extra properties. So, we are now going to define some particular classes of epistemic models that all add some extra constraints on the accessibility relations formula_156. These constraints are matched by particular axioms for the knowledge operator formula_147. Below each property, we give the axiom which \"defines\" the class of epistemic frames that fulfill this property. (formula_159 stands for formula_148 for any formula_77.)\n\nWe discuss the axioms above. Axiom 4 states that if the agent knows a proposition, then she knows that she knows it (this axiom is also known as the “KK-principle”or “KK-thesis”). In epistemology, axiom 4 tends to be accepted by internalists, but not by externalists. Axiom 4 is nevertheless widely accepted by computer scientists (but also by many philosophers, including Plato, Aristotle, Saint Augustine, Spinoza and Schopenhauer, as Hintikka recalls ). A more controversial axiom for the logic of knowledge is axiom 5 for Euclidicity: this axiom states that if the agent does not know a proposition, then she knows that she does not know it. Most philosophers (including Hintikka) have attacked this axiom, since numerous examples from everyday life seem to invalidate it. In general, axiom 5 is invalidated when the agent has mistaken beliefs, which can be due for example to misperceptions, lies or other forms of deception. Axiom B states that it cannot be the case that the agent considers it possible that she knows a false proposition (that is, formula_162). If we assume that axioms T and 4 are valid, then axiom B falls prey to the same attack as the one for axiom 5 since this axiom is derivable. Axiom D states that the agent’s beliefs are consistent. In combination with axiom K (where the knowledge operator is replaced by a belief operator), axiom D is in fact equivalent to a simpler axiom D' which conveys, maybe more explicitly, the fact that the agent’s beliefs cannot be inconsistent: formula_163. The other intricate axioms .2, .3, .3.2 and .4 have been introduced by epistemic logicians such as Lenzen and Kutchera in the 1970s and presented for some of them as key axioms of epistemic logic. They can be characterized in terms of intuitive interaction axioms relating knowledge and beliefs.\n\nThe Hilbert proof system K for the basic modal logic is defined by the following axioms and inference rules: for all formula_77,\n\nThe axioms of an epistemic logic obviously display the way the agents reason. For example, the axiom K together with the rule of inference Nec entail that if I know formula_28 (formula_159) and I know that formula_28 implies formula_168 (formula_169 then I know that formula_168 (formula_171). Stronger constraints can be added. The following proof systems for formula_172 are often used in the literature.\n\nWe define the set of proof systems formula_173.\n\nMoreover, for all formula_174, we define the proof system formula_175 by adding the following axiom schemes and rules of inference to those of formula_176. For all formula_177,\n\nThe relative strength of the proof systems for knowledge is as follows:\n\nformula_178\n\nSo, all the theorems of formula_179 are also theorems of formula_180 and formula_181. Many philosophers claim that in the most general cases, the logic of knowledge is formula_179 or formula_183. Typically, in computer science and in many of the theories developed in artificial intelligence, the logic of belief (\"doxastic\" logic) is taken to be formula_184 and the logic of knowledge (\"epistemic\" logic) is taken to be formula_181, even if formula_181 is only suitable for situations where the agents do not have mistaken beliefs. formula_187 has been propounded by Floridi as the logic of the notion of 'being informed’ which mainly differs from the logic of knowledge by the absence of introspection for the agents.\n\nFor all formula_174, the class of formula_176–models or formula_175–models is the class of epistemic models whose accessibility relations satisfy the properties listed above defined by the axioms of formula_176 or formula_175. Then, for all formula_174, formula_176 is sound and strongly complete for formula_172 w.r.t. the class of formula_176–models, and formula_175 is sound and strongly complete for formula_198 w.r.t. the class of formula_175–models.\n\nThe satisfiability problem for all the logics introduced is decidable. We list below the computational complexity of the satisfiability problem for each of them. Note that it becomes linear in time if there are only finitely many propositional letters in the language. For formula_200, if we restrict to finite nesting, then the satisfiability problem is NP-complete for all the modal logics considered. If we then further restrict the language to having only finitely many primitive propositions, the complexity goes down to linear in time in all cases.\n\nThe computational complexity of the model checking problem is in P in all cases.\n\nDynamic Epistemic Logic (DEL) is a logical framework for modeling epistemic situations involving several agents, and changes that occur to these situations as a result of incoming information or more generally incoming action. The methodology of DEL is such that it splits the task of representing the agents’ beliefs and knowledge into three parts:\n\n\nTypically, an informative event can be a public announcement to all the agents of a formula formula_168: this public announcement and correlative update constitute the dynamic part. However, epistemic events can be much more complex than simple public announcement, including hiding information for some of the agents, cheating, lying, bluffing, \"etc.\" This complexity is dealt with when we introduce the notion of event model. We will first focus on public announcements to get an intuition of the main underlying ideas of DEL.\n\nIn this section, we assume that all events are public. We start by giving a concrete example where DEL can be used, to better understand what is going on. This example is called the muddy children puzzle. Then, we will present a formalization of this puzzle in a logic called Public Announcement Logic (PAL). The muddy children puzzle is one of the most well known puzzles that played a role in the development of DEL. Other significant puzzles include the sum and product puzzle, the Monty Hall dilemma, the Russian cards problem, the two envelopes problem, Moore's paradox, the hangman paradox, \"etc\".\n\nMuddy Children Example:\n\nWe have two children, A and B, both dirty. A can see B but not himself, and B can see A but not herself. Let formula_4 be the proposition stating that A is dirty, and formula_203 be the proposition stating that B is dirty.\n\nPublic announcement logic (PAL):\n\nWe present the syntax and semantic of Public Announcement Logic (PAL), which combines features of epistemic logic and propositional dynamic logic.\n\nWe define the language formula_215 inductively by the following grammar in BNF:\n\nformula_216\n\nwhere formula_77.\n\nThe language formula_215 is interpreted over epistemic models. The truth conditions for the connectives of the epistemic language are the same as in epistemic logic (see above). The truth condition for the new dynamic action modality formula_219 is defined as follows:\n\nwhere formula_220 with\n\nformula_221,\n\nformula_222 for all formula_223 and\n\nformula_224.\n\nThe formula formula_219 intuitively means that after a truthful announcement of formula_168, formula_28 holds. A public announcement of a proposition formula_168 changes the current epistemic model like in the figure below.\n\nThe proof system formula_229 defined below is sound and strongly complete for formula_215 w.r.t. the class of all pointed epistemic models.\n\nThe axioms Red 1 - Red 4 are called \"reduction axioms\" because they allow to reduce any formula of formula_215 to a provably equivalent formula of formula_17 in formula_229. The formula formula_234 is a theorem provable in formula_229. It states that after a public announcement of formula_203, the agent knows that formula_203 holds.\n\nPAL is decidable, its model checking problem is solvable in polynomial time and its satisfiability problem is PSPACE-complete.\n\nMuddy children puzzle formalized with PAL:\n\nHere are some of the statements that hold in the muddy children puzzle formalized in PAL.\n\nformula_238\n\n'In the initial situation, A is dirty and B is dirty'.\n\nformula_239\n\n'In the initial situation, A does not know whether he is dirty and B neither'.\n\nformula_240\n\n'After the public announcement that at least one of the children A and B is dirty, both of then know that at least one of them is dirty'. However:\n\nformula_241\n\n'After the public announcement that at least one of the children A and B is dirty, they still do not know that they are dirty'. Moreover:\n\nformula_242\n\n'After the successive public announcements that at least one of the children A and B is dirty and that they still do not know whether they are dirty, A and B then both know that they are dirty'.\n\nIn this last statement, we see at work an interesting feature of the update process: a formula is not necessarily true after being announced. That is what we technically call “self-persistence” and this problem arises for epistemic formulas (unlike propositional formulas). One must not confuse the announcement and the update induced by this announcement, which might cancel some of the information encoded in the announcement.\n\nIn this section, we assume that events are not necessarily public and we focus on items 2 and 3 above, namely on how to represent events and on how to update an epistemic model with such a representation of events by means of a product update.\n\nEpistemic models are used to model how agents perceive the actual world. Their perception can also be described in terms of knowledge and beliefs about the world and about the other agents’ beliefs. The insight of the DEL approach is that one can describe how an event is perceived by the agents in a very similar way. Indeed, the agents’ perception of an event can also be described in terms of knowledge and beliefs. For example, the private announcement of formula_71 to formula_106 that her card is red can also be described in terms of knowledge and beliefs: while formula_71 tells formula_106 that her card is red (event formula_247) formula_107 \"believes\" that nothing happens (event formula_249). This leads to define the notion of event model whose definition is very similar to that of an epistemic model.\n\nA pointed event model formula_250 represents how the actual event represented by formula_247 is perceived by the agents. Intuitively, formula_252 means that while the possible event represented by formula_247 is occurring, agent formula_39 considers possible that the possible event represented by formula_249 is actually occurring.\n\nAn event model is a tuple formula_256 where:\n\n\nformula_263 denotes the set formula_264 .We write formula_265 for formula_266, and formula_250 is called a pointed event model (formula_247 often represents the actual event).\n\nCard Example:\n\nLet us resume the card example and assume that players formula_71 and formula_106 show their card to each other. As it turns out, formula_107 noticed that formula_71 showed her card to formula_106 but did not notice that formula_106 did so to formula_71. Players formula_71 and formula_106 know this. This event is represented below in the event model formula_250.\n\nThe possible event formula_247 corresponds to the actual event ‘players formula_71 and formula_106 show their and cards respectively to each other’ (with precondition formula_282), formula_249 stands for the event ‘player formula_71 shows her green card’ (with precondition formula_285) and formula_286 stands for the atomic event ‘player formula_71 shows her red card’ (with precondition formula_119). Players formula_71 and formula_106 show their cards to each other, players formula_71 and formula_106 know this and consider it possible, while player formula_107 considers possible that player formula_71 shows her red card and also considers possible that player formula_71 shows her green card, since he does not know her card. In fact, that is all that player formula_107 considers possible because she did not notice that formula_297 showed her card.\n\nAnother example of event model is given below. This second example corresponds to the event whereby Player formula_71 shows her red card publicly to everybody. Player formula_71 shows her red card, players formula_71, formula_106 and formula_107 ‘know’ it, players formula_71, formula_106 and formula_107 ‘know’ that each of them ‘knows’ it, \"etc.\" In other words, there is \"common knowledge\" among players formula_71, formula_106 and formula_107 that player formula_71 shows her red card.\n\nThe DEL product update is defined below. This update yields a new pointed epistemic model formula_310 representing how the new situation which was previously represented by formula_89 is perceived by the agents after the occurrence of the event represented by formula_250.\n\nLet formula_313 be an epistemic model and let formula_314 be an event model. The product update of formula_93 and formula_316 is the epistemic model formula_317 defined as follows: for all formula_318 and all formula_319,\n\nIf formula_86 and formula_321 are such that formula_322 then formula_323 denotes the pointed epistemic model formula_324. This definition of the product update is conceptually grounded.\n\nCard Example:\n\nAs a result of the first event described above (Players formula_71 and formula_106 show their cards to each other in front of player formula_107), the agents update their beliefs. We get the situation represented in the pointed epistemic model formula_323 below. In this pointed epistemic model, the following statement holds: formula_329 It states that player formula_71 knows that player formula_106 has the card but player formula_107 'believes' that it is not the case.\n\nThe result of the second event is represented below. In this pointed epistemic model, the following statement holds: formula_333. It states that there is common knowledge among formula_106 and formula_107 that they know the true state of the world (namely formula_71 has the red card, formula_106 has the green card and formula_107 has the blue card), but formula_71 does not know it.\n\nBased on these three components (epistemic model, event model and product update), Baltag, Moss and Solecki defined a general logical language inspired from the logical language of propositional dynamic logic to reason about information and knowledge change.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3462661", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3462661", "title": "Erik Eriksen (explorer)", "text": "Erik Eriksen (explorer)\n\nErik Eriksen (25 February 1820 - died 1888) was a Norwegian polar captain. Eriksen was the first to sight and shore Kong Karls Land. The strait Erik Eriksenstretet between Kong Karls Land and Nordaustlandet, commemorates him. Eriksen also contributed to the invention of the grenade harpoon used in modern whaling. \n\nErik Eriksen was born at Lyngør in Aust-Agder, Norway. In 1844, he moved to Hammerfest in Finnmark, Norway. He sailed as a helmsman and from 1846 as skipper in the surrounding fishing grounds. He also married Anna Birgitte Dehle (1825–1895) with whom he had 10 children.\n\nHe later designed a whale harpoon which he carved into a wooden model. He subsequently travelled to Tønsberg to meet with whaling and shipping magnate Svend Foyn to present him with the model of a proposed grenade harpoon. In July 1868 Erik Eriksen emigrated to the United States leaving his wife and children in Norway. In 1870, Svend Foyn successfully patented and pioneered the modern exploding whaling harpoon and gun. He industrialized production and use of the deck cannons and heavy-caliber harpoons. Erik Eriksen gained neither profits nor the honor for his contribution as Foyn had financed production and development of the harpoon and it was designed while Eriksen was employed by him. However, Svend Foyn did provide financial assistance to Eriksen's family in Hammerfest. \nErik Eriksen later died during a blizzard in Dakota Territory. (Most likely the \"Schoolhouse Blizzard\" of 1888).\n\n\n\"This article is based in part on \"The Discovery of King Karl Land, Spitsbergen\" by Adolf Hoel. The Geographical Review Vol. XXV, No. 3, July, 1935, pp. 476-478, American Geographical Society, Broadway at 156th Street, New York. \n"}
{"id": "4915648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4915648", "title": "Frano Supilo", "text": "Frano Supilo\n\nFrano Supilo (30 November 1870 – 25 September 1917) was a Croatian politician and journalist. He opposed the Austro-Hungarian domination of Europe prior to World War I. He participated in the debates leading to the formation of Yugoslavia as a member of the Yugoslav Committee. The author, R. A. Stradling, calls him \"one of the most capable Croatian politicians ever.\"\n\nSupilo was born in Cavtat on 30 November 1870.\n\nHe completed elementary education in Dubrovnik. He had to drop out of naval high school because of a lack of funds, and instead finished a two-year school of agriculture with Frano Gondola. He traveled around Dalmatian vineyards educating wine-growers on peronospora.\n\nIn 1890 he started work at \"Crvena Hrvatska\" ('Red Croatia') in Dubrovnik. It was a social/political paper based on the ideas of the Croatian Party of Rights and fighting for the unification of Dalmatia with Croatia.\n\nSupilo played the main role in changing the public opinion, which expressed itself in several elections that brought down the Autonomous Party (pro-Italian) and Serbian coalition that had gained power in the municipality of Dubrovnik in the 1880s with the support of the Habsburg court, which followed the policy of \"divide et impera\". He became one of the leaders of the Croatian Party of Rights in 1895. After the party split, he campaigned against Josip Frank. \n\nIn 1900, he worked in Rijeka as the commissioner of the party's Dalmatian.\n\nIn 1900 he became the editor of \"Novi list\" in Rijeka.\n\nAlong with Ante Trumbić and Josip Smodlaka, he was one of the creators of both the Rijeka Resolution; and the Croat-Serb Coalition, both in 1905.\n\nHe was also responsible for the creation of the Croat-Serb Coalition, as well as for its coming to power. Supilo's River and Zagreb faze have historically and continuously been analysed only when the studies and books have started to appear after the fall of SFRJ - that is because up until then his work has been continuously treated as a visionary activity towards his hearts agenda, and even back then in Yugoslavia (communistic), a serious dream of the creation of a united country of Croats and Serbs. A good example of the newest appreciation of Supilo's political activity is a series of shorter texts published in the magazine Kolo, 1998., nm. 8. In short notes - Supilo has taken the traditional right wing politics and made a radical turn based on two important entries: ideological and pragmatically - ideological.\n\nOn the major playground, Supilo becomes a supporter of a softer Yugoslavian unitarism (because of which he was often demonised in Croatian circles). Supilo's opinion (which was then shared by a large portion of Croatian and Serbian intelligence) had been that Croats and Serbs (to which he later added Slovenes as well) are one three - tribal people - therefore, not three tribes, even less three nations, but one Yugoslavian nation with three names. That, from the modern perspective an unusual idea, was a sign of the late national crystallisation on the Croatian side (in less parts Serbs and Slovenes - not to mention Macedonians and Montenegrins), as well as the territorial bubbles of Serbs and Croats, together with the fact Croatian and Serbian traditional languages have been exquisitely similar and inter - understandable on the conversational level. Practically, this has meant the creation of the Croato-Serb coalition, a creation by which the Serbs are recognised, de facto, as political people inside of Croatia, for the first time in history.\n\nA much stronger change has been signified by the negotiations between the coalition and Supilo with the Hungarian and Italian politicians from Austro-Hungarian monarchy. Post fester, that move can be considered as brave, innovative and - completely missed. Supilo has tried to convert traditional Croatian enemies into Croatian allies within the fight for universal democratisation of monarchy in which - according to his opinion - all nations would be winners. But he has made a mistake in his prognosis: the Italian and Hungarian imperialism was so strongly and deeply rooted into the consciences of the nationalistic elites of those people that only the world wars were able to crumble down those views.\n\nWhen it comes to Serbian nationalism, Supilo did not in that period realistically understand the stubbornness and deflections of Serbian territorial agendas on practically the whole Bosnia and Hercegovina and Croatia. On the consequential elections in 1906., on which the Coalition has won, Supilo was chosen as a representative in the Croatian Parliament and became the leading person of the Coalition. When the Hungarian parliament in spring 1907. voted the Trainline Pragmati, in which the Hungarian language is voted as the official language on all train lines in Croatia, Supilo translated the Croatian disagreement to the Hungarian parliament and led a difficult campaign against the Hungarian ban Pavlo Rauch, and started to propose essential constitutional questions about the position of Croatia. His radical approach brings him into a conflict with the leadership of the Coalition, which wanted a more careful politic, in order not to lose the ability of returning to power.\n\nSupilo was aiming for Croatia, with its own politics, to step up as the head of South Slaven Austro-Hungarian in the fight for their union - while the Serbian part of the Coalition was for appropriating the Croatian politics which he one of the Kingdom of Serbia, which in reality meant turning Croatia into a Serbian political appending.\n\nHis attitude struck a serious reaction in Austrian circles. Even though the deceits against him have subsequently been exposed, Supilo stepped out of the Coalition in order to ease its position; the Coalitions then agreed to a compromised way of solving conflict, which led to the fall of ban Rauch, as well as the fall of the Coalition pact with the unnamed ban Nikola Tomasevic.\n\nThe coalition has since then, and up until the fall of monarchy and creation of the Kingdom of Serbs, Croatian and Slovenes (1918), fallen down on the weapon in hand of the most influential Croatian pragmatic politician of the time, unitarisation proponent Svetozar Pribivecic, whose primary goal was the wait of the fall of the monarchy and definite union with the Serbs. Supilo condemned the opportunistic politic of the Coalition leadership because he believed it was compromising Croatia and was not aiming for Croatia to be equal with Serbia in its fight for unity. In that he was right - the Pribicevic goal wasn’t for Croatia to be as such in the Yugoslavian country.\n\nIdeologically, Supilo became the proponent of a Yugoslav unitarisation. He helf that Croats and Serbs (and later Slovenes) were a single people with three \"tribes\". This idea was shared by many of his contemporaries, based on the late national awakening of Croats, Serbs and Slovenes (not to mention Macedonians, Bosniaks and Montenegrins), the territorial closeness of Serbs and Croats, and the facts that the two peoples have very similar official languages. In practice, it meant the creation of a coalition that virtually recognized Serbs as a political entity in Croatia for the first time in its history. \n\nAn even stronger turn was the negotiation of the coalition and Supilo with the Hungarian and Italian politicians from Austria-Hungary. It was a brave and innovative move, but proved unsuccessful. Supilo played on the temporary conflict between the Vienna court and the Italian irredentists and Hungarian imperialists, the traditional Croatian opponents who claimed their rights to some Croatian lands. He wanted to turn them into Croatian allies in the fight for the general democratization of the monarchy, which he believed would profit all peoples. But he estimated wrongly: the Italian and Hungarian imperialism was so deeply entrenched that it fell only after the world wars. As for Serbian nationalism, Supilo did not realize how stubborn were Serbian territorial claims over large parts of Bosnia and Herzegovina and Croatia. \n\nWhen the Croat-Serb Coalition won the elections of 1906, Supilo became a representative in the Croatian parliament and the leading figure of the Coalition. When the Hungarian parliament in spring 1907 decided that Hungarian would be the official language of the Croatian railroads, Supilo led the Croatian opposition in obstructing actions in the Hungarian parliament. He waged a strong campaign against the ban Levin Rauch, who supported the Hungarians. Supilo also initiated the fundamental constitutional issues on the status of Croatia. His radical attitude brought him in conflict with the Coalition leadership, which promoted a more careful policy with a view of another mandate. \n\nSupilo tried to bring Croatian policy to the forefront of the South Slavs of Austria-Hungary in their fight for unification, while the Serbian part of the Coalition and some of its Croatian members wanted to harmonize Croatian policy with the Kingdom of Serbia, which would bring Croatia to a politically inferior position in relation to Serbia. At the time of the \"High Treason Trial\" (1909), the politically motivated trial against the Serb public officials in the monarchy, initiated by the Viennese court because of the crisis around the annexation of Bosnia and Herzegovina in 1908, Supilo advocated a strong support of Croats to the endangered Serbs to preserve the harmony of Croats and Serbs based on the principles from the Rijeka Resolution and the Zadar Resolution.\n\nHeinrich Friedjung tried to discredit Supilo by forging documents that said Supilo was working on behalf of Serbia. Thomas Masaryk proved they were forgeries at a trial in 1909. Supilo left the Croat-Serb Coalition in 1910.\n\nAfter the assassination of Archduke Franz Ferdinand of Austria, he fled to Florence, Italy where on 22 November 1914 he formed the Yugoslav Committee with Ante Trumbić and Ivan Meštrović to lobby for independence from Austria-Hungary. The organization then moved to London, England in 1915. He resigned from the committee in June 1916, but endorsed the Declaration of Corfu that created the Kingdom of Serbs, Croats and Slovenes.\n\nWhile in exile in London he had a nervous breakdown and was committed to a psychiatric hospital. He died on 25 September 1917 of a stroke, at the age of 47, at the institution.\n\nHis death was immortalized by Krleža in his \"Ballads of Petrica Kerempuh\": \"Sopilovog Frana,/kem serce pregrizla horvacka je rana\" (\"Frano Supilo, whose heart was eaten by the Croatian wound\").\n\nIn Croatian:\n\n"}
{"id": "19526030", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19526030", "title": "Hormone replacement therapy", "text": "Hormone replacement therapy\n\nHormone replacement therapy (HRT), also known as menopausal hormone therapy (MHT) or postmenopausal hormone therapy (PHT, PMHT), is a form of hormone therapy which is used to treat symptoms associated with menopause in women. These symptoms can include hot flashes, vaginal atrophy and dryness, and bone loss, among others, and are caused by diminished levels of sex hormones in the menopausal period. The main hormonal medications used in HRT for menopausal symptoms are estrogens and progestogens. A progestogen is usually used in combination with an estrogen in women with intact uteruses because unopposed estrogen therapy is associated with endometrial hyperplasia and cancer and progestogens prevent these risks. Androgens, like testosterone, are sometimes used in HRT as well. HRT medications are available in various forms and for use by a variety of different routes of administration.\n\nThe 2002 Women's Health Initiative (WHI) of the National Institutes of Health (NIH) found disparate results for all cause mortality with HRT, finding it to be lower when HRT was begun earlier, between age 50 to 59, but higher when begun after age 60. In older patients, there was an increased incidence of breast cancer, heart attacks and stroke, although a reduced incidence of colorectal cancer and bone fracture. Some of the WHI findings were again found in a larger national study done in the United Kingdom, known as the Million Women Study (MWS). As a result of these findings, the number of women taking HRT dropped precipitously. The WHI recommended that women with non-surgical menopause take the lowest feasible dose of HRT for the shortest possible time to minimize associated risks.\n\nThe current indications for use from the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA) include short-term treatment of menopausal symptoms, such as vasomotor hot flashes or vaginal atrophy, and prevention of osteoporosis. In 2012 and 2017, the United States Preventive Task Force (USPSTF) concluded that the harmful effects of combined estrogen and progestin therapy are likely to exceed the chronic disease prevention benefits in most women. A consensus expert opinion published by The Endocrine Society stated that when taken during perimenopause, or the initial years of menopause, HRT carries significantly fewer risks than previously published, and reduces all cause mortality in most patient scenarios. The American Association of Clinical Endocrinologists (AACE) also released a position statement in 2009 that approved of HRT in appropriate clinical scenarios.\n\nHRT is used to treat or prevent menopausal symptoms in postmenopausal, perimenopausal, and surgically menopausal women, including the following:\n\n\nIt is also used for health benefits, such as reduced risk of dementia, colorectal cancer, endometrial cancer, and others. However, this may be counterbalanced by various health risks, like an increased risk of cardiovascular disease and breast cancer.\n\nHRT is often given as a short-term relief (often one or two years, usually less than five) from menopausal symptoms (such as hot flashes, irregular menstruation). Such treatments aren't usually recommended to women who are perimenopausal or for at least 12 months after the last menstrual period. Younger women with premature ovarian failure or surgical menopause may use HRT for many years, until the age that natural menopause would be expected to occur.\n\nThere are several different types of hormonal medications which are used in HRT for menopausal symptoms:\n\n\nTibolone is a unique medication which has the properties of an estrogen, progestogen, and androgen all in one molecule.\n\nThe medications used in menopausal HRT are available in numerous different formulations for use by a variety of different routes of administration:\n\n\nHRT for menopause generally provides low dosages of one or more estrogens, and usually also provides a progestogen. In women with intact uteruses, estrogens are almost always given in combination with progestogens, as long-term unopposed estrogen therapy is associated with a markedly increased risk of endometrial hyperplasia and endometrial cancer. Conversely, in women who have undergone a hysterectomy or who otherwise do not have a uterus, a progestogen is not necessarily required, and an estrogen can be used alone if preferred. There are many combined formulations which include both an estrogen and a progestogen. Examples include the combination of CEEs and MPA (brand name Prempro), as well as the combination of estradiol with one of various progestins such as norethisterone (in Activelle, Novofem, Cliovelle), MPA (in Indivina), levonorgestrel, dienogest, and drospirenone, among others.\n\nDosage is often varied cyclically to more closely mimic the ovarian hormone cycle, with estrogens taken daily and progestogens taken for about two weeks every month or two; a method called \"cyclic HRT\" or \"sequentially combined HRT\" (abbreviated scHRT). An alternate method, a constant dosage with both types of hormones taken daily, is called \"continuous combined HRT\" or ccHRT, and is a more recent innovation. Vaginal estrogen can have more effect on atrophic vaginitis with fewer systemic effects than estrogens delivered by other routes. Sometimes an androgen, generally testosterone, is added to treat diminished libido. It may also treat reduced energy and help reduce osteoporosis after menopause.\n\nBioidentical hormone therapy (BHT) is the use of hormones that are chemically identical to those produced in a woman's body. Proponents of BHT claim that it can offer advantages over non-bioidentical or conventional hormone therapy (CHT). There are two different meanings to BHT as a term and therapy, which has resulted in some confusion. While both deal with the use of bioidentical hormones, one meaning concerns the specific use of certain compounded hormone preparations, usually in conjunction with blood or saliva testing to determine, and adjust, a woman's hormone levels; whereas the other meaning simply refers to the use of bioidentical hormones in general, but most typically as approved pharmaceutical preparations. The practices associated with the first meaning are not widely accepted in clinical medicine. Compounded BHT, including custom-compounded products like BiEst (20% estradiol and 80% estriol) and TriEst (10% estradiol, 10% estrone, and 80% estriol), has not demonstrated any benefits over CHT, and presents risks of uncertain dosing, potency, and possible contamination. In addition, blood or saliva testing is of limited utility due to natural fluctuations in hormone levels, and lack of consensus for ideal dosage in humans. As such, the evidence and scientific literature do not support the use of compounded BHT, with or without hormone-level testing, over CHT.\n\nConversely, the use of approved bioidentical pharmaceutical hormones, namely transdermal or vaginal estradiol and oral or vaginal progesterone, over animal-derived and synthetic hormones, like oral CEEs and oral MPA, \"is\" associated with various health advantages. Such advantages include reduced or no risk of venous thromboembolism, cardiovascular disease, and breast cancer, among others. However, less research has been conducted on bioidentical hormones relative to non-bioidentical oral hormonal medications, and there is a need for more clinical research to fully delineate some of these health advantages. In any case, as of 2012, guidelines from the North American Menopause Society, the Endocrine Society, the International Menopause Society, and the European Menopause and Andropause Society all contain positive statements in regards to the management of menopausal women with a personal or family history of venous thromboembolism with transdermal estradiol and micronized progesterone over other approaches.\n\nInstitutions and organizations such as the FDA have taken public stances on compounded BHT. The FDA has stated that compounded BHT is unsupported by medical evidence, and its administration is considered false and misleading by the agency. The FDA has expressed concern that unfounded claims of compounded hormones having advantages over CHT mislead women and health care professionals. The approved pharmaceutical preparations used in conventional therapy have been researched to quantify these risks and benefits, and are produced by manufacturers with stringent purity and potency standards.\n\nCompounding in the United Kingdom is a regulated activity. The Medicines and Healthcare products Regulatory Agency (MHRA) regulates compounding performed under a Manufacturing Specials license and the General Pharmaceutical Council (GPhC) regulates compounding performed within a pharmacy. All testosterone prescribed in the United Kingdom is bioidentical and its use is supported by the National Health Service (NHS). Marketing authorization exists for male testosterone products. National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) guideline 1.4.8 states: \"consider testosterone supplementation for menopausal women with low sexual desire if HRT alone is not effective\". The footnote adds: \"at the time of publication (November 2015), testosterone did not have a United Kingdom marketing authorisation for this indication in women. Bio-identical progesterone is used in IVF treatment and for pregnant women who are at risk of premature labour.\"\n\n\n\n\nA 2017 pooled analysis of data from five observational cohort studies in Swedish women found a reduction in risk of stroke among women who started hormone replacement therapy within five years of onset of menopause. Demographically, the vast majority of data available is in postmenopausal American women with concurrent pre-existing conditions, and with a mean age of over 60 years.\n\nThe North American Menopause Society (NAMS) 2016 annual meeting mentioned that HRT may have more benefits than risks when it comes to females under the age of 60 years old.\n\nIn 2002 the WHI was published. That study looked at the effects of hormonal replacement therapy in postmenopausal women. Both age groups had a slightly higher incidence of breast cancer, and both heart attack and stroke were increased in older patients, although not in younger participants. In fact, the use of HRT in the United States has actually dropped greatly since 2002. Breast cancer was increased in women treated with estrogen and a progestin, but not with estrogen and progesterone or estrogen alone. Treatment with unopposed estrogen (i.e., an estrogen alone without a progestogen) is contraindicated if the uterus is still present, due to its proliferative effect on the endometrium. The WHI also found a reduced incidence of colorectal cancer when estrogen and a progestogen were used together, and most importantly, a reduced incidence of bone fractures. Ultimately, the study found disparate results for all cause mortality with HRT, finding it to be lower when HRT was begun during ages 50–59, but higher when begun after age 60. Some findings of the WHI were reconfirmed in a larger national study done in the United Kingdom, known as MWS. Coverage of the WHI findings led to a reduction in the number of postmenopausal women on HRT. The authors of the study recommended that women with non-surgical menopause take the lowest feasible dose of HRTHRT, and for the shortest possible time, to minimize risk.\n\nThe data published by the WHI suggested supplemental estrogen increased risk of venous emboli and breast cancer but was protective against osteoporosis and colorectal cancer, while the impact on cardiovascular disease was mixed. These results were later confirmed in trials from the United Kingdom, but not in more recent studies from France and China. Genetic polymorphism appears to be associated with inter-individual variability in metabolic response to HRT in postmenopausal women.\n\nThese recommendations have not held up with further data analysis, however. Subsequent findings released by the WHI showed that all cause mortality was not dramatically different between the groups receiving CEEs, those receiving estrogen and a progestogen, and those not on HRT at all. Specifically, the relative risk for all-cause mortality was 1.04 (confidence interval 0.88–1.22) in the CEEs-alone trial and 1.00 (CI, 0.83–1.19) in the estrogen plus progestogen trial. Further, in analysis pooling data from both trials, postmenopausal HRT was associated with a significant reduction in mortality (RR, 0.70; CI, 0.51–0.96) among women ages 50 to 59. This would represent five fewer deaths per 1,000 women per 5 years of therapy.\n\nHowever, neither the WHI nor the MWS differentiated the results for different types of progestogens used. MPA – the type most commonly used in the United States – was the only one examined by the WHI, which in its analysis and conclusions extrapolated the benefits versus risks of MPA to all progestins. This conclusion has since been challenged by several researchers as unjustified and misleading, resulting in unreasonable, unnecessary avoidance by many women of HRT. In fact, primate research indicates that the side effects of MPA may be worse than those of other progestogens, and some human studies indicate that MPA may be responsible for negating the protective cardiac benefits of estrogen that were found for estrogen-only HRT users. Critics including Bethea note that there are now research papers showing significantly better outcomes in brain, breast, and cardiovascular parameters with estradiol plus progesterone instead of MPA and conclude that further studies are needed to know more precisely what the differences in effects are when other progestins are used versus bioidentical progesterone in HRT, so that women aren't needlessly discouraged from seeking HRT.\n\nA robust Bayesian meta-analysis from 19 randomized clinical trials reported similar data with a RR of mortality of 0.73 (CI, 0.52–0.96) in women younger than age 60. However, HRT had minimal effect among those between 60 and 69 years of age (RR, 1.05; CI, 0.87–1.26) and was associated with a borderline significant increase in mortality in those between 70 and 79 years of age (RR, 1.14; CI, 0.94 –1.37; P for trend < 0.06). Similarly, in the Heart and Estrogen/Progestin Replacement Study (HERS) trial, with participants having a mean age of 66.7 yr, HRT did not reduce in total mortality (RR, 1.08; CI, 0.84 –1.38). A 2003 meta-analysis of 30 randomized trials of HRT in relation to mortality showed that it was associated with a nearly 40% reduction in mortality in trials in which participants had a mean age of less than 60 yr or were within 10 yr of menopause onset but was unrelated to mortality in the other trials. The findings in the younger age groups were similar to those in the observational Nurses' Health Study (RR for mortality, 0.63; CI, 0.56 – 0.70).\n\nThe beneficial potential of HRT was bolstered in a consensus expert opinion published by The Endocrine Society, which stated that when taken during perimenopause or the initial years of menopause, hormonal therapy carries significantly fewer risks than previously published and reduces all cause mortality in most patient scenarios. The AACE released a position statement in 2009 that approved of HRT in the appropriate clinical scenario.\n\nProprietary mixtures of progestins and CEEs are a commonly prescribed form of HRT. As the most common and longest-prescribed type of estrogen used in HRT, most studies of HRT involve CEEs. More recently developed forms of drug delivery include suppositories, subdermal implants, skin patches and gels. They have more local effect, lower doses, fewer side effects, and result in constant rather than cyclical serum hormone levels.\n\nMenopause is the permanent cessation of menstruation resulting from loss of ovarian follicular activity. Menopause can be divided into early and late transition periods, also known as perimenopause and postmenopause. Each stage is marked by changes in hormonal patterns, which can induce menopausal symptoms. It is possible to induce menopause prematurely by surgically removing the ovary or ovaries (oophorectomy). This is often done as a consequence of ovarian failure, such as ovarian or uterine cancers. The most common side effects of the menopausal transition are: lack of sexual desire or libido, lack of sexual arousal, and vaginal dryness. The modification of women’s physiology can lead to changes in her sexual response, the development of sexual dysfunctions, and changes in her levels of sexual desire.\n\nIt is commonly perceived that once women near the end of their reproductive years and enter menopause that this equates to the end of her sexual life. However, especially since women today are living one third or more of their lives in a postmenopausal state, maintaining, if not improving, their quality of life, of which their sexuality can be a key determinant, is of importance. A recent study of sexual activities among women aged 40–69 revealed that 75% of women are sexually active at this age; this indicates that the sexual health and satisfaction of menopausal women are an aspect of sexual health and quality of life that is worthy of attention by health care professionals.\n\nA major complaint among postmenopausal women is decreased libido, and many may seek medical consultation for this. Several hormonal changes take place during the menopausal period, including a decrease in estrogen levels and an increase in follicle-stimulating hormone. For most women, the majority of change occurs during the late perimenopausal and postmenopausal stages. Decrease in other hormones such as the sex hormone-binding globulim (SHBG) and inhibin (A and B) also take place in the postmenopausal period. Testosterone, a hormone more commonly associated with males, is also present in women. It peaks at age 30, but declines with age, so there is little variation across the lifetime and during the menopausal transition. However, in surgically induced menopause, instead of the levels of estrogens and testosterone slowly declining over time, they decline very sharply, resulting in more severe symptoms.\n\nIn menopausal women, sexual functioning can impact several dimensions of a woman’s life, including her physical, psychological, and mental well-being. During the onset of menopause, sexuality can be a critical issue in determining whether one begins to experience changes in their sexual response cycle. Both age — and menopause-related events can affect the integrity of a woman’s biological systems involved in the sexual response cycle, which include hormone environment, neuro-muscular substrates, and vascular supplies. Therefore, it can be appropriate to make use of HRT, especially in women with low or declining quality of life due to sexual difficulties.\n\nCurrent research that has examined the impact of menopause on women’s self-reported sexual satisfaction indicates that 50.3% of women experience some sexual disturbance in one of five domains, and 33.7% experience disturbances in two of the domains. Of these were desire, orgasm, lubrication, and arousal disturbances. With regards to arousal, they found a significant negative association between age and arousal, in that as women aged they were more likely to report lower arousal scores. In the desire and orgasm domains, 38% of women reported a disturbances in their desire, and 17% reported a disturbance in their orgasm capabilities; of the 17%, 14% were premenopausal, 15.2% were postmenopausal and taking a form of HRT, and 22% were postmenopausal not on a form of HRT. Eight percent of women reported disturbances lubricating during sexual activity; 14.3% in the premenopausal group, 30% in the postmenopausal group not using a HRT, and 11.7% among those postmenopausal women using HRT. Lastly, 21% of women reported pain as a disturbance in their sexual satisfaction — the premenopausal group at 14.3%, the postmenopausal women using HRT at 13.3% and the group with the highest rates, similarly to the other results, was the postmenopausal women not taking HRT at 34%. This study concluded that there was a significant decline in sexual function related to menopause in the pain and lubrication domains.\n\nThe maintenance and improvement of quality of life during the menopausal period is at the core of estrogen and progestogen-based HRT. Both HRT and estrogen replacement therapy (ERT) have been shown to enhance sexual desire in a significant percent of women; however, as with all pharmacological treatments, not all women have been responsive, especially those with preexisting sexual difficulties. ERT restores vaginal cells, pH levels, and blood flow to the vagina, all of which deterioration are associated with the onset of menopause. Dyspareunia (due to vaginal dryness) appears to be the most responsive component of menopausal women’s sexuality to ERT. It also has been shown to have positive effects on the urinary tract and atrophy and may initially improve libido or sexual sensitivity. Other improvements in areas such as sexual desire, arousal, fantasies, and frequency of coitus and orgasm have also been noted. However, the effectiveness of ERT has been shown to decline in some women after long-term use. A number of studies have found that the combined effects of estrogen/androgen replacement therapy can increase a woman’s motivational aspects of sexual behaviour over and above what can be achieved with estrogen therapy alone. Findings on a relatively new form of HRT called tibolone — a synthetic steroid with estrogenic, androgenic, and progestogenic properties — suggest that it has the ability to improve mood, libido, and somatic symptoms of surgically menopausal women to a greater degree than ERT. In various placebo-controlled studies, improvements in vasomotor symptoms, emotional reactions, sleep disturbances, somatic symptoms, and sexual desire have been observed. However, while this is and has been available in Europe for almost two decades, this has not been approved for use in North America at this point.\n\nThe goal of HRT is to mitigate discomfort caused by diminished circulating estradiol and progesterone in menopause. In those with premature or surgically induced menopause, a combination HRT is often recommended, as it may also prolong life and may decrease a woman's chances of developing endometrial cancers associated with unopposed estrogen therapy, as well by decreasing the incidence of dementia. The main hormones involved are estrogens and progestogens. Some recent therapies include the use of androgens as well.\n\nData from numerous studies have consistently found that HRT leads to improvements in aspects of postmenopausal sexual dysfunction. Sexuality is a critical aspect of quality of life for the large majority of menopausal women; therefore, any features of the menopausal transition that can negatively affect a woman’s sexuality have the ability to significantly alter her quality of life. The most prevalent of female sexual dysfunctions linked to menopause include lack of desire and low libido, both of which can be explained by changes in hormonal physiology.\n\nImprovements in sexual pain, vaginal lubrication and orgasm are found to be statistically different from those using HRT. Estrogens have positive effects of mood, sexual function, target end organs, and cognitive function.\n\nComparisons between orally administered pill and transdermal patch suggests that when estrogens are taken orally the risks of thrombophlebitis and pulmonary embolism are increased, an effect which is not seen with topical administration. Transdermal and transvaginal administration are not subject to first pass metabolism, and so lack the anabolic effects that oral therapy has on hepatic synthesis of Vitamin K dependent clotting factors. This effect refers only to patches for HRT, which contain estradiol, not those used in oral contraceptive therapy, which contain ethinylestradiol. The latter is associated with an increased incidence of venous clot. The WHI also showed an increased incidence arterial disease, namely stroke, in patients who began HRT after the age of 65, although this effect was not significantly present in those who began therapy during their fifth decade.\n\nThe impact of HRT on cardiovascular morbidity is a subject of much controversy in the medical literature. The reduced risk of cardiovascular diseases associated with HRT, reported in observational studies, has not been subsequently confirmed in randomized clinical trials. The increased risk of cardiovascular disease in the WHI was not statistically significant, and only found in the oldest women, and those who started HRT late after menopause began. The increase in risks of coronary heart disease in the treatment arm of the study varied according to age and years since onset of menopause. Women aged 50 to 59 using HRT showed a trend towards lower risk of coronary heart disease, as did women who were within five years of the onset of menopause.\n\nA Cochrane review came to the result that in women starting HRT less than 10 years after menopause have a lower mortality and lower rate of coronary heart disease compared to placebo or no treatment, without any strong evidence of an effect on the risk of stroke. Those starting therapy more than 10 years after menopause have little effect on mortality and coronary heart disease, but have an increased risk of stroke. Overall, however, taking the increased risk of venous thromboembolism into account, it came to the conclusion that has HRT has little if any benefit for primary or secondary prevention of cardiovascular disease.\n\nThe adverse cardiovascular outcomes may only apply to oral dosing with CEEs and progestins in oral systemic therapy, while transdermal estradiol and estriol may not produce the same risks, due to the absence of anabolic effects of hepatic vitamin K dependent clotting factors.\n\nOn a molecular level, HRT at the time of menopause has effects on the lipid profile. Specifically, HDL decreases, while LDL, triglycerides and lipoprotein a increase. Supplemental estrogen improves the lipid profile by reversing each of these effects. Beyond this, it improves cardiac contractility, coronary artery blood flow, metabolism of carbohydrates, and decreases platelet aggregation and plaque formation. At the molecular level HRT may promote reverse cholesterol transport (RCT) via the induction of cholesterol ABC transporters.\n\nWhile combined estrogen–progestogen supplementation has been linked to an increased incidence of endometrial cancer, the specific subtype is usually stage I, or \"in situ\", and has extremely low morbidity and mortality, and studies in American women have shown the tumor to not have propensity for growth into the myometrium or parametrial soft tissues. When seen in the context of all cause mortality, women who take estrogen and develop endometrial cancer have higher survival rates than women who do not take hormonal therapy at all, which was due to the preventive effect of HRT on hip fractures.\n\nUnopposed estrogen can also result in endometrial hyperplasia, a precursor to endometrial cancer. The extensive use of high-dose estrogens for birth control in the 1970s is thought to have resulted in a significant increase in the incidence of this type of cancer.\n\nHRT is effective at reversing the effects of aging on muscle.\n\nAccording to a 2007 presentation at an American Academy of Neurology meeting, HRT taken soon after menopause may help protect against dementia, but it raises the risk of mental decline in women who do not take HRT until they are older. Dementia risk was 1% in women who started HRT early, and 1.7% in women who didn't, (i.e. women who didn't take HRT seem to have had — on average — a 70% higher relative risk of dementia than women who began HRT around the time of the beginning of menopause). This suggests that there may be a \"critical period\" during which time taking HRT may have benefits, but if HRT is initiated after that period, it will not have such benefits and may cause harm. This is consistent with research that HRT improves executive and attention processes in postmenopausal women. It is also supported by research upon monkeys that were given ovariectomies to imitate the effect of menopause and then estrogen therapies. This showed replacement treated compared to nontreated monkeys had long term improved prefrontal cortex executive abilities on the Wisconsin Card Sorting Test.\n\nThe relative risk (RR) of breast cancer varies from 1.24 in the WHI study to 1.66 in the MWS, with results differing according to interval between menopause and HRT and methods of HRT. The WHI preliminary results in 2004 found a non-significant trend in the estrogen-alone clinical trial towards a reduced risk of breast cancer and a 2006 update concluded that use of estrogen-only HRT for 7 years does not increase the risk of breast cancer in postmenopausal women who have had a hysterectomy. The results of the WHI estrogen-alone trial suggest that the progestin used in the WHI estrogen-plus-progestin trial increased the risk for breast cancer above that associated with estrogen alone. HRT has been more strongly associated with risk of breast cancer in women with low or normal body mass index (BMI) of less than 25, but no association has been observed in women with a high body mass index.\n\nResearch has found that increased breast cancer risk applies only to those women who take progestins, but not to those taking bioidentical progesterone itself, nor to hysterectomized women who take estrogen alone. It has been suggested by some that the absence of effect in these studies could be due to selective prescription to overweight women, or to the very low progesterone serum levels after oral administration leading to a strong tumor inactivation rate.\n\nFor women who previously have had breast cancer, it is recommended to first consider other options for menopausal effects, such as bisphosphonates or selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) for osteoporosis, cholesterol-lowering agents and aspirin for cardiovascular disease, and vaginal estrogen for local symptoms. Observational studies of systemic HRT after breast cancer are generally reassuring. If HRT is necessary after breast cancer, estrogen-only therapy or estrogen therapy with a progestogen may be safer options than combined systemic therapy.\n\nEstrogen prevents the activity of osteoclasts, and improves bone mineral density. Hip fracture is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in older females, and usually does not occur in the setting of osteoporosis. Estrogen is the only medical therapy that has been shown to prevent hip fractures in women that are not osteoporotic, with efficacy superior to bisphosphonates or calcium and vitamin D supplementation.\n\nA 2015 meta-analysis found that HRT was associated with an increased risk of ovarian cancer. The authors concluded that if this association is causal, women using HRT have about one additional case of ovarian cancer per 1,000 users.\n\nHRT appears to slow down the biological/epigenetic aging rate of buccal cells but not that of blood cells. Conversely, the unmitigated loss of hormones resulting from menopause accelerates the biological aging rate of blood according to a molecular biomarker of aging known as epigenetic clock.\n\nThe extraction of CEEs from the urine of pregnant mares led to the marketing in 1942 of Premarin, one of the earlier forms of estrogen to be introduced. From that time until the mid-1970s, estrogen was administered without a supplemental progestogen. Studies in the 1975 and thereafter demonstrated that in the absence of a progestogen, unopposed estrogen therapy with Premarin resulted in an 8-fold increased risk of endometrial cancer. After this, sales of Premarin plummeted for a few years. However, it was shown by the early 1980s that the addition of a progestogen to estrogen therapy could mitigate the risk of endometrial hyperplasia and cancer in women with intact uteruses. This led to the development of combined estrogen–progestogen therapy who had not undergone hysterectomy, most typically with a combination of Premarin and Provera (CEEs and MPA, respectively), and in the birth of the modern concept of what is referred to as \"hormone replacement therapy\".\n\nThe WHI trials were conducted between 1991 and 2004. However, the arm of the WHI receiving combined estrogen and progestin therapy was closed prematurely in 2002 by its Data Monitoring Committee (DMC) due to perceived health risks, although the trial arm was stopped only a full year after the data suggesting increased risk became manifest. In 2004, the arm of the WHI in which post-hysterectomy patients were being treated with estrogen alone was also closed by the DMC.\n\nClinical medical practice changed based upon two parallel Women's Health Initiative (WHI) studies of HRT. Prior studies were smaller, and many were of women who electively took hormonal therapy. The WHI studies were the first large, double-blind, placebo-controlled clinical trials of HRT in healthy women.\n\nOne portion of the parallel studies followed over 16,000 women for an average of 5.2 years, half of whom took placebo, while the other half took a combination of CEEs and MPA (Prempro).\n\nThis WHI estrogen-plus-progestin trial was stopped prematurely in 2002 because preliminary results suggested risks of combined CEEs and progestins exceeded their benefits. The first report on the halted WHI estrogen-plus-progestin study came out in July 2002.\n\nThe study reported statistically significant increases in rates of breast cancer, coronary heart disease, strokes and pulmonary emboli. The study also found statistically significant decreases in rates of hip fracture and colorectal cancer. \"A year after the study was stopped in 2002, an article was published indicating that estrogen plus progestin also increases the risks of dementia.\" The conclusion of the study was that the HRT combination presented risks that outweighed its measured benefits. The results were almost universally reported as risks and problems associated with HRT in general, rather than with Prempro, the specific proprietary combination of CEEs and MPA studied.\n\nAfter the increased clotting found in the first WHI results was reported in 2002, the number of Prempro prescriptions filled reduced by almost half. Following the WHI results, a large percentage of HRT users opted out of them, which was quickly followed by a sharp drop in breast cancer rates. The decrease in breast cancer rates has continued in subsequent years. An unknown number of women started taking alternatives to Prempro, such as compounded bioidentical hormones, though researchers have asserted that compounded hormones are not significantly different from conventional hormone therapy.\n\nThe other portion of the parallel studies featured women who were post hysterectomy so who consequently did not need to take a progestogen when using estrogen. They were given either placebo or CEEs alone. This group did not show the risks demonstrated in the combination hormone study, and the estrogen-only study was not halted in 2002. However, in February 2004 it, too, was halted. While there was a 23% decreased incidence of breast cancer in the estrogen-only study participants, risks of stroke and pulmonary embolism were increased slightly, predominantly in patients who began HRT over the age of 60.\n\nThe WHI trial was limited by low adherence, high attrition, inadequate power to detect risks for some outcomes, and evaluation of few regimens. The double blinding limited validity of study results due to its effects on patient exclusion criteria. Patients who were experiencing symptoms of the menopausal transition were excluded from the study, meaning that younger women who had only recently experienced menopause were not significantly represented. As a result, while the average age of menopause is age 51, study participants were on average 62 years of age. Demographically, the vast majority were Caucasian, and tended to be slightly overweight and former smokers.\n\nWyeth, now a subsidiary of Pfizer, was a pharmaceutical company that marketed the HRT products Premarin (CEEs) and Prempro (CEEs + MPA). In 2009, litigation involving Wyeth resulted in the release of 1,500 documents that revealed practices concerning its promotion of these medications. The documents showed that Wyeth commissioned dozens of ghostwritten reviews and commentaries that were published in medical journals in order to promote unproven benefits of its HRT products, downplay their harms and risks, and cast competing therapies in a negative light. Starting in the mid-1990s and continuing for over a decade, Wyeth pursued an aggressive \"publication plan\" strategy to promote its HRT products through the use of ghostwritten publications. It worked mainly with DesignWrite, a medical writing firm. Between 1998 and 2005, Wyeth had 26 papers promoting its HRT products published in scientific journals.\n\nThese favorable publications emphasized the benefits and downplayed the risks of its HRT products, especially the \"misconception\" of the association of its products with breast cancer. The publications defended unsupported cardiovascular \"benefits\" of its products, downplayed risks such as breast cancer, and promoted off-label and unproven uses like prevention of dementia, Parkinson's disease, vision problems, and wrinkles. In addition, Wyeth emphasized negative messages against the SERM raloxifene for osteoporosis, instructed writers to stress the fact that \"alternative therapies have increased in usage since the WHI even though there is little evidence that they are effective or safe...\", called into question the quality and therapeutic equivalence of approved generic CEE products, and made efforts to spread the notion that the unique risks of CEEs and MPA were a class effect of all forms of menopausal HRT: \"Overall, these data indicate that the benefit/risk analysis that was reported in the Women's Health Initiative can be generalized to all postmenopausal hormone replacement therapy products.\"\n\nIn any case, following the publication of the WHI data in 2002, the stock prices for the pharmaceutical industry plummeted, and huge numbers of women stopped using HRT. The stocks of Wyeth, which supplied the Premarin and Prempro that were used in the WHI trials, decreased by more than 50%, and never fully recovered. After the publication of the WHI data, Wyeth and other pharmaceutical companies commissioned ghostwritten publications that downplayed the findings of the trials. These articles promoted themes such as the following: \"the WHI was flawed; the WHI was a controversial trial; the population studied in the WHI was inappropriate or was not representative of the general population of menopausal women; results of clinical trials should not guide treatment for individuals; observational studies are as good as or better than randomized clinical trials; animal studies can guide clinical decision-making; the risks associated with hormone therapy have been exaggerated; the benefits of hormone therapy have been or will be proven, and the recent studies are an aberration.\" Similar findings were observed in a 2010 analysis of 114 editorials, reviews, guidelines, and letters by five industry-paid authors. These publications promoted positive themes and challenged and criticized unfavorable trials such as the WHI and MWS. In 2009, Wyeth was acquired by Pfizer in a deal valued at US$68 billion. Pfizer, a company that produces Provera and Depo-Provera (MPA) and has also engaged in medical ghostwriting, continues to market Premarin and Prempro, which remain best-selling medications.\n\nAccording to Fugh-Berman (2010), \"Today, despite definitive scientific data to the contrary, many gynecologists still believe that the benefits of [HRT] outweigh the risks in asymptomatic women. This non-evidence–based perception may be the result of decades of carefully orchestrated corporate influence on medical literature.\" Indeed, as many as 50% of physicians have expressed skepticism to the results of large trials like the WHI and HERS. The positive perceptions of many physicians of HRT in spite of large trials showing risks that potentially outweigh any benefits may be due to the efforts of pharmaceutical companies like Wyeth.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7316", "title": "Hypothetical types of biochemistry", "text": "Hypothetical types of biochemistry\n\nHypothetical types of biochemistry are forms of biochemistry speculated to be scientifically viable but not proven to exist at this time. The kinds of living organisms currently known on Earth all use carbon compounds for basic structural and metabolic functions, water as a solvent, and DNA or RNA to define and control their form. If life exists on other planets or moons, it may be chemically similar; it is also possible that there are organisms with quite different chemistries—for instance, involving other classes of carbon compounds, compounds of another element, or another solvent in place of water.\n\nThe possibility of life-forms being based on \"alternative\" biochemistries is the topic of an ongoing scientific discussion, informed by what is known about extraterrestrial environments and about the chemical behaviour of various elements and compounds. It is also a common subject in science fiction.\n\nThe element silicon has been much discussed as a hypothetical alternative to carbon. Silicon is in the same group as carbon on the periodic table and, like carbon, it is tetravalent, although the silicon analogs of organic compounds are generally less stable. Hypothetical alternatives to water include ammonia, which, like water, is a polar molecule, and cosmically abundant; and non-polar hydrocarbon solvents such as methane and ethane, which are known to exist in liquid form on the surface of Titan.\n\nA shadow biosphere is a hypothetical microbial biosphere of Earth that uses radically different biochemical and molecular processes than currently known life. Although life on Earth is relatively well-studied, the shadow biosphere may still remain unnoticed because the exploration of the microbial world targets primarily the biochemistry of the macro-organisms.\n\nPerhaps the least unusual alternative biochemistry would be one with differing chirality of its biomolecules. In known Earth-based life, amino acids are almost universally of the form and sugars are of the form. Molecules of opposite chirality have identical chemical properties to their mirrored forms, so life that used amino acids or sugars may be possible; molecules of such a chirality, however, would be incompatible with organisms using the opposing chirality molecules. Amino acids whose chirality is opposite to the norm are found on Earth, and these substances are generally thought to result from decay of organisms of normal chirality. However, physicist Paul Davies speculates that some of them might be products of \"anti-chiral\" life.\n\nIt is questionable, however, whether such a biochemistry would be truly alien. Although it would certainly be an alternative stereochemistry, molecules that are overwhelmingly found in one enantiomer throughout the vast majority of organisms can nonetheless often be found in another enantiomer in different (often basal) organisms such as in comparisons between members of Archaea and other domains, making it an open topic whether an alternative stereochemistry is truly novel.\n\nOn Earth, all known living things have a carbon-based structure and system. Scientists have speculated about the pros and cons of using atoms other than carbon to form the molecular structures necessary for life, but no one has proposed a theory employing such atoms to form all the necessary structures. However, as Carl Sagan argued, it is very difficult to be certain whether a statement that applies to all life on Earth will turn out to apply to all life throughout the universe. Sagan used the term \"carbon chauvinism\" for such an assumption. He regarded silicon and germanium as conceivable alternatives to carbon; but, on the other hand, he noted that carbon does seem more chemically versatile and is more abundant in the cosmos.\n\nThe silicon atom has been much discussed as the basis for an alternative biochemical system, because silicon has many chemical properties similar to those of carbon and is in the same group of the periodic table, the carbon group. Like carbon, silicon can create molecules that are sufficiently large to carry biological information.\n\nHowever, silicon has several drawbacks as an alternative to carbon. Silicon, unlike carbon, lacks the ability to form chemical bonds with diverse types of atoms as is necessary for the chemical versatility required for metabolism. Elements creating organic functional groups with carbon include hydrogen, oxygen, nitrogen, phosphorus, sulfur, and metals such as iron, magnesium, and zinc. Silicon, on the other hand, interacts with very few other types of atoms. Moreover, where it does interact with other atoms, silicon creates molecules that have been described as \"monotonous compared with the combinatorial universe of organic macromolecules\". This is because silicon atoms are much bigger, having a larger mass and atomic radius, and so have difficulty forming double bonds (the double bonded carbon is part of the carbonyl group, a fundamental motif of bio-organic chemistry).\n\nSilanes, which are chemical compounds of hydrogen and silicon that are analogous to the alkane hydrocarbons, are highly reactive with water, and long-chain silanes spontaneously decompose. Molecules incorporating polymers of alternating silicon and oxygen atoms instead of direct bonds between silicon, known collectively as silicones, are much more stable. It has been suggested that silicone-based chemicals would be more stable than equivalent hydrocarbons in a sulfuric-acid-rich environment, as is found in some extraterrestrial locations.\n\nOf the varieties of molecules identified in the interstellar medium , 84 are based on carbon while only eight are based on silicon. Moreover, of those eight compounds, four also include carbon within them. The cosmic abundance of carbon to silicon is roughly 10 to 1. This may suggest a greater variety of complex carbon compounds throughout the cosmos, providing less of a foundation on which to build silicon-based biologies, at least under the conditions prevalent on the surface of planets. Also, even though Earth and other terrestrial planets are exceptionally silicon-rich and carbon-poor (the relative abundance of silicon to carbon in Earth's crust is roughly 925:1), terrestrial life is carbon-based. The fact that carbon is used instead of silicon may be evidence that silicon is poorly suited for biochemistry on Earth-like planets. Reasons for which may be that silicon is less versatile than carbon in forming compounds, that the compounds formed by silicon are unstable, and that it blocks the flow of heat.\n\nEven so, biogenic silica is used by some Earth life, such as the silicate skeletal structure of diatoms. According to the clay hypothesis of A. G. Cairns-Smith, silicate minerals in water played a crucial role in abiogenesis: they replicated their crystal structures, interacted with carbon compounds, and were the precursors of carbon-based life.\n\nAlthough not observed in nature, carbon–silicon bonds have been added to biochemistry by using directed evolution (artificial selection). A heme containing cytochrome \"c\" protein from \"Rhodothermus marinus\" has been engineered using directed evolution to catalyze the formation of new carbon–silicon bonds between hydrosilanes and diazo compounds.\n\nSilicon compounds may possibly be biologically useful under temperatures or pressures different from the surface of a terrestrial planet, either in conjunction with or in a role less directly analogous to carbon. Polysilanols, the silicon compounds corresponding to sugars, are soluble in liquid nitrogen, suggesting that they could play a role in very low temperature biochemistry.\n\nIn cinematic and literary science fiction, at a moment when man-made machines cross from nonliving to living, it is often posited, this new form would be the first example of non-carbon-based life. Since the advent of the microprocessor in the late 1960s, these machines are often classed as computers (or computer-guided robots) and filed under \"silicon-based life\", even though the silicon backing matrix of these processors is not nearly as fundamental to their operation as carbon is for \"wet life\".\n\n\nArsenic, which is chemically similar to phosphorus, while poisonous for most life forms on Earth, is incorporated into the biochemistry of some organisms. Some marine algae incorporate arsenic into complex organic molecules such as arsenosugars and arsenobetaines. Fungi and bacteria can produce volatile methylated arsenic compounds. Arsenate reduction and arsenite oxidation have been observed in microbes (\"Chrysiogenes arsenatis\"). Additionally, some prokaryotes can use arsenate as a terminal electron acceptor during anaerobic growth and some can utilize arsenite as an electron donor to generate energy.\n\nIt has been speculated that the earliest life forms on Earth may have used arsenic in place of phosphorus in the structure of their DNA. A common objection to this scenario is that arsenate esters are so much less stable to hydrolysis than corresponding phosphate esters that arsenic is poorly suited for this function.\n\nThe authors of a 2010 geomicrobiology study, supported in part by NASA, have postulated that a bacterium, named GFAJ-1, collected in the sediments of Mono Lake in eastern California, can employ such 'arsenic DNA' when cultured without phosphorus. They proposed that the bacterium may employ high levels of poly-β-hydroxybutyrate or other means to reduce the effective concentration of water and stabilize its arsenate esters. This claim was heavily criticized almost immediately after publication for the perceived lack of appropriate controls. Science writer Carl Zimmer contacted several scientists for an assessment: \"I reached out to a dozen experts ... Almost unanimously, they think the NASA scientists have failed to make their case\".\nOther authors were unable to reproduce their results and showed that the study had issues with phosphate contamination, suggesting that the low amounts present could sustain extremophile lifeforms.\nAlternatively, it was suggested that GFAJ-1 cells grow by recycling phosphate from degraded ribosomes, rather than by replacing it with arsenate.\n\nIn addition to carbon compounds, all currently known terrestrial life also requires water as a solvent. This has led to discussions about whether water is the only liquid capable of filling that role. The idea that an extraterrestrial life-form might be based on a solvent other than water has been taken seriously in recent scientific literature by the biochemist Steven Benner, and by the astrobiological committee chaired by John A. Baross. Solvents discussed by the Baross committee include ammonia, sulfuric acid, formamide, hydrocarbons,\nand (at temperatures much lower than Earth's) liquid nitrogen, or hydrogen in the form of a supercritical fluid.\n\nCarl Sagan once described himself as both a carbon chauvinist and a water chauvinist; however on another occasion he said he was a carbon chauvinist but \"not that much of a water chauvinist\". \nHe speculated on hydrocarbons, hydrofluoric acid, and ammonia as possible alternatives to water.\n\nSome of the properties of water that are important for life processes include: \n\n\nWater as a compound is cosmically abundant, although much of it is in the form of vapour or ice. Subsurface liquid water is considered likely or possible on several of the outer moons: Enceladus (where geysers have been observed), Europa, Titan, and Ganymede. Earth and Titan are the only worlds currently known to have stable bodies of liquid on their surfaces.\n\nNot all properties of water are necessarily advantageous for life, however. For instance, water ice has a high albedo, meaning that it reflects a significant quantity of light and heat from the Sun. During ice ages, as reflective ice builds up over the surface of the water, the effects of global cooling are increased.\n\nThere are some properties that make certain compounds and elements much more favorable than others as solvents in a successful biosphere. The solvent must be able to exist in liquid equilibrium over a range of temperatures the planetary object would normally encounter. Because boiling points vary with the pressure, the question tends not to be \"does\" the prospective solvent remain liquid, but \"at what pressure\". For example, hydrogen cyanide has a narrow liquid phase temperature range at 1 atmosphere, but in an atmosphere with the pressure of Venus, with of pressure, it can indeed exist in liquid form over a wide temperature range.\n\nThe ammonia molecule (NH), like the water molecule, is abundant in the universe, being a compound of hydrogen (the simplest and most common element) with another very common element, nitrogen. The possible role of liquid ammonia as an alternative solvent for life is an idea that goes back at least to 1954, when J.B.S. Haldane raised the topic at a symposium about life's origin.\n\nNumerous chemical reactions are possible in an ammonia solution, and liquid ammonia has chemical similarities with water. Ammonia can dissolve most organic molecules at least as well as water does and, in addition, it is capable of dissolving many elemental metals. Haldane made the point that various common water-related organic compounds have ammonia-related analogs; for instance the ammonia-related amine group (-NH) is analogous to the water-related hydroxyl group (-OH).\n\nAmmonia, like water, can either accept or donate an H ion. When ammonia accepts an H, it forms the ammonium cation (NH), analogous to hydronium (HO). When it donates an H ion, it forms the amide anion (NH), analogous to the hydroxide anion (OH). Compared to water, however, ammonia is more inclined to accept an H ion, and less inclined to donate one; it is a stronger nucleophile. Ammonia added to water functions as Arrhenius base: it increases the concentration of the anion hydroxide. Conversely, using a solvent system definition of acidity and basicity, water added to liquid ammonia functions as an acid, because it increases the concentration of the cation ammonium. The carbonyl group (C=O), which is much used in terrestrial biochemistry, would not be stable in ammonia solution, but the analogous imine group (C=NH) could be used instead.\n\nHowever, ammonia has some problems as a basis for life. The hydrogen bonds between ammonia molecules are weaker than those in water, causing ammonia's heat of vaporization to be half that of water, its surface tension to be a third, and reducing its ability to concentrate non-polar molecules through a hydrophobic effect. Gerald Feinberg and Robert Shapiro have questioned whether ammonia could hold prebiotic molecules together well enough to allow the emergence of a self-reproducing system. Ammonia is also flammable in oxygen, and could not exist sustainably in an environment suitable for aerobic metabolism.\nA biosphere based on ammonia would likely exist at temperatures or air pressures that are extremely unusual in relation to life on Earth. Life on Earth usually exists within the melting point and boiling point of water at normal pressure, between 0 °C (273 K) and 100 °C (373 K); at normal pressure ammonia's melting and boiling points are between −78 °C (195 K) and −33 °C (240 K). Chemical reactions generally proceed more slowly at a lower temperature. Therefore, ammonia-based life, if it exists, might metabolize more slowly and evolve more slowly than life on Earth. On the other hand, lower temperatures could also enable living systems to use chemical species that would be too unstable at Earth temperatures to be useful.\n\nAmmonia could be a liquid at Earth-like temperatures, but at much higher pressures; for example, at 60 atm, ammonia melts at −77 °C (196 K) and boils at 98 °C (371 K).\n\nAmmonia and ammonia–water mixtures remain liquid at temperatures far below the freezing point of pure water, so such biochemistries might be well suited to planets and moons orbiting outside the water-based habitability zone. Such conditions could exist, for example, under the surface of Saturn's largest moon Titan.\n\nMethane (CH) is a simple hydrocarbon: that is, a compound of two of the most common elements in the cosmos, hydrogen and carbon. It has a cosmic abundance comparable with ammonia. Hydrocarbons could act as a solvent over a wide range of temperatures, but would lack polarity. Isaac Asimov, the biochemist and science fiction writer, suggested in 1981 that poly-lipids could form a substitute for proteins in a non-polar solvent such as methane. Lakes composed of a mixture of hydrocarbons, including methane and ethane, have been detected on the surface of Titan by the \"Cassini\" spacecraft.\n\nThere is debate about the effectiveness of methane and other hydrocarbons as a solvent for life compared to water or ammonia. Water is a stronger solvent than the hydrocarbons, enabling easier transport of substances in a cell. However, water is also more chemically reactive, and can break down large organic molecules through hydrolysis. A life-form whose solvent was a hydrocarbon would not face the threat of its biomolecules being destroyed in this way. Also, the water molecule's tendency to form strong hydrogen bonds can interfere with internal hydrogen bonding in complex organic molecules. Life with a hydrocarbon solvent could make more use of hydrogen bonds within its biomolecules. Moreover, the strength of hydrogen bonds within biomolecules would be appropriate to a low-temperature biochemistry.\n\nAstrobiologist Chris McKay has argued, on thermodynamic grounds, that if life does exist on Titan's surface, using hydrocarbons as a solvent, it is likely also to use the more complex hydrocarbons as an energy source by reacting them with hydrogen, reducing ethane and acetylene to methane. Possible evidence for this form of life on Titan was identified in 2010 by Darrell Strobel of Johns Hopkins University; a greater abundance of molecular hydrogen in the upper atmospheric layers of Titan compared to the lower layers, arguing for a downward diffusion at a rate of roughly 10 molecules per second and disappearance of hydrogen near Titan's surface. As Strobel noted, his findings were in line with the effects Chris McKay had predicted if methanogenic life-forms were present. The same year, another study showed low levels of acetylene on Titan's surface, which were interpreted by Chris McKay as consistent with the hypothesis of organisms reducing acetylene to methane. While restating the biological hypothesis, McKay cautioned that other explanations for the hydrogen and acetylene findings are to be considered more likely: the possibilities of yet unidentified physical or chemical processes (e.g. a non-living surface catalyst enabling acetylene to react with hydrogen), or flaws in the current models of material flow. He noted that even a non-biological catalyst effective at 95 K would in itself be a startling discovery.\n\nA hypothetical cell membrane termed an \"azotosome\" capable of functioning in liquid methane in Titan conditions was computer-modeled in a paper published in February 2015. Composed of acrylonitrile, a small molecule containing carbon, hydrogen, and nitrogen, it is predicted to have stability and flexibility in liquid methane comparable to that of a phospholipid bilayer (the type of cell membrane possessed by all life on Earth) in liquid water. An analysis of data obtained using the Atacama Large Millimeter / submillimeter Array (ALMA), completed in 2017, confirmed substantial amounts of acrylonitrile in Titan's atmosphere.\n\nHydrogen fluoride (HF), like water, is a polar molecule, and due to its polarity it can dissolve many ionic compounds. Its melting point is −84 °C and its boiling point is 19.54 °C (at atmospheric pressure); the difference between the two is a little more than 100 K. HF also makes hydrogen bonds with its neighbor molecules, as do water and ammonia. It has been considered as a possible solvent for life by scientists such as Peter Sneath and Carl Sagan.\n\nHF is dangerous to the systems of molecules that Earth-life is made of, but certain other organic compounds, such as paraffin waxes, are stable with it. Like water and ammonia, liquid hydrogen fluoride supports an acid-base chemistry. Using a solvent system definition of acidity and basicity, nitric acid functions as a base when it is added to liquid HF.\n\nHowever, hydrogen fluoride is cosmically rare, unlike water, ammonia, and methane.\n\nHydrogen sulfide is the closest chemical analog to water, but is less polar and a weaker inorganic solvent. Hydrogen sulfide is quite plentiful on Jupiter's moon Io, and may be in liquid form a short distance below the surface; astrobiologist Dirk Schulze-Makuch has suggested it as a possible solvent for life there. On a planet with hydrogen-sulfide oceans the source of the hydrogen sulfide could come from volcanos, in which case it could be mixed in with a bit of hydrogen fluoride, which could help dissolve minerals. Hydrogen sulfide life might use a mixture of carbon monoxide and carbon dioxide as their carbon source. They might produce and live off of sulfur monoxide, which is analogous to oxygen (O). Hydrogen sulfide, like hydrogen cyanide and ammonia, suffers from the small temperature range where it is liquid, though that, like that of hydrogen cyanide and ammonia, increases with increasing pressure.\n\nSilicon dioxide, also known as glass, silica, or quartz, is very abundant in the universe and has a large temperature range where it is liquid. However, its melting point is , so it would be impossible to make organic compounds in that temperature, because all of them would decompose. Silicates are similar to silicon dioxide and some could have lower boiling points than silica. Gerald Feinberg and Robert Shapiro have suggested that molten silicate rock could serve as a liquid medium for organisms with a chemistry based on silicon, oxygen, and other elements such as aluminium.\n\nOther solvents sometimes proposed:\n\nSulfuric acid in liquid form is strongly polar. It remains liquid at higher temperatures than water, its liquid range being 10 °C to 337 °C at a pressure of 1 atm, although above 300 °C it will slowly decompose. Sulfuric acid is known to be abundant in the clouds of Venus, in the form of aerosol droplets. In a biochemistry that used sulfuric acid as a solvent, the alkene group (C=C), with two carbon atoms joined by a double bond, could function analogously to the carbonyl group (C=O) in water-based biochemistry.\n\nA proposal has been made that life on Mars may exist and be using a mixture of water and hydrogen peroxide as its solvent. \nA 61.2% (by weight) mix of water and hydrogen peroxide has a freezing point of −56.5 °C, and also tends to super-cool rather than crystallize. It is also hygroscopic, an advantage in a water-scarce environment.\n\nSupercritical carbon dioxide has been proposed as a candidate for alternative biochemistry due to its ability to selectively dissolve organic compounds and assist the functioning of enzymes and because \"super-Earth\"- or \"super-Venus\"-type planets with dense high-pressure atmospheres may be common.\n\nPhysicists have noted that, although photosynthesis on Earth generally involves green plants, a variety of other-colored plants could also support photosynthesis, essential for most life on Earth, and that other colors might be preferred in places that receive a different mix of stellar radiation than Earth. \nThese studies indicate that, although blue photosynthetic plants would be less likely, yellow or red plants are plausible.\n\nMany Earth plants and animals undergo major biochemical changes during their life cycles as a response to changing environmental conditions, for example, by having a spore or hibernation state that can be sustained for years or even millennia between more active life stages. Thus, it would be biochemically possible to sustain life in environments that are only periodically consistent with life as we know it.\n\nFor example, frogs in cold climates can survive for extended periods of time with most of their body water in a frozen state, whereas desert frogs in Australia can become inactive and dehydrate in dry periods, losing up to 75% of their fluids, yet return to life by rapidly rehydrating in wet periods. Either type of frog would appear biochemically inactive (i.e. not living) during dormant periods to anyone lacking a sensitive means of detecting low levels of metabolism.\n\nIn 2007, Vadim N. Tsytovich and colleagues proposed that lifelike behaviors could be exhibited by dust particles suspended in a plasma, under conditions that might exist in space. Computer models showed that, when the dust became charged, the particles could self-organize into microscopic helical structures, and the authors offer \"a rough sketch of a possible model of the helical grain structure reproduction\".\n\nScientists who have considered possible alternatives to carbon-water biochemistry include:\n\n"}
{"id": "38593960", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38593960", "title": "Inspiration Mars Foundation", "text": "Inspiration Mars Foundation\n\nInspiration Mars Foundation is an American nonprofit organization founded by Dennis Tito that in 2013 proposed to launch a crewed mission to flyby Mars in January 2018, or 2021 if they missed the first synodic opportunity in 2018.\n\nTheir website became defunct by late 2015 but it is archived by the Internet Archive. The Foundation's future plans are unclear.\n\nOn 27 February 2013, the Inspiration Mars Foundation held a press conference in the National Press Club to announce their plan to procure space hardware, launch vehicle services, and select a two-person married couple as crew, and then attempt to raise the funding necessary to launch a mission to Mars in 2018. Dennis Tito said he was going to fund the foundation with $100 million for the first years of operation.\n\nAt the 2013 conference, however, Dennis Tito indicated that the plan was impossible without significant investment from NASA and the use of NASA spacecraft. NASA, however, was an unwilling partner.\n\nThe total cost of the mission was projected to be between US$1 and US$2 billion. Tito planned to fund the foundation's cost for the first two years. Then, the foundation planned to raise funds from industry and individuals.\n\nHowever, in testimony before congress in November 2013, Tito indicated that he expected private donors to only provide around $300 million, leaving the need for an additional investment of $700 million from the US government. NASA responded that whilst they were willing to share technical and programmatic expertise with Inspiration Mars, they were unable to commit to sharing expenses with them. The foundation's funding model, dependent on an unwilling partner, was broken.\n\nIn March 2014, SpaceX indicated that they had also been contacted by Inspiration Mars, but that accommodating such requirements would require some additional work and that such work was not a part of the current focus of SpaceX.\n\nThe proposal, that was never funded, was based on a free return trajectory to allow the spacecraft to use the smallest possible amount of propellant to flyby Mars and return to Earth. Leaders of the Foundation stated that the January 2018 launch window offered a rare orbit opportunity to travel to Mars and return to Earth in 501 days. \n\nTheir backup plan involved a mission that would begin in 2021 but be 88 days longer in duration. They stated it would require both a flyby of Venus and a fly-by of Mars. The flight would take the spacecraft to within 800 kilometres of the surface of Venus, using the planet for a gravity assist to speed the onward travel to Mars.\n\nAccording to a paper written by Dennis Tito, \"the mission would require no maneuvers except small course corrections after a trans-Martian injection burn, [and] would allow no aborts. ... [It will] use low Earth orbit launch and crewed-spacecraft technology, outfitted for the long duration of a flight to Mars.\"\n\nThey speculated that when the spacecraft returned to Earth it would reenter the atmosphere at 50 000 km per hour (ca 13.9 km/s), which was faster than any previous return.\n\nDuring the 16th Annual International Mars Society Convention in 2013, the Mars Society announced the launch of an international engineering competition for student teams to propose design concepts for the architecture of the Inspiration Mars mission. The contest was open to university engineering student teams. The design contest took place on August 9, 2014, and was won by an international team from Purdue University in US and Keio University in Japan.\n\nA spokesman for NASA stated that \"Inspiration Mars's proposed schedule is a significant challenge due to life support systems, space radiation response, habitats and the human psychology of being in a small spacecraft for over 500 days\", but that \"we remain open to further collaboration as their proposal and plans for a later mission develop\". John Logsdon, professor emeritus at George Washington University's Space Policy Institute, also found the short preparation time-frame wanting, saying that it is \"totally implausible\" for a mission to be launched in 2018, although the\"Plan B\" mission might be possible \"if the stars align\".\n\nIt is unclear whether the Foundation is still in operation as their website is now defunct.\n\n"}
{"id": "47853706", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47853706", "title": "Institute for the Future", "text": "Institute for the Future\n\nThe Institute for the Future (IFTF) is a Palo Alto, California, US–based not-for-profit think tank. It was established, in 1968, as a spin-off from the RAND Corporation to help organizations plan for the long-term future, a subject known as futures studies.\n\nFirst references to the idea of an \"Institute for the Future\" may be found in a 1966 Prospectus by Olaf Helmer and others. While at RAND Corporation, Helmer had already been involved with developing the Delphi method of futures studies. He, and others, wished to extend the work further with an emphasis on examining multiple scenarios. This can be seen in the prospectus summary:\n\nThe Institute opened in 1968, in Middletown, Connecticut. The initial group was led by Frank Davidson and included Olaf Helmer, Paul Baran, Arnold Kramish, and Theodore Gordon.\nThe Institute’s work initially relied on the forecasting methods built upon by Helmer while at RAND. The Delphi method was used to glean information from multiple anonymous sources. It was augmented by Cross Impact Analysis, which encouraged analysts to consider multiple future scenarios.\n\nWhile precise and powerful, the methods that had been developed in a corporate environment were oriented to providing business and economic analyses. At a 1971 conference on mathematical modelling Helmer noted the need for similar improvements in societal modelling. Early attempts at doing so included a ‘Future State of the Union’ report, formatted according to the traditional US Presidential address to the Nation.\n\nDespite establishing an excellent reputation for painstaking analysis of future analyses and forecasting methods, various problems meant that the Institute struggled to find its footing at first. In 1970 Helmer took over the leadership from Davidson, and the Institute shifted its Headquarters to Menlo Park, California.\n\nIn 1971 Roy Amara took over from Helmer, who continued to run the Middletown office until his departure in 1973. Amara held this position until 1990. During Amara's presidency, the Institute conducted some of the earliest studies of the impact of the ARPANET on collaborative work and scientific research, and was notable for its research on computer mediated communications, also known as groupware.\n\nStarting from the early seventies astrophysicist and computer scientist Jacques Vallee, sociologist Bob Johansen, and technology forecaster Paul Saffo worked for IFTF.\n\nIn 1975 the Corporate Associates Program was started to assist private organisations interpret emerging trends and the long-term consequences. Although this program operated until 2001, its role as the Institute's main reporting tool was superseded by the Ten Year Forecast in 1978.\n\nIn 1984 the sociologist Herbert L Smith noted that, by the late 1970s, the idea of an open Union reporting format had given way to the proprietary Ten Year Forecast. Smith interpreted this as a renewed focus on business forecasting as public funds became scarce.\n\nIt is not clear how pertinent Smith's observations were to how the Institute was operating in this period. Sociologists such as Bob Johansen continued to be active in the Institute's projects. Having taken part in early ARPANET development, Institute staff were well aware of the impact that computer networking would have on society and its inclusion in policy making. However, in a 1984 essay, Roy Amara appeared to acknowledge some form of crisis, and a renewed interest in societal forecasting.\n\nNew ways of presenting studies to a less specialised audience were adopted, or developed. As an aid to memory retention, 'Vignetting' presented future scenarios as short stories; to illustrate the point of the scenario, and engage the reader’s attention. Later initiatives showed an increasing emphasis on narrative engagement, e.g. ‘Artifacts of the future’, and 'Human-future interaction'.\n\nEthnographic forecasting was adopted as it became recognised that \"society\" was actually a myriad of sub-cultures, each with its own outlook.\n\nWhile older forecasting methods sought the advice of field experts, newer techniques sought the statistical input from all members of society. Public interaction, provided via the internet and social media, made it possible to engage in \"bottom up forecasting\". While roleplaying and simulation games had long been part of a forecaster's tools, they could now be scaled up into \"massively multiplayer forecasting games\" such as Superstruct. This game enlisted the blogs and wikis of over 5,000 people to discuss life 10 years in the future; presenting them with a set of hypothetical, overlapping social threats, and encouraging them to seek collaborative \"superstruct\" solutions. The concept of the superstruct was subsequently incorporated into the Institute's ‘Foresight Engine’ tool.\n\nThe Institute maintains research programs on the futures of technology, health, and organizations. It publishes a variety of reports and maps, as well as \"Future Now\", a blog on emerging technologies. It offers three programs to its clients:\n\nIn 2014 the Institute moved its Headquarters to 201 Hamilton Avenue, Palo Alto, California.\n\nThe Institute's annual publication \"Future Now\" is intended to provide summaries of the Institute's body of research. The inaugural edition was published in February 2017. Its theme \"The New Body Language\" concentrated on the Technology Horizons Program's studies on human and machine symbiosis.\n\n the Institute's executive director is Marina Gorbis. Also associated with the institute are David Pescovitz, Anthony M. Townsend, Jane McGonigal, and Jamais Cascio.\n"}
{"id": "32016230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32016230", "title": "Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal", "text": "Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal\n\nThe Los Angeles fetus disposal scandal was the 1982 discovery of over 16,000 aborted fetuses being improperly stored at Malvin Weisberg's Woodland Hills, California, home and the ensuing legal battle regarding their disposal. It was called a \"national tragedy\" by the then-president Ronald Reagan and inspired a song by pop singer Pat Boone, with the fetuses finally buried in 1985. No criminal charges were filed against any of the parties involved. Weisberg had stored the specimens properly but had not disposed of them due to financial difficulties.\n\nMalvin Weisberg had operated Medical Analytic Laboratories in Santa Monica from 1976 until March 1981. He purchased a 20-foot (6.1 m) storage container in 1980, delivering it to his Woodland Hills home and paying for it with a bounced check for $1700. The container was repossessed on February 3, 1982, by the Martin Container Company, based in the Wilmington area of Los Angeles. The company opened the container on the following day, discovering the fetuses, which were stored in formaldehyde.\n\nThe initial press conference, on February 5, 1982, by the Los Angeles County Health Department said up to 500 fetuses were found. On February 24, 1982, the count of fetuses was raised to approximately 2000, with the majority of them being from the storage container and 200–300 from Weisberg's garage.\n\nThe tally of fetuses was estimated at \"up to 17,000\" in May 1982, and was later finally set at 16,431. A count of 193 fetuses were evidently over 20 weeks' gestation, with the oldest almost 30 weeks.\n\nState law required the fetuses to be cremated or buried \"within a reasonable time\".\n\nThe fetuses resulted from pregnancies terminated by licensed physicians, clinics and hospitals who contracted Medical Analytic Laboratories for pathology testing and disposal of the fetuses.\n\nThe Los Angeles County District Attorney, John Van de Kamp, said the fetuses would be individually examined and charges would be filed against the doctors if fetuses were over the 20-week gestation limit allowed by California law at the time. Officials found 193 fetuses that appeared to be over the 20-week limit. Van de Kamp wanted to turn the remaining fetuses over to groups who would perform memorial services on them.\n\nIn May 1982, California Attorney General George Deukmejian stated the gestation limit of the 1967 California abortion law was considered unenforceable because of conflicts with the 23-week Roe v. Wade ruling in 1973, but fetuses could be individually examined to determine viability, which was the legal limit. In late May, Van de Kamp stated every fetus would be examined to determine if the fetus was aborted illegally.\n\nIn 1982 president Ronald Reagan wrote a letter advocating for memorial services \"for these children\", referring to it as \"this national tragedy\".\n\nThe matter came in front of the judge because of a lawsuit filed against Van de Kamp by Carol Downer of the Los Angeles Feminist Women's Health Center and the American Civil Liberties Union. John Lynch, the chief deputy county counsel stated it was inappropriate to enjoin Van de Kamp, who was simply a \"man in the middle\", and that the lawsuit should be filed against pro-choice groups instead. In June 1982, Los Angeles County Superior Court judge Dickran Tevrizian issued a temporary restraining order against Van de Kamp to prevent the unconstitutional release of the fetuses to groups for burial, but allowed him to legally dispose of the fetuses, called \"vague\" by John Lynch, the chief deputy county counsel.\n\nIn October 1982, Van de Kamp petitioned the court to allow the burial of all but the 193 late-term fetuses in common graves at Valhalla Memorial Park Cemetery, which offered free burial. The fetuses were not buried at Valhalla, which later stated it offered the burial plot because \"the right-to-life groups came to us, and we said we wouldn't endorse any political viewpoint, but we thought that interring the bodies was a proper thing to do as a service\".\n\nIn December 1982, Los Angeles Superior Court judge Eli Chernow ruled the 20-week limit was unconstitutional, also ruling that Van de Kamp could bury the fetuses and pro-life groups could hold onsite memorial services.\n\nBy July 1983, the district attorney was Robert Philibosian, who stated he preferred a \"dignified burial\" and would not file charges.\n\nIn July 1984, the California Courts of Appeal overturned Superior Court of Los Angeles County judge Eli Chernow, ruling the fetuses could not be buried as human remains, which was a win for pro-choice groups and feminists. The case had been appealed by Carol Downer of the Los Angeles Feminist Women's Health Center and the American Civil Liberties Union and was denounced by the California Pro-Life Medical Association, the Catholic League. The appealing parties argued that allowing pro-life groups to bury the remains violated the separation of church and state. The Court's opinion stated \"it is clear from the record that the Catholic League is a religious organization which regards a fetus as a human being and abortion as murder. While this specific belief may well cross sectarian lines... any state action showing a preference for this belief will be strictly scrutinized and must be invalidated\". Since fetal remains are normally incinerated without ceremony, there was no reason to do otherwise with these fetuses, stating \"We perceive that the intended burial ceremony will enlist the prestige and power of the state. This is constitutionally forbidden.\" However, religious services could hold concurrent onsite memorial services, which was praised by US president Ronald Reagan in a letter to the California Pro-Life Medical Association, admiring their decision \"to hold a memorial service for these children\". Philibosian announced he would appeal the ruling allowing onsite memorial services. In October 1984, U.S. Supreme Court justice William Rehnquist refused to turn over the state appeals court ruling allowing the religious ceremonies. This was officially upheld by the Supreme Court in March 1985.\n\nIn May 1985, singer Pat Boone announced he recorded a song titled \"Sixteen Thousand Faces\" about the incident, first played at a pro-life memorial service for the fetuses at Live Oak Memorial Park in Monrovia, where a granite tombstone was left with the inscription \"For all those deprived of life and human love through abortion\". In response, the California Abortion Rights Action League director said the service and marker \"[humanized] fetuses when they deny the humanity of women already born\". The ceremony was attended by \"several hundred anti-abortionists\", including Representative Bob Dornan and the Feminists for Life group. At the time, the fetuses had not been disposed of.\n\nIn August 1985, the Los Angeles County Board of Supervisors ordered the fetuses be turned over to the Guerra-Gutirrez-Alexander Mortuary for burial. Per the court's order, the mortuary was selected because they did not have a religious affiliation. At the time, it was noted by the Los Angeles County Department of Health Services that the fetuses had been kept in \"five pine boxes\". The department assured ACLU that there were no identifying marks on canisters containing the fetuses, and ACLU stated they would not object to a secular burial. While ACLU would not object, the Feminist Women's Health Center petitioned the Los Angeles Superior Court to block the burial, but the courts refused.\n\nThe disposition occurred on October 6, 1985, with the fetuses in six pine boxes, which were buried at the Odd Fellows Cemetery in Boyle Heights. The pro-life group Feminists for Life didn't plan a full memorial service since they held a service in May, but the Americans Committed to Loving the Unwanted held a service. The Feminist Women's Health Center was dismayed over the public burial. About 250 individuals attended the service, including County Supervisor Michael D. Antonovich, who read a message from Ronald Reagan but stressed his attendance was in an unofficial capacity. Reagan's message stated \"Just as the terrible toll of Gettysburg can be traced to a tragic decision of a divided Supreme Court, so also can these deaths we mourn. Once again a whole category of human beings has been ruled outside the protection of the law by a court ruling which clashed with our deepest moral convictions.\" Others in attendance were Representative Bob Dornan, state Senate President David A. Roberti, and state Representative Joseph Montoya. The pro-life group Americans Committed to Loving the Unwanted organized the service, including requesting a three-man Marine Corps color guard, who placed an American flag on a box and stood at attention throughout the service.\n\nWeisberg's Medical Analytical Laboratories received nearly $175,000 in Medi-Cal payments, with $88,000 coming from pathology tests on aborted fetuses. Of this, half of it ($44,000) was paid federally through the United States Department of Health and Human Services (HHS). By the Hyde Amendment, this money was ineligible for testing on pre-abortion or post-abortion tissue, which meant the state of California would need to pay back federal funds claimed by Weisberg and by any other laboratories, according to HHS inspector Richard P. Kusserow. Kusserow also stated \"prior to its closing in April, 1981, [Medical Analytical Laboratories] had routinely submitted questionable billings under the Medi-Cal program, using an erroneous billing code... the case lacked criminal prosecutive merit due to a lack of proof that the false billings were intentional. Because the laboratory was out of business, and its owner had declared bankruptcy, there were no assets against which to proceed for civil recovery\".\n\n"}
{"id": "85466", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85466", "title": "Manes", "text": "Manes\n\nIn ancient Roman religion, the Manes or Di Manes are chthonic deities sometimes thought to represent souls of deceased loved ones. They were associated with the \"Lares\", \"Lemures,\" \"Genii\", and \"Di Penates\" as deities (\"di\") that pertained to domestic, local, and personal cult. They belonged broadly to the category of \"di inferi\", \"those who dwell below,\" the undifferentiated collective of divine dead. The Manes were honored during the Parentalia and Feralia in February.\n\nThe theologian St. Augustine, writing about the subject a few centuries after most of the Latin pagan references to such spirits, differentiated Manes from other types of Roman spirits:\n\nLatin spells of antiquity were often addressed to the Manes.\n\nManes may be derived from \"an archaic adjective manus —\"good\"— which was the opposite of immanis (monstrous)\".\n\nRoman tombstones often included the letters \"D.M.\", which stood for \"diis manibus\", \"for the ghost-gods\" or figuratively translated, \"for the Manes\", an abbreviation that continued to appear even in Christian inscriptions.\n\nThe Manes were offered blood sacrifices. The gladiatorial games, originally held at funerals, may have been instituted in the honor of the Manes. According to Cicero, the \"Manes\" could be called forth from the caves near Lake Avernus.\n\nWhen a new town was founded, a round hole would be dug and a stone called a \"lapis manalis\" would be placed in the foundations, representing a gate to the underworld. Due to similar names, the \"lapis manalis\" is often confused with the \"lapis manilis\" in commentaries even in antiquity: \"The 'flowing stone' … must not be confused with the stone of the same name which, according to Festus, was the gateway to the underworld.\"\n\nCyril Bailey writes:\n\n\"Of this we have a characteristic example in the ceremony of the \"aquaelicium\", designed to produce rain after a long drought. In classical times the ceremony consisted in a procession headed by the pontifices, which bore the sacred rain-stone from its resting-place by the Porta Capena to the Capitol, where offerings were made to the sky-deity, Iuppiter, but from the analogy of other primitive cults and the sacred title of the stone (\"lapis manalis\"), it is practically certain that the original ritual was the purely imitative process of pouring water over the stone.\n"}
{"id": "57879680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57879680", "title": "Manuel Komnenos (kouropalates)", "text": "Manuel Komnenos (kouropalates)\n\nManuel Komnenos (, \"Manouēl Komnēnos\"; – 17 April 1071) was a Byzantine aristocrat and military leader, the oldest son of John Komnenos and brother of emperor Alexios I Komnenos. A relative by marriage of emperor Romanos IV Diogenes, he was placed in charge of expeditions against Turkish raids in 1070–1071, until his sudden death by illness in April 1071.\n\nManuel was the first-born child of John Komnenos, and his wife Anna Dalassene. The date of his birth is unknown, but he was described as a youth in 1068, so he must have been born around 1045. Already as a child, as was customary for children of the Byzantine aristocracy, he was trained in war by his father, who at the time was \"domestikos ton scholon\" (commander-in-chief) of the Eastern field army. By 1068 Manuel held the high court rank of \"protoproedros\". In that year he married a relative of Emperor Romanos IV Diogenes (), who on the occasion raised him further to \"kouropalates\" and appointed him to the military post of \"protostrator\". The couple had at least one daughter, most likely named Anna after Manuel's mother.\n\nAs \"protostrator\", Manuel confronted the raids of the Seljuq Turks into eastern Asia Minor. In one such skirmish in 1070, he foolhardily pressed ahead to the Turkish camp, and was captured after a bitter struggle. His loss led to the defeat of his army and the capture of his two lieutenants and brothers-in-law, Michael Taronites and Nikephoros Melissenos. Brought before the Turkish leader, a certain Chrysoskoulos, Manuel managed to inflame his ambition and raise him in revolt against his nominal sovereign, Sultan Alp Arslan (). Indeed, Chrysoskoulos accompanied his captives to the Byzantine capital, Constantinople, where Romanos IV received them with much honour.\n\nIn spring 1071, Manuel and Chrysoskoulos went on campaign together against the Seljuqs, but on the way Manuel fell heavily ill with an ear infection in Bithynia. His mother hurried to his side at the monastery of Theotokos of Alypos on Mt. Azalas, but arrived barely in time for him to bid her farewell before he died. According to the late 12th-century \"typikon\" of the Monastery of Christ Philanthropos, founded by Empress Irene Doukaina, wife of Manuel's younger brother Alexios I Komnenos (), he died on 17 April (the day of his commemoration). In the \"typikon\", he is listed as a \"sebastos\", but this is an anachronism reflecting later practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "38160633", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38160633", "title": "NASA categories of evidence", "text": "NASA categories of evidence\n\nNASA Categories of Evidence comprise a matrix or scale denoting the sources of evidence provided in the Human Research Program's various evidence reports, and thus potentially their probative value and efficacy. Authors in the Program were urged to label their evidence according to whether it was based on controlled experiments, observation, or expert opinion.\n"}
{"id": "45055587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45055587", "title": "Ndue Përlleshi", "text": "Ndue Përlleshi\n\nNdue Përlleshi, (1908–1949), was a Kosovar-Albanian military leader, local and national hero, known as \"Trimi I Dukagjinit\". He was the Commander of the \"Dukagjini Band\" during World War II. In Mars 8, 1948, during the Battle of Bokshiq, Ndue Perlleshi, along Shaban Dema and Ndrec Nikolla, fought Montenegrin and Albanian communist forces numbering 600. Perlleshi killed 27 communists, and wounded many others, and both his comrades died. He survived with four wounds and returned to his home until Janko Boric, the local community leader, spotted him and threw a grenade through his window. Perlleshi quickly grabbed it and tossed it back to Boric wounding him. Ndue Perlleshi was killed on August 29, 1949 in Albania by the communist forces of Mehmet Shehu. Ndue Perlleshi is a much honoured hero amongst the Albanians of Dukagjin and Peja-region. He is mentioned in Albanian epic folklore.\n"}
{"id": "12029911", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12029911", "title": "Pecho Dexter", "text": "Pecho Dexter\n\nPecho Dexter (1963–1984) was an American Quarter Horse. He earned his slot in the American Quarter Horse Hall of Fame by the claiming 13 year-end high point awards in four years, showing in halter, western pleasure, trail horse, and what was then called English Pleasure, but is now Hunter Under Saddle. In all, he earned a total of 1058 points with the American Quarter Horse Association (or AQHA). \n\nPecho Dexter was a gelding, a son of Poco Pecho, grandson of Hall of Fame member Poco Pine, and a descendant of Poco Bueno. His dam Miss Hogan was a double descendant of Golden Chief. He also traced to Peter McCue and Joe Hancock P-455.\n\nPecho Dexter died in 1984 and in 2005 was inducted into the AQHA Hall of Fame. Second horse inducted into the National Snaffle Bit Association (NSBA) Hall of Fame.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20088184", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20088184", "title": "Pet Pals: Animal Doctor", "text": "Pet Pals: Animal Doctor\n\nPet Pals: Animal Doctor is a video game created by Legacy Interactive in which the player is a veterinarian, and must take care of 35 animals brought to their clinic. In the Wii version the player takes care of 30 animals. It is rated E10+ by the American Entertainment Software Rating Board.\n\nIn 2007, it was given the \"Silver honor\" award by the Parents' Choice Foundation.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25869076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25869076", "title": "Philosophy of life", "text": "Philosophy of life\n\nThere are at least two senses in which the term philosophy is used: a formal and an informal sense. In the formal sense, philosophy is an academic study of the fields of aesthetics, ethics, epistemology, logic, metaphysics, as well as social and political philosophy. One's \"philosophy of life\" is philosophy in the informal sense, as a personal philosophy, whose focus is resolving the existential questions about the human condition. \n\n\"Philosophy of life\" also refers to a specific conception of philosophizing as a way of life, endorsed by the German \"Lebensphilosophie\" movement whose main representative is Wilhelm Dilthey and several other Continental philosophers such as Henri Bergson and Pierre Hadot.\n\nThe human situation appears to be a struggle between what \"is\" (existence) and what \"ought\" (essence) to be.\n\nThere are at least three prevailing theories on how to respond to the existential question.\n\n\n\n\nThere are two basic forms of existentialism:\n\nReligious existentialism is best exemplified by St. Augustine, Blaise Pascal, Paul Tillich, and the philosophy of Søren Kierkegaard. Religious existentialism holds that there are two levels of reality, essence, which is the ground of being, and existence. Religion is the ultimate concern in this view.\n\nAtheistic existentialism is best exemplified by Friedrich Nietzsche, Martin Heidegger, and Jean-Paul Sartre. It holds that there is one level of reality, existence. In this view, each person constructs his own unique and temporary essence.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43631884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43631884", "title": "Ray Robinson (activist)", "text": "Ray Robinson (activist)\n\nPerry Ray Robinson (12 September 1937 – c. 25 April 1973), was an American civil rights activist from Alabama during the Civil Rights Movement. He had been active in Mississippi and Washington, DC, supporting the March on Washington and the Poor People's Campaign. He disappeared while participating in the 1973 \nAmerican Indian Movement resistance in the Wounded Knee incident on the Pine Ridge Indian Reservation in South Dakota.\n\nHis family never saw him again, and his wife believed he was killed there. She struggled to get Robinson's disappearance investigated. In 2014 the FBI confirmed that Robinson had been killed and buried on the reservation in April 1973; it released redacted documents to the Robinson family under a Freedom of Information Act suit, including redacted interviews with cooperating witnesses. His remains have not been found. The FBI said it had closed his case.\n\nRay Robinson was born on 12 September 1937 in Bogue Chitto, Alabama. He attended local segregated schools. Strong and athletic, he became a prize fighter.\n\nAfter leaving boxing, Robinson became a civil rights activist and follower of Martin Luther King, Jr. He participated in the 1963 March on Washington and heard King's noted speech, \"I Have a Dream.\" Robinson attended the funerals held for three civil rights workers killed in 1964 in Mississippi. He participated in organizing Resurrection City, a camp set up in 1968 at the Washington Mall to draw attention to the plight of poor people of color in the United States.\n\nRobinson was affiliated with Bradford Lyttle, the founder of the United States Pacifist Party. Lyttle said about Robinson, \"He was quite forthcoming and very vigorous and willing to take risks. He put himself out in front of the project. And we decided we would take him on into the South.\"\n\nRose Sanders (since 2003 known as Faya Ora Rose Touré), the first black female judge in the state of Alabama, described Robinson as being called to the civil rights movement. She said in a 2004 telephone interview: \"He was a true soldier. He was a true liberator. He really believed all people should be free.\"\n\nIn the late 1960s Robinson also supported the Vietnam Veterans Against the War (VVAW), organized in 1967. While participating in a 1966 anti-war rally in Madison, Wisconsin, he met Cheryl Buswell; they later married. She had been raised in a Republican household, but dropped out of college to become politically active.\n\nBuswell returned with Robinson to Alabama, where they worked in grassroots movements for education and nutrition. They lived in Selma, Alabama, and had three children together from 1967 to 1972.\n\nDuring a 1973 meeting of VVAW, Robinson learned of the ongoing occupation of Wounded Knee, South Dakota by American Indian Movement activists at the Pine Ridge Reservation to protest federal government policies. AIM was appealing for supporters. According to his wife, Robinson decided to go to the reservation to support the occupation and work to align the rights movements of both groups of people of color. Four African Americans from Alabama went to Pine Ridge; three returned.\n\nCheryl Robinson never saw her husband again. She filed a missing person's report with the FBI and in October 1974 traveled to AIM offices in Rapid City, South Dakota and its headquarters in St. Paul, Minnesota, but was not able to learn much more about her husband's fate. Most AIM representatives denied knowing of him being at Wounded Knee. She hired an investigator, Barbara Deming, and was told that her husband had backpacked into Wounded Knee during the night in order to avoid checkpoints. One person said that he was shot after failing to follow an order to report to one of the AIM leaders. Deming and Robinson corresponded for some time.\n\nIn 2011, Buffalo-based attorney Michael Kuzma filed a FOIA request with the FBI for records concerning Robinson's disappearance. In 2013, Kuzma filed a lawsuit in the United States District Court for the Western District of New York to gain full access to documents about the case.\n\nRobinson was later declared legally dead although his burial site has not been discovered, and his body has never been recovered.\n\nDennis Banks, then a top leader within the American Indian Movement, claimed that he had no knowledge of Ray Robinson. He said that he had never met him and learned of his being at Wounded Knee only through inquiries by his family members. \"Over the years, the Robinson name has popped up and I’m not sure even who would have that information or where it was. That’s a complete blank to me.\"\n\nBut in 2001, Darlene (Ka-Mook) Nichols, formerly Banks' common-law wife in the 1970s, interviewed him while trying to learn more about the 1975 murder of AIM activist Anna Mae Aquash. Banks happened to discuss Robinson, saying that he had been shot by another AIM officer and bled to death because the group was under siege and had no way to treat him adequately. Banks said he saw Robinson's body and ordered a subordinate, Chris Westerman, to \"bury him where no one will know.\" He said Westerman was \"gone for about five hours\" and that Robinson had been buried \"over by the creek.\" (Westerman is the brother of activist, actor and musician Floyd Westerman.) In another account, Banks claimed that Harry \"Mr. X\" David Hill shot Robinson. However FBI files show David Hill had already left Wounded Knee in early March and Robinson was allegedly killed in April. According to Paul DeMain, FBI files show Hill was under FBI surveillance at the time of the alleged killing.\n\nOver time, other rumors and information surfaced. At a time of high suspicion of outsiders, many in AIM were said to have believed Robinson had been an FBI informant. Publisher Paul DeMain reported that a former AIM member described Robinson to him as a \"loud mouthed nigger, who refused to pick up a gun during a firefight,\" making him suspect.\n\nIn 2011 AIM leader Carter Camp told Robinson's daughters that the Guardians of the Oglala Nation, commonly known on the reservation as GOONs, killed their father. They had previously been established by a reservation leader who was opposed by many activists. Activist John Trimbach criticized this account for distorting the history of the Wounded Knee incident and failing to provide substantive evidence of the allegations.\n\nIn 2013 Robinson's daughter Tamara Kamara, worked with attorney Michael Kuzma in Buffalo, New York where she lived, to file a Freedom of Information suit against the FBI and government to force the release of relevant documents. Her mother and remaining family were then living in Detroit, Michigan.\n\nOn 11 March 2014, the FBI released documents to the Robinson lawyer Michael Kuzma confirming the death of a black civil rights activist during the 1973 AIM occupation of Wounded Knee. A memorandum from the FBI dated 21 May 1973 reported that an Indian woman who had left the village said there were 200 Indians, 11 whites and two blacks in the occupation. Robinson was reported as having been accompanied to the siege by a black woman. She returned to her home town, but he disappeared. The Robinson family lawyer said FBI files included statements that 'Robinson had been tortured and murdered within the AIM occupation perimeter, and then his remains were buried \"in the hills.\"'\n\nOne witness interviewed by FBI agents said that Robinson had been in Wounded Knee for approximately a week before his death. During this time, the witness said that Robinson had trouble adapting to the harsh conditions and discipline imposed under the siege. These conditions included a shortage of food, constant surveillance, regular shootings as the occupation was \"under fire,\" and the unilateral AIM command.\n\nThe witness said Robinson tried to discuss strategies, but no one listened or gave him any serious consideration. After he got into a heated exchange with another activist, he was escorted to a house by a security team. There Robinson grabbed a butcher knife from a table and the team gathered around him. The witness said, \"The next thing, I heard a loud bang and saw Mr. Robinson’s lower leg spin from the knee and rotate outward as he started to fall forward. His eyes rolled up as he went down.\" The security team is alleged to have consisted of, among other members, Leonard Crow Dog, Carter Camp, Dennis Banks, Frank Blackhorse, Stan Holder, Harry David Hill, and Clyde Bellecourt. According to Bernie Lafferty, a witness who confirmed Robinson's presence on the reservation during the Wounded Knee incident, during an evening meeting, several AIM members openly discussed the murder of a Black man whom they had buried on the hillside. These members included Banks, Camp, Russell Means, Holder and Hill.\n\nRobinson had adopted a non-violent philosophy in his civil rights work. This position put him at odds with AIM, which conducted armed resistance to the federal government. This likely added to existing suspicions of him as an outsider to the Indian movement. The Pine Ridge Reservation had already been disrupted because of severe internal political conflict over the leadership of Richard Wilson.\n\nYears later AIM member Richard Two Elk described Robinson's behavior: \"He would eat what little food we had. There was no food so everyone was trying not to eat and this guy was eating freely all the time.\" AIM members resented his actions.\n\nBuswell-Robinson learned of some accounts of her husband from Barbara Deming's research. They corresponded in 1974. \"He was sitting on somebody’s porch eating oatmeal. An Indian dude came up, ordered him to go see Dennis Banks. Ray said: ‘In a minute – I’m eating my oatmeal – I’ll go when I’ve finished.’ The Indian dude got affronted by Ray's lack of servility. The Indian shot Ray dead,\" Cheryl Robinson wrote. Cheryl Buswell-Robinson said of her husband, \"Ray did not respond well to that authoritative direction.\"\n\nRichard Two Elk said that Robinson was the aggressor at the time he was shot. \"I think it was just a reaction. He jumped up and he had a knife and started moving and someone reacted. It happened in a couple of seconds. I think it was someone's gut level reaction in the middle of a firefight.\" Two Elk also said, \"One of the things that was quite apparent was the conflict and the clash of the two concepts of social rights-civil rights and Indian rights. Indian rights are in a whole different context. They (blacks) were coming from rights within the system and Indian rights was about sovereignty and independent nations.\" \n\nAnother account said that Robinson was shot in the knee after the security team entered the bunker. He was dragged outside, beaten and taken to the Wounded Knee Medical Clinic. This was run by Madonna Gilbert Thunderhawk and Lorelei DeCora Means, as well as several other volunteer nurses and medics, including non-Indians. Ray was reportedly held in a closet, where he bled to death. In correspondence with AIM members, Camp noted that he left Ray in Eagle Bunker after he had been shot in both legs. Camp said, \"I had to make the decision not to bring in Buddy Lamont until late afternoon after I knew he was killed in the early morning. I had to leave Ray's life to fight alone in eagle bunker after he was shot through both legs. I did these things to save other Indian lives.\"\n\nAIM co-founder Clyde Bellecourt, who was at Wounded Knee for 51 days of the siege, said that he had not heard of Robinson during AIM's occupation. He only learned of the activist's name in the fall of 2013 after being approached by his widow Cheryl Buswell-Robinson.\n\nThe late Vernon Bellecourt, older brother of Clyde and leader of an AIM chapter, was said to have known of Robinson's murder during the occupation. He reportedly said at one time that AIM had \"really managed to keep a tight lid on that one over the years.\"\n\nRobinson is survived by his widow, Cheryl Buswell-Robinson, and their three children, daughters Desiree Mark and Tamara Kamara, and son J. Marc Robinson.\n\nThe 2009 PBS documentary, \"We Shall Remain: Wounded Knee,\" covered the American Indian Movement during and through the Wounded Knee Incident, as part of a history of Native Americans. This episode was criticized at the time in a 6-page letter to PBS management signed by Joseph H. Trimbach, former FBI Special Agent-in-Charge at the time of the events, his son John M. Trimbach, and five Native Americans who had been involved at Wounded Knee; they said AIM violence had not been fully portrayed and noted the allegations about AIM responsibility for Robinson's and others' deaths on the reservation, as well as the 1975 murder of leader Annie Mae Aquash, had been glossed over. (By this time Trimbach father and son had published their own book about AIM.) The PBS Ombudsman discussed their objections and carried their letter on his webpage on May 20, 2009.\n\nAuthor Barbara Nixon wrote a book about the events of Wounded Knee, entitled \"Mi' Taku'Ye-Oyasin: Letters from Wounded Knee\" (2014). Mi' Taku'Ye-Oyasin is a phrase in Lakota that means \"All My Relations,\" referring to the concept of interconnectedness among the people. It included several letters related to Robinson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53533372", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53533372", "title": "Reconstitution (1970 film)", "text": "Reconstitution (1970 film)\n\nReconstitution () is a 1970 Greek dramatic black and white independent art film directed by Theo Angelopoulos. It is the director's first feature film. While based on true events, it transcends them to recall the ancient myths of the Atrides and Clytemnestra.\n\nIn 1986, the Greek Film Critics Association named it the third-best Greek film in history.\n\nIn a remote village in Epirus, a woman murders her husband, who had just returned from Germany, where he had gone to work, with the help of her lover. The crime is never shown on screen. The main characters (judge, policemen, journalists) try to reconstruct and understand a news item that escapes them.\n\n\n\nIt was awarded Best Film, Best Director, Best Supporting Actress and Best Cinematography at the Thessaloniki Festival of Greek Cinema in 1970, as well as Best Foreign Film at the Hyères Festival, International Federation of Film Critics Special Mention at the 21st Berlin International Film Festival and in 1971.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51769966", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51769966", "title": "Serpentario Viborana", "text": "Serpentario Viborana\n\nProject Vibroana () is a privately operated serpentarium, rescue centre and environmental education facility located near Turrialba Volcano in the Cartago Province of Costa Rica. The centre is dedicated to the rehabilitation of mistreated, injured, orphaned, and/or confiscated snakes, focusing primarily on venomous species. Once the animals are fully rehabilitated, they are reintroduced into their natural habitats in protected areas, mainly in the Pacuare River primary forest. Visitors are permitted in the centre during certain times each day. The center was created and is run by Minor Camacho, a Costa Rican herpatologist. The educational guide explores the natural history and habitat of poisonous snakes more than their taxonomy.\n\nThe Viborana centre also doubles as a snake call centre, with the owner and staff going out to homes to remove venomous snakes from places where they might inconvenience people.\n\nFounded by Minor Camacho Loaiza, a former reptile handler, trained at the University of Costa Rica and former chief of the Herpetarium division of the Department of Biochemistry of that University. The centre began as a herpetarium exhibition for reptiles and amphibians. Inspired on research findings that suggested an increase in snake populations around the Pacurare River sugarcane landscapes, the herpetarium redirected its focus towards the study of the dynamics of the Natural History of snakes in the fields of Cartago. \n\nThe centre is devoted to indigenous reptiles. Many are collected from local homes, yards, or from areas about to be burned under the controlled burning program to keep summer grass fires from threatening the local homes. Most of the reptiles end up being relocated to uninhabited areas. \n\nAnimals at the centre include the \"Bothrops lanceolatus\" — known as the \"fer-de-lance\"; \"Bothriechis schlegelii\", the eyelash viper; large and small pythons, coral snakes, and rattlesnakes, among others.\n\n"}
{"id": "6399802", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6399802", "title": "Stegron", "text": "Stegron\n\nStegron the Dinosaur Man is a fictional supervillain appearing in American comic books published by Marvel Comics. Created by writer Len Wein and artist Gil Kane, the character first appeared in \"Marvel Team-Up\" #19 (March 1974).\nVincent Stegron was hired by S.H.I.E.L.D. to work with Dr. Curt Connors to study DNA of dinosaurs from the Savage Land. Inspired by the experiment that turned Connors into the Lizard, Stegron stole some dinosaur DNA and injected himself with it. In moments Stegron transformed into an orange semi-humanoid \"Stegosaurus\"-like creature. Stegron gained the ability to command real dinosaurs, and he planned to use them in his plans for conquest of the world and converting all of humanity into creatures like himself. Taking several dinosaurs with him from the Savage Land to New York City, he encountered Spider-Man, Black Panther, and Ka-Zar. During the battle that followed, Stegron was beaten by being knocked into a nearby river and seemingly drowning.\n\nMonths later, Stegron returned and blackmailed Connors into helping him restore several dinosaur remains from a museum. Connors did what Stegron asked and accidentally turned into the Lizard. The two reptile-men clashed as Spider-Man arrived and later Stegron was sent into hibernation by the extremely cold temperatures the weather was producing.\n\nMonths later Stegron, now back in his human form, woke from hibernation and wandered New York. During a battle between the Vulture and Spider-Man, Stegron regained his dinosaur form and powers and joined many of Spider-Man's enemies (including Doctor Octopus, Vulture, Rhino, Beetle, Boomerang, Answer, Swarm, Strikeback, and Hardshell) in an all-out battle to defeat him. Stegron was knocked unconscious and was taken in by the authorities.\nStegron eventually returned to the Savage Land, where he took over a S.H.I.E.L.D. installation which drew the attention of Thunderstrike, Black Widow, and Black Panther. During the battle over the installation, Stegron was forced into an extremely cold environment and again went into hibernation. Sometime later, Stegron managed to awaken from his slumber and terrorized Roxxon Oil (who was illegally drilling in the Savage Land). Soon, Stegron was opposed by Ka-Zar, Shanna the She-Devil, and Spider-Man. During the battle, the Hulk and a gigantic bird/ox-like creature known as Chtylok arrived and helped Stegron fight Roxxon Oil. The heroes joined forces with Stegron when they realized he was trying to protect the Savage Land. Eventually, Stegron managed to scare the Roxxon agents and was left in peace in the Savage Land.\n\nSometime later, Stegron (reverted to his human form) exiled himself to wander the Arctic Circle when he stumbled upon the Rock of Life. Inspired by its de-evolving abilities, he took it with him back to New York where he slowly began to transform back into his dinosaur form. He then sent the Rock to a friend of his, who then put it on display at the Museum of Natural History in hopes that it would devolve the inhabitants of New York City into prehistoric creatures like himself with him as their leader. As a result, various heroes and villains with connections to the animal kingdom such as Spider-Man, Puma, Black Cat, Vulture, Lizard, Man-Wolf, and Vermin were affected by its power, causing an increase in their savagery. Spider-Man maintained control, and he discovered Stegron's plans at the museum where the two battled. With the help of Mister Fantastic and the Invisible Woman, Spider-Man managed to stop the Rock's powers from reaching others in New York using a piece of his armor. He then beat Stegron into submission. Stegron was then taken into custody by the authorities as the Fantastic Four placed the Rock in a secure vault in the Baxter Building.\n\nStegron again returned to the Savage Land, but shortly after his return, Roxxon Oil attacked again, intent on obtaining vibranium. Stegron was recruited by Ka-Zar and Brainchild to help fight the attackers.\n\nStegron was later seen in the Negative Zone's Prison during the 2008 \"Secret Invasion\" storyline. Somehow, he escaped and returned to the Savage Land. While there he happened upon the starving Devil Dinosaur, who had slumped into a depression after his companion Moon-Boy was kidnapped by S.H.I.E.L.D. agents. Fearing for the survival of the beast (as it was the last of its species), Stegron left the Savage Land without informing Ka-Zar to wage war on S.H.I.E.L.D. Building an army of reanimated dinosaurs, Stegron marched across the US, attacking military base after base, searching for the missing primate. He met little opposition. His only serious challenge coming from attacks by the Fifty State Initiative. Eventually, due to the help of their new recruit Reptil, Stegron was defeated and taken into custody. Learning the motive behind his attack, they agreed to return Moon Boy to the Savage Land to be reunited with his companion.\n\nStegron later collaborates with Sauron in a plan to turn humanity into dinosaurs where they fought Spider-Man and the mutant students from the Jean Grey School for Higher Learning. The duo's plans are unraveled by their own infighting, purposely exacerbated by their mutual crush Shark Girl who caused their powers to neutralize each other.\n\nStegron is later revealed as the mastermind behind a monster attack on a church. After Eddie Brock discovers one of Stegron's dinosaurs and delivers it to Liz Allan, CEO of Alchemax, he heads down the sewers and finds his lair, until he is spotted and captured. Venom then manages to escape with help from Moon Girl and Devil Dinosaur, who were investigating the dinosaur attacks. When Venom and Moon Girl return to the hideout, Stegron takes control of Devil Dinosaur and sends him to attack them. Stegron revealed that he had earlier been hired by Alchemax to find a way to have healing factors placed in humans which led to him doing his dinosaur serum experiments on homeless people and wild animals. Before Stegron can dump the dinosaur serum into the water supply, Venom and Moon Girl worked together to free Devil Dinosaur from Stegron's control and defeat Stegron who was placed in Alchemax's custody. Though his Dinosaur People creations still resided underground.\n\nStegron has superhuman strength, speed, stamina, and durability. Stegron possesses a prehensile tail, which he can use as a weapon or to grasp items, as well as sharp claws and teeth. His skin is very durable and is virtually bulletproof. Stegron also has the mental ability to control or manipulate any dinosaur in an unknown area around him. He has exhibited the power to control or manipulate the reptilian part of the brain in any life form.\n\nDuring their ill-fated alliance, Sauron granted Stegron the ability to drain life force from others through physical contact.\n\nLike reptiles, Stegron is vulnerable to cold temperatures.\n\nIn the \"Marvel Adventures\" universe, the Avengers encounter Stegron in the Savage Land.\n\nDuring the 2015 \"Secret Wars\" storyline, a variation of Stegron lives in the Battleworld domain of Spider-Island. When Vincent Stegron is infected by the Spider Queen's Spider Virus, he is inducted into her Brain Trust. This lasts until Agent Venom and his Resistance attacks their base, where Agent Venom gives Vincent Stegron a serum that transforms him into Stegron, as he sides with the Resistance. Stegron later works with Iron Goblin on a retro-generation ray as the Resistance had to relocate to Avengers Mansion. Stegron later breaks into the American Museum of Natural History, where he uses the retro-generation ray on the dinosaur remains, bringing the dinosaurs there back to life. After Agent Venom and his symbiote sacrifice their lives to get the Spider Queen to fall into Columbus Circle, Stegron and his fellow dinosaurs eat her. Some days later, Stegron joins the re-assembled Avengers, whose headquarters he assists in repairing. He is present when Dino-Thor swears Spider-Man in as the new Baron of Spider-Island.\n\nStegron appears in \"\". He is seen in Spec-Ops #21 where he is on the High Evolutionary's side at the time when he was in a power struggle against Sauron and A.I.M. in the Savage Land.\n\nStegron appears in issue 6 of \"Super Hero Squad\" (based on \"The Super Hero Squad Show\"). He is featured as an archaeologist who is turned into Stegron by an Infinity Fractal.\n\n"}
{"id": "467899", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=467899", "title": "Systems biology", "text": "Systems biology\n\nSystems biology is the computational and mathematical modeling of complex biological systems. It is a biology-based interdisciplinary field of study that focuses on complex interactions within biological systems, using a holistic approach (holism instead of the more traditional reductionism) to biological research.\n\nParticularly from year 2000 onwards, the concept has been used widely in biology in a variety of contexts. The Human Genome Project is an example of applied systems thinking in biology which has led to new, collaborative ways of working on problems in the biological field of genetics. One of the aims of systems biology is to model and discover emergent properties, properties of cells, tissues and organisms functioning as a system whose theoretical description is only possible using techniques of systems biology. These typically involve metabolic networks or cell signaling networks.\n\nSystems biology can be considered from a number of different aspects:\n\n\n\nThis variety of viewpoints is illustrative of the fact that systems biology refers to a cluster of peripherally overlapping concepts rather than a single well-delineated field. However, the term has widespread currency and popularity as of 2007, with chairs and institutes of systems biology proliferating worldwide.\n\nSystems biology finds its roots in:\n\nOne of the theorists who can be seen as one of the precursors of systems biology is Ludwig von Bertalanffy with his general systems theory. One of the first numerical simulations in cell biology was published in 1952 by the British neurophysiologists and Nobel prize winners Alan Lloyd Hodgkin and Andrew Fielding Huxley, who constructed a mathematical model that explained the action potential propagating along the axon of a neuronal cell. Their model described a cellular function emerging from the interaction between two different molecular components, a potassium and a sodium channel, and can therefore be seen as the beginning of computational systems biology. Also in 1952, Alan Turing published The Chemical Basis of Morphogenesis, describing how non-uniformity could arise in an initially homogeneous biological system.\n\nIn 1960, Denis Noble developed the first computer model of the heart pacemaker.\n\nThe formal study of systems biology, as a distinct discipline, was launched by systems theorist Mihajlo Mesarovic in 1966 with an international symposium at the Case Institute of Technology in Cleveland, Ohio, titled \"Systems Theory and Biology\".\n\nThe 1960s and 1970s saw the development of several approaches to study complex molecular systems, such as the metabolic control analysis and the biochemical systems theory. The successes of molecular biology throughout the 1980s, coupled with a skepticism toward theoretical biology, that then promised more than it achieved, caused the quantitative modeling of biological processes to become a somewhat minor field.\n\nHowever, the birth of functional genomics in the 1990s meant that large quantities of high-quality data became available, while the computing power exploded, making more realistic models possible. In 1992, then 1994, serial articles on systems medicine, systems genetics, and systems biological engineering by B. J. Zeng was published in China and was giving a lecture on biosystems theory and systems-approach research at the First International Conference on Transgenic Animals, Beijing, 1996. In 1997, the group of Masaru Tomita published the first quantitative model of the metabolism of a whole (hypothetical) cell.\n\nAround the year 2000, after Institutes of Systems Biology were established in Seattle and Tokyo, systems biology emerged as a movement in its own right, spurred on by the completion of various genome projects, the large increase in data from the omics (e.g., genomics and proteomics) and the accompanying advances in high-throughput experiments and bioinformatics. Shortly afterwards, the first departments wholly devoted to systems biology were founded (for example, the Department of Systems Biology at Harvard Medical School ).\n\nIn 2003, work at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology was begun on CytoSolve, a method to model the whole cell by dynamically integrating multiple molecular pathway models. Since then, various research institutes dedicated to systems biology have been developed. For example, the NIGMS of NIH established a project grant that is currently supporting over ten systems biology centers in the United States. As of summer 2006, due to a shortage of people in systems biology several doctoral training programs in systems biology have been established in many parts of the world. In that same year, the National Science Foundation (NSF) put forward a grand challenge for systems biology in the 21st century to build a mathematical model of the whole cell. In 2012 the first whole-cell model of Mycoplasma Genitalium was achieved by the Karr Laboratory at the Mount Sinai School of Medicine in New York. The whole-cell model is able to predict viability of M. Genitalium cells in response to genetic mutations.\n\nAn important milestone in the development of systems biology has become the international project Physiome.\n\nAccording to the interpretation of Systems Biology as the ability to obtain, integrate and analyze complex data sets from multiple experimental sources using interdisciplinary tools, some typical technology platforms are:\nIn addition to the identification and quantification of the above given molecules further techniques analyze the dynamics and interactions within a cell. This includes:\n\nCancer systems biology is an example of the systems biology approach, which can be distinguished by the specific object of study (tumorigenesis and treatment of cancer). It works with the specific data (patient samples, high-throughput data with particular attention to characterizing cancer genome in patient tumour samples) and tools (immortalized cancer cell lines, mouse models of tumorigenesis, xenograft models, high-throughput sequencing methods, siRNA-based gene knocking down high-throughput screenings, computational modeling of the consequences of somatic mutations and genome instability). The long-term objective of the systems biology of cancer is ability to better diagnose cancer, classify it and better predict the outcome of a suggested treatment, which is a basis for personalized cancer medicine and virtual cancer patient in more distant prospective. Significant efforts in computational systems biology of cancer have been made in creating realistic multi-scale \"in silico\" models of various tumours.\n\nThe investigations are frequently combined with large-scale perturbation methods, including gene-based (RNAi, mis-expression of wild type and mutant genes) and chemical approaches using small molecule libraries. Robots and automated sensors enable such large-scale experimentation and data acquisition. These technologies are still emerging and many face problems that the larger the quantity of data produced, the lower the quality. A wide variety of quantitative scientists (computational biologists, statisticians, mathematicians, computer scientists and physicists) are working to improve the quality of these approaches and to create, refine, and retest the models to accurately reflect observations.\n\nThe systems biology approach often involves the development of mechanistic models, such as the reconstruction of dynamic systems from the quantitative properties of their elementary building blocks. For instance, a cellular network can be modelled mathematically using methods coming from chemical kinetics and control theory. Due to the large number of parameters, variables and constraints in cellular networks, numerical and computational techniques are often used (e.g., flux balance analysis).\n\nOther aspects of computer science, informatics, and statistics are also used in systems biology. These include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29238", "title": "Systems theory", "text": "Systems theory\n\nSystems theory is the interdisciplinary study of systems. A system is a cohesive conglomeration of interrelated and interdependent parts that is either natural or man-made. Every system is delineated by its spatial and temporal boundaries, surrounded and influenced by its environment, described by its structure and purpose or nature and expressed in its functioning. In terms of its effects, a system can be more than the sum of its parts if it expresses synergy or emergent behavior. Changing one part of the system usually affects other parts and the whole system, with predictable patterns of behavior. For systems that are self-learning and self-adapting, the positive growth and adaptation depend upon how well the system is adjusted with its environment. Some systems function mainly to support other systems by aiding in the maintenance of the other system to prevent failure. The goal of systems theory is systematically discovering a system's dynamics, constraints, conditions and elucidating principles (purpose, measure, methods, tools, etc.) that can be discerned and applied to systems at every level of nesting, and in every field for achieving optimized equifinality.\n\nGeneral systems theory is about broadly applicable concepts and principles, as opposed to concepts and principles applicable to one domain of knowledge. It distinguishes dynamic or active systems from static or passive systems. Active systems are activity structures or components that interact in behaviours and processes. Passive systems are structures and components that are being processed. E.g. a program is passive when it is a disc file and active when it runs in memory. The field is related to systems thinking and systems engineering.\n\n\nThe term \"general systems theory\" originates from Bertalanffy's general systems theory (GST). His ideas were adopted by others including Kenneth E. Boulding, William Ross Ashby and Anatol Rapoport working in mathematics, psychology, biology, game theory and social network analysis.\n\nSociological systems thinking started earlier, in the 19th century. Stichweh states: \"... Since its beginnings the social sciences were an important part of the establishment of systems theory... the two most influential suggestions were the comprehensive sociological versions of systems theory which were proposed by Talcott Parsons since the 1950s and by Niklas Luhmann since the 1970s.\" References include Parsons' action theory and Luhmann's social systems theory.\n\nContemporary ideas from systems theory have grown with diverse areas, exemplified by the work of biologist Ludwig von Bertalanffy, linguist Béla H. Bánáthy, sociologist Talcott Parsons, ecological systems with Howard T. Odum, Eugene Odum and Fritjof Capra, organizational theory and management with individuals such as Peter Senge, interdisciplinary study with areas like Human Resource Development from the work of Richard A. Swanson, and insights from educators such as Debora Hammond and Alfonso Montuori. As a transdisciplinary, interdisciplinary and multiperspectival domain, the area brings together principles and concepts from ontology, philosophy of science, physics, computer science, biology and engineering as well as geography, sociology, political science, psychotherapy (within family systems therapy) and economics among others. Systems theory thus serves as a bridge for interdisciplinary dialogue between autonomous areas of study as well as within the area of systems science itself.\n\nIn this respect, with the possibility of misinterpretations, von Bertalanffy believed a general theory of systems \"should be an important regulative device in science\", to guard against superficial analogies that \"are useless in science and harmful in their practical consequences\". Others remain closer to the direct systems concepts developed by the original theorists. For example, Ilya Prigogine, of the Center for Complex Quantum Systems at the University of Texas, Austin, has studied emergent properties, suggesting that they offer analogues for living systems. The theories of autopoiesis of Francisco Varela and Humberto Maturana represent further developments in this field. Important names in contemporary systems science include Russell Ackoff, Ruzena Bajcsy, Béla H. Bánáthy, Gregory Bateson, Anthony Stafford Beer, Peter Checkland, Barbara Grosz, Brian Wilson, Robert L. Flood, Allenna Leonard, Radhika Nagpal, Fritjof Capra, Warren McCulloch, Kathleen Carley, Michael C. Jackson, Katia Sycara, and Edgar Morin among others.\n\nWith the modern foundations for a general theory of systems following World War I, Ervin Laszlo, in the preface for Bertalanffy's book: \"Perspectives on General System Theory\", points out that the translation of \"general system theory\" from German into English has \"wrought a certain amount of havoc\":\n\nA system in this frame of reference can contain regularly interacting or interrelating groups of activities. For example, in noting the influence in organizational psychology as the field evolved from \"an individually oriented industrial psychology to a systems and developmentally oriented organizational psychology\", some theorists recognize that organizations have complex social systems; separating the parts from the whole reduces the overall effectiveness of organizations. This difference, from conventional models that center on individuals, structures, departments and units, separates in part from the whole, instead of recognizing the interdependence between groups of individuals, structures and processes that enable an organization to function. Laszlo explains that the new systems view of organized complexity went \"one step beyond the Newtonian view of organized simplicity\" which reduced the parts from the whole, or understood the whole without relation to the parts. The relationship between organisations and their environments can be seen as the foremost source of complexity and interdependence. In most cases, the whole has properties that cannot be known from analysis of the constituent elements in isolation. Béla H. Bánáthy, who argued—along with the founders of the systems society—that \"the benefit of humankind\" is the purpose of science, has made significant and far-reaching contributions to the area of systems theory. For the Primer Group at ISSS, Bánáthy defines a perspective that iterates this view:\n\nSimilar ideas are found in learning theories that developed from the same fundamental concepts, emphasising how understanding results from knowing concepts both in part and as a whole. In fact, Bertalanffy's organismic psychology paralleled the learning theory of Jean Piaget. Some consider interdisciplinary perspectives critical in breaking away from industrial age models and thinking, wherein history represents history and math represents math, while the arts and sciences specialization remain separate and many treat teaching as behaviorist conditioning. The contemporary work of Peter Senge provides detailed discussion of the commonplace critique of educational systems grounded in conventional assumptions about learning, including the problems with fragmented knowledge and lack of holistic learning from the \"machine-age thinking\" that became a \"model of school separated from daily life\". In this way some systems theorists attempt to provide alternatives to, and evolved ideation from orthodox theories which have grounds in classical assumptions, including individuals such as Max Weber and Émile Durkheim in sociology and Frederick Winslow Taylor in scientific management. The theorists sought holistic methods by developing systems concepts that could integrate with different areas.\n\nSome may view the contradiction of reductionism in conventional theory (which has as its subject a single part) as simply an example of changing assumptions. The emphasis with systems theory shifts from parts to the organization of parts, recognizing interactions of the parts as not static and constant but dynamic processes. Some questioned the conventional closed systems with the development of open systems perspectives. The shift originated from absolute and universal authoritative principles and knowledge to relative and general conceptual and perceptual knowledge and still remains in the tradition of theorists that sought to provide means to organize human life. In other words, theorists rethought the preceding history of ideas; they did not lose them. Mechanistic thinking was particularly critiqued, especially the industrial-age mechanistic metaphor for the mind from interpretations of Newtonian mechanics by Enlightenment philosophers and later psychologists that laid the foundations of modern organizational theory and management by the late 19th century.\n\nSystem dynamics is an approach to understanding the nonlinear behaviour of complex systems over time using stocks, flows, internal feedback loops, and time delays.\n\nSystems biology is a movement that draws on several trends in bioscience research. Proponents describe systems biology as a biology-based inter-disciplinary study field that focuses on complex interactions in biological systems, claiming that it uses a new perspective (holism instead of reduction). Particularly from the year 2000 onwards, the biosciences use the term widely and in a variety of contexts. An often stated ambition of systems biology is the modelling and discovery of emergent properties which represents properties of a system whose theoretical description requires the only possible useful techniques to fall under the remit of systems biology. It is thought that Ludwig von Bertalanffy may have created the term systems biology in 1928.\n\nSystems ecology is an interdisciplinary field of ecology, a subset of Earth system science, that takes a holistic approach to the study of ecological systems, especially ecosystems. Systems ecology can be seen as an application of general systems theory to ecology. Central to the systems ecology approach is the idea that an ecosystem is a complex system exhibiting emergent properties. Systems ecology focuses on interactions and transactions within and between biological and ecological systems, and is especially concerned with the way the functioning of ecosystems can be influenced by human interventions. It uses and extends concepts from thermodynamics and develops other macroscopic descriptions of complex systems.\n\nSystems engineering is an interdisciplinary approach and means for enabling the realisation and deployment of successful systems. It can be viewed as the application of engineering techniques to the engineering of systems, as well as the application of a systems approach to engineering efforts. Systems engineering integrates other disciplines and specialty groups into a team effort, forming a structured development process that proceeds from concept to production to operation and disposal. Systems engineering considers both the business and the technical needs of all customers, with the goal of providing a quality product that meets the user's needs.\n\nSystems psychology is a branch of psychology that studies human behaviour and experience in complex systems. It received inspiration from systems theory and systems thinking, as well as the basics of theoretical work from Roger Barker, Gregory Bateson, Humberto Maturana and others. It makes an approach in psychology in which groups and individuals receive consideration as systems in homeostasis. Systems psychology \"includes the domain of engineering psychology, but in addition seems more concerned with societal systems and with the study of motivational, affective, cognitive and group behavior that holds the name engineering psychology.\" In systems psychology, \"characteristics of organizational behaviour, for example individual needs, rewards, expectations, and attributes of the people interacting with the systems, considers this process in order to create an effective system\".\n\nWhether considering the first systems of written communication with Sumerian cuneiform to Mayan numerals, or the feats of engineering with the Egyptian pyramids, systems thinking can date back to antiquity. Differentiated from Western rationalist traditions of philosophy, C. West Churchman often identified with the I Ching as a systems approach sharing a frame of reference similar to pre-Socratic philosophy and Heraclitus. Von Bertalanffy traced systems concepts to the philosophy of G.W. Leibniz and Nicholas of Cusa's \"coincidentia oppositorum\". While modern systems can seem considerably more complicated, today's systems may embed themselves in history.\n\nFigures like James Joule and Sadi Carnot represent an important step to introduce the \"systems approach\" into the (rationalist) hard sciences of the 19th century, also known as the energy transformation. Then, the thermodynamics of this century, by Rudolf Clausius, Josiah Gibbs and others, established the \"system\" reference model as a formal scientific object.\n\nThe Society for General Systems Research specifically catalyzed systems theory as an area of study, which developed following the World Wars from the work of Ludwig von Bertalanffy, Anatol Rapoport, Kenneth E. Boulding, William Ross Ashby, Margaret Mead, Gregory Bateson, C. West Churchman and others in the 1950s, had specifically catalyzed by collaboration in. Cognizant of advances in science that questioned classical assumptions in the organizational sciences, Bertalanffy's idea to develop a theory of systems began as early as the interwar period, publishing \"An Outline for General Systems Theory\" in the \"British Journal for the Philosophy of Science\", Vol 1, No. 2, by 1950. Where assumptions in Western science from Greek thought with Plato and Aristotle to Newton's \"Principia\" have historically influenced all areas from the hard to social sciences (see David Easton's seminal development of the \"political system\" as an analytical construct), the original theorists explored the implications of twentieth century advances in terms of systems.\n\nPeople have studied subjects like complexity, self-organization, connectionism and adaptive systems in the 1940s and 1950s. In fields like cybernetics, researchers such as Norbert Wiener, William Ross Ashby, John von Neumann and Heinz von Foerster, examined complex systems mathematically. John von Neumann discovered cellular automata and self-reproducing systems, again with only pencil and paper. Aleksandr Lyapunov and Jules Henri Poincaré worked on the foundations of chaos theory without any computer at all. At the same time Howard T. Odum, known as a radiation ecologist, recognized that the study of general systems required a language that could depict energetics, thermodynamics and kinetics at any system scale. Odum developed a general system, or universal language, based on the circuit language of electronics, to fulfill this role, known as the Energy Systems Language. Between 1929-1951, Robert Maynard Hutchins at the University of Chicago had undertaken efforts to encourage innovation and interdisciplinary research in the social sciences, aided by the Ford Foundation with the interdisciplinary Division of the Social Sciences established in 1931. Numerous scholars had actively engaged in these ideas before (Tectology by Alexander Bogdanov, published in 1912-1917, is a remarkable example), but in 1937, von Bertalanffy presented the general theory of systems at a conference at the University of Chicago.\n\nThe systems view was based on several fundamental ideas. First, all phenomena can be viewed as a web of relationships among elements, or a system. Second, all systems, whether electrical, biological, or social, have common patterns, behaviors, and properties that the observer can analyze and use to develop greater insight into the behavior of complex phenomena and to move closer toward a unity of the sciences. System philosophy, methodology and application are complementary to this science. By 1956, theorists established the Society for General Systems Research, which they renamed the International Society for Systems Science in 1988. The Cold War affected the research project for systems theory in ways that sorely disappointed many of the seminal theorists. Some began to recognize that theories defined in association with systems theory had deviated from the initial General Systems Theory (GST) view. The economist Kenneth Boulding, an early researcher in systems theory, had concerns over the manipulation of systems concepts. Boulding concluded from the effects of the Cold War that abuses of power always prove consequential and that systems theory might address such issues. Since the end of the Cold War, a renewed interest in systems theory emerged, combined with efforts to strengthen an ethical view on the subject.\n\nMany early systems theorists aimed at finding a general systems theory that could explain all systems in all fields of science. The term goes back to Bertalanffy's book titled \"General System theory: Foundations, Development, Applications\" from 1968. He developed the \"allgemeine Systemlehre\" (general systems theory) first via lectures beginning in 1937 and then via publications beginning in 1946.\n\nVon Bertalanffy's objective was to bring together under one heading the organismic science he had observed in his work as a biologist. His desire was to use the word \"system\" for those principles that are common to systems in general. In GST, he writes:\n\nErvin Laszlo in the preface of von Bertalanffy's book \"Perspectives on General System Theory\":\n\nLudwig von Bertalanffy outlines systems inquiry into three major domains: Philosophy, Science, and Technology. In his work with the Primer Group, Béla H. Bánáthy generalized the domains into four integratable domains of systemic inquiry:\n\nThese operate in a recursive relationship, he explained. Integrating Philosophy and Theory as Knowledge, and Method and Application as action, Systems Inquiry then is knowledgeable action.\n\nCybernetics is the study of the communication and control of regulatory feedback both in living and lifeless systems (organisms, organizations, machines), and in combinations of those. Its focus is how anything (digital, mechanical or biological) controls its behavior, processes information, reacts to information, and changes or can be changed to better accomplish those three primary tasks.\n\nThe terms \"systems theory\" and \"cybernetics\" have been widely used as synonyms. Some authors use the term \"cybernetic\" systems to denote a proper subset of the class of general systems, namely those systems that include feedback loops. However Gordon Pask's differences of eternal interacting actor loops (that produce finite products) makes general systems a proper subset of cybernetics. According to Jackson (2000), von Bertalanffy promoted an embryonic form of general system theory (GST) as early as the 1920s and 1930s but it was not until the early 1950s it became more widely known in scientific circles.\n\nThreads of cybernetics began in the late 1800s that led toward the publishing of seminal works (e.g., Wiener's \"Cybernetics\" in 1948 and von Bertalanffy's \"General Systems Theory\" in 1968). Cybernetics arose more from engineering fields and GST from biology. If anything it appears that although the two probably mutually influenced each other, cybernetics had the greater influence. Von Bertalanffy (1969) specifically makes the point of distinguishing between the areas in noting the influence of cybernetics: \"Systems theory is frequently identified with cybernetics and control theory. This again is incorrect. Cybernetics as the theory of control mechanisms in technology and nature is founded on the concepts of information and feedback, but as part of a general theory of systems;\" then reiterates: \"the model is of wide application but should not be identified with 'systems theory' in general\", and that \"warning is necessary against its incautious expansion to fields for which its concepts are not made.\" (17-23). Jackson (2000) also claims von Bertalanffy was informed by Alexander Bogdanov's three volume \"Tectology\" that was published in Russia between 1912 and 1917, and was translated into German in 1928. He also states it is clear to Gorelik (1975) that the \"conceptual part\" of general system theory (GST) had first been put in place by Bogdanov. The similar position is held by Mattessich (1978) and Capra (1996). Ludwig von Bertalanffy never even mentioned Bogdanov in his works, which Capra (1996) finds \"surprising\".\n\nCybernetics, catastrophe theory, chaos theory and complexity theory have the common goal to explain complex systems that consist of a large number of mutually interacting and interrelated parts in terms of those interactions. Cellular automata (CA), neural networks (NN), artificial intelligence (AI), and artificial life (ALife) are related fields, but they do not try to describe general (universal) complex (singular) systems. The best context to compare the different \"C\"-Theories about complex systems is historical, which emphasizes different tools and methodologies, from pure mathematics in the beginning to pure computer science now. Since the beginning of chaos theory when Edward Lorenz accidentally discovered a strange attractor with his computer, computers have become an indispensable source of information. One could not imagine the study of complex systems without the use of computers today.\n\nComplex adaptive systems (CAS) are special cases of complex systems. They are \"complex\" in that they are diverse and composed of multiple, interconnected elements; they are \"adaptive\" in that they have the capacity to change and learn from experience. In contrast to control systems in which negative feedback dampens and reverses disequilibria, CAS are often subject to positive feedback, which magnifies and perpetuates changes, converting local irregularities into global features. Another mechanism, Dual-phase evolution arises when connections between elements repeatedly change, shifting the system between phases of variation and selection that reshape the system. Differently from Beer Management Cybernetics, Cultural Agency Theory (CAT) provides a modelling approach to explore predefined contexts and can be adapted to reflect those contexts.\n\nThe term \"complex adaptive system\" was coined at the interdisciplinary Santa Fe Institute (SFI), by John H. Holland, Murray Gell-Mann and others. An alternative conception of complex adaptive (and learning) systems, methodologically at the interface between natural and social science, has been presented by Kristo Ivanov in terms of hypersystems. This concept intends to offer a theoretical basis for understanding and implementing participation of \"users\", decisions makers, designers and affected actors, in the development or maintenance of self-learning systems.\n\n\n\n\nOrganizations\n"}
{"id": "58702452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58702452", "title": "Techno-economic assessment", "text": "Techno-economic assessment\n\nTechno-economic assessment (abbreviated TEA) is a methodology framework to analyze the technical and economic performance of a process, product or service. TEA normally combines process modeling, engineering design and economic evaluation.\n\nExamples of applications of TEA include the evaluation of the economic feasibility of a specific project, a forecast on the likelihood of the deployment of a technology at certain scale, or a comparison of the economic merit of different technological options that provide the same service. \n"}
{"id": "29874969", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29874969", "title": "Thallophyca", "text": "Thallophyca\n\nThallophyca is a non-mineralized Ediacarian alga that probably dwelt on the sea floor. Its thallus is differentiated into a cortex and a medulla. Possible reproductive structures have been identified.\n"}
{"id": "32300415", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32300415", "title": "The Politics of Nonviolent Action", "text": "The Politics of Nonviolent Action\n\nThe Politics of Nonviolent Action is a three-volume political science book by Gene Sharp, originally published in the United States in 1973. Sharp is one of the most influential theoreticians of nonviolent action, and his publications have been influential in struggles around the world. This book contains his foundational analyses of the nature of political power, and of the methods and dynamics of nonviolent action. It represents a \"thorough revision and rewriting\" of the author's 1968 doctoral thesis at Oxford University. The book has been reviewed in professional journals and newspapers, and is mentioned on many contemporary websites. It has been fully translated into Italian and partially translated into several other languages.\n\nThe three volumes or \"parts\" of \"The Politics of Nonviolent Action\" contain a total of 14 chapters, as well as a preface by the author, and an introduction by Thomas C. Schelling. Each part begins with an introduction by the author. The first volume or \"part\" addresses the theory of power that implicitly or explicitly underlies nonviolent action; Volume 2 offers a detailed analysis of the \"methods\" of nonviolent action; and the Volume 3 analyzes the \"dynamics\" of nonviolent action.\n\nChapter 1, \"The Nature and Control of Political Power\", explains that, \nalthough rarely articulated, there are \"basically... two views of the nature of power.\" The \"monolith theory\" views people as dependent upon the good will of their governments, whereas nonviolent action is grounded in the converse \"pluralistic-dependency theory\" that views government as \"dependent on the people's good will, decisions and support,\" a view that Sharp argues is \"sounder and more accurate.\" Sharp argues that \"political power is not intrinsic to the power-holder,\" but flows from outside sources that include perceptions of authority, available human resources; skills and knowledge; material resources; and intangible psychological and ideological factors. These sources all depend upon obedience, which arises for \"various and multiple\" reasons that include habit, fear of sanctions, perceived moral obligation, psychological identification with the ruler, zones of indifference, and absence of self-confidence among subjects. Obedience is essentially voluntary, and consent can be withdrawn.\n\nNext, \"Nonviolent Action: An Active Technique of Struggle\" (chapter 2) explains that nonviolent action may be used for a diverse mixture of motives that are religious, ethical, moral, or based on expediency. \"Passivity, submission, cowardice [have] nothing to do with the nonviolent technique,\" which is correctly understood as \"\"one\" type of \"active\" response.\" Nonviolence has suffered scholarly neglect. Nonviolence may involve both \"acts of omission\" and \"acts of commission\", does not rely solely on persuading the opponent, and \"does not depend on the assumption that man is inherently 'good'.\" These and other characteristics of nonviolence are explained and illustrates through examples from ancient Rome, colonial United States, Tsarist Russia, Soviet Russia, Nazi Germany, Latin America, India, Czeschoslavakia, and the Southern United States.\n\nVolume 2 (chapters 3 to 8) contains a detailed listing and description of specific methods of nonviolent action, such as boycotts, strikes, and sit-ins. Such a listing, Sharp says, \"may assist actionists in the selection of methods most appropriate for use in a particular situation... [or] give researchers and persons evaluating the political potentialities of the nonviolent technique a greater grasp of its armory of methods of struggle.\" Nearly 200 methods are listed in the table of contents, and Sharp groups them into three broad categories, \"protest and persuasion\" (ch. 3), \"noncooperation\" (chs. 4-7), and \"intervention\" (ch. 8), in terms of how they relate to the dynamics of nonviolent action (Vol. 3). These categories \"ought not to be regarded as rigid, but simply as generally valid.\" The methods are summarized in the adjacent table.\n\nThe third volume focuses on the dynamics of nonviolent action, which always \"involves continuous change in the various influences and forces which operate in that process and are constantly influencing each other. No discussion in static terms... can be valid.\" It opens with Chapter 9, \"Laying the Groundwork for Nonviolent Action\", with subsections addressing such issues as casting off fear, the social sources of power changes, leadership needs, openness and secrecy, investigation, negotiations, generating \"cause-consciousness.\" It also describes key elements of nonviolent strategy and tactics, pertaining to issues such as initiative, timing, numbers and strength, psychological elements, application of an Indirect approach, the choice of weapons (as described in Vol. 2), and the issuance of an ultimatum.\n\nChapter 10 describes how the onset of nonviolent action is likely to bring various types of oppression, and reviews examples and approaches for withstanding increasing repression, which is imperative, because \"without willingness to face repression... the nonviolent action movement cannot hope to succeed.\" Chapter 11 describes methods for maintaining the nonviolent group's solidarity, such as \"Maintaining rapport\" through regular mass meetings. Chapter 11 also extensively analyzes the threats against and needs for ongoing adherence to nonviolent discipline, \"in order to bring into operation the changes that will alter relationships and achieve [the] objectives,\" even as \"the opponent... tries to provoke them to commit violence - with which he could deal more effectively.\"\n\nChapter 12 covers \"political \"jiu-jitsu\"... one of the special processes by which nonviolent action deals with violent repression.\" More specifically:\n\nBy combining nonviolent discipline with solidarity and persistence in struggle, the nonviolent actionists cause the violence of the opponent's repression to be exposed in the worst possible light. This, in turn, may lead to shifts in opinion and then to shifts in power relationships favorable to the nonviolent group. These shifts result from withdrawal of support for the opponent and the grant of support to the nonviolent actionists. \n\nThis chapter provides numerous historical examples of such political \"jiu-jitsu\", and analyzes such factors as the impact of third party opinion and international indignation, arousing dissent and opposition in the opponent's own camp, and increasing support and participation from the grievance group.\n\n\"Three Ways Success May Be Achieved\" (Chapter 13) describes and analyzes \"conversion\", \"accommodation\", and \"nonviolent coercion\". These represent \"three broad processes, or mechanisms, by which the complicated forces utilized and produced by nonviolent action influence the opponent and his capacity for action and thereby perhaps bring success to the cause of the grievance group\": \n\nIn \"conversion\" the opponent has been inwardly changed so that he wants to make the changes desired by the nonviolent actionists. In \"accommodation\", the opponent does not agree with the changes... and he could continue the struggle... but... has concluded that it is best to grant some or all of the demands... In \"nonviolent coercion\" the opponent has not changed his mind on the issues and wants to \"continue\" the struggle, but is \"unable\" to do so; the sources of his power and means of control have been taken away from him without the use of violence . This may have been done by the nonviolent group or by the opposition and noncooperation among his own group (as, mutiny of his troops), or some combination of these. \n\nFinally, \"The Redistribution of Power\" (Chapter 14) describes how using the nonviolent technique is likely to affect the nonviolent group, and the distribution of power between the contenders and in the larger society or system. Such effects may include the ending of submissiveness, increases in hope, effects on aggression, masculinity, crime and violence, increased group unity, and the decentralization of power. \"Nonviolent action appears by its very nature to contribute to the diffusion of effective power throughout the society\" due in part to the enhanced self-reliance of those using the technique.\n\nReviews have appeared in the \n\"Armed Forces & Society\",\n\"International Organization\",\n\"Social Forces\", \n\"Social Work\",\n\"The Annals of the American Academy of Political and Social Science\",\n\"Ethics\",\n\"American Journal of Sociology\",\n\"The Journal of Developing Areas\",\n\"The Western Political Quarterly\",\n\"Political Theory\",\nThe \"Bay State Banner\",\nand elsewhere.\n\nIn \"Armed Forces & Society\", Kenneth Boulding described the book as \"monumental,\" writing that \"there are some works which bear the unmistakable stamp of the classic... and this work is a good candidate.\" Sharp, he said, \"has been called the \"Machiavelli of nonviolence\" and the \"Clausewitz of nonviolent warfare\" [and] the comparisons are by no means unjust.\" The book \"reveals a large but previously mostly unnoticed segment of human action relationship which would very properly be described as 'nonviolent warfare.'\" Boulding asserted several parallels with a seminal work in his own field, economics, explaining that\nthis volume... reminds one of <nowiki>[</nowiki>Adam Smith's<nowiki>]</nowiki> \"The Wealth of Nations\". There is a single theme of immense importance to society played in innumerable variations throughout the whole work. There is a wealth of historical illustration and detail. There is a distinct view of society as a whole seen perhaps from a somewhat unfamiliar angle. And there is a wholly honorable passion for human betterment through intellectual clarification.\n\nBoulding stated that if a key word for economics is \"exchange,\" then the key word for nonviolent action is \"disobedience\" - \"One might almost call Gene Sharp's book, therefore... the discovery of disobedience, especially of large-scale disobedience... nonviolent action is concerned with the institutionalization of a threat-defiance system.\" A key to this process, Boulding argues, is the \"dynamics of legitimacy... [the] public denial of the legitimacy of some command,\" which Sharp \"hints at many times,\" although Sharp \"never quite works [it] out in detail.\"\nBoulding described Part II as \"in some ways... the meatiest and richest part of the work,\" although he noted that Sharp's examples are drawn from \"quite restricted range\" of human history:\n\nThere must be many examples from Chinese history; Latin America is hardly mentioned; and the European middle ages, with its extraordinary phenomenon of the \"Truce of God,\" receives hardly a mention. Nevertheless, Sharp's examples are broad and wide and illustrate the universality and significance of this phenomenon, which, simply because it has not had a name, has been grossly neglected by conventional historians.\n\nBoulding also reported some ways that Sharp's theoretical analysis seemed to be deficient, \"even in terms of what might be called 'classical' or Gandhian theories of nonviolence.\" The book's analysis\n\nneglects the importance of \"Satyagraha\" or \"Truth-grasping,\" that is, the appeal of nonviolent action to some objective truth, even an objective moral truth, as the basic source of its legitimacy. In this sense nonviolent action is closer to the spirit of science than it is to the spirit of war, in that it is concerned... that truth should prevail no matter who wins. Sharp, perhaps in too great a reaction to the accusations of sentimental pacifism sometimes brought against nonviolence, has stressed the conflictual aspects of it perhaps to the exclusion of its integrative aspects.\"\nIn \"International Organization\", Bleicher's 21-page review stated that \"What Professor Sharp... has demonstrated is that our understanding of the dependency of governments upon the\ncontinuing consent of the governed can be translated into the development of nonviolent action as a strategy of change that is effective outside of established institutional arrangements and yet operates without the use of force.\" He wrote that Sharp \n\nhas exposed the inadequacy of assuming the monolithic character of the nation state in international relations theory. Recognition of nonviolent action as a tool in the hands of governments and citizens to influence the policies of other nations and of international organizations calls for a fundamental re-evaluation of the critical parameters in the study and conduct of international relations.\n\nBleicher stated that the \"full utilization of this new understanding requires an expansion of the horizons of scholars and policy makers in the international arena, the collection and application of new data in the evaluation of international relations, and the development of new theoretical constructs.\" He warned that if we do not develop a better understanding of phenomenon related to nonviolence, we face the danger that we will be progressively less able to... design policies and institutions that can cope with the future.\"\n\nIn \"Political Theory\", Carl J. Friedrich wrote that Sharp considers his view of power as \"much more original than it is,\" and that the reviewer [Friedrich] found it \"exasperating to try and follow arguments with the drift of which he definitely sympathized, except for their alleged novelty.\" In particular, Sharp does not\n\nrelate [his view of power] to such classics as Charles Merriam's magisterial treatment of power, or even Bertrand Russell's journalistic book on the subject. He seems unaware of the reviewer's [Friedrich's] analysis of many years ago, in which the distinction between two views of power, and the dependence of power on the cooperation of those over whom it is wielded, was analytically developed, and its root in the classics was shown.\n\nFriedrich also stated that a \"fundamental weakness\" of Sharp's argument was his understanding of violence \"as physical violence,\" since \"some of the most vicious forms of coercion are psychic.\" Furthermore \"According to Sharp, violence by definition excludes demolition and destruction of things, such as machinery, buildings and the like. Hence, according to him, much sabotage is not violent; clearly at this point Sharp deviates markedly from popular usage.\" Due to the \"illusory\" nature of the distinction based on physical violence alone, Sharp is often \"confused,\" although \"many thoughtful arguments are offered.\" Friedrich concluded that \"the topic of how to avoid violence in political conflicts is an important one, the treatment given here is learned, but not very clear, and the results not conclusive,\" but that the book was a \"timely one\" that he hoped it will \"lead to further more searching studies.\"\n\nIn \"The Western Political Quarterly\", H. L. Nieburg wrote that he \"would like to see the work cut down to 125 pages and published in paperback as a token of new life for insurgency politics. But, this... should not deter one from the duty to welcome a monumental, competent, and sometimes exciting, work of scholarship.\"\n\nIn \"Social Work\", Harry Specht stated that \"Sharp has performed a useful service for students of community organizing by producing an encyclopedic description of nonviolent action,\" and that \"by shear weight of detail, the reader comes to recognize that nonviolent action has been far more pervasive than many assume.\" Specht stated that the books flaws included \"repetition and excessive detail,\" and that the book \"seems to imply that nonviolent action is usually undertaken by the oppressed against the state and that it is usually in the cause of positive social change. But... for example, I have just read of two massive nonviolent demonstrations in Boston, one for and the other against integration of the public schools.\" Specht described an \"absence of a clear theoretical framework... it does not illuminate such central questions as... Why is nonviolent action used in some cases and not in others? Why does it work in some cases and not in others?\" The book is also \"rich with writings on social movements and thin on theorists such as Kenneth Boulding, Amitai Etzioni, Jerome Skolnick, and Ralf Dahrendorf - who have dealt with conflict and violence.\" Still, \"Sharp's work is an impressive accomplishment that will be welcomed as an important addition to the literature of community organizing.\"\n\nThe book has been mentioned in various other publications, including \n\"Utne\",\nthe \"American Conservative\",\nthe CNN website,\nand elsewhere.\n\nThe \"Politics of Nonviolent Action\" originally appeared in 3 volumes in English in 1973, and has subsequently been translated fully or partially into several other languages. The English language edition was published by Porter Sargent in 3 volumes entitled: 1. \"Power and struggle\", 2. \"The methods of nonviolent action\", and 3. \"The dynamics of nonviolent action\". The respective citations of the 3-volume set and of each individual volume are:\n\n\nIn 2013, Sharp published a 143-page English language condensation:\n\nFull or partial non-English translations have appeared in languages that include Arabic, Dutch, Italian, Polish, and Spanish:\n\n"}
{"id": "58087459", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58087459", "title": "Tullio Vinay", "text": "Tullio Vinay\n\nTullio Vinay is a Waldensian pastor and theologian, as well as an Italian politician, who was born in The Spezia on May 13, 1909 and died in Rome on September 2, 1996. Recognized as a Righteous Among the Nations and founder of two important church institutions, he is one of the leading figures of Italian Protestantism in the 20th century.\n\nTullio Vinay is the son of a teacher, pastor and theologian of the Waldensian Evangelical Church. He grew up in Trieste and Torre Pellice and studied Protestant theology in Rome at the Waldensian Faculty of Theology and then at Edinburgh University.\n\nFrom his consecration in 1934 until 1946, he was pastor of the Evangelical Waldensian Church of Florence. During this period, he launched into multiple anti-fascist activities and managed to save dozens of Jews who hid in a secret apartment within the headquarters of the Waldensian church Via Manzoni. In 1982, he was recognized Righteous Among the Nations by the Israeli government, which did not prevent him from being sharply critical of the State of Israel's policies towards Palestinians.\n\nIn 1946, Tullio Vinay left his pastoral position in Florence, and the following year he founded the Ecumenical Church Center at Prali, in Piedmont. Indeed, after the World War II, the Waldensian Church wanted to contribute actively to the necessary work of reconciliation. In 1947, under the leadership of Pastor Tullio Vinay, some young Italian Protestants began the construction project of the Agapè Center. With the support of the World Council of Churches, they were soon joined by young people from different countries who, just a few years before, were fighting each other in a merciless war: Americans, English, Germans, French, etc. Agapè was a place of meeting, living and working together for young people from different countries but also different religions, including non-believers, in a confrontation where everyone would have to give up their claim of owning the truth, a concept well ahead of its time in 1947. The purpose of this center was thus summarized by its founder: \"Agape is a place where people meet and spend a brief period of living together in search of brotherly love. To the question of when the idea of founding this center was born, Tullio Vinay replied: \"When we discovered, with astonishment and surprise, that God loves us\". The architect of the building was Leonardo Ricci, a renowned architect and also a friend of Tullio Vinay.\n\nIn 1961, Pastor Vinay gave life to a new great project, this time in the heart of Sicily, in the city of Riesi, where he founded the \"Christian service center\" to respond to the economic, social and moral misery of the local population and to create an outpost against the Mafia's excessive power. Without practicing any form of proselytism, the Riesi Christian Service immediately identified its areas of intervention, education, health and sustainable development of the territory, in accordance with the Protestant and Waldensian vision which believes that each person must be accompanied towards their liberation of any form of slavery, including when it is a cultural one. Today, the Christian service of Riesi consists of a kindergarten, an elementary school, an accommodation centre, a social and health center (initially a family counseling center) and an agricultural advisory center. Originally, there was also a vocational school. Since 2009, it is recognized as being of cultural interest by the region of Sicily.\n\nAs for Agape, the building of the Christian Service Center was designed and built between 1963 and 1966 by architect Leonardo Ricci; named \"Monte degli Ulivi \" (Mount of Olives), the building is considered to be a remarkable example of the 20th century Italian architecture.\n\nFrom 1976 to 1983, Tullio Vinay was a member of the Senate of the Italian Republic, elected as independent on the Italian Communist Party's list.\n\n\nPastor Tullio Vinay is the outstanding figure of Italian Protestantism in the 20th century. He has considerably renewed its Christian proclamation and testimony of charity through the founding of the two institutions of Agape and Riesi.\n\nIn 1974 Tullio Vinay was the inspiration of the two founders of the \"Mouvement des Chrétiens pour l'Abolition de la Torture\" (Christian Action for the Abolition of Torture movement, a.k.a. ACAT), which was launched in the UK as \"Action by Christians against Torture\" in 1984.\n\n"}
{"id": "2063748", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2063748", "title": "Unsafe abortion", "text": "Unsafe abortion\n\nAn unsafe abortion is the termination of a pregnancy by people lacking the necessary skills, or in an environment lacking minimal medical standards, or both. For example, an unsafe abortion may be an extremely dangerous life-threatening procedure that is self-induced in unhygienic conditions, or it may be a much safer abortion performed by a medical practitioner who does not provide appropriate post-abortion attention.\n\nUnsafe abortion is a significant cause of maternal mortality and morbidity in the world. Most unsafe abortions occur where abortion is illegal, or in developing countries where affordable well-trained medical practitioners are not readily available, or where modern contraceptives are unavailable. Unsafe abortion contributes to estimated 8-18% of maternal mortality and is one of the leading causes of maternal mortality. About one in eight pregnancy-related deaths worldwide is associated with unsafe abortion.\n\nThe World Health Organization (WHO) recently published a new estimate on abortions in the world (2017). The new estimates reveal that in the time period of 2010-14 there were 55.7 million abortions worldwide each year. Out of these abortions, approximately 54% were safe, 31% were less safe, and 14% were least safe. That means that 25 million (45%) abortions each year between 2010 and 2014 were unsafe, with 24 million (97%) of these in developing countries. In 2003 approximately 42 million pregnancies were voluntarily terminated, of which 20 million were unsafe. According to WHO and Guttmacher, at least 22,800 women die annually as a result of complications of unsafe abortion; and between two million and seven million women each year survive unsafe abortion but sustain long-term damage or disease (incomplete abortion, infection (sepsis), haemorrhage, and injury to the internal organs, such as puncturing or tearing of the uterus). They also concluded abortion is safer in countries where it's legal, but dangerous in countries where it's outlawed and performed clandestinely. The WHO reports that in developed regions, nearly all abortions (92%) are safe, whereas in developing countries, more than half (55%) are unsafe. According to WHO statistics, the risk rate for unsafe abortion is 1/270; according to other sources, unsafe abortion is responsible for at least 8% of maternal deaths. Worldwide, 48% of all induced abortions are unsafe. The British Medical Bulletin reported in 2003 that 70,000 women a year die from unsafe abortion. Incidence of such abortions may be difficult to measure because they can be reported variously as miscarriage, \"induced miscarriage\", \"menstrual regulation\", \"mini-abortion\", and \"regulation of a delayed/suspended menstruation\".\n\nAn article pre-printed by the World Health Organization called safe, legal abortion a \"fundamental right of women, irrespective of where they live\" and unsafe abortion a \"silent pandemic\". The article states \"ending the silent pandemic of unsafe abortion is an urgent public-health and human-rights imperative.\" It also states \"access to safe abortion improves women’s health, and vice versa, as documented in Romania during the regime of President Nicolae Ceaușescu\" and \"legalisation of abortion on request is a necessary but insufficient step toward improving women’s health\" citing that in some countries, such as India where abortion has been legal for decades, access to competent care remains restricted because of other barriers. WHO’s Global Strategy on Reproductive Health, adopted by the World Health Assembly in May 2004, noted: \"As a preventable cause of maternal mortality and morbidity, unsafe abortion must be dealt with as part of the MDG on improving maternal health and other international development goals and targets.\" The WHO's Development and Research Training in Human Reproduction (HRP), whose research concerns people's sexual and reproductive health and lives, has an overall strategy to combat unsafe abortion that comprises four interrelated activities:\n\nA 2007 study published in \"The Lancet\" found that, although the global rate of abortion declined from 45.6 million in 1995 to 41.6 million in 2003, unsafe procedures still accounted for 48% of all abortions performed in 2003. It also concluded that, while the overall incidence of abortion in both developed and developing countries is approximately equal, unsafe abortion occurs more often in less-developed nations.\n\nAccording to a new study in \"The Lancet\" that focused on data from 2010 to 2014, nearly 55 million pregnancies are terminated early and of that 55 million, nearly half, 25.5 million are deemed as unsafe. The World Health Organization and the Guttmacher Institute in New York, stresses the need for access to a safe abortion for all women and that unsafe methods must be replaced. Africa, Asia and Latin America account for almost 97 percent of them of unsafe abortions. These regions are often poorer and underdeveloped and lack the access to safe abortion methods. Out of all abortions in these regions only 25% are considered safe. In developed countries these numbers improve drastically. Nearly all abortions in North America (99%) are considered safe. Overall nearly 88% of abortions in developed countries were actually considered safe, with the number of safe abortions in Europe slightly lower.\n\nUnsafe abortions often occur where abortion is illegal. However, the prevalence of unsafe abortion may also be determined by other factors, such as whether it occurs in a developing country that has a low level of competent medical care.\n\nUnsafe abortions sometimes occur where abortion is legal, and safe abortions sometimes occur where abortion is illegal. Legalization is not always followed by elimination of unsafe abortion. Affordable safe services may be unavailable despite legality, and conversely women may be able to afford medically competent services despite illegality.\n\nWhen abortion is illegal, that generally contributes to the prevalence of unsafe abortion, but it is not the only contributor. In addition, a lack of access to safe and effective contraception contributes to unsafe abortion. It has been estimated that the incidence of unsafe abortion could be reduced by as much as 73% without any change in abortion laws if modern family planning and maternal health services were readily available globally.\n\nIllegality of abortion contributes to maternal mortality, but that contribution is not as great as it once was, due to medical advances including penicillin and the birth control pill.\n\nSource: WHO 2006\n\nIn 1973, the Supreme Court ruled 7–2 that laws prohibiting an abortion violated a woman’s right to privacy. The landmark case, \"Roe v. Wade\", changed abortion in the United States. Prior to Roe v. Wade, early abortion laws really only prohibited the use of toxic chemicals that were used to cause a miscarriage.\n\nIn 1821 Connecticut passed the first law that regulated abortion, by barring the use of toxic chemicals.\n\nPrior to 1973 the authority to legalize abortion rested with the state governments. Up through the 1960s 44 states had laws that outlawed abortions regardless if the abortion threatened the well-being of the mother.\n\nIn the 1940s records show that more than 1,000 women died each year from abortions that were labeled as unsafe. Many of these abortions were self-induced. Unsafe abortion practices were such a concern in the United States that nearly every large hospital had some type of “septic abortion ward” that was responsible for dealing with the complications that accompanied an incomplete abortion. Incomplete abortions were the leading cause for OB-GYN services across the United States. In the 1960s, the National Opinion Research Center found that hundreds of women were attempting to self-abort with coat hangers, knitting needles and ballpoint pens, and by swallowing toxic chemicals like bleach and laundry detergent. However, the number of deaths declined significantly into the 1960s and 1970s. The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention estimates that in 1972, 130,000 women attempted self-induced abortions or obtained illegal abortions, resulting in 39 deaths.\n\nIn 2005, the \"Detroit News\" reported that a 16-year-old boy beat his pregnant, under-age girlfriend with a bat at her request to abort a fetus. The young couple lived in Michigan, where parental consent is required to receive an abortion. In Indiana, where there are also parental consent laws, a young woman by the name of Becky Bell died from an unsafe abortion rather than discuss her pregnancy and wish for an abortion with her parents.\n\nIn 2011, Kermit Gosnell, a licensed doctor who provided abortion services in the American state of Pennsylvania, was indicted by a grand jury on murder charges after a woman died in his clinic. The grand jury found that the conditions in Gosnell's clinic were not only unsanitary and that Gosnell staffed his clinic with unlicensed individuals, he had also commonly conducted the lesser known practice of severing the spinal cords of newly born babies.\n\nMethods of unsafe abortion include:\n\nUnsafe abortion is a major cause of injury and death among women worldwide. It is estimated that nearly 25 million unsafe abortions take place annually. Of this 25 million it is estimated that anywhere from 4.7% to 13.2% of maternal deaths come from a direct result of unsafe abortion practices, which disproportionately affect developing countries that lack safe abortion practices. 97% of these abortions take place in developing countries. Unsafe abortion is believed to result in at least 22,800 deaths and millions of injuries annually. The legal status of abortion is believed to play a major role in the frequency of unsafe abortion. For example, the 1996 legalization of abortion in South Africa had an immediate positive impact on the frequency of abortion-related complications, with abortion-related deaths dropping by more than 90%. Groups such as the World Health Organization have advocated a public-health approach to addressing unsafe abortion, emphasizing the legalization of abortion, the training of medical personnel, and ensuring access to reproductive-health services.\n\nAn unsafe abortion can lead to wide range of health risks that can affect the well-being of women. The major and most life-threatening complications that stem from unsafe abortions are infection, hemorrhaging and injury to internal organs.\n\nAbortion symptoms that can lead to additional health risks:\n\nComplications and their treatments include:\nDamage to the genital tract or internal organs: Admission to a health care facility is imperative, any delay can be fatal.\n\nRegardless if an abortion was legal or illegal, health care providers are required by law to provide medical care to patients, as it may be life-saving. In some cases, treatment for abortion complications may be administered only when the woman provides information about the abortion and provides information about any and all persons that were involved.\n\nIt is difficult to get a confession from a women seeking emergency medical care as a result of an illegal abortion because it puts women's lives at risk. However, it is a legal requirement for doctors to report cases of women who have undergone any type of abortion. Any delay in care increases the risks to women’s health and lives. \n\nAn illegal abortion may be called a \"back-alley\", \"backstreet\", or \"back-yard\" abortion.\n\nThe wire coat hanger method was a popularly known illegal abortion procedure, although they were not the norm. Mary Calderone, former medical director of Planned Parenthood, said, in a 1960 printing of the \"American Journal of Public Health\":\nHerbal abortions (when done illegally) can also be described as an unsafe abortions because they are not induced in a medical facility.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4733563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4733563", "title": "Volcano rabbit", "text": "Volcano rabbit\n\nThe volcano rabbit (\"Romerolagus diazi\"), also known as teporingo or zacatuche, is a small rabbit that resides in the mountains of Mexico . It is the world's second-smallest rabbit, second only to the pygmy rabbit. It has small rounded ears, short legs, and short, thick fur and weighs approximately 390–600 g (0.86–1.3 lb). It has a life span of 7 to 9 years. The volcano rabbit lives in groups of 2 to 5 animals in burrows (underground nests) and runways among grass tussocks. The burrows can be as long as 5 m and as deep as 40 cm. There are usually 2 to 3 young per litter, born in the burrows. In semi-captivity, however, they don´t make burrows and the young are born in nests made in the grass tussocks .\n\nUnlike many species of rabbits (and similar to pikas), the volcano rabbit emits very high-pitched sounds instead of thumping its feet on the ground to warn other rabbits of danger. It is crepuscular and is highly active during twilight, dawn and all times in between. Populations have been estimated to have approximately 150–200 colonies with a total population of 1,200 individuals over their entire range. The last confirmed sighting of the species at Nevado de Toluca (were no permanent colony has been historically documented) occurred in August 2003 when just a single volcano rabbit was observed. Since 1987, research conducted by Hoth et al., in relation to the distribution of the Volcano Rabbit already found no records of this species in the Nevado de Toluca, including the site where Tikul Álvarez (IPN) collected a specimen in 1975 (Nevado de Toluca, 4 km S, 2 km W Raíces, 3350 masl). Although no permanent colony has been documented in Nevado de Toluca, the volcano rabbit was declared \"extinct\" within this portion of its range in 2018; populations exist elsewhere within the Trans-Mexican Volcanic Belt and in captivity.\n\nThe volcano rabbit’s adult weight goes up to 500 g. It has short, dense fur that ranges in color from brown to black. The rabbit is a gnawing animal that is distinguished from rodents by its two pairs specialized of upper incisors that are designed for gnawing. Their body size and hindlimb development demonstrates how they need extra grass-cover for evasion from predators. Their speediness and their hind limb development relative to their body size correlate to their necessity for evasion action. They are relatively slow and vulnerable in open habitats; therefore they take comfort in high, covered areas. They also have difficulty breeding in small enclosures. Volcano rabbits have a very narrow gestational period: In one study, all females gave birth between 39 and 41 days after coitus. They create runways similar to those made by microtine rodents to navigate their habitat. The burrows consist of dense grass clumps, with a length of 5 m and depth of 40 cm. Their small size relates to their selective dietary habits. As of 1987, they were used in one piece of scientific research.\n\nVolcano rabbits are an endangered species endemic to Mexico. Specifically, the rabbit is native to four volcanoes just south and East of Mexico City, the largest of these volcanic regions is within the Izta-Popo National Park, other areas include the Chichinautzin and Pelado volcanos.\n\nVolcano rabbits are commonly found at higher altitudes. Almost 71% of volcano rabbits are found in pine forests, alder forests, and grasslands. \"R. Diazi\" is a gnawing animal that is distinguished from rodents by its two pairs of specialized upper incisors that are designed for gnawing. Volcano rabbits are more abundant near tall, dense herbs and thick vegetation, and are adversely affected by anthropogenic environmental disturbances like logging and burning. A study on the effects of climate change upon volcano rabbit metapopulations concluded that fluctuations in climate most affected rabbits on the edge of their habitable range. The volcano rabbit's range encompasses a maximum of 280 km of grasslands in elevated areas in the Trans-Mexican Neovolcanic Belt.\n\nThe IUCN/SSC Lagomorph Specialist Group has created an action plan for this rabbit that focuses upon the need to manage the burning and overgrazing of its Zacatón habitats and to enforce laws prohibiting its hunting, capture, and sale. Studies about the volcano rabbit's geographical range, role in its habitat, population dynamics, and evolutionary history have been recommended. In addition, habitat restoration and the establishment of Zacatón corridors to link core areas of habitat are needed.\n\nThe volcano rabbit feeds primarily on grasses such as \"Festuca amplissima\", \"Muhlenbergia macroura\", \"Stipa ichu\", and \"Eryngium rosei\". The rabbits also use these plants as cover to hide from predators. \"M. macroura\" was found to be in 89% of pellets of the volcano rabbits, suggesting that this is the base of their diet, but it does not actually provide the necessary energy and protein needs of the rabbits. Supplementing their diet with 15 other forms of plant life, volcano rabbits can get their required nutrition. Other plant species that also are responsible for supporting the volcano rabbit are the \"Muhlenbergia quadidentata\", the \"Pinus hartwegii\", \"F. tolucensis\", \"P. hartwegeii\". Volcano rabbits also consume leaves, foliage, and flowers indiscriminately under poor conditions, as habitat loss has eliminated much of their food sources. In fact, protein acquisition is the primary limiting factor on the size of the populations of each of the four volcanoes on which the species is located. Studies show that many individuals of the population suffer from serious weight loss and starvation.\n\nSeasonal changes also affect the diet of the volcano rabbit greatly. The grasses it normally consumes are abundant during wet seasons. During the dry season, the volcano rabbit feasts on shrubs and small trees, as well as other woody plants. During the winter plants, these woody plants make up most of their diet, as well as the primary building material for their nests.\n\nNumerous studies conducted during the 1980s and 1990s agreed that the habitat of the volcano rabbit was shrinking due to a combination of natural and anthropogenic causes. There is evidence that its range has shrunk significantly during the last 18,000 years due to a 5–6 °C increase in the prevailing temperature, and its distribution is now divided into 16 patches. The fragmentation of the volcano rabbit's distribution has resulted from a long-term warming trend that has driven it to progressively higher altitudes and the relatively recent construction of highways that dissect its habitat.\n\nDeclines in the \"R. diazi\" population have been occurring due a number of changes in vegetation, climate, and, thus, elevation. The volcano rabbit is extremely vulnerable to the effects of climate change and other anthropogenic intrusions because of its extremely limited range and specialized diet. Patches of vegetation that \"R. diazi\" uses for survival are becoming fragmented, isolated and smaller, rendering the environment more open and therefore less suitable for its survival. Because the volcano rabbit inhabits the area surrounding Mexico City, Mexico's most populous region, it has suffered a very high rate of habitat destruction.\n\nThe cottontail rabbit, \"Sylvilagus\", is expanding into the volcano rabbit’s niche, but there is “no evidence that [volcano rabbits'] habitat selection is a response to competitive exclusion.\" The volcano rabbit has been severely pressured by human intrusion into its habitat. Anthropogenic disturbance enables other rabbit species to flourish in grasslands, increasing competition with the volcano rabbit.\n\nVolcano rabbits have been bred in captivity , but there is evidence that the species loses a significant amount of genetic diversity when it reproduces in such conditions. A comparative study done on wild and captive volcano rabbits found that the latter lost a substantial amount of DNA loci, and some specimens lost 88% of their genetic variability. There was, however, one locus whose variability was higher than that of the wild population.\n\nThreats to \"R. diazi\", or the volcano rabbit, include logging, harvesting of grasses, livestock grazing, habitat destruction, urban expansion, highway construction and too frequent forest fires. More recent threats include unsound management policies of its habitat in National Parks and outside, mainly by afforestation (planting trees in grasslands where they do not belong).\n\nThese threats have resulted in a loss of 15–20% of the volcano rabbit’s habitat during the last three generations. They have also resulted in ecological displacement and genetic isolation of \"R. diazi\". Hunting is another threat to the volcano rabbit, despite the fact that \"R. diazi\" is listed under Appendix 1 of CITES and it is illegal to hunt \"R. diazi\" under Mexican law. However, many are unaware that R. diazi is protected and officials do not adequately enforce its protection. Hunting, livestock grazing, and fires can even harm \"R. diazi\" within national parks that are protected such as Izta-Popo and Zoquiapan National Parks.\nIn terms of conservation efforts, various captive breeding programs have been established with relative success, but infant mortality in captivity is high. Actions toward conservation should be focused on the enforcement of laws which forbid hunting and trading of the volcano rabbit. Furthermore, efforts must be put toward habitat management, specifically the control of forest fires and livestock overgrazing of grasses. Lastly, it would be beneficial to enact education programs regarding \"R. diazi\" and the various threats that face it. The public should also be educated about the volcano rabbit’s protected status, as many are unaware that it is illegal to hunt \"R. diazi\".\n\n"}
{"id": "14847186", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14847186", "title": "Voluntarism (action)", "text": "Voluntarism (action)\n\nVoluntarism, sometimes referred to as voluntary action, is the principle that individuals are free to choose goals and how to achieve them within the bounds of certain societal and cultural constraints, as opposed to actions that are coerced or predetermined.\n\nVolunteer management specialist Susan Ellis differentiates between \"voluntarism\" and \"volunteerism\":\n\n\"Voluntarism\" (the older term) refers to everything voluntary. In the United States this includes religion. It certainly encompasses the entire \"voluntary sector,\" but \"voluntary\" in the \"voluntarism\" context means not mandated by law (as government is). Many voluntary sector (nonprofit) agencies have a volunteer board because that is a legal requirement, but may not utilize volunteers in direct service in any way. There are subjects within \"voluntarism\" that have nothing to do with volunteers, such as Unrelated Business Income Tax legislation, proposal writing, and compensation law.\n\nVoluntary provision of services to religious, civil, medical, educational, environmental and other private or governmental organizations doubtless has a long history. Such volunteer efforts keep expenses down for non-profit and philanthropic organizations, empower individuals and groups to help others, and make volunteers feel needed.\n\nVoluntarism flourished in the 19th and early 20th centuries and was empowering especially to the women who had been excluded from political participation outside the home. Women’s organizations dealt with social problems created by rapid industrialization and urbanization, and by massive immigration which were not addressed by institutions of the time and had a great influence on American political culture.\n\nVoluntarism is also used to describe non-coercive methods of recruiting soldiers, from participants in European and American military service to youthful combatants in civil war in Sierra Leone.\n\nVoluntarism has been a phrase used in labor relations. In Britain, it means the state refrains from directly intervening in industrial relations. In the early American labor movement it meant trade unions should focus on \"pure and simple\" gains in wages and working conditions and not independent labor politics and industrial unionism.\n\nIn his book \"Willful Liberalism: Voluntarism and Individuality in Political Theory and Practice\", Johns Hopkins University political science professor Richard E. Flathman argues that liberals must understand more about individuality and self-reliance and self-responsibility and therefore be more open of acceptance of voluntary action and less concerned with ordering political society. He notes, \"Americans of all ages, all conditions, and all dispositions constantly form associations,\" which he describes as \"of a thousand other kinds, religious, moral, serious, futile, general or restricted, enormous or diminutive\".\n\nIn sociology, voluntarism is an important aspect of the action theory of Talcott Parsons, as well as other theories of social action and agency.\n\nVoluntaryists, free market advocates, libertarians and anarchists call for voluntary efforts to replace most or all government efforts, using both moral and utilitarian arguments.\n\nVoluntary provision of services to the religious, civil, medical, educational, environmental and other private or governmental organizations doubtless has a long history.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1338891", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1338891", "title": "Zilla (TriStar Godzilla)", "text": "Zilla (TriStar Godzilla)\n\n, originally known as Godzilla, is a film monster originating from TriStar Pictures's \"Godzilla\" (1998). It was initially created as a reimagining of Toho's Godzilla but was later re-branded as a separate character. It was designed, by Patrick Tatopoulos, after marine iguanas with a slim theropod appearance as opposed to the bulky erect theropod designs of Toho's Godzilla. TriStar's Godzilla, both the film and character, were negatively received by fans and critics. Planned sequels were cancelled and an serving as a sequel was produced instead.\n\nIn 2004, TriStar's Godzilla was featured in Toho's \"\" as \"Zilla\". Afterwards, Toho (the owners of Godzilla) began trademarking new incarnations as \"Zilla\", with only the iterations from the 1998 film and animated show retaining the Godzilla copyright/trademark. The character has since appeared in other media as \"Zilla\".\n\nInitially, during production of \"\", director Ryuhei Kitamura asked producer Shōgo Tomiyama whether or not they were allowed to include TriStar's Godzilla in the film, whereupon Tomiyama checked Toho's contract with Sony and saw they were allowed to use it, Tomiyama stated: \"Kitamura asked me if it was possible for us to use the American Godzilla in Final Wars, so I checked our contract with Sony Pictures and found out we could use it. Since this was the 50th anniversary film, I thought ‘Why not include the American Godzilla?'\" This incarnation of TriStar's Godzilla was named \"Zilla\". This decision was made because they also felt that Emmerich's film had taken the \"God\" out of \"Godzilla\" by portraying the character as a mere animal. The name \"Zilla\" was chosen for the character by Tomiyama as a satirical take on counterfeit Godzilla products that use \"Zilla\" as a suffix.\nThe \"Zilla\" name has since been trademarked by Toho and this name change has been reflected in subsequent official products featuring the character since 2004, though \"Godzilla\" continues to be used on products that predate the name change, such as home media re-releases of the 1998 film or \"\". Matt Frank (co-writer and illustrator of \"Godzilla: Rulers of Earth\") further clarified the name change, stating, \"Toho makes zero distinction between \"Zilla\" and \"Godzilla 1998\" with the exception of title alone. Ever since 2004, Toho's official stance has been that any future incarnations of the character be referred to hereafter as 'Zilla'.\" Keith Aiken (co-editor of SciFi Japan) also clarified that \"Zilla is a variation of the 1998 Godzilla\" but stressed that only the incarnations from the 1998 film and the animated series retain the Godzilla copyright and trademark.\n\nDuring the production of the 1998 film, special effects artist Patrick Tatopoulos was contacted by director Roland Emmerich and asked to create a new design for the Godzilla character. According to Tatopoulos, the only specific instructions Emmerich gave him was that it should be able to run incredibly fast.\n\nGodzilla was originally conceived by special effects director Eiji Tsubaraya, special effects designers Akira Wantanabe and Teizo Toshimitsu and director Tomoyuki Tanaka as a robust, erect-standing, plantigrade reptilian sea monster, played by an actor in a rubber-latex full-body suit. Based on the instructions Emmerich gave him, Tatopoulos reimagined it as a lean, digitigrade bipedal iguana that stood with its back and tail parallel to the ground, rendered via computer animation. The monster's distinctive facial features include a prominent lantern jaw, inspired by the fictional tiger Shere Khan from Disney's animated adaptation of \"The Jungle Book\".\n\nTriStar's Godzilla color scheme was designed to reflect and blend in with the urban environment. At one point, it was planned to use motion capture to create the movements of the computer-generated monster, but it ended up looking too much like a man in a suit. The Baby Godzilla scenes utilized a combination of CGI and purpose built costumes donned by actors. Kurt Carley portrayed the suitmation sequences for the adult Godzilla in the 1998 film while Frank Welker provided the sound effects for both the adult Godzilla as well as the Baby Godzillas.\n\nUpon pending approval for the design, at the time, Shōgo Tomiyama commented on the new look, saying \"It was so different we realized we couldn't make small adjustments. That left the major question of whether to approve it or not.\" Though TriStar's Godzilla was referred to by the film's characters as a \"he\", Patrick Tatopoulos stated on a DVD audio commentary that the effects crew sculpted female genitalia into the CG model of the creature.\nIn the 1998 film and animated series, TriStar's Godzilla is portrayed as a territorial, piscivorous, tall mutated lizard. Atypical of Toho's giant monster characters, TriStar's Godzilla is not immune to conventional weaponry, and instead relies on its cunning and athleticism to outflank its enemies. It can travel long distances over land and sea, burrow underground and reproduce via parthenogenesis, and is able to lay over 200 eggs, unlike its offspring in the animated series which was unable to reproduce. It possesses an ignitable radioactive breath weapon called \"Power Breath\", although its offspring could breathe a green atomic Power Breath in the animated series (where also the parent, resurrected as a cyborg called Cyber-Godzilla, possessed a blue version), in which it was pitted against a rogues gallery of original monsters, after the producers were unable to secure the rights to adapt Toho's classic monsters. It was also featured in advertisements alongside the Taco Bell chihuahua.\n\nTriStar's Godzilla was featured in the 2004 Toho film \"\" as \"Zilla\"; this name would continue to be used and trademarked for later incarnations. A 3D scan of the Trendmasters \"Ultimate Godzilla\" toy was used as reference for Zilla. In the film, Zilla engages Toho's Godzilla in a battle intended \"to show which Godzilla is stronger\". Zilla would fight Godzilla again in a slightly longer battle, and even team up with Godzilla to fight other monsters, in the comic series by IDW Publishing titled \"Godzilla: Rulers of Earth\" running between 2013-2015.\n\nThe design and characterization of TriStar's Godzilla was negatively received. Film critic Richard Pusateri of \"G-Fan Magazine\" coined the acronym GINO (\"Godzilla In Name Only\") to distinguish it from Toho's Godzilla. while some fans referred to it as the \"American Godzilla\". The major points of criticism were centered around the character's radical departure from the traditional Godzilla design, how it was portrayed fleeing from the military, how it did not breathe the traditional atomic heat ray, how it laid eggs, and was killed by missiles during the film's climax, as well as rejecting all the thematic elements, regarding nuclear warfare, of the original. \n\nThese sentiments were echoed by veteran \"Godzilla\" suit actors Haruo Nakajima and Kenpachiro Satsuma, and by Shusuke Kaneko, director of the '90s \"Gamera\" films. Nakajima ridiculed the character design, stating: \"Its face looks like an iguana and its body and limbs look like a frog\". Satsuma walked out of the film, saying \"it's not Godzilla, it doesn't have his spirit\". Kaneko opined \"[Americans] seem unable to accept a creature that cannot be put down by their arms\", and later alluded to the character in his film \"\" as a monster that Americans mistook for Godzilla.\n\nThe animated version of the character was more positively received than its live-action predecessor, due to being closer in line with the spirit of Toho's Godzilla, possessing the ability to breathe atomic fire, battle monsters, and withstand attacks. However, the negative response to both Emmerich's \"Godzilla\" as well as the Disney remake of \"Mighty Joe Young\" released that same year, had caused giant monster movies to fall out of vogue for several years after, with films such as Peter Jackson's \"King Kong\" remake being postponed until 2005. Poor merchandise sales for the film led to a cancellation of a toy line based on \"Godzilla: The Series\", and resulted in significant financial losses for toy manufacturer Trendmasters.\n\nThe character has only made two film appearances in \"Godzilla\" (1998) and \"Godzilla: Final Wars\" (2004) and was vaguely referenced in \"\" (2001). A trilogy of films were originally planned, and a treatment by Tab Murphy for \"Godzilla 2\" was written, but the project was abandoned due to the poor reception of the 1998 film and TriStar let their license to Godzilla expire in 2003.\n\nAn animated television series, \"\", was produced instead and served as a sequel to the 1998 film. It ran between September 12, 1998 to April 22, 2000 and featured the surviving offspring from the 1998 film as the new Godzilla as well as a reanimated cyborg version of the first Godzilla named \"Cyber-Godzilla\". For the video games \"\" and \"\", developer Simon Strange decided not to include Zilla due to the character's unpopularity among fans. Strange received criticism from fans for not including Zilla in \"Godzilla: Unleashed\".\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
