{"id": "55892997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55892997", "title": "Amy Gilbert", "text": "Amy Gilbert\n\nAmy Gilbert (23 February 1895 – 27 August 1980) was an American historian of the United States.\n\nAmy Margaret Gilbert was born in Chambersburg, Pennsylvania on 23 February 1895. She briefly attended Cornell University in 1914, but graduated from Wilson College in 1915. She taught high school for a year before she was appointed as an instructor at Elmira College. Gilbert was awarded her M.A. in 1919 and her Ph.D in 1922 from the University of Pennsylvania and her LL.D. from Wilson College in 1939. Upon completion of her Ph.D. in 1922, Gilbert became professor of history and chair of the department. She was the academic dean at Milwaukee-Downer College in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, from 1936 to 1941 and then dean at Rhode Island State College in Kingston, Rhode Island, from 1941 to 1945, and head of the history and political science departments of the four units of Associated College of Upper New York (Champlain College, Mohawk College, Sampson College, and Middletown Collegiate Center) from 1946 to 1950. Gilbert was then appointed dean of academic administration at Champlain College of State University of New York at Plattsburgh in 1950–52 and then became head of the college from 1952 to 1953. She was professor of history at Harpur College of Arts and Sciences of Binghamton University from 1953 until her retirement in 1965 and remained emerati until her death on 27 February 1980.\n"}
{"id": "3470381", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3470381", "title": "Anita Shapira", "text": "Anita Shapira\n\nAnita Shapira (, born 1940) is an Israeli historian. She is the founder of the Yitzhak Rabin Center for Israel Studies, Emerita Professor of Jewish History at Tel Aviv University and former head of the Weizmann Institute for the Study of Zionism at Tel Aviv University. She received the Israel Prize for History in 2008.\n\nShapira was born in Warsaw, Poland in 1940, immigrated to Mandate Palestine in 1947 and grew up in Tel Aviv. The family lived on Yavneh Street sharing a kitchen and bathroom with other families. Later, they moved to Yad Eliyahu.\n\nShe studied general and Jewish history at Tel Aviv University, completing her Ph.D in 1974 under Professor Daniel Carpi. Her dissertation, \"The Struggle for Hebrew Labor, 1929-1939,\" indicated her interest in the history of the Labor Zionist movement, which was to be a continuing focus of her research. In 1985 she was appointed full professor at Tel Aviv University, serving in 1990-95 as dean of the Faculty of Humanities. From 1995 until 2009 she held the Ruben Merenfeld Chair for the Study of Zionism. From 2000 to 2012, she was head of the Chaim Weizmann Institute for the Study of Zionism and Israel at Tel Aviv University. From 2008 to 2013 she was a director in the Israel Democracy Institute.\n\nFrom 1985 to 1989, she was a member of the Planning and Budgeting Commission of the Council for Higher Education in Israel; in 1987-90 she was chair of the board of Am Oved publishing house; since 1988 she has been a board member of the Zalman Shazar Institute. In 2002-2008, she was president of the Memorial Foundation for Jewish Culture. She founded the Yitzhak Rabin Center for Israel Studies and was its first director in 1996-99.\nShe is a member of the Editorial Board of the \"Jewish Review of Books\", academic co-editor with Prof. Steven J. Zipperstein of the biography series \"Jewish Lives\" published by Yale University Press, and academic co-editor with Prof. Derek J. Penslar of the \"Journal of Israeli History\".\n\nShapira's research focuses on the political, cultural, social, intellectual and military history of the Jewish community in Palestine (the Yishuv) and Israel.\n\nShapira's last book, \"Ben-Gurion: Father of Modern Israel\", strives to get to the core of the complex man who would become the face of the new Jewish nation. Shapira tells the Ben-Gurion story anew, focusing especially on the period after 1948, during the first years of statehood. She provides fascinating and original insights into Ben-Gurion personal qualities and those that defined his political leadership.\nHer first book, based on her doctoral dissertation, Hama’avak Hanihzav: Avoda Ivrit 1929-1939 (\"The Futile Struggle: Hebrew Work 1929-1939\"), deals with the social and political history of the Yishuv in the 1920s and 1930s, including the controversies on policy towards the Arab population and the conflicts between left and right on the means for achieving Zionist goals.\n\nHer second book, \"Berl: The Biography of a Socialist Zionist, Berl Katznelson, 1887-1944\", was widely acclaimed by the general reading public as well as in academia and was published in Hebrew in eight editions. Focusing on a major figure in the Labor Zionist movement, this book portrays the history, society and culture of the Yishuv from the Second Aliyah to the end of World War II.\n\nDuring work on a biography of Yigal Allon, Shapira became interested in the role of force in the Zionist movement, initially inspired by an article by Menachem Begin during the 1982 Lebanon War on “A War of Choice.” This resulted in a book, Herev Hayona: Hatziyonut vehakoah, 1881-1948 (\"Land and Power: The Zionist Resort to Force, 1881-1948\"). In her biography of Yigal Allon, \"Yigal Allon, Native Son: A Biography\", Shapira in fact portrays the development of the entire Palmach generation in Palestine, the first native-born Sabra generation.\n\nIn this period she also started investigating issues connected to culture and collective memory, as in articles on Latrun and S. Yizhar’s short story “Hirbet Hize,” and on the attitudes of Israeli society to the Holocaust and Holocaust survivors. Her book \"Hatanakh vehazehut hayisraelit\" (The Bible and Israeli identity) seeks to explain why the status of the Bible has declined in Israeli identity. Issues of identity, culture and memory are also the focus of two collection of essays, Yehudim Hadashim, Yehudim Yeshanim (New Jews, Old Jews), and \"Yehudim, Tziyonim Umah shebeinehem\" (Jews, Zionists and Between).\n\nMany of her books have been translated into English, German, Polish, Russian, and French.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "912551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=912551", "title": "Archaeological science", "text": "Archaeological science\n\nArchaeological science, also known as archaeometry, consists of the application of scientific techniques to the analysis of archaeological materials, to assist in dating the materials. It is related to methodologies of archaeology. Martinón-Torres and Killick distinguish ‘scientific archaeology’ (as an epistemology) from ‘archaeological science’ (the application of specific techniques to archaeological materials). Martinón-Torres and Killick claim that ‘archaeological science’ has promoted the development of high-level theory in archaeology. However, Smith rejects both concepts of archaeological science because neither emphasize falsification or a search for causality.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Natural and Environmental Research Council provides funding for archaeometry separate from the funding provided for archaeology. However, in almost all cases of archeometric research, scientists from the natural sciences assist in the scientific analysis of archeological artifacts. Universities that offer courses in archeometry offer these courses frequently as free choice for archeology students and these courses contain mainly a nonscientific overview over the possibilities that different scientific analyses offer to them.\n\nArchaeological science can be divided into the following areas:\n\nTechniques such as lithic analysis, archaeometallurgy, paleoethnobotany, palynology and zooarchaeology also form sub-disciplines of archaeological science.\n\nArchaeological science has particular value when it can provide absolute dates for archaeological strata and artifacts. Some of the most important dating techniques include:\n\nAnother important subdiscipline of archaeometry is the study of artifacts. Archaeometrists have used a variety of methods to analyze artifacts, either to determine more about their composition, or to determine their provenance. These techniques include:\n\nLead, strontium and oxygen isotope analysis can also test human remains to estimate the diets and even the birthplaces of a study's subjects.\n\nProvenance analysis has the potential to determine the original source of the materials used, for example, to make a particular artifact. This can show how far the artifact has traveled and can indicate the existence of systems of exchange.\n\nArchaeometry has greatly influenced modern archaeology. Archaeologists can obtain significant additional data and information using these techniques, and archaeometry has the potential to revise the understanding of the past. For example, the \"second radiocarbon revolution\" significantly re-dated European prehistory in the 1960s, compared to the \"first radiocarbon revolution\" from 1949.\n\nArchaeometry is an important tool in finding potential dig sites. The use of remote sensing has enabled archaeologists to identify many more archaeological sites than they could have otherwise. The use of aerial photography (including satellite imagery and Lidar) remains the most widespread remote-sensing technique. Ground-based geophysical surveys often help to identify and map archaeological features within identified sites.\n\n"}
{"id": "52680326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52680326", "title": "Buleliana", "text": "Buleliana\n\nBuleliana was a \"civitas\" (town) and bishopric in Roman North Africa and remains a Latin Catholic titular see.\nThe exact location of the town is not known but it was in the Sahel region of northern, Tunisia.\nBuleliana was among the municipalities of sufficient importance in the Roman province of Africa proconsularis and latter Byzacena to become a suffragan diocese in the papal sway. The town remained the seat of a Christian bishopric through the Roman, Vandal and Byzantine era but faded like most after the 7th century advent of Islam.\n\nWhile Mesnage assigns three bishops to the see, other authors dispute two assignations :\n\nThe diocese was nominally restored in 1989 as titular bishopric of Buleliana (Latin = Curiate Italian) / Bulelianen(sis) (Latin adjective) as a titular see of the Roman Catholic Church. \n\nIt has had the following incumbents, so far of the fitting Episcopal (lowest) rank: \n\n\n"}
{"id": "934327", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=934327", "title": "Capcir", "text": "Capcir\n\nCapcir (; ) is a historical Catalan comarca of Northern Catalonia, now part of the French department of Pyrénées-Orientales. The capital of the comarca was Formiguera, and it borders the historical comarques of Conflent and Alta Cerdanya. Capcir is on a plateau, averaging 1500 metres above sea level, and allows passage between the high valleys of Aude and both the Spanish Cerdanya and French Cerdagne. It has traditionally been rural, but has developed considerably in last the forty years thanks to its tourist attractions. Capcir has two nicknames: little Siberia or little Canada. This gives an idea of the climate which can prevail during the winter. It is one the last places in Western Europe where the artic plant Ligularia sibirica can be found .\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35766334", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35766334", "title": "Clifford Ando", "text": "Clifford Ando\n\nClifford Ando (born 1969) is an American classicist who specializes in Roman law and religion. His work deals primarily with law, religion, and government in the Imperial era, particularly issues of Roman citizenship, legal pluralism, and legal procedure. In the history of law, his work addresses the relations among civil law, public law, and international law.\n\nAndo is a professor in the Department of Classics, History and Law and in the College at the University of Chicago. He is a research fellow in the Department of Classics and World Languages at the University of South Africa, and the recipient of several fellowships, grants, and prizes. He has held fellowship and visiting professorships in Canada, France, Germany, New Zealand, and South Africa. He earned his doctorate from the University of Michigan in 1996, and his bachelor's degree from Princeton University in 1990.\n\nIn 2008, he was among faculty members who questioned the establishment of the Milton Friedman Institute at the University of Chicago.\n\nAndo has also published numerous articles, essays, and reviews.\n\n"}
{"id": "50481901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50481901", "title": "Constance Slaughter-Harvey", "text": "Constance Slaughter-Harvey\n\nConstance Slaughter-Harvey is a Forest, Mississippi native that became the first black judge in the state of Mississippi.\n\nContance Slaughter-Harvey received her bachelor's degree in political science and economics from Tougaloo College with cum laude honors. After graduation, she enrolled at the University of Mississippi School of Law where she was the first African-American female to graduate in 1970.\n"}
{"id": "268111", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=268111", "title": "Cuban Revolution", "text": "Cuban Revolution\n\nThe Cuban Revolution () was an armed revolt conducted by Fidel Castro's revolutionary 26th of July Movement and its allies against the authoritarian government of Cuban President Fulgencio Batista. The revolution began in July 1953, and continued sporadically until the rebels finally ousted Batista on 31 December 1959, replacing his government with a revolutionary socialist state. 26 July 1959 is celebrated in Cuba as the \"Day of the Revolution\". The 26th of July Movement later reformed along communist lines, becoming the Communist Party in October 1965.\n\nThe Cuban Revolution had powerful domestic and international repercussions. In particular, it transformed Cuba's relationship with the United States, although efforts to improve diplomatic relations have gained momentum in recent years. In the immediate aftermath of the revolution, Castro's government began a program of nationalization and political consolidation that transformed Cuba's economy and civil society. The revolution also heralded an era of Cuban intervention in foreign military conflicts, including the Angolan Civil War and the Nicaraguan Revolution.\n\nIn the decades following United States' invasion of Cuba in 1898, and formal independence from the U.S. on May 20, 1902, Cuba experienced a period of significant instability, enduring a number of revolts, coups and a period of U.S. military occupation. Fulgencio Batista, a former soldier who had served as the elected president of Cuba from 1940 to 1944, became president for the second time in 1952, after seizing power in a military coup and canceling the 1952 elections. Although Batista had been relatively progressive during his first term, in the 1950s he proved far more dictatorial and indifferent to popular concerns. While Cuba remained plagued by high unemployment and limited water infrastructure, Batista antagonized the population by forming lucrative links to organized crime and allowing American companies to dominate the Cuban economy, especially sugar-cane plantations and other local resources. Although the US armed and politically supported the Batista dictatorship, later US presidents recognized its corruption and the justifiability of removing it.\nDuring his first term as President, Batista had not been supported by the Communist Party of Cuba, but during his second term he became strongly anti-communist. Batista developed a rather weak security bridge as an attempt to silence political opponents. In the months following the March 1952 coup, Fidel Castro, then a young lawyer and activist, petitioned for the overthrow of Batista, whom he accused of corruption and tyranny. However, Castro's constitutional arguments were rejected by the Cuban courts. After deciding that the Cuban regime could not be replaced through legal means, Castro resolved to launch an armed revolution. To this end, he and his brother Raúl founded a paramilitary organization known as \"The Movement\", stockpiling weapons and recruiting around 1,200 followers from Havana's disgruntled working class by the end of 1952. Batista was known as a corrupt leader as he constantly pampered himself with elegant foods and exotic women.\n\nStriking their first blow against the Batista government, Fidel and Raúl Castro gathered 69 Movement fighters and planned a multi-pronged attack on several military installations. On 26 July 1953, the rebels attacked the Moncada Barracks in Santiago and the barracks in Bayamo, only to be decisively defeated by government soldiers. It was hoped that the staged attack would spark a nationwide revolt against Batista's government. He had around 150 factory and farm workers. After an hour of fighting the rebel leader fled to the mountains. The exact number of rebels killed in the battle is debatable; however, in his autobiography, Fidel Castro claimed that nine were killed in the fighting, and an additional 56 were executed after being captured by the Batista government. Due to the government's large number of men, Hunt revised the number to be around 60 members taking the opportunity to flee to the mountains along with Castro. Among the dead was Abel Santamaría, Castro's second-in-command, who was imprisoned, tortured, and executed on the same day as the attack.\n\nNumerous key Movement revolutionaries, including the Castro brothers, were captured shortly afterwards. In a highly political trial, Fidel spoke for nearly four hours in his defense, ending with the words \"Condemn me, it does not matter. History will absolve me.\" Castro's defense was based on nationalism, the representation and beneficial programs for the non-elite Cubans, and his patriotism and justice for the Cuban community. Fidel was sentenced to 15 years in the Presidio Modelo prison, located on Isla de Pinos, while Raúl was sentenced to 13 years. However, in 1955, under broad political pressure, the Batista government freed all political prisoners in Cuba, including the Moncada attackers. Fidel's Jesuit childhood teachers succeeded in persuading Batista to include Fidel and Raúl in the release.\n\nSoon, the Castro brothers joined with other exiles in Mexico to prepare for the overthrow of Batista, receiving training from Alberto Bayo, a leader of Republican forces in the Spanish Civil War. In June 1955, Fidel met the Argentine revolutionary Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara, who joined his cause. Raul and Castro's chief advisor Ernesto aided the initiation of Batista's amnesty. The revolutionaries named themselves the \"26th of July Movement\", in reference to the date of their attack on the Moncada Barracks in 1953.\n\nThe yacht \"Granma\" departed from Tuxpan, Veracruz, Mexico, on 25 November 1956, carrying the Castro brothers and 80 others including Ernesto \"Che\" Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos, even though the yacht was only designed to accommodate 12 people with a maximum of 25. The yacht arrived in Cuba on 2 December. The boat landed in Playa Las Coloradas, in the municipality of Niquero, arriving two days later than planned because the boat was heavily loaded, unlike during the practice sailing runs. This dashed any hopes for a coordinated attack with the \"llano\" wing of the Movement. After arriving and exiting the ship, the band of rebels began to make their way into the Sierra Maestra mountains, a range in southeastern Cuba. Three days after the trek began, Batista's army attacked and killed most of the \"Granma\" participants – while the exact number is disputed, no more than twenty of the original eighty-two men survived the initial encounters with the Cuban army and escaped into the Sierra Maestra mountains.\n\nThe group of survivors included Fidel and Raúl Castro, Che Guevara and Camilo Cienfuegos. The dispersed survivors, alone or in small groups, wandered through the mountains, looking for each other. Eventually, the men would link up again – with the help of peasant sympathizers – and would form the core leadership of the guerrilla army. A number of female revolutionaries, including Celia Sanchez and Haydée Santamaría (the sister of Abel Santamaria), also assisted Fidel Castro's operations in the mountains.\n\nOn the 13 March 1957, a separate group of revolutionaries – the anticommunist Student Revolutionary Directorate (RD) (\"Directorio Revolucionario Estudantil\", DRE), composed mostly of students – stormed the Presidential Palace in Havana, attempting to assassinate Batista and decapitate the government. The attack ended in utter failure. The RD's leader, student José Antonio Echeverría, died in a shootout with Batista's forces at the Havana radio station he had seized to spread the news of Batista's anticipated death. The handful of survivors included Dr. Humberto Castello (who later became the Inspector General in the Escambray), Rolando Cubela and Faure Chomon (both later Commandantes of the 13 March Movement, centered in the Escambray Mountains of Las Villas Province).\n\nThereafter, the United States imposed an economic embargo on the Cuban government and recalled its ambassador, weakening the government's mandate further. Batista's support among Cubans began to fade, with former supporters either joining the revolutionaries or distancing themselves from Batista. Once Batista started making drastic decisions concerning Cuba's economy, he began to nationalize U.S oil refineries and other U.S properties. Nonetheless, the Mafia and U.S. businessmen maintained their support for the regime.\n\nBatista's government often resorted to brutal methods to keep Cuba's cities under control. However, in the Sierra Maestra mountains, Castro, aided by Frank País, Ramos Latour, Huber Matos, and many others, staged successful attacks on small garrisons of Batista's troops. In addition, poorly armed irregulars known as \"escopeteros\" harassed Batista's forces in the foothills and plains of Oriente Province. The \"escopeteros\" also provided direct military support to Castro's main forces by protecting supply lines and by sharing intelligence. Ultimately, the mountains came under Castro's control.\n\nIn addition to armed resistance, the rebels sought to use propaganda to their advantage. A pirate radio station called \"Radio Rebelde\" (\"Rebel Radio\") was set up in February 1958, allowing Castro and his forces to broadcast their message nationwide within enemy territory. Castro's affiliation with the \"New York Times\" journalist Herbert Matthews created a front page-worthy report on anti-communist propaganda. The radio broadcasts were made possible by Carlos Franqui, a previous acquaintance of Castro who subsequently became a Cuban exile in Puerto Rico.\n\nDuring this time, Castro's forces remained quite small in numbers, sometimes fewer than 200 men, while the Cuban army and police force had a manpower of around 37,000. Even so, nearly every time the Cuban military fought against the revolutionaries, the army was forced to retreat. An arms embargo – imposed on the Cuban government by the United States on the 14 March 1958 – contributed significantly to the weakness of Batista's forces. The Cuban air force rapidly deteriorated: it could not repair its airplanes without importing parts from the United States.\n\nBatista finally responded to Castro's efforts with an attack on the mountains called Operation Verano, known to the rebels as \"la Ofensiva\". The army sent some 12,000 soldiers, half of them untrained recruits, into the mountains, along with his own brother Raul. In a series of small skirmishes, Castro's determined guerrillas defeated the Cuban army. In the Battle of La Plata, which lasted from 11 to 21 July 1958, Castro's forces defeated a 500-man battalion, capturing 240 men while losing just three of their own.\n\nHowever, the tide nearly turned on the 29 July 1958, when Batista's troops almost destroyed Castro's small army of some 300 men at the Battle of Las Mercedes. With his forces pinned down by superior numbers, Castro asked for, and received, a temporary cease-fire on 1 August. Over the next seven days, while fruitless negotiations took place, Castro's forces gradually escaped from the trap. By the 8 August, Castro's entire army had escaped back into the mountains, and Operation Verano had effectively ended in failure for the Batista government.\n\nOn 21 August 1958, after the defeat of Batista's \"Ofensiva\", Castro's forces began their own offensive. In the Oriente province (in the area of the present-day provinces of Santiago de Cuba, Granma, Guantánamo and Holguín), Fidel Castro, Raúl Castro and Juan Almeida Bosque directed attacks on four fronts. Descending from the mountains with new weapons captured during the \"Ofensiva\" and smuggled in by plane, Castro's forces won a series of initial victories. Castro's major victory at Guisa, and the successful capture of several towns including Maffo, Contramaestre, and Central Oriente, brought the Cauto plains under his control.\n\nMeanwhile, three rebel columns, under the command of Che Guevara, Camilo Cienfuegos and Jaime Vega, proceeded westward toward Santa Clara, the capital of Villa Clara Province. Batista's forces ambushed and destroyed Jaime Vega's column, but the surviving two columns reached the central provinces, where they joined forces with several other resistance groups not under the command of Castro. When Che Guevara's column passed through the province of Las Villas, and specifically through the Escambray Mountains – where the anticommunist Revolutionary Directorate forces (who became known as the 13 March Movement) had been fighting Batista's army for many months – friction developed between the two groups of rebels. Nonetheless, the combined rebel army continued the offensive, and Cienfuegos won a key victory in the Battle of Yaguajay on 30 December 1958, earning him the nickname \"The Hero of Yaguajay\".\n\nOn 31 December 1958, the Battle of Santa Clara took place in a scene of great confusion. The city of Santa Clara fell to the combined forces of Che Guevara, Cienfuegos, and Revolutionary Directorate (RD) rebels led by Comandantes Rolando Cubela, Juan (\"El Mejicano\") Abrahantes, and William Alexander Morgan. News of these defeats caused Batista to panic. He fled Cuba by air for the Dominican Republic just hours later on 1 January 1959. Comandante William Alexander Morgan, leading RD rebel forces, continued fighting as Batista departed, and had captured the city of Cienfuegos by 2 January.\n\nCastro learned of Batista's flight in the morning and immediately started negotiations to take over Santiago de Cuba. On the 2nd of January, the military commander in the city, Colonel Rubido, ordered his soldiers not to fight, and Castro's forces took over the city. The forces of Guevara and Cienfuegos entered Havana at about the same time. They had met no opposition on their journey from Santa Clara to Cuba's capital. Castro himself arrived in Havana on 8 January after a long victory march. His initial choice of president, Manuel Urrutia Lleó, took office on 3 January.\n\nThe importance of women's contributions to the Cuban Revolution is reflected in the very accomplishments that allowed the revolution to be successful, from the participation in the Moncada Barracks, to the Mariana Grajales all-women's platoon that served as Fidel Castro's personal security detail. Tete Puebla, second in command of the Mariana Grajales Platoon, has said:\n\nBefore the Mariana Grajales Platoon was established, the revolutionary women of the Sierra Maestra were not organized for combat and primarily helped with cooking, mending clothes, and tending to the sick, frequently acting as couriers, as well as teaching guerillas to read and write.\nHaydée Santamaría and Melba Hernandez were the only women who participated in the attack on the Moncada Barracks, afterward acting alongside Natalia Revuelta, and Lidia Castro (Fidel Castro's sister) to form alliances with anti-Batista organizations, as well as the assembly and distribution of \"History Will Absolve Me\". Celia Sanchez and Vilma Espin were leading strategists and highly skilled combatants who held essential roles throughout the revolution. Tete Puebla, founding member and second in command of the Mariana Grajales Platoon, said of Celia Sanchez, \"When you speak of Celia, you've got to speak of Fidel, and vice versa. Celia's ideas touched almost everything in the Sierra.\n\nOn 15 April 1954, Castro began an 11-day visit to the United States, at the invitation of the American Society of Newspaper Editors. He said during his visit: \"I know the world thinks of us, we are Communists, and of course I have said very clear that we are not Communists; very clear.\"\n\nHundreds of Batista-era agents, policemen and soldiers were put on public trial, accused of human rights abuses, war crimes, murder, and torture. About 200 of the accused people were convicted of political crimes by revolutionary tribunals and then executed by firing squad; others received long sentences of imprisonment. A notable example of revolutionary justice occurred after the capture of Santiago, where Raúl Castro directed the execution of more than seventy Batista POWs. For his part in taking Havana, Che Guevara was appointed supreme prosecutor in La Cabaña Fortress. This was part of a large-scale attempt by Fidel Castro to cleanse the security forces of Batista loyalists and potential opponents of the new revolutionary government. Though many were killed or imprisoned, others were fortunate enough to be dismissed from the army and police without prosecution, and some high-ranking officials of the Batista administration were exiled as military attachés. Most scholars agree that those executed were probably guilty as accused, but the trials did not follow due process.\n\nDuring its first decade in power, the Castro government introduced a wide range of progressive social reforms. Laws were introduced to provide equality for black Cubans and greater rights for women, while there were attempts to improve communications, medical facilities, health, housing, and education. In addition, there were touring cinemas, art exhibitions, concerts, and theatres. By the end of the 1960s, all Cuban children were receiving some education (compared with less than half before 1959), unemployment and corruption were reduced, and great improvements were made in hygiene and sanitation. Fidel dedicated many of his years to the equality among Afro-Cubans and the wealthy white people of Cuba. His anti-discrimination legislation was his first and major attempt to give equality to the people of Cuba. His many reforms (healthcare, education, and equality) gave opportunities to those Afro-Cubans who lived in poverty because of the racial discrimination in Cuba.\n\nCastro's government was entirely based on his ideologies of equality and fair measures for the people of Cuba. After he considered to have done everything in his power toward equality, he passed a legislation that counter-attacked his past anti-discrimination legislation. This law made it illegal to even mention discrimination or the topic of equality.\n\nAccording to geographer and Cuban Comandante Antonio Núñez Jiménez, 75% of Cuba's best arable land was owned by foreign individuals or foreign (mostly American) companies at the time of the revolution. One of the first policies of the newly formed Cuban government was eliminating illiteracy and implementing land reforms. Land reform efforts helped to raise living standards by subdividing larger holdings into cooperatives. Comandante Sori Marin, who was nominally in charge of land reform, objected and fled, but was eventually executed when he returned to Cuba with arms and explosives, intending to overthrow the Castro government.\n\nShortly after taking power, Castro also created a revolutionary militia to expand his power base among the former rebels and the supportive population. Castro also created the informant Committees for the Defense of the Revolution (CDRs) in late September 1960. Local CDRs were tasked with keeping \"vigilance against counter-revolutionary activity\", keeping a detailed record of each neighborhood's inhabitants' spending habits, level of contact with foreigners, work and education history, and any \"suspicious\" behavior. Among the increasingly persecuted groups were homosexual men.\n\nIn February 1959, the Ministry for the Recovery of Misappropriated Assets (\"Ministerio de Recuperación de Bienes Malversados\") was created. Cuba began expropriating land and private property under the auspices of the Agrarian Reform Law of 17 May 1959. Farms of any size could be and were seized by the government, while land, businesses, and companies owned by upper- and middle-class Cubans were nationalized (notably, including the plantations owned by Fidel Castro's family). By the end of 1960, the revolutionary government had nationalized more than $25 billion worth of private property owned by Cubans. The Castro government formally nationalized all foreign-owned property, particularly American holdings, in the nation on 6 August 1960.\n\nIn 1961, the Cuban government nationalized all property held by religious organizations, including the dominant Roman Catholic Church. Hundreds of members of the church, including a bishop, were permanently expelled from the nation, as the new Cuban government declared itself officially atheist. Education also saw significant changes – private schools were banned and the progressively socialist state assumed greater responsibility for children. The Cuban government also began to expropriate from mafia leaders and taking millions in cash. Before Meyer Lansky fled Cuba, he was said to be worth an estimated $20M, that would be $163,685,121 in 2016. When he died in 1983, his family was shocked that his estate was worth less than $10K. Before he died Lansky said Cuba \"ruined\" him.\n\nIn July 1961, the Integrated Revolutionary Organizations (IRO) was formed by the merger of Fidel Castro's 26th of July Movement, the People's Socialist Party led by Blas Roca, and the Revolutionary Directorate of 13 March led by Faure Chomón.\nOn 26 March 1962, the IRO became the United Party of the Cuban Socialist Revolution (PURSC) which, in turn, became the modern Communist Party of Cuba on 3 October 1965, with Castro as First Secretary. Castro remained the ruler of Cuba, first as Prime Minister and, from 1976, as President, until his retirement in February 20, 2008. His brother Raúl officially replaced him as President later that same month.\n\nThe Cuban Revolution was a crucial turning point in U.S.-Cuban relations. Although the United States government was initially willing to recognize Castro's new government, it soon came to fear that Communist insurgencies would spread through the nations of Latin America, as they had in Southeast Asia. Castro, meanwhile, resented the Americans for providing aid to Batista's government during the revolution. After the revolutionary government nationalized all U.S. property in Cuba in August 1960, the American Eisenhower administration froze all Cuban assets on American soil, severed diplomatic ties and tightened its embargo of Cuba. The Key West–Havana ferry shut down. In 1961, the U.S. government backed an armed counterrevolutionary assault on the Bay of Pigs with the aim of ousting Castro, but the counterrevolutionaries were swiftly defeated by the Cuban military. The U.S. Embargo against Cuba – the longest-lasting single foreign policy in American history – is still in force as of 2018, although it has undergone a partial loosening in recent years, although it was recently strengthened in 2017. The U.S. began efforts to normalize relations with Cuba in the mid-2010s, and formally reopened its embassy in Havana after over half a century in August 2015.\n\nCastro's victory and post-revolutionary foreign policy had global repercussions. Influenced by the expansion of the Soviet Union into Europe after the 1917 Russian Revolution, Castro immediately sought to \"export\" his revolution to other countries in the Caribbean and beyond, sending weapons to Algerian rebels as early as 1960. In the following decades, Cuba became heavily involved in supporting Communist insurgencies and independence movements in many developing countries, sending military aid to insurgents in Ghana, Nicaragua, Yemen and Angola, among others. Castro's intervention in the Angolan Civil War in the 1970s and 1980s was particularly significant, involving as many as 60,000 Cuban soldiers.\n\nFollowing the American embargo, the Soviet Union became Cuba's main ally. The two Communist countries quickly developed close military and intelligence ties, culminating in the stationing of Soviet nuclear weapons in Cuba in 1962, an act which triggered the Cuban Missile Crisis. Cuba maintained close links to the Soviets until the Soviet Union's collapse in 1991. The end of Soviet economic aid led to an economic crisis and famine known as the Special Period in Cuba.\n\nIn the wake of the revolution, thousands of disaffected anti-Batista rebels, former Batista supporters, and \"campesinos\" (peasants) fled to Cuba's Las Villas province, where an anticommunist underground had been forming since early 1960. Operating out of the Escambray Mountains, these counterrevolutionary rebels, also known as Alzados, made a number of unsuccessful attempts to overthrow the Cuban government, including the abortive, United States-backed Bay of Pigs Invasion of 1961. In the aftermath of the Cuban Missile Crisis of 1962, the United States promised not to invade Cuba in the future; in compliance with this agreement, the U.S. withdrew all support from the Alzados, effectively crippling the resource-starved resistance. The counterrevolutionary conflict, known abroad as the Escambray Rebellion, lasted until about 1965, and has since been branded the War Against the Bandits by the Cuban government.\n\nBetween 1959 and 1980, an estimated 500,000 Cubans left the island for the United States, for both political and economic reasons; 125,000 left in 1980 alone, when the Cuban government briefly permitted any Cubans who wished to leave to do so. By 2010, the Cuban American community numbered over 1.9 million, 67% of whom lived in the state of Florida. As a voting bloc, Cuban Americans have traditionally been strongly opposed to ending the U.S. embargo of Cuba, but in recent years there has been growing support for diplomatic engagement among the younger generations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32272286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32272286", "title": "Desmond Dudwa Phiri", "text": "Desmond Dudwa Phiri\n\nDesmond Dudwa Phiri, commonly known as D. D. Phiri, is a Malawian author, economist, historian, and playwright. He was born in Mzimba, Malawi, and is the Principal and proprietor of the Aggrey Memorial School in Blantyre. He has published 17 books in the fields of history, sociology and economics and was recognized by the Pan-African Writers' Association (PAWA) as one of the top 23 authors in Africa in 2011. He is a regular colomnist in \"The Nation\" newspaper.\n\nPhiri was born in Mzimba, Malawi. He went to Blantyre Secondary School and Livingstonia and London. He later moved to England and studied Economics, History, and Sociology at the London School of Economics (part of the University of London). He has received an honorary doctorate from the University of Malawi.\n\nHe worked as a diplomat in the foreign service and retired from the civil service in 1976. He is the Principal and Proprietor of Aggrey Memorial School. He is a columnist for the widely read \"The Nation\" newspaper.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28831837", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28831837", "title": "E. F. C. Ludowyk", "text": "E. F. C. Ludowyk\n\nEvelyn Frederick Charles Ludowyk (1906–1985), a Sri Lankan Burgher Shakespearean scholar, author, playwright and critic, was the first Professor of English of the University of Ceylon.\n\nA member of a prominent Dutch Burgher family, Ludowyk studied at Wesley College, Colombo and Richmond College, Galle and went up to Cambridge.\n\nHe joined the staff of University College, Colombo in 1932, becoming professor in 1936.\n\nIn 1940 he met and married Edith Gyömröi.\n\nWhen the University College was converted into the University of Ceylon, Ludowyk was appointed its first Professor of English in 1942. He was made the first Dean of Arts in the newly established University in Peradeniya in 1952.\n\nIn 1956, because the island's humid climate caused Edith problems, the couple moved to London. Later they settled in Colchester.\n\nLudowyk died in Colchester in 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37022165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37022165", "title": "Engaged theory", "text": "Engaged theory\n\nEngaged theory is a methodological framework for understanding social complexity. It takes social life or social relations as its base category, with 'the social' always understood as grounded in 'the natural', including humans as embodied beings. Engaged theory provides a framework that moves from detailed empirical analysis about things, people and processes in the world to abstract theory about the constitution and social framing of those things, people and processes.\n\nEngaged theory is one approach within the broader tradition of critical theory. Engaged theory crosses the fields of sociology, anthropology, political studies, history, philosophy, and global studies. At its most general, the term \"engaged theory\" is used to describe theories that provide a tool box for engaging with the world while seeking to change it.\n\nOne lineage of engaged theory is called the 'constitutive abstraction' approach associated with a group of writers publishing in \"Arena Journal\" such as John Hinkson, Geoff Sharp (1926–2015), and Simon Cooper.\n\nA related lineage of engaged theory has been developed by researchers who began their association through the Centre for Global Research at Royal Melbourne Institute of Technology in Australia – scholars such as Manfred Steger, Paul James and Damian Grenfell – drawing upon a range of writers from Pierre Bourdieu to Benedict Anderson and Charles Taylor. A group of researchers at Western Sydney University describe their work as 'Engaged Research'.\n\nFor all of its concern for epistemological grounding (see below), Engaged theory is an approach that is 'in the world'. All theory in some way affects what happens in the world, but it does not always theorize its own place in the constitution of ideas and practices. Anthony Giddens calls this movement a double hermeneutic. Engaged theory is more explicit than most about its political standpoint. Carol J. Adams expresses one dimension of this when she writes: \n\nHowever, the other important dimension is that any theory needs to be aware of its own tendencies to be ideologically driven by dominant concerns of its day. Liberalism, for example, with its reductive advocacy of the ideology of 'freedom', fails to be reflexive about this dimension. Similarly, critical theory sometimes fails to be reflexive of what it means to be critical or advocate social change.\n\nAll social theories are dependent upon a process of abstraction. This is what philosophers call epistemological abstraction. However, they do not characteristically theorize their own bases for establishing their standpoint. Engaged theory does. By comparison, Grounded theory, a very different approach, suggests that empirical data collection is a neutral process that gives rise to theoretical claims out of that data. Engaged theory, to the contrary, treats such a claim to \"value neutrality\" as naively unsustainable. Engaged theory is thus reflexive in a number of ways: \n\nIn the version of Engaged theory developed by an Australian-based group of writers, analysis moves from the most concrete form of analysis – empirical generalization – to more abstract modes of analysis. Each subsequent mode of analysis is more abstract than the previous one moving across the following themes: 1. doing, 2. acting, 3. relating, 4. being.\n\nThis leads to the 'levels' approach as set out below:\n\nThe method begins by emphasizing the importance of a first-order abstraction, here called \"empirical analysis\". It entails drawing out and generalizing from on-the-ground detailed descriptions of history and place. This first level either involves generating empirical description based on observation, experience, recording or experiment—in other words, abstracting evidence from that which exists or occurs in the world—or it involves drawing upon the empirical research of others. The first level of analytical abstraction is an ordering of ‘things in the world’, in a way that does not depend upon any kind of further analysis being applied to those ‘things’.\n\nFor example, the Circles of Sustainability approach is a form of engaged theory distinguishing (at the level of empirical generalization) between different domains of social life. It can be used for understanding and assessing quality of life. Although that approach is also analytically defended through more abstract theory, the claim that economics, ecology, politics and culture can be distinguished as central domains of social practice has to be defensible at an empirical level. It needs to be useful in analyzing situations on the ground.\n\nThe success or otherwise of the method can be assessed by examining how it is used. One example of use of the method was a project on Papua New Guinea called \"Sustainable Communities, Sustainable Development\".\n\nThis second level of analysis, conjunctural analysis, involves identifying and, more importantly, examining the intersection (the conjunctures) of various patterns of action (practice and meaning). Here the method draws upon established sociological, anthropological and political categories of analysis such as production, exchange, communication, organization and inquiry.\n\nThis third level of entry into discussing the complexity of social relations examines the intersecting modes of social integration and differentiation. These different modes of integration are expressed here in terms of different ways of relating to and distinguishing oneself from others—from the face-to-face to the disembodied. Here we see a break with the dominant emphases of classical social theory and a movement towards a post-classical sensibility. In relation to the nation-state, for example, we can ask how it is possible to explain a phenomenon that, at least in its modern variant, subjectively explains itself by reference to face-to-face metaphors of blood and place—ties of genealogy, kinship and ethnicity—when the objective ‘reality’ of all nation-states is that they are disembodied communities of abstracted strangers who will never meet. This accords with Benedict Anderson's conception of 'imagined communities', but recognizes the contradictory formation of that kind of community.\n\nThis level of enquiry is based upon an exploration of the ontological categories (categories of being such as time and space). If the previous form of analysis emphasizes the different modes through which people live their commonalities with or differences from others, those same themes are examined through more abstract analytical lenses of different grounding forms of life: respectively, embodiment, spatiality, temporality, performativity and epistemology. At this level, generalizations can be made about the dominant modes of categorization in a social formation or in its fields of practice and discourse. It is only at this level that it makes sense to generalize across modes of being and to talk of ontological formations, societies as formed in the uneven dominance of formations of tribalism, traditionalism, modernism or postmodernism.\n\n"}
{"id": "29303904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29303904", "title": "Engineering Heritage Awards", "text": "Engineering Heritage Awards\n\nThe Engineering Heritage Awards, formally known as the \"Engineering Heritage Hallmark Scheme\", were established by the Institution of Mechanical Engineers (IMechE) in 1984 to identify and promote artefacts, locations, collections and landmarks of significant engineering importance.\n\nIn 1984, IMechE launched its Engineering Heritage Hallmark Scheme. For an object or artefact etc. to be considered for an award, an IMechE member would be required to complete a nomination form and submit it to the Institution. Upon submission, two referees would be appointed, one nominated by the Regional Committee where the object is located and a second independent referee. The submissions from both referees would then be reviewed by the Institution's Technical Support department before a decision was taken on the application.\n\nIn 2007, the Institution established the Heritage Committee to relaunch and promote the now renamed Engineering Heritage Awards. It simplified the application process, making it more transparent and with a quicker decision-making process. Furthermore, the criteria were changed, and the Institution's own library and information service became involved in the verification of details being submitted. The Award plaque was also redesigned (see below).\n\nSince 1984, the plaques presented to EHHS and EHA recipients have changed four times. The original plaque was a blue ceramic disc approximately 40 cm in wide. This was replaced in the 1990s by a rectangular steel plate mounted on a wooden base.\n\nWith the launch of the Engineering Heritage Awards in 2008, a new cast plaque was created. This was slightly modified in 2009 to reflect the rebranding of the Institution.\n\n"}
{"id": "11657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11657", "title": "Fashion", "text": "Fashion\n\nFashion is a popular style, especially in clothing, footwear, lifestyle, accessories, makeup, hairstyle and body. Fashion is a distinctive and often constant trend in the style in which people present themselves. A fashion can become the prevailing style in behaviour or manifest the newest creations of designers, technologists, engineers, and design managers.\n\nBecause the more technical term \"costume\" is regularly linked to the term \"fashion\", the use of the former has been relegated to special senses like fancy-dress or masquerade wear, while the word \"fashion\" often refers to clothing, including the study of clothing. Although aspects of fashion can be feminine or masculine, some trends are androgynous.\n\nHigh-flying trendsetters in fashion can aspire to the label \"haute couture\". But if one disapproves of a fashion, one can attempt to dismiss it as a mere fad.\n\nEarly Western travelers, traveling whether to India, Persia, Turkey or China, would frequently remark on the absence of change in fashion in those countries. The Japanese \"shōgun\"s secretary bragged (not completely accurately) to a Spanish visitor in 1609 that Japanese clothing had not changed in over a thousand years. However, there is considerable evidence in Ming China of rapidly changing fashions in Chinese clothing. Changes in costume often took place at times of economic or social change, as occurred in ancient Rome and the medieval Caliphate, followed by a long period without major changes. In 8th-century Moorish Spain, the musician Ziryab introduced to Córdoba sophisticated clothing-styles based on seasonal and daily fashions from his native Baghdad, modified by his own inspiration. Similar changes in fashion occurred in the 11th century in the Middle East following the arrival of the Turks, who introduced clothing styles from Central Asia and the Far East.\n\nThe beginning in Europe of continual and increasingly rapid change in clothing styles can be fairly reliably dated. Historians, including James Laver and Fernand Braudel, date the start of Western fashion in clothing to the middle of the 14th century, though they tend to rely heavily on contemporary imagery and illuminated manuscripts were not common before the fourteenth century. The most dramatic early change in fashion was a sudden drastic shortening and tightening of the male over-garment from calf-length to barely covering the buttocks, sometimes accompanied with stuffing in the chest to make it look bigger. This created the distinctive Western outline of a tailored top worn over leggings or trousers and one of the popular historical fashion was Often referred to as the \"Plume Boom,\" the popularity of wearing real feathers in hats reached its peak in the early 20th century. According to The Smithsonian, women adorned their hats with feathers, wings, and even full taxidermied birds. This caused a huge decline in the bird population, and even led to the exinction of some. Often referred to as the \"Plume Boom,\" the popularity of wearing real feathers in hats reached its peak in the early 20th century. According to The Smithsonian, women adorned their hats with feathers, wings, and even full taxidermied birds. This caused a huge decline in the bird population, and even led to the exinction of some. \n\nThe pace of change accelerated considerably in the following century, and women and men's fashion, especially in the dressing and adorning of the hair, became equally complex. Art historians are therefore able to use fashion with confidence and precision to date images, often to within five years, particularly in the case of images from the 15th century. Initially, changes in fashion led to a fragmentation across the upper classes of Europe of what had previously been a very similar style of dressing and the subsequent development of distinctive national styles. These national styles remained very different until a counter-movement in the 17th to 18th centuries imposed similar styles once again, mostly originating from Ancien Régime France. Though the rich usually led fashion, the increasing affluence of early modern Europe led to the bourgeoisie and even peasants following trends at a distance, but still uncomfortably close for the elites – a factor that Fernand Braudel regards as one of the main motors of changing fashion.\n\nIn the 16th century, national differences were at their most pronounced. Ten 16th century portraits of German or Italian gentlemen may show ten entirely different hats. Albrecht Dürer illustrated the differences in his actual (or composite) contrast of Nuremberg and Venetian fashions at the close of the 15th century (\"illustration, right\"). The \"Spanish style\" of the late 16th century began the move back to synchronicity among upper-class Europeans, and after a struggle in the mid-17th century, French styles decisively took over leadership, a process completed in the 18th century.\n\nThough different textile colors and patterns changed from year to year, the cut of a gentleman's coat and the length of his waistcoat, or the pattern to which a lady's dress was cut, changed more slowly. Men's fashions were largely derived from military models, and changes in a European male silhouette were galvanized in theaters of European war where gentleman officers had opportunities to make notes of foreign styles such as the \"Steinkirk\" cravat or necktie.\n\nThough there had been distribution of dressed dolls from France since the 16th century and Abraham Bosse had produced engravings of fashion in the 1620s, the pace of change picked up in the 1780s with increased publication of French engravings illustrating the latest Paris styles. By 1800, all Western Europeans were dressing alike (or thought they were); local variation became first a sign of provincial culture and later a badge of the conservative peasant.\n\nAlthough tailors and dressmakers were no doubt responsible for many innovations, and the textile industry certainly led many trends, the history of fashion design is normally understood to date from 1858 when the English-born Charles Frederick Worth opened the first true \"haute couture\" house in Paris. The Haute house was the name established by government for the fashion houses that met the standards of industry. These fashion houses have to adhere to standards such as keeping at least twenty employees engaged in making the clothes, showing two collections per year at fashion shows, and presenting a certain number of patterns to costumers and also old fashion is becoming trendy nowadays but with a trendy taste . Since then, the idea of the fashion designer as a celebrity in his or her own right has become increasingly dominant.\n\nThe idea of unisex dressing originated in the 1960s when designers such as Pierre Cardin and Rudi Gernreich created garments, such as stretch jersey tunics or leggings, meant to be worn by both males and females. The impact of unisex expands more broadly to encompass various themes in fashion including androgyny, mass-market retail, and conceptual clothing. The fashion trends of the 1970s, such as sheepskin jackets, flight jackets, duffel coats, and unstructured clothing influenced men to attend social gatherings without a tuxedo jacket and to accessorize in new ways. Some men's styles blended the sensuality and expressiveness despite the conservative trend, the growing gay-rights movement and an emphasis on youth allowed for a new freedom to experiment with style, fabrics such as wool crepe, which had previously been associated with women's attire was used by designers when creating male clothing.\n\nThe four major current fashion capitals are acknowledged to be Paris, Milan, New York City, and London, which are all headquarters to the greatest fashion companies and are renowned for their major influence on global fashion. Fashion weeks are held in these cities, where designers exhibit their new clothing collections to audiences. A succession of major designers such as Coco Chanel and Yves Saint-Laurent have kept Paris as the center most watched by the rest of the world, although \"haute couture\" is now subsidized by the sale of ready-to-wear collections and perfume using the same branding.\n\nModern Westerners have a wide number of choices available in the selection of their clothes. What a person chooses to wear can reflect his or her personality or interests. When people who have high cultural status start to wear new or different clothes, a fashion trend may start. People who like or respect these people become influenced by their personal style and begin wearing similarly styled clothes. Fashions may vary considerably within a society according to age, social class, generation, occupation, and geography and may also vary over time. If an older person dresses according to the fashion young people use, he or she may look ridiculous in the eyes of both young and older people. The terms \"fashionista\" and \"fashion victim\" refer to someone who slavishly follows current fashions.\n\nOne can regard the system of sporting various fashions as a fashion language incorporating various fashion statements using a grammar of fashion. (Compare some of the work of Roland Barthes.)\n\nIn recent years, Asian fashion has become increasingly significant in local and global markets. Countries such as China, Japan, India, and Pakistan have traditionally had large textile industries, which have often been drawn upon by Western designers, but now Asian clothing styles are also gaining influence based on their own ideas.\n\nThe notion of global fashion industry is a product of the modern age. Prior to the mid-19th century, most clothing was custom-made. It was handmade for individuals, either as home production or on order from dressmakers and tailors. By the beginning of the 20th century—with the rise of new technologies such as the sewing machine, the rise of global capitalism and the development of the factory system of production, and the proliferation of retail outlets such as department stores—clothing had increasingly come to be mass-produced in standard sizes and sold at fixed prices.\n\nAlthough the fashion industry developed first in Europe and America, , it is an international and highly globalized industry, with clothing often designed in one country, manufactured in another, and sold worldwide. For example, an American fashion company might source fabric in China and have the clothes manufactured in Vietnam, finished in Italy, and shipped to a warehouse in the United States for distribution to retail outlets internationally. The fashion industry has long been one of the largest employers in the United States, and it remains so in the 21st century. However, U.S. employment declined considerably as production increasingly moved overseas, especially to China. Because data on the fashion industry typically are reported for national economies and expressed in terms of the industry's many separate sectors, aggregate figures for world production of textiles and clothing are difficult to obtain. However, by any measure, the clothing industry accounts for a significant share of world economic output.\nThe fashion industry consists of four levels:\n\n\nThese levels consist of many separate but interdependent sectors. These sectors are Textile Design and Production, Fashion Design and Manufacturing, Fashion Retailing, Marketing and Merchandising, Fashion Shows, and Media and Marketing. Each sector is devoted to the goal of satisfying consumer demand for apparel under conditions that enable participants in the industry to operate at a profit.\n\nFashion trends are influenced by several factors including cinema, celebrities, climate, creative explorations, political, economical, social and technological. Examining these factors is called a PEST analysis. Fashion forecasters can use this information to help determine growth or decline of a particular trend. Fashion trends change daily, it can not stay unchanged\n\nNot only did political events make a huge impact on fashion trends but also the political figure played a critical role in forecasting the fashion trend. For example, First Lady Jacqueline Kennedy was a fashionable icon of the early 1960s who led formal dressing trend. By wearing a Chanel suit, a structural Givenchy shift dress or a soft color Cassini coat with huge buttons, it created her elegant look and led a delicate trend.\n\nFurthermore, political revolution also made much impact on the fashion trend. For example, during the 1960s the economy had become wealthier, divorce rate was increasing and government approved the birth control pill. This revolution inspired younger generation to rebellion. In 1964, the leg-baring miniskirt has become a major fashion trend of the 1960s. Given that fashion designers began to experiment with the shapes of garment, loose sleeveless, micro-minis, flared skirts, and trumpet sleeves. In this case, mini-skirt trend became an icon of the 1960s.\n\nMoreover, political movement built an impressive relationship with fashion trend. For instance, during Vietnam war, the youth of America made a movement that affected the whole country. In the 1960s, the fashion trend was full of fluorescent colors, prints patterns, bell-bottom jeans, fringed vests, and skirt became a protest outfit of the 1960s. This trend was called Hippie and it is still affecting current fashion trend.\n\nTechnology plays a large role in most aspects of today's society. Technological influences are growing more apparent in the fashion industry. Advances and new developments are shaping and creating current and future trends.\n\nDevelopments such as wearable technology have become an important trend in fashion and will continue with advances such as clothing constructed with solar panels that charge devices and smart fabrics that enhance wearer comfort by changing color or texture based on environmental changes.\n\nThe fashion industry is seeing how 3D printing technology has influenced designers such as Iris Van Herpen and Kimberly Ovitz. These designers have been heavily experimenting and developing 3D printed couture pieces. As the technology grows, the 3D printers will become more accessible to designers and eventually consumers, which could potentially shape the fashion industry entirely.\n\nInternet technology such as online retailers and social media platforms have given way for trends to be identified, marketed and sold immediately. Styles and trends are easily conveyed online to attract the trendsetters. Posts on Instagram or Facebook can easily increase awareness about new trends in fashion, which subsequently may create high demand for specific items or brands, new \"buy now button\" technology can link these styles with direct sales.\n\nMachine vision technology has been developed to track how fashions spread through society. The industry can now see the direct correlation on how fashion shows influence street-chic outfits. The effects can now be quantified and provide valuable feedback to fashion houses, designers and consumers regarding trends.\n\nMilitary technology has played an important role in the fashion industry. The camouflage pattern in clothing was developed to help military personnel be less visible to enemy forces. A trend emerged in the 1960s and camouflage fabric was introduced to street wear. The camouflage fabric trend disappeared and resurfaced several times since then. Camouflage started to appear in high fashion by the 1990s. Designers such as Valentino, Dior and Dolce & Gabbana combined camouflage into their runway and ready-to-wear collections.\n\nClothing is much more than fashion, it is a style of life an expression of ones self. Social media is one of the biggest platforms to exhibit and connect fashion trends with millions of people all at once worldwide. Fashion trend goes beyond the aesthetic values, it emerges as an expressive tool for designers to deliver their message about the society. With the influence of social media, celebrities and bloggers, their voice are easily being heard and have impact on fashion and trend at any time.\nFashion and music are inseparable. Prabal Gurung highlighted the importance of music to his shows, saying \"each season we want to tell a story for 10 minutes…. the perfect harmony between cloths and music allows this\". Music is a representation of fashion that expresses the abstract design concept into relatable harmony for viewers.\n\nFashion relates to social and cultural context of an environment. According to Matika, \"Elements of popular culture become fused when a person's trend is associated with a preference for a genre of music…like music, news or literature, fashion has been fused into everyday lives.\" Fashion is not only seen as pure aesthetic values; fashion is also a medium for performers to create an overall atmosphere and express their opinions altogether through music video. The latest music video ‘Formation’ by Beyoncé, according to Carlos, \"The pop star pays homage to her Creole root... tracing the roots of the Louisiana cultural nerve center from the post-abolition era to present day, Beyoncé catalogs the evolution of the city's vibrant style and its tumultuous history all at once. Atop a New Orleans police car in a red-and-white Gucci high-collar dress and combat boots, she sits among the ruins of Hurricane Katrina, immediately implanting herself in the biggest national debate on police brutality and race relations in modern day.\"\n\nRunway show is a reflection of fashion trend and a designer's thought. For designer like Vivienne Westwood, runway show is a platform for her voice on politics and current events. For her AW15 menswear show, according to Water, \"where models with severely bruised faces channeled eco-warriors on a mission to save the planet.\" Another recent example is a staged feminist protest march for Chanel's SS15 show, rioting models chanting words of empowerment with signs like \"Feminist but feminine\" and \"Ladies first.\" According to Water, \"The show tapped into Chanel's long history of championing female independence: founder Coco Chanel was a trailblazer for liberating the female body in the post-WWI era, introducing silhouettes that countered the restrictive corsets then in favour.\"\n\nAs we undergo a global economic downturn, the \"Spend now, think later\" belief is getting less relevant in our society. Today's consumer tends to be more mindful about consumption, looking for just enough and better, more durable options. People have also become more conscious of the impact their everyday consumption has on the environment and society. They're looking for ways to mediate their material desires with an aim to do more good in the world. A linear economy is slowly shifting to a circular one.\n\nIn today's linear economical system, manufacturers extract resources from the earth to make products that will soon be discarded in landfills, on the other hand, under the circular model, the production of goods operates like systems in nature, where the waste and demise of a substance becomes the food and source of growth for something new. Companies such as MUD Jeans, which is based in the Netherlands employs a leasing scheme for jeans. This Dutch company \"represents a new consuming philosophy that is about using instead of owning,\" according to MUD's website. The concept also protects the company from volatile cotton prices. Consumers pay €7.50 a month for a pair of jeans; after a year, they can return the jeans to Mud, trade them for a new pair and start another year-long lease, or keep them. MUD is responsible for any repairs during the lease period. Another ethical fashion company, Patagonia set up the first multi-seller branded store on EBay in order to facilitate secondhand sales; consumers who take the Common Threads pledge can sell in this store and have their gear listed on Patagonia.com's \"Used Gear\" section.\n\nConsumption as a share of gross domestic product in China has fallen for six decades, from 76 percent in 1952 to 28 percent in 2011. China plans to reduce tariffs on a number of consumer goods and expand its 72-hour transit visa plan to more cities in an effort to stimulate domestic consumption.\n\nThe announcement of import tax reductions follows changes in June 2015, when the government cut the tariffs on clothing, cosmetics and various other goods by half. Among the changes — easier tax refunds for overseas shoppers and accelerated openings of more duty-free shops in cities covered by the 72-hour visa scheme. The 72-hour visa was introduced in Beijing and Shanghai in January 2013 and has been extended to 18 Chinese cities.\n\nAccording to reports at the same time, Chinese consumer spending in other countries such as Japan has slowed even though the yen has dropped. There is clearly a trend in the next 5 years that the domestic fashion market will show an increase.\n\nConsumers all have different needs and demands that have to be suited. A person's needs change frequently. An important factor to take into consideration when thinking of consumers' needs is the key demographics of the customer. Gender, age, income, and even profession can help a company better understand the needs of their customers.\n\nFor example, a woman who is pregnant could be looking for diapers, baby strollers, and maternity clothes. Her needs would differ greatly from a woman with children that just went off to college or a teen entering high school.\n\nOften consumers need to be told what they want. Fashion companies have to do their research to ensure they know their customers' needs before developing solutions. Steve Jobs said, \"You’ve got to start with the customer experience and work backwards to the technology. You cannot start with the technology and try to figure out where you are going to sell it\".\n\nThe best way to understand the consumers' needs and therefore predict fashion trends is through market research. There are two research methods: primary and secondary. Secondary methods are taking other information that has already been collected, for example using a book or an article for research. Primary research is collecting data through surveys, interviews, observation, and/or focus groups.\n\nBenefits of primary research is specific information about a fashion brand's consumer is explored. Surveys are helpful tools; questions can be open-ended or closed-ended. A negative factor surveys and interviews present is that the answers can be biased, due to wording in the survey or on face-to-face interactions. Focus groups, about 8 to 12 people, can be beneficial because several points can be addressed in depth. However, there are drawbacks to this tactic, too. With such a small sample size, it is hard to know if the greater public would react the same way as the focus group. Observation can really help a company gain insight on what a consumer truly wants. There is less of a bias because consumers are just performing their daily tasks, not necessarily realizing they are being observed. For example, observing the public by taking street style photos of people, the consumer did not get dressed in the morning knowing that would have their photo taken necessarily. They just wear what they would normally wear. Through observation patterns can be seen, helping trend forecasters know what their target market needs and wants.\n\nKnowing the needs of the consumers will increase a fashion companies' sales and profits. Through research and studying the consumers' lives the needs of the customer can be obtained and help fashion brands know what trends the consumers are ready for.\n\nFashion breathes on media and medium .\nThe media plays a significant role when it comes to fashion. For instance, an important part of fashion is fashion journalism. Editorial critique, guidelines, and commentary can be found on television and in magazines, newspapers, fashion websites, social networks, and fashion blogs. In recent years, fashion blogging and YouTube videos have become a major outlet for spreading trends and fashion tips, creating an online culture of sharing one's style on a website or Instagram account. Through these media outlets readers and viewers all over the world can learn about fashion, making it very accessible.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, fashion magazines began to include photographs of various fashion designs and became even more influential than in the past. In cities throughout the world these magazines were greatly sought after and had a profound effect on public taste in clothing. Talented illustrators drew exquisite fashion plates for the publications which covered the most recent developments in fashion and beauty. Perhaps the most famous of these magazines was \"La Gazette du Bon Ton\", which was founded in 1912 by Lucien Vogel and regularly published until 1925 (with the exception of the war years).\n\"Vogue\", founded in the United States in 1892, has been the longest-lasting and most successful of the hundreds of fashion magazines that have come and gone. Increasing affluence after World War II and, most importantly, the advent of cheap color printing in the 1960s, led to a huge boost in its sales and heavy coverage of fashion in mainstream women's magazines, followed by men's magazines in the 1990s. One such example of \"Vogue\"'s popularity is the younger version, \"Teen Vogue\", which covers clothing and trends that are targeted more toward the \"fashionista on a budget\". Haute couture designers followed the trend by starting ready-to-wear and perfume lines which are heavily advertised in the magazines and now dwarf their original couture businesses. A recent development within fashion print media is the rise of text-based and critical magazines which aim to prove that fashion is not superficial, by creating a dialogue between fashion academia and the industry. Examples of this trend are: \"Fashion Theory\" (1997) and \"Vestoj\" (2009). Television coverage began in the 1950s with small fashion features. In the 1960s and 1970s, fashion segments on various entertainment shows became more frequent, and by the 1980s, dedicated fashion shows such as \"Fashion Television\" started to appear. \"FashionTV\" was the pioneer in this undertaking and has since grown to become the leader in both Fashion Television and new media channels. The Fashion Industry is beginning to promote their styles through Bloggers on social media's. Vogue specified Chiara Ferragni as \"blogger of the moment\" due to the rises of followers through her Fashion Blog, that became popular.\n\nA few days after the 2010 Fall Fashion Week in New York City came to a close, \"The New Islander\"'s Fashion Editor, Genevieve Tax, criticized the fashion industry for running on a seasonal schedule of its own, largely at the expense of real-world consumers. \"Because designers release their fall collections in the spring and their spring collections in the fall, fashion magazines such as \"Vogue\" always and only look forward to the upcoming season, promoting parkas come September while issuing reviews on shorts in January\", she writes. \"Savvy shoppers, consequently, have been conditioned to be extremely, perhaps impractically, farsighted with their buying.\"\n\nThe fashion industry has been the subject of numerous films and television shows, including the reality show \"Project Runway\" and the drama series \"Ugly Betty\". Specific fashion brands have been featured in film, not only as product placement opportunities, but as bespoke items that have subsequently led to trends in fashion.\n\nVideos in general have been very useful in promoting the fashion industry. This is evident not only from television shows directly spotlighting the fashion industry, but also movies, events and music videos which showcase fashion statements as well as promote specific brands through product placements.\n\nFashion public relations involves being in touch with a company's audiences and creating strong relationships with them, reaching out to media and initiating messages that project positive images of the company. Social media plays an important role in modern-day fashion public relations; enabling practitioners to reach a wide range of consumers through various platforms.\n\nBuilding brand awareness and credibility is a key implication of good public relations. In some cases, great hype is built about new designers' collections before they are released into the market, due to the immense exposure generated by practitioners. Social media, such as blogs, micro blogs, podcasts, photo and video sharing sites have all become increasingly important to fashion public relations. The interactive nature of these platforms allows practitioners to engage and communicate with publics in real time, and tailor their clients' brand or campaign messages to the target audience. With blogging platforms such as Instagram, Tumblr, Wordpress, and other sharing sites, bloggers have emerged as expert fashion commentators, shaping brands and having a great impact on what is ‘on trend’. Women in the fashion public relations industry such as Sweaty Betty PR founder Roxy Jacenko and Oscar de la Renta's PR girl Erika Bearman, have acquired copious followers on their social media sites, by providing a brand identity and a behind the scenes look into the companies they work for.\n\nSocial media is changing the way practitioners deliver messages, as they are concerned with the media, and also customer relationship building. PR practitioners must provide effective communication among all platforms, in order to engage fashion publics in an industry socially connected via online shopping. Consumers have the ability to share their purchases on their personal social media pages (such as Facebook, Twitter, Instagram, etc.), and if practitioners deliver the brand message effectively and meet the needs of its publics, word-of-mouth publicity will be generated and potentially provide a wide reach for the designer and their products.\n\nAnthropology, the study of culture and human societies, studies fashion by asking why certain styles are deemed socially appropriate and others are not. A certain way is chosen and that becomes the fashion as defined by a certain people as a whole, so if a particular style has a meaning in an already occurring set of beliefs that style will become fashion. According to Ted Polhemus and Lynn Procter, fashion can be described as adornment, of which there are two types: fashion and anti-fashion. Through the capitalization and commoditisation of clothing, accessories, and shoes, etc., what once constituted anti-fashion becomes part of fashion as the lines between fashion and anti-fashion are blurred.\n\nThe definition of fashion and anti-fashion is as follows: Anti-fashion is fixed and changes little over time. Anti-fashion is different depending on the cultural or social group one is associated with or where one lives, but within that group or locality the style changes little. Fashion is the exact opposite of anti-fashion. Fashion changes very quickly and is not affiliated with one group or area of the world but is spread out throughout the world wherever people can communicate easily with each other. For example, Queen Elizabeth II's 1953 coronation gown is an example of anti-fashion because it is traditional and does not change over any period whereas a gown from fashion designer Dior's collection of 1953 is fashion because the style will change every season as Dior comes up with a new gown to replace the old one. In the Dior gown the length, cut, fabric, and embroidery of the gown change from season to season. Anti-fashion is concerned with maintaining the status quo while fashion is concerned with social mobility. Time is expressed in terms of continuity in anti-fashion and as change in fashion. Fashion has changing modes of adornment while anti-fashion has fixed modes of adornment. Indigenous and peasant modes of adornment are an example of anti-fashion. Change in fashion is part of the larger system and is structured to be a deliberate change in style.\n\nToday, people in rich countries are linked to people in poor countries through the commoditization and consumption of what is called fashion. People work long hours in one area of the globe to produce things that people in another part of the globe are anxious to consume. An example of this is the chain of production and consumption of Nike shoes, which are produced in Taiwan and then purchased in North America. At the production end, there is nation-building a hard working ideology that leads people to produce and entices people to consume with a vast amount of goods for the offering. Commodities are no longer just utilitarian but are fashionable, be they running shoes or sweat suits.\n\nThe change from anti-fashion to fashion because of the influence of western consumer-driven civilization can be seen in eastern Indonesia. The ikat textiles of the Ngada area of eastern Indonesia are changing because of modernization and development. Traditionally, in the Ngada area there was no idea similar to that of the Western idea of fashion, but anti-fashion in the form of traditional textiles and ways to adorn oneself were widely popular. Textiles in Indonesia have played many roles for the local people. Textiles defined a person's rank and status; certain textiles indicated being part of the ruling class. People expressed their ethnic identity and social hierarchy through textiles. Because some Indonesians bartered ikat textiles for food, the textiles constituted economic goods, and as some textile design motifs had spiritual religious meanings, textiles were also a way to communicate religious messages.\n\nIn eastern Indonesia, both the production and use of traditional textiles have been transformed as the production, use and value associated with textiles have changed due to modernization. In the past, women produced the textiles either for home consumption or to trade with others. Today, this has changed as most textiles are not being produced at home. Western goods are considered modern and are valued more than traditional goods, including the sarong, which retain a lingering association with colonialism. Now, sarongs are used only for rituals and ceremonial occasions, whereas western clothes are worn to church or government offices. Civil servants working in urban areas are more likely than peasants to make the distinction between western and traditional clothes. Following Indonesia's independence from the Dutch, people increasingly started buying factory made shirts and sarongs. In textile-producing areas the growing of cotton and production of naturally colored thread became obsolete. Traditional motifs on textiles are no longer considered the property of a certain social class or age group. Wives of government officials are promoting the use of traditional textiles in the form of western garments such as skirts, vests and blouses. This trend is also being followed by the general populace, and whoever can afford to hire a tailor is doing so to stitch traditional ikat textiles into western clothes. Thus, traditional textiles are now fashion goods and are no longer confined to the black, white and brown colour palette but come in array of colours. Traditional textiles are also being used in interior decorations and to make handbags, wallets and other accessories, which are considered fashionable by civil servants and their families. There is also a booming tourist trade in the eastern Indonesian city of Kupang where international as well as domestic tourists are eager to purchase traditionally printed western goods.\n\nThe use of traditional textiles for fashion is becoming big business in eastern Indonesia, but these traditional textiles are losing their ethnic identity markers and are being used as an item of fashion.\n\nIn the fashion industry, intellectual property is not enforced as it is within the film industry and music industry. Robert Glariston, an intellectual property expert, mentioned in a fashion seminar held in LA that \"Copyright law regarding clothing is a current hot-button issue in the industry. We often have to draw the line between designers being inspired by a design and those outright stealing it in different places.\" To take inspiration from others' designs contributes to the fashion industry's ability to establish clothing trends. For the past few years, WGSN has been a dominant source of fashion news and forecasts in encouraging fashion brands worldwide to be inspired by one another. Enticing consumers to buy clothing by establishing new trends is, some have argued, a key component of the industry's success. Intellectual property rules that interfere with this process of trend-making would, in this view, be counter-productive. On the other hand, it is often argued that the blatant theft of new ideas, unique designs, and design details by larger companies is what often contributes to the failure of many smaller or independent design companies.\n\nSince fakes are distinguishable by their poorer quality, there is still a demand for luxury goods, and as only a trademark or logo can be copyrighted, many fashion brands make this one of the most visible aspects of the garment or accessory. In handbags, especially, the designer's brand may be woven into the fabric (or the lining fabric) from which the bag is made, making the brand an intrinsic element of the bag.\n\nIn 2005, the World Intellectual Property Organization (WIPO) held a conference calling for stricter intellectual property enforcement within the fashion industry to better protect small and medium businesses and promote competitiveness within the textile and clothing industries.\n\nThere has been great debate about politics' place in fashion and traditionally, the fashion industry has maintained a rather apolitical stance. Considering the U.S.'s political climate in the surrounding months of the 2016 presidential election, during 2017 fashion weeks in London, Milan, New York, Paris and São Paulo amongst others, many designers took the opportunity to take political stances leveraging their platforms and influence to reach the masses.\n\nAiming to “amplify a greater message of unity, inclusion, diversity, and feminism in a fashion space”, Mara Hoffman invited the founders of the \"Women's March on Washington\" to open her show which featured modern silhouettes of utilitarian wear, described by critics as “Made for a modern warrior” and “Clothing for those who still have work to do”. Prabal Gurung debuted his collection of T-shirts featuring slogans such as “The Future is Female”, “We Will Not Be Silenced”, and “Nevertheless She Persisted”, with proceeds going to the ACLU, Planned Parenthood, and Gurung's own charity, “Shikshya Foundation Nepal”. Similarly, \"The Business of Fashion\" launched the \"#TiedTogether\" movement on Social Media, encouraging member of the industry from editors to models, to wear a white bandana advocating for “unity, solidarity, and inclusiveness during fashion week”.\n\nFashion may be used to promote a cause, such as to promote healthy behavior, to raise money for a cancer cure, or to raise money for local charities such as the Juvenile Protective Association or a children's hospice.\n\nOne fashion cause is trashion, which is using trash to make clothes, jewelery, and other fashion items in order to promote awareness of pollution. There are a number of modern trashion artists such as Marina DeBris, Ann Wizer, and Nancy Judd.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26266501", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26266501", "title": "Foxfire (magazine)", "text": "Foxfire (magazine)\n\nThe Foxfire magazine began in 1966, written and published as a quarterly American magazine by students at Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School, a private secondary education school located in the U.S. state of Georgia. At the time Foxfire began, Rabun Gap Nacoochee School was also operating as a public secondary education school for students who were residents of northern Rabun County, Georgia. An example of experiential education, the magazine had articles based on the students' interviews with local people about aspects and practices in Appalachian culture. They captured oral history, craft traditions, and other material about the culture. When the articles were collected and published in book form in 1972, it became a bestseller nationally and gained attention for the Foxfire project.\n\nThe magazine was named for foxfire, a term for a naturally occurring bioluminescence in fungi in the forests of North Georgia. In 1977, the Foxfire project moved from the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School to the newly built and consolidated public Rabun County High School. Additional books were published, and with profits from magazine and book sales, the students created a not-for-profit educational and literary organization and a museum. The Foxfire program has been shifted from the English to the business curriculum. Nationally, the Foxfire model has inspired numerous school systems to develop their own experiential education programs.\n\nIn 1966, Eliot Wigginton and his students in an English class at the Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School initiated a project to engage students in writing. The class decided to publish a magazine over the course of the semester. Its articles were the product of the students' interviewing their relatives and local citizens about how lifestyles had changed over the course of their lives and dealt with traditions in the rural area. First published in 1966, the magazine covers topics of the lifestyle, culture, crafts, and skills of people in southern Appalachia. The content is written as a mixture of how-to information, first-person narratives, oral history, and folklore.\n\nThe Foxfire project has published \"Foxfire\" magazine continuously since 1966. In 1972, the first of the highly popular \"Foxfire\" books was published, which collected published articles as well as new material. Both the magazine and books are based on the stories and life of elders and students, featuring advice and personal stories about subjects as wide-ranging as hog dressing, faith healing, blacksmithing, and Appalachian local and regional history. Foxfire moved from Rabun Gap-Nacoochee School to Rabun County High School in 1977.\n\nOne of the most famous contacts in the Foxfire books was a woman named Arie Carpenter, also known as \"Aunt Arie.\"\n\nThe Foxfire books are a series of copyrighted anthologies of articles originally written for \"Foxfire\" magazine, along with additional content not suitable for the magazine format. Though first conceived primarily as a sociological work, recounting oral traditions, the books, particularly the early ones, were a commercial success as instructional works.\n\nMembers of the 1970s back-to-the-land movement used the books as a basis to return to lives of simplicity. The first book was published in 1972 as \"The Foxfire Book\". This was followed by an additional 11 books, titled in sequence \"Foxfire 2\" through \"Foxfire 12\". The students have published several additional specialty books under the Foxfire name, some of which have been published by the University of North Carolina Press.\n\nPublished by Random House-Anchor, the magazine and anthologies have become a continuing project of The Foxfire Fund, Inc.\n\n\n\nThe students used some of their revenues to set up the Foxfire Fund, a not-for-profit educational and literary organization in Rabun County, Georgia. It encourages use of the stories and practical instructions from the local people of Appalachia to teach and promote a self-sufficient, self-reflective way of life.\n\nRabun County students, who saw their project revenues increasing as a result of the Foxfire books' best-seller status, also decided to create a museum. They purchased a tract of land on Black Rock Mountain, in Mountain City, Georgia. They founded a museum of Appalachian culture there. Students helped move and reconstruct a variety of log homes, a grist mill, and more, to preserve aspects of the traditional Appalachian way of life. The Foxfire Fund headquarters are also located at 200 Foxfire Lane, Mountain City, Georgia.\n\nIn 1989, Eliot Wigginton was awarded a MacArthur Foundation fellowship for his work with the Foxfire project. Wigginton had developed the Foxfire educational philosophy based on experiential education.\n\nWigginton originally thought of the student-produced magazine as a way to help his high school freshmen see the relevance of good English skills. As he and they developed the journals, over several years he began to develop a full teaching approach (a.k.a. the Foxfire approach), which features 11 core principles, related to the philosopher John Dewey's concepts of experiential education. The Foxfire Fund contributed to such development. During the late 1960s through the 1980s, the success of Foxfire inspired many United States schools to develop similar programs. By 1998, it had been adopted by 37 school systems. The Foxfire Fund started offering teacher training programs to support such efforts.\n\nFoxfire continues to train educators in its constructivist methods, which begins with the assertion that students must construct meaning for themselves, rather than memorizing information a teacher deems important. Foxfire and other constructivist approaches to teaching propose that by constructing their own meaning, establishing relationships, and seeing the connection of what they do in the classroom to \"the real world,\" students are better able to learn.\n\nAs a result of changing ideas in education, Rabun County High School has moved the Foxfire magazine/book class from English to the business curriculum. In addition, students are no longer as involved in operations of the museum as they once were.\n\nThe museum is being assisted by the University of Georgia to archive and preserve its extensive materials from more than 30 years of research. In 1998, the University of Georgia anthropology department started to work with the Foxfire project. The collection is held at one of the cabins of the museum complex and includes \"2,000 hours of interviews on audio tape, 30,000 black and white pictures and hundreds of hours of videotape.\" By improving how the material is archived and establishing a database, the university believes the materials can be made more easily available for scholars.\n\nThe books cover a wide range of topics, many to do with crafts, tools, music and other aspects of traditional life skills and culture in Appalachia. These include making apple butter, banjos, basket weaving, beekeeping, butter churning, corn shucking, dulcimers, faith healing, Appalachian folk magic, fiddle making, haints, American ginseng cultivation, long rifle and flintlock making, hide tanning, hog dressing, hunting tales, log cabin building, moonshining, midwives, old-time burial customs, planting \"by the signs\", preserving foods, sassafras tea, snake handling and lore, soap making, spinning, square dancing, wagon making, weaving, wild food gathering, witches, and wood carving.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40227952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40227952", "title": "Gala (priests)", "text": "Gala (priests)\n\nThe Gala (Sumerian: \"gala\", Akkadian: \"kalû\") were priests of the Sumerian goddess Inanna, significant numbers of the personnel of both temples and palaces, the central institutions of Mesopotamian city states, individuals with neither male nor female gender identities.\n\nOriginally a specialist in singing lamentations, gala appear in temple records dating back from the middle of the 3rd millennium BC. According to an old Babylonian text, Enki created the gala specifically to sing \"heart-soothing laments\" for the goddess Inanna. Cuneiform references indicate the gendered character of the role. Lamentation and wailing originally may have been female professions, so that men who entered the role adopted its forms. Their hymns were sung in a Sumerian dialect known as \"eme-sal\", normally used to render the speech of female gods, and some gala took female names. Homosexual proclivities are clearly implied by the Sumerian proverb that reads, \"When the gala wiped off his anus [he said], ‘I must not arouse that which belongs to my mistress [i.e., Inanna]’ \". In fact, the word \"gala\" was written using the sign sequence UŠ.KU, the first sign having also the reading giš (\"penis\"), and the second one dur (\"anus\"), so perhaps there is some pun involved. Moreover, gala is homophonous with gal-la \"vulva\". However, in spite of all their references of their effeminate character (especially in the Sumerian proverbs), many administrative texts mention gala priests who had children, wives, and large families. On the other hand, some gala priests were actually women.\n\n"}
{"id": "41230250", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41230250", "title": "Giacomo Arditi", "text": "Giacomo Arditi\n\nThe marquess Giacomo Arditi of Castelvetere (Presicce, March 21, 1815 – July 1891) was an Italian historian, economist and writer, nephew of the archaeologist Michele Arditi.\n\nGiacomo Arditi is best known for his work \"La Corografia fisica et storica della provincia di Terra d'Otranto\", the most ponderous encyclopedic work that has ever succeeded to provide a complete portrait of the province of Salento, the unification of Italy, and the proclamation of Rome as the capital of the Kingdom of Italy. Arditi was the member of numerous academies, member of the Archaeological Commission of the province of Lecce, being royal inspector of antiquities and monuments, President of the Provincial Deputation and Vice-intendent of the District of Gallipoli.\n\n"}
{"id": "1027324", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1027324", "title": "Gold Star Wives of America", "text": "Gold Star Wives of America\n\nThe Gold Star Wives of America is a private nonprofit organization formed before the end of World War II to provide support for the spouses and children of those who lost their lives while serving in the Armed Forces of the United States. The first meeting was on April 5, 1945, when four young widows met in Marie Jordan's apartment on West 20th Street in New York City. One week later, President Franklin D. Roosevelt died. Shortly thereafter, Eleanor Roosevelt, the widow of the Commander-in-Chief, joined the organization. Mrs. Roosevelt was most helpful in the early days of the organization. She attended meetings, wrote about the organization in her \"My Day\" column, entertained children of Gold Star Wives at a picnic at her home in Hyde Park, New York, served on the first board of directors, and was one of the original 15 signers when the organization was chartered as a non-profit organization in the State of New York in December 1945. The group holds a congressional charter under Title 36 of the United States Code under Public Law 96-497.\n\nFrom the outset, the organization sponsored a variety of activities for the children, and guided them as they formed their own auxiliary of the organization called the Gold Star Sons and Daughters.\n\nGold Star Wives groups were soon organized in other cities throughout the country, and were chartered as chapters of the Gold Star Wives of America, Inc. The Korean War, Vietnam, the Gulf War, Afghanistan and Iraq brought in new groups of widows (widowers). Added to the survivors of service personnel killed in action are thousands who die each year from service connected causes. Remarried widows are eligible for membership.\n\nCurrently there are members, and local chapters, in all parts of the United States. The country is divided into eight regions. Region conferences are held in the spring where recommendations originate for presentation to the national convention held each year, usually in July. In addition, an Appreciation Award Reception is held in Washington, D.C. in late May honoring those who have shown that they have gratefully remembered those who gave their lives in the service of our country, and their survivors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38482612", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38482612", "title": "J.F. Normano", "text": "J.F. Normano\n\nJ. F. Normano (also known as John F. Normano, João Frederico Normano; true name: Isaac Ilyich Levin, Russian: Исаак Ильич Левин) (12 July 1887 – 25 April 1945) was a Russian-American economic historian and banker.\n\nIsaac Levin was born in Kiev and grew up in the Russian/Ukrainian Jewish community. He studied at the Saint Petersburg State Polytechnical University, where his main teacher was Peter Berngardovich Struve.\n\nLevin began in banking. Politically, he was close to the liberal Kadets. For the newspaper \"Nash Vek\", he wrote a critical article on Lenin’s economic thinking.\n\nHe left Russia for Finland and moved to “Russian Berlin” in 1921. There, by 1926, he had accumulated sufficient capital to buy a private bank. Levin’s bank become insolvent in 1929.\n\nAfter moving to Paris, he left for Brazil, called himself João Frederico Normano (i.e. John Frederic Normano) and claimed to be 40 years old. This double passport-forgery was tailored to help him become a junior scientist at Harvard. He became the associate director of the Harvard Bureau of Economic Research in Latin America and published a book that some consider essential to the theory of Brazilian economic development. In December 1932, his real identity was discovered. After the Nazi rise to power, the “Normano Case” led to foreign political conflict. The German Foreign Office demanded his extradition, but the US government was pressured by the Jewish Community. Levin was not forced to leave the United States. He was expelled from Harvard. As of 1941 he focused on lecturing and research with a Pacific emphasis. However, before he could become really influential in this area, he died in April 1945. In the literature of the Stalin era, he was only briefly mentioned in a systemic ideological classification. In 2010 a book about him was published in Moscow, with reprints of his works.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55744885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55744885", "title": "J. H. S. Burleigh", "text": "J. H. S. Burleigh\n\nThe Very Rev John Henderson Seaforth Burleigh (1894–1985) was a Scottish minister and biblical scholar who served as Moderator of the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland in 1960. He was Honorary President of the Scottish Church History Society. In authorship he is usually referred to as \"J. H. S. Burleigh\".\n\nHe was born in the manse at Ednam in the Scottish Borders in 1894 the son of Rev Burleigh. He was educated at Kelso High School and George Watson's College in Edinburgh. He studied Classics at Edinburgh University graduating in 1915.\n\nIn the First World War he served in the King's Own Scottish Borderers. Returning to Edinburgh University after the war he changed to Divinity and graduated a Bachelor of Divinity (BD) in 1920. He then undertook postgraduate studies researching Jan Huss in various European centres: Paris, Strasbourg, Prague and Oxford.\n\nFrom 1931 to 1964 he was Professor of Ecclesiastical History at Edinburgh University, also acting as Dean of the Faculty of Divinity from 1956.\n\nAs Moderator he was succeeded in 1961 by Archibald Campbell Craig.\n\nHe retired in 1964 and died in Peebles on 22 March 1985.\n\n"}
{"id": "27173414", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27173414", "title": "John Knight Fotheringham", "text": "John Knight Fotheringham\n\nJohn Knight Fotheringham FBA (14 August 1874 – 12 December 1936) was a British historian who was an expert on ancient astronomy and chronology. He established the chronology of the Babylonian dynasties.\n\nJ.K. Fotheringham was educated at the City of London School and Merton College, Oxford, where he held an exhibition and received first class degrees in Literae Humaniores (1896) and modern history (1897). During 1898–1902, he held a senior demyship at Magdalen College, Oxford, and started to study ancient chronology. In 1904, he was appointed a lecturer in classical literature at King's College London and taught there until 1915.\n\nFotheringham was a Fellow at Magdalen College (1909–16). He was a Reader in ancient history at the University of London (1912–20). He was later Reader in ancient astronomy and chronology at the University of Oxford (1925–36).\n\nJ.K. Fotheringham edited Saint Jerome's version of Eusebius' Chronicle in 1923.\nHe was elected a Fellow of the British Academy in 1933. He was also a Fellow of the Royal Astronomical Society.\n\nFotheringham published a number of papers and books, including the following:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "44996258", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=44996258", "title": "John McCraw", "text": "John McCraw\n\nJohn Davidson McCraw (13 March 1925 – 14 December 2014) was a New Zealand pedologist, academic, and local historian, particularly of the Central Otago area. The McCraw Glacier in Antarctica is named for him.\n\nBorn in Dunedin in 1925, McCraw was interested in science from an early age, becoming a member the junior group of the Otago branch of the Royal Society of New Zealand when he was 10 years old. He attended the University of Otago, from where he graduated with a Master of Science with second-class honours in geology in 1948.\n\nMcCraw then had a 20-year career as a pedologist with the Soil Bureau of the Department of Scientific and Industrial Research, based first in Alexandra in Central Otago from 1949 to 1963 and then in Hamilton. He led the Soil Bureau's first Antarctic expedition in 1959–60, undertaking soil surveys in the Taylor Valley and on the Ross Sea coast.\n\nIn 1968 McCraw earned a Doctor of Science degree from Victoria University of Wellington on the basis of 13 papers on soils in New Zealand and Antarctica.\n\nMcCraw was appointed as the foundation professor in the newly established Department of Earth Sciences at the University of Waikato in 1970, and served as the university's dean of science between 1975 and 1984. On his retirement from Waikato in 1988, McCraw was granted the title of emeritus professor.\n\nIn retirement, McCraw found the time to devote to researching the history of Central Otago, in which he had become interested during his time at the Soil Bureau in Alexandra. He went on to publish about a dozen books on the history of the area and the wider Otago region, and was acknowledged as the leading authority on the Alexandra district. He also wrote \"The wandering river: landforms and geological history of the Hamilton basin\", published in 2011.\n\nThroughout his life, McCraw served on a range of community, professional and public committees, organizations and inquiries. In 1957 he was a member of the organizing committee for the inaugural Alexandra Blossom Festival. He served as president of the Waikato branch of the Royal Society of New Zealand between 1965 and 1966 and was a member of the society's geology and quaternary national committees from 1975 to 1982. In 1968 he chaired the Waikato branch of the Geological Society of New Zealand. He also served on the National Water and Soil Authority from 1976 to 1985, and the commission of inquiry into the Abbotsford landslip disaster between 1979 and 1980. He chaired the government's 1988 Rabbit and Land Management Task Force and the public consultation committee for the Hamilton City Council pollution control scheme from 1994 to 1996. He was patron of the Waikato Geological and Lapidary Society.\n\nMcCraw died in Hamilton in 2014 and was buried at Hamilton Park Cemetery.\n\nIn the 1992 Queen's Birthday Honours, McCraw was appointed a Member of the Order of the British Empire for services to earth sciences. He was made a Fellow of the New Zealand Society of Soil Science in 1995, and in 2005 he was elected as a Companion of the Royal Society of New Zealand in recognition of his promotion and encouragement of science and technology. In 2008, he received a special award at the Central Otago Community Awards for his vital role in the preservation of knowledge and understanding of the history of Alexandra and the surrounding districts.\n\nIn 1979, a glacier in the Britannia Range in Antarctica was named McCraw Glacier, in honour of McCraw, by a geological field party from the University of Waikato led by Michael Selby. The John McCraw Research Room at the Central Stories Museum and Art Gallery in Alexandra is also named for him.\n\n"}
{"id": "1186128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1186128", "title": "Kōan (Muromachi period)", "text": "Kōan (Muromachi period)\n\nDuring the Meiji period, an Imperial decree dated March 3, 1911 established that the legitimate reigning monarchs of this period were the direct descendants of Emperor Go-Daigo through Emperor Go-Murakami, whose had been established in exile in Yoshino, near Nara.\n\nUntil the end of the Edo period, the militarily superior pretender-Emperors supported by the Ashikaga shogunate had been mistakenly incorporated in Imperial chronologies despite the undisputed fact that the Imperial Regalia were not in their possession.\n\nThis illegitimate had been established in Kyoto by Ashikaga Takauji.\n\n\nIn this time frame, Shōhei (1346–1370) was a Southern Court equivalent \"nengō,\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20286284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20286284", "title": "Life of Sethos", "text": "Life of Sethos\n\nLife of Sethos, Taken from Private Memoirs of the Ancient Egyptians () is an influential fantasy novel originally published in six volumes at Paris in 1731 by the French \"abbé\" Jean Terrasson. An English translation by Thomas Lediard published at London by J. Walthoe appeared in 1732.\n\nAccording to classicist Mary Lefkowitz, Sethos:\nThis eighteenth century work of fiction is a primary source of Afrocentrism and of the kind of black history found in such popular books as Martin Bernal's \"Black Athena: The Afroasiatic Roots of Classical Civilization\" and George James's \"Stolen Legacy: Greek Philosophy Is Stolen Egyptian Philosophy\".\n\nIt is also a key source of a popular web of conspiracy theories positing a secret pagan subculture of Freemasons, devotees of Satan, and environmentalists dedicated to the overthrow of Christianity.\n\nThe Greek historian Herodotus in his \"Histories\" (book II, chapter 141) writes of a High Priest of Ptah named Sethos ( \"Sethon\") who became pharaoh and defeated the Assyrians with divine intervention. This name is probably a corruption of Shebitku (or Shabataka), the actual pharaoh at the time, who was a Kushite of the Twenty-fifth Dynasty. According to Herodotus:\n\n__notoc__\n"}
{"id": "102849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=102849", "title": "Lindsey Davis", "text": "Lindsey Davis\n\nLindsey Davis (born 1949) is an English historical novelist, best known as the author of the Falco series of historical crime stories set in ancient Rome and its empire.\n\nDavis was born in Birmingham and after taking a degree in English literature at Oxford University (Lady Margaret Hall), she became a civil servant. She left the civil service after 13 years, and when a romantic novel she had written was runner up for the 1985 \"Georgette Heyer Historical Novel Prize\", she decided to become a writer, writing at first romantic serials for the UK women's magazine \"Woman's Realm\".\n\nHer dedication of the book \"Rebels and Traitors\" (2009) reads: \"For Richard / dearest and closest of friends / your favourite book / in memory\", and the author's website relates: \"I am still getting used to life without my dear Richard. For those of you who haven't seen this before, he died in October [2008]\". The author says in her publisher's newsletter: \"The greatest recommendation I can\ngive is that Richard, its first reader, thought it wonderful. He devoured chunks, demanding ‘Bring\nmore story!’ even when he was in hospital. One of the last things I was ever able to tell him was that \"Rebels and Traitors\" was to be published by Random House, so I would be working with dear friends for his favourite book.\"\n\nDavis suffered from the eye condition keratoconus from childhood, and in adulthood had a corneal transplant, about which she has said: \"A stranger's generosity freed me from years of pain and anxiety\", and urges her readers to carry a donor card.\n\nDavis's interest in history and archaeology led to her writing an historical novel about Vespasian and his lover Antonia Caenis (\"The Course of Honour\"), for which she could not find a publisher. She tried again, and her first novel featuring the Roman \"detective\", Marcus Didius Falco, \"The Silver Pigs\" (1989), set in the same time period, was the start of her runaway success as a writer of historical whodunnits. A further 19 Falco novels have followed, as well as \"The Course of Honour\", which was finally published in 1997. \"Rebels and Traitors\", set in the period of the English Civil War, was published in September 2009, and \"\" in June 2010. \"Master and God\", published in March 2012, is set in ancient Rome and concerning the emperor Domitian.\nIn 2012, Davis and her publishers, Hodder & Stoughton in the UK and St. Martin's Press in the US, announced that she was writing a new series of books centred on Flavia Albia, Falco's British-born adopted daughter and \"an established female investigator\". The first title, \"The Ides of April\" was published on 11 April 2013 in the UK, and its sequel, \"Enemies at Home\", was published in 2014.\n\nDavis has won many literary awards, and was honorary president of the Classical Association from 1997 to 1998.\n\n\nOmnibus editions\n\nAssociated publication\n\nNovels\n\nNovellas\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7514478", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7514478", "title": "List of purported relics of major figures of religious traditions", "text": "List of purported relics of major figures of religious traditions\n\nThis article lists the purported relics of major figures of religious traditions. If there is no burial place or relics, the place of death is mentioned.\n\nThe Shrine of the Báb, the burial location of the Báb, the founder of Bábism and one of three central figures of the Bahá'í Faith, is located on Mount Carmel, in Haifa, Israel.\n\nLocated in Bahji near Acre, Israel, the Shrine of Bahá'u'lláh is the most holy place for Bahá'ís and their Qiblih, or direction of prayer. It contains the remains of Bahá'u'lláh, founder of the Bahá'í Faith and is near the spot where he died in the Mansion of Bahji.\n\nGautama Buddha's body was cremated in Kushinagar, India and the relics were placed in monuments or stupas, some of which are believed to have survived until the present. Ramabhar Stupa in Kushinagar was built over a portion of the Buddha's ashes on the spot where he was cremated by the ancient Malla people. The Temple of the Tooth or \"Dalada Maligawa\" in Sri Lanka is the place where the right tooth relic of Buddha is kept at present.\n\nAccording to early Christian sources the Church of the Holy Sepulchre occupies the location where Jesus is said to have been entombed between his crucifixion and resurrection. It is located in the Christian Quarter of the Old City of Jerusalem.\n\nA second site, known as the Garden Tomb, located just outside Jerusalem's Old City has become a popular Protestant alternative to the Church of the Holy Sepulchre, which is dominated by the Catholic and Orthodox faiths.\n\nMary Baker Eddy is buried at Mount Auburn Cemetery in Cambridge, Massachusetts in the United States.\n\nMartin Luther upon his death was buried in All Saints' Church in Wittenburg. This was the formerly Catholic Church he nailed his 95 theses to, today it is a Lutheran Church.\n\nJoseph Smith is buried at the Smith Family Cemetery in Nauvoo, Illinois in the United States.\n\nThe Unification Church was founded by Sun Myung Moon in 1954. In 2012, he was buried at his house in Cheongseongsan, in South Korea's Gyeonggi Province.\n\nThe grave of Confucius, founder of Confucianism, is in his hometown of Qufu, Shandong Province, China. The grave of Confucius is located in a large cemetery where more than 100,000 of his descendants are also buried.\n\nAccording to early Muslim sources, Muhammad is buried in the Al-Masjid an-Nabawi (\"Mosque of the Prophet\") in the city of Medina in Saudi Arabia. The tomb of Muhammad lies within the confines of what used to be his wife Aisha's and his house. During his lifetime it adjoined the mosque, which was expanded during the reign of Caliph al-Walid I to include his tomb.\nThe exact location of the grave of Moses is unknown, but according to Deuteronomy 34:6 it is on or near Mount Nebo just east of the Jordan river, now in the kingdom of Jordan.\n\nThe Cave of the Patriarchs is located in the ancient city of Hebron (which lies in the southwest part of the West Bank, in the heart of ancient Judea), and is generally considered by Jews, Christians, and Muslims to be its spiritual center. Jewish, Christian, and Islamic tradition holds that the compound encloses the burial place of four Biblical couples: Adam and Eve; Abraham and Sarah; Isaac and Rebekah; Jacob and Leah. According to Midrashic sources, it also contains the head of Esau, the brother of Jacob.\n\nUpon his death, L. Ron Hubbard was cremated and his ashes were scattered in the Pacific Ocean.\n\nGurdwara Kartarpur (meaning \"The Abode of God\") was established by Guru Nanak, the founder of Sikhism in 1522. When Guru Nanak died in 1539, Hindus and Muslims disagreed on how to perform his last rites. A \"samadhi\" (according to Hindu tradition) lies in the \"gurdwara\" and a grave (according to Muslim traditions) lies on the premises as a reminder of this discord. The \"gurdwara\" is located in a small village named Kartarpur on the West bank of the Ravi River in Punjab, Pakistan.\n\nWhen it became clear that the death of Guru Nanak was near, a dispute arose among his followers. His Hindu followers wanted to cremate the remains while his Muslim followers wanted to bury the body following Islamic tradition. Nanak brokered a compromise by suggesting that each group should place a garland of flowers beside his body, and those whose garland remained unwilted after three days could dispose of his body according to their tradition. However, the next morning, upon raising the cloth under which the Guru’s body lay, only the flowers shared between his followers were found. The Hindus cremated their flowers whereas the Muslims buried theirs. The Guru had departed.\n\nThe \"gurdwara\" at Kartarpur can be seen from another \"gurdwara\" located across the border at the historical town of Dera Baba Nanak in India, another important preaching centre of the Guru. Both sites are one of the most significant places in Sikhism located along Indo-Pak border. Recently, there has been lobbying to open a corridor for Sikhs from India to visit the shrine without any hindrance or visa. It lies only 2 km from the international border.\n\nTaoism was founded by Laozi, the author of the Tao Te Ching. According to Taoist legend, Laozi transmitted the \"Tao Te Ching\" at the request of a border guard before departing from China (i.e. from known civilization). He is believed to have lived out the rest of his days in communion with Nature, and some Taoist traditions hold that he achieved immortality. Whether he underwent death or not is not made clear by all parts of the tradition, and if he did, it was in some remote area, far from civilization at that time.\n\nTenrikyo considers the Foundress's Sanctuary in Tenri, Nara, Japan to be the site where their faith's founder \"lives and works\"; she died in 1887.\n\nZoroastrianism was founded by Zoroaster. There is no consensus as to where Zoroaster lived, much less where he died or what became of his remains. Most believe that he died in Balkh while he was praying. When he died, his entire body became a flame, as fire in Zoroastrianism is very important.\n\n"}
{"id": "3587071", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3587071", "title": "Liturgical drama", "text": "Liturgical drama\n\nThis article focuses on the technical term \"liturgical drama\"; for general aspects of medieval performance, see the article on Medieval theatre.\n\nPremodern performance took place on a flowing border between more or less institutionalized forms; rites and plays existed among other public ceremonies such as royal publicity, religious penance, or legal punishment. It is therefore necessary to speak of a mosaic of medieval theatricality.\n\nSince the 10th Century, Easter liturgies have contained early forms of performance and role play. Some are short text passages, others are quite long and developed. In the 15th and 16th Centuries, Passion Plays and Corpus Christi plays grew into highly developed performances, which in some localities existed until the 17th Century. \n\nThe premodern combination of liturgy, ritual and performance makes it especially difficult to apply the term \"Drama\". It is not always possible to unterstand the relationship between written text, staging and performance. The texts themselves are often part of a liturgical rite, making it difficult to locate a beginning or an end of the play within the liturgical or paraliturgical context. \n\nThe \"Quem Quaeritis?\" (\"Whom do you seek?\" ) segment of the Easter liturgy was an exchange of one question, one answer, and one command between the Angels at Christ's tomb and the three Marys (Virgin Mary, Mary Magdalene, and Mary, the sister of Lazarus). Yet the concept of drama cannot adequately be used to describe the Quem Queritis, since drama as a concept is not found in the medieval sources themselves; using the term drama opens up a vast field of anachronistic misunderstandings.\n\nThe Easter Plays were the core of medieval performance within the liturgy, but there were additional forms such as saints' plays, miracle stories, legends, and apocalyptic plays. The largest part of plot material is taken from the Bible or Christian legend. \n\nContrary to earlier theories tracing the development of European theatre from the Catholic liturgy, there is no logical or chronological development in the various play texts from the Middle Ages; the scope of the text, its complexity, and its dramatic structure of the many sources known today do not develop in a systematic manner. Another widespread misunderstanding of medieval performance forgets that music always played an important part in liturgical rites and plays.\n\nThe rites in Latin were always performed in a church, in the context of a liturgical ceremony. Since they are so strongly integrated into the liturgy (Mass or Liturgy of the Hours), it is questionable whether or not they count as performance. Latin-language plays were also performed in churches without a liturgical context. Vernacular plays were most often performed in public spaces outside of the church, usually on mansion stages on the public square. Stage sets representing heaven, hell, Pontius Pilate's house or the Holy Sepulcher were erected on the stages. \n\nTo speak of actors is only pertinent to the plays; in the church, the rites were performed by clerics and monks who did not consider themselves to be acting in any amateur or professional sense. A director of sorts arbitrated between the stage and the audience; he commented upon the scene, narrated passages and kept order. \n\nWhile most performances were limited to a few hours, some plays could reach monumental proportions: The Passion-Play of Bolzano took seven days in 1514, and the one staged at Valenciennes in 1547, a total of 25. \n\nWhile liturgical rites are a constant in Christian life, plays are not. There are passages of European history in which plays are all but unknown. The medieval city was a performance-friendly culture. Clerics and trade fraternities encouraged stage performance in the church and outside of it. Amateur actors were recruited among the ranks of schoolboys and trade apprentices. Topics performed were predominantly taken from Christian sources, yet comic and contemporary topics were omnipresent in almost all performance, in a more or less discreet manner. Improvisation was a crowd-pleaser. \n\nSince Christian liturgy is the re-enactment of crucial moments in Christ's life, it comes as no surprise that medieval performance blurs the distinction between reality and the fiction being presented to the audience. Antisemitic violence could occur after the crowds had witnessed a Passion-Play; sometimes members of the audience would interrupt the performance by jumping into the scene in order to \"save\" the suffering Christ. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31667546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31667546", "title": "Lojze Ude", "text": "Lojze Ude\n\nLojze Ude (Križe, Tržič, Austria-Hungary, June 18, 1896 – February 28, 1982, Lošinj, Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia) was Slovenian lawyer, journalist and historian.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20189", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20189", "title": "Mesopotamia", "text": "Mesopotamia\n\nMesopotamia is a historical region in Western Asia situated within the Tigris–Euphrates river system, in modern days roughly corresponding to most of Iraq, Kuwait, parts of Northern Saudi Arabia, the eastern parts of Syria, Southeastern Turkey, and regions along the Turkish–Syrian and Iran–Iraq borders.\n\nThe Sumerians and Akkadians (including Assyrians and Babylonians) dominated Mesopotamia from the beginning of written history (c. 3100 BC) to the fall of Babylon in 539 BC, when it was conquered by the Achaemenid Empire. It fell to Alexander the Great in 332 BC, and after his death, it became part of the Greek Seleucid Empire.\n\nAround 150 BC, Mesopotamia was under the control of the Parthian Empire. Mesopotamia became a battleground between the Romans and Parthians, with western parts of Mesopotamia coming under ephemeral Roman control. In AD 226, the eastern regions of Mesopotamia fell to the Sassanid Persians. The division of Mesopotamia between Roman (Byzantine from AD 395) and Sassanid Empires lasted until the 7th century Muslim conquest of Persia of the Sasanian Empire and Muslim conquest of the Levant from Byzantines. A number of primarily neo-Assyrian and Christian native Mesopotamian states existed between the 1st century BC and 3rd century AD, including Adiabene, Osroene, and Hatra.\n\nMesopotamia is the site of the earliest developments of the Neolithic Revolution from around 10,000 BC. It has been identified as having \"inspired some of the most important developments in human history including the invention of the wheel, the planting of the first cereal crops and the development of cursive script, mathematics, astronomy and agriculture\".\n\nThe regional toponym \"Mesopotamia\" (, \"[land] between rivers\"; \"bilād ar-rāfidayn\"; ; \"miyān rudān\"; \"Beth Nahrain\" \"land of rivers\") comes from the ancient Greek root words μέσος (\"meso\") \"middle\" and ποταμός (\"potamos\") \"river\" and translates to \"(Land) between two/the rivers\". It is used throughout the Greek Septuagint (c. 250 BC) to translate the Hebrew and Aramaic equivalent \"Naharaim\". An even earlier Greek usage of the name \"Mesopotamia\" is evident from \"The Anabasis of Alexander\", which was written in the late 2nd century AD, but specifically refers to sources from the time of Alexander the Great. In the \"Anabasis\", Mesopotamia was used to designate the land east of the Euphrates in north Syria.\n\nThe Aramaic term \"biritum/birit narim\" corresponded to a similar geographical concept. Later, the term Mesopotamia was more generally applied to all the lands between the Euphrates and the Tigris, thereby incorporating not only parts of Syria but also almost all of Iraq and southeastern Turkey. The neighbouring steppes to the west of the Euphrates and the western part of the Zagros Mountains are also often included under the wider term Mesopotamia.\n\nA further distinction is usually made between Northern or Upper Mesopotamia and Southern or Lower Mesopotamia. Upper Mesopotamia, also known as the \"Jazira\", is the area between the Euphrates and the Tigris from their sources down to Baghdad. Lower Mesopotamia is the area from Baghdad to the Persian Gulf and includes Kuwait and parts of western Iran.\n\nIn modern academic usage, the term \"Mesopotamia\" often also has a chronological connotation. It is usually used to designate the area until the Muslim conquests, with names like \"Syria\", \"Jazira\", and \"Iraq\" being used to describe the region after that date. It has been argued that these later euphemisms are Eurocentric terms attributed to the region in the midst of various 19th-century Western encroachments.\n\nMesopotamia encompasses the land between the Euphrates and Tigris rivers, both of which have their headwaters in the Taurus Mountains. Both rivers are fed by numerous tributaries, and the entire river system drains a vast mountainous region. Overland routes in Mesopotamia usually follow the Euphrates because the banks of the Tigris are frequently steep and difficult. The climate of the region is semi-arid with a vast desert expanse in the north which gives way to a region of marshes, lagoons, mud flats, and reed banks in the south. In the extreme south, the Euphrates and the Tigris unite and empty into the Persian Gulf.\n\nThe arid environment which ranges from the northern areas of rain-fed agriculture to the south where irrigation of agriculture is essential if a surplus energy returned on energy invested (EROEI) is to be obtained. This irrigation is aided by a high water table and by melting snows from the high peaks of the northern Zagros Mountains and from the Armenian Highlands, the source of the Tigris and Euphrates Rivers that give the region its name. The usefulness of irrigation depends upon the ability to mobilize sufficient labor for the construction and maintenance of canals, and this, from the earliest period, has assisted the development of urban settlements and centralized systems of political authority.\n\nAgriculture throughout the region has been supplemented by nomadic pastoralism, where tent-dwelling nomads herded sheep and goats (and later camels) from the river pastures in the dry summer months, out into seasonal grazing lands on the desert fringe in the wet winter season. The area is generally lacking in building stone, precious metals and timber, and so historically has relied upon long-distance trade of agricultural products to secure these items from outlying areas. In the marshlands to the south of the area, a complex water-borne fishing culture has existed since prehistoric times, and has added to the cultural mix.\n\nPeriodic breakdowns in the cultural system have occurred for a number of reasons. The demands for labor has from time to time led to population increases that push the limits of the ecological carrying capacity, and should a period of climatic instability ensue, collapsing central government and declining populations can occur. Alternatively, military vulnerability to invasion from marginal hill tribes or nomadic pastoralists has led to periods of trade collapse and neglect of irrigation systems. Equally, centripetal tendencies amongst city states has meant that central authority over the whole region, when imposed, has tended to be ephemeral, and localism has fragmented power into tribal or smaller regional units. These trends have continued to the present day in Iraq.\n\nThe pre-history of the Ancient Near East begins in the Lower Paleolithic period. Therein, writing emerged with a pictographic script in the Uruk IV period (c. 4th millennium BC), and the documented record of actual historical events — and the ancient history of lower Mesopotamia — commenced in the mid-third millennium BC with cuneiform records of early dynastic kings. This entire prehistory ends with either the arrival of the Achaemenid Empire in the late 6th century BC, or with the Muslim conquest and the establishment of the Caliphate in the late 7th century AD, from which point the region came to be known as Iraq. In the long span of this period, Mesopotamia housed some of the world's most ancient highly-developed and socially complex states.\n\nThe region was one of the four riverine civilizations where writing was invented, along with the Nile valley in Egypt, the Indus Valley Civilization in the Indian subcontinent, and the Yellow River in China. Mesopotamia housed historically important cities such as Uruk, Nippur, Nineveh, Assur and Babylon, as well as major territorial states such as the city of Eridu, the Akkadian kingdoms, the Third Dynasty of Ur, and the various Assyrian empires. Some of the important historical Mesopotamian leaders were Ur-Nammu (king of Ur), Sargon of Akkad (who established the Akkadian Empire), Hammurabi (who established the Old Babylonian state), Ashur-uballit II and Tiglath-Pileser I (who established the Assyrian Empire).\n\nScientists analysed DNA from the 8,000-year-old remains of early farmers found at an ancient graveyard in Germany. They compared the genetic signatures to those of modern populations and found similarities with the DNA of people living in today's Turkey and Iraq.\n\n\nThe earliest language written in Mesopotamia was Sumerian, an agglutinative language isolate. Along with Sumerian, Semitic languages were also spoken in early Mesopotamia. Subartuan a language of the Zagros, perhaps related to the Hurro-Urartuan language family is attested in personal names, rivers and mountains and in various crafts. Akkadian came to be the dominant language during the Akkadian Empire and the Assyrian empires, but Sumerian was retained for administrative, religious, literary and scientific purposes. Different varieties of Akkadian were used until the end of the Neo-Babylonian period. Old Aramaic, which had already become common in Mesopotamia, then became the official provincial administration language of first the Neo-Assyrian Empire, and then the Achaemenid Empire: the official lect is called Imperial Aramaic. Akkadian fell into disuse, but both it and Sumerian were still used in temples for some centuries. The last Akkadian texts date from the late 1st century AD.\n\nEarly in Mesopotamia's history (around the mid-4th millennium BC) cuneiform was invented for the Sumerian language. Cuneiform literally means \"wedge-shaped\", due to the triangular tip of the stylus used for impressing signs on wet clay. The standardized form of each cuneiform sign appears to have been developed from pictograms. The earliest texts (7 archaic tablets) come from the É, a temple dedicated to the goddess Inanna at Uruk, from a building labeled as Temple C by its excavators.\n\nThe early logographic system of cuneiform script took many years to master. Thus, only a limited number of individuals were hired as scribes to be trained in its use. It was not until the widespread use of a syllabic script was adopted under Sargon's rule that significant portions of Mesopotamian population became literate. Massive archives of texts were recovered from the archaeological contexts of Old Babylonian scribal schools, through which literacy was disseminated.\n\nDuring the third millennium BC, there developed a very intimate cultural symbiosis between the Sumerian and the Akkadian language users, which included widespread bilingualism. The influence of Sumerian on Akkadian (and vice versa) is evident in all areas, from lexical borrowing on a massive scale, to syntactic, morphological, and phonological convergence. This has prompted scholars to refer to Sumerian and Akkadian in the third millennium as a sprachbund. Akkadian gradually replaced Sumerian as the spoken language of Mesopotamia somewhere around the turn of the 3rd and the 2nd millennium BC (the exact dating being a matter of debate), but Sumerian continued to be used as a sacred, ceremonial, literary, and scientific language in Mesopotamia until the 1st century AD.\n\nLibraries were extant in towns and temples during the Babylonian Empire. An old Sumerian proverb averred that \"he who would excel in the school of the scribes must rise with the dawn.\" Women as well as men learned to read and write, and for the Semitic Babylonians, this involved knowledge of the extinct Sumerian language, and a complicated and extensive syllabary.\n\nA considerable amount of Babylonian literature was translated from Sumerian originals, and the language of religion and law long continued to be the old agglutinative language of Sumer. Vocabularies, grammars, and interlinear translations were compiled for the use of students, as well as commentaries on the older texts and explanations of obscure words and phrases. The characters of the syllabary were all arranged and named, and elaborate lists were drawn up.\n\nMany Babylonian literary works are still studied today. One of the most famous of these was the Epic of Gilgamesh, in twelve books, translated from the original Sumerian by a certain Sîn-lēqi-unninni, and arranged upon an astronomical principle. Each division contains the story of a single adventure in the career of Gilgamesh. The whole story is a composite product, although it is probable that some of the stories are artificially attached to the central figure.\n\nMesopotamian mathematics and science was based on a sexagesimal (base 60) numeral system. This is the source of the 60-minute hour, the 24-hour day, and the 360-degree circle. The Sumerian calendar was based on the seven-day week. This form of mathematics was instrumental in early map-making. The Babylonians also had theorems on how to measure the area of several shapes and solids. They measured the circumference of a circle as three times the diameter and the area as one-twelfth the square of the circumference, which would be correct if p were fixed at 3. The volume of a cylinder was taken as the product of the area of the base and the height; however, the volume of the frustum of a cone or a square pyramid was incorrectly taken as the product of the height and half the sum of the bases. Also, there was a recent discovery in which a tablet used p as 25/8 (3.125 instead of 3.14159~). The Babylonians are also known for the Babylonian mile, which was a measure of distance equal to about seven modern miles (11 km). This measurement for distances eventually was converted to a time-mile used for measuring the travel of the Sun, therefore, representing time.\n\nFrom Sumerian times, temple priesthoods had attempted to associate current events with certain positions of the planets and stars. This continued to Assyrian times, when Limmu lists were created as a year by year association of events with planetary positions, which, when they have survived to the present day, allow accurate associations of relative with absolute dating for establishing the history of Mesopotamia.\n\nThe Babylonian astronomers were very adept at mathematics and could predict eclipses and solstices. Scholars thought that everything had some purpose in astronomy. Most of these related to religion and omens. Mesopotamian astronomers worked out a 12-month calendar based on the cycles of the moon. They divided the year into two seasons: summer and winter. The origins of astronomy as well as astrology date from this time.\n\nDuring the 8th and 7th centuries BC, Babylonian astronomers developed a new approach to astronomy. They began studying philosophy dealing with the ideal nature of the early universe and began employing an internal logic within their predictive planetary systems. This was an important contribution to astronomy and the philosophy of science and some scholars have thus referred to this new approach as the first scientific revolution. This new approach to astronomy was adopted and further developed in Greek and Hellenistic astronomy.\n\nIn Seleucid and Parthian times, the astronomical reports were thoroughly scientific; how much earlier their advanced knowledge and methods were developed is uncertain. The Babylonian development of methods for predicting the motions of the planets is considered to be a major episode in the history of astronomy.\n\nThe only Greek-Babylonian astronomer known to have supported a heliocentric model of planetary motion was Seleucus of Seleucia (b. 190 BC). Seleucus is known from the writings of Plutarch. He supported Aristarchus of Samos' heliocentric theory where the Earth rotated around its own axis which in turn revolved around the Sun. According to Plutarch, Seleucus even proved the heliocentric system, but it is not known what arguments he used (except that he correctly theorized on tides as a result of Moon's attraction).\n\nBabylonian astronomy served as the basis for much of Greek, classical Indian, Sassanian, Byzantine, Syrian, medieval Islamic, Central Asian, and Western European astronomy.\n\nThe oldest Babylonian texts on medicine date back to the Old Babylonian period in the first half of the 2nd millennium BC. The most extensive Babylonian medical text, however, is the \"Diagnostic Handbook\" written by the \"ummânū\", or chief scholar, Esagil-kin-apli of Borsippa, during the reign of the Babylonian king Adad-apla-iddina (1069-1046 BC).\n\nAlong with contemporary Egyptian medicine, the Babylonians introduced the concepts of diagnosis, prognosis, physical examination, and prescriptions. In addition, the \"Diagnostic Handbook\" introduced the methods of therapy and aetiology and the use of empiricism, logic, and rationality in diagnosis, prognosis and therapy. The text contains a list of medical symptoms and often detailed empirical observations along with logical rules used in combining observed symptoms on the body of a patient with its diagnosis and prognosis.\n\nThe symptoms and diseases of a patient were treated through therapeutic means such as bandages, creams and pills. If a patient could not be cured physically, the Babylonian physicians often relied on exorcism to cleanse the patient from any curses. Esagil-kin-apli's \"Diagnostic Handbook\" was based on a logical set of axioms and assumptions, including the modern view that through the examination and inspection of the symptoms of a patient, it is possible to determine the patient's disease, its aetiology, its future development, and the chances of the patient's recovery.\n\nEsagil-kin-apli discovered a variety of illnesses and diseases and described their symptoms in his \"Diagnostic Handbook\". These include the symptoms for many varieties of epilepsy and related ailments along with their diagnosis and prognosis.\n\nMesopotamian people invented many technologies including metal and copper-working, glass and lamp making, textile weaving, flood control, water storage, and irrigation. They were also one of the first Bronze Age societies in the world. They developed from copper, bronze, and gold on to iron. Palaces were decorated with hundreds of kilograms of these very expensive metals. Also, copper, bronze, and iron were used for armor as well as for different weapons such as swords, daggers, spears, and maces.\n\nAccording to a recent hypothesis, the Archimedes' screw may have been used by Sennacherib, King of Assyria, for the water systems at the Hanging Gardens of Babylon and Nineveh in the 7th century BC, although mainstream scholarship holds it to be a Greek invention of later times. Later, during the Parthian or Sasanian periods, the Baghdad Battery, which may have been the world's first battery, was created in Mesopotamia.\n\nAncient Mesopotamian religion was the first recorded. Mesopotamians believed that the world was a flat disc, surrounded by a huge, holed space, and above that, heaven. They also believed that water was everywhere, the top, bottom and sides, and that the universe was born from this enormous sea. In addition, Mesopotamian religion was polytheistic. Although the beliefs described above were held in common among Mesopotamians, there were also regional variations. The Sumerian word for universe is an-ki, which refers to the god An and the goddess Ki. Their son was Enlil, the air god. They believed that Enlil was the most powerful god. He was the chief god of the pantheon. The Sumerians also posed philosophical questions, such as: Who are we?, Where are we?, How did we get here?. They attributed answers to these questions to explanations provided by their gods.\n\nThe numerous civilizations of the area influenced the Abrahamic religions, especially the Hebrew Bible; its cultural values and literary influence are especially evident in the Book of Genesis.\n\nGiorgio Buccellati believes that the origins of philosophy can be traced back to early Mesopotamian wisdom, which embodied certain philosophies of life, particularly ethics, in the forms of dialectic, dialogues, epic poetry, folklore, hymns, lyrics, prose works, and proverbs. Babylonian reason and rationality developed beyond empirical observation.\n\nThe earliest form of logic was developed by the Babylonians, notably in the rigorous nonergodic nature of their social systems. Babylonian thought was axiomatic and is comparable to the \"ordinary logic\" described by John Maynard Keynes. Babylonian thought was also based on an open-systems ontology which is compatible with ergodic axioms. Logic was employed to some extent in Babylonian astronomy and medicine.\n\nBabylonian thought had a considerable influence on early Ancient Greek and Hellenistic philosophy. In particular, the Babylonian text \"Dialogue of Pessimism\" contains similarities to the agonistic thought of the Sophists, the Heraclitean doctrine of dialectic, and the dialogs of Plato, as well as a precursor to the Socratic method. The Ionian philosopher Thales was influenced by Babylonian cosmological ideas.\n\nAncient Mesopotamians had ceremonies each month. The theme of the rituals and festivals for each month was determined by at least six important factors:\n\n\nSome songs were written for the gods but many were written to describe important events. Although music and songs amused kings, they were also enjoyed by ordinary people who liked to sing and dance in their homes or in the marketplaces. Songs were sung to children who passed them on to their children. Thus songs were passed on through many generations as an oral tradition until writing was more universal. These songs provided a means of passing on through the centuries highly important information about historical events.\n\nThe Oud (Arabic:العود) is a small, stringed musical instrument used by the Mesopotamians. The oldest pictorial record of the Oud dates back to the Uruk period in Southern Mesopotamia over 5000 years ago. It is on a cylinder seal currently housed at the British Museum and acquired by Dr. Dominique Collon. The image depicts a female crouching with her instruments upon a boat, playing right-handed. This instrument appears hundreds of times throughout Mesopotamian history and again in ancient Egypt from the 18th dynasty onwards in long- and short-neck varieties. The oud is regarded as a precursor to the European lute. Its name is derived from the Arabic word العود al-‘ūd 'the wood', which is probably the name of the tree from which the oud was made. (The Arabic name, with the definite article, is the source of the word 'lute'.)\n\nHunting was popular among Assyrian kings. Boxing and wrestling feature frequently in art, and some form of polo was probably popular, with men sitting on the shoulders of other men rather than on horses. They also played \"majore\", a game similar to the sport rugby, but played with a ball made of wood. They also played a board game similar to senet and backgammon, now known as the \"Royal Game of Ur\".\n\nMesopotamia, as shown by successive law codes, those of Urukagina, Lipit Ishtar and Hammurabi, across its history became more and more a patriarchal society, one in which the men were far more powerful than the women. For example, during the earliest Sumerian period, the \"en\", or high priest of male gods was originally a woman, that of female goddesses, a man. Thorkild Jacobsen, as well as many others, has suggested that early Mesopotamian society was ruled by a \"council of elders\" in which men and women were equally represented, but that over time, as the status of women fell, that of men increased. As for schooling, only royal offspring and sons of the rich and professionals, such as scribes, physicians, temple administrators, went to school. Most boys were taught their father's trade or were apprenticed out to learn a trade. Girls had to stay home with their mothers to learn housekeeping and cooking, and to look after the younger children. Some children would help with crushing grain or cleaning birds. Unusually for that time in history, women in Mesopotamia had rights. They could own property and, if they had good reason, get a divorce.\n\nHundreds of graves have been excavated in parts of Mesopotamia, revealing information about Mesopotamian burial habits. In the city of Ur, most people were buried in family graves under their houses, along with some possessions. A few have been found wrapped in mats and carpets. Deceased children were put in big \"jars\" which were placed in the family chapel. Other remains have been found buried in common city graveyards. 17 graves have been found with very precious objects in them. It is assumed that these were royal graves. Rich of various periods, have been discovered to have sought burial in Bahrein, identified with Sumerian Dilmun.\n\nIrrigated agriculture spread southwards from the Zagros foothills with the Samara and Hadji Muhammed culture, from about 5,000 BC. Sumerian temples functioned as banks and developed the first large-scale system of loans and credit, but the Babylonians developed the earliest system of commercial banking. It was comparable in some ways to modern post-Keynesian economics, but with a more \"anything goes\" approach.\n\nIn the early period down to Ur III temples owned up to one third of the available land, declining over time as royal and other private holdings increased in frequency. The word Ensi was used to describe the official who organized the work of all facets of temple agriculture. Villeins are known to have worked most frequently within agriculture, especially in the grounds of temples or palaces.\n\nThe geography of southern Mesopotamia is such that agriculture is possible only with irrigation and good drainage, a fact which has had a profound effect on the evolution of early Mesopotamian civilization. The need for irrigation led the Sumerians, and later the Akkadians, to build their cities along the Tigris and Euphrates and the branches of these rivers. Major cities, such as Ur and Uruk, took root on tributaries of the Euphrates, while others, notably Lagash, were built on branches of the Tigris. The rivers provided the further benefits of fish (used both for food and fertilizer), reeds, and clay (for building materials). With irrigation, the food supply in Mesopotamia was comparable to the Canadian prairies.\n\nThe Tigris and Euphrates River valleys form the northeastern portion of the Fertile Crescent, which also included the Jordan River valley and that of the Nile. Although land nearer to the rivers was fertile and good for crops, portions of land farther from the water were dry and largely uninhabitable. This is why the development of irrigation was very important for settlers of Mesopotamia. Other Mesopotamian innovations include the control of water by dams and the use of aqueducts. Early settlers of fertile land in Mesopotamia used wooden plows to soften the soil before planting crops such as barley, onions, grapes, turnips, and apples. Mesopotamian settlers were some of the first people to make beer and wine. As a result of the skill involved in farming in the Mesopotamian, farmers did not depend on slaves to complete farm work for them, but there were some exceptions. There were too many risks involved to make slavery practical (i.e. the escape/mutiny of the slave). Although the rivers sustained life, they also destroyed it by frequent floods that ravaged entire cities. The unpredictable Mesopotamian weather was often hard on farmers; crops were often ruined so backup sources of food such as cows and lambs were also kept. Over time the southernmost parts of Sumerian Mesopotamia suffered from increased salinity of the soils, leading to a slow urban decline and a centring of power in Akkad, further north.\n\nThe geography of Mesopotamia had a profound impact on the political development of the region. Among the rivers and streams, the Sumerian people built the first cities along with irrigation canals which were separated by vast stretches of open desert or swamp where nomadic tribes roamed. Communication among the isolated cities was difficult and, at times, dangerous. Thus, each Sumerian city became a city-state, independent of the others and protective of its independence. At times one city would try to conquer and unify the region, but such efforts were resisted and failed for centuries. As a result, the political history of Sumer is one of almost constant warfare. Eventually Sumer was unified by Eannatum, but the unification was tenuous and failed to last as the Akkadians conquered Sumeria in 2331 BC only a generation later. The Akkadian Empire was the first successful empire to last beyond a generation and see the peaceful succession of kings. The empire was relatively short-lived, as the Babylonians conquered them within only a few generations.\n\nThe Mesopotamians believed their kings and queens were descended from the City of Gods, but, unlike the ancient Egyptians, they never believed their kings were real gods. Most kings named themselves “king of the universe” or “great king”. Another common name was “shepherd”, as kings had to look after their people.\n\nWhen Assyria grew into an empire, it was divided into smaller parts, called provinces. Each of these were named after their main cities, like Nineveh, Samaria, Damascus, and Arpad. They all had their own governor who had to make sure everyone paid their taxes. Governors also had to call up soldiers to war and supply workers when a temple was built. He was also responsible for enforcing the laws. In this way, it was easier to keep control of a large empire. Although Babylon was quite a small state in the Sumerian, it grew tremendously throughout the time of Hammurabi's rule. He was known as “the law maker”, and soon Babylon became one of the main cities in Mesopotamia. It was later called Babylonia, which meant \"the gateway of the gods.\" It also became one of history's greatest centers of learning.\n\nWith the end of the Uruk phase, walled cities grew and many isolated Ubaid villages were abandoned indicating a rise in communal violence. An early king Lugalbanda was supposed to have built the white walls around the city. As city-states began to grow, their spheres of influence overlapped, creating arguments between other city-states, especially over land and canals. These arguments were recorded in tablets several hundreds of years before any major war—the first recording of a war occurred around 3200 BC but was not common until about 2500 BC. An Early Dynastic II king (Ensi) of Uruk in Sumer, Gilgamesh (c. 2600 BC), was commended for military exploits against Humbaba guardian of the Cedar Mountain, and was later celebrated in many later poems and songs in which he was claimed to be two-thirds god and only one-third human. The later Stele of the Vultures at the end of the Early Dynastic III period (2600–2350 BC), commemorating the victory of Eannatum of Lagash over the neighbouring rival city of Umma is the oldest monument in the world that celebrates a massacre. From this point forwards, warfare was incorporated into the Mesopotamian political system. At times a neutral city may act as an arbitrator for the two rival cities. This helped to form unions between cities, leading to regional states. When empires were created, they went to war more with foreign countries. King Sargon, for example, conquered all the cities of Sumer, some cities in Mari, and then went to war with northern Syria. Many Assyrian and Babylonian palace walls were decorated with the pictures of the successful fights and the enemy either desperately escaping or hiding amongst reeds.\n\nCity-states of Mesopotamia created the first law codes, drawn from legal precedence and decisions made by kings. The codes of Urukagina and Lipit Ishtar have been found. The most renowned of these was that of Hammurabi, as mentioned above, who was posthumously famous for his set of laws, the Code of Hammurabi (created c. 1780 BC), which is one of the earliest sets of laws found and one of the best preserved examples of this type of document from ancient Mesopotamia. He codified over 200 laws for Mesopotamia. Examination of the laws show a progressive weakening of the rights of women, and increasing severity in the treatment of slaves\n\nThe art of Mesopotamia rivalled that of Ancient Egypt as the most grand, sophisticated and elaborate in western Eurasia from the 4th millennium BC until the Persian Achaemenid Empire conquered the region in the 6th century BC. The main emphasis was on various, very durable, forms of sculpture in stone and clay; little painting has survived, but what has suggests that painting was mainly used for geometrical and plant-based decorative schemes, though most sculpture was also painted.\n\nThe Protoliterate period, dominated by Uruk, saw the production of sophisticated works like the Warka Vase and cylinder seals. The Guennol Lioness is an outstanding small limestone figure from Elam of about 3000–2800 BC, part man and part lion. A little later there are a number of figures of large-eyed priests and worshippers, mostly in alabaster and up to a foot high, who attended temple cult images of the deity, but very few of these have survived. Sculptures from the Sumerian and Akkadian period generally had large, staring eyes, and long beards on the men. Many masterpieces have also been found at the Royal Cemetery at Ur (c. 2650 BC), including the two figures of a \"Ram in a Thicket\", the \"Copper Bull\" and a bull's head on one of the Lyres of Ur.\n\nFrom the many subsequent periods before the ascendency of the Neo-Assyrian Empire Mesopotamian art survives in a number of forms: cylinder seals, relatively small figures in the round, and reliefs of various sizes, including cheap plaques of moulded pottery for the home, some religious and some apparently not. The Burney Relief is an unusual elaborate and relatively large (20 x 15 inches) terracotta plaque of a naked winged goddess with the feet of a bird of prey, and attendant owls and lions. It comes from the 18th or 19th centuries BC, and may also be moulded. Stone stelae, votive offerings, or ones probably commemorating victories and showing feasts, are also found from temples, which unlike more official ones lack inscriptions that would explain them; the fragmentary Stele of the Vultures is an early example of the inscribed type, and the Assyrian Black Obelisk of Shalmaneser III a large and solid late one.\n\nThe conquest of the whole of Mesopotamia and much surrounding territory by the Assyrians created a larger and wealthier state than the region had known before, and very grandiose art in palaces and public places, no doubt partly intended to match the splendour of the art of the neighbouring Egyptian empire. The Assyrians developed a style of extremely large schemes of very finely detailed narrative low reliefs in stone for palaces, with scenes of war or hunting; the British Museum has an outstanding collection. They produced very little sculpture in the round, except for colossal guardian figures, often the human-headed lamassu, which are sculpted in high relief on two sides of a rectangular block, with the heads effectively in the round (and also five legs, so that both views seem complete). Even before dominating the region they had continued the cylinder seal tradition with designs which are often exceptionally energetic and refined.\n\nThe study of ancient Mesopotamian architecture is based on available archaeological evidence, pictorial representation of buildings, and texts on building practices. Scholarly literature usually concentrates on temples, palaces, city walls and gates, and other monumental buildings, but occasionally one finds works on residential architecture as well. Archaeological surface surveys also allowed for the study of urban form in early Mesopotamian cities.\n\nBrick is the dominant material, as the material was freely available locally, whereas building stone had to be brought a considerable distance to most cities. The ziggurat is the most distinctive form, and cities often had large gateways, of which the Ishtar Gate from Neo-Babylonian Babylon, decorated with beasts in polychrome brick, is the most famous, now largely in the Pergamon Museum in Berlin.\n\nThe most notable architectural remains from early Mesopotamia are the temple complexes at Uruk from the 4th millennium BC, temples and palaces from the Early Dynastic period sites in the Diyala River valley such as Khafajah and Tell Asmar, the Third Dynasty of Ur remains at Nippur (Sanctuary of Enlil) and Ur (Sanctuary of Nanna), Middle Bronze Age remains at Syrian-Turkish sites of Ebla, Mari, Alalakh, Aleppo and Kultepe, Late Bronze Age palaces at Bogazkoy (Hattusha), Ugarit, Ashur and Nuzi, Iron Age palaces and temples at Assyrian (Kalhu/Nimrud, Khorsabad, Nineveh), Babylonian (Babylon), Urartian (Tushpa/Van, Kalesi, Cavustepe, Ayanis, Armavir, Erebuni, Bastam) and Neo-Hittite sites (Karkamis, Tell Halaf, Karatepe). Houses are mostly known from Old Babylonian remains at Nippur and Ur. Among the textual sources on building construction and associated rituals are Gudea's cylinders from the late 3rd millennium are notable, as well as the Assyrian and Babylonian royal inscriptions from the Iron Age.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58152590", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58152590", "title": "Monmouthshire Houses", "text": "Monmouthshire Houses\n\nMonmouthshire Houses: A Study of Building Techniques and Smaller House-Plans in the Fifteenth to Seventeenth Centuries is a study of buildings within the county of Monmouthshire written by Sir Cyril Fox and Lord Raglan and published by Amgueddfa Cymru – National Museum Wales. The study was published in three volumes; \"Part I Medieval Houses\", \"Part II Sub-Medieval Houses, c. 1550–1610\" and \"Part III Renaissance Houses, c. 1590–1714\", between 1951 and 1954. The series was republished by Merton Priory Press in 1994. A later historian of Welsh architecture has described the work as equal in importance, in its own field, to Charles Darwin's \"On the Origin of Species\". \n\nSir Cyril Fox (1882–1967), was Director of the National Museum of Wales from 1926 to 1948. Fitzroy Somerset, Lord Raglan, the great-grandson of the 1st Lord Raglan, British Commander during the Crimean War, was a soldier, author and resident of Cefntilla Court in Monmouthshire. Raglan was also a Commissioner for Ancient Monuments in Wales and both he and Fox were pioneers of the study of vernacular architecture, being founder members of the Vernacular Architecture Group. From the early 1940s until 1949, Fox and Raglan undertook the most extensive survey of lesser Monmouthshire buildings ever undertaken. Raglan described their methodology in the introduction to the first volume, \"Medieval Houses\", published in 1951. He would identify houses of interest and obtain the necessary permissions from owners, before calling in Fox to undertake a detailed survey. In the Introduction to the 1994 reprint, Peter Smith, author of \"Houses of the Welsh Countryside\", recorded Raglan's approach; \"as we travelled from farmhouse to farmhouse, I realised that his was a name that carried weight and in Monmouthshire opened every door...status and personal charm carried the day and we followed in his wake\". The architectural historian, John Newman, author of the Pevsner for Monmouthshire, considered Fox and Raglan's joint work as \"ground-breaking, the single most important publication on any aspect of the county's buildings\", and Smith described \"Monmouthshire Houses\" as \"this landmark in the history of scholarship, a landmark, in its own field, as significant as Darwin's \"Origin of Species\"\".\n\nIn the Introduction to \"Sub-Medieval Houses\", the second volume of their history, Fox and Raglan record the genesis of the project. Wartime defensive precautions in 1941 led to a decision by the Ministry of Works to demolish an important farmhouse, Upper Wern-hir, near Llanbadoc. Fox and Raglan obtained permission to survey the building before its destruction and their investigations, together with the threats to Wern-hir and other, similar, buildings, convinced them of the need for a comprehensive survey of such structures throughout Monmouthshire.\n\nThe three-volume work comprises detailed studies of over 400 houses and farmhouses built in Monmouthshire between the medieval period and 1714. The volumes are:\n\n"}
{"id": "9797351", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9797351", "title": "Napoleon Cordy", "text": "Napoleon Cordy\n\nHannibal Napoleon David Alfred Thomas (\"Nap\") Cordy (July 29, 1902 — January 30, 1977) was an amateur scholar in the field of pre-Columbian Mesoamerican civilizations, who made some notable contributions in the 1930s and 1940s to the early study and decipherment of the Maya script, used by the pre-Columbian Maya of southern Mexico and northern Central America.\n\nCordy was born in 1902 in Cheltenham, England. His family emigrated to the United States in 1913, settling in Globe, Arizona. The son of a coal and copper miner, Cordy briefly studied mining engineering at the University of Arizona. He moved to Los Angeles, California in 1922.\n\nWhile working as an electrician at the Los Angeles Department of Water and Power from 1922–62, Cordy became fascinated with the Maya civilization, especially Maya hieroglyphs. He wrote a number of articles on the subject for various publications, and was a respected contributor to the journal \"The Masterkey\", published by the Southwest Museum in Los Angeles. He was also a founding member of the Southwestern Anthropological Association. Cordy died in Los Angeles in 1977, aged 74.\n\nHis daughter, Alana Cordy-Collins, became an anthropologist/archaeologist, specializing in the Peruvian prehistory, especially the Chavin and Moche civilizations. She was a professor of anthropology at the University of San Diego. A cousin, Ross Cordy, is an anthropologist specializing in Polynesian civilizations. He is chief archaeologist for the state of Hawaii's Historic Preservation Division and teaches at the University of Hawaii.\n\nCordy's publications include:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19833328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19833328", "title": "Oluf Rygh", "text": "Oluf Rygh\n\nOluf Rygh (5 September 1833 – 19 August 1899) was a noted Norwegian archaeologist, philologist and historian. Oluf Rygh is recognized as one of the founders of professional archaeology in Norway.\n\nOluf Rygh was born in Verdal. His parents were Peder Strand Rygh (1800–1868) and Ingeborg Marie Bentsen (1809–1878). He was the older brother of Evald Rygh and Karl Ditlev Rygh. Oluf Rygh attended the Trondhjem Cathedral School in 1850 and went to the University of Christiania to study philology, where he graduated in 1856. In 1858, while a teacher at Nissens Skole in Christiania, he was a research fellow for history. Later he was a professor of classical philology, history and Scandinavian languages.\n\nRygh was professor of history at the Royal Frederick University between 1866 and 1875. He was director of \"Oldsaksamlingen\" (which subsequently became the Museum of Cultural History) from 1862 and professor of Nordic archaeology from 1875 – the first professor of archaeology at any Scandinavian university. He led excavation of the Tune ship 1867. His work \"Norske Oldsaker\" (Norwegian Antiquities) published in 1885 is recognized for its detailed illustrations and even today is still a significant reference source.\n\nFrom 1879 to 1899 he chaired the Norwegian Historical Association.\n\nOluf Rygh is best known for creation of \"Norske Gaardnavne\" (Norwegian Farm Names), which is a 19 volume set of books based on a manuscript prepared from 1897 to 1924. The book contains a standardized notation, information on pronunciation, historical forms and the etymology for recorded farm, estate and manor names in Norway, which became the standard for place names in Norway. It inspired similar research in Sweden and Denmark. Rygh died in 1899 at Ulefoss in Holla, Telemark. At the time of his death, only three and one half volumes had been published.\n\nThe street \"Oluf Ryghs gate\" at Fagerborg has been named after him.\n\nHis more significant publications include: \n"}
{"id": "47382540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47382540", "title": "Ooni Aworokolokin", "text": "Ooni Aworokolokin\n\nOoni Aworokolokin was the 12th Ooni of Ife, a paramount traditional ruler of Ile Ife, the ancestral home of the Yorubas. He succeeded Odidimode Rogbeesin and was succeeded by \nOoni Ekun.\n"}
{"id": "10410662", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10410662", "title": "Paul Veyne", "text": "Paul Veyne\n\nPaul Veyne (; born 13 June 1930 in Aix-en-Provence) is a French archaeologist and historian, and a specialist on Ancient Rome. A former student of the École Normale Supérieure and member of the École française de Rome, he is now honorary professor at the Collège de France.\n\nFrom an ordinary background, which he described as \"uncultured\", Veyne took up archaeology and history by chance, at the age of eight, when he discovered a piece of an amphora on a Celtic site close to the village of Cavaillon. He developed a particular interest in Roman civilization since it was the best-known in the environment in which he grew up.\n\nThe family having moved to Lille, he assiduously studied the Roman collections of the archaeological museum there, where he received guidance from the curator. He maintains that his interest in the Greeks and Romans stems not from any humanist impulse or any specific admiration, but just from his chance discovery as a child.\n\nHaving come to Paris for his khâgne, he had a sudden moment of political awakening in front of the bas-relief that celebrates the liberation of the city at the bottom of the Boulevard St. Michel and joined the Communist Party of France. He left the party four years later, without ever having had a true political conviction.\n\nOn the other hand, the bad treatment of the Algerians at the hands of the colonials revolted him in equal measure to the atrocities of the Nazis. Once again, however, his shock was neither social nor political, but moral.\n\nPaul Veyne studied at the École Normale Supérieure in Paris 1951-55. He was a member of the École française de Rome 1955-1957, whereupon he settled in Aix-en-Provence as a professor at the University of Provence. It was in his years in Aix that he published his provocative \"Comment on écrit l'histoire\", an essay on the epistemology of history. At a time when the dominant trend in French historiography favored quantitative methods, Veyne's essay unabashedly declared history to be a \"true tale\". Through his essay he became an early representative for the interest in the narrative aspects of scientific history.\n\nHis monograph on Evergetism from 1975 (\"Le pain et le cirque\"), however, demonstrated that Veyne's concept of narrative somewhat differed from its common use, and that his differences with the hegemonic Annales school was smaller than what had seemed to be the case in 1970. The book is a comprehensive study of the practice of gift-giving, in the tradition of Marcel Mauss, more in line with the anthropologically influenced \"histoire des mentalités\" of the third \"Annalistes\" generation than with \"old-fashioned\" narrative history.\n\nIn 1975 Veyne entered the Collège de France thanks to the support of Raymond Aron, who had been abandoned by his former heir apparent Pierre Bourdieu. However, Veyne, by failing to cite the name of Aron in his inaugural lecture, aroused his displeasure, and according to Veyne he was persecuted by Aron ever since this perceived sign of his ingratitude. Veyne remained there from 1975 to 1999 as holder of the chair of Roman history.\n\nIn 1978 Veyne's epistemological essay was reissued in tandem with a new essay on Michel Foucault as a historian: \"Foucault révolutionne l'histoire.\" In this essay Veyne moved away from the insistence on history as narrative, and focused instead on how the work of Foucault constituted a major shift in historical thinking. The essence of the Foucauldian 'revolution' was, according to Veyne, a shift of attention from 'objects' to 'practices', to highlight the way the epistemological objects were brought into being, rather than the objects themselves. With this essay Veyne established himself as an idiosyncratic and important interpreter of his colleague. The relationship between the historian of antiquities and the philosopher also influenced Foucault's turn towards antiquity in the second volume of the \"History of Sexuality\", as well as his reading of liberalism in his public lectures (1978-9). In 2008 Veyne published a full-length book on Foucault, reworking some of the themes from his 1978 essay, expanding it to an intellectual portrait.\n\nPaul Veyne now lives in Bédoin, in the Vaucluse.\n\n\n\n\n\n[This article is a translation of part of the article in French Wikipedia.]\n\n"}
{"id": "6107761", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6107761", "title": "Peter Hume Brown", "text": "Peter Hume Brown\n\nPeter Hume Brown, FBA (17 December 1849 – 1 December 1918) was a Scottish historian and professor who played an important part in establishing Scottish history as a significant academic discipline. As well as teaching and writing, he spent 16 years as editor of the Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, and served as Historiographer Royal.\n\nHume Brown was born in Tranent but soon he and his widowed mother moved to Prestonpans, a few miles away, where he started at the Free Church school in 1857. After his mother's death in 1866 he stayed at the school as a pupil teacher for another three years.\n\nHe taught in England and Wales before starting a degree in theology at Edinburgh in 1872. He decided he had no vocation to be a minister and left in 1874, only to start a different course the following year, graduating as MA in 1878. In the meantime he had started on a lifelong \"loyal ... friendship\" with R. B. Haldane who shared some of his intellectual interests. He had also sold his theology books and bought Montaigne's \"Essays\" instead. For the rest of his life, Hume Brown's interest in French and German culture flourished alongside his dedication to the history of Scotland; the biographies he wrote of George Buchanan and John Knox gave full attention to the influence of continental Europe in their lives.\n\nAfter graduation he started a private school, and married the following year, 1879. His wife died only three years later, and Hume Brown gave up the school, earning a small living through private teaching and writing for \"Chambers' Encyclopaedia\", while tolerating periods of material \"privation\" to concentrate on his own independent studies. He had little hope of a university post in history, which at that time was not a well-supported subject at Edinburgh or other Scottish universities. He pursued his research and published his first book, \"George Buchanan, Humanist and Reformer\", in 1890. Three other books followed before his biography of Knox in 1895. In 1896 he was made an honorary LLD by Edinburgh, and later honorary degrees came from St Andrews and the University of Geneva.\n\nNow Hume Brown's reputation as a historian was established, Cambridge University Press commissioned a three-volume \"History of Scotland\". In the year the first volume was published, 1898, Hume Brown was asked to succeed David Masson, his old teacher, as editor of the Register of the Privy Council of Scotland, which not only brought him financial security, but untrammelled access to historically crucial 17th century documents.\n\nIn 1901 Edinburgh University made him its first professor of Scottish history, after receiving a bequest for this purpose. The appointment highlights Hume Brown's major role in \"establish[ing] the academic respectability of Scottish history\". When this new departure for the university was announced, Hume Brown was described as \"a man of new mark and likelihood among Scottish historical scholars\" whose book \"Scotland before 1700\" \"presents a view of Scotland based entirely upon contemporary native sources\". Before Hume Brown's inaugural address the principal expressed pleasure that \"there was being introduced a fresh subject into the work of the University.\" The new professor himself said it could not be a \"revolutionary step\" for a university to include study of \"the national history\".\n\nHume Brown was concerned with Scotland's nationhood, and saw the Reformation as a key period in the development of a national consciousness, when \"Scotland was entering on a new phase of her national life\". He lectured his students on the \"Making of Scotland\", while conceding that no historian could ever give a fully adequate account of the \"making\" of a nation. He was interested in studying Scotland in a European context more than in the context of the British Empire, and stressed that one country's history could only be understood by \"reference to the histories of other countries\". Though his writing style is considered restrained, he was more outgoing in conversation, entertaining friends and making an impression on the younger people around him.\n\nAt first his lectures only covered the years up to 1500, but when a second specialist on the history of Scotland, Henry Meikle, joined him in 1909, he added a course taking students up to 1800. He was invited to give prestigious lecture series at other universities, including the Rhind lectures for 1903 on \"Scotland in the Time of Queen Mary\" and the Ford Lectures for 1913/14. In 1908 he was made Historiographer Royal.\n\nLord Haldane, his mother and his sister Elizabeth were a lifelong support and regularly invited Hume Brown to their estate at Cloan in Perthshire, a change from the suburban home where he lived alone except for his dog. Between 1898 and 1912 he made annual trips with Haldane to Weimar where Goethe had lived, the two sharing an enthusiasm for Goethe's work and German literature in general. In 1913 Hume Brown brought out the first half of a biography of Goethe; the other volume would appear posthumously, nearly complete in 1918, but edited by Richard and Elizabeth Haldane who also published a collection of his lectures.\n\nHume Brown also admired the French literary critic Sainte-Beuve, and believed the study of history should not be separated from literature. Other writers whose work particularly influenced his thought were Montaigne and Renan.\n\nHe died suddenly on 1 December 1918, leaving behind him a substantial body of published work, and a new sense of Scottish history as a major academic subject. His will gave Edinburgh University not only a death mask of Goethe he had received from the Masson family, but money to fund a prize connected with his own field. The Hume Brown prize is now awarded biennially to a previously unpublished writer who makes an \"original contribution to Scottish History\".\n\n\n\n</div>\n\n"}
{"id": "36291903", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36291903", "title": "Philip de Jersey", "text": "Philip de Jersey\n\nPhilip de Jersey is a Guernsey archaeologist and numismatist. He is known as an expert on Celtic coins of the Iron Age.\n\nDe Jersey was born in Guernsey, and studied Geography at Hertford College, University of Oxford. After graduating he stayed on at Oxford University to study for a doctorate on the late Iron Age in north-west France.\n\nFrom 1992 to 2008 de Jersey was employed as keeper of the Oxford University Celtic Coin Index, and was responsible for the computerisation of the index. During his time in charge of the Celtic Coin Index the number of coins included on the database increased from about 14,000 to about 40,000.\n\nDe Jersey is an Honorary Research Fellow of the Heberden Coin Room at the Ashmolean Museum, and in 1999 was awarded the Council Prize of the British Numismatic Society.\n\n"}
{"id": "452557", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=452557", "title": "Prince Teimuraz of Georgia", "text": "Prince Teimuraz of Georgia\n\nTeimuraz Bagrationi () otherwise known as Tsarevich Teimuraz Georgievich () (April 23, 1782 – October 25, 1846) was a Georgian royal prince (\"batonishvili\") and scholar primarily known as an author of the first critical history in Georgian as well as for his work to popularize interest in the history and culture of Georgia and preserve its treasures.\n\nPrince Teimuraz was born in Tbilisi to Heir Apparent George, subsequently the last king of Georgia (Kingdom of Kartli and Kakheti) from 1798 to 1800, and his wife, Ketevan Andronikashvili. He studied at the Telavi Seminary, and, at the age of 13, took part in the 1795 Battle of Krtsanisi at which his grandfather, King Heraclius II of Georgia, was defeated by a Persian invading army under Agha Mohammad Khan Qajar. Teimuraz did not accept the Russian annexation of Georgia of 1801, which followed shortly after his father's death and fled to Persia, whence his uncle, Alexander fought to expel the Russians from Georgia. During the Russo-Persian War (1804-1813), Teimuraz was a Persian artillery commander. On October 16, 1810, however, he surrendered to the Russian authorities. On January 12, 1811, he settled in St Petersburg where he was granted a state salary and pension. In 1813, he acquired a mansion on Vasilievsky Island and concentrated on scholarly work. He collected and researched old Georgian chronicles and analyzed Greco-Roman and Armenian sources on Georgia. He was a collaborator and friend of Marie Brosset, a French scholar, whom he frequently consulted on the history of Georgia. At the same time, Prince Teiumraz befriended and tutored the young Georgian students in St Petersburg – Platon Ioseliani, and David Chubinashvili – both of whom eventually became prolific Georgian historians.\n\nIn the 1830s-1840s, he composed two major works on the early history of Georgia – \"ისტორია დაწყებითგან ივერიისა, ესე იგი გიორგიისა, რომელ არს სრულიად საქართველოჲსა\" (1832, \"History of Iberia or Georgia, that is All of Sakartvelo\") and \"ისტორია ძველი კოლხიდისა\" (1840, \"History of Ancient Colchis\") – and wrote commentaries to the 12th-century Georgian national epic \"The Knight in the Panther's Skin\" (\"განმარტება პოემა ვეფხისტყაოსანისა\", 1843). His articles were published in the Paris-based Journal Asiatique and Memoires inedits. He was elected an honorary member of the French Societe Asiatique (1831), the Russian Imperial Academy of Sciences (1837) and the Danish Royal Antiquarian Society (1838). Prince Teimuraz also authored several poems, and a memoir of his European travels as well as the Georgian translations of Tacitus, Voltaire, and Pushkin.\n\nHe died in Saint Petersburg and was buried there at the Alexander Nevsky Lavra.\n\n"}
{"id": "46727251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46727251", "title": "Robert Grant Haliburton", "text": "Robert Grant Haliburton\n\nRobert Grant Haliburton Q.C., D.C.L. (3 June 1831 – 6 March 1901) was a Canadian lawyer and anthropologist. He became famous after founding the Canada First organization that saw English Canadian society as the \"heirs of Aryan northmen\" and that the French Canadians were a \"bar to progress.\"\n\nHaliburton was born in Windsor, Nova Scotia. His father was the famous Judge Haliburton who wrote the best selling \"Clockmaker series\" about the humorous adventures of the Sam Slick character. Like his father he graduated from University of King's College and was part of the local volunteer militia where he rose to the rank of Lieutenant-colonel. He was a lawyer, called to the bar in 1853.\n\nThe \"Canada First\" movement was organized in Ottawa in 1868. It was at first supported by Goldwin Smith and Edward Blake. Ontario residents, George Denison, Charles Mair, William Alexander Foster and Robert Grant Haliburton founded the movement. Haliburton and like minded authors that made up the Canada First movement saw that the milder southern climate was said to lead to \"degeneration, decay, and effeminacy.\" The harsher northern climate they argued was said to produce the most Canadian of characteristics, \"the inclination to be moderate\". The Canada First movement saw the French Canadian and Métis cultures as dead weight that was holding the advancement of English Canada back.\n\nIll health required Haliburton to move to warmer climates and he spent his winters in Jamaica. After a lucrative career in law he was able to live off his investments and spent some time as an anthropologist and was instrumental in discovering the \"dwarf races\" of northern Africa and the Atlas region. A \"rover\" he died in Pass Christian, Mississippi, United States, on 6 March 1901; he was 69.\n\nNotes\n\nReferences \n\n"}
{"id": "58836391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58836391", "title": "Ruth Bettina Birn", "text": "Ruth Bettina Birn\n\nRuth Bettina Birn (born 1952) is a Canadian historian and author whose main field of research is the security forces of Nazi Germany and their role in the Holocaust. For nearly 15 years, she held a position of chief historian in the war crimes section at the Canadian Department of Justice. With Norman Finkelstein, Birn is the co-author of \"\".\n\nRuth Bettina Birn was born in 1952 in Stuttgart, West Germany. In 1985, she received her PhD from the Stuttgart University with the dissertation \"Die Höheren SS-und Polizeiführer: Himmlers Vertreter im Reich und in den besetzten Gebieten\" (\"Higher SS and Police Leaders: Himmler's Representatives in the Reich and the Occupied Territories\"), published in Düsseldorf in 1986 as a book. From 1991 to 2005, she was the chief historian at the War Crimes and Crimes Against Humanity Section of the Canadian Department of Justice.\n\nBirn studied the Estonian Security Police and SD, publishing a book on this topic, \"Die Sicherheitspolizei in Estland 1941 – 1944: Eine Studie zur Kollaboration im Osten\" (\"The Security Police in Estonia 1941 – 1944: A Study in Collaboration in the East\"). Based on hundreds of Security Police investigation files kept in the Estonian State Archives, the book analyzes the persecution policies against various victim groups: Communists, Jews, Roma, Russians, Soviet prisoners of war, and so-called asocials.\n\nSince the 1970s, Birn conducted research at the Central Office of the State Justice Administrations for the Investigation of National Socialist Crimes in Germany. She was sharply critical of the 1996 book by Daniel Goldhagen, \"Hitler's Willing Executioners\", who she accused of being highly selective with the materials from the Central Office in her article \"Historiographical review: Revising the Holocaust\", published in \"The Historical Journal\". The American political science professor Norman Finkelstein also published a critical article, \"Daniel Jonah Goldhagen's 'Crazy' Thesis\", in the UK political journal \"New Left Review\". \n\nFinkelstein's and Birn's essays were later published in book form as \"\". In response to their book, Goldhagen sought a retraction and apology from Birn, threatening at one point to sue her for libel and according to \"Salon\" declaring Finkelstein \"a supporter of Hamas\". The force of the counterattacks against Birn and Finkelstein from Goldhagen's supporters was described by Israeli journalist Tom Segev as \"bordering on cultural terrorism . . . The Jewish establishment has embraced Goldhagen as if he were Mr Holocaust himself (...). All this is absurd, because the criticism of Goldhagen is backed up so well.\"\n\nThe historian Hans Mommsen describes Birn's criticism as harsh; he writes that, in an effort to refute Goldhagen's assertion that Jews and Gentiles were treated completely differently by the regime, Birn comes \"close to obviously unintended apologetics\". At the same time, he regrets that Goldhagen reacted to Birn's criticism by threatening her and her editor with legal action, thus choosing this route in order \"to silence his academic critics\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26720723", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26720723", "title": "Serai Lashkari Khan", "text": "Serai Lashkari Khan\n\nSerai Lashkari Khan located on Highway number One near Gurdwara Manji Sahib, Kotan (near Doraha) in Ludhiana District, Punjab is a historical inn built by moghul military general Lashkari Khan, in the reign of Emperor Aurangzeb in 1667 AD.\n\nA specimen of major structural types of Islamic architecture, this is one of many Carvanserais meant to be halting places along the old Mughal highway connecting Agra, Delhi and Lahore. These caravanserais played an important role in economic, cultural and political life but gradually fell in disuse with shifting routes and advent of railroads in the nineteenth century. Many of these disappeared altogether due to modernization and urban expansion.\n\nThe historic inn, though, declared as a protected monument has largely been neglected and has been in a dilapidated condition.\n\nThis Serai was made popular after it was featured in the popular movie \"Rang De Basanti\" referred to by its acronym RDB. Some tourists started referring to it the RDB fort after that.\n\n"}
{"id": "8313471", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8313471", "title": "Siachen conflict", "text": "Siachen conflict\n\nThe Siachen conflict, sometimes referred to as the Siachen War, was a military conflict between India and Pakistan over the disputed Siachen Glacier region in Kashmir. A cease-fire went into effect in 2003. The contended area is nearly of territory. The conflict began in 1984 with India's successful Operation \"Meghdoot\" during which it gained control over all of the Siachen Glacier (unoccupied and undemarcated area). India has established control over all of the Siachen Glacier and all of its tributary glaciers, as well as all the main passes and heights of the Saltoro Ridge immediately west of the glacier, including Sia La, Bilafond La, and Gyong La. Pakistan controls the glacial valleys immediately west of the Saltoro Ridge. According to \"TIME\" magazine, India gained more than of territory because of its military operations in Siachen.\n\nThe Siachen Glacier is the highest battleground on earth, where India and Pakistan have fought intermittently since 13 April 1984. Both countries maintain permanent military presence in the region at a height of over . More than 2000 people have died in this inhospitable terrain, mostly due to weather extremes and the natural hazards of mountain warfare.\n\nThe conflict in Siachen stems from the incompletely demarcated territory on the map beyond the map coordinate known as NJ9842 (). The 1949 Karachi Agreement and 1972 Simla Agreement did not clearly mention who controlled the glacier, merely stating that the Cease Fire Line (CFL) terminated at NJ9842. UN officials presumed there would be no dispute between India and Pakistan over such a cold and barren region.\n\nFollowing the UN-mediated ceasefire in the 1949, the line between India and Pakistan was demarcated up to point NJ9842 at the foot of the Siachen Glacier. The largely inaccessible terrain beyond this point was not demarcated, but delimited as thence north to the glaciers in paragraph B 2 (d) of the Karachi Agreement.\n\nParagraph B 2 (d) of 1949 Karachi Agreement states:\nLater, following the Indo-Pakistani War of 1971, and the Simla Agreement in July 1972, the ceasefire line was converted into the \"Line of Control\" extending from the \"Chhamb sector on the international border [to] the Turtok-Partapur sector in the north.\" The detailed description of its northern end stated that from Chimbatia in the Turtok sector \"the line of control runs north-eastwards to Thang (inclusive to India), thence eastwards joining the glaciers.\" This vague formulation further sowed the seed for the bitter dispute to follow. The general description of CFL given in Section 1 of Karachi Agreement is further explained at Page 38 where it states:\"thence northwards along the boundary line going through Point 18402 up to NJ-9842\" The U.N. document number S/1430/Add.2. is the second addendum to the 1949 Karachi Agreement, and shows the CFL marked on the Map of the State of Jammu and Kashmir as per the explanation of CFL in paragraph 'B' 2 (d) of the Karachi Agreement.\n\nTitle of U.N. document number S/1430/Add.2 which illustrates the CFL as per the Karachi Agreement reads:\n\nMap of the State of Jammu and Kashmir showing the Cease Fire Line as Agreed Upon in the Karachi Agreement, Ratified by the Governments of India and Pakistan on 29 and 30 July Respectively. (See Annex 26 to the third Interim Report of the United Nation Commission for India and Pakistan)\n\nA U.N. map showing CFL alignment superimposed on a satellite image depicts the CFL terminating at NJ9842. The extension of this line \"thence north to the glaciers\" never appeared on any authoritative map associated with either the 1948 or 1972 agreements, just in the text.\n\nIn 1949, a Cease-Fire Line Agreement (CFL) was signed and ratified by India, Pakistan and the UN Military Observer Group that delineated entire CFL. In 1956–58, a scientific team led by the Geological Survey of India recorded its findings publicly including information about the Siachen and other glaciers.\n\nAfter Pakistan ceded Shaksgam Valley to China in a boundary agreement in 1963, Pakistan started giving approval to western expeditions to the east of mountain K2. In 1957 Pakistan permitted a British expedition under Eric Shipton to approach the Siachen glacier through the Bilafond La, and recce Saltoro Kangri. Five years later a Japanese-Pakistani expedition put two Japanese and a Pakistani Army climber on top of Saltoro Kangri. These were early moves in this particular game of oropolitics.\n\nIn the 1970s and early 1980s several mountaineering expeditions applied to Pakistan to climb high peaks in the Siachen area due in part to US Defense Mapping Agency and most other maps and atlases showing it on the Pakistani side of the line. Pakistan granted a number of permits. This in turn reinforced the Pakistani claim on the area, as these expeditions arrived on the glacier with a permit obtained from the Government of Pakistan. Teram Kangri I () and Teram Kangri II () were climbed in 1975 by a Japanese expedition led by H. Katayama, which approached through Pakistan via the Bilafond La.\n\nIn 1978 a German Siachen-Kondus Expedition under the leadership of Jaroslav Poncar (further members Volker Stallbohm and Wolfgang Kohl, liaison officer major Asad Raza) entered Siachen via Bilafond La and established the base camp on the confuence of Siachen and Teram Shehr. The documentary \"Expedition to the longest glacier\" was shown on the 3rd channel of WDR (German TV) in 1979.\n\nThe Indian government and military took notice, and protested the cartography. Prior to 1984 neither India nor Pakistan had any permanent presence in the area. Having become aware of the US military maps and the permit incidents, Colonel Narendra Kumar, then commanding officer of the Indian Army's High Altitude Warfare School, mounted an Army expedition to the Siachen area as a counter-exercise. In 1978 this expedition climbed Teram Kangri II, claiming it as a first ascent in a typical 'oropolitical' riposte. Unusually for the normally secretive Indian Army, the news and photographs of this expedition were published in The Illustrated Weekly of India, a widely circulated popular magazine.\n\nThe first public acknowledgment of the maneuvers and the developing conflict situation in the Siachen was an abbreviated article titled \"High Politics in the Karakoram\" by Joydeep Sircar in \"The Telegraph\" newspaper of Calcutta in 1982. The full text was re-printed as \"Oropolitics\" in the Alpine Journal, London, in 1984.\n\nMaps from Pakistan, the United Nations and other global atlases depicted the CFL correctly till around 1967–72. The United States Defense Mapping Agency (now National Geospatial-Intelligence Agency) began in about 1967 to show international boundary on their Tactical Pilotage Charts as proceeding from NJ9842 east-northeast to the Karakoram Pass at 5,534 m (18,136 ft) on the China border.\n\nUS, Pakistani and Indian maps in the 1970s and 1980s were consistently showing a dotted line from NJ9842 (the northernmost demarcated point of the India-Pakistan cease-fire line, also known as the \"Line of Control\") to the Karakoram Pass, which India believed to be a cartographic error.\n\nIn 1977, an Indian colonel named Narendra Kumar, offended by international expeditions venturing onto the glacier from the Pakistani side, persuaded his superiors to allow him to lead a 70-man team of climbers and porters to the glacier. They returned in or around 1981, climbed several peaks and walked the length of Siachen.\n\nAt army headquarters in Rawalpindi, the discovery of repeated Indian military expeditions to the glacier drove Pakistani generals to the idea of securing Siachen before India did. This operation was called Operation Ababeel. In the haste to pull together operational resources, Pakistan planners made a tactical error, according to a now retired Pakistani army colonel. \"They ordered Arctic-weather gear from a London outfitters who also supplied the Indians,\" says the colonel. \"Once the Indians got wind of it, they ordered 300 outfits—twice as many as we had—and rushed their men up to Siachen\". The acquisition of key supplies needed for operations in glaciated zones marked the start of major combat operations on the glacier. \n\nApril 1984 Operation Meghdoot: Indian Army under the leadership of Lt. Gen. Manohar Lal Chibber, Maj. Gen. Shiv Sharma, and Lt. Gen. P. N. Hoon learned of the plan by Pakistan Army to seize Sia La, and Bilafond La, on the glacier. Indian Army launched an operation to preempt the seizure of the passes by the Pakistan Army. Men of the Ladakh Scouts and Kumaon Regiment occupy Bilafond La on 13 April and Sia La on 17 April 1984 with the help of the Indian Air Force. Pakistan Army in turn learned of the presence of Ladakh Scouts on the passes during a helicopter recon mission. In response to these developments Pakistan Army initiated an operation using troops from the Special Services Group and Northern Light Infantry to displace the three hundred or so Indian troops on the key passes. This operation led by the Pakistan Army led to the first armed clash on the glacier on 25 April 1984.\n\nJune – July 1987: Operation Rajiv: Over the next three years, with Indian troops positioned at the critical passes, Pakistan Army attempted to seize heights overlooking the passes. One of the biggest successes achieved by Pakistan in this period was the seizure of a feature overlooking Bilafond La. This feature was named \"Qaid Post\" and for three years it dominated Indian positions on the glacier. Pakistani Army held Qaid post overlooked Bilafond La area and offered and excellent vantage point to view Indian Army activities. On 25 June 1987 Indian Army under the leadership of Brig. Gen. Chandan Nugyal, Major Varinder Singh, Lt. Rajiv Pande and Naib Subedar Bana Singh launched a successful strike on Qaid Post and captured it from Pakistani forces. For his role in the assault, Subedar Bana Singh was awarded the Param Vir Chakra – India's highest gallantry award. The post was renamed Bana Post in his honour.\n\nSeptember 1987: Operation Vajrashakti/Op Qaidat: The Pakistan Army under Brig. Gen. Pervez Musharraf (later President of Pakistan) launched Operation Qaidat to retake Qaid peak. For this purpose units from Pakistan Army SSG (1st and 3rd battalions) assembled a major task force at the newly constructed Khaplu garrison. Having detected Pakistani movements ahead of Operation Qaidat, the Indian Army initiated Op Vajrashakti to secure the now renamed Bana Post from Pakistani attack.\n\nMarch – May 1989: In March 1989 Operation Ibex by Indian Army attempted to seize the Pakistani post overlooking the Chumik Glacier. The operation was unsuccessful at dislodging Pakistani troops from their positions. Indian Army under Brig. R. K. Nanavatty launched an artillery attack on Kauser Base, the Pakistani logistical node in Chumik and successfully destroyed it. The destruction of Kauser Base induced Pakistani troops to vacate Chumik posts concluding Operation Ibex.\n\n28 July – 3 August 1992: Indian Army launched Operation Trishul Shakti to protect the Bahadur post in Chulung when it was attacked by a large Pakistani assault team. On 1 August 1992, Pakistani helicopters were attacked by an Indian Igla missile and Brig. Masood Navid Anwari (PA 10117) then Force Commander Northern Areas and other accompanying troops were killed. This led to a loss of momentum on the Pakistani side and the assault stalled.\n\nMay 1995: Battle of Tyakshi Post: Pakistan Army NLI units attacked Tyakshi post at the very southern edge of the Saltoro defense line. The attack was repulsed by Indian troops.\n\nJune 1999: Indian Army under Brig. P. C. Katoch, Col. Konsam Himalaya Singh seized control of pt 5770 (Naveed Top/Cheema Top/Bilal Top) in southern edge of the Saltoro defense line from Pakistan troops.\n\nIn , former Pakistani president General Pervez Musharraf states that Pakistan lost almost of territory that it claimed. \"TIME\" states that the Indian advance captured nearly of territory claimed by Pakistan.\n\nFurther attempts to reclaim positions were launched by Pakistan in 1990, 1995, 1996 and even in early 1999, just prior to the Lahore Summit.\n\nThe Indian army controls all of the long Siachen Glacier and all of its tributary glaciers, as well as all the main passes and heights of the Saltoro Ridge immediately west of the glacier, including Sia La, Bilafond La, and Gyong La—thus holding onto the tactical advantage of high ground. Indians have been able to hold on to the tactical advantage of the high ground... Most of India's many outposts are west of the Siachen Glacier along the Saltoro Range. In an academic study with detailed maps and satellite images, co-authored by brigadiers from both the Pakistani and Indian military, pages 16 and 27: \"Since 1984, the Indian army has been in physical possession of most of the heights on the Saltoro Range west of the Siachen Glacier, while the Pakistan army has held posts at lower elevations of western slopes of the spurs emanating from the Saltoro ridgeline. The Indian army has secured its position on the ridgeline.\"\n\nThe line between where Indian and Pakistani troops are presently holding onto their respective posts is being increasingly referred to as the Actual Ground Position Line (AGPL).\n\nSiachen is seen as a major military setback by the Pakistani Army. Pakistani generals perceives the Siachen glacier as their land that had been stolen by Indians. When India occupied the Saltoro Ridge in April 1984, Benazir Bhutto publicly taunted the Pakistan Army as \"fit only to fight its own citizens\". When, in June 1987, the Indian Army captured the 21,153 foot high \"Quaid Post\" and renamed it to \"Bana Top\", in honour of Naib Subedar Bana Singh, Bhutto once again publicly taunted the Pakistani generals, telling them to wear bangles if they cannot fight on the Siachen.\n\nAmerican observers say that the military conflict between India and Pakistan over the Siachen Glacier \"made no military or political sense\". \nAn article in the Minneapolis Star Tribune stated: \"Their combat over a barren, uninhabited world of questionable value is a forbidding symbol of their lingering, irreconcilability.\" Stephen P. Cohen compared the conflict to \"a struggle between two bald men over a comb. Siachen is a symbol of the worst aspects of their relationship.\"\n\nIn the book \"Asymmetric Warfare in South Asia: The Causes and Consequences of the Kargil Conflict\", Khan, Lavoy and Clary wrote: The Pakistan army sees India's 1984 occupation of the Siachen Glacier as a major scar, outweighed only by Dhaka's fall in 1971. The event underscored the dilution of the Simla Agreement and became a domestic issue as political parties, led by Benazir Bhutto's Peoples Party, blamed an incompetent military government under Zia ul-Haq for failing to defend Pakistani-held territory — while Zia downplayed the significance of the loss.\n\nGeneral Ved Prakash Malik, in his book \"Kargil from Surprise to Victory\", wrote: Siachen is considered a military setback by the Pakistan Army. That the Indians dominate the area from the Saltoro Ridge and Pakistani troops are nowhere near the Siachen Glacier is a fact never mentioned in public. The perceived humiliation at Siachen manifests itself in many ways. It is synonymous with Indian perfidy and a violation of the Shimla Agreement... In Pakistan, Siachen is a subject that hurts, just like a thorn in its flesh; it is also a psychological drain on the Pakistani Army. Pervez Musharraf had himself once commanded the Special Services Group (SSG) troops in this area and made several futile attempts to capture Indian posts.\n\nA cease-fire went into effect in 2003. Even before then, every year more soldiers were killed because of severe weather than enemy firing. The two sides by 2003 had lost an estimated 2,000 personnel primarily due to frostbite, avalanches and other complications. Together, the nations have about 150 manned outposts along the glacier, with some 3,000 troops each. Official figures for maintaining these outposts are put at ~$300 and ~$200 million for India and Pakistan respectively. India built the world's highest helipad on the glacier at Point Sonam, 21,000 feet (6,400 m) above the sea level, to supply its troops. The problems of reinforcing or evacuating the high-altitude ridgeline have led to India's development of the Dhruv Mk III helicopter, powered by the Shakti engine, which was flight-tested to lift and land personnel and stores from the Sonam post, the highest permanently manned post in the world. India also installed the world's highest telephone booth on the glacier.\n\nAccording to some estimates, 97% of the casualties in Siachen have been due to weather and altitude, rather than actual fighting. In 2012, an avalanche hit Pakistan's Gayari military base, killing 129 soldiers and 11 civilians.\n\nOne of the factors behind the Kargil War in 1999 when Pakistan sent infiltrators to occupy vacated Indian posts across the Line of Control was their belief that India would be forced to withdraw from Siachen in exchange of a Pakistani withdrawal from Kargil. After the Kargil War, India decided to maintain its military outposts on the glacier, wary of further Pakistani incursions into Kashmir if they vacate from the Siachen Glacier posts.\n\nOn 12 June 2005, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh became the first Indian Prime Minister to visit the area, calling for a peaceful resolution of the problem. In 2007, the President of India, Abdul Kalam became the first head of state to visit the area. Indian Prime Minister Narendra Modi visited Siachen on 23 October 2014 to celebrate Diwali with the troops and boost their morale.\n\nThe Chief of Staff of the US Army, General George Casey on 17 October 2008 visited the Siachen Glacier along with Indian Army Chief, General Deepak Kapoor. The US General visited for the purpose of \"developing concepts and medical aspects of fighting in severe cold conditions and high altitude\".\n\nSince September 2007, India has welcomed mountaineering and trekking expeditions to the forbidding glacial heights. The expeditions have been meant to show the international audience that Indian troops hold \"almost all dominating heights\" on the important Saltoro Ridge west of Siachen Glacier, and to show that Pakistani troops are nowhere near the Siachen Glacier.\n\nThe Siachen glacier and its conflict was depicted in a 48-page comic book, \"Siachen: The cold war\", released in August 2012. Later its sequel, \"Battlefield Siachen\", was released in January 2013.\n\nOn 11 February 2010, an avalanche struck an Indian army post in the Southern Glacier, killing one soldier. A base camp was also struck, that killed two Ladakh scouts. The same day, a single avalanche hit a Pakistani military camp in Bevan sector, killing 8 soldiers.\n\nIn 2011, 24 Indian soldiers died on the Siachen glacier from the climate and accidents. On 22 July, two Indian officers burned to death when a fire caught on their shelter.\n\nIn the early morning of 7 April 2012, an avalanche hit a Pakistani military headquarters in the Gayari Sector, burying 129 soldiers of the 6th Northern Light Infantry battalion and 11 civilian contractors. In the aftermath of the disaster, Pakistan's army chief General Ashfaq Parvez Kayani suggested India and Pakistan should withdraw all troops from the contested glacier.\n\nOn 29 May, two Pakistani soldiers were killed in a landslide in the Chorbat Sector.\n\nOn 12 December, an avalanche killed 6 Indian soldiers in the Sub Sector Hanif in Turtuk area, when troops of the 1st Assam regiment were moving between posts. In 2012, a total of 12 Indian soldiers died of hostile weather conditions.\n\nIn 2013, 10 Indian soldiers died due to weather conditions.\n\nOn 14 November 2015, an Indian captain from the Third Ladakh scouts died in an avalanche in the Southern Glacier while 15 others were rescued.\n\nOn 4 January 2016, four Indian soldiers of the Ladakh Scouts, were killed in an avalanche on the Southern Glacier while on patrol duty in Nobra Valley.\n\nOn the morning of 3 February 2016, ten Indian soldiers including one Junior commissioned officer of the 6th Madras battalion were buried under the snow when a massive avalanche struck their post in the Northern Glacier at a height of 19,600 feet, on the Actual Ground Position Line. Pakistani officials offered their help in search and rescue operations 30 hours after the incident, although it was declined by Indian military authorities. During the rescue operations, the Indian army found Lance Naik Hanumanthappa alive, though in a critical condition, after being buried under 25 feet snow for 6 days. He was taken to Army Research and Referral Hospital in Delhi. His condition became critical later on due to multiple organ failure and lack of oxygen to brain and he died 11 February 2016.\n\nOn 27 February, a civilian porter working with the Indian army in the Northern Glacier, fell to his death in a 130-foot crevasse.\n\nOn 17 March, two Indian soldiers from the Chennai-21 regiment were killed, and bodies recovered in 12-feet deep ice.\n\nOn 25 March, two Indian jawans died after they were buried in an avalanche in the Turtuk sector while on patrol.\n\nOn 1 April, Indian General Dalbir Singh and General D. S. Hooda of the Northern Command visited the Siachen glacier in order to boost morale after 17 of its soldiers died in 2016.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45426498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45426498", "title": "Slavko Mijušković", "text": "Slavko Mijušković\n\nSlavko Mijušković (, June 28, 1912 – December 15, 1989) was a Yugoslav historian, who studied the history of Montenegro and especially the Bay of Kotor.\n\nMijušković was born in Kotor. He died in Kotor.\n\n\nMijušković stated that the \"Chronicle of the Priest of Duklja\" is a purely fictional literary product, belonging to the late 14th or early 15th century.\n\n"}
{"id": "40624269", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40624269", "title": "Trabecular cartilage", "text": "Trabecular cartilage\n\nTrabecular cartilages (trabeculae cranii, sometimes simply trabeculae, prechordal cartilages) are paired, rod-shaped cartilages, which develop in the head of the vertebrate embryo. They are the primordia of the anterior part of the cranial base, and are derived from the cranial neural crest cells.\n\nThe trabecular cartilages generally appear as a paired, rod-shaped cartilages at the ventral side of the forebrain and lateral side of the adenohypophysis in the vertebrate embryo. During development, their anterior ends fuse and form the \"trabecula communis\". Their posterior ends fuse with the caudal-most parachordal cartilages.\n\nMost skeletons are of mesodermal origin in vertebrates. Especially axial skeletal elements, such as the vertebrae, are derived from the paraxial mesoderm (e.g., somites), which is regulated by molecular signals from the notochord. Trabecular cartilages, however, originate from the neural crest, and since they are located anterior to the rostral tip of the notochord, they cannot receive signals from the notochord. Due to these specialisations, and their essential role in cranial development, many comparative morphologists and embryologists have argued their developmental or evolutionary origins. The general theory is that the trabecular cartilage is derived from the neural crest mesenchyme which fills anterior to the mandibular arch (premandibular domain).\n\nAs clearly seen in the lamprey, Cyclostome also has a pair of cartilaginous rods in the embryonic head which is similar to the trabecular cartilages in jawed vertebrates.\nHowever, in 1916, Alexej Nikolajevich Sewertzoff pointed out that the cranial base of the lamprey is exclusively originated from the paraxial mesoderm. Then in 1948, reported the detail of the skeletogenesis of the lamprey, and showed that the “trabecular cartilages” in lamprey appear just beside the notochord, in a similar position to the parachordal cartilages in jawed vertebrates. Recent experimental studies also showed that the cartilages are derived from the head mesoderm. The “trabecular cartilages” in the Cyclostome is no longer considered to be the homologue of the trabecular in the jawed vertebrates: the (true) trabecular cartilages were firstly acquired in the Gnathostome lineage.\n\nThe trabecular cartilages were first described in the grass snake by at 1839. In 1874, Thomas Henry Huxley suggested that the trabecular cartilages are a modified part of the splanchnocranium: they arose as the serial homologues of the pharyngeal arches.\n\nThe vertebrate jaw is generally thought to be the modification of the mandibular arch (1st pharyngeal arch). Since the trabecular cartilages appear anterior to the mandibular arch, if the trabecular cartilages are serial homologues of the pharyngeal arches, ancestral vertebrates should possess more than one pharyngeal arch (so-called \"premandibular arches\") anterior to the mandibular arch. The existence of premandibular arch(es) has been accepted by many comparative embryologists and morphologists (e.g., Edwin Stephen Goodrich, Gavin de Beer). Moreover, reported premandibular arches and the corresponding branchiomeric nerves by the reconstruction of the Osteostracans (e.g., \"Cephalaspis\"; recently this arch was reinterpreted as the mandibular arch)\n\nHowever, the existence of the premandibular arch(es) has been rejected, and the trabecular cartilages are no longer assumed to be one of the pharyngeal arches.\n\n"}
{"id": "159273", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=159273", "title": "United States invasion of Grenada", "text": "United States invasion of Grenada\n\nThe United States invasion of Grenada began on 25 October 1983. The invasion, led by the United States, of the Caribbean island nation of Grenada, which has a population of about 91,000 and is located north of Venezuela, resulted in a U.S. victory within a matter of days. Codenamed Operation Urgent Fury, it was triggered by the internal strife within the People's Revolutionary Government that resulted in the house arrest and the execution of the previous leader and second Prime Minister of Grenada Maurice Bishop, and the establishment of a preliminary government, the Revolutionary Military Council with Hudson Austin as Chairman. The invasion resulted in the appointment of an interim government, followed by democratic elections in 1984. The country has remained a democratic nation since then.\n\nGrenada gained independence from the United Kingdom in 1974. The Marxist-Leninist New Jewel Movement seized power in a coup in 1979 under Maurice Bishop, suspending the constitution and detaining a number of political prisoners. Among Bishop's core principles were workers' rights, women's rights, and the struggle against racism and Apartheid. Under Bishop's leadership, the National Women’s Organization was formed which participated in policy decisions along with other social groups. Women were given equal pay and paid maternity leave, and sex discrimination was made illegal. Organisations for education (Center for Popular Education), health care, and youth affairs (National Youth Organization) were also established. In 1983, an internal power struggle began over Bishop's relatively moderate foreign policy approach, and on 19 October, hard-line military junta elements captured and executed Bishop and his partner Jacqueline Creft, along with three cabinet ministers and two union leaders. Subsequently, following appeals by the Organisation of Eastern Caribbean States and the Governor-General of Grenada, Paul Scoon, the Reagan Administration in the U.S. quickly decided to launch a military intervention. U.S. President Ronald Reagan's justification for the intervention was in part explained as \"concerns over the 600 U.S. medical students on the island\" and fears of a repeat of the Iran hostage crisis.\n\nThe U.S. invasion began six days after Bishop's death, on the morning of 25 October 1983, just two days and several hours after the bombing of the U.S. Marine barracks in Beirut. The invading force consisted of the U.S. Army's Rapid Deployment Force (the 1st and 2nd Ranger Battalions and 82nd Airborne Division paratroopers); U.S. Marines (22nd MAU); U.S. Army Delta Force; U.S. Navy SEALs, and ancillary forces totaling 7,600 U.S.troops, together with Jamaican forces, and troops of the Regional Security System (RSS).\nUSAF Pararescue and TACP personnel from the 21St Tass, Shaw AFB were attached to various other Special Operations Units during the Grenada conflict. The invasion force defeated Grenadian resistance after a low-altitude airborne assault by Rangers on Point Salines Airport at the south end of the island, and a Marine helicopter and amphibious landing on the north end at Pearls Airport. The military government of Hudson Austin was deposed and replaced by a government appointed by Governor-General Paul Scoon.\n\nThe invasion was criticized by several countries including Canada. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher privately disapproved of the mission and the lack of notice she received, but publicly supported the intervention. The United Nations General Assembly, on 2 November 1983 with a vote of 108 to 9, condemned it as \"a flagrant violation of international law\". Conversely, it enjoyed broad public support in the United States and, over time, a positive evaluation from the Grenadian population, who appreciated the fact that there had been relatively few civilian casualties, as well as the return to democratic elections in 1984. The U.S. awarded more than 5,000 medals for merit and valor.\n\nThe date of the invasion is now a national holiday in Grenada, called Thanksgiving Day, which commemorates the freeing, after the invasion, of several political prisoners who were subsequently elected to office. A truth and reconciliation commission was launched in 2000 to re-examine some of the controversies of the era; in particular, the commission made an unsuccessful attempt to find Bishop's body, which had been disposed of at Hudson Austin's order, and never found.\n\nFor the U.S., the invasion also highlighted issues with communication and coordination between the different branches of the United States military when operating together as a joint force, contributing to investigations and sweeping changes in the form of the Goldwater-Nichols Act and other reorganizations.\n\nSir Eric Gairy had led Grenada to independence from the United Kingdom in 1974. His term in office coincided with civil strife in Grenada. The political environment was highly charged and although Gairy—head of the Grenada United Labour Party—claimed victory in the general election of 1976, the opposition did not accept the result as legitimate. The civil strife took the form of street violence between Gairy's private army, the Mongoose Gang, and gangs organized by the New Jewel Movement (NJM). In the late 1970s the NJM began planning to overthrow the government. Party members began to receive military training outside of Grenada. On 13 March 1979, while Gairy was out of the country, the NJM—led by Maurice Bishop—launched an armed revolution and overthrew the government, establishing the People's Revolutionary Government.\n\nThe Bishop government began constructing the Point Salines International Airport with the help of Britain, Cuba, Libya, Algeria, and other nations. The airport had been first proposed by the British government in 1954, when Grenada was still a British colony. It had been designed by Canadians, underwritten by the British government, and partly built by a London firm. The U.S. government accused Grenada of constructing facilities to aid a Soviet-Cuban military buildup in the Caribbean based upon the 9,000-foot length runway, which could accommodate the largest Soviet aircraft like the An-12, An-22, and the An-124, which would enhance the Soviet and Cuban transportation of weapons to Central American insurgents and expand Soviet regional influence. Bishop's government claimed that the airport was built to accommodate commercial aircraft carrying tourists, pointing out that such jets could not land at Pearls Airport on the island's north end (5,200 feet) and could not be expanded because its runway abutted a mountain at one end and the ocean at the other.\n\nIn 1983, then-member of the United States House of Representatives Ron Dellums (D, California), traveled to Grenada on a fact-finding mission, having been invited by the country's prime minister. Dellums described his findings before Congress:\n... based on my personal observations, discussion and analysis of the new international airport under construction in Grenada, it is my conclusion that this project is specifically now and has always been for the purpose of economic development and is not for military use. ... It is my thought that it is absurd, patronizing, and totally unwarranted for the United States government to charge that this airport poses a military threat to the United States' national security.\n\nIn March 1983, President Ronald Reagan began issuing warnings about the threat posed to the United States and the Caribbean by the \"Soviet-Cuban militarization\" of the Caribbean as evidenced by the excessively long airplane runway being built, as well as intelligence sources indicating increased Soviet interest in the island. He said that the runway and the numerous fuel storage tanks were unnecessary for commercial flights, and that evidence indicated that the airport was to become a Cuban-Soviet forward military airbase.\n\nOn 29 May 2009 the Point Salines International Airport was officially renamed the Maurice Bishop International Airport, in honour of the slain pre-coup leader Maurice Bishop by the Government of Grenada.\n\nOn 16 October 1983, a party faction led by Deputy Prime Minister Bernard Coard seized power. Bishop was placed under house arrest. Mass protests against the action led to Bishop's escaping detention and reasserting his authority as the head of the government. Bishop was eventually captured and murdered, along with his pregnant partner, and several government officials and union leaders loyal to him. The army under Hudson Austin then stepped in and formed a military council to rule the country. The governor-general, Paul Scoon, was placed under house arrest. The army announced a four-day total curfew where anyone seen on the streets would be subject to summary execution.The Organization of Eastern Caribbean States (OECS), as well as the nations of Barbados and Jamaica, appealed to the United States for assistance. It was later announced that Grenada's governor-general, Paul Scoon, had actually requested the invasion through secret diplomatic channels and for his safety it had not been made public. Scoon was well within his rights to take this action under the reserve powers vested in the Crown. On Saturday 22 October 1983, the Deputy High Commissioner in Bridgetown, Barbados visited Grenada and reported that Sir Paul Scoon was well and \"did not request military intervention, either directly or indirectly\". However, in his book, \"Survival for Service\", Scoon confirmed that he had invited the United States and Caribbean nations to intervene militarily, before the invasion.\n\nOn 25 October, Grenada was invaded by the combined forces of the United States and the Regional Security System (RSS) based in Barbados, in an operation codenamed \"Operation Urgent Fury\". The U.S. stated this was done at the request of the prime ministers of Barbados and Dominica, Tom Adams and Dame Eugenia Charles, respectively. Nonetheless, the invasion was highly criticized by the governments in Canada, Trinidad and Tobago, and the United Kingdom. The United Nations General Assembly condemned it as \"a flagrant violation of international law\" by a vote of 108 in favour to 9, with 27 abstentions. The United Nations Security Council considered a similar resolution, which failed to pass when vetoed by the United States.\n\nThe invasion commenced at 05:00 on 25 October 1983. U.S. forces refuelled and departed from the Grantley Adams International Airport on the nearby Caribbean island of Barbados before daybreak en route to Grenada. It was the first major operation conducted by the U.S. military since the Vietnam War. Vice Admiral Joseph Metcalf, III, Commander Second Fleet, was the overall commander of U.S. forces, designated Joint Task Force 120, which included elements of each military service and multiple special operations units. Fighting continued for several days and the total number of U.S. troops reached some 7,000 along with 300 troops from the Organization of American States (OAS). The invading forces encountered about 1,500 Grenadian soldiers and about 700 armed Cuban nationals manning defensive positions. Grenada's security forces possessed no tanks, only eight BTR-60PB armored personnel carriers and two BRDM-2 scout cars they had received from the Soviet Union in February 1981. Their arsenal also included twelve ZU-23 anti-aircraft guns, DShK heavy machine guns, and a limited number of M37 82mm mortars and RPG-7 launchers.\n\nThe main objectives on the first day of the invasion were the capture of the Point Salines International Airport by the 75th Ranger Regiment, to permit the 82nd Airborne Division to land reinforcements on the island; the capture of Pearls Airport by the 8th Marine Regiment; and the rescue of the U.S. students at the True Blue Campus of St. George's University. In addition, a number of special operations missions were undertaken to obtain intelligence and secure key individuals and equipment. In general, many of these missions were plagued by inadequate intelligence, planning, and accurate maps of any kind (the U.S. forces mostly relied upon tourist maps).\n\nThe nature of the Cuban military presence in Grenada was more complex than initially thought. As in Angola, Ethiopia, and other nations with large numbers of Cuban troops, the line between civilians and military personnel was blurred. For example, Fidel Castro often described Cuban construction crews deployed overseas as \"workers and soldiers at the same time,\" the dual nature of their role being consistent with Havana's 'citizen soldier' tradition. At the time of the invasion, there were an estimated 784 Cuban nationals on the island. At least 636 Cubans were formally listed as construction workers, another 64 as military personnel, and 18 as dependents. The remainder were either medical staff or teachers. Colonel Pedro Tortoló Comas, the highest ranking Cuban military official in Grenada in 1983, later stated that he issued weapons and ammunition to many of the construction workers for the purpose of self-defense. According to journalist Bob Woodward in his book \"Veil\", captured \"military advisors\" from socialist countries were actually accredited diplomats and their dependents. None, Woodward claimed, took any actual part in the fighting. Other historians have asserted that most of the supposed civil technicians on Grenada were Cuban special forces and combat engineers. Cuban nationals were expressly forbidden to surrender to U.S. forces.\n\nU.S. Special Operations Forces were deployed to Grenada beginning on 23 October, before the 25 October invasion. U.S. Navy SEALs from SEAL Team Six with Air Force combat controllers were airdropped at sea to perform a reconnaissance mission on Point Salines, resulting in four SEALs dying. The bodies of Machinist Mate 1st Class Kenneth J. Butcher, Quartermaster 1st Class Kevin E. Lundberg, Hull Technician 1st Class Stephen L. Morris and Senior Chief Engineman Robert R. Schamberger were never recovered. The survivors continued their mission, but their boats flooded while evading a patrol boat, causing the mission to be aborted. A SEAL mission on 24 October also was unsuccessful due to harsh weather, resulting in little intelligence being gathered in advance of the impending U.S. intervention.\n\nAt midnight on 24 October, A and B companies of the 1st Battalion of the 75th Ranger Regiment embarked on C-130s at Hunter Army Airfield to perform an air assault landing on Point Salines International Airport. Initially intending to land at the airport and then disembark, the Rangers had to switch abruptly to a parachute landing when it was learned mid-flight that the runway was obstructed. The air drop began at 05:30 on 25 October in the face of moderate resistance from ZU-23 anti-aircraft guns and several BTR-60 APCs, the latter of which were knocked out by 90mm recoilless rifles. AC-130 gunships provided support for the landing. Cuban construction vehicles were commandeered to help clear the airfield, and one was even used to provide mobile cover for the Rangers as they moved to seize the heights surrounding the airfield.\n\nBy 10:00, the airstrip had been cleared of obstructions and transport planes were able to land and unload additional reinforcements, including M151 Jeeps and elements of the Caribbean Peace Force, who were assigned to guard the perimeter and detainees. Starting at 14:00, units from the 82nd Airborne Division, under MG Edward Trobaugh, began landing at Point Salines, including battalions of the 325th Infantry Regiment. At 15:30, a counterattack by three BTR-60s of the Grenadian Army Motorized Company was repelled with fire from recoilless rifles and an AC-130.\n\nThe Rangers fanned out and secured the surrounding area, including negotiating the surrender of over a hundred Cubans in an aviation hangar. However, a Jeep-mounted Ranger patrol became lost searching for True Blue Campus and was ambushed, with four killed. The Rangers eventually secured True Blue campus and its students, where they were shocked to discover only 140 students, and were told that more were at another campus in Grand Anse. In all, the Rangers lost five men on the first day, but succeeded in securing Point Salines and the surrounding area.\n\nClose to midnight on 24 October, a platoon of Navy SEALs from SEAL Team 4 under Lieutenant Mike Walsh approached the beach near Pearls Airport. After evading patrol boats and overcoming stormy weather, they found that the beach was undefended, but unsuitable for an amphibious landing. The 2nd Battalion of the 8th Marine Regiment then landed south of Pearls Airport using CH-46 Sea Knight and CH-53 Sea Stallion helicopters at 05:30 on 25 October. The Marines then captured Pearls Airport, encountering only light resistance, including a DShK machine gun which was destroyed by a Marine AH-1 Cobra.\n\nIn the early morning of 25 October, UH-60 Blackhawk helicopters delivered SEAL Team 6 operators to Radio Free Grenada with the purpose of using the radio station for psychological operations. The station was captured unopposed and the SEALs destroyed the radio transmitter. However, a counter-attack with cars and an armored personnel carrier forced the lightly-armed SEALs to cut a fence and retreat into the ocean as they received fire from the armored personnel carrier. The SEALs swam to the USS Guam (LPH-9). At least two SEALs were seriously wounded and bleeding, one with a shoulder injury and the other with a calf injury. Both SEALs were transferred by helicopter to the USS Independence (CV-62); one was carried in a stretcher by AO2 Wilczynski and others to the medical unit for treatment.\n\nOn 25 October, Delta Force and C Company of the 75th Ranger Regiment embarked in MH-60 and MH-6 Little Bird helicopters of Task Force 160 to capture Fort Rupert, where the leadership of the Revolutionary Council was believed to reside, and Richmond Hill Prison, where political prisoners were being held. The raid on Richmond Hill Prison lacked vital intelligence, including the fact that several anti-aircraft guns defended the prison, and that the prison was on a steep hill without room for a helicopter to land. Anti-aircraft fire wounded passengers and crew, and forced one MH-60 helicopter to crash land, causing another helicopter to land next to it to protect the survivors. One pilot was killed, and the Delta Force operators had to be relieved by a separate force of Rangers. The raid on Fort Rupert, however, was successful in capturing several leaders of the People's Revolutionary Government.\n\nThe last major special operation was a mission to rescue and evacuate Governor General Paul Scoon from his mansion in Saint George, Grenada. The mission departed late at 05:30 on 25 October from Barbados, resulting in the Grenadian forces being already aware of the U.S. invasion. They closely guarded Governor Scoon. Although the SEAL team's entry into the mansion went unopposed, a counterattack led by BTR-60 armored personnel carriers trapped the SEALs and the governor inside. AC-130 gunships, A-7 Corsair strike planes, and AH-1 Cobra attack helicopters were called in to support the besieged SEALs, but the SEALs remained trapped for the next 24 hours.\n\nAt 19:00 on 25 October, 250 U.S. Marines from G Company of the 22nd Marine Assault Unit equipped with amphibious assault vehicles and four M60 Patton tanks landed at Grand Mal Bay, and relieved the Navy SEALs the following morning, 26 October, allowing Governor Scoon, his wife and nine aides to be safely evacuated at 10:00 that day. The Marine tank crews continued advancing in the face of sporadic resistance, knocking out a BRDM-2 armored car. G Company subsequently defeated and overwhelmed the Grenadian defenders at Fort Frederick.\n\nAirstrikes were undertaken by U.S. Navy A-7 Corsairs as well as U.S. Marine AH-1 Cobra attack helicopters against Fort Rupert and Fort Frederick. An A-7 raid on Fort Frederick targeting anti-aircraft guns hit a nearby mental hospital, killing 18 civilians. Two Marine AH-1T Cobras and a UH-60 Blackhawk were shot down in a raid against Fort Frederick, resulting in five KIA.\n\nOn the second day, the U.S. ground commander, General Trobaugh of the 82nd Airborne Division, had two goals: securing the perimeter around Salines Airport and rescuing U.S. students held in Grand Anse. Because of the lack of undamaged helicopters after the losses on the first day, the Army had to delay pursuing the second objective until it made contact with Marine forces.\n\nEarly on the morning of the 26 October, a patrol from the 2nd Battalion of the 325th Infantry Regiment was ambushed by Cuban forces near the village of Calliste, suffering six wounded and two killed in the ensuing firefight, including the commander of Company B. Following that, U.S. Navy air strikes and an artillery bombardment by 105mm howitzers targeting the main Cuban encampment eventually led to their surrender at 08:30. US forces pushed on into the village of Frequente, where they discovered a Cuban weapons cache reportedly sufficient to equip six battalions. There, a reconnaissance platoon mounted on gun-jeeps was ambushed by Cuban forces, but return fire from the jeeps, and mortars from a nearby infantry unit inflicted four casualties on the ambushers with no U.S. losses. Cuban resistance largely ended after these engagements.\n\nOn the afternoon of 26 October, US Rangers of the 2nd Battalion of the Ranger Regiment mounted U.S. Marine CH-46 Sea Knight helicopters to launch an air assault on the Grand Anse campus. The campus guards offered light resistance before fleeing, wounding one Ranger, but one of the helicopters crashed on the approach after its blade hit a palm tree. The 233 U.S. students present were successfully evacuated by CH-53 Sea Stallion helicopters, but informed the U.S. commanders that there was a third campus with U.S. students at Prickly Bay. A squad of 11 Rangers was accidentally left behind; they departed on a rubber raft which was picked up by the USS Caron at 23:00.\n\nBy 27 October, organized resistance was rapidly diminishing, but the U.S. forces did not yet realize this. The Marine 22nd MAU and 8th Regiment continued advancing along the coast and capturing additional towns, meeting little resistance, although one patrol did encounter a single BTR-60 during the night and dispatched it with a M72 LAW. The 325th Infantry Regiment advanced toward Saint George, capturing Grand Anse (where they discovered 20 U.S. students they had missed the first day), the town of Ruth Howard, and the capital of Saint George, meeting only scattered resistance. An A-7 airstrike called by an air-naval gunfire liaison team accidentally hit the command post of the 2nd Brigade, wounding 17 troops, one of whom died of wounds.\n\nThe Army had reports that PRA forces were amassing at the Calivigny Barracks, only five kilometers from the Point Salines airfield. They organized an air assault by the 2nd Battalion of the 75th Ranger Regiment preceded by a preparatory bombardment by field howitzers (which mostly missed, their shells falling into ocean), A-7 Corsairs, AC-130s, and the USS Caron. However, when the Blackhawk helicopters began dropping off troops near the barracks, they approached too fast. One of them crash-landed and the two behind it collided with it, killing three and wounding four. The barracks were deserted.\n\nIn the following days, resistance ended entirely and the Army and Marines spread across the island, arresting PRA officials, seizing caches of weapons, and seeing to the repatriation of Cuban engineers.\n\nOn 1 November, two companies from the 22nd Marine Amphibious Unit made a combined sea and helicopter landing on the island of Carriacou 17 miles (27 km) northeast of Grenada. The nineteen Grenadian soldiers defending the island surrendered without a fight. This was the last military action of the campaign.\n\nOfficial U.S. sources state that some of their opponents were well prepared and well positioned and put up stubborn resistance, to the extent that the U.S. called in two battalions of reinforcements on the evening of 26 October. The total naval and air superiority of the coalition forces—including helicopter gunships and naval gunfire support as well as members of reserve Navy SEALs, had overwhelmed the defenders.\n\nNearly 8,000 soldiers, sailors, airmen, and Marines had participated in Operation Urgent Fury along with 353 Caribbean allies of the Caribbean Peace Forces. U.S. forces sustained 19 killed and 116 wounded; Cuban forces sustained 25 killed, 59 wounded, and 638 combatants captured. Grenadian forces suffered 45 dead and 358 wounded; at least 24 civilians were also killed, 18 of whom died in the accidental bombing of a Grenadian mental hospital. The U.S. also destroyed a significant amount of Grenada's military hardware, including six APCs and an armored car. A second armored car was impounded and later shipped back to Marine Corps Base Quantico for inspection.\n\nThe US government defended its invasion of Grenada as an action to protect American citizens, including medical students, living on the island. \"Action was necessary to resolve what Article 28 of...[the charter of the Organization of American States (O.A.S.)] refers to as a 'situation that might endanger the peace,'\" said US Deputy Secretary of State Kenneth W. Dam, adding that \"Both the O.A.S. Charter, in articles 22 and 28, and the U.N. Charter, in Article 52, recognize the competence of regional security bodies in ensuring regional peace and stability.\" Dam was referring the decision by the Organization of Eastern Caribbean States to approve the invasion. \n\nHowever, scholars of international law have concluded that the invasion constituted neither justifiable self-defense (because there was no credible imminent threat to the US), nor humanitarian intervention or rescue (because there was no credible immediate danger to US citizens), and, in any case, the US invasion far exceeded in the scope and magnitude of force used and in duration any action that would have been necessary to remove US citizens. The UN Charter prohibits the use of force by member states except in cases of self defense or when specifically authorized by the UN Security Council. The UN Security Council had not even considered the matter, let alone authorized invasion. Similarly, the United Nations General Assembly by a vote of 108 to 9 (with 27 abstentions) adopted General Assembly Resolution 38/7, which \"deeply deplores the armed intervention in Grenada, which constitutes a flagrant violation of international law.\" A similar resolution in the United Nations Security Council received widespread support but was vetoed by the United States.\n\nA month after the invasion, \"Time\" magazine described it as having \"broad popular support.\" A congressional study group concluded that the invasion had been justified, as most members felt that U.S. students at the university near a contested runway could have been taken hostage as U.S. diplomats in Iran had been four years previously. The group's report caused House Speaker Tip O'Neill to change his position on the issue from opposition to support.\n\nIn the evening of 25 October 1983 by telephone, on the newscast \"Nightline\", anchor Ted Koppel spoke to medical students on Grenada who stated that they were safe and did not feel their lives were in danger. The next evening, again by telephone, medical students told Koppel how grateful they were for the invasion and the Army Rangers, which probably saved their lives. State Department officials had assured the medical students that they would be able to complete their medical school education in the United States.\n\nOn 2 November 1983 by a vote of 108 in favour to 9 voting against (Antigua and Barbuda, Barbados, Dominica, El Salvador, Israel, Jamaica, Saint Lucia, Saint Vincent and the Grenadines, and the United States), with 27 abstentions, the United Nations General Assembly adopted General Assembly Resolution 38/7, which \"deeply deplores the armed intervention in Grenada, which constitutes a flagrant violation of international law and of the independence, sovereignty and territorial integrity of that State.\" It went on to deplore \"the death of innocent civilians\" the \"killing of the prime Minister and other prominent Grenadians\" and called for an \"immediate cessation of the armed intervention\" and demanded \"that free elections be organized\".\n\nThis was the first military rollback of a Communist nation. The Soviet Union said that Grenada had for a long time been the object of United States threats, that the invasion violated international law, and that no small nation not to the liking of the United States would find itself safe if the aggression against Grenada were not rebuffed. The governments of some countries stated that the United States intervention was a return to the era of barbarism. The governments of other countries said the United States by its invasion had violated several treaties and conventions to which it was a party.\n\nA similar resolution was discussed in the United Nations Security Council and although receiving widespread support it was ultimately vetoed by the United States.\n\nPresident of the United States Ronald Reagan, when asked if he was concerned by the lopsided 108–9 vote in the UN General Assembly, said, \"it didn't upset my breakfast at all.\"\n\nGrenada is part of the Commonwealth of Nations and, following the invasion, it requested help from other Commonwealth members. The intervention was opposed by Commonwealth members including the United Kingdom, Trinidad and Tobago, and Canada, among others. British Prime Minister Margaret Thatcher, a close ally of Reagan on other matters, personally opposed the U.S. invasion. Reagan told her it might happen; she did not know for sure it was coming until three hours before. At 12:30 on the morning of the invasion, Thatcher sent a message to Reagan:\n\nReagan told Thatcher before anyone else that the invasion would begin in a few hours, but ignored her complaints. She publicly supported the U.S. action. Reagan phoned to apologize for the miscommunication, and the long-term friendly relationship endured.\n\nFollowing the U.S. victory, the American and Caribbean governments quickly reaffirmed Scoon as Queen Elizabeth II's sole legitimate representative in Grenada—and hence, the only lawful authority on the island. In accordance with Commonwealth constitutional practice, Scoon assumed power as interim head of government, and formed an advisory council which named Nicholas Brathwaite as chairman pending new elections. Elections held in December 1984 were won by the Grenada National Party and a government was formed led by Prime Minister Herbert Blaize.\nU.S. forces remained in Grenada after combat operations finished in December as part of Operation Island Breeze. Elements remaining, including military police, special forces, and a specialized intelligence detachment, performed security missions and assisted members of the Caribbean Peacekeeping Force and the Royal Grenadian Police Force. \n\nThe Point Salines International Airport was renamed in honor of Prime Minister Maurice Bishop on 29 May 2009, the 65th anniversary of his birth. Hundreds of Grenadians turned out to commemorate the event. Tillman Thomas, Prime Minister of Grenada, gave the keynote speech and referred to the renaming as an act of the Grenadian people coming home to themselves. He also hoped that it would help bring closure to a chapter of denial in Grenada's history.\n\nThe invasion showed problems with the U.S. government's \"information apparatus,\" which \"Time\" described as still being in \"some disarray\" three weeks after the invasion. For example, the U.S. State Department falsely claimed that a mass grave had been discovered that held 100 bodies of islanders who had been killed by communist forces. Major General Norman Schwarzkopf, deputy commander of the invasion force, said that 160 Grenadian soldiers and 71 Cubans had been killed during the invasion; the Pentagon had given a much lower count of 59 Cuban and Grenadian deaths. Ronald H. Cole's report for the Joint Chiefs of Staff showed an even lower count.\n\nAlso of concern were the problems that the invasion showed with the military. There was a lack of intelligence about Grenada, which exacerbated the difficulties faced by the quickly assembled invasion force. For example, it was not known that the students were actually at two different campuses and there was a thirty-hour delay in reaching students at the second campus. Maps provided to soldiers on the ground were tourist maps on which military grid reference lines were drawn by hand to report locations of units and request artillery and aircraft fire support. They also did not show topography and were not marked with crucial positions. U.S. Navy ships providing naval gunfire and U.S. Marine, U.S. Air Force and Navy fighter/bomber support aircraft providing close air support mistakenly fired upon and killed U.S. ground forces due to differences in charts and location coordinates, data, and methods of calling for fire support. Communications between services were also noted as not being compatible and hindered the coordination of operations. The landing strip was drawn by hand on the map given to some members of the invasion force.\n\nConservative US leaders, and Ronald Reagan in particular, had long complained about the \"Vietnam Syndrome,\" the aversion on the part of the American people to U.S. military operations following the Vietnam War. The Reagan administration hoped that the perceived success of the invasion of Grenada would help dispel the Vietnam Syndrome so that the American public could be successfully galvanized to support new US military actions, with President Reagan after the invasion declaring: \"Our days of weakness are over. Our military forces are back on their feet and standing tall.\"\n\nA heavily fictionalized account of the invasion from a U.S. military perspective is shown in the 1986 Clint Eastwood motion picture \"Heartbreak Ridge\", in which Marines replaced the actual roles of U.S. Army units. Due to the movie's portrayal of several incompetent officers and NCOs, the Army withdrew its support of the movie.\n\nAnalysis by the U.S. Department of Defense showed a need for improved communications and coordination between the branches of the U.S. forces. U.S. Congressional investigations of many of the reported problems resulted in the most important legislative change affecting the U.S. military organization, doctrine, career progression, and operating procedures since the end of World War II: the Goldwater-Nichols Department of Defense Reorganization Act of 1986 (Pub. L.99–433).\n\nThe Goldwater-Nichols Act reworked the command structure of the United States military, thereby making the most sweeping changes to the United States Department of Defense since the department was established in the National Security Act of 1947. It increased the powers of the Chairman of the Joint Chiefs of Staff and created the concept of a truly unified joint U.S. forces (i.e., Army, Air Force, Marines, and Naval forces organized under one command). One of the first reorganizations resulting from both the Department of Defense analysis and the legislation was the formation of the U.S. Special Operations Command in 1987.\n\nOctober 25 is a national holiday in Grenada, called Thanksgiving Day, to commemorate the invasion.\n\nSt. George's University (SGU) built a monument on its True Blue Campus to memorialize the U.S. servicemen killed during the invasion, and marks the day with an annual memorial ceremony.\n\nIn 2008, the Government of Grenada announced a move to build a monument to honour the Cubans killed during the invasion. At the time of the announcement the Cuban and Grenadian governments are still seeking to identify a suitable site for the monument.\n\nVice Admiral Joseph Metcalf, III, COMSECONDFLT, became Commander, Joint Task Force 120 (CJTF 120), and commanded units from the Air Force, Army, Navy, Marine Corps, Coast Guard from the flag spaces aboard the MARG flagship, USS Guam. CJTF 120 was supported by Rear Admiral Richard E. Berry (COMCRUDESGRU Eight) (Commander Task Group 20), embarked on the aircraft carrier USS Independence. Commanding Officer, USS Guam (Task Force 124) was assigned the mission of seizing Pearls Airport and the port of Grenville, and of neutralizing any opposing forces in the area. Simultaneously, several SOF elements and Army Rangers (Task Force 123) would secure points at the southern end of the island, including the nearly completed jet airfield under construction near Point Salines. Elements of the 82d Airborne Division (Task Force 121) were designated as follow-on forces and were tasked to follow and assume the security at Point Salines, once seized by Task Force 123. Task Group 20.5, a carrier battle group built around , and Air Force elements would support the ground forces.\n\n\n\nTwo formations of U.S. warships took part in the invasion. carrier battle group; and Marine Amphibious Readiness Group, flagship , , , , and . Carrier Group Four was allocated the designation Task Group 20.5 for the operation.\nIn addition, the following ships supported naval operations:\n\n, , , , , , , , , , , , , , and .\n\nThe 1986 film \"Heartbreak Ridge\" by Clint Eastwood follows a group of Marines preparing for and participating in the invasion.\n\nThe 1990 film \"Die Hard 2\" mentioned Grenada when a unit of soldiers talked among themselves about the invasion.\n\nThe 1994 film \"Natural Born Killers\" mentioned Grenada when one of the main characters claimed he witnessed the invasion.\n\nIn the 2013 movie \"The Wolf of Wall Street\", the invasion of Grenada is used as a metaphor for a court case that is impossible to lose.\n\nIn 2012 and 2014 \"Saturday Night Live\" sketches where Bill Hader attends a puppet class and uses his puppet to tell his grim stories of the invasion.\n\nThe \"Yes Prime Minister\" episode \"A Victory for Democracy\" parodies the invasion using a fictitious British Commonwealth country called St George's Island located in the Indian Ocean and under threat of Communist invasion and American counter-invasion.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51778389", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51778389", "title": "Ursula Klein", "text": "Ursula Klein\n\nUrsula Klein (born 1952) is a German historian of science known for her cross-disciplinary work in history, philosophy and semiotics. Klein's concept of a paper tool has been widely applied, and is seen as marking a foundational change in scientific reasoning and practice in the history of chemistry in the early 19th century.\n\nKlein is a senior research scholar at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science in Berlin, Germany. In 2016 she received the HIST Award for outstanding achievements in the history of chemistry from the American Chemical Society.\n\nKlein completed her Higher State Exam in chemistry and biology in 1979. After studying chemistry and biology at the Free University of Berlin, she taught both subjects at the secondary level from 1980 to 1988.\n\nShe earned her Ph.D. in philosophy (\"summa cum laude\") from the University of Konstanz in 1993. Her work \"Verbindung und Affinität: Die Grundlegung der neuzeitlichen Chemie\" (1994) explored the 18th century meaning of \"chemical compound\". She received Habilitation in philosophy from the University of Konstanz in 2000.\n\nIn 1995 Klein became a Research Scholar at the Max Planck Institute for the History of Science. In 2005, she became a Senior research scholar at the Max Planck Institute. She became an unscheduled professor at the University of Konstanz in 2007, teaching only occasionally.\n\nKlein is an associate editor of \"Studies in History and Philosophy of Science \" and \"Historical Studies in the Natural Sciences\". She also serves on the editorial boards of \"Ambix\", \"Annals of Science\", and \"Hyle\".\n\nIn addition to being named a member of Deutsche Akademie der Naturforscher/Leopoldina as of 2008, Ursula Klein also serves on the Human Rights Committee (HRC) of the Leopoldina.\n\nOver her career Klein has mentored a number of historians whose work now engages with the broader historical ontology developed in her research on the experimental sciences. This group of scholars includes Carsten Reinhardt at Bielefeld University (former director of the Chemical Heritage Foundation in Philadelphia, USA), Emma Spary at Cambridge University, Maria Rentetzi at the National Technical University of Athens, José Ramón Bertomeu-Sánchez at the University of Valencia and Matthew Daniel Eddy at Durham University.\n\nKlein's interdisciplinary work draws upon history, philosophy of science, epistemology and semiotics. She is interested in the manipulation of sign systems on paper and their relationships with experimental and classificatory performance in the laboratory sciences.\n\nKlein introduced the concept of the paper tool through an examination of Berzelian formulas and their impact on inorganic and organic chemistry. Berzelian formulas were particularly important because they connected a world of signs with the world of laboratory experimentation. They enabled scientists to describe complex materials and reactions in organic chemistry in organized ways, similar to the ways in which chemists had identified and classified inorganic substances.\n\nBerzelian formulas offered a graphically suggestible representation of compositional structure that could be manipulated to investigate chemical reactions. In this way, formulas became a \"material resource\" for the creation and manipulation of chemical models. \nThese interpretive models of organic reactions were not based on a particular theory but could be applied to a variety of theories. They gave scientists a new tool for the examination of their ideas. Theories could be supported by the manipulation of Berzelian formulas as well as by experiments. In this way, paper tools acted as causal mechanisms and became the precursors of new theories.\n\nThe idea of paper tools has been adopted since by others and applied to constructs such as periodic tables, Feynman diagrams and the molecular architecture of Linus Pauling, among others.\nKlein examines paper tools, models and experiments in terms of their impact on scientific reasoning and practice in early-nineteenth-century organic chemistry in her book \"Experiments, models, paper tools\" (2003). She is credited with identifying the \"invisible turning point\" of a \"quiet revolution\" which shifted chemistry's foundation from natural history, medicine and pharmacy to carbon chemistry.\n\nMuch of Klein's work has focused on the ontology of materials, the notion of substance, and the development of the observational and experimental sciences. She is particularly interested in forms of knowledge, including bodily skills, technical competence, explicit knowledge, connoisseurship, and analytic and theoretical knowledge; and in methods of measurement, data collection, and classification.\n\nIn \"Materials in Eighteenth-Century Sciences\" (2007) Klein and Lefèvre discuss ways in which eighteenth century chemistry was grounded in a world of materials such as balsams, fats, salts, alloys, plant materials and blood, and practiced in a wide variety of settings including “apothecary's shops, foundries, assaying laboratories, arsenals, dye manufactories, distilleries, [and] coffee shops.” They then focus on a transitional period in eighteenth-century European chemistry, around 1830. At this time, methods of classification of substances changed, from focusing on experiential classification such as chemical composition, provenance, and properties of the substance, to more fundamental levels such as chemical structure and application. The book was praised for its breadth and \"well-written exposition of an important change in materials science\".\n\n\"Materials and expertise in early modern Europe\" (2010) presents a nuanced understanding of the relationships between academic science and industrial technology in the late eighteenth century, examining the work of both artisans and scholars.\n\nKlein's most recent publication, \"Humboldts Preußen. Wissenschaft und Technik im Aufbruch\" (2015), discusses Alexander von Humboldt and his contemporaries in the context of the early development of Prussian science and technology. Other figures discussed include Andreas Sigismund Marggraf, Franz Karl Achard, Martin Heinrich Klaproth and Carl Abraham Gerhard.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22801900", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22801900", "title": "Vernon, Oklahoma", "text": "Vernon, Oklahoma\n\nVernon is an unincorporated community in McIntosh County, Oklahoma, United States. Its elevation is 696 feet (212 m).\n\nVernon was established in 1911 as an all-black community, and is one of thirteen such that still exists. It was named for Bishop W. T. Vernon of the African Methodist Episcopal Church.\n\nThe Fort Smith and Western Railway, which opened in 1899 and closed in 1939, operated through the town. The FS&W served major coal mining operations in eastern Oklahoma at Coal Creek, Bokoshe and McCurtain. Other towns served included Crowder, Okemah, Boley, Prague, Vernon, Indianola and Meridian. A major portion of the road's freight traffic was metallurgical-grade coal from San Bois Coal Company mines near McCurtain. However, the railroad was ultimately abandoned after the Great Depression.\n\nA post office was established in 1920, in what was grocery and dry goods store; the building, known as The Rock Front, later became a tavern and pool hall and was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1984.\n\nThe community is also home to a cemetery.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4542739", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4542739", "title": "Vidar Leif Haanes", "text": "Vidar Leif Haanes\n\nVidar L. Haanes (born 27 April 1961 in Kristiansand) is a Norwegian professor of church history and rector of MF Norwegian School of Theology, Oslo.\n\nVidar L. Haanes was President of Universities Norway (UHR, the Rector's Conference) 2015-17, and member of the Council of European University Association. He is board member of Nordic University Cooperation (NUS) and of under the Nordic Council of Ministers. \nHaanes graduated from MF Norwegian School of Theology in 1985, was ordained 1986, Dr. Theol. 1998. He has written books and articles on theological education, the Protestant Reformation and Norwegian-American history. He has edited \"Luthersk Kirketidende\", \"Halvårsskrift for Praktisk Teologi\" and \"Nordic Journal of Religion and Society\". He has more than 400 books, articles and interviews registered in CRISTIN -Current Research Information System In Norway - \nHe is member of the Norwegian-American Historical Association and Agder Academy of Sciences and Letters, the General Synod and the Theological Commission in the Church of Norway, member of the Transatlantic Education Forum and board member of Kunnskap Oslo (Oslo Knowledge City) \n\nHe is a member of the Working Group on Higher Education & Research, European Federation of Education Employers, member of the Governing Board in OECD's Programme on Institutional Management in Higher Education (IMHE), member of the Council of Europe Advisory Committee on Higher Education for the Policy Steering Committee for Educational Policy and Practice (CDPPE).\n\n"}
{"id": "37762380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37762380", "title": "West Lothian Archaeological Trust", "text": "West Lothian Archaeological Trust\n\nThe West Lothian Archaeological Trust was formed on 19 April 2012 and registered as Scottish Charity No. SC043118 on 26 April 2012, having been known informally, since 2007, as West Lothian (Aerial) Archaeology. The Trust also has an interest in sites in England, especially Gloucestershire, where it is known as Stroud Aerial Archaeology.\n\nIn May 2013, the Trust was approved as an Associated Partner. of ArcheoLandscapes Europe (ArcLand), part of the European Union's Culture Programme, to represent its area of expertise. Also in May, the Trust launched The Scottish National Aerial Photography Scheme (SNAPS)\n\nIn 2016, the Trust became a member of the successor to ArcLand Europe, ArcLand International.\n\nThe aims of the Charitable Trust, as officially registered, are for 'the advancement of heritage and science' by\n\nWest Lothian Archaeology specialises in kite aerial photography (KAP) from the near ultra-violet through to the near and thermal infrared (Thermography). KAP is one of many techniques of aerial archaeology and was first used in an archaeological context by Henry Wellcome over 100 years ago. For a detailed consideration of kite aerial photography in the near-UV and near-IR, see the online publications of Geert Verhoeven which are listed in the external links below. On-site aerial photography complements the non-invasive methods of geophysical survey (archaeology) and images can be used to create virtual 3D models and animations. \n\nKite aerial photography is a simple, cheap, technique. A Camera, or phone, is suspended on a kite line about 20m from the kite, on either a Picavet suspension (see Kite aerial photography) or using a simple selfie stick. Details are given in the Scottish National Aerial Photography Scheme reference 3.\n\nThe work of the Trust is published on its Community and Heritage Website of Armadale, West Lothian and on its Kite Aerial Remote Sensing Facebook page\n\nThe Trust maintains a register of archaeological/heritage kite aerial photographers in the UK and Ireland. \n\n"}
{"id": "58413347", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58413347", "title": "Who Killed Homer?", "text": "Who Killed Homer?\n\n\"Who Killed Homer?: The Demise of Classical Education and the Recovery of Greek Wisdom,\" is a 1988 book by Classics scholars Victor Davis Hanson and John Heath.\n\nReviewing \"Who Killed Homer?\" for Foreign Affairs, Francis Fukuyama described it as \"ostensibly\" focused on the decline of classical studies, but \"really about the loss of a common, humanistic core in contemporary education and culture.\"\n\n\"Who Killed Homer?,\" was a polemic book criticizing classics scholars including Nancy Sorkin Rabinowitz, Judith Hallett, and Amy Richlin, who, in the authors' opinion, misinterpreted and debased classical texts in the service of critical theory, feminism, identity politics and other political causes.\n"}
{"id": "17734198", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17734198", "title": "Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society", "text": "Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society\n\nThe Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society (YAHS), formerly known as the Yorkshire Archaeological Society, is a learned society and registered charity, founded in 1863. It is dedicated to the study of the archaeology, history and people of the three Ridings of the historic county of Yorkshire. It publishes an annual journal, the \"Yorkshire Archaeological Journal\"; and, particularly through its Record Series, it also functions as a text publication society. Its headquarters are in Leeds.\n\nThe Society has seven special interest groups, such as the Family History or the Roman Antiquities sections. These may be joined without full membership of the main YAHS.\n\nThe Society was founded in 1863 as the Huddersfield Archaeological and Topographical Association. The initial purpose was to facilitate renewed excavations at Slack Roman fort, and later to promote interest in the history and archaeology of the Huddersfield area. The principal instigator was George Lloyd (1820–1885). In 1870 the society expanded its interests to cover the whole of Yorkshire, and changed its name accordingly to the Yorkshire Archaeological Society. In 1896 it moved its headquarters from Huddersfield to Leeds. In 2015 it changed its name again to the Yorkshire Archaeological and Historical Society.\n\nFrom 1968 the Society had its headquarters at \"Claremont\", a large house built in the 1770s, close to the main campus of the University of Leeds. Negotiations began to sell \"Claremont\" in 2016, with the aim of opening smaller office accommodation in the same vicinity.\n\nThe Prehistory Section has an active programme and a regular publication for section members called \"The Bulletin\". The aim is to bring together those with an interest in the prehistoric archaeology of the region.\n\nThe Roman Antiquities Section meets for lectures about five times a year. It has an annual \"Bulletin\" for section members and occasional monographs.\n\nThe Medieval Section meets about three times a year at locations suited to the subject matter of the day schools. It publishes \"Medieval Yorkshire\", an annual publication free to section members.\n\nThe Industrial History Section has a very active programme of lectures, visits and informal social events. It publishes three newsletters a year for section members.\n\nThe Family History Section has monthly lectures at Claremont and a Workshop for section members every Tuesday afternoon. It publishes a quarterly newsletter, \"The Yorkshire Family Historian\".\n\nThe Society also has two publishing only sections :\n\nThe Society possesses a library of some 45,000 works, which has been described as \"probably the largest single resource for research on Yorkshire's past outside the British Library\"; and also an extensive collection of manuscripts, including many papers of early antiquarians. These collections were formerly held at its headquarters, \"Claremont\"; but in 2015, in anticipation the sale of the building, were transferred to the custody of the Brotherton Library of the University of Leeds, where they are now accessible through the Library's Special Collections section.\n\n\n"}
