{"id": "4721257", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4721257", "title": "Abdullah bin Faisal Al Saud", "text": "Abdullah bin Faisal Al Saud\n\nAbdullah bin Faisal Al Saud (18 June 1923 – 8 May 2007) was a Saudi businessman and a senior member of House of Saud. He held several cabinet posts in the government of Saudi Arabia in the 1950s.\n\nPrince Abdullah was born in Riyadh in 1923. He was the eldest son of King Faisal. His mother was Sultana Al Sudairi, daughter of Ahmed bin Muhammad Al Sudairi. Abdullah bin Faisal's mother and the mother of the Sudairi Seven, Hussa bint Ahmed Al Sudairi, were sisters. It is believed that Prince Abdullah was the second grandson of King Abdulaziz after Faisal bin Turki I, who was born in 1918. The marriage of Prince Faisal and Sultana bint Ahmed was prearranged while Prince Faisal was travelling abroad. They never saw each other until the marriage. She also bore him three daughters. They later divorced.\n\nAbdullah bin Faisal completed his education in Mecca in 1939. He was older than the majority of King Abdulaziz's children i.e. his uncles and aunts.\n\nAbdullah bin Faisal assumed a number of government positions. He started his political career in 1945 when he disputed his half-uncle Mansour's appointment as acting viceroy of Hijaz and actually assumed the office one year later.\n\nHe served as the minister of health from 1949 to 1950. Then, he was appointed minister of interior in 1951, being the first interior minister of the Kingdom. He served in this post during the reign of King Abdulaziz and also, of King Saud. His term lasted until 1959 when he resigned. His appointment as minister of health and of interior was a move to make him equal in status to then-minister of defense Prince Mishaal.\n\nAbdullah bin Faisal later left his government job to devote his time to business and cultural activities. He was the founder of Al Faisaliah Group, which was established in Jeddah in 1970. He also founded the SIGMA (Saudi Investment Group and Marketing) company in 1979. The chairman and CEO of the company is his son, Prince Saud.\n\nAbdullah bin Faisal received a number of international honors including an honorary doctorate degree in humanities. He was rewarded with the State Acknowledgement Award for Literature in 1984. A composer of both classical and colloquial poetry, his works include the collection The Inspiration of Deprivation (Min Wahye al Hirman), 1980. A number of singers have sung his poems, including the famous Egyptian singer, Um Kulthoum.\n\nHe was formerly chairman of Al-Ahli Club.\n\nHis publications include:\n\nPrince Abdullah's poems were put into music and sung by the Egyptian singer Umm Khalthoum.\n\nPrince Abdullah died on 8 May 2007. Funeral prayers were performed at the Masjid al Haram in Mecca and attended by late Crown Prince Sultan bin Abdulaziz, his younger brothers late Prince Saud and Prince Khaled as well as other members of the royal family. Prince Abdullah was buried in the Al Adl cemetery in Mecca.\n"}
{"id": "24124547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24124547", "title": "Accounting entity", "text": "Accounting entity\n\nAn Accounting Entity is simply an Entity for which accounting records are to be kept.\n\nThe main requirements for something to be considered an \"accounting entity\" are:\n\nExamples of accounting entities include corporations, clubs, trusts, partnerships and individuals.\n"}
{"id": "961926", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=961926", "title": "Biddle family", "text": "Biddle family\n\nThe Biddle family of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania was descended from English immigrants William Biddle (1630–1712) and Sarah Kempe (1634–1709), who arrived in the Province of New Jersey in 1681. Quakers, they had emigrated from England in part to escape religious persecution. Having acquired extensive rights to more than of lands in West Jersey, they settled first at Burlington, a city which developed along the east side of the Delaware River.\n\nWilliam Biddle, 3rd (1698–1756), and John Biddle (1707–1789), two third-generation brothers, moved from Mount Hope (1684) near Bordentown, also on the east side of the Delaware, to Philadelphia, Pennsylvania in the 1720s and 1730s. They constituted the first generation of the Philadelphia Biddle family. The family became prominent in business, political and cultural affairs of the city.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50913636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50913636", "title": "Buyout clause", "text": "Buyout clause\n\nA buyout clause or release clause refers to a clause in a contract that imposes an obligation on another organisation wishing to acquire the services of the employee under contract to pay the (usually substantial) fee of the clause to the organisation which issued the contract and 'owns' the employee.\n\nIt is most commonly used in reference to sports teams, where a transfer fee is usually paid for a player under contract; however, the current owning club is not obliged to sell their player, and if an agreement on a suitable fee cannot be reached, the buying club can instead resort to paying the player's buyout fee – should their contract have such a clause – which the owning club cannot block. Usually this is a higher amount than the player's expected market value, although on occasion a player at a smaller club will sign a contract but insist on a low buyout fee to attract bigger clubs if their performances generate interest.\n\nThe aim of this clause is twofold; firstly with its high amount, competing teams are discouraged from attempting to acquire the player if the current club shows no signs of selling them, and secondly it raises any hint to the players not to go through with their contractual commitment.\n\nIn Spain, buyout clauses have been mandatory in football contracts since 1985. If wishing to rescind their contract, the players are required to pay the buyout fee to their current club personally (via the league body), which would be advanced to them by the club signing them; however this advance of funds was originally deemed by the Spanish government to be taxable income, requiring the buying club to pay income tax on top of the fee itself, with the prohibitively high costs involved in this dual transaction discouraging clubs from making such deals. In October 2016 the laws were changed, with the buyout fee advances to the players no longer subject to tax, meaning only the fee itself had to be paid.\n\nAs of November 2017, the five largest buyout clauses were those of association football players Cristiano Ronaldo and player Karim Benzema of Real Madrid (€1 billion each) – Ronaldo subsequently moved to Juventus (a deal not involving the buyout fee); Isco and Marco Asensio (also Real Madrid, €700 million each), and that of FC Barcelona player Lionel Messi (also €700 million).\n\nOn 3 August 2017, Paris Saint-Germain activated the buyout clause of Brazilian footballer Neymar from FC Barcelona, which was set at €222 million, making him the most expensive football player in history, ahead of the previous record set by Paul Pogba (€105 million) in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "56254371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56254371", "title": "CA Foundation Course", "text": "CA Foundation Course\n\nCA Foundation is the new entrance level for the Chartered Accountancy course in India. Earlier it was known as Common Proficiency Test.\n\nThe candidate can register for the CA Foundation after appearing in 12th board examinations and take the exam after qualifying the 12th examinations.\n\nCA Foundation is partially subjective and partially objective test consisting of 400 marks. The eight subjects are:\nThe above two papers are subjective while the later two are objective. O\n\nExams for the CA Foundation are held in May and November.\n\nAdmit cards are issued by the ICAI 21 days before exam.\n\nCA Foundation is exempt for the graduates, post-graduates and the students having equivalent degrees. Commerce graduated with 55% and other graduated with 60% marks can take direct admission for the CA Intermediate.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20216233", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20216233", "title": "Catherine DeVrye", "text": "Catherine DeVrye\n\nCatherine DeVrye is a Canadian born Australian author of 8 best selling non fiction books and a former Australian Executive Woman of the Year winner.\n\nIn addition to her writing, the former IBM executive also speaks internationally on customer service, managing change & turning obstacles to opportunities to follow your dream.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9642776", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9642776", "title": "Chambers Street (Manhattan)", "text": "Chambers Street (Manhattan)\n\nChambers Street is a two-way street in the New York City borough of Manhattan.\n\nIt runs from River Terrace, Battery Park City, in the west, past PS 234 (the Independence School) and Stuyvesant High School to 1 Centre Street, the Manhattan Municipal Building, to the east. In the early 20th century the street continued through that building's archway. Between Broadway and Centre Street, Chambers Street forms the northern boundary of the grounds surrounding New York City Hall and the Tweed Courthouse. Opposite the Tweed Courthouse sits the Surrogate's Courthouse for Manhattan. 280 Broadway the Marble Palace, lies west of there, on the north side of Chambers. Beginning in 2010, Chambers Street was fully reconstructed.\n\nChambers Street is named for attorney John Chambers (1710–1764), an important parishioner at Trinity Church in Manhattan, where he was vestryman (1726–1757) and warden (1757–1765) of the church for 38 years, son of William Chambers, and husband of Anne Van Cortlandt. Chambers's nephew was John Jay. John Murray, Chambers' law partner, has nearby Murray Street named after him.\n\nThe New York City Subway has stations at three places on Chambers Street:\n\n\n\nNotes\n\n"}
{"id": "16892679", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16892679", "title": "Chen Yu-hui", "text": "Chen Yu-hui\n\nYu-hwei Chen, also known as Zheng Feng, is a wuxia novelist.\n\nBorn in 1973 in Taipei, Taiwan to Chen Li-an, a former president of Control Yuan of Republic of China and Cecilia Tsao, the founder of Cecilia Arts, Chen is the fourth child and the only daughter of a prominent clan. Her great grandfather Tan Yankai is a former president of Republic of China and her grandfather Chen Tsyr-shiou is a former vice president of Republic of China.\n\nChen attended Fu-Hsing Private School and Affiliated Senior High School of National Taiwan Normal University in Taipei for primary and secondary education. Encouraged by her father, she began reading wuxia novels by Louis Cha since primary school and was fascinated with his works, which deeply influenced her future writing career. During her childhood and teenage years, Chen was also obsessed with classic Chinese literature, and this equipped her with eloquent narrative skills in Old Chinese.\n\nChen was enrolled in Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1991 and earned a bachelor's degree from Sloan Business School in 1995. After graduation, she moved to Hong Kong and worked for JP Morgan Chase as an investment banker. She spent one year in London. Her experience in London inspired her imagination and she set pen on the draft of her first wuxia novel.\n\nShe returned to Hong Kong and resumed her investment banking career with ABN AMRO, where she retired as director in 2009. Her first novel was published in 2006 and won the Best Novel Award in a wuxia novel competition in Greater China. After that, she published another four novels.\n\nShe became a professional novelist in 2009 and began serving on the board of Independent Schools Foundation Academy.\n"}
{"id": "45232991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45232991", "title": "David J. Hickson", "text": "David J. Hickson\n\nDavid John Hickson (20 April 1931 – 22 June 2016) was a British organizational theorist and Emeritus Professor of International Management and Organization at the Bradford University School of Management, known for his work in the field of organisational development (OD).\n\nHickson obtained his MA at the University of Manchester Institute of Science and Technology, after he had started working. There he was spotted by the academic professor Reg Revans, who recognized his potential as researcher. Later in his career he received an Honorary Ph.D. from the University of Umea in Sweden.\n\nIn the 1950s Hickson had started his career in financial administration, and had become Assistant Secretary of the Bristol Stock Exchange. After graduation in the late 1950s he became research assistant at the then Birmingham College of Advanced Technology, later the Aston University. in the 1960s he joined the Aston Group, a group of organizational researchers under the leadership of Derek S. Pugh. In corporation with Canadian scientists they developed the contingency approach.\n\nIn the 1970s Hickson was co-founder of the European Group for Organizational Studies (EGOS). He became Professor of International Management and Organization at Bradford School of Management, England. He was Visiting professor on Canada, the United States, and the Netherlands. And he was founding Editor-in-Chief of \"Organization Studies,\" an international research journal.\n\nHickson's research interests \"are how societal culture affects managerial decision making in different nations and what influences the success of major decisions. His previous research has included processes of managerial decision making, power in organizations, and bureaucratization.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5957736", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5957736", "title": "Embassy Theatre (Cumberland, Maryland)", "text": "Embassy Theatre (Cumberland, Maryland)\n\nThe Embassy Theatre is a performance theater located in the downtown mall of Cumberland, Maryland at 49 Baltimore St. The theater mounts live performances of classic theatre fare such as Kurt Weill's \"Threepenny Opera\" and Kander and Ebb's \"Cabaret,\" as well as lesser-known work such as \"The Mystery of Irma Vep\" and \"The Lady In Question,\" original works and local historical plays. Other entertainment presented at the theatre includes movies and musical concerts. Originally opened as a movie theater in 1931, it then became a curtain and drapery store, and finally was remodeled to a live performance theater and allied arts venue. Until December 2014, the theatre was operated as the New Embassy Theatre. Recently remodeled, it now operates as the Embassy Theatre. \n\n"}
{"id": "2946490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2946490", "title": "Enforcement of foreign judgments", "text": "Enforcement of foreign judgments\n\nIn law, the enforcement of foreign judgments is the recognition and enforcement in one jurisdiction of judgments rendered in another (\"foreign\") jurisdiction. Foreign judgments may be recognized based on bilateral or multilateral treaties or understandings, or unilaterally without an express international agreement.\n\nThe \"recognition\" of a foreign judgment occurs when the court of one country or jurisdiction accepts a judicial decision made by the courts of another \"foreign\" country or jurisdiction, and issues a judgment in substantially identical terms without rehearing the substance of the original lawsuit.\n\nIn English law, there is a clear distinction between Recognition of foreign judgments, and enforcement of foreign judgments. Recognition means treating the claim as having been determined in favour of one of the litigating parties. This is an acknowledgment of foreign competence and of the settling of a dispute, known as res judicata. Enforcement, by contrast, is the implementation of the judgment.\n\nIn American legal terminology, a \"foreign\" judgment means a judgment from another state in the United States or from a foreign country. To differentiate between the two, more precise terminology used is \"foreign-country judgment\" (for judgments from another country) and \"foreign sister-state judgment\" (from a different state within the United States).\n\nOnce a foreign judgment is recognized, the party who was successful in the original case can then seek its \"enforcement\" in the recognizing country. If the foreign judgment is a money judgment and the debtor has assets in the recognizing jurisdiction, the judgment creditor has access to all the enforcement remedies as if the case had originated in the recognizing country, e.g. garnishment, judicial sale, etc. If some other form of judgment was obtained, e.g. affecting status, granting injunctive relief, etc., the recognizing court will make whatever orders are appropriate to make the original judgment effective.\n\nForeign judgments may be recognized either unilaterally or based on principles of comity, i.e. mutual deference between courts in different countries. In English courts, the bases of the enforcement of foreign judgments are not comity, but the doctrine of obligation.\n\nBetween two different States in the United States, enforcement is generally required under the \"Full Faith and Credit Clause\" (Article IV, Section 1) of the U.S. Constitution, which compels a State to give another State's Judgment an effect as if it were local. This usually requires some sort of an abbreviated application on notice, or docketing. Between one State in the United States, and a foreign country, Canada, for example, the prevailing concept is comity. The Court in the United States, in most cases, will unilaterally enforce the foreign judgment, without proof of diplomatic reciprocity, either under judge-made law or under specific statutes.\n\nRecognition will be generally denied if the judgment is substantively incompatible with basic legal principles in the recognizing country. For example, U.S. courts, in accordance with the Securing the Protection of our Enduring and Established Constitutional Heritage Act, are prohibited from recognizing or enforcing foreign libel judgments against any United States person unless the foreign country in which the judgement was made protects freedom of speech to at least the same degree as the United States and the foreign court's conduct of the case in which the judgement was reached respected the due process guarantees of the U.S. Constitution to the same extent as a U.S. court would've.\n\nIf the country that issued the judgment and the country where recognition is sought are not parties to the Hague Convention on Foreign Judgments in Civil and Commercial Matters (as of December 2017, only ratified by Albania, Cyprus, Kuwait, the Netherlands and Portugal ), the Brussels regime (all European Union countries, as well as Iceland, Norway and Switzerland) or a similar treaty or convention providing for the routine of registration and enforcement between states, the courts of most states will accept jurisdiction to hear cases for the recognition and enforcement of judgments awarded by the courts of another state if the defendant or relevant assets are physically located within their territorial boundaries. Whether recognition will be given is determined by the lex fori, i.e. the domestic law of the court where recognition is sought, and the principles of comity. The following issues are considered:\nThere is a general reluctance to enforce foreign judgments which involve multiple or punitive damages. In this context, it is noted that the U.S. is not a signatory to any treaty or convention and there are no proposals for this position to change. When it comes to seeking the enforcement of U.S. judgments in foreign courts, many states are uncomfortable with the amount of money damages awarded by U.S. courts which consistently exceed the compensation available in those states. Further, the fact that the U.S. courts sometimes claim extraterritorial jurisdiction offends other states' conceptions of sovereignty. Consequently, it can be difficult to persuade some courts to enforce some U.S. judgments. The Hague choice of court convention provides for the recognition of judgement given by the court chosen by the parties in civil and commercial cases in all other parties to the convention. The convention has as of 2013 not entered into force. Regarding maintenance obligations, the Hague Maintenance Convention (in force between Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina and Norway), provides for recognition of all kinds of maintenance related judgements (including child support).\n\nIf the time to appeal in the court of origin has lapsed, and the judgment has become final, the holder of a foreign judgment, decree or order may file suit before a competent court in the U.S. which will determine whether to give effect to the foreign judgment. A local version of the Uniform Foreign Money Judgments Recognition Act applies in most states, for example in California. 13 U.L.A. 149 (1986).\n\nA judgment rendered in a \"sister\" state or a territory of the U.S. is also referred to as a \"foreign judgment.\" 47 states, the District of Columbia, Northern Mariana Islands and the Virgin Islands have adopted the Uniform Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Act, 13 U.L.A. 261 (1986), which requires the states and the territories to give effect to the judgments of other states and territories, if an exemplified copy of the foreign judgment is registered with the clerk of a court of competent jurisdiction along with an affidavit stating certain things. The only U.S. states which have not adopted the Uniform Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Act are California, Massachusetts and Vermont. Legislation was introduced in Massachusetts in 2012 (Bill H.4268) to adopt the Uniform Enforcement of Foreign Judgments Act.\n\nNew York State and Connecticut are two of a small minority of U.S. jurisdictions that does not simply allow a judgment creditor to file a foreign judgment from a sister state if the judgment was obtained by default (meaning the other side never showed up for to contest its entry in the other state by, for example, defending himself at trial) or the judgment was obtained by confession (meaning the other side signed paperwork allowing a judgment to be entered against him). Instead, a party wishing to domesticate the foreign default judgment or foreign judgment obtained by confession must bring another action in New York State \"on the judgment\" where the relief sought is to have the foreign judgment domesticated in New York State. Moreover, a quicker \"motion-action\" procedure is available in New York where the owner of the foreign default judgment/judgment by confession files a summons and notice of motion for summary judgment in lieu of complaint.\n\nWhen seeking to enforce a judgment in or from a state that has not adopted the Uniform Act, the holder of the judgment files a suit known as a \"domestication\" action. Since the full faith and credit clause of the U.S. constitution requires that states honor the judgments of other states, the domestication of a judgment from another state is generally a formality, even in the absence of the expedited procedure under the UEFJA.\n\nTo solve the problem of libel tourism, the SPEECH Act makes foreign libel judgments unenforceable in U.S. courts, unless those judgments are compliant with the U.S. First Amendment. The act was passed by the 111th United States Congress and signed into law by President Barack Obama.\n\nA state may not enforce a foreign-country judgment in the following cases:\nIn England, three avenues of enforcement methods and recognition rules exist:\nJudgments operating in personam, such as those not relating to in rem property rights, are only recognised as effective against particular parties, the material question becomes whether the judgment debtor is bound to abide to the judgment. It is recognised as binding on and against the party against whom it was given only if it was delivered by a court which, according to English law, was competent to deliver a judgment. Jurisdictional, with regard to the foreign court rules) rules are irrelevant. It is thus crucial for the court to determine whether the adjudicating court's own standards for recognition are satisfied by the facts, the adjudicating court must be satisfied not that the foreign court bears jurisdiction under its own rules, but whether, in the Eyes of the English court that the foreign court has a 'international jurisdiction' competence. Once the court has been satisfied that it is right to recognise a foreign judgment as settled, known as \"Res Judicata\", the party may then seek to enforce the foreign judgment. In order for a judgment to be considered \"Res Judicata\", it must be \"Final and conclusive in the court which pronounced it\".\n\nThere are two purposes for effecting recognition of a foreign judgment. Firstly, if a party defeats a foreign case, he may seek recognition of that decision to estopp a party from bringing another action against him in England. By contrast, should a party succeed in a foreign action, he may seek to enforce the action in England. The judgment creditor need not have to succeed at every point within the foreign action. It had previously been the case that if the foreign claimant had been partially successful, he was entitled to sue on the cause in action again within England. Section 34 of the Civil Jurisdiction Judgment Act 1982 was subsequently passed by parliament to remove the right to sue a second time.\n\nA court's judgment is an exercise of sovereign power, it is this principle that underpins the English position that no foreign judgment will have an effect in England and, conversely, that the English courts cannot expect an English judgment to have any effect abroad. Exceptions to the limitation on foreign judgments are set out through parliament. The Brussels Recast Regulation operates as the primary procedural scheme relating to foreign judgments, their recognition and enforcement. Recognition is automatic between member states, barring exceptions set out in Chapter III of the regulation. This is consistent with the EU principles of a single economic market where courts and government departments can be trusted to get things right. Under the Common law, recognition is limited to a certain set of criteria.\n\nAs adjudication is considered a sovereign act, the common law has developed the concept of comity to determine circumstances where recognition and enforcement acknowledged and respected the foreign sovereign act sufficiently to enforce it domestically. This was pioneered in Hilton v Guyot. A judgment may therefore be reduced to four components \n\nReciprocity is not the central tenant of recognition, but rather it is suggested that it is the doctrine of obligation. This sits at the apex of an interplay between sovereignty, comity, consent, and reciprocity. Accepting reciprocity would allow foreign judgments to shape the English common law. By contrast, Adams v Cape Industries plc specifically rejected comity as the basis for recognition or non-recognition of judgments because it was insufficiently hard-edged for the demands. However, comity remains valuable for examining the doctrine of recognition insofar as it underpins the principle that a domestic court cannot examine the substantive validity of the foreign court's action - as it cannot claim to hold more competence - nor does it pretend that it must enforce the foreign court's decision.\n\nComity for the sovereignty of courts is insufficient for enforcing recognition because does not consistently determine a stringent enough rule for when sovereignty is to be accepted as a proper application onto the parties and when it is not recognised on the grounds that the parties ought not to be bound. The Canadian approach, set forth in Beals v Saldanha was one of a more open enforcement of foreign judgments by enforcing the foreign judgment if the foreign jurisdiction can be determined (by the Canadian Court) as being the natural forum for the resolution of the dispute; or that there was a real and substantial connection between the foreign jurisdiction and the dispute. This is a substantial deviation from the English approach, and one that, in the English context, would bring forth more problems than it would solve. By contrast, the doctrine of obligation, engaged between the two adjudicating parties, underpins the English approach. It focuses on the action of the defendant whereas the Canadian approach does not focus on the defendant's action.\n\nThe first of two broad bases for recognition within the Common law rules in England & Wales is set forth in Adams v Cape Industries plc. Where a party was present within the territory of the adjudicating court when proceedings instituted, the court will bind the party to the decision of the court so long as the adjudications are recognised as conclusive. The question of whether the judgment will be \"enforced\" will be a separate matter. Secondly, if a party is shown to have agreed with his opponent, by word or action, to abide by the judgment of the court, private agreement is sufficient for recognising the substance of the judgment as res judicata. Only English judgments are recognised in England, if the foreign court is competent, under English rules, and there is no defence to recognition, then the foreign judgment will be recognised and enforced. If a wants to use the foreign judgment as a sword, then he will need to bring new proceedings in English common law using the foreign judgment as evidence to his claim.\n\nThe rules cannot and do not distinguish foreign courts with a reputation for excellence and foreign courts with less rigorous standards. Under the common law rules, the English court will not recognise judgments unless they are held to be final in their court of origin. Meaning that the matter cannot be reopened by the court which made the ruling. The matter may be subject to an ordinary appeal, but that will not be determined as a court reopening a matter. An interlocutory matter may be recognised if it represents the final word of the court on the point in issue. A difficulty arises in relation to default judgments which will often be liable to re-opening in the court in which they were entered.\n\nEnglish courts form the basis of recognition on:\nNationality is no longer credible reasoning for recognition of foreign judgments.\n\nPresent when proceedings were begun\nThe first category of recognition is where the defendant was present when proceedings began. Two primary definitions exist, one relating to individuals, the second relates to corporations. Academic criticism has extended from the use of presence rather than residence, however, residence on the date of when proceedings were begun creates uncertainty. It is difficult to determine whether a party who spends two years aboard is resident there. However, authority suggests that residence without presence at the material time would still suffice if the relevant time was at the service of process representing the start of legal proceedings. The leading authority within is Adams v Cape Industries, setting out that presence, as distinct from residence is necessary.\n\nWith regard to individuals, the court has held that it will mean that the defendant must be within the jurisdiction of a court when the proceedings were instituted, meaning service or notice that proceedings had begun. Presence at the time of the trial is not used as a defendant could simply leave the jurisdiciton upon becoming aware. By contrast, in \"Adams v Cape\" the question of whether a company was present was to analogise from the reasoning of human beings. The court must be either able to determine presence as (a) servants of the corporation carrying on its business from a fixed place maintained by the corporation or (b) a representative of the corporation carrying on the business of the corporate from a fixed place. Either of these criteria will determine the company is presence. This is designed to prevent the argument that the company is present where-ever a company officer or director is present. If the representative/servant have the power to bind the corporation into a contract without seeking approval from other entities abroad, presence will be determined. The difficulty of determining presence of a company derives primarily because it is difficult to apply to the margins. Travelling salesman certainly operate in jurisdictions on behalf of companies, enjoying benefit of economic markets and under the current criteria would not be considered \"present\". The U.S. model operates on the assumption that the conclusion of any contract will bind the corporation in that jurisdiction. Further, the common law's ignorance as to the content of the judgment itself. This was seen notably in \"Adams v Cape\" itself. The effect of corporate presence is that any claim relating whatsoever can be brought against the corporation, regardless of the work the corporation conducts within the jurisdiction.\n\nNot present but agreed to accept the adjudication of the foreign court\nThe second criteria where a party may be subject to a foreign judgment recognised in England is where the defendant has accepted the foreign court. This is consistent with the English court's approach to a choice of jurisdiction clause, a judgment will be denied recognition at common law if the adjudicating court failed to give effect to a choice of court clause or arbitration agreement. A party will not sufficiently submit to a jurisdiction by simply agreed to a contract in a foreign jurisdiction. If, for example parties 'A' and 'B' agreed to be bound to a contract which included the terms \"this contract shall be governed by the law of England & Wales and the English courts shall have exclusive jurisdiction to decide matters arising from the contract\" both parties will be unable to commence proceedings in New York, even if the New York court considers the exclusive jurisdiction clause to be invalid. If 'A' brings proceedings, the English court will not recognise the judgment of a New York court regardless of whether 'B' attends the foreign jurisdiction to contest the jurisdiction of the New York court. Section 33 of the Civil Jurisdiction and Judgments Act 1982 altered the previous common law approach, It provided a defence to attending a foreign court for the purposes of challenging the jurisdiction of the court. There is considerable academic debate as to whether, after the foreign court determines jurisdiction, party 'B' can continue to forward a defence so long as he contests jurisdiction at every opportunity. In doing so, the defendant may well have the opportunity to enjoy two attempts at defending the action, first seeking to defend the action abroad and secondly operating with the confidence that they will be protected by Section 33 of the 1982 Act.\n\nShould a defendant seek to defend again recognition of a foreign judgment, several defences exist which might prevent the English court from recognising the action. The primary gateway for defending recognition in the English courts is that of Fraud, which is said to unravels all foreign judgments. A judgment will be denied recognition as res judicata and there can therefore be no question of its enforcement if any of the defences allowed by English international private law are made out. The English court does not review the merits of the foreign judgment. One cannot claim that the foreign court failed to consider facts. It is also not possible to argue that the foreign court reached the wrong decision on the facts. The court is further not concerned with the competence of the issuing court. Six possible defences exist:\n\nThe only foreign judgment which can be enforced in England is a money judgment for which a party will sue on the debt. Should a foreign court apply specific performance, a party may sue in England on the same cause of action as the foreign judgment and use the foreign judgment on the merits to seek a similar order from the English courts. It is the obligation, not the judgment that is enforced. Only final judgments for fixed sums of money can be enforced. A foreign country court has jurisdiction to give a judgment in personam in four case. \"Murthy v Sivajothi\" [1993] 1 WLR 467 held the recognition of resjudicata.\nTwo parliamentary acts enforce jurisdictional rules. In particular, these apply to Commonwealth matters and operate close to the current common law. The first is the Administration of Justice Act 1920 where Part II applies colonial jurisdictions such as New Zealand, Nigeria, and Singapore. If the judgment is still subject to an appeal in the ordinary, it cannot be registered. The second parliamentary statute which allows for enforcement and recognition is the Foreign Judgments (Reciprocal Enforcement Act) 1933, which enforces civil and commercial matters from designated courts in countries with bilateral agreements, such as Canada. Instead of it being necessary to commence original proceedings by service, the statutes allow the judgement creditor, the party seeking to enforce a foreign jurisdiction, to merely register the judgment for direct enforcement. This produces the same effect as if the foreign action had been an English judgment. Respondents may apply to set aside the registration as specified by the statutory instruments.\n\nSucceeding the Brussels I Regulation, the Recast regulation allocates jurisdiction between member states using Chapters I and II of the regime. Chapter III of the Recast regulation implements articles relating to the automatic recognition and enforcement of Member State judgments.\n\nExcept in very limited circumstances, it is not possible to claim that the court should not have adjudicated because it misinterpreted the rules on jurisdiction within Brussels. This is because jurisdiction rules are the same in all member states under the regulation. If the defendant thought that the foreign court was wrong, it should have and could have, challenged jurisdiction at the first instance.\n\nArbitration awards enjoy the protection of special treaties. The U.S. is a signatory to international conventions regulating the enforcement of arbitration awards, including the Convention on the Recognition and Enforcement of Foreign Arbitral Awards (often referred to as the \"New York Convention\"), and the Inter-American Convention on International Commercial Arbitration, 14 I.L.M. 336 (1975). Ratified treaties in the U.S. are considered \"supreme law of the land\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43013179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43013179", "title": "Executive DBA Council", "text": "Executive DBA Council\n\nThe Executive DBA Council (EDBAC) is a global volunteer organization that focuses on executive doctoral programs and their issues. The group's posted mission is \"...to provide outstanding networking and educational opportunities for professionals who serve and participate in executive doctoral degree programs.\" The group states on its website that it is the only global organization of its kind.\n\nThe EDBAC was founded in 2011 to promote the DBA degree as a business or executive qualification, rather than an academic qualification, such as a PhD. The group held its first meeting at Case Western Reserve University in June 2011. \n\nThe DBA and PhD both focus on developing an individual's research skills, but the PhD is designed to prepare individuals for academic careers. The DBA is intended to prepare students for a research career in business. An executive qualification such as a DBA is also called a practitioner degree.\n\nThe EDBAC offers membership to accredited, not-for-profit public or private institutions of higher learning that offer a doctoral program for executives or are considering doing so. As of January 2016, there were 48 member schools, including University of Maryland University College,Benedictine University, Case Western Reserve University, City University of Hong Kong, Copenhagen Business School, Cranfield University, ESC Rennes School of Business, Georgia State University, Manchester University, Oklahoma State University, Paris Dauphine University, Rollins College, Temple University, University of Florida and University of Reading.\n\nThe EDBAC has a board consisting of a chairperson and ten other members, of which two are program alumni. Emma Parry of Cranfield University, is the current chairperson.\n\nThe Executive DBA Council sponsors and organizes an Annual Engaged Management Scholarship (EMS) Conference where current students and alumni of member programs present peer-reviewed research. The sixth annual conference was held in Paris, France in September 2016. The 2017 conference was scheduled for Tampa, Florida in September 2017 but was cancelled due to Hurricane Irma. The 2018 conference is scheduled to take place at Temple University September 6-9 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "34156864", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34156864", "title": "Fluidized bed scrubber", "text": "Fluidized bed scrubber\n\nA Fluidized Bed Scrubber system uses carefully selected hollow plastic elements of varying shapes, according to the process requirements, to generate a three phase fluidized bed in which increased Reynolds numbers (turbulence) in the gaseous phase, and the liquid phase, provoke an intense enhancement of turbulent action. This is claimed to lead to substantial increases in overall mass and heat transfer coefficients, and interphase surface renewal rates, as compared to classical packings and other scrubbing technologies (see below).\n\nIn addition, the fluid bed simultaneously removes particulates down to very fine sub half micron diameters. System design varies from application to application as process operations, or pollution control needs, vary widely.\n\nWhen very hot gases are to be treated and cleaned using the fluidized bed scrubber technology, they are first passed through a quench chamber, which is usually integrated with the scrubber such that quenching can occur in two steps, using both the inlet quench section and a specially designed sump to maximum effect. The cooled gases are then passed on directly to the fluidized bed where ascending gas is intimately mixed by the fluidized packing elements with the descending, and usually recirculated, liquid.\n\nThe fluidized bed scrubber system allows operation with slurries, muds and oily or viscous liquids due to the claimed 100% non-clogging nature of the fluidized bed.\n\nBelow are two real case comparisons of equivalent efficiency alternative technologies commonly used in industrial applications.\n"}
{"id": "19883298", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19883298", "title": "Frances Yung", "text": "Frances Yung\n\nFrances Yung Ming Fong (born 1972 with family roots in Wuxi, Jiangsu) was the director of Group Finance Department of CITIC Pacific. She is the deputy chairman of CITIC Pacific Communications Limited and the director of Hong Kong Eastern Harbour Tunnel Company. She is the daughter of Larry Yung Chi Kin, the former chairman of CITIC Pacific.\n\nIn October 2008, Yung and other two senior executives were involved in an unauthorized foreign exchange deals in CITIC Pacific, which caused a HK$15.5 billion loss in the company. Then she was removed from the finance department and demoted with a salary cut, confirmed by Henry Fan, the CITIC Pacific's managing director.\n"}
{"id": "6336582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6336582", "title": "Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone", "text": "Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone\n\nFrancesco Gaetano Caltagirone (; born 1943) is an Italian businessman. He controls the holding company Caltagirone S.p.A. with interests in cement manufacturing, real estate, construction and publishing (with Caltagirone Editore).\n\nAs of 2015, Caltagirone was ranked number #894 on the 2015 \"Forbes\" billionaire list and #19 in Italy, with an estimated net worth of $2.1 billion.\n\nFrancesco Gaetano Caltagirone was born in Rome into a large family composed almost entirely of manufacturers. His grandfather constructed the first buildings in Palermo in the last decades of the 1800s.\n\nWhile studying at the faculty of engineering in Rome, Caltagirone and his brothers Edoardo Francesco Caltagirone and Leonardo Francesco Caltagirone resumed the family business that had been interrupted in the forties because of the sudden death of their father. With the inherited capital, the brothers started the company together with their cousin Gaetano Caltagirone, an architect already working as a manufacturer.\n\nFrancesco Gaetano Caltagirone became a partner in the company. Since then the group (today known as the Caltagirone Group or Caltagirone S.p.A) has constructed approximately 200 real estate complexes, composed of nearly 800 buildings with a total area of close to 3.3 million square metres and a value of €15 billion.\n\nIn the seventies the equity balance between Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone and his cousin Gaetano Caltagirone was changed, and Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone became part of the majority shareholders – on an equal footing with his brother Edoardo Francesco Caltagirone.\n\nIn 1984 he took over Vianini Lavori S.p.A. – now part of the Caltagirone Group – which operates worldwide in the field of large infrastructure project. He became president of the company. After a complete industrial restructuring, he carried out the listing of the two subsidiaries, Vianini Lavori S.p.A Industry and Vianini Industria S.p.A.\n\nIn 1992 he took over Cementir S.p.A, the fourth biggest Italian company in the cement industry, acquired by IRI (Istituto per la Ricostruzione Industriale) through a public auction. In a few years, under the guidance of his son Francesco Caltagirone Jr., Cementir S.p.A became a multinational company with significant presence in Scandinavia, Turkey and the Far East. About 80% of the turnover is produced outside Italy.\n\nIn the mid-nineties he assumed full control of the Caltagirone Group joining his shares with those of his cousin Gaetano Caltagirone in the company Finanziaria Italia. Francesco Gaetano Caltagirone holds approximately 70% of Finanziaria Italia, which controls about 51% of Caltagirone S.p.A.\n\nIn 1996 he acquired the Roman newspaper \"Il Messaggero\" from the Montedison Group, and the following year two local newspapers from private investors: \"Il Mattino\" based in Naples and \"Il Corriere Adriatico\" based in Ancona.\n\nSince 2000 all publishing and new media have been clustered in the Caltagirone Editore publishing group – the fifth biggest group in Italy. In 2006 he acquired the majority stake in the newspaper \"Il Gazzettino\" based in Venice.\n\nFrancesco Gaetano Caltagirone is a member of the Executive Committee of Confindustria and the Committee of the President of the Italian Federation of Newspaper Publishers, and he is a director of the Auditorium Parco della Musica of Rome.\n\nIn 2006 he was appointed a Knight of the Order of Merit for Labour. In the same year he became vice-president of Banca Monte dei Paschi di Siena. Until early 2012, when he liquidated his share completely, he was the second largest shareholder and the most important private individual shareholder. In 2007 he was appointed Director of Assicurazioni Generali S.p.A, of which he was appointed Vice President in April 2010.\n\nHe is married to Luisa Farinon (the sister of former TV presenter Gabriella) and has three children: Francesco Jr., Alessandro and Azzurra, the wife of the Italian politician Pier Ferdinando Casini.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22319336", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22319336", "title": "Gay Financial Network", "text": "Gay Financial Network\n\nThe Gay Financial Network was created by Walter Schubert in April 1998. It aims to single out businesses which practice discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation. It was the first gay-specific company to be advertised in \"The Wall Street Journal\", on February 18, 2000 and has been seen as an example of the merging of gay activism with gay marketing.\n\n"}
{"id": "301591", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=301591", "title": "Grand Central Terminal", "text": "Grand Central Terminal\n\nGrand Central Terminal (GCT; also referred to as Grand Central Station or simply as Grand Central) is a commuter rail terminal located at 42nd Street and Park Avenue in Midtown Manhattan, New York City. Grand Central is the southern terminus of the Metro-North Railroad's Harlem, Hudson and New Haven Lines. The terminal serves Metro-North commuters traveling to the Bronx in New York City; Westchester, Putnam, and Dutchess counties in New York; and Fairfield and New Haven counties in Connecticut. The terminal also contains a connection to the New York City Subway at Grand Central–42nd Street. It is the third-busiest train station in North America after Toronto Union Station and New York Penn Station, and the second-busiest in the United States after New York Penn Station.\n\nThe distinctive architecture and interior design of Grand Central Terminal's station house have earned it several landmark designations, including as a U.S. National Historic Landmark. The terminal is one of the world's ten most visited tourist attractions, with 21.9 million visitors in 2013, excluding train and subway passengers.\n\nGrand Central Terminal was built by and named for the New York Central Railroad in the pinnacle of American long-distance passenger rail travel. Until 1991, the terminal also served Amtrak, which consolidated all of its services at nearby Pennsylvania Station upon completion of the Empire Connection. Limited Amtrak service also served the station during the summers of 2017 and 2018 because of construction around Penn Station. The East Side Access project, which will bring Long Island Rail Road service to the terminal, is expected to be completed in late 2022.\n\nGrand Central covers and has 44 platforms, more than any other railroad station in the world. Its platforms, all below ground, serve 30 tracks on the upper level and 26 on the lower, though only 43 tracks are currently in use for passenger service. The total number of tracks along platforms and in rail yards exceeds 100 as most previous tracks that are not in regular use are used for the rail yard. Unlike other Metro-North stations, Grand Central Terminal is not owned by Metro-North's operator, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority (MTA), but by a private company known as Midtown TDR Ventures. However, in 2018, the MTA announced that it would buy Grand Central Terminal as well as the Hudson and Harlem Lines for a combined $35 million.\n\nGrand Central was named after the New York Central Railroad, the company that constructed the station house and its two predecessors. Although the terminal has been officially called \"Grand Central Terminal\" since the present structure opened, it has \"always been more colloquially and affectionately known as Grand Central Station\", a name of one of the earlier railroad stations on the same site. \"Grand Central Station\" is the name of the nearby U.S. Post Office station at 450 Lexington Avenue, but may also refer to the Grand Central–42nd Street subway station that is located next to the terminal. The name was also used for the renovated Grand Central Depot, from 1900 until its demolition in 1903.\n\nThe interior of Grand Central Terminal has restaurants, such as the Grand Central Oyster Bar & Restaurant and various fast food outlets surrounding the Dining Concourse on the level below the Main Concourse. There are also delis, bakeries, a gourmet and fresh food market, and an annex of the New York Transit Museum. The more than 40 retail stores include newsstands and chain stores, including a Starbucks coffee shop, a Rite Aid pharmacy, and an Apple Store.\n\nGrand Central Terminal's basements are among the largest in the city. This includes M42, a sub-basement under the terminal that contains the AC-to-DC converters used to supply DC traction current to the tracks. The exact location of M42 is closely guarded and it does not appear on maps. Two of the original rotary converters remain, kept solely as a historical record. During World War II, this facility was closely guarded because its sabotage would have impaired troop movement on the Eastern Seaboard. It is said that any unauthorized person entering the facility during the war risked being shot on sight; the rotary converters could have easily been crippled by a bucket of sand. The Abwehr, a German espionage service, sent two spies to sabotage it; they were arrested by the FBI before they could strike.\n\nThe terminal building primarily uses granite, so the building emits radiation. People who work full-time in the station receive an average dose of 525 mrem/year, more than permitted in nuclear power facilities.\n\nThe Main Concourse is the center of Grand Central. At long by wide by high, the cavernous Main Concourse is usually filled with bustling crowds and is often used as a meeting place. The ticket booths are here, although many now stand unused or have been repurposed since the introduction of ticket vending machines. The concourse's large American flag was first hung inside a few days after the September 11 attacks on the World Trade Center. The main information booth is in the center of the concourse. The four-faced brass clock on top of the information booth, perhaps the most recognizable icon of Grand Central, was designed by Henry Edward Bedford and cast in Waterbury, Connecticut. Each of the four clock faces is made from opalescent glass (now often called opal glass or milk glass), though urban legend has it that the faces are made of opal and that Sotheby's and Christie's have estimated their value to be between $10 million and $20 million. A 1954 \"New York Times\" article on the restoration of the clock notes that \"Each of the glass faces was twenty-four inches in diameter...\" Within the marble and brass pagoda lies a \"secret\" door that conceals a spiral staircase leading to the lower-level information booth.\n\nOutside the station, the clock in front of the Grand Central façade facing 42nd Street contains the world's largest example of Tiffany glass. It is surrounded by the \"Glory of Commerce\" sculptural group, which includes representations of Minerva, Hercules, and Mercury. The sculptures were designed by French sculptor Jules-Felix Coutan and carved by the John Donnelly Company. At its unveiling in 1914, the trio was considered the largest sculptural group in the world.\n\nThe upper-level tracks are reached from the Main Concourse or from various hallways and passages branching off from it. On the east side of the Main Concourse is a cluster of food purveyor shops called Grand Central Market.\n\nThe original blackboard with arrival and departure information by Track 36 was replaced by an electromechanical display in the main concourse over the ticket windows that displayed times and track numbers of arriving and departing trains. Dubbed a Solari board after its Italian manufacturer, it contained rows of flip panels that displayed train information, and became a New York institution, as its many displays would flap simultaneously to reflect changes in train schedules, an indicator of just how busy Grand Central was. A small example of this type of device hangs in the Museum of Modern Art as an example of outstanding industrial design.\n\nThe flap-board destination sign was replaced with high-resolution mosaic LCD modules also manufactured by Solari Udine. Similar modules are now also used on the trains, both on the sides to display the destination, and on the interior to display the time, next station, station stops, and other passenger information. In December 2017, as part of the Customer Service Initiative, the MTA awarded contracts to replace the display boards.\n\nThe Dining Concourse, below the Main Concourse and connected to it by numerous stairs, ramps, and escalators, provides access to the lower-level tracks. It has central seating and lounge areas, surrounded by restaurants and food vendors. The Oyster Bar, the oldest business within Grand Central, is adjacent to the concourse.\n\nThe Dining Concourse used to be called the Suburban Concourse, but as part of the late-1990s renovation of Grand Central Terminal, stands and restaurants were installed in the concourse. As part of this renovation, escalators linking directly to the main concourse level, where there are additional shops, were added. Since 2015, part of the Dining Concourse has been closed in order to build structural framework that would allow for the construction of stairways and escalators between the concourse and the new LIRR station being built as part of East Side Access.\n\nVanderbilt Hall, named for the family that built and owned the station, serves as the entrance area from 42nd Street at Pershing Square. It sits next to the Main Concourse. Formerly the main waiting room for the terminal, it is now used for the annual Christmas Market and special exhibitions, and is rented for private events.\n\nThe Campbell Apartment is an elegantly restored cocktail lounge, just south of the 43rd Street/Vanderbilt Avenue entrance, that attracts a mix of commuters and tourists. It was at one time the office of 1920s tycoon John W. Campbell and replicates the galleried hall of a 13th-century Florentine palace.\n\nFrom 1939 to 1964, CBS Television occupied a large portion of the terminal building, particularly above the main waiting room. The space contained two production studios (41 and 42), two \"program control\" facilities (43 and 44), network master control, and facilities for local station WCBS-TV. In 1958, the world's first major videotape operations facility opened in a former rehearsal room on the seventh floor of the main terminal building. The facility used 14 Ampex VR-1000 videotape recorders. \"Douglas Edwards with the News\" broadcast from there for several years, covering among other events John Glenn's 1962 Mercury-Atlas 6 space flight. Edward R. Murrow's \"See It Now\" originated from Grand Central, including his famous broadcasts on Senator Joseph McCarthy. The Murrow broadcasts were recreated in George Clooney's movie \"Good Night, and Good Luck\", although the CBS News and corporate offices were not actually in the same building as the film implies. The long-running panel show \"What's My Line?\" was first broadcast from the GCT studios, as were \"The Goldbergs\" and \"Mama\". The facility's operations were later moved to the CBS Broadcast Center.\n\nIn 1966, the former studio space was converted to Vanderbilt Tennis Club, a sports club with two tennis courts. It was once deemed as the most expensive place to play tennis, with tenants charged $58 an hour to play, until financial troubles forced the club to lower its fees to $40 an hour. The club is so named because it is above the Vanderbilt Hall. Real estate magnate Donald Trump bought the club in 1984 after discovering the space while renovating the terminal's exterior. Trump operated the club until 2009. The space is currently occupied by a conductor lounge and a smaller sports facility with a single tennis court.\n\nThe subway platforms at Grand Central are reached from the Main Concourse. The subway platforms, originally built by the Interborough Rapid Transit Company (IRT), consists of platforms for three lines, now operated by the MTA as part of the New York City Subway.\n\nThe IRT 42nd Street Shuttle platforms were originally an express stop on the original IRT subway, opened in 1904. When the IRT Lexington Avenue Line was extended uptown in 1918, the original tracks were converted to shuttle use. One track remains connected to the downtown Lexington Avenue local track but the connection is not in revenue service. A fire in the 1960s destroyed much of the shuttle station, and it was later rebuilt. There are also two other platform levels. The Lexington Avenue Line's platforms are located under the southeastern corner of the Metro-North terminal building, to the east of and at a lower level than the shuttle platforms. The platforms are sometimes called the \"diagonal station\" because they are oriented 45° from the rest of the Manhattan street grid. The IRT Flushing Line platform is deeper than the IRT Lexington Avenue Line's platforms because it is part of the Steinway Tunnel, which descends under the East River to the east of Grand Central. It opened in 1915, three years before the Lexington Avenue Line platforms did.\n\nAt the Park Avenue/42nd Street entrance to Grand Central Terminal, near the eastern side of the headhouse, there are stairs, escalators, and an elevator providing direct access to the fare control area for the Lexington Avenue and Flushing Lines. The shuttle platforms are directly connected to Grand Central Terminal's headhouse via a passageway between the main Metro-North concourse and the shuttle platforms' mezzanine, just east of Vanderbilt Avenue (on the west side of the headhouse building).\n\nGrand Central North, opened on August 18, 1999, is a network of passageways that provides access to Grand Central from 45th Street, 47th Street, and 48th Street. Ideas for a northern entrance to Grand Central had been discussed since at least the 1970s. Construction on Grand Central North lasted from 1994 to 1999 and cost $75 million. Delays were attributed to the incomplete nature of the original blueprints of Grand Central and previously undiscovered groundwater beneath East 45th Street.\n\nIt is connected to the Main Concourse through two long hallways that run parallel to the tracks on the upper level: the 1,000-foot (300 m) Northwest Passage and 1,200-foot (360 m) Northeast Passage. Entrances are at the northeast corner of East 47th Street and Madison Avenue (Northwest Passage), northeast corner of East 48th Street and Park Avenue (Northeast Passage), and on the east and west sides of 230 Park Avenue (Helmsley Building) between 45th and 46th Streets. A fifth entrance opened in early 2012 on the south side of 47th Street between Park and Lexington Avenues. The 47th Street passage provides access to the upper level tracks and the 45th Street passage provides access to the lower-level tracks. Elevator access is available to the 47th Street (upper level) passage from street level on the north side of E. 47th Street, between Madison and Vanderbilt Avenues. There is no elevator access to the actual train platforms from Grand Central North; handicapped access is provided through the main terminal.\n\nThroughout these passages, there is an Arts for Transit mosaic installation by Ellen Driscoll, an artist from Brooklyn.\n\nThe entrances to Grand Central North were originally open from 6:30 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. Monday through Friday and 9 a.m. to 9:30 p.m. on Saturday and Sunday. In summer 2006, Grand Central North was closed on weekends, with the MTA citing low usage and the need to save money. Before it was closed, about 6,000 people used Grand Central North on a typical weekend, and about 30,000 on weekdays.\n\nThe terminal has the most platforms in any railway station in the world, with 44 platform numbers spread across 28 physical platforms. Of these, 43 are part of island platforms and one is a side platform. The tracks are numbered according to their location in the terminal building. Odd-numbered tracks are usually on the east side (right side facing north) of the platform; even-numbered tracks on the west. , there are 67 tracks, including unused tracks and storage sidings. Of these, 43 tracks are in regular passenger use, serving Metro-North.\n\nThe upper level has 42 tracks, including ten tracks used only for storage. The passenger tracks are numbered 11 to 42 east to west. A balloon loop track encircles 40 of these tracks. Tracks 22 and 31 were removed in the late 1990s to build concourses for Grand Central North. Track 12 was removed to expand the platform between tracks 11 and 13 and track 14 is only used for loading a garbage train.\n\nThe lower level has 27 tracks numbered 100 to 126, east to west, circled by a balloon loop that leads to the upper level. Only tracks 102–112 and 114–116 on the lower level are used for passenger service. Tracks 116–125 on Metro-North's lower level are being demolished to make room for the Long Island Rail Road concourse being built under the Metro-North station as part of the East Side Access project.\n\nThe LIRR terminal being constructed as part of East Side Access will contain an additional four platforms and eight tracks numbered 201–204 and 301–304 in two double-decked caverns underneath the ground. The new LIRR station will have four tracks and two platforms in each of two caverns, and each cavern would contain two tracks and one platform on each level. A concourse will be located between the LIRR's two track levels.\n\nUnderneath the Waldorf-Astoria (and connected to Grand Central via the tracks) is a private platform, Track 61, which was built mainly for former United States President Franklin D. Roosevelt. He would travel into the city using his personal train into Track 61, then take a specially designed elevator to the surface. It has been used occasionally since Roosevelt's death. This platform was part of the original design of the Waldorf Astoria. It was mentioned in \"The New York Times\" in 1929 and first used by General Pershing in 1938.\n\nGrand Central Terminal has both monumental spaces and meticulously crafted detail, especially on its facade. In a February 2013 BBC News article, historian David Cannadine described it as one of the most majestic buildings of the twentieth century. In 2013, Grand Central Terminal hosted 21.6 million visitors, putting it among the ten most-visited tourist attractions in the world.\n\nGrand Central Terminal was an innovation in transit-hub design and continues to influence designers. One new concept was the use of ramps, rather than staircases, to conduct passengers and luggage through the facility. Another was wrapping Park Avenue around the Terminal above the street, creating a second level for picking up and dropping off passengers.\n\nAmong the buildings modeled on Grand Central's design is the Poughkeepsie station, on Metro-North's Hudson Line in Poughkeepsie, New York. It was also designed by Warren and Wetmore and opened in 1918.\n\nThe Main Concourse has an elaborately decorated astronomical ceiling, conceived in 1912 by Warren with his friend, French portrait artist Paul César Helleu, and executed by James Monroe Hewlett and Charles Basing of Hewlett-Basing Studio, with Helleu consulting. Corps of astronomers and painting assistants worked with Hewlett and Basing. The original ceiling was replaced in the late 1930s to correct falling plaster.\n\nThere is a small dark circle amid the stars above the image of Pisces. In a 1957 attempt to counteract feelings of insecurity spawned by the Soviet launch of Sputnik, an American Redstone missile was set up in the Main Concourse. With no other way to erect the missile, the hole was cut to allow a cable to be lowered to lift the rocket into place. Historical preservation dictated that this hole remain (as opposed to being repaired) as a testament to the many uses of the Terminal over the years.\n\nBy the 1980s, the ceiling was obscured by decades of what was thought to be coal and diesel smoke. Spectroscopic examination revealed that it was mostly tar and nicotine from tobacco smoke. A 12-year restoration effort, completed in autumn 1996, restored the ceiling to its original design. A single dark patch above the Michael Jordan Steakhouse was left untouched by renovators to remind visitors of the grime that once covered the ceiling.\n\nThe starry ceiling is astronomically inaccurate in a complicated way. While the stars within some constellations appear correctly as they would from earth, other constellations are reversed left-to-right, as is the overall arrangement of the constellations on the ceiling. For example, Orion is correctly rendered, but the adjacent constellations Taurus and Gemini are reversed both internally and in their relation to Orion, with Taurus near Orion's raised arm where Gemini should be. One possible explanation is that the overall ceiling design might have been based on the medieval custom of depicting the sky as it would appear to God looking in at the celestial sphere from outside, but that would have reversed Orion as well. A more likely explanation is partially mistaken transcription of the sketch supplied by Columbia Astronomy professor Harold Jacoby. Though the astronomical inconsistencies were noticed promptly by a commuter in 1913, they have not been corrected in any of the subsequent renovations of the ceiling.\n\nThree buildings serving essentially the same function have stood on the current Grand Central Terminal's site. The current building's large and imposing scale was intended by New York Central to compete, and compare favorably in the public eye, with its arch-rival the Pennsylvania Railroad and the Pennsylvania Railroad's now-destroyed Pennsylvania Station, itself an architectural masterpiece.\n\nGrand Central Depot brought the trains of the New York Central and Hudson River Railroad, the New York and Harlem Railroad, and the New York and New Haven Railroad together in one large station. The station was designed by John B. Snook and financed by Cornelius Vanderbilt. Grand Central Depot first opened in October 1871. The original plan was for the Harlem Railroad to start using it on October 9, 1871 (moving from their 27th Street depot), the New Haven Railroad on October 16, and the Hudson River Railroad on October 23, with the staggering done to minimize confusion. However, the Hudson River Railroad did not move to it until November 1, which puts the other two dates in doubt.\n\nThe head house containing passenger service areas and railroad offices was an \"L\" shape with a short leg running east-west on 42nd Street and a long leg running north-south on Vanderbilt Avenue. The train shed, north and east of the head house, had three innovations in U.S. practice: the platforms were elevated to the height of the cars, the roof was a balloon shed with a clear span over all of the tracks, and only passengers with tickets were allowed on the platforms (a rule enforced by ticket examiners). The Harlem, Hudson, and New Haven trains were initially in different stations that were adjacent to each other, which created chaos in baggage transfer. The combined Grand Central Depot serviced all three railroads.\n\nBetween 1899 and 1900, the head house was renovated extensively. It was expanded from three to six stories with an entirely new façade, on plans by railroad architect Bradford Gilbert. The train shed was kept, but the tracks that previously continued south of 42nd Street were removed and the train yard reconfigured in an effort to reduce congestion and turn-around time for trains. The reconstructed building was renamed Grand Central Station.\n\nOn January 8, 1902, a fatal train crash occurred in the Park Avenue Tunnel, north of the station. A southbound train had overrun several signals and collided with another southbound train, killing 15 people and injuring many more. This event prompted William J. Wilgus, the chief engineer of New York Central, to think about alternatives to running a large railway yard in a growing metropolis.\n\nOn December 22 of that year, Wilgus wrote a letter to New York Central president W. H. Newman, recommending that Grand Central Station, which served steam trains at the time, be completely replaced with a terminal for electric trains. Wilgus stated that electric trains were cleaner, faster, and cheaper to repair. In addition, real estate could be built over the 16-block open cut in which Grand Central Station was located. Wilgus proposed a 12-story, building over the terminal to offset the cost of the station, for a total profit of $2.3 million per year from rents. The terminal was to cost $35 million and New York Central made most of its profit from freight, but the railroad's board of directors, including Cornelius Vanderbilt II, William K. Vanderbilt, William Rockefeller, and J. P. Morgan, approved the project on June 30, 1903.\n\nBetween 1903 and 1913, the entire building was torn down in phases and replaced by the current Grand Central Terminal. It was to be the biggest terminal in the world, both in the size of the building and in the number of tracks. Before construction even started, objections were raised about the fact that dozens of buildings, on a plot of land, had to be razed to build the terminal. Wilgus was to head the project. Wilgus started to figure out ways to build the new terminal efficiently. His solution was to demolish the old Grand Central Station and build the new terminal in sections, while some station operations were shifted to the Grand Central Palace Hotel for a while. This doubled the cost of construction, but obviated the need to suspend all rail service for the duration of construction.\n\nAcross town, Pennsylvania Station was being built by the Pennsylvania Railroad, which had started building its station and the North River Tunnels in 1901. Wilgus wanted the new Grand Central Terminal's design to compete with Penn Station's similarly grand design, which was being built by McKim, Mead & White. Therefore, in 1903, New York Central set up a design competition to decide the firms who would design the new terminal. Wilgus already had abstract concepts for the new terminal and knew some design flaws in the old depot that he wanted to remove in the new terminal.\n\nAlthough many architects and firms entered the competition, only two won—Reed and Stem and Warren and Wetmore. Reed and Stem, from St. Paul, Minnesota, had won the contract in part because of their experience designing railway stations, and in part because one of the partners, Allen Stem, was Wilgus's brother-in-law. Similarly, Warren & Wetmore, the architects of the New York Yacht Club building, had Whitney Warren, the cousin of William Vanderbilt, as one of its partners. Reed and Stem and Warren and Wetmore entered an agreement to act as the associated architects of Grand Central Terminal in February 1904. Reed and Stem were responsible for the overall design of the station, while Warren and Wetmore added architectural details and the Beaux-Arts style. Charles Reed was appointed the chief executive for the collaboration between the two firms, and he promptly appointed Alfred T. Fellheimer as head of the combined design team. The team, called Associated Architects of Grand Central Terminal, had a tense relationship due to constant design disputes. Warren and Wetmore's plan, for instance, removed the potentially-profitable tower above the terminal as well as vehicular viaducts around the depot.\n\nThe construction project was enormous. About of the ground were excavated at depths of up to 10 floors, with of debris being removed from the site on 300 cars every day. The average construction site was deep, with the lower level being below ground. Over 10,000 workers were assigned to put of steel and of track inside the final structure. In addition, a , drainage tube was sunk under the ground to the East River.\n\nIn 1906–7, the New York Central & Hudson River Railroad and the New York, New Haven & Hartford Railroad electrified their tracks with third rail on the approaches to Grand Central Terminal. This allowed electric trains to enter the then-future Grand Central Terminal upon its completion. On September 30, 1906, the first electric train departed for the soon-to-be-demolished Grand Central Station from Highbridge, Bronx.\n\nTo accommodate ever-growing rail traffic into the restricted Midtown area, Wilgus took advantage of the recent electrification technology to propose a novel scheme: a bi-level station below ground. Arriving trains would go underground under Park Avenue, and proceed to an upper-level incoming station if they were mainline trains, or to a lower-level platform if they were suburban trains. In addition, turning loops within the station itself obviated complicated switching moves to bring back the trains to the coach yards for servicing. Departing mainline trains reversed into upper-level platforms in the conventional way. New track infrastructure allowed maximum train speeds of , as well as a massive four-floor, 400-lever signal tower to control the suburban trains.\n\nBurying electric trains underground brought an additional advantage to the railroads: the ability to sell above-ground air rights over the tracks and platforms for real-estate development. The result of this was the creation of several blocks worth of prime real estate in Manhattan, which were then sold for a large sum of money. In addition, the terminal itself contains support structures for a possible future tower to be built above it. The terminal also did away with bifurcating Park Avenue by introducing a \"circumferential elevated driveway\" that allowed Park Avenue traffic to traverse around the building and over 42nd Street without encumbering nearby streets. The building was also designed to accommodate reconnecting both segments of 43rd Street by going through the concourse had the City of New York demanded it.\n\nThe last train left Grand Central Station at midnight on June 5, 1910, and workers promptly began demolishing the old station. Plans for the new terminal were filed in January 1911. At the time, the proposals for Grand Central Terminal were spread out among 55 architects' drawings, marking one of the most comprehensive sets of plans that had ever been submitted to the New York City Department of Buildings.\n\nOn December 20, 1910, a gas explosion at the station killed 10 people and injured 117 more.\n\nOn February 2, 1913, the new terminal was opened, with passengers boarding the first train at one minute past midnight. Within sixteen hours of opening, there were an estimated 150,000 visitors.\n\nThe footprint of Grand Central Terminal's rail yard was much larger than Penn Station's. The former had rail yards as opposed to the latter's rail yards. Grand Central had 46 tracks and 30 platforms, more than twice Penn Station's 21 tracks and 11 platforms. In addition, the $43 million Grand Central Terminal had twice as much masonry and steel than Penn Station did, with another $800,000 for a roof that could potentially support a skyscraper in the future. The new terminal also had a balloon loop for trains to turn around without reversing out of the station. The station building was long, wide, and high.\n\nDesigners of the new terminal also tried to make it as comfortable as possible. To that end, amenities included an oak-floored waiting room for women, attended to by maids; a shoeshine room, also for women; a room with telephones; a beauty salon with gender-separated portions; a dressing room, with maids available for a fee; and a men's barbershop for men, containing a public portion with barbers from many cultures, as well as a rentable private portion. As part of the plans, Grand Central was also going to have two concourses, one on each level. The \"outbound\" concourse would have a 15,000-person capacity while the \"inbound\" concourse would have an 8,000-person capacity. A waiting room adjoining each concourse could fit another 5,000 people. Brochures advertised the new Grand Central Terminal as a tourist-friendly space where \"[t]imid travelers may ask questions with no fear of being rebuffed by hurrying trainmen, or imposed upon by hotel runners, chauffeurs or others in blue uniforms\"; a safe and welcoming place for people of all cultures, where \"special accommodations are to be provided for immigrants and gangs of laborers\"; and a general tourist attraction \"where one delights to loiter, admiring its beauty and symmetrical lines — a poem in stone\".\n\nFor safety reasons, every train at Grand Central Terminal departs one minute later than its posted departure time. The extra minute is intended to encourage passengers rushing to catch trains at the last minute to slow down. According to \"The Atlantic\", Grand Central Terminal has the lowest rate of slips, trips, and falls on its marble floors, compared to all other stations in the U.S. with similar flooring.\n\nThe construction of Grand Central created a mini-city called the \"Grand Central Zone\" or \"Terminal City\", which stretched from 42nd to 51st Streets between Madison and Lexington Avenues. This area included the Commodore, Biltmore, Roosevelt, Marguery, Chatham, Barclay, Park Lane and Waldorf Astoria Hotels, luxury apartment houses along Park Avenue, and various new office buildings. Prestigious apartment and office buildings were erected around Grand Central, which turned the area into the most desirable commercial office district in Manhattan. It spurred construction throughout the neighborhood in the 1920s, including that of skyscrapers such as the Chrysler Building.\n\nIn 1928, New York Central built its headquarters in a 34-story building (now called the Helmsley Building) straddling Park Avenue on the north side of the Terminal.\n\nIn 1947, over 65 million people, or equivalent to 40% of the United States' population at the time, traveled through Grand Central. However, railroad traffic soon declined with competition from highways and intercity airline traffic.\n\nGrand Central was designed to support a tower built above it. In 1954, William Zeckendorf proposed replacing Grand Central with an 80-story, tower, taller than the Empire State Building. I. M. Pei created a pinched-cylinder design that took the form of a glass cylinder with a wasp waist. The plan was abandoned. In 1955, Erwin S. Wolfson made his first proposal for a tower north of the Terminal replacing the Terminal's six-story office building. A revised Wolfson plan was approved in 1958 and the Pan Am Building (now the MetLife Building) was completed in 1963 even though that section of the superstructure was not designed to support a tower above it.\n\nAlthough the Pan Am Building's completion averted the terminal's imminent destruction, New York Central continued its precipitous decline. In 1968, facing bankruptcy, it merged with the Pennsylvania Railroad to form the Penn Central Railroad. The Pennsylvania Railroad was in its own precipitous decline, and in 1964, despite efforts to save the ornate Penn Station from destruction, the station was demolished and completely rebuilt to make way for an office building and the new Madison Square Garden. In 1968, Penn Central unveiled plans to build over Grand Central a tower even bigger than the Pan Am Building. The Marcel Breuer design would have used the existing building's tower support structure but would have destroyed the facade and the Main Waiting Room. The plans drew huge opposition, most prominently from Jacqueline Kennedy Onassis:\n\nSix months before the Breuer plans were unveiled, however, the New York City Landmarks Preservation Commission designated Grand Central a city landmark. Penn Central was unable to secure permission from the Commission to execute either of Breuer's two blueprints. The railroad sued the city, alleging a taking. The resulting case, \"Penn Central Transportation Co. v. New York City\" (1978), was the first time that the Supreme Court ruled on a matter of historic preservation. The Court saved the terminal, holding that New York City's Landmarks Preservation Act did not constitute a \"taking\" of Penn Central's property under the Fifth Amendment and was a reasonable use of government land-use regulatory power.\n\nPenn Central went into bankruptcy in 1970 in what was then the biggest corporate bankruptcy in American history. Most of its railroad operations were taken over by Conrail in 1976, but Penn Central retained title to Grand Central Terminal. When Penn Central reorganized as American Premier Underwriters (APU) in 1994, it retained ownership of Penn Central. In turn, APU was absorbed by American Financial Group.\n\nGrand Central and the surrounding neighborhood fell on hard times during the financial collapse of its host railroads and the near bankruptcy of New York City itself.\n\nIn 1975, Donald Trump bought the Commodore Hotel to the east of the terminal for $10 million and then worked out a deal with Jay Pritzker to transform it into one of the first Grand Hyatt hotels. Trump negotiated various tax breaks and, in the process, agreed to renovate the exterior of the terminal. The complementary masonry from the Commodore was covered with a mirror-glass \"slipcover\" façade – the masonry still exists underneath. In the same deal, Trump optioned Penn Central's rail yards on the Hudson River between 59th and 72nd Streets that eventually became Trump Place, the biggest private development in New York City.\n\nIn order to improve passenger flow, a new passageway at Grand Central was opened in May 1975.\n\nGrand Central Terminal was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1975 and declared a National Historic Landmark in the following year.\n\nOn September 11, 1976, a group of Croatian nationalists planted a bomb in a coin locker at Grand Central Terminal. The group also hijacked a plane. After stating their political demands, they revealed the location and provided the instructions for disarming the Grand Central Terminal bomb. The disarming operation was not executed properly and the resulting explosion wounded over 30 and killed one NYPD bomb squad specialist.\n\nThe Grand Hyatt opened in 1980 and the neighborhood immediately began a transformation. Trump sold his half-share in the hotel for $142 million in 1996.\n\nThroughout this period, the interior of Grand Central was dominated by huge billboard advertisements, with perhaps the most famous being the giant Kodak Colorama photos that ran along the entire east side, and the Westclox \"Big Ben\" clock over the south concourse.\n\nAmtrak announced that it would stop service to the station in 1988. The final Amtrak train stopped at the station on April 7, 1991, upon the completion of the Empire Connection, which allowed trains from Albany, Toronto, and Montreal to use Penn Station. Previously, travelers had to change stations via subway, bus, or cab. Since then, Grand Central has mostly served Metro-North Railroad, except for limited Empire Service Amtrak trains in the summer of 2017 and all Empire Service trains for summer of 2018, with the addition of the Maple Leaf, Ethan Allen Express, and Adirondack train services.\n\nIn 1988, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority, Metro-North's operator, commissioned a study of the Grand Central Terminal. The report found that parts of the terminal could be turned into a retail area, and the balconies could be used for \"high-quality\" restaurants. This would increase the terminal's annual retail and advertising revenue from $8 million to $17 million. At the time, more than 80 million subway and Metro-North passengers used Grand Central Terminal every year, but eight of 73 storefronts were empty, and almost three-quarters of leases were set to expire by 1990. The MTA signed a 280-year lease in 1994. The agency announced a renovation of terminal, in January 1995. The $113.8 million renovation would be the most extensive rehabilitation to the terminal since its opening in 1913. Of the projected cost, $30 million was to come from Metro-North's capital allocation, while the other $84 million was to be raised through the sale of bonds. The MTA expected that the terminal's renovation would be completed in 1998, and that the retail space would net $13 million in annual revenue in 1999, which would increase to $17.5 million in 2009.\n\nDuring this renovation, all billboards were removed and the station was restored. These renovations were mostly finished in 1998, though some of the minor refits (such as replacement of electromechanical train information displays with electronic displays at track entries) were not completed until 2000. The most striking effect was the restoration of the Main Concourse ceiling, revealing the painted skyscape and constellations. The original baggage room, later converted into retail space and occupied for many years by Chemical Bank, was removed, and replaced with a mirror image of the West Stairs. Although the baggage room had been designed by the original architects, the restoration architects found evidence that a set of stairs mirroring those to the West was originally intended for that space. Other modifications included a complete overhaul of the Terminal's superstructure and the replacement of the electromechanical Omega Board train arrival/departure display with a purely electronic display that was designed to fit into the architecture of the Terminal aesthetically. The original quarry in Tennessee was located and reopened specifically to provide matching stone to replace damaged stone and for the new East Staircase. Each piece of new stone is labeled with its installation date and the fact that it was not a part of the original Terminal building.\n\nThe exterior was again cleaned and restored, starting with the west facade on Vanderbilt Avenue and gradually working counterclockwise. The project involved cleaning the facade, rooftop light courts, and statues; filling in cracks, repointing stones on the facade, restoring the copper roof and the building's cornice, repairing the large windows of the Main Concourse, and removing the remaining blackout paint applied to the windows during World War II. The result of the restoration, which was completed in 2007, was a cleaner, more attractive, and structurally sound exterior, and the windows now allow much more light into the Main Concourse.\n\nMidtown TDR Ventures, LLC, an investment group controlled by Argent Ventures, purchased the station from American Financial in December 2006. As part of the transaction the lease with the MTA was renegotiated through February 28, 2274. The MTA pays $2.24 million in rent and has an option to buy the station and tracks in 2017, although Argent could extend the date another 15 years to 2032. The transferable air rights remain the property of Midtown TDR Ventures.\n\nOn February 1, 2013, numerous displays, performances and events were held to celebrate the terminal's centennial.\n\nIn 2014, the One Vanderbilt supertall skyscraper was proposed for a site to the west of Grand Central Terminal, across Vanderbilt Avenue. Demolition of the existing buildings on the site began in 2015. The official groundbreaking was in October 2016 and the building is expected to be completed in 2020. Its construction includes an underground connection to Grand Central Terminal.\n\nIn December 2017, as part of the Customer Service Initiative, the MTA awarded contracts to replace the display boards and public announcement systems at Grand Central Terminal, as well as at 20 other Metro-North stations in New York State. The next-train departure time screens will be replaced with LED signs, and new cables, announcement systems, and security cameras would also be installed.\n\nThe MTA is in the midst of a large-scale project to bring Long Island Rail Road trains into the terminal via the East Side Access Project. The project was spurred by a study that showed that more than half of LIRR riders work closer to Grand Central than to the current terminus at Penn Station. The East Side Access has resulted in major blasting work under Grand Central Terminal. Since March 2007, about 1000 workers have completed more than 2,400 controlled blasts ending about October 4, 2013.\n\nA new bi-level, eight-track tunnel with four platforms was excavated under Park Avenue, more than below the Metro-North tracks and more than below the surface. Reaching the street from the lowest level, more than deep, will take about 10 minutes. There will also be a new 350,000-square-foot retail and dining concourse. It will initially be accessed via stairwells, 22 elevators, and 47 escalators connecting to Grand Central's existing food court, in comparison to the 19 escalators in the remainder of the LIRR system. The MTA plans to build and open additional entrances at 45th, 46th, and 48th streets. The escalators would be up to long. The escalators and elevators are to be partially privately operated, one of the only such instances in the entire MTA system.\n\nLIRR trains will access Park Avenue via the existing lower level of the 63rd Street Tunnel, connecting to its main line running through Sunnyside Yard in Queens. Extensions were added on both the Manhattan and Queens sides.\n\nCost estimates jumped from $4.4 billion in 2004 to $6.4 billion in 2006. The MTA said that some small buildings on the route in Manhattan will be torn down to make way for air vents. Cardinal Edward Egan criticized the plan, noting concerns about the tracks, which will largely be on the west side of Park Avenue, and their impact on St. Patrick's Cathedral. The new LIRR terminal will be open in December 2023.\n\nIn November 2018, the MTA proposed purchasing the Hudson and Harlem Lines as well as the Grand Central Terminal for up to $35.065 million, plus a discount rate of 6.25%. The purchase would include all inventory, operations, improvements, and maintenance associated with each asset, except for the air rights over Grand Central. At the time, the Hudson and Harlem Lines were owned by a holding company that had taken possession of Penn Central's assets upon its bankruptcy, while Grand Central Terminal was owned by Midtown TDR Ventures. Under the terms of the leases for each asset, the MTA would only be able to exercise an option to purchase the three assets before October 2019. The MTA wanted to purchase the assets in order to avoid future double-payments on its existing leases for these assets. If the option were exercised, the closing of the sale was not proposed to occur until at least April 2020. The MTA's finance committee approved the proposed purchase on November 13, 2018, and the full board approved the proposal two days later.\n\nFrom 1922 to 1958, Grand Central Terminal was the home of the Grand Central Art Galleries, which were established by John Singer Sargent, Edmund Greacen, Walter Leighton Clark, and others. The founders had sought a location in Manhattan that was central and easily accessible, and Alfred Holland Smith, president of New York Central, made the top of the terminal available. A 10-year lease was signed, and the galleries, together with the railroad company, spent more than $100,000 to prepare the space. The architect was William Adams Delano, best known for designing Yale Divinity School's Sterling Quadrangle.\n\nAt their opening, the galleries extended over most of the terminal's sixth floor, , and offered eight main exhibition rooms, a foyer gallery, and a reception area. A total of 20 display rooms were planned for what was intended as \"... the largest sales gallery of art in the world\". The official opening was March 22, 1923, and featured paintings by Sargent, Charles W. Hawthorne, Cecilia Beaux, Wayman Adams, and Ernest Ipsen. Sculptors included Daniel Chester French, Herbert Adams, Robert Aitken, Gutzon Borglum, and Frederic MacMonnies. The event attracted 5,000 people and received a glowing review from \"The New York Times\".\n\nA year after they opened, the galleries established the Grand Central School of Art, which occupied on the seventh floor of the east wing of the terminal. The school was directed by Sargent and French. Its first-year teachers included painters Jonas Lie and Nicolai Fechin, sculptor Chester Beach, illustrator Dean Cornwell, costume designer Helen Dryden, and muralist Ezra Winter. The Grand Central School of Art remained in the east wing until 1944.\n\nThe Grand Central Art Galleries remained in the terminal until 1958, when they moved to the Biltmore Hotel. They remained at the Biltmore for 23 years, until it was converted into an office building. When the Biltmore was demolished in 1981, they moved to 24 West 57th Street. They ceased operations in 1994.\n\nBeginning during the Christmas season of 1928 and continuing on certain holidays until 1958, an organist performed in Grand Central's North Gallery. The organist was Mary Lee Read, who initially performed on a borrowed Hammond organ. Grand Central management eventually bought an organ and a set of chimes for the station and began paying Read an annual retainer. In addition to the weeks before Christmas, Read played during the weeks before Thanksgiving and Easter and on Mother's Day. On one Easter, a choir composed of Works Progress Administration employees performed with her. Following the attack on Pearl Harbor, she attempted to lift spirits by playing \"The Star-Spangled Banner\", which brought the main concourse to a standstill. The stationmaster subsequently asked her to avoid selections that would cause passengers to miss their trains, and Read became known as the only organist in New York who was forbidden to play the United States' national anthem. On September 7, 2018, Paul McCartney performed a secret live show at Grand Central Terminal on the premiere date of his new album \"Egypt Station\".\n\nGrand Central has a \"sister station\" agreement with Tokyo Station in Japan and Hsinchu TRA station in Taiwan.\n\nMany film and television productions have included scenes shot at Grand Central Terminal. Kyle McCarthy, who handles production at Grand Central, said, \"Grand Central is one of the quintessential New York places. Whether filmmakers need an establishing shot of arriving in New York or transportation scenes, the restored landmark building is visually appealing and authentic.\"\n\n\nExplanatory notes\nCitations\nFurther reading\n"}
{"id": "1438469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1438469", "title": "Grand Central–42nd Street (New York City Subway)", "text": "Grand Central–42nd Street (New York City Subway)\n\nGrand Central–42nd Street is a major station complex of the New York City Subway. Located in Midtown Manhattan at the intersection of Park Avenue and 42nd Street, with parts of the station extending east to Lexington Avenue, it is the second busiest station in the -station system, with 46,121,509 passengers in 2016; only the Times Square station complex has more riders. It serves trains on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line, the IRT Flushing Line and the 42nd Street Shuttle, making it an all-IRT transfer point. The stations of the complex lie next to and beneath Grand Central Terminal, which serves all Metro-North Railroad lines east of the Hudson River.\n\nThe complex is signed as 42nd Street–Grand Central and is served by the:\n\nThere is a mezzanine above the Lexington Avenue Line's platforms, which have numerous exits to and from Grand Central itself as well as to the streets (see ). Escalators connect this mezzanine to the Flushing Line, although there are also staircases and passageways directly between the Lexington Avenue and Flushing Lines' platforms. The Flushing Line platform also has its own exit at its extreme eastern end, though all other exits are through the Lexington Avenue Line platforms and mezzanine. Outside the Lexington Avenue Line mezzanine's fare control, there are stairs, escalators, and an elevator to Grand Central. An east-west passageway connects the Lexington Avenue Line's mezzanine to the 42nd Street Shuttle, which also has its own dedicated entrance and exit stairs. Except for the 42nd Street Shuttle (which is inaccessible at its other station at Times Square), the whole station is handicapped accessible, as is the connection to Grand Central Terminal.\n\nThe station has undergone various recent renovations since the 1980s—when the first major renovation was carried out—but some of the passages still require repair or renovation. At the same time, a project was ongoing to air cool the station in conjunction with Metro-North Railroad's project to cool Grand Central Terminal. However, , only the Lexington Avenue Line station is air-cooled. The Lexington Avenue Line station is one of a very small number of artificially cooled stations in the New York City Subway. The Flushing Line platforms have been equipped with fans, but not an air-cooling system.\n\nIn 2014, the Metropolitan Transportation Authority installed an online, interactive touchscreen computer program called \"On The Go! Travel Station\" (OTG) in Grand Central. The self-updating kiosks allow people to route their trips, and check for delays. The MTA set up the map as part of a pilot project that saw the OTGs initially installed in five subway stations. It lists any planned work or service changes occurring on the subway as well as information to help travelers find landmarks or locales near the stations with an OTG outlet, wherein the first station to test this new technology had been Bowling Green.\n\nThe station has numerous exits into Grand Central Terminal, to the street level at and directly into several buildings along 42nd Street, including:\n\nAn exit outside of the planned One Vanderbilt is proposed. In October 2016, construction began on the entrance in One Vanderbilt.\n\nStreet-level exits include:\n\n\nThe Uptown Hudson Tubes of the Hudson & Manhattan Railroad (now PATH), which had opened in 1908, would have originally terminated at Grand Central rather than at its current terminus at 33rd Street and Sixth Avenue. The H&M platforms would have been directly below the 42nd Street Line's platforms, but above the IRT's Flushing Line platforms. However, by 1909, the IRT had constructed an unauthorized ventilation shaft between the 42nd Street line and the Steinway Tunnel. This would force the H&M to build its station at a very low depth, thus making it harder for any passengers to access the H&M station. As an alternative, it was proposed to connect the Uptown Tubes to the Steinway Tunnel.\n\nA franchise to extend the Uptown Tubes to Grand Central was awarded in June 1909, with the expectation that construction could start within six months and that the new extension would be ready by January 1911. However, by 1914, the H&M had not started construction of the Grand Central extension yet, and it wished to delay the start of construction further. By 1920, the H&M had submitted seventeen applications in which they sought to delay construction of the extensions; in all seventeen instances, the H&M had claimed that it was not an appropriate time to construct the tube. This time, however, the Rapid Transit Commissioners declined this request for a delay, effectively ending the H&M's right to build an extension to Grand Central.\n\nAs part of the construction of One Vanderbilt at the corner of Vanderbilt Avenue and 42nd Street, developer SL Green Realty is making several upgrades to the station. The improvements include multiple new entrances and exits, to the intersection of Lexington Avenue and 42nd Street as well an underground entrance directly from the building to the 42nd Street Shuttle platforms. Three new staircases from the mezzanine to the southbound Lexington Avenue Line platform, and one new staircase to the northbound platform will be added. The project also involves reconfiguration of columns supporting the nearby Grand Hyatt New York hotel and destruction of 40% of the Hyatt's basement to expand the subway mezzanine, as well as the thinning of columns on platforms and mezzanines to increase space. This would directly result in additional capacity for the subway station, with 4,000 to 6,000 more subway passengers per hour being able to use the station. These improvements would cost over $200 million. The MTA mandated the station improvements in exchange for allowing the tower's construction. In 2015, SL Green gave $220 million toward the building's construction, of which two-thirds of the money would be used for station redesign; this marked the largest private investment to date to the New York City Subway system. The upgrades are estimated to be completed by 2021.\n\nA new mezzanine built below the existing mezzanine will provide a direct connection from the subway station to the lower level of Grand Central Terminal and the future Long Island Rail Road concourse built as part of the East Side Access project; this will replace the current escalators from the existing mezzanine directly to the Flushing Line platforms, and is estimated to cost $75-150 million. \n\nAs part of the construction of the Second Avenue Subway, a transfer might be included between here and the 42nd Street station on that line. This would provide a transfer to the T train, which is proposed to serve Phase 3 of the Second Avenue Subway (which is currently not funded or scheduled). Currently, the transfer is under evaluation. The 900-foot long transfer passageway would run under 42nd Street between Second Avenue and Third Avenue, connecting to the IRT Flushing Line platform. Up to four properties might need to be required for the necessary ancillaries and emergency exits to built. The passageway would run under the northern side of 42nd Street, and the exit at the eastern end would be on the northwestern corner of that street and Second Avenue. Under a plan for the line in the 1990s, a spur to Grand Central Terminal was considered, which would have turned off Second Avenue at 44th Street as a way to divert riders from the , which run express on the Lexington Avenue Line. Service on this spur could not be as frequent as that on Lexington Avenue as there would not be enough capacity on Second Avenue, and as a result this plan was dropped.\n\nThe Grand Central shuttle platforms date from the original IRT subway, opened in 1904. The station was a four-track express stop with two island platforms between the local and express tracks.\n\nThe present configuration of the shuttle has three tracks coming into the station; the old southbound express track was removed. There is no connection between the northbound local track (track 4) and the other two. Island platforms are located between both pairs of tracks; the southernmost platform is wide, covering the area where the southbound express track (track 2) had been located. The two platforms connect directly, as tracks 3 and 4 terminate at bumper blocks. The south track (track 1) merges with the southbound local track of the Lexington Avenue Line. This merge is used to supply rolling stock to tracks 1 & 3 of the shuttle train (via a manual switch just west of station to track 3), and occasionally during special railfan excursions. The other three original tracks followed similar paths until the Lexington Avenue Line was extended north, turning this part of the line into a shuttle. \n\nIn 1913, as part of the Dual Contracts, the New York City Public Service Commission planned to split the original IRT system into three segments: two north-south lines, carrying through trains over the Lexington Avenue and Broadway–Seventh Avenue Lines, and a west-east shuttle under 42nd Street. This would form a roughly \"H\"-shaped system. A new platform for the shuttle would be built close to the current Lexington Avenue Line station. Since there was 400 feet between the eastern end of the original line's station and the new Lexington Avenue Line station, a new shuttle station was to be built near the Lexington Avenue Line station. The construction of the narrow island platform station required building two new trackways extending east under 42nd Street. Although the platform was constructed, it was never used. On August 1, 1918, the Dual Contracts' \"H system\" was put into service. The station was not ready in time, and therefore wooden flooring was temporarily laid over sections of the trackways at Times Square and Grand Central. The shuttle was heavily used, and the crowding conditions were so bad that the shuttle was ordered closed the next day.\n\nThe shuttle reopened September 27, 1918. Track 2 at the Grand Central station was covered over by a wooden platform. A \"New York Times\" columnist later said that former southbound express track 2 was still usable for the first few hours of the shuttle's operation, but the wooden platform was placed over that track later the same day to allow shuttles to use former northbound express track 3, due to high demand for the shuttles on the former local tracks, numbered 1 and 4.\n\nOn February 12, 1946 work began to double the width of the passageway connecting the shuttle platforms and the main mezzanine over the Lexington Avenue Line platforms. As part of the work the wooden passenger walkway, which had an average width of was replaced by a wide passageway with concrete flooring. This walkway had been \"temporary\" when it was put into place in August 1918. The new -long passageway covered most of the trackways used by downtown trains of the Original Subway prior to 1918. The iron railings along the planked walkway were removed. The project cost $45,800 and was intended to ease congestion. As part of the project, the upper passageway was moved to within fare control to allow passengers to go between the subway mezzanine and the entrance to Grand Central Terminal at the shuttle without paying a fare. This was accomplished by moving the turnstles at the eastern end of the passageway. In March, members of the Metallic Lathers Union Local 46 sought to halt construction on the project, which was 80 percent complete, as the union objected to having the work done by city employees who made less than union workers. The rebuilt passageway opened on March 18, 1946. Track 2 between this station and Times Square–42nd Street was removed in 1975.\n\nThis section of the complex is frequently used for movie shooting when it is closed. Notable scenes include a famous scene in the 1971 film \"The French Connection\", an episode of \"Fringe\", an episode of \"Person of Interest\", and an episode of \"30 Rock\" (filling in for Rockefeller Center Station).\n\nThe Grand Central shuttle platforms are actually wheelchair accessible as the mezzanine elevators are on the same level, but due to the platforms at Times Square being inaccessible, the 42nd Street Shuttle itself is not accessible. As part of the 2015–2019 MTA Capital Program, the 42nd Street Shuttle will become ADA accessible, and the shuttle will be reconfigured from three tracks to two tracks, and the trains will become six cars long. The whole project will cost $235.41 million. The cost of this part of the project is $30 million. The project is delayed, with construction set to start in December 2019 and be completed by September 2022.\n\nGrand Central–42nd Street is an express station on the IRT Lexington Avenue Line. It was also known as the Diagonal Station at time of construction, being oriented 45° from the street grid. It has two island platforms, four tracks, and includes a crossover and a crossunder. The columns and beams here are massive, in order to support part of Grand Central Terminal and the office towers next to it.\n\nOn one wall, there is a stylized steam locomotive mosaic. The northbound platform's side wall includes tile depicting a big passageway; the first room, as seen from the platform, has doors to a second room which appears to be a mechanical room. There is a correctly oriented compass rose inlaid on the floor of the mezzanine.\n\nThe southbound local track south of the station merges into the original downtown local track from the 42nd Street Shuttle. The track was part of the original four-track IRT subway. This track is now used for moving trains to and from the shuttle and for launching railfan trips from the shuttle tracks. This was the only track that is preserved.\n\nJust south of the station, the tracks split, with two on each side of the 1870 New York and Harlem Railroad Murray Hill Tunnel which is now used for automobile traffic on Park Avenue.\n\nThe Grand Central complex is home to the master tower which controls the entire Lexington Avenue Line, located south of the Lexington Avenue Line platforms.\n\nThe uptown tracks are about ten feet below the original grade at the point where they turn off. The old uptown express and local trackways that used to lead to the 42nd Street Shuttle are visible from the uptown local track. As the alignment of the original trackways curves into the old Grand Central station on the 42nd Street Shuttle, it passes through the rebuilt area for the proposed Grand Central station shuttle platform. From the public passageway, none of the original support columns and roof are visible, since they were removed in exactly this area to open the way for the unused shuttle station. The unused ramps leading from the 42nd Street Shuttle are still in place, just south of this station.\n\nIn 1955, the New York City Transit Authority had a scheme to make a lower level to the station, also of four tracks. It would tap into the express tracks beyond the station and be used as an intermediate terminal stop for certain services. There is room between the station and the Flushing Line for such a new level.\n\nGrand Central–42nd Street (signed as 42nd Street–Grand Central) on the Flushing Line has a single island platform and two tracks.\n\nOn March 2, 1950, a new type of stainless steel portable newsstand was installed at the Flushing Line platform at Grand Central. The newsstand was owned by the Union News Company.\n\nThe platforms at Grand Central and all other stations on the Flushing Line with the exception of Queensboro Plaza were extended in 1955–1956 to accommodate 11-car trains.\n\nThere is a large arched ceiling, making the platform similar to some stations in the London Underground, Paris Metro and systems in Eastern Europe (it is also similar to the Roosevelt Island, 168th Street (IRT platforms), and 181st Street stations in other parts of Manhattan). Along the platform are stairs and escalators to other lines and to a mezzanine and passageways under the Grand Central Terminal concourse. Exits and entrances are located at the center, west and east ends of the platform. There is an ADA-accessible elevator toward the west end. A newsstand/snack shop is located on the platform towards the east end.\n\nIn 1913, the Public Service Commission planned to connect the Flushing line to the 42nd Street shuttle, just west of the Grand Central station. Some ramp work was built for this purpose, then converted to a passenger walkway that has been in use since 1916. In addition, there are two remaining sections of the old trolley loop that remain intact and are accessible to MTA personnel via the southbound track approximately 200 feet beyond the station. The third is between the tracks and is a pump room. Parts of the loop are being converted into CBTC circuit breaker rooms.\n\nFor a while, free transfers were provided between the subway station and 42nd Street on the elevated IRT Third Avenue Line. This started on June 14, 1942, the day after the IRT Second Avenue Line, which provided access to Queensboro Plaza and the IRT Flushing Line, was closed. The Third Avenue Line closed on May 12, 1955, rendering the transfer obsolete.\n\nNajibullah Zazi and alleged co-conspirators were arrested in September 2009 as part of an al-Qaeda Islamist plan to engage in suicide bombings on trains in the New York City subway system, including near the Grand Central Station, and the Times Square-42nd Street-Port Authority Bus Terminal subway station during rush hour that month, and Zazi has pleaded guilty.\n\n\nnycsubway.org:\nVarious:\n\nGoogle Maps; Street View:\n\n"}
{"id": "6312442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6312442", "title": "Greater Downtown Miami", "text": "Greater Downtown Miami\n\nDowntown Miami is an urban city center, based around the Central Business District of Miami, Florida, United States. In addition to the central business district, the area also consists of the Brickell Financial District, Historic District, Government Center, Arts & Entertainment District and Park West. The neighborhood is divided by the Miami River and is bordered by Midtown (Edgewater and Wynwood) to the north, Biscayne Bay to the east, Civic Center and Overtown to the west, and Coconut Grove to the south.\n\nBrickell Avenue and Biscayne Boulevard are the main north-south roads, and Flagler Street is the main east-west road. The neighborhood is defined by the Miami Downtown Development Authority (DDA) as the -area east of Interstate 95 between the Rickenbacker Causeway to the south and Julia Tuttle Causeway to the north.\n\nLocally known as Downtown, the area is a cultural, financial, and commercial center of South Florida, tracing its present-day history back to the 19th century. In recent years, Downtown Miami has grown and physically expanded to become the fastest-growing area in Miami, with rapid increase in population and the greatest concentration of high-rises in the region. Greater Downtown is home to many major museums, parks, education centers, banks, company headquarters, courthouses, government offices, theaters, shops and many of the oldest buildings in the city.\n\nDowntown Miami is the historic heart of Miami, and along with Coconut Grove, is the oldest settled area of Miami, with early pioneer settlement dating to the early 19th century. Urban development began in the 1890s with the construction of the Florida East Coast Railway by Standard Oil industrialist Henry Flagler down to Miami at the insistence of Julia Tuttle. Flagler, along with developers such as William Brickell and George E. Merrick helped bring developer interest to the city with the construction of hotels, resorts, homes, and the extension of Flagler's rail line. Flagler Street, originating in Downtown, is a major east-west road in Miami named after the tycoon; the Julia Tuttle Causeway, crossing Biscayne Bay just north of Downtown in Edgewater, is named in honor of Tuttle.\n\nAs of 2009, there are approximately 71,000 year-round residents in Greater Downtown (including Downtown's Brickell, Park West, and Arts & Entertainment District neighborhoods), with close to 200,000 populating the Downtown area during the daytime, making Downtown Miami one of the most populous downtowns in the U.S. after New York City and Chicago. With recent mass construction of high-rise residential buildings and office towers, Downtown has experienced large growth, with new shops, bars, parks, and restaurants opening up, attracting many new residents. Along with Brickell, Downtown has grown from 40,000 residents in 2000, to over 70,000 in 2009, making it one of the fastest-growing areas in Florida. It was estimated in February 2010, that about 550 new residents move to the Downtown area every month. As of 2009, over 190,000 office employees work in Downtown and Brickell.\n\nDowntown is served by the Miami Metrorail at Historic Overtown/Lyric Theatre, Government Center, and Brickell stations, accessible from Broward and Palm Beach counties via Tri-Rail transfer station. The Metro connects to the Downtown Metromover, which encompasses 22 stations on the clockwise Inner (or Downtown) loop and counterclockwise Brickell and Omni branch loops. Government Center station is Downtown's main station and allows for transfers to all Metromover loops, Metrorail trains, and Metrobus lines at the Stephen P. Clark Government Center.\n\nDowntown Miami is centered on the Central business district (CBD), best known by local Miamians as simply \"Downtown\". Although distinct neighborhoods with different characters, the following neighborhoods are often labeled under the umbrella term of \"Downtown Miami\":\n\nThe Central business district (CBD), better known by locals as simply just \"Downtown\", is the historic center of Miami, and what is traditionally called \"Downtown\". Downtown is bound by NE 6th St to the north, Biscayne Bay to the east, the Miami River to the west and south. Within this area, is where the majority of Miami's historic buildings are, the main shopping street, Flagler Street, museums, libraries, offices, schools and colleges, as well as the vast majority of local, county, state and federal government offices and courthouses. Miami Historic District and Government Center are also located within the CBD.\n\nDowntown is directly served by the Miami Metrorail at: Government Center Station, and by 13 Metromover stations on the Downtown, Brickell, and Omni Loops.\n\nBrickell is south of the Miami River, and is a mixed upper-class residential neighborhood as well as Miami's major financial district along Brickell Avenue. The Shops at Mary Brickell Village and Simpson Park are located within Brickell. Brickell is directly served by the Miami Metrorail at: Brickell Station, and by five Metromover stations on the Brickell Loop.\n\nThe Arts & Entertainment District is an urban neighborhood with numerous hotels, and high-rise residential buildings. The neighborhood's former name \"Omni\" comes from the Omni International Mall on Biscayne Boulevard. The district borders Biscayne Bay the east, NE 2nd Ave to the west, NE 21st St to the north and I-395 to the south. Pace Park, Adrienne Arsht Center for the Performing Arts, and the (former) Miami Herald headquarters are located within the district. The Arts & Entertainment District is served by the Miami Metrorail at: Government Center Station, and by two Metromover stations on the Omni Loop.\n\nPark West is the neighborhood just west of Museum Park, east of NW 1st Ave, south of I-195, and north of NE 6th St. Park West was primarily known for its nightclubs, and in recent years has been the talk of much revitalization and project proposals for the revitalization of the area. By the end of 2015 most of the nightclubs along the former club row west of the MetroMover from the Freedom Tower station to the Eleventh Street Station have been demolished to make way for planned construction of Miami World Center.\nPark West is directly served by the Miami Metrorail at: Historic Overtown/Lyric Theatre Station, and by three Metromover stations on the Omni Loop.\n\nThe Miami Jewelry District is a sub-neighborhood of Downtown within the Central Business District historically known for its numerous jewelry stores, jewelers and gem dealers. It is where a variety of jeweled products are sold and is one of the three jewelry districts in the United States. It comprises four city blocks, bounded by North Miami Avenue, NE 2nd Avenue, East Flagler Street and NE 2nd St. Shoppers can find designer jewelry, precious stones, and gold and silver items at street level in various retail jewelry stores. The Jewelry District can be accessed by public transportation through the Metromover and Metrorail.\n\nAs of 2010, the population of Downtown Miami was 65,696 people, with a population density of 27,487 per square mile. In the 2010 US Census, the racial makeup of Downtown was 57.6% Hispanic of any race, 30.8% White (non-Hispanic), 7.2% Black, and 2.9% Asian. The zip codes for Brickell include 33129, 33130, and 33131. The area covers .\n\nIn 2000, Downtown had a population of 39,176 residents, with 15,333 households in 1990 with an average of 2.2 residents per household, 17,130 households in 2000 with a household average of 2.1, and 33,600 households in 2009 with a household average of 2.0 residents. By 2014, the population of Downtown is expected to grow to 85,000 with 42,400 households. The median household income was $29,396 in 2000 and $40,180 in 2009.\n\nThe zip codes for Downtown include 33128, 33130, 33131, and 33132. The area covers . As of 2000, there were 6,451 males and 4,792 females. The median age for males were 34.5 years old, while the median age for females were 35.8 years old. The average household size had 1.9 people, while the average family size had 2.8 members. The percentage of married-couple families (among all households) was 25.5%, while the percentage of married-couple families with children (among all households) was 8.5%, and the percentage of single-mother households (among all households) was 5.8%. 15.3% of the population was in correctional institutions. 1.6% of the population was in other group homes. The percentage of never-married males 15 years old and over was 27.6%, while the percentage of never-married females 15 years old and over was 13.9%.\n\nAs of 2000, the percentage of people that speak English not well or not at all made up 23.1% of the population. The percentage of residents born in Florida was 26.9%, the percentage of people born in another U.S. state was 25.0%, and the percentage of native residents but born outside the U.S. was 6.4%, while the percentage of foreign born residents was 41.7%.\n\n2009 Census projections indicate that the area's residential base has increased from 40,000 to 71,000 since 2000, with an expected Downtown population of 85,000 by 2014. As of 2006, 189,164 residents live in the immediate Downtown/Brickell area.\n\nPublic transportation in the Downtown area is used more than in any other part of Miami and is a vital part of Downtown life. Metrorail, Miami's heavy rail system, makes three stops in Downtown on both the green and orange lines at the Historic Overtown/Lyric Theatre Station, Government Center Station, and the Brickell Station. In addition to Metrorail, the Metromover train system runs three lines (the Downtown Loop, the Omni Loop, and the Brickell Loop) with 22 stations throughout Downtown. The Metromover is free and stations can be found at roughly every two blocks in Downtown and Brickell.\n\nDowntown Miami is served by Metrobus throughout the area, the Miami Metrorail, and the Metromover:\n\nMetrorail:\n\nMetromover:\n\nMetrorail has stops throughout Miami with connections to Miami International Airport, all Metrobus lines, Tri-Rail and Amtrak. The main bus station in Downtown is located next to the Arsht Center at the Adrienne Arsht Center Station.\n\nAs an urban and pedestrian-friendly area with an extensive public transit network, Downtown (along with Brickell, the Arts & Entertainment District, and South Beach) is one of the areas in Miami where a car-free lifestyle is commonplace. Many Downtown residents get around by foot, bicycle, Metromover or by taxi. The Metromover is a popular alternative to walking in the area, especially on rainy, hot or cold days, as the Metromover is free, and stations are located roughly every two blocks throughout the area.\n\nRecently, the City of Miami, along with the Downtown Development Authority, has begun bicycle initiaves promoting citywide bike parking and bike lanes, that have made bicycling much more popular for residents. Bike lanes and bike sharrows are currently planned for the majority of Downtown streets to be painted by the end of 2010. The Venetian Causeway is a popular bicycle commuter route that connects South Beach to Downtown. The Rickenbacker Causeway is very popular on weekends for recreational bicyclists, and often, bicycles can outnumber cars on the causeway.\n\nIn the 2025 and 2030 long range transportation plans, Miami's commuter rail system, Tri-Rail, has envisioned moving to or adding service on the Florida East Coast Railway (FEC) corridor, which runs along the region's densest neighborhoods, parallel to Biscayne Boulevard in Miami, and Federal Highway in Broward and Palm Beach counties.\n\nTri-Rail service on the FEC line would bring Tri-Rail to Downtown's transit hub, Government Center Station, connecting Downtown directly to Midtown Miami/Miami Design District, Upper East Side/Miami Shores, North Miami, North Miami Beach/Aventura, Downtown Hollywood, and Downtown Fort Lauderdale. Currently, rail commuters must transfer onto the Metrorail in Hialeah to get to Downtown. Miami's Downtown Development Authority along with Miami-area politicians are actively lobbying to bring Tri-Rail to the city core.\n\nTaxis are popular in Downtown, especially from Downtown to South Beach, Design District or to Coconut Grove. Since many Downtown residents choose to not have cars, taxis are also popular for rides within Downtown neighborhoods, especially after midnight when the Metromover stops running. Taxis can be hailed on the street, or phoned.\n\nDowntown is home to many companies, corporations and organizations. Downtown has about of office space, and is the central financial and business hub of South Florida. Some private companies with headquarters in Downtown are Akerman Senterfitt, Arquitectonica, Bilzin Sumberg, Espírito Santo Financial Group, Florida Justice Institute, Greenberg Traurig, Holland & Knight, Limehouse Software, Macy's Florida, \"Miami Herald\", \"Miami Today\", Shutts & Bowen, Terremark Worldwide, Vector Group, World Property Channel, and Zyscovich Architects. Sanford Group Company and Sanford Fiduciary Investor Services, Inc., and LTU International had headquarters in Downtown.\n\nPublic organizations with their main offices in Downtown include, the central offices of the Beacon Council, the Downtown Development Authority, Miami-Dade County government, Miami-Dade County Public Schools, Miami Police Department, and Miami-Dade Parks and Recreation, as well as numerous City of Miami departments despite city hall's location in Coconut Grove.\n\nSeveral countries have consulates based in Downtown, most of which are located along Biscayne Boulevard and Brickell Avenue. These include:\n\nDowntown is also home to many international chambers of commerce, these include:\n\nDowntown has three U.S. historic districts. The Downtown Miami Commercial Historic District, the Downtown Miami Historic District, and the Lummus Park Historic District.\n\nThe Downtown Miami Historic District comprises in the heart of Downtown with over 60 buildings within its jurisdiction. Many of the buildings within the area are of the Moderne style and Classical Revival style with uses for government, residential, and commercial. Periods of significance within this area are from 1900 to 1924, 1925 to 1949, and 1950 to 1974. The Downtown Miami Commercial Historic District was designated a historic district in 1988 and comprises 20 buildings on the east side of Downtown with 19th and early 20th-century revival styles.\n\nThe Lummus Park Historic District is west of Downtown in the neighborhood of Lummus Park. It is west of I-95 surrounding Lummus Park along the Miami River. The historic district was designated historic in 1988 and then expanded in 2006. The area is large with 43 different buildings mostly owned by private entities and the local government. Prominent styles include late 19th and early 20th-century revival styles, Art Deco, and Bungalow style, with prominent periods of 1900–1924 and 1925–1949.\n\nDowntown's largest and most popular parks are Bayfront Park, Museum Park, and Pace Park. Bayfront Park is host to the free DWTWN Concert Series, put on weekly in the park's amphitheater, as well as various other annual events such as the Orange Drop for New Year's, Bike Miami, and the \"America's Birthday Bash at Bayfront Park\" for Independence Day. Bayfront Park hosts many large outdoor concerts such as Warped Tour and Ultra Music Festival. Formerly Bicentennial Park, Museum Park has been redone, and is now the site for new buildings for the Miami Art Museum and the Miami Science Museum.\n\nOther parks in the Downtown area include:\n\nAs the county seat of Miami-Dade County, Downtown is home to the central offices and departments of the Miami-Dade County government, mainly located in the Government Center area. The Stephen P. Clark Government Center is the central headquarters of Miami-Dade government with the offices of the Miami-Dade Mayor. Although city hall for the City of Miami is in Coconut Grove, many offices of Miami's city government are in Downtown, including the city's Planning Department. The Miami Police Department also has its central offices in Downtown.\n\nDowntown is home to many city, county, state, and federal courthouses, jails, judge offices, and law firms. Some of the courthouses in Downtown are the Dade County Family Court, U.S. Court of Appeals Judge, U.S. District Court Clerk, Miami-Dade County Courthouse, Federal Courthouse, U.S. Magistrate Judge, City of Miami courthouses and many others.\n\nThe United States Postal Service operates two post offices in Downtown. They are the Brickell Post Office and the Flagler Miami Post Office. The Federal Detention Center, Miami, operated by the Federal Bureau of Prisons, is located in Downtown.\n\nThe City of Miami Fire and Rescue Department operates 4 of its 14 fire stations within the Downtown area. Each are listed below.\n\nThe average apartment sale price was $347,729 in 2010, up 15% from 2009, with the average apartment price at $300 per square foot. During the Miami building boom of the first decade of the 21st century, 23,628 condominium and apartments were built in numerous high-rise towers that quickly transformed the city. Over 85% of these apartments are now occupied as of early 2011. It is estimated that about 550 new residents move to Downtown every month. Renters make up 56% of the residents in Downtown.\n\nIn July 2011, Downtown's office vacancy rate was reported at 21% dropping from a high of 26% in mid-2010. Downtown also reported an average commercial asking rate of $36.33, making it the eighth-highest in the nation after Manhattan, Washington DC, Fairfield County, Connecticut, San Francisco, and Boston.\n\nDowntown has over 6,000 hotel rooms in numerous hotels. Downtown has Miami's largest concentration of hotel rooms, and is the city's hub for business travellers. Many of these hotels are geared for business travellers, mostly along Brickell Avenue, some for luxury leisure stays, and others as bargain tourist hotels. Some of Downtown's largest hotels are:\n\nHistorically, Flagler Street has been Downtown's major shopping street dating back to the 19th century. Today, it is still Downtown's major shopping street, with Florida's flagship Macy's (formerly Burdines) on Flagler Street and Miami Avenue from 1912 to 2018, as well as Miami's own local department stores: La Época, on Flagler and SE 2nd Av; Alberto Cortes, on Flagler and SE 3rd Av. Flagler Street is also home to many well-known and established jewelers, many of whom have been in Downtown since the early 20th century (i.e.: Morays Jewelers, founded in 1900). This area is called the Miami Jewelry District and comprises four Downtown blocks from Miami Avenue to SE 2nd Av on Flagler Street and NE 1st St.\n\nAfter many years of decay, recently, much focus has been placed on revitalizing Flagler Street to its former grandeur. In recent years, a renewed investment interest has been placed on Flagler Street, and many new restaurants and stores have opened up, new landscaping and pavers have been placed, as well as enforced security and tourist guides. Three new pocket parks opened on Flagler St in 2009, Paul S. Walker Park, Robert F. Clark Plaza, and the Joan Lehman Sculpture Plaza. These new parks have brought more green space, benches, art, and rest areas to the street.\n\nBesides Flagler Street, Downtown has two other major shopping areas, Bayside Marketplace and Mary Brickell Village in Brickell. Bayside Marketplace was built in 1987, and is one of Miami's most visited tourist attractions averaging over 15 million visitors a year. It is an outdoor shopping mall overlooking Biscayne Bay at Bayfront Park. Bayside Marketplace has many national retail chains, as well as local Miami stores. Mary Brickell Village is on Miami Avenue and SE 10th Street in Brickell. Mary Brickell Village is a major nightlife area and has many of Miami's upscale bars and restaurants that stretch along Miami Avenue from around SE 6th Street to Broadway (SE 15th Road).\n\nMiami-Dade County Public Schools operates area public schools:\n\n\n\nDowntown children are zoned based on the neighborhood they live in within Downtown, roughly split into Brickell, Central Business District (CBD), and Arts & Entertainment District/Edgewater.\n\nPlans are currently underway for a 1,700-student preparatory school in Brickell at 1742 SW 2nd Avenue, named \"Brickell Preparatory Academy\". Other private schools in Downtown are:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53298585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53298585", "title": "Henry Clapcott", "text": "Henry Clapcott\n\nHenry Clapcott (28 November 1830 – 19 September 1897) was a New Zealand businessman and politician.\n\nClapcott was born on 28 November and baptised 22 December 1830 in Tarrant Keyneston, Dorset, England, the fourth son of George Bunter Clapcott and Eliza Bestland. After attending Westminster School in London,he was admitted to Trinity College, Cambridge in 1849, graduating with a B.A. in 1853. He trained for the church. He travelled to Otago, New Zealand, on the \"Carnatic\" in 1853 with his brother, Frederick Bunter Clapcott. At first, he was farming in the Popotunoa Gorge near Clinton.\n\nIn the week preceding 19 July 1862, Clapcott had been appointed as a \"Justice of the Peace\" for the Otago Province.\nOn 10 December 1864 it was announced that Clapcott had become one of the trustees of the \"Dunedin Savings Bank\" along with William Mason, after the resignation of T. S. Forsaith and the leaving of the country by George Duncan.\n\nClapcott was elected to the Otago Provincial Council on 14 April 1864 in the Wakatipu electorate. A month later on 17 May, he joined the Otago Executive Council as their treasurer, and remained in that role until 18 April 1865 when the executive led by James Paterson resigned over a lost no-confidence vote. He originally had his name forward as a candidate at the April 1865 Bruce parliamentary by-election, but supporters of him withdrew his nomination three days before the election. Clapcott was briefly a candidate for the August 1865 Otago superintendency election, but retired prior to the election in favour of Thomas Dick, who was eventually the successful candidate. Clapcott resigned from the provincial council on 16 August 1865; it was rumoured that this was brought about by a mixture of personal affairs, and the mocking he received while standing for the role as superintendent. He afterwards withdrew from public life.\n\nClapcott married Mary Jane Power in 1858. She gave birth to a son on 27 October 1859, but she died a week later on 4 November and on 13 November, the baby died, too. \n\nOn 18 January 1862, he married Annie Harriet Bedborough at Dunedin. In July 1874, they lost a son aged 17 months. They had a daughter on 21 August 1875. Clapcott died, aged 67, on 19 September 1897 in Newington, Dunedin, which is today part of the suburb of Maori Hill. His wife died five weeks later of Bright's disease. The family members share a grave at the Dunedin Southern Cemetery.\n"}
{"id": "51289992", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51289992", "title": "ISO 10014", "text": "ISO 10014\n\nISO 10014:2006 Quality management – Guidelines for realizing financial and economic benefits with ISO 9001:2000 is an ISO standard intended to provide \"clear guidelines on achieving financial and economic benefits\" from the application of the ISO 9000 quality management principles.\n\nAccording to the ISO:\n\nA predecessor standard, \"PD ISO/TR 10014:1998 Guidelines for managing the economics of quality\" was withdrawn with the adoption of ISO 10014:2006.\n"}
{"id": "230946", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=230946", "title": "Idea–expression divide", "text": "Idea–expression divide\n\nThe idea–expression divide or idea–expression dichotomy limits the scope of copyright protection by differentiating an idea from the expression or manifestation of that idea.\n\nThe European Union Software Directive, Article 1.2, for example, expressly excludes from copyright ideas and principles that underlie any element of a computer program, including those that underlie its interfaces. As stated by the European Court of Justice in SAS Institute Inc. v World Programming Ltd., \"to accept that the functionality of a computer program can be protected by copyright would amount to making it possible to monopolise ideas, to the detriment of technological progress and industrial development.\"\n\nIn the United States the 1879 opinion of the Supreme Court in the case of \"Baker v. Selden\" elaborated this doctrine, holding that, while exclusive rights to the \"useful arts\" (in this case bookkeeping) described in a book might be available by patent, only the description itself was protectable by copyright. In \"Harper & Row Publishers, Inc. v. Nation Enters.\", 471 U.S. 539, 556 (1985), the Supreme Court stated that \"copyright's idea/expression dichotomy 'strike[s] a definitional balance between the First Amendment and the Copyright Act by permitting free communication of facts while still protecting an author's expression.'\" (internal citation omitted). Additionally, in \"Mazer v. Stein\", 347 U.S. 201, 217 (1954), the Supreme Court stated \"Unlike a patent, a copyright gives no exclusive right to the art disclosed; protection is given only to the expression of the idea—not the idea itself.\"\n\nSome of the criticism directed at \"intellectual property\" is based on the confusion between patents, which may confer proprietary rights in relation to general ideas and concepts \"per se\" when construed as methods, and copyrights, which cannot confer such rights.\nAn adventure novel provides an illustration of the concept. Copyright may subsist in the work as a whole, in the particular story or characters involved, or in any artwork contained in the book, but generally not in the idea or genre of the story. Copyright, therefore, may not subsist in the idea of a man venturing out on a quest, but may subsist in a particular story that follows that pattern. Similarly, if the methods or processes described in a work are patentable, they may be the subject of various patent claims, which may or may not be broad enough to cover other methods or processes based on the same idea. Arthur C. Clarke, for example, sufficiently described the concept of a communications satellite (a geostationary satellite used as a telecommunications relay) in a 1945 paper that it was not considered patentable in 1954 when it was developed (independently) at Bell Labs.\n\nIn the English decision of \"Donoghue v. Allied Newspapers Limited\" (1938) Ch 106, the court illustrated the concept by stating that \"the person who has clothed the idea in form, whether by means of a picture, a play or a book\" owns the copyright. In the Australian decision of \"Victoria Park Racing and Recreation Grounds Co. Ltd v. Taylor\" (1937) 58 CLR 479 at 498, Latham CJ used the analogy of reporting a person's fall from a bus: the first person to do so could not use the law of copyright to stop other people from announcing this fact.\n\nSome courts have recognized that particular ideas can be expressed effectively only by using certain elements or background. The French name for this doctrine is \"Scènes à faire\". Therefore, even the expression in these circumstances is unprotected, or extremely limited to verbatim copying only. This is true in the United Kingdom and most Commonwealth countries.\n\nIn the United States it is recognized that certain background elements are universal or at least commonplace in some types of work. For example, in \"Walker v. Time Life Films, Inc.\", 784 F.2d 44 (2d Cir. 1986), the Second Circuit said that in a film about cops in the South Bronx it was inevitable that the scenery would include drunks, stripped cars, prostitutes, and rats. In \"Gates Rubber Co. v. Bando Chemical Industries, Ltd.\", 9 F.3d 823 (10th Cir. 1993), the Tenth Circuit held that hardware standards and mechanical specifications, software standards and compatibility requirements, computer manufacturer design standards, target industry practices and demands, and computer industry programming practices were unprotectable scenes a faire for computer programs. The principle must have a limit, however, so that something is outside the \"scènes à faire\" doctrine for South Bronx movies. Perhaps, cockroaches, gangs, and muggings are also part of the South Bronx \"scène à faire\", but further similarity such as the film having as characters \"a slumlord with a heart of gold and a policeman who is a Zen Buddhist and lives in a garage surely goes beyond the South Bronx \"scène à faire\". There must be some expression possible even in a cliche-ridden genre.\"\n\nA broader but related concept is the merger doctrine. Some ideas can be expressed intelligibly only in one or a limited number of ways. The rules of a game provide an example. In such cases the expression merges with the idea and is therefore not protected.\n\nUnited States courts are divided on whether merger constitutes a defense to infringement or prevents copyrightability in the first place, but it is often pleaded as an affirmative defense to copyright infringement.\n\nIn August 2013, Robin Thicke, Pharrell Williams, and T.I. had a lawsuit filed against them by the family and estate of Marvin Gaye regarding their song \"Blurred Lines\"; the family had argued that \"Blurred Lines\" had copied the \"feel\" and \"sound\" of the Marvin Gaye song \"Got to Give It Up\" (which Thicke cited as an influence on the song), contradicting the idea-expression divide. In March 2015, a court ruled that, despite not sharing the same chords, lyrics, or other copyrightable elements, \"Blurred Lines\" had infringed on the copyrights of \"Got to Give It Up\" by copying its feel and sound.\n\n"}
{"id": "26308035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26308035", "title": "Intelligent Enterprise (magazine)", "text": "Intelligent Enterprise (magazine)\n\nIntelligent Enterprise (CMP Media, LLC) was the title of a magazine for business and IT executives who develop and manage their companies' strategic enterprise systems. This magazine expanded on earlier intelligent enterprise concepts, focusing on analytical software tools and underlying technologies for organizing both intellectual assets and transactional data. The print edition ended in February 2007 and the title is used now as a website. Doug Henschen is editor in chief and Antone Gonsalves is web editor. \n\nFounded at Miller Freeman, Inc., (San Francisco) in 1998, by David M. Kalman, the magazine merged two titles, Database Programming and Design magazine and DBMS magazine. Founding editor/editorial director was David Stodder, who left the magazine in early 2007, with founding editor-in-chief Justin Kestelyn, Senior Editor Jeanette Burriesci, and Design Director Jim Shinnick. In 1999, Miller Freeman merged into CMP Media (Manhasset, New York), a division of United Business Media plc.\n\n\"Intelligent Enterprise\" ceased publication in February 2007.\n\n"}
{"id": "60358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=60358", "title": "Internal rate of return", "text": "Internal rate of return\n\nThe internal rate of return (IRR) is a measure of an investment’s rate of return. The term \"internal\" refers to the fact \nthat the internal rate excludes external factors, such as inflation, the cost of capital, or various financial risks.\n\nIt is also called the discounted cash flow rate of return (DCFROR).\n\nIn the context of savings and loans, the IRR is also called the effective interest rate.\n\nThe internal rate of return on an investment or project is the \"annualized effective compounded return rate\" or rate of return that sets the net present value of all cash flows (both positive and negative) from the investment equal to zero. Equivalently, it is the discount rate at which the net present value of future cash flows is equal to the initial investment, and it is also the discount rate at which the total present value of costs (negative cash flows) equals the total present value of the benefits (positive cash flows).\n\nSpeaking intuitively, IRR is designed to account for the time preference of money and investments. A given return on investment received at a given time is worth more than the same return received at a later time, so the latter would yield a lower IRR than the former, if all other factors are equal. A fixed income investment in which money is deposited once, interest on this deposit is paid to the investor at a specified interest rate every time period, and the original deposit neither increases nor decreases, would have an IRR equal to the specified interest rate. An investment which has the same total returns as the preceding investment, but delays returns for one or more time periods, would have a lower IRR.\n\nCorporations use IRR in capital budgeting to compare the profitability of capital projects in terms of the rate of return. For example, a corporation will compare an investment in a new plant versus an extension of an existing plant based on the IRR of each project. To maximize returns, the higher a project's IRR, the more desirable it is to undertake the project. If all projects require the same amount of up-front investment, the project with the highest IRR would be considered the best and undertaken first.\n\nThe internal rate of return is an indicator of the profitability, efficiency, quality, or yield of an investment. This is in contrast with the net present value, which is an indicator of the net value or magnitude added by making an investment.\n\nApplying the internal rate of return method to maximize the value of the firm, any investment would be accepted, if its profitability, as measured by the internal rate of return, is greater than a minimum acceptable rate of return. The appropriate minimum rate to maximize the value added to the firm is the cost of capital, i.e. the internal rate of return of a new capital project needs to be higher than the company's cost of capital. This is because an investment with an internal rate of return which exceeds the cost of capital has a positive net present value.\n\nHowever, the selection of investments may be subject to budget constraints, or they may be mutually exclusive competing projects, such as a choice between or the capacity or ability to manage more projects may be practically limited. In the example cited above, of a corporation comparing an investment in a new plant versus an extension of an existing plant, there may be reasons the company would not engage in both projects.\n\nIRR is also used to calculate yield to maturity and yield to call.\n\nBoth the internal rate of return and the net present value can be applied to liabilities as well as investments. For a liability, a lower internal rate of return is preferable to a higher one.\n\nCorporations use internal rate of return to evaluate share issues and stock buyback programs. A share repurchase proceeds if returning capital to shareholders has a higher internal rate of return than candidate capital investment projects or acquisition projects at current market prices. Funding new projects by raising new debt may also involve measuring the cost of the new debt in terms of the yield to maturity (internal rate of return).\n\nIRR is also used for private equity, from the limited partners' perspective, as a measure of the general partner's performance as investment manager. This is because it is the general partner who controls the cash flows, including the limited partners' draw-downs of committed capital.\n\nGiven a collection of pairs (time, cash flow) involved in a project, the internal rate of return follows from the net present value as a function of the rate of return. A rate of return for which this function being zero is the internal rate of return.\n\nGiven the (period, cash flow) pairs (formula_1, formula_2) where formula_1 is a non-negative integer, the total number of periods formula_4, and the formula_5, (net present value); the IRR is given by formula_6 in:\n\nNote that in this formula, formula_8 (≤0) is the initial investment at the start of the project. The period formula_1 is usually given in years, but the calculation may be made simpler if formula_6 is calculated using the period in which the majority of the problem is defined (e.g., using months if most of the cash flows occur at monthly intervals) and converted to a yearly period thereafter.\n\nAny fixed time can be used in place of the present (e.g., the end of one interval of an annuity); the value obtained is zero if and only if the NPV is zero.\n\nIn the case that the cash flows are random variables, such as in the case of a life annuity, the expected values are put into the above formula.\n\nOften, the value of formula_6 that satisfies the above equation cannot be found analytically. In this case, numerical methods or graphical methods must be used.\n\nIf an investment may be given by the sequence of cash flows\n\nthen the IRR formula_6 is given by\n\nIn this case, the answer is 5.96% (in the calculation, that is, r = .0596).\n\nSince the above is a manifestation of the general problem of finding the roots of the equation formula_14, there are many numerical methods that can be used to estimate formula_6. For example, using the secant method, formula_6 is given by\n\nwhere formula_18 is considered the formula_1 approximation of the IRR.\n\nThis formula_6 can be found to an arbitrary degree of accuracy. Different accounting packages may provide functions for different accuracy levels.\n\nThe convergence behaviour of by the following:\n\nHaving formula_28 when formula_29 or formula_30 when formula_31 may speed up convergence of formula_18 to formula_6.\n\nOf particular interest is the case where the stream of payments consists of a single outflow, followed by multiple inflows occurring at equal periods. In the above notation, this corresponds to:\n\nIn this case the NPV of the payment stream is a convex, strictly decreasing function of interest rate. There is always a single unique solution for IRR.\n\nGiven two estimates formula_35 and formula_36 for IRR, the secant method equation (see above) with formula_37 always produces an improved estimate formula_38. This is sometimes referred to as the Hit and Trial (or Trial and Error) method. More accurate interpolation formulas can also be obtained: for instance the secant formula with correction\n\n(which is most accurate when formula_40) has been shown to be almost 10 times more accurate than the secant formula for a wide range of interest rates and initial guesses. For example, using the stream of payments {−4000, 1200, 1410, 1875, 1050} and initial guesses formula_41 and formula_42 the secant formula with correction gives an IRR estimate of 14.2% (0.7% error) as compared to IRR = 13.2% (7% error) from the secant method.\n\nIf applied iteratively, either the secant method or the improved formula always converges to the correct solution.\n\nBoth the secant method and the improved formula rely on initial guesses for IRR. The following initial guesses may be used:\n\nwhere\n\nHere, formula_47 refers to the NPV of the inflows only (that is, set formula_48 and compute NPV).\n\nA cash flow formula_49 may occur at any time formula_50 years after the beginning of the project. formula_50 may not be a whole number. The cash flow should still be discounted by a factor formula_52.\n\nAs a tool applied to making an investment decision, to decide whether a project adds value or not, comparing the IRR of a single project with the required rate of return, in isolation from any other projects, is equivalent to the NPV method. If the appropriate IRR (if such can be found correctly) is greater than the required rate of return, then using the required rate of return to discount cash flows to their present value, the NPV of that project will be positive, and vice versa. However, using IRR to sort projects in order of preference does not result in the same order as using NPV.\n\nOne possible investment objective is to maximize the total net present value of projects.\n\nWhen the objective is to maximize total value, the calculated IRR should not be used to choose between mutually exclusive projects. In cases where one project has a higher initial investment than a second mutually exclusive project, the first project may have a lower IRR (expected return), but a higher NPV (increase in shareholders' wealth) and should thus be accepted over the second project (assuming no capital constraints).\n\nWhen the objective is to maximize total value, IRR should not be used to compare projects of different duration. For example, the net present value added by a project with longer duration but lower IRR could be greater than that of a project of similar size, in terms of total net cash flows, but with shorter duration and higher IRR.\n\nDespite a strong academic preference for NPV, surveys indicate that executives prefer IRR over NPV. Apparently, managers find it easier to compare investments of different sizes in terms of percentage rates of return than by dollars of NPV. However, NPV remains the \"more accurate\" reflection of value to the business. IRR, as a measure of investment efficiency may give better insights in capital constrained situations. However, when comparing mutually exclusive projects, NPV is the appropriate measure.\n\nMaximizing total value is not the only conceivable possible investment objective. An alternative objective would for example be to maximize long-term return. Such an objective would rationally lead to accepting first those new projects within the capital budget which have the highest IRR, because adding such projects would tend to maximize overall long-term return.\n\nTo see this, consider two investors, Max Value and Max Return. Max Value wishes her net worth to grow as large as possible, and will invest every last cent available to achieve this, whereas Max Return wants to maximize his rate of return over the long term, and would prefer to choose projects with smaller capital outlay but higher returns. Max Value and Max Return can each raise \"up to\" 100,000 US dollars from their bank at an annual interest rate of 10 percent paid at the end of the year.\n\nInvestors Max Value and Max Return are presented with two possible projects to invest in, called Big-Is-Best and Small-Is-Beautiful. Big-Is-Best requires a capital investment of 100,000 US dollars today, and the lucky investor will be repaid 132,000 US dollars in a year's time. Small-Is-Beautiful only requires 10,000 US dollars capital to be invested today, and will repay the investor 13,750 US dollars in a year's time.\n\nThe cost of capital for both investors is 10 percent.\n\nBoth Big-Is-Best and Small-Is-Beautiful have positive NPVs:\nand the IRR of each is (of course) greater than the cost of capital:\nso the IRR of Big-Is-Best is 32 percent, and\nso the IRR of Small-Is-Beautiful is 37.5 percent.\n\nBoth investments would be acceptable to both investors, but the twist in the tale is that these are mutually exclusive projects for both investors, because their capital budget is limited to 100,000 US dollars. How will the investors choose rationally between the two?\n\nThe happy outcome is that Max Value chooses Big-Is-Best, which has the higher NPV of 20,000 US dollars, over Small-Is-Beautiful, which only has a modest NPV of 2,500, whereas Max Return chooses Small-Is-Beautiful, for its superior 37.5 percent return, over the attractive (but not as attractive) return of 32 percent offered on Big-Is-Best. So there is no squabbling of who gets which project, they are each happy to choose different projects.\n\nHow can this be rational for both investors? The answer lies in the fact that the investors do not have to invest the full 100,000 US dollars. Max Return is content to invest only 10,000 US dollars for now. After all, Max Return may rationalize the outcome by thinking that maybe tomorrow there will be new opportunities available to invest the remaining 90,000 US dollars the bank is willing to lend Max Return, at even higher IRRs. Even if only seven more projects come along which are identical to Small-Is-Beautiful, Max Return would be able to match the NPV of Big-Is-Best, on a total investment of only 80,000 US dollars, with 20,000 US dollars left in the budget to spare for truly unmissable opportunities. Max Value is also happy, because she has filled her capital budget straight away, and decides she can take the rest of the year off investing.\n\nWhen the sign of the cash flows changes more than once, for example when positive cash flows are followed by negative ones and then by positive ones (+ + − − − +), the IRR may have multiple real values. In a series of cash flows like (−10, 21, −11), one initially invests money, so a high rate of return is best, but then receives more than one possesses, so then one owes money, so now a low rate of return is best. In this case, it is not even clear whether a high or a low IRR is better.\n\nThere may even be multiple real IRRs for a single project, like in the example 0% as well as 10%. Examples of this type of project are strip mines and nuclear power plants, where there is usually a large cash outflow at the end of the project.\n\nThe IRR satisfies a polynomial equation. Sturm's theorem can be used to determine if that equation has a unique real solution. In general the IRR equation cannot be solved analytically but only by iteration.\n\nWith multiple internal rates of return, the IRR approach can still be interpreted in a way that is consistent with the present value approach if the underlying investment stream is correctly identified as net investment or net borrowing.\n\nSee for a way of identifying the relevant IRR from a set of multiple IRR solutions.\n\nModified Internal Rate of Return (MIRR) considers cost of capital, and is intended to provide a better indication of a project's probable return. It applies a discount rate for borrowing cash, and the IRR is calculated for the investment cash flows. This applies in real life for example when a customer makes a deposit before a specific machine is built.\n\nWhen a project has multiple IRRs it may be more convenient to compute the IRR of the project with the benefits reinvested. Accordingly, MIRR is used, which has an assumed reinvestment rate, usually equal to the project's cost of capital.\n\nMagni (2010) introduced a new approach, named AIRR approach, based on the intuitive notion of mean, that solves the problems of the IRR. However, the above-mentioned difficulties are only some of the many flaws incurred by the IRR. Magni (2013) provided a detailed list of 18 flaws of the IRR and showed how the AIRR approach does not incur the IRR problems.\nTraditional IRR calculations only consider the financial aspects of a decision but does not not fully \"capture the short- or long-term importance, value, or risks associated with natural and social capital\" because it does not account for the environmental, social and governance performance of an organization. Without a metric for measuring the short and long term environmental, social and governance performance of a firm, decision makers are planning for the future without considering the extent of the impacts associated with their decisions.\n\nMathematically, the value of the investment is assumed to undergo exponential growth or decay according to some rate of return (any value greater than −100%), with discontinuities for cash flows, and the IRR of a series of cash flows is defined as any rate of return that results in a net present value of zero (or equivalently, a rate of return that results in the correct value of zero after the last cash flow).\n\nThus, internal rate(s) of return follow from the net present value as a function of the rate of return. This function is continuous. Towards a rate of return of −100% the net present value approaches infinity with the sign of the last cash flow, and towards a rate of return of positive infinity the net present value approaches the first cash flow (the one at the present). Therefore, if the first and last cash flow have a different sign there exists an internal rate of return. Examples of time series without an IRR:\n\n\nIn the case of a series of exclusively negative cash flows followed by a series of exclusively positive ones, the resulting function of the rate of return is continuous and monotonically decreasing from positive infinity (when the rate of return approaches -100%) to the value of the first cash flow (when the rate of return approaches infinity), so there is a unique rate of return for which it is zero. Hence, the IRR is also unique (and equal). Although the NPV-function itself is not necessarily monotonically decreasing on its whole domain, it \"is\" at the IRR.\n\nSimilarly, in the case of a series of exclusively positive cash flows followed by a series of exclusively negative ones the IRR is also unique.\n\nFinally, by Descartes' rule of signs, the number of internal rates of return can never be more than the number of changes in sign of cash flow.\n\nIt is often stated that IRR assumes reinvestment of all cash flows until the very end of the project. This assertion has been a matter of debate in the literature.\n\nSources stating that there is such a hidden assumption include those cited below. Sources arguing that there is no IRR reinvestment assumption include\n\nThe IRR method measures return in the presence of external cash flows. The assumptions of users of the method are independent of the IRR method itself. When comparing investments, making a naive implicit assumption that cash flows are reinvested at the same IRR, would tend to lead to false conclusions. If cash flows received are not reinvested at the same rate as the IRR, a project with a relatively short duration and a high IRR does not necessarily add more value over a longer time span than another project with a longer duration and a lower IRR. The Modified Internal Rate of Return (MIRR) addresses this issue by including a second investment at a potentially different rate of return, to calculate a portfolio return without external cash flows over the life of the project. However, for capital budgeting, when the objective is to maximize value, finance theory holds that NPV using the firm's cost of capital is a superior metric.\n\nThe IRR can be used to measure the money-weighted performance of financial investments such as an\nindividual investor's brokerage account. For this scenario, an \nequivalent, \nmore intuitive definition of the IRR is, \"The IRR is the annual interest rate of the fixed rate account (like a somewhat idealized savings account)\nwhich, when subjected to the same deposits and withdrawals as the actual investment, has the same ending balance as the actual investment.\" \nThis fixed rate account is also called the \"replicating fixed rate account\" for the investment. There are examples where \nthe replicating fixed rate account encounters negative balances despite the fact that the actual investment did not. \nIn those cases, the IRR calculation assumes that the same interest rate that is paid on positive balances is charged on \nnegative balances. It has been shown that this way of charging interest is the root cause of the IRR's multiple solutions \nproblem. If the model is modified so that, as is the case in real life, an externally supplied cost of borrowing \n(possibly varying over time) is charged on negative balances, the multiple solutions issue \ndisappears. The resulting rate is \ncalled the \"fixed rate equivalent\" (\"FREQ\").\n\nIn the context of investment performance measurement, there is sometimes ambiguity in terminology between the periodic rate of return, such as the internal rate of return as defined above, and a holding period return. The term \"internal rate of return\" or \"IRR\" or \"Since Inception Internal Rate of Return (SI-IRR)\" is in some contexts used to refer to the unannualized return over the period, particularly for periods of less than a year.\n\nTo address the lack of integration of the short and long term importance, value and risks associated with natural and social capital into the traditional IRR calculation, companies are valuing their environmental, social and governance (ESG) performance through an Integrated Management approach to reporting that expands IRR to Integrated Rate of Return. This allows companies to value their investments not just for their financial return but also the long term environmental and social return of their investments. By highlighting environmental, social and governance performance in reporting, decision makers have the opportunity to identify new areas for value creation that are not revealed through traditional financial reporting. The social cost of carbon is one value that can be incorporated into Integrated Rate of Return calculations to encompass the damage to society from greenhouse gas emissions that result from an investment. This is an integrated approach to reporting that supports Integrated Bottom Line (IBL) decision making, which takes triple bottom line(TBL) a step further and combines financial, environmental and social performance reporting into one balance sheet. This approach provides decision makers with the insight to identify opportunities for value creation that promote growth and change within an organization.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7140311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7140311", "title": "International Fisher effect", "text": "International Fisher effect\n\nThe international Fisher effect (sometimes referred to as Fisher's open hypothesis) is a hypothesis in international finance that suggests differences in nominal interest rates reflect expected changes in the spot exchange rate between countries. The hypothesis specifically states that a spot exchange rate is expected to change equally in the opposite direction of the interest rate differential; thus, the currency of the country with the higher nominal interest rate is expected to depreciate against the currency of the country with the lower nominal interest rate, as higher nominal interest rates reflect an expectation of inflation.\n\nThe international Fisher effect is an extension of the Fisher effect hypothesized by American economist Irving Fisher. The Fisher effect states that a change in a country's expected inflation rate will result in a proportionate change in the country's interest rate, such that the Fisher effect:\nwhere\ni is the nominal interest rate\nr is the real interest rate\nπ is the expected inflation rate\ncan be arranged as\ni+1=1+π+r+rπ\nIt should be clarified here that when the inflation rate is at an average level, r will be small and usually ignored when calculating.\nSo the hypothesis suggests that the expected inflation rate should equal the difference between the nominal and real interest rates in any given country, such that:\nπ=(i-r)/(i+r)=i-r\nAssuming the real interest rate is equal across two countries due to capital mobility, such that r$ = r€ , substituting the aforementioned equation into the expectations form of relative purchasing power parity results in the formal equation for the international Fisher effect:\n〖∆E〗_($/€)/E_($/€) 〖=π〗_$-π_€=(i_$-r_$)/(1+r_$ )-(i_€-r_€)/(1+r_€ )\nWhere\n〖∆E〗_($/€)/E_($/€) is the expected rate of change in the exchange rate\nAssuming r_$=r_€ ，because of the capital mobility, we can know 〖∆E〗_($/€)/E_($/€) = (i_$-i_€)/(1+r_$ ).\nTherefore, we can get the International Fisher Effect: 〖∆E〗_(1/2)/E_(1/2) = i_1-i_2 〖=π〗_1-π_2.\n\nCombining the international Fisher effect with uncovered interest rate parity yields the following equation:\n\nwhere\n\nCombining the international Fisher effect with covered interest rate parity yields the equation for unbiasedness hypothesis, where the forward exchange rate is an unbiased predictor of the future spot exchange rate.:\n\nwhere\n\nSuppose the current spot exchange rate between the United States and the United Kingdom is 1.4339 GBP/USD. Also suppose the current interest rates are 5 percent in the U.S. and 7 percent in the U.K. What is the expected spot exchange rate 12 months from now according to the international Fisher effect? The effect estimates future exchange rates based on the relationship between nominal interest rates. Multiplying the current spot exchange rate by the nominal annual U.S. interest rate and dividing by the nominal annual U.K. interest rate yields the estimate of the spot exchange rate 12 months from now:\n\nTo check this example, use the formal or rearranged expressions of the international Fisher effect on the given interest rates:\n\nThe expected percentage change in the exchange rate is a depreciation of 1.87% for the GBP (it now only costs $1.4071 to purchase 1 GBP rather than $1.4339), which is consistent with the expectation that the value of the currency in the country with a higher interest rate will depreciate.\n"}
{"id": "2444452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2444452", "title": "Ion Țiriac", "text": "Ion Țiriac\n\nIon Țiriac (; born 9 May 1939), also known as the 'Brașov Bulldozer' is a Romanian businessman and former professional tennis and ice hockey player. A former top 10 player, he is the winner of one grand slam title, the 1970 French Open in men's doubles. Țiriac was the first man to play against a woman in a sanctioned tennis tournament (against Abigail Maynard, in 1975). The highlight of his ice hockey career was participating as defenseman in the Romanian national team at the 1964 Winter Olympics.\n\nHe gained notoriety in his (mostly) post-playing years as an advisor-coach-manager for the likes of Ilie Năstase, Manuel Orantes, Adriano Panatta, Guillermo Vilas, Henri Leconte and Boris Becker. Țiriac is the developer and owner of the Mutua Madrid Open masters tennis tournament. In 2013, he was elected as contributor into the International Tennis Hall of Fame. He has currently been managing French tennis player Lucas Pouille since December 2016.\n\nAs a tennis player he played dramatic 5 setters against Rod Laver, Stan Smith, Jan Kodeš or Manuel Orantes. His singles record includes wins over Arthur Ashe, Stan Smith, Roscoe Tanner, Manuel Orantes, Andrés Gimeno, Adriano Panatta or Niki Pilić. He never won against compatriot Ilie Năstase in their six meetings. He played 3 Davis Cup finals (in 1969, 1971 and 1972).\n\nHe was born in Transylvania, which is probably the reason why he has the nickname 'Count Dracula'. Țiriac first appeared on the international sports scene as a child ping pong champion, then subsequently as an ice hockey player on the Romanian national team at the 1964 Winter Olympics. Shortly after that he switched to tennis as his main sport. With fellow Romanian Ilie Năstase he won the men's doubles in the 1970 French Open and reached the Davis Cup finals several times in the 1970s.\n\nJohn McPhee wrote of him that his drooping mustache suggests \"that this man has been to places most people do not imagine exist. He appears to be a panatela ad, a triple agent from Alexandria, a used-car salesman from central Marrakesh. Tiriac has the air of a man who is about to close a deal in a back room behind a back room.\"\n\nTiriac participated in the short period during the 1970s when women dabbled as coeds in established men's tennis tournaments. In his first match he defeated Abigail Maynard 6-0 6-0 in their round one match at USTA pro circuit's Fairfiled County International Tennis Championship. It was the first time ever a female had entered a men’s tournament.\n\nAfter his retirement, he served as coach and manager for players such as Ilie Năstase, Guillermo Vilas, Mary Joe Fernández, Goran Ivanišević and Marat Safin.\n\nHe became the sports agent of Boris Becker and managed his career from 1984 to 1993. In 1998 he became president of the Romanian Olympic and Sports Committee.\n\nȚiriac ran major men's events in Germany, including the season-ending championships in Hanover. Although tennis is now a much smaller part of his portfolio and occupies only 5 percent of his time, he has taken particular pleasure and pride in making Madrid Tennis Open a combined men's and women's event with €7.2 million in total prize money. The trophy awarded to the tournament winner bears his name.\n\nȚiriac also holds the license for the BRD Năstase Țiriac Trophy tennis tournament since 1996. It is currently a €450,000 event, part of the ATP World Tour 250 series, held annually in Bucharest, Romania, just 2 weeks before the Madrid Open.\n\nIn 2012 he was nominated for the International Tennis Hall of Fame in the contributor category.\n\nOn 13 July 2013 he joined the International Tennis Hall of Fame as a successful promoter and tournament director for numerous events including the two of the largest Masters 1000 events, the Italian Open and the Madrid Masters.\n\nAfter his retirement as a professional tennis player, Țiriac became a businessman in Germany. In 1987, he appeared in a TV commercial for Miller Lite beer with Bob Uecker, who extols Țiriac's supposed humorous qualities, laughing hysterically while Țiriac sits stone-faced.\n\nFollowing the collapse of communism in Romania, he started numerous businesses and investments back home. In 1990, he founded Banca Țiriac, the first private bank in post-Communist Romania. Between that and several other enterprises (retail, insurance, auto leasing, auto dealerships, airlines, etc.), his fortune was estimated at over US$900 million in 2005.\n\nIon Țiriac is a car collector. Tiriac Collection represents the exhibition of cars and motorcycles of Mr. Ion Tiriac. Reopened to the public in May 2015, the collection includes historical vehicles manufactured since 1899 and also modern exotics with about 350 cars and 165 cars at full time display on a rotation basis. Visitors will find the only collection in the world with 2 Rolls-Royce Phantoms IV, as well as exhibits that previously belonged to great names such as Sir Elton John, Sammy Davis Jr. or Bernie Ecclestone.\n\nIon Țiriac became the first Romanian to enter Forbes' List of billionaires in the 2007 Forbes rankings, ranking 840th in the world. His wealth was estimated at $1.0 billion as of 2010, according to the magazine. In 2010, TOP 300 Capital declared Ion Țiriac the richest man in Romania with a wealth estimated at €1.5–€1.6 billion ($2–$2.2 billion).\n\nIn 2018, Ion Tiriac ranked #1867 on the \"Forbes\" World's Billionaires list, with wealth listed at US $1.2 billion.\n\nȚiriac was married to Erika Braedt, a handball player, between 1963 and 1965.\n\nHe has a son, Ion Țiriac Jr., with Mikette von Issenberg, a fashion model; and further two children with Karim Mihai and Ioana Natalia, with Sophie Ayad, an Egyptian journalist.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13853444", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13853444", "title": "Jane Sterk", "text": "Jane Sterk\n\nJane Sterk (born January 14, 1947) is a Canadian psychologist, businesswoman, academic, and politician. She is the former leader of the Green Party of British Columbia and a business professor at University Canada West. In the 2009 British Columbia provincial election she was a candidate in the riding of Esquimalt-Royal Roads and in the 2013 election was a candidate in Victoria-Beacon Hill. She was elected councillor in the Township of Esquimalt in 2005 was elected leader of the provincial Green Party in October 2007. In the 2004 federal election and the 2005 provincial election as a candidate in the Esquimalt ridings, she placed fourth and third with 9% and 10% of the vote, respectively.\n\nBefore moving to Esquimalt in 1997, Sterk had lived in Edmonton. She earned a doctorate from the University of Alberta in counseling psychology and worked for Edmonton Public Schools and the Edmonton Board of Health. In 1983 she co-founded a business, Softwarehouse West, with a co-worker from the Board of Health. She sold computers, hardware, software, and related services until she retired to Esquimalt in 1997 intending to purchase a boat and sail recreationally. On August 13, 2013 Sterk announced she would resign as Green party leader.\n\nJane Sterk was born and raised in Edmonton with her father, who worked as the dean of education at the University of Alberta, and her mother, who was a pianist. At 20 years old, in 1967 she married a man named John, who went on to become a lawyer and author. Together they raised two sons. Sterk worked as a school teacher for Edmonton Public Schools for seven years. At the University of Alberta, she earned a master's degree in education and a doctorate in counseling psychology. She opened a private psychologist practice and worked for the Edmonton Board of Health.\n\nIn 1983, at 36 years old, she opened a computer store, Softwarehouse West, with Gary Ford, a co-worker from the Edmonton Board of Health. After a difficult first year, the business grew. By 1990 they employed 33 others, had $6 million in annual revenue, and had won the 1989 Alberta Small Business Owners of the Year award from the Chamber of Commerce. In 1992 the business split off its information management section, with Sterk heading the new company, USConnect Edmonton.\n\nAfter working for another five years, Sterk and her husband retired in 1997 and moved to Esquimalt, British Columbia with the intention of sailing around the world. The couple purchased a boat and trained how to sail. They sailed in 1999 and passed Cape Flattery off the coast of Washington before turning back due to seasickness. After further preparation, they successfully sailed to Mexico and back in 2001.\n\nSterk got involved in Green Party politics following her trip to Mexico, where she witnessed ocean pollution and rapid development causing environmental and social damage. She understood that sustainable and responsible development could have avoided the damage. Sterk had never belonged to a political party before and had previously voted for parties across the political spectrum, depending on the specific candidates. She joined the Green Party in 2001. She ran as the Green Party of Canada's candidate in the 2004 federal election for the Esquimalt—Juan de Fuca riding, where she came in fourth of six candidates, garnering 9.2% of the vote. She was the Green Party of British Columbia's candidate in the May 2005 provincial election in the Esquimalt-Metchosin riding. Of the four candidates in the riding, she placed third with 10.4% of the vote.\n\nLater that year she ran for a seat on the Township of Esquimalt's city council. As a councilor she supported pedestrian rights, urban farming and using biofuels in the city vehicle fleet. She served as alternate director at the Capital Regional District. While she supported the construction of a regional sewage treatment plant, she, along with the other Esquimalt councilors, opposed locating the plant along the waterfront at Esquimalt's Macaulay Point.\nShe served her three-year term as councilor while teaching business administration on the faculty at University Canada West and becoming leader of the Green Party of British Columbia. She took over for Christopher Bennett, who had been the interim leader of the party since the previous leader, Adriane Carr, left in September 2006 to become deputy leader of the national party. The party held a leadership vote during its annual convention in Victoria in October 2007. Competing for the leadership position against Sterk were small business owner Damian Kettlewell and filmmaker Ben West, both residents of Vancouver, community activist Jack Etkin of Victoria, and Bowen Island oceanographer Silvaine Zimmermann. The party used the preferential ballot, and Sterk won with West coming in second and Kettlewell third.\n\nAs leader Sterk set party priorities to increase membership, raise funds for the 2009 provincial election, and open a party office in Victoria. She participated in the October 2008 provincial by-election in Vancouver-Fairview and came in third with 7.2% of the popular vote. For the 2009 provincial election she ran in Esquimalt-Royal Roads the riding where she resides; she placed third behind the NDP and the BC Liberals.\n\nSterk was an unsuccessful candidate in Victoria-Beacon Hill in the 2013 provincial election. On August 13, 2013, she announced her resignment as party leader.\n\nOn January 1, 2014, Sterk became executive director of Cowichan Women Against Violence Society (CWAVS), in Duncan B.C. Since becoming executive director at the organization, Sterk has helped facilitate fundraisers such as the annual \"I am Woman Hear me Laff\", and the annual CWAVS Gala. Prior to her work with CWAVS, Sterk's work in the public sector included consulting to non-profit organizations in the health, education and social service sectors on team building, case consultation and creating healthy work places. She offered training and continuing education courses in communication, consultation and counselling skills and improving self esteem.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30092812", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30092812", "title": "Johannes Aarflot", "text": "Johannes Aarflot\n\nJohannes Amundsson Aarflot (29 October 1824 – 3 November 1891) was a Norwegian businessman and member of the Norwegian Parliament. \n\nAarflot was born on the farm Årflot at Ørsta (\"Aarflot i Ørsta\") in Møre og Romsdal, Norway. He was the son of Amund Knutsson Aarflot (1788–1860) and his wife, Berte Canutte Aarflot (1795–1859) who was a Christian hymnwriter in the Haugean tradition (\"haugianere\"). From 1841 he was an employee at a bookstore in Ålesund. In 1860, he opened his own bookstore, \"Aarflots Bokhandel\" (now Ark Aarflot).\n\nHe was a member of the city council in Alesund during 1861. He served as the mayor of the town in 1864, 1876–81 and 1883-91. He also served as one of the Settlement Commissioners (\"Forlikskommissær\") on the District Conciliation Board (\"Forliksråd \") from 1870. Aarflot became a member of the Norwegian Parliament from the Conservative Party, representing Aalesund og Molde during four terms (1868-1869, 1871-1873, 1880–82, 1889-1891).\n"}
{"id": "17522460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17522460", "title": "John Augustine Hartford", "text": "John Augustine Hartford\n\nJohn Augustine Hartford (February 10, 1872 – September 20, 1951) was the longtime President of the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company (\"A&P\"), serving in that position for 35 years from 1916 until his death. His father, George Huntington Hartford (1833–1917) left the control of the company's voting stock to a trust that gave total control to John and his older brother George Ludlum Hartford (1864–1957) who served as chairman. John, who one company historian named the \"Merchant Prince\", ran the business operations side of the empire, while his brother George ran the financial side. \"Time\" magazine interviewed John and his brother George who were on their cover in November 1950. \"Time\" wrote that \"going to the A&P was almost an American tribal rite\". \"The Wall Street Journal\" in an editorial on August 29, 2011 wrote \"Together the brothers, neither of whom had finished high school, built what would be, for 40 years, the largest retail outlet in the world.\" \"The New York Times\" in an editorial on September 7, 2011 wrote that John and George Hartford \"were among the 20th century’s most accomplished and visionary businessmen.\" \n\nBorn and raised in Orange, New Jersey, John Hartford started his career at A&P in 1888 after finishing high school. Far more outgoing that either his father or older brother, John traveled extensively and became the team's representative in the far flung empire. After his father acquired ownership of the company from the estate of George Gilman, the company's founder, John lead the company's expansion and the firm became the largest grocery chain by 1915. He reinvented the company three times: the economy grocery store concept in 1912; the combination grocery/meat/produce store in the mid-1920s; and the self serve supermarket in the late 1930s. As a result, he was responsible for improving the country's nutrition by lowering the cost of food and expanding the diet of the average American.\n\nJohn's personal life was also different from his conservative father and brother. He was married three times: to Pauline Augusta Corwin (1872–1948) in 1892; to Frances Bolger in 1924; and, to his first wife for a second time in 1925. In 1950, Hartford had a chapel built on the New York-Presbyterian Hospital campus in memory of his recently deceased wife, Pauline. He owned a large Tudor manor house in Valhalla, New York and maintained a suite at the Plaza Hotel. John had no children and left his estate to the John A. Hartford Foundation. \"To immortalize outstanding American merchants\", Joseph Kennedy in 1953 commissioned a bronze bust of John's father George Huntington Hartford, four times life size along with 7 other men, which would come to be known as the Merchandise Mart Hall of Fame in Chicago.\n\nJohn Hartford was born in Orange, New Jersey and was the fourth child of George Huntington Hartford (1832–1917) and Marie Josephine Ludium (1837–1915). John's father was already an executive at the Great Atlantic and Pacific Tea Company which his father would then own. Mr. Hartford was also elected Mayor of Orange when John was six and served as both Mayor and Gilman's partner. At an early age, John demonstrated an entrepreneurial spirit when on St. Patrick's day he parked his father's buggy along the parade route and charged people to climb up to get a better view. After completing high school, he joined A&P, working at a company warehouse.\n\nBy the time John joined the firm, A&P was making the transition from being chain of tea and coffee shops to the first chain of grocery stores. John's older brother, known as Mr. George to distinguish him from his father known as Mr. Hartford, had joined the firm eight years earlier and had won respect for his suggestions to expand the then limited product line. Both John's father and brother were private people as compared to John's extroverted personality and John quickly assumed the role representing headquarters by extensively traveling around the company. Gilman died in 1901, and George Sr. acquired control of the company from the estate, eventually purchasing the interest of the Gilman heirs. At that time, A&P ranked only 5th among national grocery chains with 200 stores and the company started an aggressive expansion plan. About 1907, John and his brother George assumed greater management responsibilities when their father reached 75 with George Jr. controlling finance and John directing sales and operations.\n\nOne of John's early changes was to change the branding on the company's lines of private label products. John decided to replace the company's long name on labels and store signs with the now distinctive \"A&P\". He also expanded the product lines available in the stores. To make room, he substituted the large inventory of premiums displayed in the stores with S&H Green stamps. By 1912, the company reached 400 stores. Next, he proposed opening no frills economy stores that offered low prices by operating at a 12% mark up rather than the normal 22% mark up. His father and brother rejected the idea, but later agreed to an experiment. The first store was opened with an investment of only $3,000 and produced a higher rate of return than the regular stores. Because the economy stores were small, they could be quickly set up in existing real estate. In three years, the chain expanded to 1600 units, opening 864 stores in 1915 alone. As a result of John's marketing concepts, A&P was now the largest grocer in the country. The next year, Mr. Hartford retired and John was named President while his brother George became Chairman and Treasurer. In 1917, their father died and left his estate to a one generation trust that gave total control of the company's voting stock to George and John as long as either lived.\n\nIn addition to its retail stores, A&P operated manufacturing plants on a small scale. After the Supreme Court ruled that manufacturers could establish minimum prices for their products, John decided to by pass the decision by expanding A&P's own manufacturing facilities. John personally consulted with Henry Ford about vertical integration and turned A&P into one of the country's largest food producers including coffee, tea, bakery, canned goods and even a salmon packing operation in Alaska. A&P continued to rapidly expand and by 1925 operated 13,961 stores with sales of $400 million and profit of $10 million. John convinced George to decentralize management into regions but George insisted that headquarters retain control of finances, real estate and purchasing policy, the areas he personally managed. The company introduced larger \"combination stores\" including space for meats, produce and dairy as well as traditional grocery items and launched a new drive to reduce costs. By 1930 the company's 16,000 stores reached sales of $1 billion.\n\nA&P's sales and profits increased during the early years of the Depression because of the company's ability to deliver low prices. Meanwhile a few entrepreneurs experimented with large self-service \"supermarkets\" that offered even lower prices. John held back opening his first supermarket until 1936. Over the next two years, the company opened 1,100 of the larger stores. The chain continued to rebuild itself so that by 1950 A&P operated 4,000 supermarkets and 500 smaller combination stores. Sales reached $3.2 billion with an after tax profit of $32 million.\n\nDuring the 1930s and 1940s, the Hartford brothers and their company were dragged into a political and legal battle that threatened to destroy the firm. To protect small independent grocers, Texas Congressman Wright Patman introduced legislation to place a prohibitive federal tax on each chain store. John hired a lobbyist and with his brother published a long letter pointing out that the effect of Patman's legislation would be a significant increase of food prices. The tide of public opinion turned against the bill and the proposal died.\n\nDuring these events, in March 1939 Hartford received a call from a friend of President Franklin D. Roosevelt (FDR) inquiring if John was interested in loaning the President's son, Elliott Roosevelt $200,000 to invest in Elliott's foundering broadcasting network, the Texas State Network. When the President's son met with Hartford, John was reluctant to help him out and insisted that the President approve the transaction. In an arranged move, Elliott said \"Let's get Dad on the phone,\" and called FDR in Warm Springs, Georgia. The President (who did not know Hartford) began the conversation with \"Hello John!\" He assured Hartford that he knew all about the matter, and that it was a sound investment. Despite the furious opposition of brother George Hartford, John felt he could not refuse the deal, especially as the Patman bill was still pending. After the loan, the White House arranged for the defeat of the bill in Congress. However, Elliott's broadcasting network, for which he had also obtained other loans in return for political favors, went bankrupt by the end of 1939.\n\nIn late 1941, after Elliott had joined the Army, the President asked Jesse Jones to negotiate settlements with his son's creditors. Though he later said he assumed the President would back up Elliott's debts, Hartford, influenced by the outbreak of war, in March 1942 agreed to accept $4,000 and then wrote off the remaining $196,000 on his taxes. He also agreed to give up his security in TSN stock, which Jesse Jones represented as \"worthless.\" Hartford soon found that the stock rose rapidly after Elliott left the network and was in fact worth far more than the loan. In his memoir \"Fifty Billion Dollars\", Jesse Jones detailed the matter and asserted that FDR had manipulated him into settling the deal with Hartford and two other major creditors.\n\nThe Federal Bureau of Investigation under J. Edgar Hoover had been aware of Elliott's schemes from the beginning. The Hartford loan scandal, which involved several other parties, was discovered by Congressional subcommittees investigating the U.S. Federal Communications Commission (FCC) in 1943, but FDR's top aide (then in private practice) Thomas Corcoran succeeded in keeping it under wraps until after FDR's death in April 1945. On wiretaps, Corcoran is heard saying that if the case (and related FCC matters) had broken in 1944, it would have finished FDR politically. However, soon after FDR's death John Hartford agreed to talk to syndicated columnist Westbrook Pegler about the matter, and a major investigation was launched, thanks to which the financial details are known today.\n\nThe matter caused bitter public controversy in August 1945, but in Congress the Democratic majority shelved the matter, though registering a blistering Republican minority opinion. Both sides agreed Hartford's tax deduction was probably legitimate but Republicans contended that the President's son should have reported the debt forgiveness as income. Hartford testified to the Bureau of Internal Revenue that he never would have issued the loan without the President's personal assurances, and that he assumed FDR's word was \"as good as S&P.\" Although he maintained that the Patman bill would have bankrupted A&P, he absolutely denied that he dealt with Elliott and Jones in order to obtain political favors.\n\nJohn Hartford's favor to the President did not protect the company when Roosevelt's anti-trust division charged John and his brother George with a criminal violation of the anti-trust laws. The prosecutors contended that the combination of the company's manufacturing, distribution and retail operations, if unchecked, would drive all competition out of business. The company countered that its market share was only in the 15% range and that its low cost strategy had resulted in a significant improvement in that nation's nutrition and standard of living. In 1945, the court agreed with the government and fined each of the brothers $10,000. In 1949, the U.S. Court of Appeals upheld the decision and the anti-trust division asked the court to break up the company Thousands of letters poured into the Justice Department supporting the company and the Hartford brothers gave extensive interviews with \"Time\" which put them on the magazine's November 13, 1950 cover. The case dragged on until the more business friendly Eisenhower Administration that dropped its demands to break up the company.\n\nIn 1893, John married Pauline Augusta Corwin (July 18, 1872–September 5, 1948) of Goshen, New York but did not have children. They lived at the Hotel Marie Antoinette in Manhattan. Because of the pressures of his work, the couple drifted apart and separated in 1915. Hartford became attached to Frances Bolger, a young model that he ultimately married in June 1923. The marriage lasted only six months and in 1924 he remarried Pauline in Paris. In 1928, they completed a Tudor manor house known as Buena Vista Farm in Valhalla, New York that they used as a weekend and summer residence. In 1953, the house was converted to Westchester Community College. The couple also maintained a suite at the Plaza Hotel and in 1929 created the John A. Hartford Foundation with focus on improving health care for older Americans.\n\nJohn died of a heart attack in an elevator at the Chrysler Building after attending a Chrysler board meeting. The \"San Francisco Call-Bulletin\" wrote \"John A. Hartford belonged to a little group of Americans whose energy and vision made us the most prosperous nation in the world. He pioneered in foodstuffs just as Henry Ford did in Transportation. Their philosophy was blunt and simple, just as most works of genius are simple, sell more for less.\" \"The Columbus Georgia Ledger\" wrote \"What Ford meant to transportation, what Edison meant to electricity, what Burbank meant to Horticulture, John Hartford meant to Food Retailing in America.\" The \"Davenport Daily Times\" wrote \"In the death of Mr. John there passes a Retail Napoleon. He had a Grocery Empire as Ford had a Automobile Empire, Rockefeller an Oil Empire, Carnegie a Steel Empire. We shall not see their like again.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19732690", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19732690", "title": "John Tyler", "text": "John Tyler\n\nJohn Tyler (March 29, 1790 – January 18, 1862) was the tenth President of the United States from 1841 to 1845 after briefly being the tenth Vice President (1841); he was elected to the latter office on the 1840 Whig ticket with President William Henry Harrison. Tyler ascended to the presidency after Harrison's death in April 1841, only a month after the start of the new administration. He was a supporter of states' rights, and as president he adopted nationalist policies only when they did not infringe on the powers of the states. His unexpected rise to the presidency, with the resulting threat to the presidential ambitions of Henry Clay and other politicians, left him estranged from both major political parties.\n\nTyler, born to a prominent Virginia family, became a national figure at a time of political upheaval. In the 1820s the nation's only political party, the Democratic-Republicans, split into factions. He was initially a Democrat, but opposed Andrew Jackson during the Nullification Crisis, seeing Jackson's actions as infringing upon states' rights, and criticized Jackson's expansion of executive power during the Bank War. This led Tyler to ally with the Whig Party. Tyler served as a Virginia state legislator, governor, U.S. representative, and U.S. senator. He was put on the 1840 presidential ticket to attract states' rights Southerners to a Whig coalition to defeat Martin Van Buren's re-election bid.\n\nWith the death of President Harrison, Tyler became the first vice president to succeed to the presidency without election. After Harrison's one-month term, Tyler served longer than any president in U.S. history not elected to the office. To forestall constitutional uncertainty, Tyler immediately took the oath of office, moved into the White House, and assumed full presidential powers, a precedent that governed future successions and was codified in the Twenty-fifth Amendment. A strict constructionist, Tyler found much of the Whig platform unconstitutional, and vetoed several of his party's bills. Believing that the president should set policy rather than Congress, he sought to bypass the Whig establishment, most notably Kentucky Senator Henry Clay. Most of Tyler's Cabinet resigned soon into his term, and the Whigs, dubbing him \"His Accidency\", expelled him from the party. Tyler was the first president to see his veto of legislation overridden by Congress. Although he faced a stalemate on domestic policy, he had several foreign-policy achievements, including the Webster–Ashburton Treaty with Britain and the Treaty of Wanghia with Qing China.\n\nThe Republic of Texas separated from Mexico in 1836; Tyler, a firm believer in manifest destiny, saw its annexation as providing an economic advantage to the United States, and worked diligently to make it happen. He initially sought election to a full term as president, but after failing to gain the support of either Whigs or Democrats, he withdrew in support of Democrat James K. Polk, who favored annexation. Polk won the election, and Tyler signed a bill to annex Texas three days before leaving office. Under Polk, the process was completed. After the American Civil War began in 1861, Tyler won election to the Confederate House of Representatives shortly before his death. Although some have praised Tyler's political resolve, his presidency is generally held in low regard by historians. He is considered an obscure president, with little presence in American cultural memory.\n\nJohn Tyler was born on March 29, 1790; like his future running mate, William Henry Harrison, Tyler hailed from Charles City County, Virginia and was descended from aristocratic and politically entrenched families. The Tyler family traced its lineage to colonial Williamsburg in the 17th century. John Tyler Sr., commonly known as Judge Tyler, was a friend and college roommate of Thomas Jefferson and served in the Virginia House of Delegates alongside Benjamin Harrison V, father of William. The elder Tyler served four years as Speaker of the House of Delegates before becoming a state court judge. He subsequently served as governor and as a judge on the U.S. District Court at Richmond. His wife, Mary Marot (Armistead), was the daughter of a prominent plantation owner, Robert Booth Armistead. She died of a stroke when her son John was seven years old.\n\nWith two brothers and five sisters, Tyler was reared on Greenway Plantation, a estate with a six-room manor house his father had built. The Tylers' forty slaves grew various crops, including wheat, corn and tobacco. Judge Tyler paid high wages for tutors who challenged his children academically. Tyler was of frail health, thin and prone to diarrhea throughout life. At the age of twelve, he entered the preparatory branch of the elite College of William and Mary, continuing the Tyler family's tradition of attending the college. Tyler graduated from the school's collegiate branch in 1807, at age seventeen. Among the books that formed his economic views was Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\", and he acquired a lifelong love of Shakespeare. His political opinions were shaped by Bishop James Madison, the college's president and namesake of the future president; the bishop served as a second father and mentor to Tyler.\n\nAfter graduation Tyler read the law with his father, a state judge at the time, and later with Edmund Randolph, former United States Attorney General. Tyler was erroneously admitted to the Virginia bar at the premature age of 19—the admitting judge neglected to ask his age. By this time his father was serving as Governor of Virginia (1808–1811), and the young Tyler started a practice in Richmond, the state capital. In 1813 he purchased Woodburn plantation, and resided there until 1821.\n\nIn 1811, at age 21, Tyler was elected to represent Charles City County in the House of Delegates. He served five successive one-year terms and sat on the Courts and Justice committee. The young politician's defining positions were on display by the end of his first term in 1816—strong support of states' rights and opposition to a national bank. He joined fellow legislator Benjamin W. Leigh in supporting the censure of U.S. senators William Branch Giles and Richard Brent of Virginia who had, against the Virginia legislature's instructions, voted for the recharter of the First Bank of the United States \n\nTyler, like most Americans of his day, was anti-British, and at the onset of the War of 1812 he urged support for military action in a speech to the House of Delegates. After the British capture of Hampton, Virginia in the summer of 1813, Tyler eagerly organized a militia company, the Charles City Rifles, to defend Richmond, which he commanded with the rank of captain. No attack came, and he dissolved the company two months later. For his military service, Tyler received a land grant near what later became Sioux City, Iowa.\n\nTyler's father died in 1813, and Tyler inherited thirteen slaves along with his father's plantation. In 1816, he resigned his legislative seat to serve on the Governor's Council of State, a group of eight advisers elected by the General Assembly.\n\nThe death of U.S. Representative John Clopton in September 1816 created a vacancy in Virginia's 23rd congressional district. Tyler sought the seat, as did his friend and political ally Andrew Stevenson. Since the two men were politically alike, the race was for the most part a popularity contest. Tyler's political connections and campaigning skills narrowly won him the election. He was sworn into the Fourteenth Congress on December 17, 1816, to serve as a Democratic-Republican, the major political party in the Era of Good Feelings.\n\nWhile the Democratic-Republicans had supported states' rights, in the wake of the War of 1812 many members urged a stronger central government. A majority in Congress wanted to see the federal government help to fund internal improvements such as ports and roadways. Tyler held fast to his strict constructionist beliefs, rejecting such proposals on both constitutional and personal grounds. He believed each state should construct necessary projects within its borders using locally generated funds. Virginia was not \"in so poor a condition as to require a \"charitable\" donation from Congress,\" he contended. He was chosen to participate in an audit of the Second Bank of the United States in 1818 as part of a five-man committee, and was appalled by corruption he perceived within the bank. He argued for the revocation of the bank charter, although Congress rejected any such proposal. His first clash with General Andrew Jackson followed Jackson's 1818 invasion of Florida during the First Seminole War. While praising Jackson's character, Tyler condemned him as overzealous for the execution of two British subjects. Tyler was elected for a full term without opposition in early 1819.\n\nThe major issue of the Sixteenth Congress (1819–21) was whether Missouri should be admitted to the Union, and whether slavery would be permitted in the new state. Acknowledging the ills of slavery, he hoped that by letting it expand, there would be fewer slaves in the east as slave and master journeyed west, making it feasible to consider abolishing the institution in Virginia. Thus, slavery would be abolished through the action of individual states as the practice became rare, as had been done in some Northern states. Tyler believed that Congress did not have the power to regulate slavery and that admitting states based on whether they were slave or free was a recipe for sectional conflict; therefore, the Missouri Compromise was enacted without Tyler's support. It admitted Missouri as a slave state and Maine as a free one, and it also forbade slavery in states formed from the northern part of the territories. Throughout his time in Congress, he voted against bills which would restrict slavery in the territories.\n\nTyler declined to seek renomination in late 1820, citing ill health. He privately acknowledged his dissatisfaction with the position, as his opposing votes were largely symbolic and did little to change the political culture in Washington; he also observed that funding his children's education would be difficult on a congressman's low salary. He left office on March 3, 1821, endorsing his former opponent Stevenson for the seat, and returned to private law practice full-time.\n\nRestless and bored after two years at home practicing law, Tyler sought election to the House of Delegates in 1823. Neither member from Charles City County was seeking re-election, and Tyler was elected easily that April, finishing first among the three candidates seeking the two seats. At the term's start in December, he found the chamber in debate over the impending presidential election of 1824. The congressional nominating caucus, an early system for choosing presidential candidates, was still used despite its growing unpopularity. Tyler tried to convince the lower house to endorse the caucus system and choose William H. Crawford as the Democratic-Republican candidate. Crawford captured the legislature's support, but Tyler's proposal was defeated. His most enduring effort in this second legislative tenure was saving the College of William and Mary, which risked closure from waning enrollment. Rather than move it from rural Williamsburg to the populous capital of Richmond, as some suggested, Tyler proposed that a series of administrative and financial reforms be enacted. These were passed into law and were successful; by 1840 the school achieved its highest-ever enrollment.\n\nTyler's political fortunes were growing; he was considered as a possible candidate in the legislative deliberation for the 1824 U.S. Senate election. He was nominated in December 1825 for governor of Virginia, a position which was then appointed by the legislature. Tyler was elected 131–81 over John Floyd. The office of governor was powerless under the original Virginia Constitution (1776–1830), lacking even veto authority. Tyler enjoyed a prominent oratorical platform but could do little to influence the legislature. His most visible act as governor was delivering the funeral address for former president Jefferson, a Virginian, who had died on July 4, 1826. Tyler was deeply devoted to Jefferson, and his eloquent eulogy was well received.\n\nTyler's governorship was otherwise uneventful. He promoted states' rights and adamantly opposed any concentration of federal power. In order to thwart federal infrastructure proposals, he suggested Virginia actively expand its own road system. A proposal was made to expand the state's poorly funded public school system, but no significant action was taken. Tyler was re-elected unanimously to a second one-year term in December 1826.\n\nIn 1829, Tyler was elected as a delegate to the Virginia Constitutional Convention of 1829-1830 from the Senate District that included Chief Justice John Marshall. He was appointed to the Committee on the Legislature. His service in various capacities at a state level included as president of the Virginia Colonization Society, and as rector and chancellor of the College of William and Mary.\n\nIn January 1827, the General Assembly considered whether to elect U.S. Senator John Randolph for a full six-year term. Randolph was a contentious figure; although he shared the staunch states' rights views held by most of the Virginia legislature, he had a reputation for fiery rhetoric and erratic behavior on the Senate floor, which put his allies in an awkward position. Furthermore, he had made enemies by fiercely opposing President John Quincy Adams and Kentucky Senator Henry Clay. The nationalists of the Democratic-Republican Party, who supported Adams and Clay, were a sizable minority in the Virginia legislature. They hoped to unseat Randolph by capturing the vote of states' rights supporters who were uncomfortable with the senator's reputation. They approached Tyler, and promised their endorsement if he sought the seat. Tyler repeatedly declined the offer, endorsing Randolph as the best candidate, but the political pressure continued to mount. Eventually he agreed to accept the seat if chosen. On the day of the vote, one assemblyman argued there was no political difference between the two candidates—Tyler was merely more agreeable than Randolph. The incumbent's supporters, though, contended that Tyler's election would be a tacit endorsement of the Adams administration. The legislature selected Tyler in a vote of 115–110, and he resigned his governorship on March 4, 1827, as his Senate term began.\n\nBy the time of Tyler's senatorial election, the 1828 campaign for president was in progress. Adams, the incumbent president, was challenged by Gen. Andrew Jackson. The Democratic-Republicans had splintered into Adams' National Republicans and Jackson's Democrats. Tyler disliked both candidates for their willingness to increase the power of the federal government, but he was increasingly drawn to Jackson, hoping that he would not seek to spend as much federal money on internal improvements as Adams. of Jackson he wrote, \"Turning to him I may at least indulge in hope; looking on Adams I must despair.\"\n\nWhen the Twentieth Congress began in December 1827, Tyler served alongside his Virginia colleague and friend Littleton Waller Tazewell, who shared his strict constructionist views and uneasy support of Jackson. Throughout his tenure, Sen. Tyler vigorously opposed national infrastructure bills, feeling these were matters for individual states to decide. He and his Southern colleagues unsuccessfully opposed the protectionist Tariff of 1828, known to its detractors as the \"Tariff of Abominations\". Tyler suggested that the Tariff's only positive outcome would be a national political backlash, restoring a respect for states' rights. Tyler remained a strong supporter of states' rights, stating \"they may strike the Federal Government out of existence by a word; demolish the Constitution and scatter its fragments to the winds.\"\n\nTyler was soon at odds with President Jackson, frustrated by Jackson's newly emerging spoils system, describing it as an \"electioneering weapon\". He voted against many of the President's nominations when they appeared to be unconstitutional or motivated by patronage. Opposing the nominations of a president of his own party was considered \"an act of insurgency\" against his party. Tyler was particularly offended by Jackson's use of the recess appointment power to name three treaty commissioners to meet with emissaries from the Ottoman Empire, and introduced a bill chastising the president for this.\n\nIn some matters Tyler was on good terms with Jackson. He defended Jackson for vetoing the Maysville Road funding project, which Jackson considered unconstitutional. He voted to confirm several of the president's appointments, including Jackson's future running mate Martin Van Buren as United States Minister to Britain. The leading issue in the 1832 presidential election was the recharter of the Second Bank of the United States, which both Tyler and Jackson opposed. Congress voted to recharter the bank in July 1832, and Jackson vetoed the bill for both constitutional and practical reasons. Tyler voted to sustain the veto and endorsed the president in his successful bid for re-election.\n\nTyler's uneasy relationship with his party came to a head during the 22nd Congress, as the Nullification Crisis of 1832–33 began. South Carolina, threatening secession, passed the Ordinance of Nullification in November 1832, declaring the \"Tariff of Abominations\" null and void within its borders. This raised the constitutional question of whether states could nullify federal laws. President Jackson, who denied such a right, prepared to sign a Force Bill allowing the federal government to use military action to enforce the tariff. Tyler, who sympathized with South Carolina's reasons for nullification, rejected Jackson's use of military force against a state and gave a speech in February 1833 outlining his views. He supported Clay's Compromise Tariff, enacted that year, to gradually reduce the tariff over ten years, alleviating tensions between the states and the federal government.\n\nIn voting against the Force Bill, Tyler knew he would permanently alienate the pro-Jackson faction of the Virginia legislature, even those who had tolerated his irregularity up to this point. This jeopardized his re-election in February 1833, in which he faced the pro-administration Democrat James McDowell; however, with Clay's endorsement, Tyler was re-elected by a margin of 12 votes.\n\nJackson further offended Tyler by moving to dissolve the Bank by executive fiat. In September 1833, Jackson issued an executive order directing Treasury Secretary Roger B. Taney to transfer federal funds from the Bank to state-chartered banks without delay. Tyler saw this as \"a flagrant assumption of power\", a breach of contract, and a threat to the economy. After months of agonizing, he decided to join with Jackson's opponents. Sitting on the Senate Finance Committee, he voted for two censure resolutions against the president in March 1834. By this time, Tyler had become affiliated with Clay's newly formed Whig Party, which held control of the Senate. On March 3, 1835, with only hours remaining in the congressional session, the Whigs voted Tyler President \"pro tempore\" of the Senate as a symbolic gesture of approval. He is the only U.S. president to have held this office.\n\nShortly thereafter, the Democrats took control of the Virginia House of Delegates. Tyler was offered a judgeship in exchange for resigning his seat, but he declined. Tyler understood what was to come: he would soon be forced by the legislature to cast a vote that went against his constitutional beliefs. Senator Thomas Hart Benton of Missouri had introduced a bill expunging the censure of Jackson. By resolution of the Democratic-controlled legislature, Tyler could be instructed to vote for the bill. If he disregarded the instructions, he would be violating his own principles: \"the first act of my political life was a censure on Messrs. Giles and Brent for opposition to instructions,\" he noted. Over the next few months he sought the counsel of his friends, who gave him conflicting advice. By mid-February he felt that his Senate career was likely at an end. He issued a letter of resignation to the Vice President, Van Buren, on February 29, 1836, saying in part:\n\nWhile Tyler wished to attend to his private life and family, he was soon occupied with the presidential election of 1836. He had been suggested as a vice presidential candidate since early 1835, and the same day the Virginia Democrats issued the expunging instruction, the Virginia Whigs nominated him as their candidate. The new Whig Party was not organized enough to hold a national convention and name a single ticket against Van Buren, Jackson's chosen successor. Instead, Whigs in various regions put forth their own preferred tickets, reflecting the party's tenuous coalition: the Massachusetts Whigs nominated Daniel Webster and Francis Granger, the Anti-Masons of the Northern and border states backed William Henry Harrison and Granger, and the states' rights advocates of the middle and lower South nominated Hugh Lawson White and John Tyler. In Maryland, the Whig ticket was Harrison and Tyler and in South Carolina it was Willie P. Mangum and Tyler. The Whigs wanted to deny Van Buren a majority in the Electoral College, throwing the election into the House of Representatives, where deals could be made. Tyler hoped electors would be unable to elect a vice president, and that he would be one of the top two vote-getters, from whom the Senate, under the Twelfth Amendment, must choose.\n\nFollowing the custom of the times—that candidates not appear to seek the office—Tyler stayed home throughout the campaign, and made no speeches. Tyler received only 47 electoral votes, from Georgia, South Carolina and Tennessee, in the November 1836 election, trailing both Granger and the Democratic candidate, Richard Mentor Johnson of Kentucky. Harrison was the leading Whig candidate for president, but he lost to Van Buren. The presidential election was settled by the Electoral College, but for the only time in American history, the vice presidential election was decided by the Senate, which selected Johnson over Granger on the first ballot.\n\nTyler had been drawn into Virginia politics even as a U.S. Senator. From October 1829 to January 1830, he served as a member of the state constitutional convention, a role which he had been reluctant to accept. The original Virginia Constitution gave outsize influence to the state's more conservative eastern counties, as it allocated an equal number of legislators to each county (regardless of population) and only granted suffrage to property owners. The convention gave the more populous and liberal counties of western Virginia an opportunity to expand their influence. Tyler, a slaveowner from eastern Virginia, supported the existing system. He largely remained on the sidelines during the debate, however, not wishing to alienate any of the state's political factions. He was focused on his Senate career, which required a broad base of support, and gave speeches during the convention promoting compromise and unity.\n\nAfter the 1836 election, Tyler thought his political career was at an end, and planned to return to private law practice. In the fall of 1837 a friend sold him a sizable property in Williamsburg. Unable to remain away from politics, Tyler successfully sought election to the House of Delegates and took his seat in 1838. He was a national political figure by this point, and his third delegate service touched on such national issues as the sale of public lands.\n\nTyler's successor in the Senate was William Cabell Rives, a conservative Democrat. In February 1839, the General Assembly considered who should fill that seat, which was to expire the following month. Rives had drifted away from his party, signalling a possible alliance with the Whigs. As Tyler had already fully rejected the Democrats, he expected the Whigs would support him. Still, many Whigs found Rives a more politically expedient choice, as they hoped to ally with the conservative wing of the Democratic Party in the 1840 presidential election. This strategy was supported by Whig leader Henry Clay, who nevertheless admired Tyler at that time. With the vote split among three candidates, including Rives and Tyler, the Senate seat remained vacant for almost two years, until January 1841.\n\nWhen the 1839 Whig National Convention convened in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania to choose the party's ticket, the United States was in the third year of a serious recession following the Panic of 1837. President Van Buren's ineffective efforts to deal with the situation cost him public support. With the Democratic Party torn into factions, the head of the Whig ticket would likely be the next president. Harrison, Clay, and General Winfield Scott all sought the nomination. Tyler attended the convention and was with the Virginia delegation, although he had no official status. Because of bitterness over the unresolved Senate election, the Virginia delegation refused to make Tyler its favorite son candidate for vice president. Tyler himself did nothing to aid his chances. If his favored candidate for the presidential nomination, Clay, were successful, he would likely not be chosen for the second place on the ticket, which would probably go to a Northerner to assure geographic balance.\n\nThe convention deadlocked among the three main candidates, with Virginia's votes going to Clay. Many Northern Whigs opposed Clay, and some, including Pennsylvania's Thaddeus Stevens, showed the Virginians a letter written by Scott in which he apparently displayed abolitionist sentiments. The influential Virginia delegation then announced that Harrison was its second choice, causing most Scott supporters to abandon him in favor of Harrison, who gained the presidential nomination.\n\nThe vice presidential nomination was considered immaterial; no president had failed to complete his elected term. Not much attention was given to the choice, and the specifics of how Tyler came to gain it are unclear. Chitwood pointed out that Tyler was a logical candidate: as a Southern slaveowner, he balanced the ticket and also assuaged the fears of Southerners who felt Harrison might have abolitionist leanings. Tyler had been a vice-presidential candidate in 1836, and having him on the ticket might win Virginia, the most populous state in the South. One of the convention managers, New York publisher Thurlow Weed, alleged that \"Tyler was finally taken because we could get nobody else to accept\"—though he did not say this until after the subsequent break between President Tyler and the Whig Party. Other Tyler foes claimed that he had wept himself into the White House, after crying at Clay's defeat; this was unlikely, as the Kentuckian had backed Tyler's opponent Rives in the Senate election. Tyler's name was submitted in the balloting, and though Virginia abstained, he received the necessary majority. Tyler, as president, was accused of having gained the nomination by concealing his views, and responded that he had not been asked about them. His biographer, Robert Seager II, held that Tyler was selected because of a dearth of alternative candidates. Seager concluded, \"He was put on the ticket to draw the South to Harrison. No more, no less.\"\n\nThere was no Whig platform—the party leaders decided that trying to put one together would tear the party apart. So the Whigs ran on their opposition to Van Buren, blaming him and his Democrats for the recession. In campaign materials, Tyler was praised for integrity in resigning over the state legislature's instructions. The Whigs initially hoped to muzzle Harrison and Tyler, lest they make policy statements that alienated segments of the party. But after Tyler's Democratic rival, Vice President Johnson, made a successful speaking tour, Tyler was called upon to travel from Williamsburg to Columbus, Ohio, and there address a local convention, in a speech intended to assure Northerners that he shared Harrison's views. In his journey of nearly two months, Tyler made speeches at rallies. He could not avoid questions, and after being heckled into an admission that he supported the Compromise Tariff (many Whigs did not), resorted to quoting from Harrison's vague speeches. In his two-hour speech at Columbus, Tyler entirely avoided the issue of the Bank of the United States, one of the major questions of the day.\n\nTo win the election, Whig leaders decided they had to mobilize people across the country, including women, who could not then vote. This was the first time that an American political party included women in campaign activities on a widespread scale, and women in Tyler's Virginia were active on his behalf. The party hoped to avoid issues and win through public enthusiasm, with torchlight processions and alcohol-fueled political rallies. The interest in the campaign was unprecedented, with many public events. When the Democratic press depicted Harrison as an old soldier, who would turn aside from his campaign if given a barrel of hard cider to drink in his log cabin, the Whigs eagerly seized on the image, and the log cabin campaign was born. The fact that Harrison lived on a palatial estate along the Ohio River and that Tyler was well-to-do were ignored, while log cabin images appeared everywhere, from banners to whiskey bottles. Cider was the favored beverage of many farmers and tradesmen, and Whigs claimed that Harrison preferred that drink of the common man. Democrats complained that the Harrison/Tyler campaign's liberal provision of hard cider at rallies was encouraging drunkenness.\n\nThe presidential candidate's military service was emphasized, thus the well known campaign jingle, \"Tippecanoe and Tyler Too\", referring to Harrison's victory at the Battle of Tippecanoe. Glee clubs sprouted all over the country, singing patriotic and inspirational songs: one Democratic editor stated that he found the songfests in support of the Whig Party to be unforgettable. Among the lyrics sung were \"We shall vote for Tyler therefore/Without a why or wherefore\". Louis Hatch, in his history of the vice presidency, noted, \"the Whigs roared, sang, and hard-cidered the 'hero of Tippecanoe' into the White House\".\n\nClay, though embittered by another of his many defeats for the presidency, was appeased by Tyler's withdrawal from the still-unresolved Senate race, which would permit the election of Rives, and campaigned in Virginia for the Harrison/Tyler ticket. Tyler predicted the Whigs would easily take Virginia; he was embarrassed when he was proved wrong, but was consoled by an overall victory—Harrison and Tyler won by an electoral vote of 234–60 and with 53 percent of the popular vote. Van Buren took only seven scattered states out of 26. The Whigs gained control of both houses of Congress.\n\nAs vice president-elect, Tyler remained quietly at his home in Williamsburg. He privately expressed hopes that Harrison would prove decisive and not allow intrigue in the Cabinet, especially in the first days of the administration. Tyler did not participate in selecting the Cabinet, and did not recommend anyone for federal office in the new Whig administration. Harrison, beset by office seekers and the demands of Senator Clay, twice sent letters to Tyler asking his advice as to whether a Van Buren appointee should be dismissed. In both cases, Tyler recommended against, and Harrison wrote, \"Mr. Tyler says they ought not to be removed, and I will not remove them.\" The two men met briefly in Richmond in February, and reviewed a parade together, though they did not discuss politics.\n\nTyler was sworn in on March 4, 1841, in the Senate chamber, and delivered a three-minute speech about states' rights before swearing in the new senators and attending President Harrison's inauguration. Following Harrison's two-hour speech on that freezing March 4, the Vice President returned to the Senate to receive the President's Cabinet nominations, presiding over the confirmations the following day—a total of two hours as President of the Senate. Expecting few responsibilities, he then left Washington, quietly returning to his home in Williamsburg. Seager later wrote, \"Had William Henry Harrison lived, John Tyler would undoubtedly have been as obscure as any vice-president in American history.\"\n\nHarrison, meanwhile, struggled to keep up with the demands of Henry Clay and others who sought offices and influence in his administration. Harrison's old age and fading health were no secret during the campaign, and the question of the presidential succession was on every politician's mind. The first few weeks of the presidency took a toll on Harrison's health, and after being caught in a rainstorm in late March he came down with pneumonia and pleurisy. Secretary of State Daniel Webster sent word to Tyler of Harrison's illness on April 1; two days later, Richmond attorney James Lyons wrote with the news that the president had taken a turn for the worse, remarking that \"I shall not be surprised to hear by tomorrow's mail that Gen'l Harrison is no more.\" Tyler determined not to travel to Washington, not wanting to appear unseemly in anticipating the president's death. At dawn on April 5, Webster's son Fletcher, Chief Clerk of the State Department, arrived at Tyler's plantation with a letter from Webster, informing the new president of Harrison's death the morning before.\n\nHarrison's death in office was an unprecedented event that caused considerable uncertainty regarding presidential succession. Article II, Section 1, Clause 6 of the United States Constitution, which governed intra-term presidential succession at the time (now superseded by the Twenty-fifth Amendment), states that:\n\nInterpreting this Constitutional prescription led to the question of whether the actual office of president devolved upon Vice President Tyler, or merely its powers and duties. The Cabinet met within an hour of Harrison's death and, according to a later account, determined that Tyler would be \"Vice-President acting President\". However, Tyler firmly and decisively asserted that the Constitution gave him full and unqualified powers of office and had himself sworn in immediately as President, setting a critical precedent for an orderly transfer of power following a President's death. The presidential oath was administered by Judge William Cranch in Tyler's hotel room. He considered the oath redundant to his oath as vice president, but wished to quell any doubt over his accession. When he took office, Tyler, at 51, became the youngest president to that point.\n\n\"Fearing that he would alienate Harrison's supporters, Tyler decided to keep the dead President's entire cabinet even though several members were openly hostile to him and resented his assumption of the office.\" At his first cabinet meeting, Webster informed him of Harrison's practice of making policy by a majority vote. The Cabinet fully expected the new president to continue this practice. Tyler was astounded and immediately corrected them:\nTyler delivered an inaugural address before the Congress on April 9, in which he reasserted his belief in fundamental tenets of Jeffersonian democracy and limited federal power. Tyler's claim to be president was not immediately accepted by opposition members of Congress such as John Quincy Adams, who felt that Tyler should be a caretaker under the title of \"Acting President\", or remain vice president in name. Among those who questioned Tyler's authority was Clay, who had planned to be \"the real power behind a fumbling throne\" while Harrison was alive, and intended the same for Tyler. Clay saw Tyler as the \"vice-president\" and his presidency as a mere \"regency\".\nRatification of the decision by Congress came through the customary notification that it makes to the president, that it is in session and available to receive messages. In both houses, unsuccessful amendments were offered to strike the word \"president\" in favor of language including the term \"vice president\" to refer to Tyler. Mississippi Senator Robert J. Walker, in opposition, stated that the idea that Tyler was still vice president and could preside over the Senate was absurd.\n\nTyler's opponents never fully accepted him as president. He was referred to by many mocking nicknames, including \"His Accidency\". However, Tyler never wavered from his conviction that he was the rightful president; when his political opponents sent correspondence to the White House addressed to the \"vice president\" or \"acting president\", Tyler had it returned unopened.\n\nHarrison had been expected to adhere to Whig Party policies and to defer to party congressional leaders, particularly Clay. When Tyler succeeded him, he initially concurred with the new Whig Congress, signing into law the preemption bill granting \"squatters' sovereignty\" to settlers on public land, a Distribution Act (discussed below), a new bankruptcy law, and the repeal of the Independent Treasury. But when it came to the great banking question, Tyler was soon at odds with the Congressional Whigs, and twice vetoed Clay's legislation for a national banking act. Although the second bill was originally tailored to meet his objections in the first veto, its final version did not. This practice, designed to protect Clay from having a successful incumbent president as a rival for the Whig nomination in 1844, became known as \"heading Captain Tyler\", a term coined by Whig Representative John Minor Botts of Virginia. Tyler proposed an alternative fiscal plan known as the \"Exchequer\", but Clay's friends who controlled the Congress would have none of it.\n\nOn September 11, 1841 after the second bank veto, members of the cabinet entered Tyler's office one by one and resigned—an orchestration by Clay to force Tyler's resignation and place his own lieutenant, Senate President \"pro tempore\" Samuel L. Southard, in the White House. The only exception was Webster, who remained to finalize what became the 1842 Webster–Ashburton Treaty, and to demonstrate his independence from Clay. When told by Webster that he was willing to stay, Tyler is reported to have said, \"Give me your hand on that, and now I will say to you that Henry Clay is a doomed man.\" On September 13, when the president did not resign or give in, the Whigs in Congress expelled Tyler from the party. Tyler was lambasted by Whig newspapers and received hundreds of letters threatening his assassination. Whigs in Congress were so angry with Tyler that they refused to allocate funds to fix the White House, which had fallen into disrepair.\n\nBy mid-1841, the federal government faced a projected budget deficit of $11 million. Tyler recognized the need for higher tariffs, but wished to stay within the 20 percent rate created by the 1833 Compromise Tariff. He also supported a plan to distribute to the states any revenue from the sales of public land, as an emergency measure to manage the states' growing debt, even though this would cut federal revenue. The Whigs supported high protectionist tariffs and national funding of state infrastructure, and so there was enough overlap to forge a compromise. The Distribution Act of 1841 created a distribution program, with a ceiling on tariffs at 20 percent; a second bill increased tariffs to that figure on previously low-tax goods. Despite these measures, by March 1842 it had become clear that the federal government was still in dire fiscal straits.\n\nThe root of the trouble was an economic crisis—initiated by the Panic of 1837—which was entering its sixth year in 1842. A speculative bubble had burst in 1836–39, causing a collapse of the financial sector and a subsequent depression. The country became deeply divided over the best response to the crisis. Conditions got even worse in early 1842 because a deadline was looming. A decade earlier, when the economy was strong, Congress had promised Southern states that there would be a reduction in hated federal tariffs. Northern states welcomed tariffs, which protected their infant industries. But the South had no industrial base and depended on open access to British markets for their cotton. In a recommendation to Congress, Tyler lamented that it would be necessary to override the Compromise Tariff of 1833 and raise rates beyond the 20 percent limit. Under the previous deal, this would suspend the distribution program, with all revenues going to the federal government.\n\nThe defiant Whig Congress would not raise tariffs in a way that would affect the distribution of funds to states. In June 1842 they passed two bills that would raise tariffs and unconditionally extend the distribution program. Believing it improper to continue distribution at a time when federal revenue shortage necessitated increasing the tariff, Tyler vetoed both bills, burning any remaining bridges between himself and the Whigs. Congress tried again, combining the two into one bill; Tyler vetoed it again, to the dismay of many in Congress, who nevertheless failed to override the veto. As some action was necessary, Whigs in Congress, led by the House Ways and Means chairman Millard Fillmore, passed in each house (by one vote) a bill restoring tariffs to 1832 levels and ending the distribution program. Tyler signed the Tariff of 1842 on August 30, pocket vetoing a separate bill to restore distribution.\n\nShortly after the tariff vetoes, Whigs in the House of Representatives initiated that body's first impeachment proceedings against a president. The congressional ill will towards Tyler derived from the basis for his vetoes; until the presidency of the Whigs' arch-enemy Andrew Jackson, presidents rarely vetoed bills, and then only on grounds of constitutionality. Tyler's actions were in opposition to the presumed authority of Congress to make policy. Congressman John Botts, who opposed Tyler, introduced an impeachment resolution on July 10, 1842. It levied several charges against Tyler and called for a nine-member committee to investigate his behavior, with the expectation of a formal impeachment recommendation. Clay found this measure prematurely aggressive, and favored a more moderate progression toward Tyler's \"inevitable\" impeachment. The Botts resolution was tabled until the following January when it was rejected by a vote of 127 to 83.\n\nA House select committee headed by John Quincy Adams, an ardent abolitionist who disliked slaveholders like Tyler, condemned the president's use of the veto and assailed his character. While the committee's report did not formally recommend impeachment, it clearly established the possibility, and in August 1842 the House endorsed the committee's report. Adams sponsored a constitutional amendment to change both houses' two-thirds requirement (for overriding vetoes) to a simple majority, but neither house approved. The Whigs were unable to pursue further impeachment proceedings in the subsequent 28th Congress—in the elections of 1842 they retained a majority in the Senate but lost control of the House. Near the end of Tyler's term in office, on March 3, 1845, Congress overrode his veto of a minor bill relating to revenue cutters—the first override of a presidential veto.\n\nThe battles between Tyler and the Whigs in Congress resulted in a number of his cabinet nominees being rejected. He received little support from Democrats and, without much support from either major party in Congress, a number of his nominations were rejected without regard for the qualifications of the nominee. It was then unprecedented to reject a president's nominees for his Cabinet (though in 1809, James Madison withheld the nomination of Albert Gallatin as Secretary of State because of opposition in the Senate). Four of Tyler's Cabinet nominees were rejected, the most of any president. These were Caleb Cushing (Treasury), David Henshaw (Navy) James Porter (War), and James S. Green (Treasury). Henshaw and Porter served as recess appointees before their rejections. Tyler repeatedly renominated Cushing, who was rejected three times in one day, March 3, 1843, the last day of the 27th Congress. No cabinet nomination failed after Tyler's term until Henry Stanbery's nomination as Attorney General was rejected by the Senate in 1868.\n\nTyler's difficulties in domestic policy contrasted with notable accomplishments in foreign policy. He had long been an advocate of expansionism toward the Pacific and free trade, and was fond of evoking themes of national destiny and the spread of liberty in support of these policies. His positions were largely in line with Jackson's earlier efforts to promote American commerce across the Pacific. Eager to compete with Great Britain in international markets, he sent lawyer Caleb Cushing to China, where he negotiated the terms of the Treaty of Wanghia (1844). The same year, he sent Henry Wheaton as a minister to Berlin, where he negotiated and signed a trade agreement with the \"Zollverein\", a coalition of German states that managed tariffs. This treaty was rejected by the Whigs, mainly as a show of hostility toward the Tyler administration.\n\nIn an 1842 special message to Congress, the president also applied the Monroe Doctrine to Hawaii (dubbed the \"Tyler Doctrine\"), told Britain not to interfere there, and began a process that led to the eventual annexation of Hawaii by the United States.\n\nIn 1842 Secretary of State Daniel Webster negotiated with Britain the Webster–Ashburton Treaty, which determined the border between Maine and Canada. That issue had caused tension between the United States and Britain for decades and had brought the two countries to the brink of war on several occasions. Though the treaty improved Anglo-American diplomatic relations, Tyler was nevertheless unsuccessful in concluding a treaty with the British to fix the boundaries of Oregon. On Tyler's last full day in office, March 3, 1845, Florida was admitted to the Union as the 27th state.\n\nTyler advocated an increase in military strength and this drew praise from naval leaders, who saw a marked increase in warships. Tyler brought the long, bloody Second Seminole War to an end in 1842, and expressed interest in the forced cultural assimilation of Native Americans. He also advocated the establishment of a chain of American forts from Council Bluffs, Iowa to the Pacific.\n\nIn May 1842 when the Dorr Rebellion in Rhode Island came to a head, Tyler pondered the request of the governor and legislature to send in federal troops to help suppress it. The insurgents under Thomas Dorr had armed themselves and proposed to install a new state constitution. Before such acts, Rhode Island had been following the same constitutional structure that was established in 1663. Tyler called for calm on both sides, and recommended that the governor enlarge the franchise to let most men vote. Tyler promised that in case an actual insurrection should break out in Rhode Island he would employ force to aid the regular, or Charter, government. He made it clear that federal assistance would be given only to put down an insurrection once underway, and would not be available until violence had taken place. After listening to reports from his confidential agents, Tyler decided that the 'lawless assemblages' had dispersed and expressed his confidence in a \"temper of conciliation as well as of energy and decision\" without need of federal forces. The rebels fled the state when the state militia marched against them, but the incident led to broader suffrage in the state.\n\nTwo vacancies occurred on the Supreme Court during Tyler's presidency, as Justices Smith Thompson and Henry Baldwin died in 1843 and 1844, respectively. Tyler, ever at odds with Congress—including the Whig-controlled Senate—nominated several men to the Supreme Court to fill these seats. However, the Senate successively voted against confirming John C. Spencer, Reuben Walworth, Edward King and John M. Read (Walworth was rejected three times, King rejected twice). One reason cited for the Senate's actions was the hope that Clay would fill the vacancies after winning the 1844 presidential election. Tyler's four unsuccessful nominees are the most by a president.\n\nFinally, in February 1845, with less than a month remaining in his term, Tyler's nomination of Samuel Nelson to Thompson's seat was confirmed by the Senate—Nelson, a Democrat, had a reputation as a careful and noncontroversial jurist. Still, his confirmation came as a surprise. Baldwin's seat remained vacant until James K. Polk's nominee, Robert Grier, was confirmed in 1846.\n\nTyler was able to appoint only six other federal judges, all to United States district courts.\n\nTyler made the annexation of the Republic of Texas part of his agenda soon after becoming president. Texas had declared independence from Mexico in the Texas Revolution of 1836, although Mexico still refused to acknowledge its sovereignty. The people of Texas actively pursued joining the Union, but Jackson and Van Buren had been reluctant to inflame tensions over slavery by annexing another Southern state. Though Tyler intended annexation to be the focal point of his administration, Secretary Webster was opposed, and convinced Tyler to concentrate on Pacific initiatives until later in his term. Tyler's desire for western expansionism is acknowledged by historians and scholars, but views differ regarding the motivations behind it. Biographer Edward C. Crapol notes that during the presidency of James Monroe, Tyler (then in the House of Representatives) had suggested slavery was a \"dark cloud\" hovering over the Union, and that it would be \"well to disperse this cloud\" so that with fewer blacks in the older slave states, a process of gradual emancipation would begin in Virginia and other upper Southern states. Historian William W. Freehling, however, wrote that Tyler's official motivation in annexing Texas was to outmaneuver suspected efforts by Great Britain to promote an emancipation of slaves in Texas that would weaken the institution in the United States.\n\nIn early 1843, having completed the Webster–Ashburton treaty and other diplomatic efforts, Tyler felt ready to pursue Texas. Now lacking a party base, he saw annexation of the republic as his only pathway to independent re-election in 1844. For the first time in his career he was willing to play \"political hardball\" to see it through. As a trial balloon he dispatched his ally Thomas Walker Gilmer, then a U.S. Representative from Virginia, to publish a letter defending annexation, which was well received. Despite his successful relationship with Webster, Tyler knew he would need a Secretary of State who supported the Texas initiative. With the work on the British treaty now completed, he forced Webster's resignation and installed Hugh S. Legaré of South Carolina as an interim successor.\n\nWith the help of newly appointed Treasury Secretary John C. Spencer, Tyler cleared out an array of officeholders, replacing them with pro-annexation partisans, in a reversal of his former stand against patronage. He elicited the help of political organizer Michael Walsh to build a political machine in New York. In exchange for an appointment as consul to Hawaii, journalist Alexander G. Abell wrote a flattering biography, \"Life of John Tyler\", which was printed in large quantities and given to postmasters to distribute. Seeking to rehabilitate his public image, Tyler embarked on a nationwide tour in the spring of 1843. The positive reception of the public at these events contrasted with his ostracism back in Washington. The tour centered on the dedication of the Bunker Hill Monument in Boston, Massachusetts. Shortly after the dedication, Tyler learned of Legaré's sudden death, which dampened the festivities and caused him to cancel the rest of the tour.\n\nTyler appointed Abel P. Upshur, a popular Secretary of the Navy and close adviser, as his new Secretary of State, and nominated Gilmer to fill Upshur's former office. Tyler and Upshur began quiet negotiations with the Texas government, promising military protection from Mexico in exchange for a commitment to annexation. Secrecy was necessary, as the Constitution required congressional approval for such military commitments. Upshur planted rumors of possible British designs on Texas to garner support among Northern voters, who were wary of admitting a new pro-slavery state. By January 1844 Upshur told the Texas government that he had found a large majority of senators in favor of an annexation treaty. The republic remained skeptical, and finalization of the treaty took until the end of February.\n\nA ceremonial cruise down the Potomac River was held aboard the newly built on February 28, 1844, the day after completion of the annexation treaty. Aboard the ship were 400 guests, including Tyler and his cabinet, as was the world's largest naval gun, the \"Peacemaker.\" The gun was ceremoniously fired several times in the afternoon to the great delight of the onlookers, who then filed downstairs to offer a toast. Several hours later, Captain Robert F. Stockton was convinced by the crowd to fire one more shot. As the guests moved up to the deck, Tyler paused briefly to watch his son-in-law, William Waller, sing a ditty.\n\nAt once an explosion was heard from above: the gun had malfunctioned. Tyler was unhurt, having remained safely below deck, but a number of others were killed instantly, including his crucial cabinet members, Gilmer and Upshur. Also killed or mortally wounded were Virgil Maxcy of Maryland, Rep. David Gardiner of New York, Commodore Beverley Kennon, Chief of Construction of the United States Navy, and Armistead, Tyler's black slave and body servant. The death of David Gardiner had a devastating effect on his daughter, Julia, who fainted and was carried to safety by the president himself. Julia later recovered from her grief and married Tyler.\n\nFor Tyler, any hope of completing the Texas plan before November (and with it, any hope of re-election) was instantly dashed. Historian Edward P. Crapol later wrote that \"Prior to the Civil War and the assassination of Abraham Lincoln,\" the \"Princeton\" disaster \"unquestionably was the most severe and debilitating tragedy ever to confront a President of the United States.\"\n\nIn what the Miller Center of Public Affairs considers \"a serious tactical error that ruined the scheme [of establishing political respectability for him]\", Tyler appointed former Vice President John C. Calhoun in early March 1844 as his Secretary of State. Tyler's good friend, Virginia Representative Henry A. Wise, wrote that following the \"Princeton\" disaster, Wise on his own volition extended Calhoun the position as a self-appointed emissary of the president and Calhoun accepted. When Wise went to tell Tyler what he had done, the president was angry but felt that the action had to stand. Calhoun was a leading advocate of slavery, and his attempts to get an annexation treaty passed were resisted by abolitionists as a result. When the text of the treaty was leaked to the public, it met political opposition from the Whigs, who opposed anything that might enhance Tyler's status, as well as from foes of slavery and those who feared a confrontation with Mexico, which had announced that it would view annexation as a hostile act by the United States. Both Clay and Van Buren, the respective frontrunners for the Whig and Democratic nominations, decided in a private meeting at Van Buren's home to come out against annexation. Knowing this, Tyler was pessimistic when he sent the treaty to the Senate for ratification in April 1844.\n\nFollowing Tyler's break with the Whigs in 1841, he attempted a return to his old Democratic party, but its members, especially the followers of Van Buren, were not ready to accept him. He knew that, with little chance of election, the only way to salvage his presidential legacy was to move public opinion in favor of the Texas issue. He formed a third party, the Democratic-Republicans, using the officeholders and political networks he had built over the previous year. Multiple supportive newspapers across the country issued editorials promoting his candidacy throughout the early months of 1844. Reports of meetings held throughout the country suggest that support for the president was not limited to officeholders, as is widely assumed. Just as the Democratic Party was holding its presidential nomination in Baltimore, Maryland, the Tyler supporters, in that very city, were holding signs reading \"Tyler and Texas!\", and with their own high visibility and energy they gave Tyler their nomination. His new Democratic-Republican Party renominated Tyler for the presidency on May 27, 1844.\n\nRegular Democrats were forced to call for annexation of Texas in their platform, but there was a bitter battle for the presidential nomination. Ballot after ballot, Van Buren failed to win the necessary super-majority of Democratic votes, and slowly fell in the rankings. It was not until the ninth ballot that the Democrats turned their sights to James K. Polk, a less prominent candidate who supported annexation. They found him to be perfectly suited for their platform, and he was nominated with two-thirds of the vote. Tyler considered his work vindicated, and implied in an acceptance letter that annexation was his true priority rather than election.\n\nTyler was unfazed when the Whig-controlled Senate rejected his treaty by a vote of 16–35 in June 1844; he felt that annexation was now within reach by joint resolution rather than by treaty, and made that request to the congress. Former President Andrew Jackson, a staunch supporter of annexation, persuaded Polk to welcome Tyler back into the Democratic party and ordered Democratic editors to cease their attacks on him. Satisfied by these developments, Tyler dropped out of the race in August and endorsed Polk for the presidency. Polk's narrow victory over Clay in the November election was seen by the Tyler administration as a mandate for completing the resolution. Tyler announced in his annual message to Congress that \"a controlling majority of the people and a large majority of the states have declared in favor of immediate annexation.\" In late February 1845, the House approved a joint resolution offering annexation to Texas by a substantial margin—the Senate approved by a bare 27–25 majority, and three days before the end of his term, Tyler signed the bill into law. After some debate, Texas accepted the terms and entered the union on December 29, 1845, as the 28th state.\n\nTyler fathered more children than any other American president. His first wife was Letitia Christian (November 12, 1790 – September 10, 1842), with whom he had eight children: Mary (1815–1847), Robert (1816–1877), John (1819–1896), Letitia (1821–1907), Elizabeth (1823–1850), Anne (1825–1825), Alice (1827–1854) and Tazewell (1830–1874).\n\nAlthough Tyler's family was dear to him, during his political rise he was often away from home for extended periods. When Tyler chose not to seek re-election to the House of Representatives in 1821 because of illness, he wrote that he would soon be called upon to educate his growing family. It was difficult to practice law while away in Washington part of the year, and his plantation was more profitable when Tyler was available to manage it himself. By the time he entered the Senate in 1827, he had resigned himself to spending part of the year away from his family. Still, he sought to remain close to his children through letters.\n\nTyler was a slaveholder, at one point keeping forty slaves at Greenway. Although he regarded slavery as an evil, and did not attempt to justify it, he never freed any of his slaves. Tyler considered slavery a part of states' rights, and therefore the federal government lacked the authority to abolish it. The living conditions of his slaves are not well documented, but historians surmise that he cared for their well-being and abstained from physical violence against them. In December 1841, Tyler was attacked by abolitionist publisher Joshua Leavitt, with the unsubstantiated allegation that Tyler had fathered several sons with his slaves, and later sold them. A number of African American families today maintain a belief in their descent from Tyler, but there is no evidence of such genealogy.\n\n, Tyler has two living grandsons through his son Lyon Gardiner Tyler, making him the earliest former president with living grandchildren. Lyon Gardiner Tyler Jr. was born in 1924, and Harrison Ruffin Tyler was born in 1928. Lyon Tyler Jr. resides in Franklin, Tennessee, and Harrison Tyler maintains the family home, Sherwood Forest Plantation, in Charles City County, Virginia.\n\nTyler retired to a Virginia plantation, originally named Walnut Grove (or \"the Grove\"), located on the James River in Charles City County. He renamed it Sherwood Forest, in a reference to the folk legend Robin Hood, to signify that he had been \"outlawed\" by the Whig Party. He did not take farming lightly and worked hard to maintain large yields. His neighbors, largely Whigs, appointed him to the minor office of overseer of roads in 1847 in an effort to mock him. To their displeasure he treated the job seriously, frequently summoning his neighbors to provide their slaves for road work, and continuing to insist on carrying out his duties even after his neighbors asked him to stop.\n\nThe former president spent his time in a manner common to Virginia's First Families, including parties, visiting or being visited by other aristocrats, and spending summers at the family seaside home, \"Villa Margaret\". He withdrew from politics, rarely receiving visits from his former allies, and was not sought out as an adviser. Occasionally requested to deliver a public speech, Tyler spoke during the unveiling of a monument to Henry Clay. He acknowledged their political battles, but spoke highly of his former colleague, whom he had always admired for bringing about the Compromise Tariff of 1833.\nAfter John Brown's raid on Harpers Ferry ignited fears of an abolitionist attempt to free the slaves, or an actual slave rebellion, several Virginia communities organized militia units, or reenergized existing ones. Tyler's community organized a cavalry troop and a home guard company; Tyler was chosen to command the home guard troops with the rank of captain.\n\nOn the eve of the Civil War, Tyler re-entered public life as a participant in the Virginia Peace Conference held in Washington, D.C., in February 1861 as an effort to devise means to prevent a war. The convention sought a compromise to avoid civil war even as the Confederate Constitution was being drawn up at the Montgomery Convention. Despite his leadership role in the Peace Conference, Tyler opposed its final resolutions. He felt that they were written by the free state delegates, did not protect the rights of slave owners in the territories, and would do little to bring back the lower South and restore the Union. He voted against the conference's seven resolutions, which the conference sent to Congress for approval late in February 1861 as a proposed Constitutional amendment.\n\nOn the same day the Peace Conference started, local voters elected Tyler to the Virginia Secession Convention. He presided over the opening session on February 13, 1861, while the Peace Conference was still under way. Tyler abandoned hope of compromise and saw secession as the only option, predicting that a clean split of all Southern states would not result in war. In mid-March he spoke against the Peace Conference resolutions, and on April 4 he voted for secession even when the convention rejected it. On April 17, after the attack on Fort Sumter and Lincoln's call for troops, Tyler voted with the new majority for secession. He headed a committee that negotiated the terms for Virginia's entry into the Confederate States of America and helped set the pay rate for military officers. On June 14, Tyler signed the Ordinance of Secession, and one week later the convention unanimously elected him to the Provisional Confederate Congress. Tyler was seated in the Confederate Congress on August 1, 1861, and he served until just before his death in 1862. In November 1861, he was elected to the Confederate House of Representatives but he died in his room at the Ballard Hotel in Richmond before the first session could open in February 1862.\n\nThroughout Tyler's life, he suffered from poor health. As he aged, he suffered more frequently from colds during the winter. On January 12, 1862, after complaining of chills and dizziness, he vomited and collapsed. Despite treatment, his health failed to improve, and he made plans to return to Sherwood Forest by the 18th. As he lay in bed the night before, he began suffocating, and Julia summoned his doctor. Just after midnight, Tyler took a sip of brandy, and told his doctor, \"I am going. Perhaps it is best.\" He died shortly thereafter, most likely due to a stroke.\n\nTyler's death was the only one in presidential history not to be officially recognized in Washington, because of his allegiance to the Confederacy. He had requested a simple burial, but Confederate President Jefferson Davis devised a grand, politically pointed funeral, painting Tyler as a hero to the new nation. Accordingly, at his funeral, the coffin of the tenth president of the United States was draped with a Confederate flag; he remains the only U.S. president ever laid to rest under a foreign flag.\n\nTyler was buried in Hollywood Cemetery in Richmond, Virginia, near the gravesite of former President James Monroe. Tyler has since been the namesake of several U.S. locations, including the city of Tyler, Texas, named for him because of his role in the annexation of Texas.\n\nTyler's presidency has provoked highly divided responses among political commentators. It is generally held in low esteem by historians; Edward P. Crapol began his biography \"John Tyler, the Accidental President\" (2006) by noting: \"Other biographers and historians have argued that John Tyler was a hapless and inept chief executive whose presidency was seriously flawed.\" In \"The Republican Vision of John Tyler\" (2003), Dan Monroe observed that the Tyler presidency \"is generally ranked as one of the least successful\". Seager wrote that Tyler \"was neither a great president nor a great intellectual,\" adding that despite a few achievements, \"his administration has been and must be counted an unsuccessful one by any modern measure of accomplishment\". A survey of historians conducted by C-SPAN in 2017 ranked Tyler as 39th of 43 men to hold the office.\n\nTyler's assumption of complete presidential powers \"set a hugely important precedent\", according to a biographical sketch by the University of Virginia's Miller Center of Public Affairs. Tyler's successful insistence that he was president, and not a caretaker or acting president, was a model for the succession of seven other presidents over the 19th and 20th centuries. The propriety of Tyler's action in assuming both the title of the presidency and its full powers was legally affirmed in 1967, when it was codified in the Twenty-fifth Amendment to the United States Constitution.\n\nSome scholars in recent years have praised Tyler's foreign policy. Monroe credits him with \"achievements like the Webster–Ashburton treaty which heralded the prospect of improved relations with Great Britain, and the annexation of Texas, which added millions of acres to the national domain.\" Crapol argued that Tyler \"was a stronger and more effective president than generally remembered\", while Seager wrote, \"I find him to be a courageous, principled man, a fair and honest fighter for his beliefs. He was a president without a party.\" Author Ivan Eland, in an update of his 2008 book \"Recarving Rushmore\", rated all 44 US presidents by the criteria of peace, prosperity, and liberty; with the finished ratings, John Tyler was ranked the best president of all time. Louis Kleber, in his article in \"History Today\", pointed out that Tyler brought integrity to the White House at a time when many in politics lacked it, and refused to compromise his principles to avoid the anger of his opponents. Crapol argues that Tyler's allegiance to the Confederacy overshadows much of the good he did as president: \"John Tyler's historical reputation has yet to fully recover from that tragic decision to betray his loyalty and commitment to what he had once defined as 'the first great American interest'—the preservation of the Union.\"\n\nNorma Lois Peterson, in her book on Tyler's presidency, suggested that Tyler's general lack of success as president was due to external factors that would have affected whoever was in the White House. Chief among them was Henry Clay, who was determined to realize the vision he had for America, and who would brook no opposition. In the aftermath of Jackson's determined use of the powers of the Executive Branch, the Whigs wanted the president to be dominated by Congress, and Clay treated Tyler as a subordinate. Tyler resented this, leading to the conflict between the branches that dominated his presidency. Pointing to Tyler's advances in foreign policy, she deemed Tyler's presidency \"flawed ... but ... not a failure\".\n\nWhile academics have both praised and criticized Tyler, the general American public has little awareness of him at all. Several writers have portrayed Tyler as among the nation's most obscure presidents. As Seager remarked: \"His countrymen generally remember him, if they have heard of him at all, as the rhyming end of a catchy campaign slogan.\"\n\nExplanatory notes\nBibliography\n\nBooks\n\nArticles\nArchival collections\nCitations\n"}
{"id": "1233164", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233164", "title": "José Alencar", "text": "José Alencar\n\nJosé Alencar Gomes da Silva (; 17 October 1931 – 29 March 2011) was a Brazilian businessman and politician who served as the Vice President of Brazil from 1 January 2003 to 31 December 2010. In business from a young age, Alencar became a self-made multimillionaire as the chief executive of Coteminas, a leading textile manufacturer. In the 1990s, Alencar groomed his son to succeed him at the company.\n\nHe opted to enter politics in his home state, Minas Gerais. Alencar had a business-oriented political platform, advocating market liberalization and deregulation of production. His expensive political campaigns received hefty funds from Coteminas. After a failed run in 1994 for governor of Minas Gerais, he won the election in 1998 as Senator representing his home state.\n\nIn 2002, Alencar was invited by the left-wing Workers' Party to run for Vice President on the same ticket as Luiz Inácio Lula da Silva. The alliance between the leftist union leader and Alencar, an experienced entrepreneur, proved successful. They won the presidential elections in 2002 and were re-elected in 2006. Over the years, Lula da Silva and Alencar developed a close and affectionate friendship. Diagnosed with cancer of the stomach and kidney in 1997, Alencar died of the disease in 2011.\n\nAlencar came to be revered among journalists and politicians for his spirited personality and friendly demeanor. He overcame his lack of formal education. Based on his business success, he argued in favor of lower taxes, especially indirect taxation over consumers, and a simpler tax system; lower interest rates and greater oversight of the banking industry; and social welfare and assistance programs. As Vice President, Alencar sometimes spoke out against his own government's orthodox policies, causing embarrassment for fellow administration members. His unwavering determination to live in the face of terminal cancer also marked public perception, during and after his time in office.\n\nAlencar was born into a family of small entrepreneurs from Muriaé, in the inland state of Minas Gerais on 17 October 1931. He was the eleventh son of Antônio Gomes da Silva and Dolores Peres Gomes da Silva. As a child, he was a Boy Scout.\n\nHe started working while still a child, dropping out of primary school to help his father in the family business. He worked with his older brothers for years before becoming an independent successful businessman. For a time he worked as a travelling salesman and in food wholesale start-ups.\n\nAfter getting established, Alencar married Mariza Gomes in 1957. They had three children together. Their two daughters are Maria da Graça and Patrícia. Their son Josué took over the presidency of Coteminas after his father went into politics.\n\nAs a result of a case filed by Rosemary de Morais, a 55-year-old retired teacher, in July 2010 the court ruled that Alencar needed to recognize her as his daughter. (The case may be appealed.) He had refused to undergo DNA testing but, according to Brazilian law 12.004/2009, this refusal is accepted as evidence of paternity. In addition, the judge ruled that other evidence in the case led him to his decision. Rosemary de Morais said she was the child of Francisca de Morais, a nurse, and Alencar, from a relationship they had in 1954, before either was married. The legal case over Morais' parentage is still ongoing, as there are some appeal rights.\n\nAlencar eventually turned his family's small clothes factory and retail store into a major business. In 1967, he founded Coteminas, which he would lead to become one of Brazil's largest textile manufacturers. He produced goods for traditional brands in its portfolio, such as Artex, Santista and Calfat. He vied for dominance of the global market after a merger with South Carolina-based Springs Industries.\n\nAfter decades as a businessman, Alencar decided to enter politics and prepared his son to take over his leadership of Coteminas. He ran for governor of Minas Gerais in 1994. Although he was not successful, in 1998 he was elected as Senator from Minas Gerais. While in the Senate, Alencar worked on several Commissions, including the Senatorial Commission for Economic and Social Matters.\n\nIn 2002, he left the presidency of his company, by then a leading player with roughly 850 million reais in yearly net sales, to his son Josué Gomes da Silva. \nAlencar ran for Vice President of Brazil, tapped to be Lula's running mate, to assuage worries about the candidate's alleged anti-business bias. He became the honorary President of the center-right Liberal Party.\n\nAt the end of 2005, Alencar left his party to associate with the new Brazilian Republican Party, whose founders included Bishop Marcelo Crivella of the Universal Church of the Kingdom of God, a large and growing evangelical church in Brazil and other countries. Crivella is also a Senator representing Rio de Janeiro in the federal government.\n\nIn office, Alencar aligned with another successful businessman in the cabinet, Luiz Fernando Furlan, to channel the demands of Brazilian businessmen. They voiced discontent with bureaucracy, insufficient infrastructure and cautious monetary policy. His efforts led to the strengthening of Apex-Brasil, a pro-export agency seen as instrumental in the Brazilian economy's recent rise in exports.\n\nAlencar was the most notable person in government to openly complain of the conservative monetary policies of the Brazilian Central Bank, under Henrique Meirelles, backed by ministers Antonio Palocci and Paulo Bernardo. He often criticized his own administration for failing to lower the Central Bank's base interest rates and demanded a reform of the country's tax system.\n\nIn November 2004 he was sworn in as Defense Minister, following the resignation of José Viegas Filho. Lula turned to him to occupy the position. Alencar tried to resign on several occasions, claiming that a businessman would hardly be the best choice for running a nation's military forces. President Lula convinced him to stay until March 2006, when Alencar resigned his ministerial post, in favor of anti-graft activist Waldir Pires.\n\nDespite his disagreements with some policies of the Lula administration, Alencar was officially invited by Lula to be his running mate in the 2006 general elections. With Lula's re-election victory on 29 October, Alencar secured his position as Vice President for another term. Alencar adopted a lower tone, while still espousing his traditional positions. He sought to run for the Senate in 2010, but was forced to give up due to the advanced stage of his cancer disease.\n\nOn a routine check-up, José Alencar was diagnosed with stomach and kidney cancer in 1997. After undergoing treatment for some length of time, he had his right kidney and two-thirds of his stomach surgically removed. Five years later, a malignant tumor in his prostate was removed. As the disease had metastasized, it continued to spread, and in 2006 doctors discovered a sarcoma in his abdomen. On 26 January 2009, a surgery extirpated eight tumors, along with compromised portions of his small and large intestines and the ureters. He was treated for digestive hemorrhage in December 2010 with urgent surgery, his last as Vice President. Doctors could not remove the tumors in his abdomen because of the number of operations to which he had already been subjected – eighteen in all. Alencar received chemotherapy for many years. He was mostly treated at Hospital Sírio-Libanês, in São Paulo. He also received experimental treatment at the M.D. Anderson Cancer Center in Houston, Texas.\n\nAlencar died in late March 2011, in the city of São Paulo, after 13 years battling metastasized cancer. His death was met with expressions of grief and respect by members of different institutions and across the political spectrum – former President Lula said he knew \"few men with José Alencar's goodness and spirit\" and President Rousseff said it was an \"honor\" to have served alongside him. Brazil held a state funeral for José Alencar, and Vice President Michel Temer decreed seven days of official mourning. Alencar is remembered as an honest and independent politician who favored social welfare and economic freedom.\n"}
{"id": "6010632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6010632", "title": "Koreatown Immigrant Workers Alliance", "text": "Koreatown Immigrant Workers Alliance\n\nThe Koreatown Immigrant Workers Alliance 한인타운 노동연대 (KIWA, pronounced kee-wah), also known under its past name Korean Immigrant Workers Advocates 남가주 한인 노동 상담소, is a multi-ethnic immigrant worker civil rights membership organization based in the Los Angeles Koreatown area.\n\nKIWA was founded in 1992 by progressive minded Korean activists who saw class as the basic contradiction of the immigrant communities in Koreatown. It has since been involved in the aftermath of the 1992 Los Angeles Civil Unrest, campaigns to improve working conditions and immigrant worker empowerment in various Korean ethnic industries, the living wages campaign, and Koreatown's multi-ethnic community developments.\n\nKIWA is perhaps best known recently for its long campaign against Assi Market, the largest ethnic Korean-owned supermarket of the United States, located in Koreatown. Started in the late 1990s, KIWA demands that Assi management rehire dozens of fired Latino and Korean workers who were fired for trying to organize a trade union.\n\nAlthough initially staffed mostly by ethnic Koreans, KIWA grew to encompass Asian-Pacific American and Latino organizers and members. The Spanish language \"Alianza de trabajadores inmigrantes del Barrio Coreano\" had been in common use since the early 2000s; however the English language name was officially changed in March 2006 from \"Korean Immigrant Workers Advocates\" to \"Koreatown Immigrant Workers Alliance\". The Korean language \"한인노동상담소\" (Korean Worker's Center) has been changed to 한인타운 노동연대 to signify its geographical focus rather than on an ethnic group.\n\nKIWA is a member organization of MIWON (Multi-Ethnic Immigrant Workers Alliance ), an alliance of four (formerly five) immigrant workers' centers in the Los Angeles area, and ENLACE, a U.S.-Mexico network of workers' centers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15233543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15233543", "title": "Lang Law", "text": "Lang Law\n\nLang Law is the informal name given to French law number 81-766, from 10 August 1981, relating to book prices. The law establishes a fixed price for books sold in France, limiting price discounts on them. The law is named after Jack Lang, the French Minister of Culture at the time.\n\nThe Lang Law works as follows:\n\n\nThe Lang Law was passed under pressure from small booksellers, who feared competition from big stores.\n\nSimilar Fixed Book Price Laws exist in other countries, namely Austria, Denmark, Germany, Greece, Hungary, Italy, The Netherlands, Portugal, and Spain.\n\nIn other cases, the book price is kept fixed by an agreement between the publishers and the booksellers. This was the case of the Net Book Agreement in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Lang Law was extended to cover e-books in May 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "28669647", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28669647", "title": "Mary R. Koch", "text": "Mary R. Koch\n\nThe Mary R. Koch was a 274.330 Mt combined ore carrier and oil tanker. The ship was named after Mary Robinson Koch, wife of American industrialist Fred C. Koch.\n\nThe \"Mary R. Koch\" was built at the Uljanik, Brodogradiliste l Tvornica Dizel Motora shipyard in Pula in Socialist Federal Republic of Yugoslavia, (now Croatia). Her two sister ships, the \"Tafala\" and the \"Torne\" were delivered to the Swedish company Trafikaktiebolaget Grengesberg in 1974. A further sister-ship named Kanchenjunga was built as a pure oil carrier with no ore capability.\n\nUnder Greek management the Mary R. Koch (callsign A8QU) was time-chartered to Exxon for three years from going into service. Subsequently she made spot voyages arranged by the oil-trading division of Koch Industries. Around 1980 Koch Shipping was created and the Mary R. Koch was managed directly from Wichita, with officers and crew being supplied by an agency in Piraeus. Due to severe corrosion problems with piping in the 'void space' double bottom the ship transferred to the bulk-ore trade in the early 80s.\n\nThe four ships of this design were built to prove the practicality of the KaMeWa variable pitch propellor system in high SHP applications. Although the system did function well the high initial and subsequent maintenance costs associated with having two 20,000 HP B&W diesel engines, together with the inferior steel used for the cargo piping, compounded by the depressed tanker market at the time, meant that they were never viable economically.\n\n"}
{"id": "40199503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40199503", "title": "Micro-MBA", "text": "Micro-MBA\n\nThe Micro-MBA is a learner-driven, outcomes-based entrepreneurial course based on classroom session followed by pro-active mentoring meetings. The programme aims to teach entrepreneurs, mostly in developing countries, fundamental business skills thus they can operate their businesses successfully. The term \"Micro-MBA\" refers to the traditional Master of Business Administration (MBA) programme. There is no official definition for the term Micro-MBA. The course programme focuses on teaching theory about subjects as money management, stock control, customer handling, and marketing that can be applied in the daily business activities of the business owners.\n\nThe main aim of the Micro-MBA programme is to provide small business owners with basic business skills, which they can apply in their daily activities to grow and sustain their businesses. Furthermore, it is supposed to empower them to become self-employed.\n\nThe offered the first Micro-MBA programme in 1988 and it was aimed at business owners who had limited access to further education in South Africa. The programme focuses on teaching students basic business skills in class and mentoring sessions after completing the classes at their marketplaces. The main aim of the course has been to enable small business owners to operate their businesses more successfully or to start their own business.\nSince its formation more than 160,000 people have successfully completed the Micro-MBA course, which has been offered by some 250 organisations who have had their trainers trained by Trident Institute. Different surveys have shown that between 67% and 81% of former programme students are still successful with their own business or participating in the labour market 18 months after completing the course. \nThe programme has become a successful education tool in basic economic development in South Africa and has spread to other African and Asian countries. The course has been described by the London Financial Times as \"Brilliantly Simple and Simply Brilliant!\". \nThe founder and CEO of Trident Institute, Cedric Buffler, won the award for Outstanding Social Entrepreneur for 2007 by the Schwab Foundation.\nThe Micro-MBA has not only spread from South Africa to neighbouring African countries (Swaziland, Lesotho, Namibia, Zambia, Kenya, Ghana and Nigeria) but also to Asia and South America. Characteristic of these markets is that poor people with small businesses do not have access to supportive business theory and knowledge.\n\nMost organizations that offer Micro-MBA are founded or sponsored by Nonprofit Organizations. Admissions criteria vary. But mostly it is generally required that participants already have an existing business or a business idea that they want to realize after the course. No specific academic qualifications are required. The most important requirements are high motivation levels and the will to apply the learning to their businesses. Interviews are conducted before choosing applicants to guarantee that they take the opportunity serious. Most of the courses are free of charge but this depends on the programme, course design, and the organization.\n\nMicro-MBA is an outcomes-based, learner-driven course. The classroom learning takes about 35 hours to complete and this is followed by a period of mentoring. This varies, depending on the requirements set by the implementing organisation. The duration of the courses varies from three weeks of classes combined with nine months of mentoring training to three months of classes with additional mentoring training. Facilitators are trained by Trident Institute and are typically business owners or trainers employed by community-based organisations. Mentoring and coaching, in terms of visiting students at their marketplace, after the course, ensures the long-term success of the programme. The course materials are simple as e.g. workbooks and calculators. \nThe course comprises 8 simple workbooks, which are accessible to persons with a grade 6 level of literacy:\n\nWorkbooks and bookkeeping materials are available in three variants, for Traders, Producers and Service `providers. Facilitators are trained to offer all three options. Only organisations that have had their facilitators certificated by ~Trident institute are permitted to purchase training materials.\n\n\nOrganizations offering Micro-MBAs\n\nAccreditation\n\nLiterature\n"}
{"id": "49723062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49723062", "title": "Mohammad Ali Sarlak", "text": "Mohammad Ali Sarlak\n\nPh.D: Organizational Behavior Management, University of Tehran, 2005.\n\nM.B.A: University of Tehran, 1995.\n\nB.S: Business Administration, University of Tehran, 1993.\n\nMuch of prof. sarlak's works concentrated on Advancing the boundaries of management knowledge. Some of his new ideas and conceptualizations are as follows:\n\n- The organization’s face\n\n- The organizational Rip currents.\n\n- The Commotion–result Theory . .\n\n- Management by Reaction .\n\n- The organizational Climate Inversion .\n\n- The Behavioral Entropy .\n\n- The organizational Life Expectancy .\n\n- President of Payame Noor University (PNU) (2014–2015).\n\n- President of Post Graduate Center of Payame Noor University (2007–Present).\n\n- A member of Executive Committee of AAOU (Asian Association of Open Universities) in 2015\n- A board member of Iranian Academy of Management sciences (2016).\n\n- A member of the Central promotion Committee of the Ministry of Science ,Research and Technology (2015–present).\n\n- A member of the National Committee of UNESCO (2015–present).\n\n- The Establisher of a UNESCO Chair on Environmental Education \n- A member of policymaking and scientific council of Iran Inventions Grand Prize\n\n1. Iranian journal of Management of public organizations (2013–present)\n\n2. International Journal of the Academy of Organizational Behavior Management, CANADA(2012–2014).\n\n3. International Journal of E-Entrepreneurship and Innovation (IJEEI), IGI, USA(2010–2012).\n\n1. The New Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 1), NAISIT, 2011, CANADA\n\n2. The New Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 2), NAISIT, 2011, CANADA\n\n3. The New Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 3) , NAISIT, 2011, CANADA\n\n4. The New Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 4) , NAISIT, 2012, CANADA\n\n5. The New Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 5) , NAISIT, 2012, CANADA\n\n6. E-Banking and Emerging Multidisciplinary Processes, IGI,2011, USA.\n\n7. Barriers of E-Commerce Acceptance in Export, LAMBERT,2011,USA.\n\n8. The Emerging Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 1),Knowledge Reference Publisher,2013,IRAN.\n\n9. The Emerging Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 2),Knowledge Reference Publisher,2013,IRAN.\n\n10. The Emerging Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 3),Knowledge Reference Publisher,2013,IRAN.\n\n11. The Emerging Faces of Organizations in the 21st Century (Volume 4),Knowledge Reference Publisher,2013,IRAN.\n\n12. The organizations in knowledge Era ,Payame Noor Publisher,edition2,2012,IRAN.\n\n13. Advanced Management Information Systems, Payame Noor Publisher, edition2. , 2011,IRAN.\n\n14. Healthy Organization in Practice, Knowledge Reference Publisher,2014,IRAN.\n\n15. E-Government, Knowledge Reference Publisher,2013,IRAN.\n\n16. Managing Organizational trauma, Mir Mah Press,2016,IRAN.\n\n17. Trauma Management from Islam View point., Mir Mah Press,2016,IRAN.\n\n18. The new era of management,(Richard.L.Daft): Translated in Farsi By Dr.Sarlak , Gostareh,Press, 2008,IRAN.\n\nHe has published over one hundred scientific papers and directed more than 250 master's thesis and doctoral dissertations.\n\nThe concept of organization’s face represents something that identifies and distinguishes the organization from other similar organizations. This concept is based on tow underlying metaphors:\nThe Organizations as living entity such as humans can be distinguished by face factor from each other.\nThe question is what are the factors that determine an organization’s face? To answer this question, should be attention to pillars of an organization.\nEvery organization has at least five following pillars.\n\nWith an emphasis on each of the organizational pillars, a specific type of organization’s face is formed.Every organization can demonstrate five general face, simultaneously or separately:\nEach of these faces is divided into more specific faces.\n"}
{"id": "1891793", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1891793", "title": "Pakola", "text": "Pakola\n\nPakola, derived from Pakistan-Cola is a line of flavored carbonated soft drinks originating from Pakistan. It is produced and manufactured by Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited.\n\nPakola was the creation of seven brothers from the Teli Family of Surat who migrated to Pakistan in 1947. The idea of Pakola came from its founder Haji Ali Mohammad who had a dream to develop a drink that portrays the true reflection and taste of Pakistan. In order to pursue his dream, Haji Ali Mohammad opened a small factory with only two machines at the Lawrence Road (still known as Pakolagali) in Karachi with Pakola Ice-cream Soda being the initial product. \n\nThe famous iconic drink Pakola was launched at the Pakistan Air Force Base on the day of Pakistan’s Independence, 14th August 1950, in the presence of the 1st Prime Minister of Pakistan, Liaquat Ali Khan. Since then, Pakola has made an enduring association between itself as a brand and the country. \n\nLater when Pakistan Beverages (PB) came into existence at SITE Karachi, the brand Pakola was produced there. In 1979 when Pakistan Beverages was announced as a production facility for PEPSI, Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited came into existence and continued to produce the iconic drink Pakola along with other products like Apple Sidra and Bubble Up.\n\nMehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited was managed by his nephews late Zafar Habib and Arif Habib. In 2004, Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited and Pakistan Beverages started manufacturing cans in Pakistan. \n\nLater in 2004, Zeeshan Z. Habib took charge as the Chief Executive Officer of Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited. Not only did he actively participate in all operational tasks but also learnt every aspect of it with keen interest and responsibility. He joined the family business soon after he graduated from The Manchester Metropolitan University. Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited is now among the few companies that are certified HALAL, HACCP, ISO and the FDA. Owning to his brilliant leadership, Pakola is one of the most successful brands in Pakistan. Pakola connects our hearts and minds with the national spirit, using the slogan “Dil Bola Pakola”.\nIn 2007, with the exception of Karachi, the Teli family gave the franchise rights of Pakola to the Leghari family who previously owned Pepsi Sukkur. The Leghari family has the right to sell Pakola nationally with the exception of Karachi, while all exports are done from the Karachi plant. \n\nPakola is one of the benchmark brands directly associated with the image of Pakistan. As per its slogan “Dil Bola Pakola”, Pakola is the heartbeat of the nation. \n\nOver the past 68 years, many beverages have been introduced in the local as well as the international market, but nothing could ever replace the taste, color and the iconic flavor of Pakola. Pakola still is the most preferred drink of Pakistani’s including those living abroad. For most people who grew up in the 80’s/90’s, Pakola evokes intense nostalgia whenever they see the brand. \n\nHere is a list of several variants that have been introduced by Pakola:\n\n\nPakola is made with carbonated water, sugar, citric acid, Cream Soda Artificial Flavor, Color: FD&C Bleu No 1 (E 133), FD&C Yellow No.5 (E 102), Sodium Benzoate {as a preservative}. A typical can of Pakola (8.5 fl ounces/250 ml) has 33 g of sugar, 15 mg of sodium, 0 g of cholestrol, 0 g fat, 0 g of protien, and 130 calories.\n\nPakola is currently produced by two companies, Mehran Bottlers (Pvt) Limited and Gul Bottlers. \n\nPakola is now available in America, Africa, Australia, Canada, Middle East, New Zealand and the United Kingdom. It the only carbonated beverage manufactured in Pakistan that is exported globally. \n\nDue to the introduction of the capacity tax in 2013, Pakola discontinued the production and distribution of all glass-bottled products. The tax was levied on the overall production and distribution of the machinery instead of the actual output which made it an unfair system for those with lower productions or smaller markets. After the collapse of this system, Mehran Bottlers (Pvt.) Limited instantly set up their PET lines to grasp the market once again.\n\n\nTo appeal the younger audience in terms of message and appearance, Pakola has revamped itself through different campaigns in recent years. \nBy launching its Limited Edition Azaadi cans in 2017, Pakola celebrated freedom and joy with Pakistan. The cans paid tribute to Quaid-e-Azam Mohd Ali Jinnah, while they also showcased the flag of Pakistan and incorporated truck art peacock motif on the cans, thereby emphasizing the brand as being the drink of Pakistan. These cans had its own attraction and uniqueness defined amongst consumers which created a buzz throughout social media appreciating Pakistan and its existence. #PakolaAurPakistan #70thBirthday. \n\nIn 2018, Pakola launched its Limited Edition cans to celebrate Pakistani Culture. These cans depicited passion, craze, patriotism and love for Pakistan. \nEach can depicts its own story exhibiting the message of peace and harmony, beautifully potraying the Pakistani culture through truck art, sharing the love for folk music, displaying our favourite sport and honoring the Pakistan armed forces. \n\nA TVC was conceptualized on the theme from Retro to Contemporary. It takes you through a nostalgic journey from your early days to the present, portraying how old times have evolved but the taste, quality and fondness of Pakola has still remained the same. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "25941000", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25941000", "title": "Paul Chaffey", "text": "Paul Chaffey\n\nPaul André Chaffey (born 10 July 1965) is a Norwegian businessperson and politician, who represented the Socialist Left Party until 1997. He is now State Secretary to Minister of Local Government Jan Tore Sanner, and a supporter of the Conservative Party since 2000.\n\nHe was born in Oslo as a son of university lecturer Patrick Nigel Chaffey (1938–2006) and advisor Arnhild Mæhle (born 1945). He grew up in Bærum, and finished secondary school at Valler Upper Secondary School in 1984. At the University of Oslo he minored in political science in 1985–1986 before minoring in history in 1988–1989. He became involved in the Socialist Youth at a young age, and worked as their county secretary in Oslo from 1984 to 1985. From 1986 to 1988 he was the organizational secretary of the nationwide organization. He was a board member in Bærum from 1983 to 1984, in Akershus from 1984 to 1985 and then nationwide from 1985 to 1990. From 1988 to 1990 he led the organization. From 1986 to 1989 he was a member of the national board and central committee of the Socialist Left Party. He released two books in this period: \"Lik rett til utdanning\" in 1986 and \"Grønn framtid?: vår miljøpolitiske utfordring\" in 1989.\n\nHe was elected as a member of the Parliament of Norway in 1989 and 1993, representing the constituency Akershus. In the first term he was a member of the Standing Committee on Foreign and Constitutional Affairs and the Enlarged Committee on Foreign and Constitutional Affairs. In the second term he was the secretary of the Standing Committee on Energy and the Environment.\n\nIn 1997 he left politics, and was hired as an advisor in Statoil. After a short time as director of occupational safety and health, strategy and communications in 1999, he was the director of marketing from 1999 to 2001. In 2001 he was hired as managing director of Abelia, an employers' organisation organized under the national Confederation of Norwegian Enterprise. He has also been chair of the Norwegian Institute of International Affairs from 2002 to 2005, a board member of \"Europaprogrammet\" from 1990 to 1997 and of the University of Oslo.\n\nIn line with his change of career, Chaffey has been known for denouncing his former connections to the socialist movement. He has stated that he voted Labour in 1997, the very same year that he concluded his parliamentary representation for the Socialist Left Party, and in the 2000s he began voting Conservative. In 2008 he explained his move to the right to have been as he realized \"that the market economy works\", and even spoke at the national conference of the Progress Party where he praised its members.\n"}
{"id": "24485695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24485695", "title": "Paul Fletcher (politician)", "text": "Paul Fletcher (politician)\n\nPaul William Fletcher (born 16 January 1965) is an Australian politician, currently serving as Minister for Urban Infrastructure and Cities in the Second Turnbull Ministry and Morrison Ministry since July 2016. Fletcher has been a Liberal member of the Australian House of Representatives, representing the Division of Bradfield, since his election to parliament at the 2009 Bradfield by-election.\n\nFletcher served as the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Communications between September 2013 and September 2015 in the Abbott Ministry, and between September 2015 and July 2016, he served as the Minister for Major Projects, Territories, and Local Government. He briefly served as the Minister for Territories, Local Government and Major Projects between October and December 2017.\n\nFletcher was born in the English town of Devizes and came to Australia with his family at age two. He was a dual Australian/British citizen until 2009 when he renounced his British citizenship.\n\nFletcher attended Sydney Grammar School, before going on to earn first-class honours degrees in economics and law from the University of Sydney. In 1993 he was awarded a Fulbright Scholarship to go to Columbia University's Graduate School of Business in New York City, where he completed a Master of Business Administration degree.\n\nIn his early career, Fletcher worked as a management consultant, a corporate lawyer for Mallesons Stephen Jaques, and a corporate strategist for TNT Limited. From 1996 to 2000, he worked as Chief of Staff to Minister for Communications Richard Alston, a Liberal Party politician. Fletcher joined Optus in 2000 and worked as Director of Corporate and Regulatory Affairs until 2008. He then founded Fletchergroup Advisers, a strategy consultancy focusing on the communications industry. He also wrote a book entitled \"Wired Brown Land? Telstra's Battle for Broadband\" that was published in 2009, discussing Telstra's bid to operate the Australian Government's proposed National Broadband Network.\n\nFletcher was selected from a field of 17 people to be the Liberal Party candidate, following the retirement of former Liberal leader Brendan Nelson. Bradfield, a seat located in the North Shore of Sydney, has been held continuously by the Liberal Party since its creation in 1949, and is one of the safest Liberal Party seats in Parliament. He was required to renounce his dual British citizenship prior to entering Parliament, as required by Section 44 of the Constitution of Australia. Fletcher had previously unsuccessfully sought Liberal Party pre-selection in the Division of Cook in 2007.\n\nUnder the Abbott government, Fletcher was the Parliamentary Secretary to the Minister for Communications. In September 2015 Fletcher was appointed as the Minister for Major Projects, Territories, and Local Government in the Turnbull government. Fletcher has served as the Minister for Urban Infrastructure and Cities since July 2016.\n\nFletcher is married to jeweller Manuela Zappacosta and they have one son, and they live with her son from a previous marriage.\n\n"}
{"id": "45189636", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45189636", "title": "Paul R. Lawrence", "text": "Paul R. Lawrence\n\nPaul Roger Lawrence (April 26, 1922 – November 1, 2011) was an American sociologist, Professor of Organizational Behavior at the Harvard Business School, and consultant, known from his work with Jay W. Lorsch on \"Differentiation and integration in complex organizations.\"\n\nBorn in Rochelle, Illinois, Lawrence obtained his AB from Albion College in 1943, and after the War at Harvard Business School his MBA in 1947 and his PhD in 1950.\n\nAfter graduation Lawrence started his lifelong academic career at Harvard University in 1947 as Instructor. He was appointed Assistant Professor in 1950, Associate Professor in 1956, and Full Professor in 1960. From 1967 to 1991 he was Wallace Brett Donham Professor of Organizational Behavior. He has been Visiting Professor at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology in 1973, and at the University of California, Berkeley in 1984. From 1975 to 1993 he has also been Director at Millipore Corporation, and from 1991 to 1995 Director at the Hollingsworth & Vose Paper Company.\n\nLawrence was elected Fellow of the Academy of Management, and of the International Academy of Management, and member of the American Sociological Association and the Society for the Advancement of Socio-Economics.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45431109", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45431109", "title": "Per Møystad Backe", "text": "Per Møystad Backe\n\nPer Møystad Backe (2 December 1914 – 19 August 1991) was a Norwegian jurist and industrial leader. He was born in Hammerfest. He was a central person in the development of the Scandinavian Airlines from 1946. From 1959 to 1968 he was manager of Dalen Portland Cementfabrik. He chaired the board of Norcem from 1968 to 1983, as well as Viking–Askim from 1970. He was decorated Knight, First Class of the Order of St. Olav in 1971.\n"}
{"id": "45417727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45417727", "title": "Phua Kok Khoo", "text": "Phua Kok Khoo\n\nPhua Kok Khoo () is a Singaporean publisher, academic, and philanthropist.\n\nPhua is the son of late Teochew merchant and community figure Phua Chay Long (). Graduated from the University of Birmingham with a PhD in Mathematical Physics in 1970, he is Chairman and Editor-in-Chief of World Scientific Publishing, Asia's largest international scientific publishing company, which he founded in Singapore in 1981. He is the founding director of the Institute of Advanced Studies at Nanyang Technological University, as well as an adjunct professor in the Department of Physics at the National University of Singapore.\n\nIn 2009 Phua was elected as Fellow of the American Physical Society for his contributions to research and education in physics. He was awarded the American Physical Society President's Award by the institute of Physics Singapore Council in 2006, for his contributions to physics research and education in Singapore. Phua was awarded the honorary degree of Doctor of Science (DSc) by the University of Birmingham in Singapore in 2013. In 2014 Phua donated e-books worth £1 million to the University of Birmingham's new library.\n"}
{"id": "12236895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12236895", "title": "Purchasing (magazine)", "text": "Purchasing (magazine)\n\nPurchasing magazine () was a trade publication serving the information needs of purchasing professionals. A companion web site included most of the editorial content of issues from January 1998 through the current issue, plus current information not found in the magazine. Both were owned by Reed Business Information.\n\nThe last editor-in-chief was Paul Teague, with the editorial offices located in Waltham, Massachusetts, USA.\nEstablished in 1915, \"Purchasing\" magazine was published 12 times per year.\n\nCommon articles discussed procurement, strategic sourcing, manufacturing, logistics, and other supply chain related topics.\n\nAs of December 2006, total BPA audited circulation was 92,724 subscribers.\n\nEffective April 2010, \"Purchasing\" Magazine stopped publication.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28154156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28154156", "title": "Robert Goelet", "text": "Robert Goelet\n\nRobert Goelet (September 29, 1841 – April 27, 1899) was an American heir, businessman and yachtsman from New York City during the Gilded Age.\n\nRobert Goelet was born on September 29, 1841 in Manhattan, New York City, to Sarah Ogden (1809–1888) and Robert Goelet (1809–1879). He had a younger brother, Ogden Goelet, who married society leader Mary Wilson Goelet and built Ochre Court in Newport, Rhode Island. Through his brother, he was the uncle of Mary Goelet, who married Henry Innes-Ker, 8th Duke of Roxburghe and real estate developer Robert Wilson Goelet.\n\nHis parents resided at 5 State Street, overlooking the Battery in Manhattan. His father was a prominent landlord in New York, as was his uncle, Peter Goelet, who was named after his great-grandfather, Peter Goelet.\n\nHe graduated from Columbia College in 1860 and was subsequently admitted to the bar. He managed the real estate of his father and his unmarried uncle. After their deaths, he inherited half their fortune. He also served on the Board of Directors of the Union Trust Company, the New York Life Insurance and Trust Company, the Guaranty Trust Company, the Bank of New Amsterdam, the Chemical National Bank, which his father and uncle were instrumental in founding. In his obituary in \"The New York Times\", he was described as:\n\n\"He was clear-headed and keen-witted, and his judgment in financial and real estate matters invariably commanded the respect of other business men. A loyal New Yorker, Robert Goelet took particular pride in promoting the growth and development of the city with which his family had long so long identified. He was a man of progressive ideas, and throughout his business career pursued a policy of improving his properties in a manner which would beautify the city.\"\n\nGoelet was a member of the exclusive Philadelphia Club, the New York Yacht Club, the Knickerbocker Club, the Metropolitan Club, the Tuxedo Club, the Union Club of the City of New York and was one of the original stockholders of the Metropolitan Opera House, both before it burned in 1892 and after it was rebuilt. He was also a member of the Jekyll Island Club on Jekyll Island, Georgia.\n\nHis yacht \"Nahma\" was designed by George L. Watson and built for him on the River Clyde in 1897. After his death, it was used extensively for summer cruising in European waters by his son, Robert Walton Goelet, who lent the yacht at no cost to the United States Navy. The Navy operated it as USS Nahma (SP-771) from 1917 to 1919, after which it was returned.\n\nOn April 17, 1879, Goelet married Harriette Louise Warren (1854-1912) in New York City. Harriette was a daughter of George Henry Warren I, a prominent lawyer, and Mary (née Phoenix) Warren (herself the daughter of U.S. Representative Jonas P. Phoenix and granddaughter of Stephen Whitney). Harriet was the sister of stockbroker George Henry Warren II and prominent architects Whitney Warren and Lloyd Warren.\n\nThe Goelets resided in a townhouse located at 591 Fifth Avenue in Manhattan (designed by Edward H. Kendall in 1880), as well as at seasonal residences in Tuxedo Park, New York, and Newport, Rhode Island (designed by McKim, Mead & White, c. 1882-1883). Together, Harriette and Robert Goelet had two children:\n\n\nHe died of heart disease on April 27, 1899, in Naples, Italy. After his body was transported from Italy by his yacht \"Nahma\", his funeral was held at Trinity Church in Newport. After the funeral, his body was again transported \"by special train over the New Haven Road\", and was buried in the Goelet Mausoleum, which had been completed only days before, at Woodlawn Cemetery in the Bronx. His widow lived for another 13 years until her death in December 1912 at her home in Paris, 46 Avenue d'Iéna.\n"}
{"id": "27313718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27313718", "title": "Robin Leproux", "text": "Robin Leproux\n\nRobin Leproux (born 22 July 1959) is a French businessman. On 10 September 2009, he was named president of the French football club Paris Saint-Germain replacing Sébastien Bazin.\n\nPrior to his work in football, Leproux worked for the music recording label PolyGram before moving on to the French television service M6, where he was later named vice-chairman. While at M6, Leproux was the director of football club Bordeaux. In 2001, Leproux was installed as president of RTL, the popular nationwide commercial radio network owned by the RTL Group. In 2006, he was recruited to head the French site of Axel Springer AG and was tasked with creating an English version of the German magazine \"Bild\". In September 2009, Leproux was named president of football club Paris Saint-Germain. In his first year of presidency, the club won the Coupe de France.\n"}
{"id": "45357267", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45357267", "title": "Ruth Jean Baskerville Bowen", "text": "Ruth Jean Baskerville Bowen\n\nRuth Jean Baskerville Bowen (1924–2009) was the first black female talent agent and the president of Queen Booking Corporation, the largest Black-owned entertainment and talent agency in the world. It represented many of the United States' top African-American performers.\n\nRuth Jean Baskerville was born to Marion Baskerville and Claude Carlton on September 13, 1924, in Danville, Virginia. Her mother was African-American and French and her father was an English-born Irishman. She grew up with three older white half-sisters and her brother James Edward Goode. She attended Westmoreland Elementary School and Langston High School in Danville before moving with her family to Brooklyn, New York, where she attended Girls' High School. She studied at New York University for two years before getting married.\n\nAfter marrying in 1944, Ruth Bowen initially gained hands-on experience in the entertainment industry by handling her husband Billy Bowen's business affairs. A singer, he was one of the original members of The Ink Spots, and toured with them around the country in the 1940s and 1950s.\n\nBowen really started her career via an introduction to singer Dinah Washington; there are two versions of their first meeting. According to one source, while on tour with her husband and the Ink Spots in Pittsburgh, Bowen spotted Washington's tour bus and her husband introduced them. Another story is that \"Major Robinson, a nationally syndicated columnist, introduced Bowen to Dinah Washington in 1945.\" Both sources seem to agree, however, that this initial meeting is what lead to Bowen becoming Washington's personal publicist and manager. While working with Washington and her booking agent, Joe Glaser, Bowen learned a great deal about the entertainment industry in general, and about booking artists more specifically.\n\nUsing David Dinkins as her lawyer (he was later elected as mayor of New York City), Bowen got her booking license from the State of New York. Together with Washington, she started a booking agency, Queen Artists, in 1959. By 1964, after the death of Washington, Bowen renamed her company as the Queen Booking Corporation. She handled all types of talent, from \"...individual singers to soul-rock groups to gospel choirs to comedians.\"\n\nBowen represented artists including: Aretha Franklin, The Drifters, Harold Melvin & the Blue Notes, Patti LaBelle and Bluebells, Curtis Mayfield and the Impressions, Gladys Knight & the Pips, The Isley Brothers, Kool & the Gang, The Dells, The Chi-Lites, The Sweet Inspirations, The O'Jays, The Intruders, Gene Chandler, Teddy Pendergrass, Smokey Robinson, Bobby Womack, Marvin Gaye, Millie Jackson, Ike Turner and Tina Turner, The Four Tops, The Marvelettes, Dee Dee Warwick, Dee Dee Sharp, The Delfonics, The Manhattans, The Ohio Players, Jerry Butler, Tyrone Davis, The Staple Singers, The Stylistics, Barbara Mason, Ben E. King, Al Green, Tavares, Gwen McCrae, Stanley Turrentine, Bobbi Humphrey, and others.\"\nRuth Bowen married William \"Billy\" Bowen, one of the original members of The Ink Spots, in 1944. They were married until his death in 1982.\n\nShe married again, to Clarence \"Billy\" Bryant. Bowen died at the age of 84 on April 21, 2009 in New York City after battling brain cancer. When she died, she was survived by Bryant, her brother James Edward Goode, and sister-in-law Jean.\n"}
{"id": "2193340", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2193340", "title": "SFR", "text": "SFR\n\nSFR \"(Société française du radiotéléphone)\" is a French telecommunications company that provides voice, video, data, and Internet telecommunications and professional services to consumers and businesses. As of December 2015, it has 21.9 million customers in Metropolitan France for mobile services, and provides 6.35 million households with high-speed internet access. SFR is owned by Altice and French conglomerate Vivendi.\n\nSFR also offers services in the Overseas Departments of France : in the Caribbean islands of Martinique, Guadeloupe, and in Guyane as well as in the Indian Ocean, in Mayotte and on the Réunion island through SRR (\"Société Réunionnaise du Radiotéléphone\") although the company is branded as \"SFR Réunion\".\n\nSFR (SFR Belux) operated in Belgium as a cable operator and MVNO in some communes of Brussels Region and in some areas of Luxembourg. The division was sold to rival Telenet in December 2016.\n\nVodafone had a 44% share in SFR until April 2011 when it sold the entire share back to Vivendi. SFR is a major partner network of Vodafone in France.\n\nVivendi announced in March 2014 that it planned to sell its SFR division. On 14 March it announced that it would enter exclusive negotiations with Altice/Numericable, to the exclusion of Bouygues and Iliad. Arnaud Montebourg, the French Minister for Industrial Renewal, provoked a storm when he stated that the Numericable/SFR deal was a certainty; Iliad lost 7.5% of its market value on that day.\n\nIn February 2016 Orange, SFR and Free announced the purchase of their competitor Bouygues Telecom. However, negotiations for the purchase agreement fell through a few months later.\n\n\nSFR TV is a television service accessible on \"La box de SFR\" and \"La Box Fibre de SFR\", which delivers television programs via the broadband internet telephone network (xDSL), high-speed internet (FTTH or FTTB fiber within Numericable). The service was also broadcast by satellite with \"SFR Sat\" available on the Astra 19.2°E satellite until October 2015.\n\nThe SFR TV package includes more than 200 channels, some pay-tv channels can be added as an option, by subscribing to a specific paid package, classified by theme (sport, youth, music, international ...).\n\nSFR Sport is a package of French TV channels (SFR Sport 1, SFR Sport 2, SFR Sport 3, SFR Sport 4K, SFR Sport 5) from the SFR Group devoted to sports. They are available for SFR and OTT subscribers.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53742922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53742922", "title": "United Express Flight 3411 incident", "text": "United Express Flight 3411 incident\n\nOn April 9, 2017, O'Hare International Airport Aviation Security Officers forcibly removed passenger David Dao, a pulmonologist, from United Express Flight 3411, after Dao refused to leave the aircraft as airline staff insisted. Aviation Security Officers were called and dragged him off. Dao screamed as officers pulled him out of his seat, and his face hit an armrest during the struggle. Officers then dragged him, apparently unconscious, by his arms on his back along the aircraft aisle past rows of onlooking passengers. According to passenger eyewitness accounts, the Aviation Security Officers laughed as Dao was dragged off the plane. He was later seen with blood around his mouth. Prior to the confrontation, managers offered travel vouchers to passengers to vacate their seats to make room for four airline employees who needed to travel to the destination, Louisville International Airport, but none of the passengers accepted. Four passengers were then selected for involuntary removal from the flight. Three other passengers complied, and Dao was selected to be fourth. Republic Airline operated the scheduled passenger flight on behalf of United Express, a United Airlines regional branch.\n\nVideo of the incident recorded by passengers went viral on social media, resulting in outrage over the violent incident. Politicians expressed concern and called for official investigation. U.S. President Donald Trump criticized United Airlines, calling treatment of their customer \"horrible\".\n\nThe next morning United CEO Oscar Munoz issued a statement which appeared to justify the removal of the unwilling passenger, referring to it as \"re-accommodating the customers\". Munoz also sent an email to United staff commending the crew's actions for following established procedures, and referring to Dao as \"disruptive\" and \"belligerent\". The description of Dao as \"disruptive\" and \"belligerent\" completely contradicted passenger descriptions of the incident. Passenger Jason Powell said Dao was not belligerent, saying, \"He was very polite, matter-of-fact,\" In addition, cell phone video by passenger Joya Cummings also contradicted Munoz' description of Dao as belligerent.\n\nMunoz and United were sharply criticized for their initial statements. Two days after the incident Munoz issued an additional statement, apologizing and promising that this type of incident would never happen again on United aircraft. He said, \"No one should ever be mistreated this way.\" In an exclusive interview on \"Good Morning America\", with ABC News Chief Business, Technology and Economics correspondent, Rebecca Jarvis, Munoz was asked, \"Do you think [Dao] was at fault in any way?\" Munoz responded, \"No. He can't be. He was a paying passenger sitting on our seat in our aircraft.\" Munoz was denied a previously planned promotion to chairman as a result of the incident. Dao reached an \"amicable\" settlement with United on April 27, the terms of which were not publicly announced.\n\nJust before 5:40 p.m. on 9 April 2017, after passengers were seated in the United Express Flight 3411 aircraft but while the plane was still at the gate, the United gate agent announced that they needed to remove four passengers to accommodate four staff members who had to cover an unstaffed flight at another location. The crew members were originally scheduled to take Flight 4448 which was to depart at 2:55 p.m. but that plane was experiencing a significant mechanical delay and had the possibility of being cancelled. The crew was not re-booked to Flight 3411 until 5:21 p.m., 19 minutes before Flight 3411's scheduled departure time.\n\nAccording to passenger Tyler Bridges, the situation quickly became problematic due to the demeanor of airline employees. Says Bridges, \"An airline supervisor walked onto the plane and brusquely announced: 'We have United employees that need to fly to Louisville tonight. ... This flight's not leaving until four people get off.'\" In an interview with CNN, passenger John Klaassen made several statements which corroborates Bridges' testimony. Klaassen said, \"after the first offer was made, the United employee left and it escalated ... had they just tried some diplomacy, none of this had to take place ... they were unwilling to negotiate\"\n\nPassenger Jason Powell affirms the supervisor's unprofessional conduct and said he didn't understand why the supervisor who handled the situation did so with such an annoyed, belligerent tone. \"The tone immediately turned me off,\" Powell said. \"She accelerated the situation. It was poor leadership.\" In a letter to the editor Powell said, \"The disgusting mishandling of the situation included everyone from the rude ticket agent who demanded that this man give up his seat on the flight United overbooked ...\" Passenger Mary Myers echos these sentiments and faults the gate agent saying, \"I really put all of this on her shoulders. She could have made a difference. She could have handled it differently. She's the one who started it all.\"\n\nIn addition, Myers indicated Dao pleaded with the supervisor not to remove him from the flight and explained that as a doctor he could not miss his return flight home. Myers further stated that the supervisor's response was not appropriate. \"She said, 'Well, then I'll just have to call the police and have you escorted off the plane.' In my opinion, I think any good supervisor would never have let the situation escalate to that point. Honestly, I think I blame her for the whole entire occurrence.\"\n\nPassengers were initially offered US$400 in vouchers for future travel on United, a hotel stay, and a seat on a plane leaving more than 21 hours later if they voluntarily deplaned. With no volunteers, the offer was increased to $800 in vouchers. With still no volunteers, a manager boarded and informed the flight that four people would be chosen by computer. A spokeswoman for United has since stated that the selection is based on specific factors, including priority to remain aboard for frequent fliers and those who paid a higher fare. Three of the selected passengers, a couple and a woman thought to be Dao's wife, agreed to leave. The fourth selected passenger, 69 year-old David Dao, an Asian-American doctor from Elizabethtown, Kentucky, refused, saying he needed to see patients the next day at his clinic. United Airlines staff requested assistance from Chicago Department of Aviation security officers, whose powers differ from those of Chicago Police Department officers; they cannot, for example, file arrest reports.\n\nDao refused to leave his seat, and in the ensuing scuffle, he suffered injuries to his head and mouth when, according to another passenger, a Officer James Long threw him against the armrest before dragging him down the aisle by the arms, apparently unconscious. During the altercation, a number of passengers distressed by the incident voluntarily left the aircraft. Four Republic Airline staff then sat in the vacated seats. Shortly afterwards, Dao managed to re-board the aircraft, repeatedly saying, \"I have to go home.\" and \"Just kill me.\" Eventually he collapsed in a seat and was removed from the aircraft on a stretcher. The remaining passengers were then deplaned while blood from the scuffle was cleaned up.\n\nDao was seen with a bloody face after he was removed from the seat. Other passengers on the flight recorded the event on video using smartphone cameras, which was widely circulated on social media. Another passenger reported hearing Dao say that he had been chosen because of his ethnicity. Dao was taken to the hospital with non life-threatening injuries including a broken nose, loss of two front teeth, sinus injuries, and \"a significant concussion\" requiring reconstructive surgery according to Dao's lawyer.\n\nThe flight departed at 7:21 p.m CDT, two hours and two minutes later than scheduled. It arrived at Louisville at 9:01 p.m. CDT, two hours behind schedule.\n\nAn 11 April 2017, statement from law firms Golan Christie Taglia and Corboy & Demetrio, who said they represented Dao, indicated that their client's family \"wants the world to know that they are very appreciative of the outpouring of prayers, concern and support\".\n\nThe three officers who responded to the incident were James Long, Mauricio Rodriguez Jr. and Steven Smith. Their supervisor was Sergeant John Moore. Long had just returned to the job after being suspended due to insubordination.Long had ignored a supervisor's orders to keep vehicles from driving into a restricted area of the airport. Long was placed on administrative leave soon after the incident; Rodriguez and Smith were placed on administrative leave on April 12. Their supervisor, Sergeant John Moore, was then put on administrative leave on April 19.Moore had been disciplined at least seven times from 1999 to 2009 for failing to show up for work without notifying a supervisor. The Chicago Department of Aviation said that \"The incident on United Flight 3411 was not in accordance with our standard operating procedure and the actions of the aviation security officer are obviously not condoned by the Department ...\" The aviation police receive more training and better pay compared to private security guards, but less training and less pay than officers of the Chicago Police Department.\n\nCity Inspector General Joseph Ferguson launched an investigation shortly after the incident. The OIG released their findings on October 17, 2017 in their Third Quarter 2017 report. The investigation established that three Chicago Department of Aviation (CDA) Aviation Security Officers (ASOs) and one Aviation Security Sergeant violated City of Chicago Personnel Rules. Specifically:\n\nIn response to the Office of Inspector General (OIG) Report, CDA discharged Long and Moore, and issued five-day suspensions to Rodriguez and Smith.\n\nOn 29 June 2017, the Illinois Law Enforcement Training and Standards Board decertified the Chicago Department of Aviation Police, stating the agency is \"in no way\" a police agency. They are considered as security, and going forward, the Chicago Police Department will be the primary responders to all airport disturbance calls. The union representing the 300 officer department, SEIU local 73, challenged the downgrade from police to security in an unfair labor practices complaint.\n\nFollowing a review prompted by this incident, in July 2017 the Chicago Department of Aviation reported that their non-sworn, unarmed airport security personnel were not actually police officers under Illinois law. Their uniforms, badges, and vehicles had been \"improperly\" labeled \"police\" due to historical reasons. It promised that the incorrect insignia would be removed within months.\n\nVideo footage from passengers who remained on the aircraft throughout the incident was widely shared, and was then picked up by mainstream media agencies. One such video was shared 87,000 times and viewed 6.8 million times in less than a day.\n\nThe victim was initially thought to be Chinese American as one of the witnesses told \"The Washington Post,\" \"He said, more or less, 'I'm being selected because I'm Chinese.'\" His daughter Crystal Dao Pepper later said in the press conference that her father was Vietnamese Chinese. The incident thus drew outrage on mainland Chinese and Vietnamese social media, and became the number one trending topic on the Chinese micro-blogging site Weibo, attracting the attention of more than 480 million users. The incident also outraged Yelp users and low star rating were given to United Airlines in Chicago and other cities including San Francisco. An article in \"Foreign Policy\" noted the racial and political reasons for the wide spread of the video throughout the mainland Chinese mediasphere, where there are heated debates over the nature of America's political system and its relations to China, and asserted that the video would serve the ends of the authorities and critics of America in challenging America's cultural sway in China. Ire in Vietnam grew after it was reported Dao's origins in that country. There was also negative reaction to allegations over Dao's past being reported in the United States, which was viewed as irrelevant and possibly racist. Dao's reported account of feeling racially profiled incited outrage elsewhere in Asia.\n\nThe incident had taken place shortly after another controversy in which United refused boarding to two teenage girls wearing leggings. There were calls by social media users across the world, especially those in the United States, China, and Vietnam, to boycott United Airlines. Customers of the airline posted pictures of their United loyalty or credit cards cut into pieces. Another petition called on the U.S. federal government to launch an investigation into the incident, invoking the Black Lives Matter movement by using the hashtag \"#ChineseLivesMatters\".\n\nShares of United Continental Holdings (UAL), the parent of United Airlines, closed at $70.88 on April 7. On April 10, the first trading day after the incident, they rose by 0.9% to close at $71.52. \n\nResearch analysts S3 Partners commented on the effect the incident would have on UAL's future financial performance, saying that \"consumers might not have much choice but to fly UAL due to airline consolidation, which has reduced competition over most routes. As a result, with passengers having fewer options these days when it comes to carriers, UAL's revenues may not suffer as much as expected unless passengers opt for longer and more expensive flights.\" Analysts Wolfe Research and Cowen & Co. were also confident of future performance.\n\nInvestor Warren Buffett, a major investor in airline stocks, said that United made a \"terrible mistake,\" and that public perceptions were influenced by the CEO's initial reaction. Buffett said that even though airlines may become \"like cattle cars,\" that reflects the public's preference for cheap flights, which has resulted in high load factors. The result of high load factors is a \"fair amount of discomfort.\"\n\nA poll of 1,900 people conducted three days after the incident suggested that all else being equal, 79% of prospective fliers who had heard of the incident would choose a non-United Airlines flight. 44% would choose a non-United Airlines flight even if it cost USD$66 more and took an additional three hours.\n\nDespite calls for a boycott, United Airlines reported 39% greater profits over the previous year in the second quarter of 2017, as well as increased sales. Economist John Kwoka Jr. attributed this to the high level of consolidation of American airlines, with a majority of flights controlled by four corporations—United, Delta, American and Southwest—making a boycott impractical. Additionally, for many travelers, ticket price is the primary deciding factor when booking flights, outweighing other considerations, such as customer service.\n\nIn August 2017, data from the U.S. Department of Transportation showed that bumped-passenger rates were at their lowest since 1995. The rate \"markedly decreased\" starting in April 2017 (the same month this incident occurred) from 0.62 per 10,000 passengers, to 0.44 per 10,000 in the second quarter of 2017.\n\nOn April 9, United issued a statement: \"Flight 3411 from Chicago to Louisville was overbooked. After our team looked for volunteers, one customer refused to leave the aircraft voluntarily and law enforcement was asked to come to the gate. We apologize for the overbook situation. Further details on the removed customer should be directed to authorities.\" The company also tweeted \"Flight 3411 from Chicago to Louisville was overbooked. After our team looked for volunteers, one customer refused to leave the aircraft voluntarily and law enforcement was asked to come to the gate.\" By April 11, United corrected its prior mistaken statement, stating that the flight was in fact not overbooked, but sold out, and the four employees who needed the seats were considered \"must-ride\" passengers who had to travel to another city to work as aircraft crew.\nUnited CEO Oscar Munoz stated on April 10: \"This is an upsetting event to all of us here at United. I apologize for having to re-accommodate these customers. Our team is moving with a sense of urgency to work with the authorities and conduct our own detailed review of what happened. We are also reaching out to this passenger to talk directly to him and further address and resolve this situation.\" Munoz's use of the word \"re-accommodate\" received particular attention and ridicule from social media and commentators.\n\nLater on April 10, in an e-mail to employees, Munoz praised and defended the crew's actions, while [falsely] claiming the passenger was \"disruptive and belligerent\". He stated that this was not a mistake, but \"Our employees followed established procedures for dealing with situations like this.\" This led to an online petition calling for his resignation.\n\nIn a subsequent public statement released by United in the afternoon of 11 April 2017, Munoz was more sensitive to public opinion. His note described the Dao incident as \"truly horrific\" and expressed an understanding of the \"outrage, anger, disappointment\" felt by many. He took full responsibility and apologized, adding that \"No one should ever be mistreated this way\". He promised to conduct a thorough review and release a report by April 30. The public statement ends with this comment: \"I promise you we will do better.\"\n\nDuring a television interview on April 12, Munoz announced that effective immediately, United Airlines would no longer use police in involuntary bumping situations: \"We're not going to put a law enforcement official ... [onto a United aircraft] to remove a booked, paid, seated passenger.\" He apologized to Dao and his family and said, \"That is not who our family at United is. You saw us at a bad moment; this can and will never happen again on a United Airlines flight. That is my promise.\" Asked if Dao was at fault in any way, he said, \"No, he can't be ... no one should be treated that way, period.\"\n\nIn response to a signed petition, Munoz said he did not intend to resign.\n\nThree days after the incident, United Airlines elected to provide all passengers aboard United Express Flight 3411 compensation equal to the cost of their tickets. An email obtained by the CNN news agency stated that this compensation was in the form of a $500 voucher toward future travel on United Airlines. On 13 April 2017, United internally announced a policy change to ensure that flight crews are booked \"at least 60 minutes prior to departure.\" On April 18, Munoz reported that no one will be fired as a result of the incident.\n\nOn April 21, it was reported that Munoz would not become chairman of the airline, as had been planned, because of the incident. Munoz's employment agreement was amended subsequent to the incident to reflect that he would not be elevated to chairman. In a government filing, United said that the airline was developing a program for 2017 so that compensation was \"directly and meaningfully tied to progress in improving the customer experience.\"\n\nUnited and Dao reached a confidential settlement on April 27. Although the financial terms of the settlement remain confidential, one of the stipulations of the settlement was that Dr. Dao could not sue the City of Chicago. At the same time, the airline announced ten policy changes in response to the incident. These included raising the maximum amount of travel vouchers to passengers \"bounced\" from flights to up to $10,000 and a $1,500 \"no questions asked\" fee for permanently lost luggage, and the airline promised to reduce overbooking.However, United Airlines had not raised the amount for bounced passengers from their previous $1350 maximum as of the 14 December 2017 revision of their Contract of Carriage Agreement.\n\nThe handling of the incident by Munoz was described as a \"fumbling response\" by Bloomberg News, part of a \"public-relations disaster\" for United. Munoz had been named \"Communicator of the Year for 2017\" by \"PRWeek\" in March 2017. Steve Barrett, Editor-in-chief of \"PRWeek US\", later noted: \"It's fair to say that if \"PRWeek\" was choosing its Communicator of the Year now, we would not be awarding it to Oscar Munoz … In time, the episode and subsequent response will be quoted in textbooks as an example of how not to respond in a crisis.\" Public relations expert Rupert Younger, director of the Oxford University Centre for Corporate Reputation, called the handling of the situation \"a major disappointment.\" In Younger's view, Munoz should have moved more quickly and been more genuinely apologetic from the start. Former Assistant Secretary of State for Public Affairs Philip J. Crowley said: \"It's hard to think of a case study that went so compellingly wrong so rapidly.\"\n\nOn April 13, 2017, the United Master Executive Council, the United Airlines bargaining unit of the Air Line Pilots Association trade union, issued a statement to shift blame from United to Republic Airline, one of the carriers under contract to operate United Express flights, and especially the Chicago Department of Aviation. The statement read in part: \"this violent incident should never have happened and was a result of gross excessive force by Chicago Department of Aviation personnel.\"\n\nEmirates launched an advertising campaign that parodies United Airline's \"Fly the Friendly Skies\" slogan and Munoz's previous statements about airlines in the Middle East. Royal Jordanian put up a picture of a no-smoking sign on its Twitter account with the messages, \"We would like to remind you that drags on flights are strictly prohibited by passengers and crew,\" and \"We are here to keep you #united. Dragging is strictly prohibited.\"\n\nDelta Air Lines increased the amount of compensation supervisors can offer to displaced passengers from $1,350 to $9,950 with gate agents able to offer $2,000, up from $800. American Airlines also enacted a new policy: passengers who have already boarded will never be removed to seat others. Southwest Airlines announced they will no longer overbook flights.\n\nThe White House's \"We the People\" webpage received 100,000 petition signatures in one day—exceeding the threshold needed for official review—demanding a government investigation into the incident. White House Press Secretary Sean Spicer commented that \"It was an unfortunate incident\" and added \"when you watch the video, it is troubling to see how that was handled.\"\n\nThe United States Department of Transportation (USDOT) said it was reviewing the incident. \"While it is legal for airlines to [involuntarily] bump passengers from an oversold flight when there are not enough volunteers, it is the airline's responsibility to determine its own fair boarding priorities,\" the agency said in a statement. On April 12, the USDOT stated that it was \"reviewing the involuntary denied boarding of passenger(s) from United Express flight 3411 to determine whether the airline \"complied with the oversales rule.\"\n\nNew Jersey Governor Chris Christie asked the United States Secretary of Transportation, Elaine Chao, to suspend allowing airlines to overbook passengers.\n\nU.S. President Donald Trump criticized United Airlines' response to Dao in an interview with \"The Wall Street Journal\". He said the airline's treatment of their customer was \"horrible\" and that the airline should have further increased the financial offer to customers to voluntarily leave the plane, instead of choosing to use force. Trump told \"The Wall Street Journal\": \"You know, there's a point at which I'm getting off the plane ... seriously. They should have gone up higher. But to just randomly say, 'You're getting off the plane,' that was terrible.\"\n\nA bipartisan group of senators on the Senate Commerce, Science and Transportation Committee described the incident as \"disturbing\", and wrote to Munoz and the Chicago Department of Aviation. The group sought information about the crew-scheduling mix-up that required passengers to give up their seats, and asked whether United considers bumping a passenger to accommodate employees to be the same as an \"oversold\" situation. They asked the Chicago Department of Aviation about their security protocols and whether Dao had been passive or threatening during the incident. Both parties were given until April 20, 2017, to respond. United Airlines submitted their response on April 26, 2017.\n\nSeparately, twenty-one Democratic U.S. Senators wrote to Munoz to express their deep concern, and asked a range of questions about the incident, requesting a response by April 24, 2017.\n\nCongressional Delegate Eleanor Holmes Norton (D-DC) called for hearings from the House Transportation and Infrastructure (T&I) Committee. Dan Lipinski (D-IL), member of the House Transportation Committee's Aviation subcommittee, called on Congress to make legislative amendments to give passengers more rights and to prevent further similar incidents. Senator Robert Menendez (D-NJ) said the incident was disturbing and criticized Munoz's \"empty apology.\"\n\nSenator Chris Van Hollen (D-MD) is drafting the \"Customers Not Cargo Act\", which would ban airlines from involuntarily bumping passengers who are already on the aircraft and seated. He previously said United must do more than \"apologize\", and called for a full investigation. Separately, congresswoman Jan Schakowsky (D-IL) stated she intended to introduce legislation to end involuntarily bumping of passengers, requiring airlines to increase their offer until a customer voluntarily gives up their seat. On April 26, 2017, Senators Maggie Hassan (D-NH) and Brian Schatz (D-Hawaii) introduced a bill which would change how airlines handle their boarding and bumping policies.\n\nIllinois state Representative Peter Breen has introduced the Airline Passenger Protection Act in the Illinois House of Representatives. The act forbids state or local government authorities from removing passengers that are not dangerous or causing a disturbance in non-emergency situations. It also forbids the state of Illinois from doing business with airlines whose policies allow removal of paying passengers to make room for employees traveling on non-revenue tickets.\n\nChicago City Council's Aviation Committee held hearings starting April 13 to investigate the incident. Committee Chairman Mike Zalewski said the incident had damaged the reputation of Chicago and O'Hare International Airport. Zalewski wanted responses from United, Aviation Commissioner Ginger Evans and from the union representing aviation police, SEIU Local 73.\n\nAn April 12 statement by the Chicago Department of Aviation offered these comments about their security staff: \"While they do have limited authority to make an arrest, Sunday's incident was not within standard operating procedures nor will we tolerate that kind of action. That is why we quickly placed the aviation security officer on leave pending a thorough review of the situation. The action we have taken thus far reflects what we currently know, and as our review continues we will not hesitate to take additional action as appropriate.\"\n\nChicago Aviation Security were instructed to remove the word \"police\" from their uniforms in January 2017, but they disobeyed this instruction. As a result, there was confusion as to who responded to the event with some thinking that the Chicago Police Department responded. The Chicago Police Department Office of Communications stated that Dr. Dao fell—a statement which contradicts what is seen in both videos. When questioned about this, the Chicago Police Department's chief spokesman Anthony Guglielmi said, \"CPD didn't release an official statement on it. We were not involved. Dept. of Aviation has everything you will need.\" When pressed further about why CPD issued a response about an incident in which they were not involved, Guglielmi said this, \"A takeaway for me is to ensure the department's press office is more consistent in referring to appropriate outside agencies for incidents in which CPD is not the acting or involved agency.\"\n\nDao's personal injury lawyer asked the Cook County Circuit Court for an order requiring United and the city of Chicago to retain all video, cockpit recordings, and other reports from the flight, including personnel files of the Aviation Department officers who pulled Dao from the plane. United and the city of Chicago agreed, forgoing a court hearing.\n\nThrough his lawyers, Dao described his ordeal as \"more horrifying\" than his experience of the Fall of Saigon during the Vietnam War.\n\nOn April 24, Dao's attorney announced that Dao intended to file a lawsuit against United. Three days later, United and Dao reached a confidential settlement.\n\nIn April 2018, one of the Aviation Department officers, James Long, filed a lawsuit against United Airlines and the Chicago Department of Aviation alleging that he was not properly trained to handle misbehaving passengers, he was unfairly fired and slandered.\n\nEarly reports and United Airlines initially characterized the incident as a consequence of overbooking, leading some experts to question whether that was the case. John Banzhaf, a professor of law at the George Washington University Law School, states that United was \"citing the wrong federal rule to justify its illegal request to force a passenger already boarded and seated to disembark,\" since the regulation cited only covers denial of boarding, and not removing a passenger after boarding.\n\nAnother observed that while United has asserted a right to remove passengers after boarding, none of the reasons for doing so specified in the airline's contract of carriage applied in this situation. One attorney pointedly stated United \"had absolutely no right to remove that man from the airplane\" and described the incident as \"assault and battery.\"\n\nChicago City Council alderman Michael Zalewski questioned whether the Chicago Airport Police even had the legal authority to enter the aircraft.\n\nA partner at Kreindler & Kreindler, a law firm specializing in air disaster litigation, concluded, \"United, if they're smart, will quickly and quietly settle the case.\"\n\nComedian Jimmy Kimmel criticized United Airlines and its handling of the incident in a five-minute segment of \"Jimmy Kimmel Live!\" that aired on April 10, 2017, and included video of the actual incident. Kimmel, referring to the word \"re-accommodate\" used by Munoz, said, \"That is such sanitized, say-nothing, take-no-responsibility, corporate BS speak.\"\n\nThe incident has been discussed on numerous other comedy shows, including \"Conan\", \"Ellen\", and \"Saturday Night Live\". In an \"SNL\" sketch, Jimmy Fallon's character Doug proposes marriage to Cecily Strong's Jen after admitting he made \"one of the biggest mistakes a person can make\". Jen replies, \"No, Doug! You dragged a man off a plane this week!\"\n\nThe cover of the \"New Yorker\" May 22 issue depicted former FBI director James Comey, who had just been fired, being dragged down the aisle of an airplane by U.S. Attorney General Jeff Sessions.\n\nPopular comic strip \"Pearls Before Swine\", by Stephan Pastis, ran a series of strips later that year where main character Rat got his dream job at a place where 'beating up people is encouraged,' later revealed to be an airline. Rat was seen threatening to beat people up when the flight became overbooked.\n\nAmerican actor Will Ferrell mentioned the incident in his May 2017 commencement address to the University of Southern California's graduating class. Referring to his honorary Doctor of Humane Letters degree awarded on the same day, he quipped:\n\nA passenger on a United Airlines flight who bought a full-priced first-class ticket from Lihue (Hawaii) to Los Angeles was told to get off the plane because \"they needed the seat for somebody more important.\" According to the passenger, the gate agent rudely stated, \"We have a priority list, and you're at the bottom of it.\" The gate agent then threatened him by saying he would be arrested and put in handcuffs. He is now considering legal action against United.\n\nA woman was forced to hold her two year old child on her lap for over three and one-half hours when United Airlines sold her child's seat to a standby passenger. She paid approximately $1,000.00 for the seat. FAA regulations do not permit children two years or older to travel as lap infants. The passenger appealed to the Flight Attendant but the FA was dismissive, shrugged her shoulders and said the flight was full. The passenger was afraid to push the issue because of what happened to Dr. Dao.When she flew back to Hawaii, United Airlines gave her a lei.\n\nA family on a Delta Airlines flight was removed from the aircraft and threatened with jail time and loss of custody of their children by Delta Airlines staff for not giving up a seat that they had purchased for their teenage son who was not flying on the flight. Delta refused to provide any compensation or lodging for the family.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4498402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4498402", "title": "William H. T. Bush", "text": "William H. T. Bush\n\nWilliam Henry Trotter \"Bucky\" Bush, CStJ (July 14, 1938 – February 27, 2018) was an American businessman. He was the youngest son of Prescott Sheldon Bush and Dorothy Walker Bush, the youngest brother of former President George H. W. Bush, and an uncle of former President George W. Bush.\n\nBorn in Greenwich, Connecticut, he graduated from the Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Connecticut in 1956, and earned a B.A. from Yale University in 1960, where he became a brother of the Psi Upsilon fraternity. In 2009, he was appointed a Commander Brother of the Most Venerable Order of the Hospital of Saint John of Jerusalem by HM Queen Elizabeth II.\n\nBush lived in St. Louis, Missouri, also the home of his late grandfather George Herbert Walker. He died on February 27, 2018, in West Palm Beach, Florida.\n\nBush worked in banking and venture capital, and sat on a number of corporate boards. He founded Bush O'Donnell & Co. in 1986 and remained CEO of that firm until his death. He worked on the election campaigns of George H. W., George W., and Jeb Bush, primarily as a fundraiser.\n\nA former president of and director of the St. Louis-based Boatmen's Bancshares from 1978 to 1986, Bush was active in various St. Louis civic functions: he was chairman of the Board of Trustees of Saint Louis University from 1985 to 1992, chairman of the Missouri Botanical Garden from 1991 to 1993 and president of the Municipal Opera Association from 2005 to 2006. He was also a director of Maritz, Inc, and served on the Blue Cross Blue Shield of Missouri board of directors from 1989 to 1994.\n\nOn May 18, 2010, Bush was taken to Methodist Hospital of Indianapolis after collapsing during a WellPoint shareholder's meeting in Indianapolis. Bush was on the company's board of directors. One of the doctors at the hospital said that Bush was alert and talking and he \"felt like he was going to be OK\".\n"}
{"id": "11857769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11857769", "title": "William Thornton Kemper Sr.", "text": "William Thornton Kemper Sr.\n\nWilliam Thornton Kemper Sr. (November 3, 1866 – January 19, 1938) was the patriarch of the Missouri Kemper family, which developed both Commerce Bancshares and United Missouri Bank to become a major banking family in the Midwest. He also founded the Kemper Grain Company and the Kemper Loan and Investment Company. He was treasurer of the Kansas City Commercial Club, a club made of local businessmen to promote Kansas City's growth.\n\nKemper was born in Gallatin, Missouri, the son of Sarah Ann (née Paxton) and James Madison Kemper. He swept floors in St. Joseph, Missouri, at the shoe store of his father. One of his accounts was with the Valley Falls, Kansas, firm that his future father-in-law Rufus Henry Crosby owned. He married Charlotte Crosby in 1890 and moved to Kansas City, Missouri, in 1893 where he became president of Commerce Bank in 1903.\n\nIn 1913 he sold Commerce Bank shares at a price of $220 a share and bought controlling interest in City Center Bank (which was to become UMB Bank). Kemper was to buy back the original Commerce Bank at $86/share.\n\nHis son James M. Kemper became president of Commerce Bank, while R. Crosby Kemper became president of City Center.\n\nKemper’s good fortune was not confined to banking. After being appointed receiver for the bankrupt assets of the Kansas City, Mexico & Orient Railroad, Kemper was awarded 15,000 shares for his duties. Oil was discovered along the railroad's right-of-way. Kemper would make the biggest portion of his fortune by selling these assets to the Atchison, Topeka and Santa Fe Railway, and converting his shares into Santa Fe stock.\n\nKemper's history was intertwined with that of Harry S. Truman. Truman's father, John Anderson Truman, traded grain commodities futures alongside Kemper until John Truman lost his fortune. John took Harry, then a teenager, to the local Democratic functions in Kansas City where Kemper was also in attendance. Kemper arranged for Truman to be a page at the 1900 Democratic National Convention in Kansas City. As a young man Harry would go to work in the National Bank of Commerce, 1903–1905, where Kemper was a director. In 1934 during Truman's first run for the United States Senate, Kemper bought the assets of the failed Continental National Bank which included the mortgage on Truman's failed haberdashery and in turn allowed Truman to retire it for $1,000 (while at the same time also contributing $1,000 to Truman's campaign).\n\nHis former residence was at 1007 Westover Road in Kansas City.\n\nHe is the great-great-grandfather of actress Ellie Kemper and writer Carrie Kemper.\n\n"}
