{"id": "19426632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19426632", "title": "63 Nassau Street", "text": "63 Nassau Street\n\n63 Nassau Street is a landmark building located on Nassau Street between Fulton and John Streets in the Financial District of Manhattan, New York City. It was built in the Italianate style c.1844, and had its cast-iron facade, attributed to James Bogardus, added in 1857-59, making it one of the first cast-iron buildings in the city. The attribution to Bogardus, a pioneer in the architectural use of cast iron, comes because of medallions of Benjamin Franklin identical to those on four other Bogardus projects, all now demolished. George Washington was also once represented with medallions.\n\nThe building is an extremely rare extant example of the work of Bogardus, one of only five known Bogardus buildings in the United States. The building was designated a New York City landmark on May 15, 2007.\nThe 5-story, 3-bay Italianate style cast-iron front facade was originally composed of superimposed arcades, with a 2-story arcade capped by an intermediate modillioned foliate cornice, surmounted by a 3-story arcade. The arcades are formed by elongated fluted Corinthian columns (most of the capitals’ leaves are now missing); rope moldings, which also surround the spandrel panels; molded arches with faceted keystones and molded paneled reveals; and foliate spandrels. The ground floor was first altered in 1919.\n\nBetween the second and third floors the building featured a series of wreath-encircled portraits of George Washington and Benjamin Franklin cast, like the rest of the facade, in iron. The two portraits of Washington are missing from the facade as of 2008. Similar portraits once appeared on two other Bogardus buildings, the Baltimore Sun building in Baltimore, Maryland, and the New York building of Harper & Brothers. Both of those buildings have been torn down.\n\nThe facade is terminated by a widely projecting, modillioned foliate cornice supported by a corbel table. Windows were originally two-over-two double-hung wood sash. These were replaced by wood casement windows with transoms prior to 1928 on the upper three stories, and by single-pane windows on the second story during the 1980s. The northern storefront consists of a deeply recessed entrance with glass door and transom, flanking show windows set above recessed bases, and a mosaic tile floor. A metallic signage band extends partially into the second story. The southern metal-and-glass storefront is non-historic, with a fixed awning.\n\n\nNotes\nSources\n"}
{"id": "40446673", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40446673", "title": "Abdullah bin Musa'ad bin Abdulaziz Al Saud", "text": "Abdullah bin Musa'ad bin Abdulaziz Al Saud\n\nAbdullah bin Musa'ad bin Abdul Aziz (born 19 February 1965, Riyadh) () is a Saudi prince and businessman. He is a son of Prince Musa'id bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and was appointed Saudi Arabia's General President of Youth Welfare in 2014. He has various business interests including paper manufacturing in his homeland, along with various sporting franchises. He is also the Chairman of Sheffield United FC Football Club. His half-brother Faisal bin Musaid was the assassin of King Faisal.\n\nPrince Abdullah, is a son of Prince Musa'ed bin Abdulaziz Al Saud and his mother is Princess Fatima bint Hashim bin Turki bik Alngers of Turkish descent. He was born in 1965 in Riyadh. Before moving to study in Beirut he returned to Riyadh at the age of ten and studied in the schools of Al Faisaliah. After completing his high school, he moved to King Saud University studying Engineering of industrial sector and received his bachelor's degree with honours, then got a master's degree in engineering from King Saud University in Riyadh.\n\nPrince Abdullah bin Musa'ad established a paper manufacturing company in Saudi Arabia (SPMC Group) in 1989, accompanied by some partners, which became one of the largest companies in Middle East, with significant overseas interests. He now owns a 40 percent stake in the operation.\n\nPrince Abdullah was the chairman of Al-Hilal FC between 2002 and 2004, during which time the club won the Crown Prince Cup. He remains a supporter of the club. In September 2013, he purchased a 50 percent stake in English football league club Sheffield United and became co-chairman with Kevin McCabe. In February 2018, Prince Abdullah entered into negotiations with McCabe to take full control of Sheffield United.\n\nIn June 2014, Prince Abdullah was appointed to the position of General President of Youth Welfare in Saudi Arabia.\n\nPrince Abdullah married Princess Jawaher bint Fahd bin Abdullah Al Saud. He has five daughters and two sons. Princess Sarah is married to Abdullah bin Mute'b Bin Abdullah Bin Abdulaziz Al-Saud, the grandson of King Abdullah. Princess Nouf is married to Saud bin Mansour bin Mute'b bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. Prince Abdullah is known for his love of reading and American football. He is a fan of San Francisco 49ers, an American football club based in San Francisco. During the annual football season, he watches the games with friends every Sunday.\n\n"}
{"id": "18008213", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18008213", "title": "Arthur S. Hara", "text": "Arthur S. Hara\n\nArthur Shigeru Hara, is a prominent Japanese-Canadian businessman and philanthropist, renowned for his work in promoting Canada's relations with Pacific Rim nations (especially Japan).\n\nHe was born in Vancouver to Japanese parents. He graduated from Britannia Secondary School before enrolling at Kobe University. He joined Mitsubishi Canada Ltd in 1962 and became the company's first Canadian chairman in 1983.\n\nHe was chairman of the Board of Governors of the University of British Columbia and served as Chairman of the Vancouver Board of Trade between 1985 and 1986. He was a member of the board of the Canadian Unity Council and director of Canada West Foundation. \n\nBetween 1988 and 1994, he was chairman of the Asia Pacific Foundation of Canada and was a member of the Vancouver Summit Society which prepared the ground for APEC's controversial 1997 summit in Vancouver.\n\nHe was inducted as a Member of the Order of Canada in 1985 and in 1992 he was promoted to Officer of the Order of Canada. He has also been awarded the Canada Confederation Medal, Queen Elizabeth II Golden Jubilee Medal, Order of the Rising Sun, and Honorary Doctor of Laws in 1990. In 2013, he was made a member of the Order of British Columbia in recognition for being an \"Asia-Pacific businessman and economic leader\". \n"}
{"id": "18789384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18789384", "title": "Avo Uvezian", "text": "Avo Uvezian\n\nAvo Uvezian (March 22, 1926 in Beirut, French Lebanon – March 24, 2017) was an Armenian-American jazz pianist and cigar manufacturer.\n\nAvo Uvezian was born to a family of musicians. His mother was a singer, while his father was a composer and conductor for a symphony orchestra. His parents' experience with music allowed him to develop his talents as a young man. \n\nUvezian joined a jazz trio called the Lebanon Boys. They received a contract to perform at a hotel in Baghdad where they stayed for one year. After this, they signed a contract to perform at a hotel in Iran. While there, Avo received an invitation from Shah Reza Pahlavi to perform at his palace. In an interview with Cigar Aficionado, Avo described this point in his career:\n\n\"I spoke Farsi, so it sort of broke the ice with the Shah. I remember they were trying to dance the jitterbug and I said, 'You don't know how to dance that right. Let me show you.' We were invited back for two or three more events and finally, I became the Shah's pianist. The hotel didn't care since the Shah owned it.\n\nAfter a year of performing in Iran, the Shah arranged for Avo to travel to the United States of America in 1947. While living in New York, Avo played for multiple bands while studying classical piano and composition at the Juilliard School.\n\nUvezian was drafted during the Korean War and sent to Fort Dix in New Jersey where he was put through infantry training. After impressing his officers with his musical talents, Uvezian was taken out of the Infantry and put into band training. When he arrived in Korea, the band would play at an Officers Club where they got paid twenty dollars a night. Uvezian was honorably discharged in 1952.\n\nAfter being discharged, Uvezian spent the next few years working with his father-in-law designing jewelry. This eventually brought him to Puerto Rico where he was paid to perform at the Palmas Del Mar resort.\n\nUvezian claimed to have written the music for Frank Sinatra's song \"Strangers in the Night\", even though the song is credited to Bert Kaempfert. When he was living in New York, a friend who knew Frank Sintatra set up a meeting to discuss one of his melodies. Somebody else had lyrics to it under the name \"Broken Guitar\". While Sinatra liked the melody, he asked for the lyrics to be altered. Sinatra recorded the song in 1966. However, before Sinatra heard the music, Uvezian had sent it to Kaempfert, for it to be published in Germany. While he is not officially credited for the song, Uvezian stated that Kaempfert himself had given him credit for its creation, including in a written letter.\n\nIn 1983, when Avo's daughter Karyn was born, he went to Switzerland for her christening. Avo had a Cuban cigar after the meal and was not happy with the price. His friend mentioned that they should make their own. Uvezian traveled to the Dominican Republic, where he searched for two years for a satisfactory production facility. Avo finally met Hendrik Kelner, and after smoking samples, Avo offered Kelner twenty-five percent more than he had originally offered. His presumption was that paying Kelner more would ensure that Avo cigars would receive the best tobacco. Michael Roux advised Avo to use attractive packaging. In the first year, 120,000 Avo cigars were sold. By the third year, Avo sold over 750,000 cigars. In 1995, Davidoff paid Avo Uvezian an estimated $10 million for the rights to distribute his cigars. In 1996, more than two million Avo cigars were sold.\n\nAvo met his wife, Marie Sahakian, while performing at a New York resort in the Catskill Mountains in 1951. They had three children: Jeffrey, Robert, and Ronny.\n\n"}
{"id": "4232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4232", "title": "Barter", "text": "Barter\n\nIn trade, barter (derived from \"baretor\") is a system of exchange where participants in a transaction directly exchange goods or services for other goods or services without using a medium of exchange, such as money. Economists distinguish barter from gift economies in many ways; barter, for example, features immediate reciprocal exchange, not delayed in time. Barter usually takes place on a bilateral basis, but may be multilateral (i.e., mediated through a trade exchange). In most developed countries, barter usually only exists parallel to monetary systems to a very limited extent. Market actors use barter as a replacement for money as the method of exchange in times of monetary crisis, such as when currency becomes unstable (e.g., hyperinflation or a deflationary spiral) or simply unavailable for conducting commerce.\n\nEconomists since the times of Adam Smith (1723-1790), looking at non-specific pre-modern societies as examples, have used the inefficiency of barter to explain the emergence of money, of \"the\" economy, and hence of the discipline of economics itself. However, ethnographic studies have shown that no present or past society has used barter without any other medium of exchange or measurement, nor have anthropologists found evidence that money emerged from barter, instead finding that gift-giving (credit extended on a personal basis with an inter-personal balance maintained over the long term) was the most usual means of exchange of goods and services.\n\nAdam Smith, the father of modern economics, sought to demonstrate that markets (and economies) pre-existed the state, and hence should be free of government regulation. He argued (against conventional wisdom) that money was not the creation of governments. Markets emerged, in his view, out of the division of labour, by which individuals began to specialize in specific crafts and hence had to depend on others for subsistence goods. These goods were first exchanged by barter. Specialization depended on trade, but was hindered by the \"double coincidence of wants\" which barter requires, i.e., for the exchange to occur, each participant must want what the other has. To complete this hypothetical history, craftsmen would stockpile one particular good, be it salt or metal, that they thought no one would refuse. This is the origin of money according to Smith. Money, as a universally desired medium of exchange, allows each half of the transaction to be separated.\n\nBarter is characterized in Adam Smith's \"The Wealth of Nations\" by a disparaging vocabulary: \"higgling, haggling, swapping, dickering.\" It has also been characterized as negative reciprocity, or \"selfish profiteering.\"\n\nAnthropologists have argued, in contrast, \"that when something resembling barter \"does\" occur in stateless societies it is almost always between strangers.\" Barter occurred between strangers, not fellow villagers, and hence cannot be used to naturalistically explain the origin of money without the state. Since most people engaged in trade knew each other, exchange was fostered through the extension of credit. Marcel Mauss, author of 'The Gift', argued that the first economic contracts were to \"not\" act in one's economic self-interest, and that before money, exchange was fostered through the processes of reciprocity and redistribution, not barter. Everyday exchange relations in such societies are characterized by generalized reciprocity, or a non-calculative familial \"communism\" where each takes according to their needs, and gives as they have.\n\nSince direct barter does not require payment in money, it can be utilized when money is in short supply, when there is little information about the credit worthiness of trade partners, or when there is a lack of trust between those trading.\n\nBarter is an option to those who cannot afford to store their small supply of wealth in money, especially in hyperinflation situations where money devalues quickly.\n\nThe limitations of barter are often explained in terms of its inefficiencies in facilitating exchange in comparison to money.\n\nIt is said that barter is 'inefficient' because:\n\n\nOther anthropologists have questioned whether barter is typically between \"total\" strangers, a form of barter known as \"silent trade\". Silent trade, also called silent barter, dumb barter (\"dumb\" here used in its old meaning of \"mute\"), or depot trade, is a method by which traders who cannot speak each other's language can trade without talking. However, Benjamin Orlove has shown that while barter occurs through \"silent trade\" (between strangers), it also occurs in commercial markets as well. \"Because barter is a difficult way of conducting trade, it will occur only where there are strong institutional constraints on the use of money or where the barter symbolically denotes a special social relationship and is used in well-defined conditions. To sum up, multipurpose money in markets is like lubrication for machines - necessary for the most efficient function, but not necessary for the existence of the market itself.\"\n\nIn his analysis of barter between coastal and inland villages in the Trobriand Islands, Keith Hart highlighted the difference between highly ceremonial gift exchange between community leaders, and the barter that occurs between individual households. The haggling that takes place between strangers is possible because of the larger temporary political order established by the gift exchanges of leaders. From this he concludes that barter is \"an atomized interaction predicated upon the presence of society\" (i.e. that social order established by gift exchange), and not typical between complete strangers.\n\nAs Orlove noted, barter may occur in commercial economies, usually during periods of monetary crisis. During such a crisis, currency may be in short supply, or highly devalued through hyperinflation. In such cases, money ceases to be the universal medium of exchange or standard of value. Money may be in such short supply that it becomes an item of barter itself rather than the means of exchange. Barter may also occur when people cannot afford to keep money (as when hyperinflation quickly devalues it).\n\nAn example of this would be during the Crisis in Bolivarian Venezuela, when Venezuelans resorted to bartering as a result of hyperinflation.\n\nEconomic historian Karl Polanyi has argued that where barter is widespread, and cash supplies limited, barter is aided by the use of credit, brokerage, and money as a unit of account (i.e. used to price items). All of these strategies are found in ancient economies including Ptolemaic Egypt. They are also the basis for more recent barter exchange systems.\n\nWhile one-to-one bartering is practiced between individuals and businesses on an informal basis, organized barter exchanges have developed to conduct third party bartering which helps overcome some of the limitations of barter. A barter exchange operates as a broker and bank in which each participating member has an account that is debited when purchases are made, and credited when sales are made.\n\nModern barter and trade has evolved considerably to become an effective method of increasing sales, conserving cash, moving inventory, and making use of excess production capacity for businesses around the world. Businesses in a barter earn trade credits (instead of cash) that are deposited into their account. They then have the ability to purchase goods and services from other members utilizing their trade credits – they are not obligated to purchase from those whom they sold to, and vice versa. The exchange plays an important role because they provide the record-keeping, brokering expertise and monthly statements to each member. Commercial exchanges make money by charging a commission on each transaction either all on the buy side, all on the sell side, or a combination of both. Transaction fees typically run between 8 and 15%.\n\nThroughout the 18th century, retailers began to abandon the prevailing system of bartering. Retailers operating out of the Palais complex in Paris, France were among the first in Europe to abandon the bartering, and adopt fixed-prices thereby sparing their clientele the hassle of bartering. The Palais retailers stocked luxury goods that appealed to the wealthy elite and upper middle classes. Stores were fitted with long glass exterior windows which allowed the emerging middle-classes to window shop and indulge in fantasies, even when they may not have been able to afford the high retail prices. Thus, the Palais-Royal became one of the first examples of a new style of shopping arcade, which adopted the trappings of a sophisticated, modern shopping complex and also changed pricing structures, for both the aristocracy and the middle classes.\n\nThe Owenite socialists in Britain and the United States in the 1830s were the first to attempt to organize barter exchanges. Owenism developed a \"theory of equitable exchange\" as a critique of the exploitative wage relationship between capitalist and labourer, by which all profit accrued to the capitalist. To counteract the uneven playing field between employers and employed, they proposed \"schemes of labour notes based on labour time, thus institutionalizing Owen's demand that human labour, not money, be made the standard of value.\" This alternate currency eliminated price variability between markets, as well as the role of merchants who bought low and sold high. The system arose in a period where paper currency was an innovation. Paper currency was an IOU circulated by a bank (a promise to pay, not a payment in itself). Both merchants and an unstable paper currency created difficulties for direct producers.\n\nAn alternate currency, denominated in labour time, would prevent profit taking by middlemen; all goods exchanged would be priced only in terms of the amount of labour that went into them as expressed in the maxim 'Cost the limit of price'. It became the basis of exchanges in London, and in America, where the idea was implemented at the New Harmony communal settlement by Josiah Warren in 1826, and in his Cincinnati 'Time store' in 1827. Warren ideas were adopted by other Owenites and currency reformers, even though the labour exchanges were relatively short lived.\n\nIn England, about 30 to 40 cooperative societies sent their surplus goods to an \"exchange bazaar\" for direct barter in London, which later adopted a similar labour note. The British Association for Promoting Cooperative Knowledge established an \"equitable labour exchange\" in 1830. This was expanded as the National Equitable Labour Exchange in 1832 on Grays Inn Road in London. These efforts became the basis of the British cooperative movement of the 1840s. In 1848, the socialist and first self-designated anarchist Pierre-Joseph Proudhon postulated a system of \"time chits\". In 1875, Karl Marx wrote of \"Labor Certificates\" (\"Arbeitszertifikaten\") in his Critique of the Gotha Program of a \"certificate from society that [the labourer] has furnished such and such an amount of labour\", which can be used to draw \"from the social stock of means of consumption as much as costs the same amount of labour.\"\n\nThe first exchange system was the Swiss WIR Bank. It was founded in 1934 as a result of currency shortages after the stock market crash of 1929. \"WIR\" is both an abbreviation of Wirtschaftsring (economic circle) and the word for \"we\" in German, reminding participants that the economic circle is also a community.\n\nIn Spain (particularly the Catalonia region) there is a growing number of exchange markets. These barter markets or swap meets work without money. Participants bring things they do not need and exchange them for the unwanted goods of another participant. Swapping among three parties often helps satisfy tastes when trying to get around the rule that money is not allowed.\n\nMichael Linton originated the term \"local exchange trading system\" (LETS) in 1983 and for a time ran the Comox Valley LETSystems in Courtenay, British Columbia. LETS networks use interest-free local credit so direct swaps do not need to be made. For instance, a member may earn credit by doing childcare for one person and spend it later on carpentry with another person in the same network. In LETS, unlike other local currencies, no scrip is issued, but rather transactions are recorded in a central location open to all members. As credit is issued by the network members, for the benefit of the members themselves, LETS are considered mutual credit systems.\n\nAccording to the International Reciprocal Trade Association, the industry trade body, more than 450,000 businesses transacted $10 billion globally in 2008 – and officials expect trade volume to grow by 15% in 2009.\n\nIt is estimated that over 450,000 businesses in the United States were involved in barter exchange activities in 2010. There are approximately 400 commercial and corporate barter companies serving all parts of the world. There are many opportunities for entrepreneurs to start a barter exchange. Several major cities in the U.S. and Canada do not currently have a local barter exchange. There are two industry groups in the United States, the National Association of Trade Exchanges (NATE) and the International Reciprocal Trade Association (IRTA). Both offer training and promote high ethical standards among their members. Moreover, each has created its own currency through which its member barter companies can trade. NATE's currency is the known as the BANC and IRTA's currency is called Universal Currency (UC).\n\nIn Canada, barter continues to thrive. The largest b2b barter exchange is Tradebank, founded in 1987. P2P bartering has seen a renaissance in major Canadian cities through Bunz - built as a network of Facebook groups that went on to become a stand-alone bartering based app in January 2016. Within the first year, Bunz accumulated over 75,000 users in over 200 cities worldwide.\n\nIn the United States, the largest barter exchange and corporate trade group is International Monetary Systems, founded in 1985, now with representation in various countries.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand the largest barter exchange is Bartercard, founded in 1991, with offices in the United Kingdom, United States, Cyprus, UAE and Thailand.\n\nCorporate barter focuses on larger transactions, which is different from a traditional, retail oriented barter exchange. Corporate barter exchanges typically use media and advertising as leverage for their larger transactions. It entails the use of a currency unit called a \"trade-credit\". The trade-credit must not only be known and guaranteed, but also be valued in an amount the media and advertising could have been purchased for had the \"client\" bought it themselves (contract to eliminate ambiguity and risk).\n\nSoviet bilateral trade is occasionally called \"barter trade\", because although the purchases were denominated in U.S. dollars, the transactions were credited to an international clearing account, avoiding the use of hard cash.\n\nIn the United States, Karl Hess used bartering to make it harder for the IRS to seize his wages and as a form of tax resistance. Hess explained how he turned to barter in an op-ed for \"The New York Times\" in 1975. However the IRS now requires barter exchanges to be reported as per the Tax Equity and Fiscal Responsibility Act of 1982. Barter exchanges are considered taxable revenue by the IRS and must be reported on a 1099-B form. According to the IRS, \"The fair market value of goods and services exchanged must be included in the income of both parties.\"\n\nOther countries, though, do not have the reporting requirement that the U.S. does concerning proceeds from barter transactions, but taxation is handled the same way as a cash transaction. If one barters for a profit, one pays the appropriate tax; if one generates a loss in the transaction, they have a loss. Bartering for business is also taxed accordingly as business income or business expense. Many barter exchanges require that one register as a business.\n\nSince the 1830s, barter in some western market economies has been aided by exchanges which use alternative currencies based on the labour theory of value, and which are intended to prevent profit-taking by intermediaries. Examples include the Owenite socialists, the Cincinnati Time store, and more recently Ithaca HOURS (time banking) and the LETS system.\n\n"}
{"id": "3617843", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3617843", "title": "Capitalism II", "text": "Capitalism II\n\nCapitalism II () is the business simulation video game sequel to the original \"Capitalism\". It was created by Enlight and published by Ubi Soft in 2001.\nThe player creates and controls a business empire. This in-depth strategy game covers almost every aspect of business that could be encountered in the real world, including marketing, manufacturing, purchasing, importing and retailing. It has two new campaigns (Capitalist Campaign and Entrepreneur Campaign) plus an in-depth tutorial.\n\nThe gameplay is very similar to the original version. One noticeable difference from \"Capitalism\" I is that there are fewer products derived from agricultural resources.\n\n\"Capitalism II\" will run on modern versions of Microsoft Windows whereas the previous versions would not.\n\n\"Capitalism II\" has also been ported to Mac OS X by Virtual Programming.\n\nA new expanded version of \"Capitalism II\", called \"Capitalism Lab\", was released on December 14, 2012. \"Capitalism Lab\" has many new features, improvements and a new concept of challenge games.\n\n"}
{"id": "11486363", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11486363", "title": "Contractual term", "text": "Contractual term\n\nA contractual term is \"Any provision forming part of a contract\". Each term gives rise to a contractual obligation, breach of which can give rise to litigation. Not all terms are stated expressly and some terms carry less legal gravity as they are peripheral to the objectives of the contract.\n\nConditions are terms that go to the very root of a contract. Breach of a condition will entitle the innocent party to terminate the contract. A warranty is less imperative than a condition, so the contract will survive a breach. Breach of either a condition or a warranty will give rise to damages.\n\nIt is an objective matter of fact whether a term goes to the root of a contract. By way of illustration, an actress's obligation to perform the opening night of a theatrical production is a condition, whereas a singer's obligation to perform during the first three days of rehearsal is a warranty.\n\nStatute may also declare a term or nature of term to be a condition or warranty. For example, the \"Sale of Goods Act\" 1979 (UK) s15A provides that terms as to title, description, quality, and sample (as described in the Act) are conditions save in certain defined circumstances.\n\nLord Diplock, in \"Hong Kong Fir Shipping Co Ltd v Kawasaki Kisen Kaisha Ltd\", created the concept of an innominate term, breach of which may or may not go to the root of the contract depending upon the nature of the breach. Breach of these terms, as with all terms, will give rise to damages. Whether or not it repudiates the contract depends upon whether legal benefit of the contract has been removed from the innocent party. Megaw LJ, in 1970, preferred the use of the classic categorizing into condition or warranty due to legal certainty. This was interpreted by the House of Lords as merely restricting its application in \"Reardon Smith Line Ltd. v Hansen-Tangen\".\n\nIn general, parties can only sue for enforcement of valid contractual terms as opposed to representations or mere puffs.\n\nOnly certain statements create contractual obligations. Statements can be split into the following types:\n\nThere are various factors that a court may take into account in determining the nature of a statement. These include:\n\nThe parol evidence rule limits what things can be taken into account when trying to interpret a contract. This rule has practically ceased operation under UK law, but remains functional in Australian Law.\n\nA term may either be expressed or implied. An express term is stated by the parties during negotiation or written in a contractual document. Implied terms are not stated but nevertheless form a provision of the contract.\n\nThe Privy Council established a five-stage test in \"BP Refinery (Westernport) Pty Ltd v Shire of Hastings\". However, the English Court of Appeal sounded a note of caution with regard to the \"BP\" case in \"Philips Electronique Grand Public SA v British Sky Broadcasting Ltd\" in which the Master of the Rolls described the test as \"almost misleading\" in its simplicity.\n\nThe High Court of Australia has ruled that the test in \"BP\" applies only to formal contracts. In the case of an informal contract, where the parties have not attempted to stipulate the full terms, the courts should imply a term upon referring to the imputed intention of the parties, provided that the particular term is necessary for the effective operation of the contract. In implying terms in an informal contract, the High Court has suggested that a flexible approach is required. In a case where it is apparent that the parties have not attempted to spell out the full terms of their contract, the court should imply a term by reference to the imputed intentions of the parties if, but only if, it can be seen that the implication of the particular term is necessary for the reasonable or effective operation of a contract of that nature in the circumstances of the case. Obviousness also remains an important element in implying a term in an informal contract.\n\nThese are terms that have been implied into standardized relationships.\n\n\nThe rules by which many contracts are governed are provided in specialized statutes that deal with particular subjects. Most countries, for example, have statutes which deal directly with sale of goods, lease transactions, and trade practices. For example, each American state except Louisiana has adopted Article 2 of the Uniform Commercial Code, which regulates contracts for the sale of goods. The most important legislation implying terms under United Kingdom law are the Sale of Goods Act 1979, the Consumer Protection (Distance Selling) Regulations 2000 and the Supply of Goods and Services Act 1982 which imply terms into all contracts whereby goods are sold or services provided.\n\nOne is generally bound by the custom of the industry that one is in. To imply a term due to custom or trade, one must prove the existence of the custom, which must be notorious, certain, legal and reasonable.\n\nIf two parties have regularly conducted business on certain terms, the terms may be assumed to be same for each contract made, if not expressly agreed to the contrary. The parties must have dealt on numerous occasions and been aware of the term purported to be implied. In \"Hollier v Rambler Motors Ltd\" four occasions over five years was held to be sufficient. In \"British Crane Hire Corp Ltd v Ipswich Plant Hire Ltd\" written terms were held to have been implied into an oral contract in which there was no mention of written terms.\n\nIt is common for lengthy negotiations to be written into a heads of agreement document (sometimes unsigned, and sometimes labelled 'subject to contract') that includes a clause to the effect that the rest of the agreement is to be negotiated. Although these cases may appear to fall into the category of agreement to agree, Australian courts will imply an obligation to negotiate in good faith provided that certain conditions are satisfied:\n\nThe test of whether one has acted in good faith is a subjective one; the cases suggest honesty, and possibly also reasonableness. There is no such implied term under UK common law: an attempt was made by Lord Denning in a series of case during the 1970s and 1980s but they are no longer considered 'good law'. European legislation imposes this duty, but only in certain circumstances.\n\nThe Unfair Terms in Consumer Contracts Regulations 1999 reg 8 renders ineffective any 'unfair' contractual term if made between a seller or supplier and a consumer.\nRegulation 5 of the statutory instrument further elaborates upon the concept of 'unfair', which is rather novel to English law. 'Unfair' is a term in standard form (specifically that was not individually negotiated) that \"causes a significant imbalance in the parties' rights and obligations arising under the contract to the detriment of the consumer\". It must also be shown the term lacks 'good faith'; the claim failed in \"Director General of Fair Trading v First National Bank plc\", as striking down a relatively high interest rate (falling short of extortionary rates) would mean borrower could have safely ignored the interest rates in its loan agreements (see UK requirements for consumer financial advice/advice waivers in major consumer loan agreements) and that high-rate lenders would receive no interest.\n\nIf a contract specifies \"subject to contract\", it may fall into one of three categories as identified in \"Masters v Cameron\":\nSubsequent authorities have been willing to recognize a fourth category in addition to those stated in \"Masters v Cameron\".\n\nIf a contract specifies \"subject to finance\", it may impose certain obligations on the purchaser:\n\nIf the contract is silent on the level of effort required by the finance seeker (usually purchaser) to obtain finance, the finance seeker may come under an implied duty to cooperate. Furthermore, whether the finance seeker may validly claim non-fulfillment of a contingent condition, despite being genuinely satisfied with finance he or she obtained before the expiration of the contingent condition, was not decided in \"Meehan v Jones\".\n\n\"Subject to finance\" provisions may be also referred to as contingent conditions, which come under two categories: condition precedent and condition subsequent.\nConditions precedent are conditions that have to be complied with before performance of a contract is required by both parties\nWith conditions subsequent, parties do not need to perform the contract if a condition is not yet (such as official certification to practice in a particular course of business). The non-fulfillment of a contingent condition means that the parties are not required to perform their side of the respective bargain.\n"}
{"id": "13484354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13484354", "title": "Corporate structure", "text": "Corporate structure\n\nA normal corporate structure consists of various departments that contribute to the company's overall mission and goals. Common departments include Marketing, Finance, Operations, Human Resource, and IT. These five divisions represent the major departments within a publicly traded company, though there are often smaller departments within autonomous firms. \nThere is typically a CEO, and Board of Directors composed of the directors of each department. There are also company presidents, vice presidents, and CFOs.\nThere is a great diversity in corporate forms as enterprises may range from single company to multi-corporate conglomerate. The four main corporate structures are Functional, Divisional, Geographic, and the Matrix.\nRealistically, most corporations tend to have a “hybrid” structure, which is a combination of different \nmodels with one dominant strategy. <ref http://www.bridgespan.org/getmedia/b1139597-adfe-4dd7-bbb2-ac8c67883020/Effective-Organizations_-Structural-Design.pdf.aspx\n\nThe kind of differentiation and diversity among corporations is of importance to corporate law (for example such difference in corporation type that has impact on corporate structure is the difference between public owned and proprietary companies).\nChoosing a structure for a company is an important decision and must be strategically thought out because it could either aid or harm the making of business. The structure must also be a good fit for the type of activities, goals, and vision of the company. The organizational structure is a reflection of how convenient business is conducted.\n\nThis model is commonly used in single-program organizations. It is basically the standard structure mentioned earlier, which is organized around departments. This structure is most appropriate for all small organizations.\n\nDivisional structures are also called 'product structures' because they are based on a certain product or project. This structure is most common in multi-service organizations. Normally, it's based on the departments divided in the firm.\n\nGeographic structures are used in multi-site organizations and are frequently used by networks across different geographic areas.\n\nThe Matrix structure is probably the most complicated model of them all because it is organised around multiple dimensions (e.g. geography and product), typically with more than one supervisor. This structure is commonly used in very large organisations because a greater volume requires greater co-ordination. However, this structure is very difficult to manage so it is usually better to reconsider its use and replace it with a different type of structure, then compensate for the tradeoffs.\n\nIn addition to those models, there are other factors that make up the structure of an organization. Depending on the chain of command, a company's structure could be classified as either vertical or horizontal, as well as centralized or decentralized. A vertically structured organization or a \"tall\" company describes a chain of management, usually with a CEO at the top delegating authority to lower-level managers through mid-level managers. Horizontal or \"flat\" companies, however, have almost no middle-managers, which implies that high-level managers get involved in daily tasks and interact with customers and front-line personnel. A centralized organizational structure describes how a company's direction and decisions are set by one individual only. Centralization compliments companies with \"tall\" structures to create Bureaucratic organizations. Decentralized organizational structures allow individuals some autonomy at each level of the business, because they join the decision-making process. Evidently, classifying organizations as centralized or decentralized is linked to them being \"tall\" or \"flat\".\n\nThere is an emerging trend in the way companies shape their organizational structures. More businesses are moving towards a much flatter, decentralized organizational structure. \nTechnological developments accelerate these organizational changes as they improve the efficiency of business, causing it to restructure departments, modify position requirements, or add and remove jobs. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "32215208", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32215208", "title": "Council of Trust", "text": "Council of Trust\n\nCouncils of Trust (') were established in businesses and companies with more than 20 employees in Nazi Germany following the introduction of the Labour organization law of 20 January 1934. They served as the only representation of employees to the “factory leader” (i.e. entrepreneur) (') in order \"to increase mutual trust within the factory community\".\nCouncillors were elected by secret ballots, but the list of candidates was prepared by the factory leader and the German Labour Front overseer ('). The councils did not play an active role in industrial relations, except to serve as a platform for discussing working conditions regulated in the “factory code of rules” (').\n\nWhile in 1934 only 2 per cent of businesses and companies were required to establish a council of trust, this affected 46.2 per cent of employees.\n\n"}
{"id": "8073416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8073416", "title": "DIRKS", "text": "DIRKS\n\nDIRKS, an acronym for Designing and Implementing Recordkeeping Systems, is a comprehensive manual outlining the process for creating records management systems including various business information records and transactions as outlined in the Australian Standard for Records Management - AS ISO 15489. DIRKS was developed by the National Archives of Australia in collaboration with the State Records Authority of New South Wales.\n\nThe manual consists of two parts, part one is the user's guide and part two is the set of steps themselves. DIRKS is an eight-step process in which all aspects, or as many as possible, of a business are studied in order to achieve a complete records management practice. In addition to these eight steps DIRKS includes several templates and questionnaires to guide one through the DIRKS methodology.\n\nDIRKS was replaced in 2007 at the Australian Commonwealth level, but continues to be in use at state level in New South Wales as a non-tool to assist the public sector in complying with the State Records Authority of New South Wales State Records Act 1998.\n\nBefore a preliminary investigation occurs DIRKS suggests a pre-preliminary investigation is performed where it is established if there is a need for a records management program at the organization and is there support for a record keeping system to be put in place. If so the preliminary investigation can take place. There are four components to the DIRKS preliminary investigation.\n\nThe purpose of Step B is to create a set of advisory statements from which an analysis of the organization's business activities can be determined. DIRKS suggests a set of systematic approaches to analyze an organization in a systematic way in order to reveal various business activities, how they are completed and who completes them.\n\nStep C has two main objectives. The first is to determine an organization's requirements in creation and retention of records of its business activities. The second objective is to document the determined requirements in a clear manner that can be used as a reference in the future.\n\nThe main objective of Step D is to assess the existing recordkeeping systems and any other related information management systems that have the capacity to capture and maintain records. This assessment is to identify weaknesses and strengths within the existing system.\n\nThe main objective of Step E is to determine which policies, procedures, standards and various other tools will help the organization achieve its recordkeeping goals. With these strategies established a model for both record management and recordkeeping can be created.\n\nThe objective in Step F is to use the information gained in steps A through E a plan can be developed that fulfills the requirements set out in Step C. The design should repair any faults found in Step D and include a full plan for integrating the new recordkeeping system\n\nThe objective of Step G is put the recordkeeping system that was designed in Step F in place.\n\nThe objective of Step H is to measure the effectiveness of the installed system and to make sure that in practice in fulfills all requirements as established and documented throughout the DIRKS manual.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2880968", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2880968", "title": "Daisuke Enomoto", "text": "Daisuke Enomoto\n\nHowever, on August 21, 2006, a Russian Federal Space Agency spokesman announced that Enomoto was \"deemed not ready to fly for exclusively medical reasons\", although he hinted that Enomoto might recover and join a later mission. His replacement on this particular flight was Iranian-American businesswoman Anousheh Ansari. Enomoto was involved in a lawsuit against Virginia-based Space Adventures in which he hoped to reclaim the $21 million he paid the company over a two-year span. During the lawsuit, it was revealed that the \"medical reason\" was chronic kidney stones. Space Adventures claims it advised Enomoto to treat the kidney stones aggressively and when he did not, they had to disqualify him from spaceflight. Enomoto claims the real reason for his disqualification was his refusal to provide additional funds to Space Adventures.\n\nEnomoto would have been the first \"self-funded\" space tourist from Japan and Asia (journalist Toyohiro Akiyama flew on Soyuz TM-11 in 1990, and could be regarded as the first space business traveller). Enomoto's flight would have taken him to the International Space Station (ISS) after lifting off from the Baikonur Cosmodrome in Kazakhstan, the world's oldest spaceport.\n\nEnomoto made international news when it was revealed that he intended to go into space wearing a costume akin to that of Char Aznable, a character from the anime series \"Mobile Suit Gundam\". His planned experiment was to put together one or more Gundam models in zero gravity.\n\n"}
{"id": "27932326", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27932326", "title": "Davor Štern", "text": "Davor Štern\n\nDavor Štern (born 18 June 1947 in Zagreb, Croatia) is a former Minister of Economy, Labour and Entrepreneurship in the Croatian Government, businessman and entrepreneur.\n\nŠtern was born in Zagreb on 18 June 1947. His father was a Hungarian Jew and his mother was from Šestanovac, Croatia. Štern himself was raised Jewish. He is fluent in English, Russian, Italian, German, Hebrew and Croatian. He graduated in 1967 at the University of Zagreb (faculty of Petroleum, Geology and Mining). Štern is a member of the Jewish community in Zagreb.\n\nAfter graduation, in 1972 he worked for INA and in 1973 he was hired by Yugoslav oil pipeline. From 1976 until 1982 he worked as director of imports in INA – Commerce. In 1982 he was appointed as a branch director of INA in Moscow, he worked in that position until 1986. From 1986 until 1991 he worked as director of Philipp Brothers – Salomon Brothers representative office in Moscow. He worked as a branch director of Glencore from 1991 until 1993. From 1993 until 1994 he worked as director of Trade Consulting in Graz, Austria. He was a Deputy Minister of Economy from 1994 until 1995, when he was appointed as a Minister of Economy. He held that office until 1997. In 1997 he became a general manager of INA – Oil Industry d.d. and he remained on that position until 2000. In 2001 he returned to Moscow as advisor to a president of TNK-BP. He remained there until 2004 and since then he has been a director of Zagreb Trade Consulting Company. On 21 October 2010 Štern was named a member of INA supervisory board. \n\nŠtern is one of the Croatia's wealthiest people, with estimated net worth of €43 million according to the list from 2007.\n\nŠtern also serves as Honorary Consul General of the Philippines in Croatia.\n\nŠtern is known for his philanthropy. He always preferred anonymous donations over those that are visible to the public.\n"}
{"id": "24026467", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24026467", "title": "Donya-e-Eqtesad", "text": "Donya-e-Eqtesad\n\nDonya-e-Eqtesad ( meaning \"World of Economics\" in Persian) is a daily newspaper.\n\n\"Donya-e-Eqtesad\" was founded in October 2002, and it has been published and circulated in Iran since then. This economic daily is among the most circulated newspapers in Iran. Donya-e-Eqtesad is considered to be an advocate of free markets, and does not have any formal affiliation with the government of Iran. It is a moderate critique of the government economic policies. Its main competitor was \"Sarmayeh\" newspaper.\n\n\"Donya-e-Eqtesad\" regularly contains editorial articles, analytical comments about the domestic as well as the world's economy, industry and mines, international oil and energy markets, banking in Iran, commerce and tourism, and the latest news from Tehran Stock Exchange.\n\n\"Donya-e-Eqtesad\" also publishes special reports on transportation and agriculture and covers the latest developments in oil exploration and exploitation operations as well as other related economic subjects.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11388002", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11388002", "title": "Ecological counseling", "text": "Ecological counseling\n\nEcological Counseling offers an approach to the conceptualization of human issues that integrates personal and environmental factors through focusing on their interaction. By doing so, the widely divergent forces that converge through the development of a human life may be organized into a logical and coherent narrative. This process attempts to assist people in the recreation of their lives, as is the case with the various forms of counseling.\n\nThe theoretical structure of this approach emerges from the integration of field theory, phenomenology, and constructivism. In 1935, Kurt Lewin, a German Gestalt psychologist, articulated that human behavior is a product of personal and environmental factors and formulated the equation B=(PxE). Urie Bronfenbrenner expanded Lewin's work in 1979 into Ecological Systems Theory. Ecological Counseling posits that the person is inextricably situated within radically specific and interdependent ecological systems. Additionally, the individual carries particular capacities, limitations, temperaments, preferences, symbolic representation systems and personal historicity through the varying environmental settings in which the person lives. The interactions between the person and environment result in the construction of the individual ecological niches. These niches are what we experience as our world.\n\nEcological counseling seeks to understand people's ecological niches and assist them to live a satisfying life. This is accomplished by improving one's interactional quality, or concordance, through counseling intervention at both the personal and environmental levels.\n\nEcological Counseling has implications for clinical counseling practice, counselor training, group work, career counseling, social service delivery, research, social justice initiatives, community intervention, consultation, supervision, and human growth & development.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30631120", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30631120", "title": "Educational equity", "text": "Educational equity\n\nEducational equity, also referred to as equity in education, is a measure of achievement, fairness, and opportunity in education. The study of education equity is often linked with the study of excellence and equity.\n\nEducational equity depends on two main factors. The first is fairness, which implies that factors specific to one's personal conditions should not interfere with the potential of academic success. The second important factor is inclusion, which refers to a comprehensive standard that applies to everyone in a certain education system. These two factors are closely related and depend on each other for an educational system's success.\n\nThe growing importance of education equity is based on the premise that an individual’s level of education directly correlates to future quality of life. Therefore, an academic system that practices educational equity is a strong foundation of a society that is fair and thriving. However, inequity in education is challenging to avoid, and can be broken down into inequity due to socioeconomic standing, race, gender or disability. Educational equity is also based in the historical context of the location, people and structure. History shapes the outcome of individuals within the education system. \n\nOften, the terms \"equity\" and \"equality\" are interchanged when referring to educational equity. Although similar, there can be important distinctions between the two.\n\nEquity recognizes that some are at a larger disadvantage than others and aims at compensating for these peoples misfortunes and disabilities to ensure that everyone can attain the same type of healthy lifestyle. Examples of this are: “When libraries offer literacy programs, when schools offer courses in English as a second language, and when foundations target scholarships to students from poor families, they operationalize a belief in equity of access as fairness and as justice”. Equity recognizes this uneven playing field and aims to take extra measures by giving those who are in need more than others who are not. Equity aims at making sure that everyone's lifestyle is equal even if it may come at the cost of unequal distribution of access and goods. Social justice leaders in education strive to ensure equitable outcomes for their students.\n\nThe American Library Association defines equality as: “access to channels of communication and sources of information that is made available on even terms to all--a level playing field--is derived from the concept of fairness as uniform distribution, where everyone is entitled to the same level of access and can avail themselves if they so choose.” In this definition of equality no one person has an unfair advantage. Everyone is given equal opportunities and accessibility and are then free to do what they please with it. However, this is not to say that everyone is then inherently equal. Some people may choose to seize these open and equal opportunities while others let them pass by.\n\nIncome has always played an important role in shaping academic success. Those who come from a family of a higher socioeconomic status (SES) are privileged with more opportunities than those of lower SES. Those who come from a higher SES can afford things like better tutors, rigorous SAT/ACT prep classes, impressive summer programs, and so on. Parents generally feel more comfortable intervening on behalf of their children to acquire better grades or more qualified teachers (Levitsky). Parents of a higher SES are more willing to donate large sums of money to a certain institution to better improve their child's chances of acceptance, along with other extravagant measures. This creates an unfair advantage and distinct class barrier.\n\nThe extraordinarily high cost of the many prestigious high schools and universities in the United States makes an attempt at a \"level playing field\" for all students not so level. High-achieving low-income students do not have the means to attend selective schools that better prepare a student for later success. Because of this, low-income students do not even attempt to apply to the top-tier schools for which they are more than qualified. In addition, neighborhoods generally segregated by class leave lower-income students in lower-quality schools. For higher-quality schooling, students in low-income areas would have to take public transport which they can't pay for. Fewer than 30 percent of students in the bottom quarter of incomes even enroll in a four-year school and among that group, fewer than half graduate.\n\nAnother contributor to the inequality in the education system is tracking. Tracking sorts students into different classes or groups based on ability or future plans. The point of tracking is to create an environment in which the student's abilities match both the curriculum as well as the other student's in the class. This separation, however, creates an inequality within itself. Starting at an extremely young age, the sorting of students mimics a hierarchy similar to what may form later in life. Students are both viewed and treated differently depending on which track they take. The quality of teaching and curricula vary between tracks and as a result, those of the lower track are disadvantaged with inferior resources, teachers, etc. In many cases, tracking stunts students who may develop the ability to excel past their original placement.\n\nFrom a scientific point of view, the human species is a single species. Nevertheless, the term racial group is enshrined in legislation, and phrases such as race equality and race relations are in widespread official use. Racial equity in education means the assignment of students to public schools and within schools without regard to their race. This includes providing students with a full opportunity for participation in all educational programs regardless of their race.\n\nThe educational system and its response to racial concerns in education vary from country to country. Below are some examples of countries that have to deal with racial discrimination in education. \n\nThe struggle for equality of access to formal education and equality of excellent educational outcomes is part of the history of education in this country and is tied up with the economic, political, social history of the peoples who are part of it. From the beginning of this nation, there were many barriers to the schooling and education of girls and racial, national origin, and language groups not from the dominant culture. Approaches and resources for achieving equality and equity in the public schooling of girls and ethnic, racial, and language minority groups are still evolving.\n\n\nHigher education plays a vital role in preparing students for the employment market and active citizenship both nationally and internationally. By embedding race equality in teaching and learning, institutions can ensure that they acknowledge the experiences and values of all students, including minority ethnic and international students. Universities Scotland first published the Race Equality Toolkit: learning and teaching in 2006 in response to strong demand from the universities in Scotland for guidance on meeting their statutory obligations.\n\nGender equity in practicality refers to both male and female concerns, yet most of the gender bias is against women in the developing world. Gender discrimination in education has been very evident and underlying problem in many countries, especially in developing countries where cultural and societal stigma continue to hinder growth and prosperity for women. Global Campaign for Education (GCE) followed a survey called \"Gender Discrimination in Violation of Rights of Women and Girls\" states that one tenth of girls in primary school are 'unhappy' and this number increases to one fifth by the time they reach secondary schools. Some of the reasonings that girls provided include harassment, restorations to freedom, and an inherent lack of opportunities, compared to boys.\nUnited Nations Educational, Scientific and Cultural Organization (UNESCO) understands Education as a \" fundamental human right and essential for the exercise of all other human rights. It promotes individual freedom and empowerment and yields important development benefits.\"\n\nUN Special Rapporteur Katarina Tomasevki developed the '4A' framework on the Right to Education. The '4A' framework encompasses availability, accessibility, acceptability and adaptability as fundamental to the institution of education. And yet girls in many underdeveloped countries are denied secondary education. \nFigure on the right shows the discrepancies in secondary education in the world. Countries such as Sudan, Somalia, Thailand and Afghanistan face the highest of inequity when it comes to gender bias.\n\nGender-based inequity in education is not just a phenomenon in developing countries. A \"New York Times\" article highlights how education systems, especially public school systems, tend to segregate. Boys and girls are often taught with different approaches, which programs children to think they are different and deserve different treatment. However, studies show that boys and girls learn differently, and therefore should be taught differently. Boys learn better when they keep moving, while girls learn better sitting in one place with silence. Therefore—in this reasoning—segregating the genders \"promotes\" gender equity in education, as both boys and girls have optimized learning.\n\nVSO is a leading independent international development organization that works towards eliminating poverty and one of the problems they tackle is gender inequity in education. VSO published a paper that categorizes the obstacles (or causes) into:\n\nEducation is universally acknowledged as an essential human right because it highly impacts the socio-economic and cultural aspects of a country. Equity in education increases the work force of the nation, therefore increasing national income, economic productivity, and [gross domestic product]. It reduces fertility and infant mortality, improves child health, increases life expectancy and increases standards of living. These are factors that allow economic stability and growth in the future. Above all, female education can increase output levels and allow countries to attain sustainable development. Equity in education of women also reduces the possibilities of trafficking and exploitation of women. UNESCO also refers gender equity as a major factor that allows for sustainable development. https://www.economist.com/blogs/freeexchange/2013/11/gender-inequality is an article published by \"The Economist\", which says:\n\n\"Looking at recently-published UN statistics on gender inequality in education, one observes that the overall picture has improved dramatically over the last decade, but progress has not been even (see chart). Although the developing world on average looks likely to hit the UN’s gender-inequality target, many parts of Africa are lagging behind. While progress is being made in sub-Saharan Africa in primary education, gender inequality is in fact widening among older children. The ratio of girls enrolled in primary school rose from 85 to 93 per 100 boys between 1999 and 2010, whereas it fell from 83 to 82 and from 67 to 63 at the secondary and tertiary levels.\"\n\n\nProviding opportunities for students to consider racial equality as well as matters of racism as part of their study will help them to develop confidence to engage with these concepts as part of future practice, thinking, and life skills. Race, social class, and gender as issues related to schooling have received major attention from educators and social scientists over the last two decades.\n\nThe local authorities in England gave a survey report Race equality in education in November 2005. This report is based on visits by Her Majesty.s Inspectors (HMIs) and additional inspectors to 12 LEAs and 50 schools in England between summer term 2003 to spring term 2005. This report illustrates good practice on race equality in education in a sample of schools and local education authorities (LEAs) surveyed between the summer of 2003 and the spring of 2005. The survey focused on schools and LEAs that were involved effectively in race equality in education. Four areas were examined by inspectors: improving standards and achievement amongst groups of pupils, with reference to the Race Relations (Amendment) Act 2000 (RRAA); the incorporation of race equality concepts into the curriculum in schools; the handling and reporting of race-related incidents in schools; the work of schools and LEAs in improving links with local minority ethnic communities.\n\nThe Association of Teachers and Lecturers (ATL) (ATL promotes and protects the interests of its members – teachers, lecturers, support staff and other education professionals) introduced a practical resource for the school workforce Race equality and education in the UK educational system. The publication sets out to examine the racial, religious or cultural terminology regularly used in today's society, in an attempt to combat prejudice based on colour, ethnicity, religion or culture.\n\nAt this decisive moment, the Commission on Equity and Excellence in Education issues this seminal report. It is not a restatement of public education's struggles, nor is it a mere list of recommendations. Rather, this is a declaration of an urgent national mission: to provide equity and excellence in education in American public schools once and for all. This collective wisdom is a historic blueprint for making the dream of equity, and a world-class education, for each and every American child a reality. Carol D. Lee described the rationale for a special theme issue, \"Reconceptualizing Race and Ethnicity in Educational Research.\" The rationale includes the historical and contemporary ways that cultural differences have been positioned in educational research and the need for more nuanced and complex analyses of ethnicity and race.\n\nA major task of South Africa’s new government in 1994 was to promote racial equity in the state education system. This paper evaluates progress towards this goal using three distinct concepts: equal treatment, equal educational opportunity, and educational adequacy. The authors find that the country has succeeded in establishing racial equity defined as equal treatment, primarily through race-blind policies for allocating state funds for schools. Progress measured by the other two criteria, however, has been constrained by the legacy of apartheid, including poor facilities and lack of human capacity in schools serving black students, and by policies such as school fees.\n\nEducation literature tends to treat race, social class, and gender as separate issues. A review of a sample of education literature from four academic journals, spanning ten years, sought to determine how much these status groups were integrated. The study found little integration. The study then provided a research example on cooperative learning to illustrate how attention to only one status group oversimplifies the analysis of student behavior in school. From findings of studies integrating race and class, and race and gender, the study argues that attending only to race, in this example, oversimplifies behavior analysis and may help perpetuate gender and class biases. To determine to what extent race, social class, and gender are integrated in the education literature, the study examined a sample of literature published over a ten-year period and 30 articles focused primarily on race, or on school issues related directly to race, such as desegregation.\n\nThe report is by the OECD Education Directorate with support from the Asia Society as a background report for the first Asia Society Global Cities Network Symposium, Hong Kong, May 10–12, 2012. Asia Society is grateful for OECD's leadership in international benchmarking and for our ongoing partnership. Asia Society organized the Global Cities Education Network, a network of urban school systems in North America and Asia to focus on challenges and opportunities for improvement common to them, and to virtually all city education systems. This report presents the key recommendations of the OECD publication Equity and Quality in Education: Supporting Disadvantaged Students and Schools (2012a), which maps out policy levers that can help build high quality and equitable education systems, with a particular focus on North American and Asia-Pacific countries.\n\nThe long-term social and economic consequences of having little education are more tangible now than ever before. Those without the skills to participate socially and economically in society generate higher costs of healthcare, income support, child welfare and social security.\n\nWhile both basic education and higher education have both been improved and expanded in the past 50 years, this has not translated to a more equal society in terms of academics. While the feminist movement has made great strides for women, other groups have not been as fortunate. Generally, social mobility has not increased, while economic inequality has. So, while more students are getting a basic education and even attending universities, a dramatic divide is present and many people are still being left behind.\n\nAs increased immigration causes problems in educational equity for some countries, poor social cohesion in other countries is also a major issue. In countries where continued migration causes an issue, the ever-changing social structure of different races makes it difficult to propose a long-term solution to educational equity. On the other hand, many countries with consistent levels of diversity experience long-standing issues of integrating minorities. Challenges for minorities and migrants are often exacerbated as these groups statistically struggle more in terms of both lower academic performance and lower socio-economic status.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58045422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58045422", "title": "Eugénie Droz", "text": "Eugénie Droz\n\nEugénie Droz (born Eugénie Zahn 21 March 1893 – 19 September 1976) was a Swiss romance scholar, and writer, originally from the Suisse Romande. She created the , a publisher and seller of academic books, at Paris in 1924, moving the business to Geneva at the end of the war.\n\nLaure Eugénie Zahn was born at La Chaux-de-Fonds in the francophone northwest of Switzerland. Her father, Frédéric Zahn, was a well known member of the business community in the town, where he worked as an editor. In 1900 the family relocated to nearby Neuchâtel. Here she completed her secondary education and obtained a teaching diploma. Between 1910 and 1913 she taught French at the Moravian Institute of in Silesia, taking the opportunity at the same time to perfect her German. Returning to Neuchâtel in 1913, she was admitted to the Université de Neuchâtel where during the next three years she studied successfully for her degree. She was a pupil of Arthur Piaget, who also became a good friend. He encouraged her to study the history of ancient poetry and renaissance literature. It is apparent that the second volume of Piaget's work \"Jardin de Plaisance et Fleur de rhétorique, d'Antoine Vérard (vers 1501)\", which was published only in 1925, subtitled \"Introduction and notes\" and signed off by E.Droz and Arthur Piaget, was largely the work of Piaget's erudite pupil. The compilation of 672 verses, ballads, sounds, rondeaux etc., many of them anonymous, was described in an obituary of Eugénie Droz as an \"inestimable contribution to mid-century French literature\" (\"contribution inestimable aux lettres françaises du milieu du siècle\").\n\nIn 1916 her parents divorced. Three years later she sought and received permission to use her mother's pre-marriage name in place of her father's name. Eugénie Zahn became Eugénie Droz. Sources covering this period may identify her under either name.\n\nShe moved to Paris in 1916 and enrolled, at this stage as Eugénie Zahn, at the prestigious École pratique des hautes études (Section IV - Sciences historiques et philologiques (\"loosely, History and Philology\"). Her teachers included Alfred Jeanroy, Abel Lefranc and . She received exceptionally positive reports from the outset and completed her degree in 1923. In 1924 she opened the , initially at , moving within a year to , both addresses located appropriately in the 6th arrondissement of Paris. Her business was in essence a specialist bookshop and publisher. The core product would be her own academic output as an editor-publisher with a particular interest in sixteenth century texts and the history and social impact of books through history more generally. The business continues to focus on medieval and humanist titles and on literary criticism and art history. \n\nShe described the Paris premises proudly in her first catalogue: \"Accommodated in the House of the Bronze Horse, given by Francis I to [the renaissance poet] in 1539, the 'Librairie Droz' [book business] has been established by Eugénie Droz, graduate of the École pratique des hautes études and Doctor of Letters (\"Installée dans la maison du Cheval d'airain, donnée par François Ier a Clément Marot en 1539, la librairie Droz a été fondée par Eugénie Droz, élève diplômée de l'École des Hautes Études et docteur des lettres.\"). Her doctorate came from the Université de Neuchâtel. Her work for it consisted of 35 ancient texts accompanied by translations into contemporary French, a piece of work currently conserved in the rare books collection of the National Library of France.\n\nDespite the having been established in Paris, the printed device appearing as a form of trade mark on publications acknowledged the Swiss provenance of the proprietress. She copied the design used by Jean de Stalle who operated a printing house in Geneva between 1487 and 1493. The only change involved removing the initials \"IdeS\", incorporated in the centre of the device, and replacing them with her own initials, \"ED\". \n\nShortly after opening the Librairie Droz, still aged only 32, she found time to take on a position as assistant treasurer of the Société des anciens textes français, a learned society founded in Paris in 1875 with the purpose of publishing all kinds of medieval documents written either in langue d'oïl or langue d'oc. (The society's treasurer was Baron Edmond de Rothschild.)\n\nIn 1934 she founded \"Humanisme et Renaissance\", an academic journal which in effect replaced \"Revue du seizième siècle\". Most prominent among the many erudite collaborators on it were her old tutor, Abel Lefranc and Robert Marichal. She also created the \"Humanisme et Renaissance\". During the occupation she changed the name of the (much diminished) review, which became the \"Bibliothèque d'humanisme et Renaissance\".\n\nIn 1945, while still based in Paris, she created the series \"Textes littéraires français\". This was an early series of paperback books, with the focus as before on her own areas of academic expertise. In 1950, by which time she had moved to Geneva, she launched the series \"les Travaux d'Humanisme et Renaissance\" which became and remains an important body of reference for renaissance scholarship. \n\nOn November 1944 she found herself mandated by the Provisional Government to study the files of political deportees at Geneva. The later 1940s were a period of acute austerity and political uncertainty in France. It was probably around this time that she decided to relocate permanently from Paris to Geneva. She sold the premises at in 1947 and moved the business permanently to 8 rue Verdaine in Geneva. In 1963, the year of her seventieth birthday, she sold the business, which passed to the control of Alain Dufour and Giovanni Busino, two young historians with complementary skills whom she had personally selected.\n\n"}
{"id": "161255", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=161255", "title": "Finance capitalism", "text": "Finance capitalism\n\nFinance capitalism or financial capitalism is the subordination of processes of production to the accumulation of money profits in a financial system.\n\nFinancial capitalism is thus a form of capitalism where the intermediation of saving to investment becomes a dominant function in the economy, with wider implications for the political process and social evolution. Since the late 20th century it has become the predominant force in the global economy, whether in neoliberal or other form.\n\nFinance capitalism is characterized by a predominance of the pursuit of profit from the purchase and sale of, or investment in, currencies and financial products such as bonds, stocks, futures and other derivatives. It also includes the lending of money at interest; and is seen by Marxist analysts (from whom the term finance capitalism originally derived) as being exploitative by supplying income to non-laborers. Academic defenders of the economic concept of capitalism, such as Eugen von Böhm-Bawerk, see such profits as part of the roundabout process by which it grows and hedges against inevitable risks.\n\nIn financial capitalism, financial intermediaries become large concerns, ranging from banks to investment firms. Where deposit banks attract savings and lend out money, while investment banks obtain funds on the interbank market to re-lend for investment purposes, investment firms, by comparison, act on behalf of other concerns, by selling their equities or securities to investors, for investment purposes.\n\nThe meaning of the term financial capitalism goes beyond the importance of financial intermediation in the modern capitalist economy. It also encompasses the significant influence of the wealth holders on the political process and the aims of economic policy.\n\nThomas Palley has argued that the 21st century predominance of finance capital has led to a preference for speculation—Casino Capitalism—over investment for entrepreneurial growth in the global economy.\n\nRudolf Hilferding is credited with first bringing the term finance capitalism into prominence, with his (1910) study of the links between German trusts, banks, and monopolies before World War I—a study subsumed by Lenin into his wartime analysis of the imperialist relations of the great world powers. Lenin concluded of the banks at that time that they were “the chief nerve centres of the whole capitalist system of national economy”: for the Comintern, the phrase \"dictatorship of finance capitalism\" became a regular one.\n\nIn such a traditional Marxist perspective, finance capitalism is seen as a dialectical outgrowth of industrial capitalism, and part of the process by which the whole capitalist phase of history comes to an end. In a fashion similar to the views of Thorstein Veblen, finance capitalism is contrasted with industrial capitalism, where profit is made from the manufacture of goods.\n\nFernand Braudel would later point to two earlier periods when finance capitalism had emerged in human history—with the Genoese in the 16th century and the Dutch in the 17th and 18th centuries—although at those points it was from commercial capitalism that it developed. Giovanni Arrighi extended Braudel's analysis to suggest that a predominance of finance capitalism is a recurring, long-term phenomenon, whenever a previous phase of commercial/industrial capitalist expansion reaches a plateau.\n\nWhereas by mid-century the industrial corporation had displaced the banking system as the prime economic symbol of success, the late twentieth-century growth of derivatives and of a novel banking model ushered in a new (and historically fourth) period of finance capitalism.\n\nFredric Jameson has seen the globalised abstractions of this current phase of financial capitalism as underpinning the cultural manifestations of postmodernism.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21756513", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21756513", "title": "Fouad Makhzoumi", "text": "Fouad Makhzoumi\n\nFouad Makhzoumi (born 1952) is a Lebanese billionaire businessman and politician, founder of the National Dialogue Party. In the 2018 Lebanese elections, Makhzoumi was elected Member of Parliament (Beirut MP).\n\nFouad Makhzoumi was born in Beirut, Lebanon in 1952. He has bachelor's and master's degrees in chemical engineering from Michigan Technological University. \n\nIn 1984, Makhzoumi co-founded Future Pipe Industries, and was CEO from 1986 to 2003, when his son, Rami Makhzoumi, took over as CEO, with Makhzoumi as chairman until 2011, when he resumed the CEO role.\n\nIn the 1980s, Makhzoumi recruited the \"disgraced Conservative politician\" Jonathan Aitken as a board director of one of his companies, Aitken failed to declare this, and as the government minister in charge of arms sales, promoted a military equipment deal involving Makhzoumi in the 1990s, all of which played a part in Aitken's being jailed for libel in 1999.\n\nIn 2010, the British Conservative Party received a donation of £300,000 from his wife, May Makhzoumi. In 2013, it was reported that May Makhzoumi had given the Conservative Party another £500,000 earlier that year, bringing her total donations since 2010 to over £1 million.\n\nIn 2017, it was reported by \"The Guardian\" that François Fillon, the French presidential candidate had allegedly been paid $50,000 to arrange a meeting between Makhzoumi, the Russian President Vladimir Putin, and Patrick Pouyane, the chief executive of the French energy multinational Total.\n\nMakhzoumi and his wife May have three children, Rami (died 2011, brain aneurysm), Tamara, and Camellia.\n\nMay Makhzoumi lives in Kensington, London.\n"}
{"id": "27046384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27046384", "title": "Friends for Sale", "text": "Friends for Sale\n\nFriends for Sale was a massively multiplayer online business simulation game originally developed by Serious Business, available as an application on the social networking website Facebook. The game allowed players to buy and sell virtual pets representing other players. Since its launching by November 2007, \"Friends for Sale\" soared into popularity by June 2008, becoming one of the top ten Facebook applications with around 700,000 daily users and activity peaked at around 6.5 million monthly users on 2 November 2009 until Zynga acquired Serious Business on 11 February 2010.\n\nPlayers begin the game receiving some amount of virtual currency, as well as the in-game value of the pet that represents them. A list of the player's Facebook friends appears, along with their selling price. They could be bought; given nicknames and gifts; put to work with, locked from, sold to and used to poke other players.\n"}
{"id": "38689626", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38689626", "title": "George Aratani", "text": "George Aratani\n\nBorn in a small farming community outside Gardena, he was the only child of Japanese immigrants Setsuo and Yoshiko Aratani (although his mother had two children from a previous marriage). The family later moved to the San Fernando Valley, and again to Guadalupe, where Aratani attended school while his father established several highly successful farming, manufacturing and international trade companies. While in high school, Aratani was scouted by the Pittsburgh Pirates and briefly considered a career as a professional athlete, but had to change his plans after a football injury soured his prospects.\n\nAfter graduating from high school, Aratani relocated to Tokyo, following his parents' wishes that he pursue a college education in their home country of Japan. Living with his grandmother in Japan, he spent ten months studying the language before enrolling at Keio University. In December 1935, his mother, who was also staying in Japan at the time, became ill and died. His father remarried Yoshiko's niece, Masuko, and returned to the United States to manage his businesses. Aratani remained in Tokyo and continued his studies at Keio's law school, but he came back to Guadalupe when his father contracted tuberculosis in 1940. Unable to finish his degree at Keio, he enrolled at Stanford University, but after Setsuo's death in April, Aratani, then 22, dropped out to help his stepmother run the Guadalupe Produce Company.\n\nIn the wake of the attack on Pearl Harbor, and the tide of anti-Japanese sentiment that followed it, Aratani transferred the company's assets from its Issei leaders to its Nisei executives, hoping to avoid losing the business. The move only postponed what would soon prove to be inevitable; after learning he and his stepmother would be \"evacuated\" with 120,000 other Japanese Americans, Aratani was forced to leave the Guadalupe Produce Company in the hands of trustees from a separate business.\n\nUnder the directive of Executive Order 9066, Aratani was removed to the Tulare Assembly Center before being transferred to the War Relocation Authority camp at Gila River, Arizona. Shortly after arriving in camp, the office of the Superintendent of Banks, which had taken over the frozen assets of Japanese banks operating in the U.S. before the war, began to pursue Aratani in order to collect on a loan issued to his father by Sumitomo Bank. With little access to alternatives from within camp, Aratani and the Guadalupe board sold the company to the trustees, barely covering the taxes due to the government. Aratani's biography, \"An American Son: The Story of George Aratani,\" details the losses his family endured during the 1940s.\n\nSince Aratani was bilingual, he was allowed to leave the camp in 1944 to serve at the Military Intelligence Service Language School, where he taught Japanese to American soldiers, including many Nisei. Before arriving at the Camp Savage school, he married Sakaye Inouye, who had been interned at the nearby Poston camp. The couple would have two daughters, Donna and Linda.\n\nAfter the war, the Aratanis returned to California, settling in Hollywood. Aratani established an international trading company in 1946, working with former Guadalupe Produce Company employees and using the name of one of his father's prewar businesses, All Star Trading. The company changed its name to American Commercial, Inc., and tried importing various products before finding a profitable market in Japanese-made chinaware. The Mikasa brand was founded in December 1957 and quickly became popular in the United States, eventually going public in 1994. Aratani continued to expand, creating a medical equipment exporting business in 1951 and establishing Kenwood Electronics in 1961, again employing friends from Guadalupe or the Military Intelligence Service.\n\nMuch of Aratani's philanthropy focused on the Japanese American community. He helped found the Keiro Nursing Home in 1961, putting his home up for collateral on the initial loan. Under his guidance and through his contributions, Aratani helped with the restoration of numerous historical buildings in Los Angeles' Little Tokyo and was key to the creation of its Japanese American Cultural and Community Center. The JACCC's Aratani Japan America Theatre, the Japanese American National Museum's George and Sakaye Aratani Central Hall, and the Union Center for the Arts' Aratani Courtyard (all located within Little Tokyo) are named after Aratani and his wife. In 2004, at UCLA, he and Sakaye endowed the United States' first academic chair to study the World War II incarceration of Japanese Americans and their efforts to gain redress.\n\nAratani spent his later years in the couple's Hollywood Hills home (built by Sakaye's brother-in-law in 1958). He died February 19, 2013, at age 95.\n\n"}
{"id": "19780653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19780653", "title": "Hansjörg Wyss", "text": "Hansjörg Wyss\n\nHansjörg Wyss (born 19 September 1935) is a Swiss entrepreneur, businessman, and philanthropist. He is the founder and was president, then chairman, of Synthes USA, until its sale in 2012. Wyss lives in Wyoming and has supported philanthropic causes relating to environmental protection, social justice, and science. His contributions led to the establishment of the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University in 2009 and he created the Wyss Foundation, which aims to conserve natural environments, including public lands in the Western United States, Africa, and South America. As of 2017, Wyss has a net worth of US$5.6 billion, according to \"Forbes\".\n\nWyss was born in Bern, Switzerland in 1935. His father sold mechanical calculators and his mother was a homemaker. He was raised in an apartment with two sisters. After receiving a master's degree in Civil and Structural Engineering from the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich in 1959, Wyss earned an MBA from Harvard Business School in 1965. Following that, he worked in various positions in the textile industry, including plant engineer and project manager for Chrysler in Pakistan, Turkey, and the Philippines.\n\nWyss also worked in the steel industry in Brussels, Belgium. During his time working in that industry, Wyss ran a side business selling airplanes. Through one sale, he met a surgeon who had co-founded Swiss medical device manufacturer Synthes. After that meeting, Wyss spent two years learning about the medical device industry. He founded and became president of Synthes USA in 1977.\n\nIn 1977, Wyss founded and became president of Synthes USA, the U.S. division of Switzerland-based Synthes medical device manufacturer making internal screws and plates for broken bones. In an early initiative, Wyss opened a Synthes USA manufacturing plant in Colorado. Prior to that, another Switzerland company manufactured Synthes' devices and exported them to the U.S. Under Wyss' control, the U.S. division expanded its sales team and trained surgeons how to use its products. Wyss served as Synthes' worldwide CEO and chairman until his resignation as CEO in 2007. He maintained his post as company chairman until Johnson & Johnson acquired Synthes in 2012. During his tenure, Wyss said discussions of new products made up one-third of board meetings. A manager assigned to the Norian project testified before a grand jury that \"for somebody who is at his level and his level of success, I would say he [Wyss] has a surprising amount of contact with what's going on.\" Staff recalled meetings in which he intensively probed their projects.\n\nIn 2009, top executives at Synthes were indicted by U.S. Attorneys for Eastern Pennsylvania for using an untested calcium-phosphate-based bone cement on human patients without the authorization from the Food and Drug Administration, which resulted in the deaths of three people. Wyss was not indicted but four of Synthes' top executives were convicted and sentenced to prison terms.\n\nIn 2012 Wyss sold the company for $21.3 billion in cash and stock to Johnson & Johnson.\n\nAccording to \"Forbes\", Wyss is \"among the most philanthropic people in the world\". Between 2004 and 2008, \"Businessweek\" estimated that Wyss personally donated nearly USD$277 million. His giving has increased since the sale of Synthes in 2012 and in 2013 he signed The Giving Pledge, agreeing to give away the majority of his fortune. The assets of his charitable foundations equal nearly $2 billion.\n\nHis primary philanthropic causes are the environment, social justice, and science, but he frequently contributes to historic projects and European museums. The Wyss Foundation, a charitable organization he founded, has awarded grants for environmental protection as well as to progressive policy organizations, including the Center for Budget and Policy Priorities, Health Leads, and the Constitutional Accountability Center.\n\nAs of 2017, Wyss and the Wyss Foundation have donated more than $350 million to environmental protection, including conservation of national forests and other public lands in the Western United States.\n\nIn October 2018 Wyss published an article in the New York Times stating that he was contributing 1 billion dollars to environmental causes.\n\nWyss has stated that he became passionate about the American West and land preservation after visiting the U.S. in 1958 as a student and taking a summer job as a surveyor with the Colorado Highway Department. In 1998, he created the Wyss Foundation to establish and sponsor informal partnerships between non-governmental organizations and the United States government to place large swathes of land under permanent protection in the American West. By 2006, via the initial efforts of the foundation, almost of public land had been labeled as national monuments and national conservation areas. The organization also sponsors The Wyss Scholars Program for graduate-level education in conservation.\n\nThe Wyss Foundation's landscape protection strategies have included assisting the purchase of mineral leases from oil and gas companies. Other causes the Wyss Foundation supports includes river restorations, ocean conservation in Peru and Canada, anti-poaching efforts in Africa, and environmental journalism. In 2017, the organization announced a charitable commitment of $65 million to African Parks, a conservation NGO overseeing ten parks in seven African nations, to help create new protected areas in Africa.\n\nIn 2010, Wyss personally gave The Nature Conservancy $35 million to purchase 310,000 acres in Montana as part of one of the largest private conservation purchases in the United States. He donated $4.25 million to The Trust for Public Land in 2013 for the purchase of oil and gas leases in Wyoming to prevent development in the Hoback Basin. In 2016, Wyss made another donation to the Trust for Public Land that resulted in the expansion of Saguaro National Park in Arizona by 300 acres, including a mile and a half of Rincon Creek.\n\nWyss is involved with The Wilderness Society, Rails-to-Trails, and serves on the boards of the Southern Utah Wilderness Alliance, Center for American Progress, and the Grand Canyon Trust. In 2011, Wyss won the Robert Marshall Award from The Wilderness Society for his conservation work.\n\nIn January 2015, a conservative U.S. news site \"The Daily Caller\" accused John Podesta, who was at the time an advisor on environmental issues to the Obama administration, of an ethics violation for pushing the advocacy agenda of a former employer, because he had previously received $87,000 as a consulting fee for work he did for Wyss' HJW Foundation in 2013 (that organization was later merged with the Wyss Foundation). It was noted that the Wyss Foundation had previously donated $4 million to the Center for American Progress (CAP), which Podesta founded. According to the \"High Country News\", \"nothing ever came of the accusations\".\n\nIn 2007, he received the Harvard Business School Alumni Achievement Award, and in fall 2008, it was announced that Wyss donated the largest single endowment from one source in Harvard's history when he gave $125 million to found a multidisciplinary institute, the Wyss Institute for Biologically Inspired Engineering at Harvard University.\n\nIn 2012-13, he announced the creation of the Campus Biotech and of its Wyss Center for Bio- and Neuro-engineering in Geneva, Switzerland. In 2014, Wyss donated $120 million to the Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Zurich and the University of Zurich for the new Wyss Translational Center Zurich.\n\nIn 2015, Wyss publicly declared himself to be in favour of higher inheritance taxes (estate/death duty taxes) for the wealthy in Switzerland.\n\nThere has been a long-lasting rivalry between billionaire Wyss, who supports left-wing politics, and billionaire conservative Christoph Blocher. Both entered into public debates about the bilateral contracts between Switzerland and the European Union as well as the limitation of immigrants into Switzerland. Wyss, on the one hand, attempted to outline and foster the advantages of openness towards the EU and immigrants while Blocher, on the other hand, sought to highlight and emphasize the independence of Switzerland in those matters.\n\nWyss is an active hiker, skier and backpacker. He is also a hobby pilot. He lives in Wyoming, where he is involved in outdoor education programs and funds local efforts to conserve wildlife habitat and public lands in the Rocky Mountains. In 2000, Wyss purchased the Halter Ranch & Vineyard in western Paso Robles, California. The ranch includes an 1,800 acre wildlife preserve and a 281-acre vineyard producing 13 varietals using methods that are \"Sustainability in Practice\" certified. The ranch hosts tours and was named \"Best Vineyard Experience\" by \"Sunset Magazine\" in 2015.\n\nAs of 2017, Wyss ranks 281 on the \"Forbes\" list of billionaires, with an estimated net worth of approximately $5.5 billion. He ranks number 235 on the \"Bloomberg\" list of billionaires.\n\nWyss' daughter Amy also lives in Wyoming.\n\n"}
{"id": "13371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13371", "title": "Henry Ford", "text": "Henry Ford\n\nHenry Ford (July 30, 1863 – April 7, 1947) was an American captain of industry and a business magnate, the founder of the Ford Motor Company, and the sponsor of the development of the assembly line technique of mass production.\n\nAlthough Ford did not invent the automobile or the assembly line, he developed and manufactured the first automobile that many middle-class Americans could afford. In doing so, Ford converted the automobile from an expensive curiosity into a practical conveyance that would profoundly impact the landscape of the 20th century. His introduction of the Model T automobile revolutionized transportation and American industry. As the owner of the Ford Motor Company, he became one of the richest and best-known people in the world. He is credited with \"Fordism\": mass production of inexpensive goods coupled with high wages for workers. Ford had a global vision, with consumerism as the key to peace. His intense commitment to systematically lowering costs resulted in many technical and business innovations, including a franchise system that put dealerships throughout most of North America and in major cities on six continents. Ford left most of his vast wealth to the Ford Foundation and arranged for his family to control the company permanently.\n\nFord was also widely known for his pacifism during the first years of World War I, and for promoting antisemitic content, including \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" through his newspaper \"The Dearborn Independent\" and the book \"The International Jew\", having an influence on the development of Nazism and Adolf Hitler.\n\nHenry Ford was born July 30, 1863, on a farm in Greenfield Township, Michigan. His father, William Ford (1826–1905), was born in County Cork, Ireland, to a family that was originally from Somerset, England. His mother, Mary Ford (née Litogot; 1839–1876), was born in Michigan as the youngest child of Belgian immigrants; her parents died when she was a child and she was adopted by neighbors, the O'Herns. Henry Ford's siblings were Margaret Ford (1867–1938); Jane Ford (c. 1868–1945); William Ford (1871–1917) and Robert Ford (1873–1934).\n\nHis father gave him a pocket watch in his early teens. At 15, Ford dismantled and reassembled the timepieces of friends and neighbors dozens of times, gaining the reputation of a watch repairman. At twenty, Ford walked four miles to their Episcopal church every Sunday.\n\nFord was devastated when his mother died in 1876. His father expected him to eventually take over the family farm, but he despised farm work. He later wrote, \"I never had any particular love for the farm—it was the mother on the farm I loved.\"\n\nIn 1879, Ford left home to work as an apprentice machinist in Detroit, first with James F. Flower & Bros., and later with the Detroit Dry Dock Co. In 1882, he returned to Dearborn to work on the family farm, where he became adept at operating the Westinghouse portable steam engine. He was later hired by Westinghouse to service their steam engines. During this period Ford also studied bookkeeping at Goldsmith, Bryant & Stratton Business College in Detroit.\n\nFord married Clara Jane Bryant (1866–1950) on April 11, 1888, and supported himself by farming and running a sawmill. They had one child: Edsel Ford (1893–1943).\n\nIn 1891, Ford became an engineer with the Edison Illuminating Company. After his promotion to Chief Engineer in 1893, he had enough time and money to devote attention to his personal experiments on gasoline engines. These experiments culminated in 1896 with the completion of a self-propelled vehicle which he named the Ford Quadricycle. He test-drove it on June 4. After various test drives, Ford brainstormed ways to improve the Quadricycle.\n\nAlso in 1896, Ford attended a meeting of Edison executives, where he was introduced to Thomas Edison. Edison approved of Ford's automobile experimentation. Encouraged by Edison, Ford designed and built a second vehicle, completing it in 1898. Backed by the capital of Detroit lumber baron William H. Murphy, Ford resigned from the Edison Company and founded the Detroit Automobile Company on August 5, 1899. However, the automobiles produced were of a lower quality and higher price than Ford wanted. Ultimately, the company was not successful and was dissolved in January 1901.\n\nWith the help of C. Harold Wills, Ford designed, built, and successfully raced a 26-horsepower automobile in October 1901. With this success, Murphy and other stockholders in the Detroit Automobile Company formed the Henry Ford Company on November 30, 1901, with Ford as chief engineer. In 1902, Murphy brought in Henry M. Leland as a consultant; Ford, in response, left the company bearing his name. With Ford gone, Murphy renamed the company the Cadillac Automobile Company.\n\nTeaming up with former racing cyclist Tom Cooper, Ford also produced the 80+ horsepower racer \"999\" which Barney Oldfield was to drive to victory in a race in October 1902. Ford received the backing of an old acquaintance, Alexander Y. Malcomson, a Detroit-area coal dealer. They formed a partnership, \"Ford & Malcomson, Ltd.\" to manufacture automobiles. Ford went to work designing an inexpensive automobile, and the duo leased a factory and contracted with a machine shop owned by John and Horace E. Dodge to supply over $160,000 in parts. Sales were slow, and a crisis arose when the Dodge brothers demanded payment for their first shipment.\n\nIn response, Malcomson brought in another group of investors and convinced the Dodge Brothers to accept a portion of the new company. Ford & Malcomson was reincorporated as the Ford Motor Company on June 16, 1903, with $28,000 capital. The original investors included Ford and Malcomson, the Dodge brothers, Malcomson's uncle John S. Gray, Malcolmson's secretary James Couzens, and two of Malcomson's lawyers, John W. Anderson and Horace Rackham. Ford then demonstrated a newly designed car on the ice of Lake St. Clair, driving in 39.4 seconds and setting a new land speed record at . Convinced by this success, the race driver Barney Oldfield, who named this new Ford model \"999\" in honor of the fastest locomotive of the day, took the car around the country, making the Ford brand known throughout the United States. Ford also was one of the early backers of the Indianapolis 500.\n\nThe Model T was introduced on October 1, 1908. It had the steering wheel on the left, which every other company soon copied. The entire engine and transmission were enclosed; the four cylinders were cast in a solid block; the suspension used two semi-elliptic springs. The car was very simple to drive, and easy and cheap to repair. It was so cheap at $825 in 1908 ($ today) (the price fell every year) that by the 1920s, a majority of American drivers had learned to drive on the Model T.\n\nFord created a huge publicity machine in Detroit to ensure every newspaper carried stories and ads about the new product. Ford's network of local dealers made the car ubiquitous in almost every city in North America. As independent dealers, the franchises grew rich and publicized not just the Ford but the concept of automobiling; local motor clubs sprang up to help new drivers and to encourage exploring the countryside. Ford was always eager to sell to farmers, who looked on the vehicle as a commercial device to help their business. Sales skyrocketed—several years posted 100% gains on the previous year. Always on the hunt for more efficiency and lower costs, in 1913 Ford introduced the moving assembly belts into his plants, which enabled an enormous increase in production. Although Ford is often credited with the idea, contemporary sources indicate that the concept and its development came from employees Clarence Avery, Peter E. Martin, Charles E. Sorensen, and C. Harold Wills. (See Ford Piquette Avenue Plant)\n\nSales passed 250,000 in 1914. By 1916, as the price dropped to $360 for the basic touring car, sales reached 472,000. (Using the consumer price index, this price was equivalent to $7,828.08 in 2015 dollars.)\n\nBy 1918, half of all cars in America were Model Ts. All new cars were black; as Ford wrote in his autobiography, \"Any customer can have a car painted any color that he wants so long as it is black\". Until the development of the assembly line, which mandated black because of its quicker drying time, Model Ts were available in other colors, including red. The design was fervently promoted and defended by Ford, and production continued as late as 1927; the final total production was 15,007,034. This record stood for the next 45 years. This record was achieved in 19 years from the introduction of the first Model T (1908).\n\nPresident Woodrow Wilson asked Ford to run as a Democrat for the United States Senate from Michigan in 1918. Although the nation was at war, Ford ran as a peace candidate and a strong supporter of the proposed League of Nations. Ford was defeated in a close election by the Republican candidate, Truman Newberry, a former United States Secretary of the Navy.\n\nHenry Ford turned the presidency of Ford Motor Company over to his son Edsel Ford in December 1918. Henry retained final decision authority and sometimes reversed the decisions of his son. Ford started another company, Henry Ford and Son, and made a show of taking himself and his best employees to the new company; the goal was to scare the remaining holdout stockholders of the Ford Motor Company to sell their stakes to him before they lost most of their value. (He was determined to have full control over strategic decisions.) The ruse worked, and Ford and Edsel purchased all remaining stock from the other investors, thus giving the family sole ownership of the company.\n\nBy the mid-1920s, sales of the Model T began to decline due to rising competition. Other auto makers offered payment plans through which consumers could buy their cars, which usually included more modern mechanical features and styling not available with the Model T. Despite urgings from Edsel, Henry refused to incorporate new features into the Model T or to form a customer credit plan.\n\nBy 1926, flagging sales of the Model T finally convinced Ford to make a new model. He pursued the project with a great deal of technical expertise in design of the engine, chassis, and other mechanical necessities, while leaving the body design to his son. Edsel also managed to prevail over his father's initial objections in the inclusion of a sliding-shift transmission.\n\nThe result was the successful Ford Model A, introduced in December 1927 and produced through 1931, with a total output of more than 4 million. Subsequently, the Ford company adopted an annual model change system similar to that recently pioneered by its competitor General Motors (and still in use by automakers today). Not until the 1930s did Ford overcome his objection to finance companies, and the Ford-owned Universal Credit Corporation became a major car-financing operation.\n\nFord did not believe in accountants; he amassed one of the world's largest fortunes without ever having his company audited under his administration.\n\nFord was a pioneer of \"welfare capitalism\", designed to improve the lot of his workers and especially to reduce the heavy turnover that had many departments hiring 300 men per year to fill 100 slots. Efficiency meant hiring and keeping the best workers.\n\nFord astonished the world in 1914 by offering a $5 per day wage ($ today), which more than doubled the rate of most of his workers. A Cleveland, Ohio, newspaper editorialized that the announcement \"shot like a blinding rocket through the dark clouds of the present industrial depression.\" The move proved extremely profitable; instead of constant turnover of employees, the best mechanics in Detroit flocked to Ford, bringing their human capital and expertise, raising productivity, and lowering training costs. Ford announced his $5-per-day program on January 5, 1914, raising the minimum daily pay from $2.34 to $5 for qualifying male workers.\n\nDetroit was already a high-wage city, but competitors were forced to raise wages or lose their best workers. Ford's policy proved, however, that paying people more would enable Ford workers to afford the cars they were producing and be good for the local economy. He viewed the increased wages as profit-sharing linked with rewarding those who were most productive and of good character. It may have been Couzens who convinced Ford to adopt the $5-day wage.\n\nReal profit-sharing was offered to employees who had worked at the company for six months or more, and, importantly, conducted their lives in a manner of which Ford's \"Social Department\" approved. They frowned on heavy drinking, gambling, and (what today are called) deadbeat dads. The Social Department used 50 investigators, plus support staff, to maintain employee standards; a large percentage of workers were able to qualify for this \"profit-sharing.\"\n\nFord's incursion into his employees' private lives was highly controversial, and he soon backed off from the most intrusive aspects. By the time he wrote his 1922 memoir, he spoke of the Social Department and of the private conditions for profit-sharing in the past tense, and admitted that \"paternalism has no place in industry. Welfare work that consists in prying into employees' private concerns is out of date. Men need counsel and men need help, often special help; and all this ought to be rendered for decency's sake. But the broad workable plan of investment and participation will do more to solidify industry and strengthen organization than will any social work on the outside. Without changing the principle we have changed the method of payment.\"\n\nIn addition to raising the wages of his workers, Ford also introduced a new, reduced workweek in 1926. The decision was made in 1922, when Ford and Crowther described it as six 8-hour days, giving a 48-hour week, but in 1926 it was announced as five 8-hour days, giving a 40-hour week. (Apparently the program started with Saturday being a workday and sometime later it was changed to a day off.) On May 1, 1926, the Ford Motor Company's factory workers switched to a five-day 40-hour workweek, with the company's office workers making the transition the following August.\n\nFord had made the decision to boost productivity, as workers were expected to put more effort into their work in exchange for more leisure time, and because he believed decent leisure time was good for business, since workers would actually have more time to purchase and consume more goods. However, altruistic concerns also played a role, with Ford explaining \"It is high time to rid ourselves of the notion that leisure for workmen is either 'lost time' or a class privilege.\"\n\nFord was adamantly against labor unions. He explained his views on unions in Chapter 18 of \"My Life and Work\". He thought they were too heavily influenced by some leaders who, despite their ostensible good motives, would end up doing more harm than good for workers. Most wanted to restrict productivity as a means to foster employment, but Ford saw this as self-defeating because, in his view, productivity was necessary for any economic prosperity to exist.\n\nHe believed that productivity gains that obviated certain jobs would nevertheless stimulate the larger economy and thus grow new jobs elsewhere, whether within the same corporation or in others. Ford also believed that union leaders had a perverse incentive to foment perpetual socio-economic crisis as a way to maintain their own power. Meanwhile, he believed that smart managers had an incentive to do right by their workers, because doing so would maximize their own profits. Ford did acknowledge, however, that many managers were basically too bad at managing to understand this fact. But Ford believed that eventually, if good managers such as he could fend off the attacks of misguided people from both left and right (i.e., both socialists and bad-manager reactionaries), the good managers would create a socio-economic system wherein neither bad management nor bad unions could find enough support to continue existing.\n\nTo forestall union activity, Ford promoted Harry Bennett, a former Navy boxer, to head the Service Department. Bennett employed various intimidation tactics to squash union organizing. The most famous incident, on May 26, 1937, involved Bennett's security men beating with clubs members of the United Automobile Workers, including Walter Reuther. While Bennett's men were beating the UAW representatives, the supervising police chief on the scene was Carl Brooks, an alumnus of Bennett's Service Department, and [Brooks] \"did not give orders to intervene.\" The following day photographs of the injured UAW members appeared in newspapers, later becoming known as The Battle of the Overpass.\n\nIn the late 1930s and early 1940s, Edsel—who was president of the company—thought Ford had to come to some sort of collective bargaining agreement with the unions because the violence, work disruptions, and bitter stalemates could not go on forever. But Ford, who still had the final veto in the company on a \"de facto\" basis even if not an official one, refused to cooperate. For several years, he kept Bennett in charge of talking to the unions that were trying to organize the Ford Motor Company. Sorensen's memoir makes clear that Ford's purpose in putting Bennett in charge was to make sure no agreements were ever reached.\n\nThe Ford Motor Company was the last Detroit automaker to recognize the UAW. A sit-down strike by the UAW union in April 1941 closed the River Rouge Plant. Sorensen recounted that a distraught Henry Ford was very close to following through with a threat to break up the company rather than cooperate, but his wife Clara told him she would leave him if he destroyed the family business. In her view, it would not be worth the chaos it would create. Ford complied with his wife's ultimatum, and even agreed with her in retrospect. Overnight, the Ford Motor Company went from the most stubborn holdout among automakers to the one with the most favorable UAW contract terms. The contract was signed in June 1941. About a year later, Ford told Walter Reuther, \"It was one of the most sensible things Harry Bennett ever did when he got the UAW into this plant.\" Reuther inquired, \"What do you mean?\" Ford replied, \"Well, you've been fighting General Motors and the Wall Street crowd. Now you're in here and we've given you a union shop and more than you got out of them. That puts you on our side, doesn't it? We can fight General Motors and Wall Street together, eh?\"\n\nFord, like other automobile companies, entered the aviation business during World War I, building Liberty engines. After the war, it returned to auto manufacturing until 1925, when Ford acquired the Stout Metal Airplane Company.\nFord's most successful aircraft was the Ford 4AT Trimotor, often called the \"Tin Goose\" because of its corrugated metal construction. It used a new alloy called Alclad that combined the corrosion resistance of aluminum with the strength of duralumin. The plane was similar to Fokker's V.VII-3m, and some say that Ford's engineers surreptitiously measured the Fokker plane and then copied it. The Trimotor first flew on June 11, 1926, and was the first successful U.S. passenger airliner, accommodating about 12 passengers in a rather uncomfortable fashion. Several variants were also used by the U.S. Army. Ford has been honored by the Smithsonian Institution for changing the aviation industry. 199 Trimotors were built before it was discontinued in 1933, when the Ford Airplane Division shut down because of poor sales during the Great Depression.\n\nFord opposed war, which he viewed as a terrible waste, and supported causes that opposed military intervention. Ford became highly critical of those who he felt financed war, and he tried to stop them. In 1915, the pacifist Rosika Schwimmer gained favor with Ford, who agreed to fund a Peace Ship to Europe, where World War I was raging. He and about 170 other prominent peace leaders traveled there. Ford's Episcopalian pastor, Reverend Samuel S. Marquis, accompanied him on the mission. Marquis headed Ford's Sociology Department from 1913 to 1921. Ford talked to President Wilson about the mission but had no government support. His group went to neutral Sweden and the Netherlands to meet with peace activists. A target of much ridicule, Ford left the ship as soon as it reached Sweden.\n\nFord plants in the United Kingdom produced tractors to increase the British food supply, as well as trucks and aircraft engines. When the U.S. entered the war in 1917 the company became a major supplier of weapons, especially the Liberty engine for airplanes, and anti-submarine boats.\n\nIn 1918, with the war on and the League of Nations a growing issue in global politics, President Woodrow Wilson, a Democrat, encouraged Ford to run for a Michigan seat in the U.S. Senate. Wilson believed that Ford could tip the scales in Congress in favor of Wilson's proposed League. \"You are the only man in Michigan who can be elected and help bring about the peace you so desire,\" the president wrote Ford. Ford wrote back: \"If they want to elect me let them do so, but I won't make a penny's investment.\" Ford did run, however, and came within 4,500 votes of winning, out of more than 400,000 cast statewide. Ford remained a staunch Wilsonian and supporter of the League. When Wilson made a major speaking tour in the summer of 1919 to promote the League, Ford helped fund the attendant publicity.\n\nFord had opposed America's entry into World War II and continued to believe that international business could generate the prosperity that would head off wars. Ford \"insisted that war was the product of greedy financiers who sought profit in human destruction\"; in 1939 he went so far as to claim that the torpedoing of U.S. merchant ships by German submarines was the result of conspiratorial activities undertaken by financier war-makers. The financiers to whom he was referring was Ford's code for Jews; he had also accused Jews of fomenting the First World War. In the run-up to World War II and when the war erupted in 1939, he reported that he did not want to trade with belligerents. Like many other businessmen of the Great Depression era, he never liked or entirely trusted the Franklin Roosevelt Administration, and thought Roosevelt was inching the U.S. closer to war. However, Ford continued to do business with Nazi Germany, including the manufacture of war materiel.\n\nBeginning in 1940, with the requisitioning of between 100 and 200 French POWs to work as slave laborers, \"Ford-Werke\" contravened Article 31 of the 1929 Geneva Convention. At that time, which was before the U.S. entered the war and still had full diplomatic relations with Nazi Germany, \"Ford-Werke\" was under the control of the Ford Motor Company. The number of slave laborers grew as the war expanded although Wallace makes it clear that companies in Germany were not required by the Nazi authorities to use slave laborers.\n\nWhen Rolls-Royce sought a U.S. manufacturer as an additional source for the Merlin engine (as fitted to Spitfire and Hurricane fighters), Ford first agreed to do so and then reneged. He \"lined up behind the war effort\" when the U.S. entered in late 1941. His support of the American war effort, however, was problematic.\n\nOnce the U.S. entered the war, Ford directed the Ford Motor Company to construct a vast new purpose-built factory at Willow Run near Detroit, Michigan. Ford broke ground on Willow Run in the spring of 1942, and the first B-24 came off the line in October 1942. At , it was the largest assembly line in the world at the time. At its peak in 1944, the Willow Run plant produced 650 B-24s per month, and by 1945 Ford was completing each B-24 in eighteen hours, with one rolling off the assembly line every 58 minutes. Ford produced 9,000 B-24s at Willow Run, half of the 18,000 total B-24s produced during the war.\n\nWhen Edsel Ford died prematurely in 1943, Henry Ford nominally resumed control of the company, but a series of strokes in the late 1930s had left him increasingly debilitated, and his mental ability was fading. Ford was increasingly sidelined, and others made decisions in his name. The company was in fact controlled by a handful of senior executives led by Charles Sorensen, an important engineer and production executive at Ford; and Harry Bennett, the chief of Ford's Service Unit, Ford's paramilitary force that spied on, and enforced discipline upon, Ford employees. Ford grew jealous of the publicity Sorensen received and forced Sorensen out in 1944. Ford's incompetence led to discussions in Washington about how to restore the company, whether by wartime government fiat, or by instigating some sort of coup among executives and directors. Nothing happened until 1945 when, with bankruptcy a serious risk, Edsel's widow led an ouster and installed her son, Henry Ford II, as president. The young man took full control, and forced out Harry Bennett in a purge of the old guard in 1947.\n\nIn the early 1920s, Ford sponsored a weekly newspaper that published strongly antisemitic views. At the same time, Ford had a reputation as one of the few major corporations actively hiring black workers, and was not accused of discrimination against Jewish workers or suppliers. He also hired women and handicapped men at a time when doing so was uncommon.\n\nIn 1918, Ford's closest aide and private secretary, Ernest G. Liebold, purchased an obscure weekly newspaper for Ford, \"The Dearborn Independent\". The \"Independent\" ran for eight years, from 1920 until 1927, with Liebold as editor. Every Ford franchise nationwide had to carry the paper and distribute it to its customers.\n\nDuring this period, Ford emerged as \"a respected spokesman for right-wing extremism and religious prejudice\", reaching around 700,000 readers through his newspaper. The 2010 documentary film \"\" (written by Pulitzer Prize winner Ira Berkow) states that Ford wrote on May 22, 1920: \"If fans wish to know the trouble with American baseball they have it in three words—too much Jew.\"\n\nIn Germany, Ford's antisemitic articles from \"The Dearborn Independent\" were issued in four volumes, cumulatively titled \"The International Jew, the World's Foremost Problem\" published by Theodor Fritsch, founder of several antisemitic parties and a member of the Reichstag. In a letter written in 1924, Heinrich Himmler described Ford as \"one of our most valuable, important, and witty fighters\". Ford is the only American mentioned favorably in \"Mein Kampf\", although he is only mentioned twice: Adolf Hitler wrote, \"only a single great man, Ford, [who], to [the Jews'] fury, still maintains full independence ... [from] the controlling masters of the producers in a nation of one hundred and twenty millions.\" Speaking in 1931 to a \"Detroit News\" reporter, Hitler said he regarded Ford as his \"inspiration\", explaining his reason for keeping Ford's life-size portrait next to his desk. Steven Watts wrote that Hitler \"revered\" Ford, proclaiming that \"I shall do my best to put his theories into practice in Germany\", and modeling the Volkswagen, the people's car, on the Model T. Max Wallace has stated \"History records that ... Adolf Hitler was an ardent Anti-Semite before he ever read Ford's \"The International Jew\".\" Under Ford, the newspaper also reprinted the antisemitic fabricated text \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\".\n\nOn February 1, 1924, Ford received Kurt Ludecke, a representative of Hitler, at home. Ludecke was introduced to Ford by Siegfried Wagner (son of the composer Richard Wagner) and his wife Winifred, both Nazi sympathizers and antisemites. Ludecke asked Ford for a contribution to the Nazi cause, but was apparently refused.\n\nWhile Ford's articles were denounced by the Anti-Defamation League (ADL), the articles explicitly condemned pogroms and violence against Jews, but blamed the Jews for provoking incidents of mass violence. None of this work was written by Ford, but he allowed his name to be used as author. According to trial testimony, he wrote almost nothing. Friends and business associates have said they warned Ford about the contents of the \"Independent\" and that he probably never read the articles (he claimed he only read the headlines). Court testimony in a libel suit, brought by one of the targets of the newspaper, alleged that Ford did know about the contents of the \"Independent\" in advance of publication.\n\nA libel lawsuit was brought by San Francisco lawyer and Jewish farm cooperative organizer Aaron Sapiro in response to the antisemitic remarks, and led Ford to close the \"Independent\" in December 1927. News reports at the time quoted him as saying he was shocked by the content and unaware of its nature. During the trial, the editor of Ford's \"Own Page\", William Cameron, testified that Ford had nothing to do with the editorials even though they were under his byline. Cameron testified at the libel trial that he never discussed the content of the pages or sent them to Ford for his approval. Investigative journalist Max Wallace noted that \"whatever credibility this absurd claim may have had was soon undermined when James M. Miller, a former \"Dearborn Independent\" employee, swore under oath that Ford had told him he intended to expose Sapiro.\"\n\nMichael Barkun observed:\n\nAccording to Spencer Blakeslee:\n\nWallace also found that Ford's apology was likely, at least partly, motivated by a business that was slumping as result of his antisemitism repelling potential buyers of Ford cars. Up until the apology, a considerable number of dealers, who had been required to make sure that buyers of Ford cars received the \"Independent\", bought up and destroyed copies of the newspaper rather than alienate customers.\n\nFord's 1927 apology was well received. \"Four-Fifths of the hundreds of letters addressed to Ford in July 1927 were from Jews, and almost without exception they praised the industrialist.\" In January 1937, a Ford statement to the \"Detroit Jewish Chronicle\" disavowed \"any connection whatsoever with the publication in Germany of a book known as the \"International Jew\".\"\n\nAccording to Pool and Pool (1978), Ford's retraction and apology (which were written by others) were not even truly signed by him (rather, his signature was forged by Harry Bennett), and Ford never privately recanted his antisemitic views, stating in 1940: \"I hope to republish \"The International Jew\" again some time.\"\n\nIn July 1938, before the outbreak of war, the German consul at Cleveland gave Ford, on his 75th birthday, the award of the Grand Cross of the German Eagle, the highest medal Nazi Germany could bestow on a foreigner. James D. Mooney, vice president of overseas operations for General Motors, received a similar medal, the Merit Cross of the German Eagle, First Class.\n\nOn January 7, 1942, Ford wrote a letter to Sigmund Livingston as the Founder and National Chairman of the Anti-Defamation League. The purpose of the letter was to clarify some general misconceptions that he subscribed or supported directly or indirectly, \"any agitation which would promote antagonism toward my Jewish fellow citizens.\" He concluded the letter with \"My sincere hope that now in this country and throughout the world when the war is finished, hatred of the Jews and hatred against any other racial or religious groups shall cease for all time.\"\n\nDistribution of \"The International Jew\" was halted in 1942 through legal action by Ford, despite complications from a lack of copyright. It is still banned in Germany. Extremist groups often recycle the material; it still appears on antisemitic and neo-Nazi websites.\n\nTestifying at Nuremberg, convicted Hitler Youth leader Baldur von Schirach who, in his role as military governor of Vienna, deported 65,000 Jews to camps in Poland, stated:\n\nRobert Lacey wrote in \"Ford: The Men and the Machines\" that a close Willow Run associate of Ford reported that when he was shown newsreel footage of the Nazi concentration camps, he \"was confronted with the atrocities which finally and unanswerably laid bare the bestiality of the prejudice to which he contributed, he collapsed with a stroke – his last and most serious.\" Ford had suffered previous strokes and his final cerebral hemorrhage occurred in 1947 at age 83.\n\nFord's philosophy was one of economic independence for the United States. His River Rouge Plant became the world's largest industrial complex, pursuing vertical integration to such an extent that it could produce its own steel. Ford's goal was to produce a vehicle from scratch without reliance on foreign trade. He believed in the global expansion of his company. He believed that international trade and cooperation led to international peace, and he used the assembly line process and production of the Model T to demonstrate it.\n\nHe opened Ford assembly plants in Britain and Canada in 1911, and soon became the biggest automotive producer in those countries. In 1912, Ford cooperated with Giovanni Agnelli of Fiat to launch the first Italian automotive assembly plants. The first plants in Germany were built in the 1920s with the encouragement of Herbert Hoover and the Commerce Department, which agreed with Ford's theory that international trade was essential to world peace. In the 1920s, Ford also opened plants in Australia, India, and France, and by 1929, he had successful dealerships on six continents. Ford experimented with a commercial rubber plantation in the Amazon jungle called Fordlândia; it was one of his few failures.\nIn 1929, Ford made an agreement with the Soviets to provide technical aid over nine years in building the first Soviet automobile plant (GAZ) near Nizhny Novgorod (Gorky). (an additional contract for construction of the plant was signed with The Austin Company on August 23, 1929). The contract involved the purchase of $30,000,000 worth of knocked-down Ford cars and trucks for assembly during the first four years of the plant's operation, after which the plant would gradually switch to Soviet-made components. Ford sent his engineers and technicians to the Soviet Union to help install the equipment and train the working force, while over a hundred Soviet engineers and technicians were stationed at Ford's plants in Detroit and Dearborn \"for the purpose of learning the methods and practice of manufacture and assembly in the Company's plants.\" Said Ford: \"No matter where industry prospers, whether in India or China, or Russia, the more profit there will be for everyone, including us. All the world is bound to catch some good from it.\"\n\nBy 1932, Ford was manufacturing one third of all the world's automobiles. It set up numerous subsidiaries that sold or assembled the Ford cars and trucks:\n\n\nFord's image transfixed Europeans, especially the Germans, arousing the \"fear of some, the infatuation of others, and the fascination among all\". Germans who discussed \"Fordism\" often believed that it represented something quintessentially American. They saw the size, tempo, standardization, and philosophy of production demonstrated at the Ford Works as a national service—an \"American thing\" that represented the culture of the United States. Both supporters and critics insisted that Fordism epitomized American capitalist development, and that the auto industry was the key to understanding economic and social relations in the United States. As one German explained, \"Automobiles have so completely changed the American's mode of life that today one can hardly imagine being without a car. It is difficult to remember what life was like before Mr. Ford began preaching his doctrine of salvation\". For many Germans, Ford embodied the essence of successful Americanism.\n\nIn \"My Life and Work\", Ford predicted that if greed, racism, and short-sightedness could be overcome, then economic and technological development throughout the world would progress to the point that international trade would no longer be based on (what today would be called) colonial or neocolonial models and would truly benefit all peoples. His ideas in this passage were vague, but they were idealistic.\n\nFord maintained an interest in auto racing from 1901 to 1913 and began his involvement in the sport as both a builder and a driver, later turning the wheel over to hired drivers. He entered stripped-down Model Ts in races, finishing first (although later disqualified) in an \"ocean-to-ocean\" (across the United States) race in 1909, and setting a one-mile (1.6 km) oval speed record at Detroit Fairgrounds in 1911 with driver Frank Kulick. In 1913, Ford attempted to enter a reworked Model T in the Indianapolis 500 but was told rules required the addition of another to the car before it could qualify. Ford dropped out of the race and soon thereafter dropped out of racing permanently, citing dissatisfaction with the sport's rules, demands on his time by the booming production of the Model Ts, and his low opinion of racing as a worthwhile activity.\n\nIn \"My Life and Work\" Ford speaks (briefly) of racing in a rather dismissive tone, as something that is not at all a good measure of automobiles in general. He describes himself as someone who raced only because in the 1890s through 1910s, one had to race because prevailing ignorance held that racing was the way to prove the worth of an automobile. Ford did not agree. But he was determined that as long as this was the definition of success (flawed though the definition was), then his cars would be the best that there were at racing. Throughout the book, he continually returns to ideals such as transportation, production efficiency, affordability, reliability, fuel efficiency, economic prosperity, and the automation of drudgery in farming and industry, but rarely mentions, and rather belittles, the idea of merely going fast from point A to point B.\n\nNevertheless, Ford did make quite an impact on auto racing during his racing years, and he was inducted into the Motorsports Hall of Fame of America in 1996.\n\nWhen Edsel Ford, President of Ford Motor Company, died of cancer in May 1943, the elderly and ailing Henry Ford decided to assume the presidency. By this point in his life, he had had several cardiovascular events (variously cited as heart attacks or strokes) and was mentally inconsistent, suspicious, and generally no longer fit for such immense responsibilities.\n\nMost of the directors did not want to see him as President. But for the previous 20 years, though he had long been without any official executive title, he had always had \"de facto\" control over the company; the board and the management had never seriously defied him, and this moment was not different. The directors elected him, and he served until the end of the war. During this period the company began to decline, losing more than $10 million a month ($ today). The administration of President Franklin Roosevelt had been considering a government takeover of the company in order to ensure continued war production, but the idea never progressed.\nHis health failing, Ford ceded the company Presidency to his grandson, Henry Ford II, in September 1945 and went into retirement. He died on April 7, 1947, of a cerebral hemorrhage at Fair Lane, his estate in Dearborn, at the age of 83. A public viewing was held at Greenfield Village where up to 5,000 people per hour filed past the casket. Funeral services were held in Detroit's Cathedral Church of St. Paul and he was buried in the Ford Cemetery in Detroit.\nA compendium of short biographies of famous Freemasons, published by a Freemason lodge, lists Ford as a member. The Grand Lodge of New York confirms that Ford was a Freemason, and was raised in Palestine Lodge No. 357, Detroit, in 1894. When he received the 33rd degree of the Scottish Rite in 1940, he said, \"Masonry is the best balance wheel the United States has.\"\n\nIn 1923, Ford's pastor, and head of his sociology department, Episcopal minister Samuel S. Marquis, claimed that Ford believed, or \"once believed,\" in reincarnation.\n\nFord published an anti-smoking book, circulated to youth in 1914, called \"The Case Against the Little White Slaver\", which documented many dangers of cigarette smoking attested to by many researchers and luminaries. At the time smoking was ubiquitous and was not yet widely associated with health detriment, so Ford's opposition to cigarettes was unusual.\n\nHenry Ford long had an interest in materials science and engineering. He enthusiastically described his company's adoption of vanadium steel alloys and subsequent metallurgic R&D work.\n\nFord long had an interest in plastics developed from agricultural products, especially soybeans. He cultivated a relationship with George Washington Carver for this purpose. Soybean-based plastics were used in Ford automobiles throughout the 1930s in plastic parts such as car horns, in paint, etc. This project culminated in 1942, when Ford patented an automobile made almost entirely of plastic, attached to a tubular welded frame. It weighed 30% less than a steel car and was said to be able to withstand blows ten times greater than could steel. Furthermore, it ran on grain alcohol (ethanol) instead of gasoline. The design never caught on.\n\nFord was interested in engineered woods (\"Better wood can be made than is grown\") (at this time plywood and particle board were little more than experimental ideas); corn as a fuel source, via both corn oil and ethanol; and the potential uses of cotton. Ford was instrumental in developing charcoal briquets, under the brand name \"Kingsford\". His brother in law, E.G. Kingsford, used wood scraps from the Ford factory to make the briquets.\n\nIn 1927 Ford partnered with Thomas Edison and Harvey Samuel Firestone (each contributing $25,000) to create the Edison Botanic Research Corp. in Fort Myers, Florida, to look for a native source of rubber.\n\nFord was a prolific inventor and was awarded 161 U.S. patents.\n\nFord had a vacation residence in Fort Myers, Florida next to that of Thomas Edison, which he bought in 1915 and used until approximately 1930. It is still in existence today and is open as a museum.\n\nHe also had a vacation home (known today as the \"Ford Plantation\") in Richmond Hill, Georgia which is still in existence today as a private community. Ford started buying land in this area and eventually owned 70,000 acres (110 square miles) there. In 1936, Ford broke ground for a beautiful Greek revival style mansion on the banks of the Ogeechee River on the site of a 1730s plantation. The grand house, made of Savannah-gray brick, had marble steps, air conditioning, and an elevator. It sat on 55 acres of manicured lawns and flowering gardens. The house became the center of social gatherings with visitations by the Vanderbilts, Rockefellers, and the DuPonts. It remains the centerpiece of The Ford Plantation today. Ford converted the 1870s-era rice mill into his personal research laboratory and powerhouse and constructed an underground tunnel from there to the new home, providing it with steam. He contributed substantially to the community, building a chapel and schoolhouse and employing numerous local residents.\n\nFord had an interest in \"Americana\". In the 1920s, Ford began work to turn Sudbury, Massachusetts, into a themed historical village. He moved the schoolhouse supposedly referred to in the nursery rhyme, \"Mary Had a Little Lamb\", from Sterling, Massachusetts, and purchased the historic Wayside Inn. This plan never saw fruition. Ford repeated the concept of collecting historic structures with the creation of Greenfield Village in Dearborn, Michigan. It may have inspired the creation of Old Sturbridge Village as well. About the same time, he began collecting materials for his museum, which had a theme of practical technology. It was opened in 1929 as the Edison Institute. Although greatly modernized, the museum continues today.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10749304", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10749304", "title": "IT interaction model", "text": "IT interaction model\n\nThe IT interaction model is a holistic view of Management Information Systems in the context of the organization. According to Mark S. Silver, the model addresses the interaction of an information system's features with five elements of the organization.\n\n\nThe model considers the consequences of this interaction for system use, for organizational performance, for the organization's personnel, and for the firm's future flexibility. Moreover, the model relates various aspects of the interaction process to the phases of the development and implementation lifecycles.\n\nTools such as Porter's five forces, value chain analysis and SWOT analysis can be used to analyze a company's strategy. Information flow diagrams can be used to analyze a company's business processes.\n"}
{"id": "16058582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16058582", "title": "Incorporated society", "text": "Incorporated society\n\nIn New Zealand an incorporated society is a group of at least 15 people who have applied for registration under the \"Incorporated Societies Act 1908\".\n\nOnce registered the Society constitutes a distinct legal entity which provides protection to members from debts, contracts etc. In return, members do not have a personal financial interest in the property or assets (if any) owned by the society.\n\nTo maintain registration, annual returns must be made to the Registrar of Incorporated Societies . At any stage the Society may be wound up by members' resolution, creditors or the Registrar (if compliance is not maintained).\n"}
{"id": "56237498", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56237498", "title": "Industries et Agro-Ressources", "text": "Industries et Agro-Ressources\n\nIndustries et Agro-Ressources (also called Pôle IAR) is a French business cluster created in 2005 and located in Hauts-de-France and Grand Est. Its main focus is Bioeconomy.\n\nSince December 2017, its C.E.O is Yvon Le Hénaff.\n\n"}
{"id": "23946473", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23946473", "title": "International Business School of Scandinavia", "text": "International Business School of Scandinavia\n\nInternational Business School of Scandinavia - IBSS is a business school.\nStarted in 2004 with focus on privately run MBA programs through Blended learning.\nPrograms run both in English as well as local languages around the world together with local partners.\n\nMBA in General Management\nMBA in Human Resource\nMBA in International Sales & Marketing\n\nThe programs are a mix of theory and practice based training.\n\nThrough the training method \"blended learning\" participants can have international seminars from anywhere in the world and training material is supplied both online and during the face2face training.\n\nIBSS history started in 2000, as a subsidiary with the aim to conduct educations and degree programs.\n\nIn 2004 the official school was established.\n\n2009 IBSS initiated international status with sub activities done online.\nFurthermore IBSS focus on international accreditation programs – which have not been of any need in Denmark but which are highly wanted internationally.\nIBSS collaborates with the a number of universities in countries such as Malaysia, UK, US, Bangladesh and Vietnam.\n\nA brief about IBSS cooperation internationally\nIBSS has distinguished history of relations with External educational organizations, institutions and Universities.\n\n2009~ IBSS started its international Activities (outside of Scandinavian countries). Currently IBSS is conducting funding a PHD study with Aalborg University on the effects of blended learning in developing countries.\n\nIBSS is running its own MBA programs but is also internationally conducting programs with universities in fields of diploma, BA and Doctorate programs.\n\nOne of IBSS major partners is Asia e University in Malaysia.\n\nAs of 2010 IBSS is conducting dual or single degrees in Bangladesh, Egypt, Malaysia and Vietnam.\n"}
{"id": "38754799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38754799", "title": "International Colour Day", "text": "International Colour Day\n\nAn international colour day (ICD) has been considered as appropriate since colour is, thanks to visual perception, one of the most influential phenomena in people’s lives and also one of the channels that contributes most greatly to the perception of reality. All around the world memorable colour activities are increasingly being developed during the International Colour Day.\n\nThe adoption of an international day of colour was proposed in 2008 by the Portuguese Color Association, whose president, Maria Joao Durao, presented the idea to the International Colour Association. The proposal was agreed in 2009 among the members of this society, which is composed of national associations and members representing more than 30 countries.\n\nThe choice of the date comprised a good deal of discussion. Among all suggestions, the idea exposed by Leonhard Oberascher (from Austria) prevailed: every year, March 21 is the “equinox” – aequus (equal) and nox (night). Around the equinox, the night and day are approximately equally long, symbolically relating to the complementary nature of light and darkness, light and shadow expressed in all human cultures.\n\nThere was an international competition for the design of the logo, and the winner was announced at the 2012 meeting of the International Colour Association, AIC 2012 held in Taipei, Taiwan. As expressed by designer Hosanna Yau, from Hong Kong, \"two circles form an eye, with an equal half of rainbow color and black representing light and darkness, day and night, everyone feast one's eye on the international color day.\"\n\nSome of the activities and events that are unfolded on the International Colour Day: \n\n\n Pakistan\n"}
{"id": "52669558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52669558", "title": "Ippolito Niccolini", "text": "Ippolito Niccolini\n\nIppolito Niccolini (3 January 1848 – 8 January 1919) was an Italian businessman and politician. He was the 10th mayor of Florence, Italy.\n"}
{"id": "50448755", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50448755", "title": "Jacob Juma", "text": "Jacob Juma\n\nJacob Juma (died 5 May 2016) was a Kenyan businessman and government critic who was born on November 12th 1971 and assassinated in his car on 5 May 2016 by unknown gunmen. Opposition leader Raila Odinga claims that Juma's murder was the work of William Ruto.\n"}
{"id": "23445375", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23445375", "title": "Job sharing", "text": "Job sharing\n\nJob sharing or work sharing is an employment arrangement where typically two people are retained on a part-time or reduced-time basis to perform a job normally fulfilled by one person working full-time. Since all positions are shared thus leads to a net reduction in per-employee income. The people sharing the job work as a team to complete the job task and are equally responsible for the job workload. Compensation is apportioned between the workers. Working hours, pay and holidays are divided equally. The \"pay as you go\" system helps make deductions for national insurance and superannuations are made as a straightforward percentage.\n\nThe news media began reporting in earnest on job sharing in the 1970s and 1980s. The practice was most often described as a solution tailored for women, as one Associated Press article summarized, \"a compromise between fulltime housework and full-time employment\".\n\nIn 1972 the New Ways to Work Foundation was funded, it is a non-profit organization founded in the San Francisco Bay area. Its main focus was to help \"establish a work world that responds to the changing needs of individuals and organizations\".\n\nIn 1978 the International Personnel Management Association and the Institute of Local Self Government joined with New Ways to Work to sponsor a conference on job sharing in the public sector. More than 80 public agencies sent representatives who were to learn about the experiences in increasing the number of job sharing projects. The Part Time Career Employment Act pl 95-437 was passed in 1978 as well. It narrowed the definition of part-time career employment from scheduled work of less than 40 hours a week to scheduled work between 16–32 hours per week.\n\nJob sharing became even more prevalent during the 2000s, as women have succeeded professionally in greater numbers and proportionally seek out alternative work arrangements. in the early 2000s, two important factors began to push the job sharing movement. The access to information became increasingly easy to access and the demographics in the workforce began to change. The birth of the World Wide Web made it easier for companies and job share participants to share information through web tools like email, instant messaging, web portals, online databases and multi-user domains, these web tools allowed employees to share work in a more collaborative environment and in an asynchronous manner. The ever-changing demographics in the United States also drove the job sharing arrangement. With most of the baby boomer generation leaving the United States workforce and retiring, generation X and Y transitioned their lifestyles to an even better balance between family and work. Gender has also impacted the work force demographics: in 2004, women made up 59% of the workforce, with 50% of them in management professional positions. The banking, insurance, teaching and library professions are cited as more commonly using job sharing. Some companies that use job sharing include New York Life Insurance Company, Fireman's Fund Insurance Company, and Walgreens drugstores.\n\nIn pharmacy academia, job-sharing has been seen as a tool to help encourage and increase female employment. Female pharmacists, compared to males, desire to work part-time earlier on in their careers. There is a shortage in the pharmacy field of women due to some employers not providing flexible enough schedules to match the desires of female employees. In academia a similar problem exists, only 20% of full professors were women in 2007 even though 66% of students enrolled in pharmacy schools are women. In order to retain and increase female employment in the educational field, the University of Tennessee College of Pharmacy implemented job-sharing in 2007 and has observed a noticeable improvement.\n\nIn South Africa, job sharing has been implemented into the work force. CEO of \"Kelly\", South Africa's first job recruitment agency, Kayee Vittee, believes \"The more pressure exists in the workplace, the more severe the impact on quality and productivity. Subsequently, this also has a detrimental effect on employees' wellbeing in general\". \"Solidarity\", a South African trade union that also protects and negotiates workers rights recently developed a social plan that encourages job share as an optimum alternative to full-time jobs. South Africa's current economy, as of April, 2016, is erratic and unemployment rate is high, so South African citizens unfortunately do not see job share as a solution though it is a beneficial resolution for the current economy.\n\nJeremy Hayman, a senior lecturer at Auckland University of Technology in New Zealand specializing in Human Resource Management and Employee Relations collected data and completed a questionnaire from office employees in a large Western Australia university. Though the study was limited to University employees, the primary and recognized finding is that the flexibility provided by job sharing can benefit the integration of work, family and personal life, ultimately providing a better work experience for the employee and a better work environment especially in women aged 30–39. Though the literature on job share in Australia is largely under represented compared to other developed countries, Hayman's research was more responsive then other preexisting Australian surveys regarding job share. The findings for this study is a great foundation for the future of job share in Australia and transforming management practice and work and social life balance.\n\nThe United Kingdom has implemented job sharing for a while. In many European countries, the job sharing arrangement is already a common practice in the workforce. Companies in countries like the Czech Republic and Poland have just recently supported job sharing on widespread scale without contractual restrictions. Other European countries like Slovenia and Slovakia have enforced legitimate job share governing. A European union agency, \"Eurofound\", was created by the European council in May 1975 to create better working and living environments for Europeans. \"Eurofound\" meets annually to decide new policies and adapt to changing times and in 2015, \"Eurofound\" formally defined job sharing as a new form of employment.\n\nCaribbean countries like Puerto Rico and Haiti have also begun to practice job sharing. A few of the Caribbean islands in the Western hemisphere that have yet to adapt to the growth in the economy can possibly benefit most from job share. Many of these Caribbean countries and islands have experienced a large number of their qualified human capital who have moved towards the United States mainland, making the job supply and demand market more inconsistent and the economy more unstable. The job share program proves to be a very cost conscious from economic and business prospects.\n\nEmployees who switch to job share from a full-time job often feel less stressed because they have more time for social and family personal activities. The millennial generation and its ever-changing demographics with more women in the work force has made accomplishing the balance of career and personal life a little harder, hence making job sharing a viable and even preferred solution. Job share has proven to be extremely convenient to expecting mothers, mothers and caretakers by providing them with a more flexible and less demanding job schedule and load and allowing them to take care of their dependents. Job share employees who don’t have a constant workload and do not need to constantly commute to a job on a daily basis, lowers their stress levels, resulting in healthier lives and work-life balances. For employees seeking more free time for themselves, job sharing may be a way to take back more control of their personal lives. Employees who job share frequently attribute their decision to an improvement in \"quality of life\".\n\nFor an employer, job sharing is a benefit because it keeps two valuable employers, thereby increasing intellectual capital and experience. Job sharing can also prevent future employee burnouts from high stress careers while also making the work atmosphere more enjoyable for all. Successful job share pairing creates a mutual relationship and feel accountable for one another, consequently increasing the accomplishments they achieve together. Studies have shown that net productivity increases when two people share the same 40-hour job, making for a more effective and more than likely profitable workplace for the employer.\n\nJob share can be conflicting if the job share participants/employees are not open to a mutual agreement to distribute everything from salary, workload and time off. Job sharing can also be a disadvantage if the employee cannot afford the part-time wages or benefits. It is also possible that job sharing can make an employee feel less adequate over time and cause less productivity over time. If the job share arrangement is not effective, the transition period to finding another partner could be disruptive and detrimental to the remaining employee. If proper communication and effort does not happen between the job share participants, job share can be a negative experience because the coworkers can not be held accountable to the same expectations, shifting the delicate balance of the job share arrangement.\n\nThe disadvantages for employers can start immediately if the employer is not able to successfully match two people to the job share arrangement.This can negatively effect management because of the extra effort and time could take to produce a harmonious job share arrangement. Though job share arrangements generally split the salary in half, training two employees for a job that can be satisfied by one employee could increase administrative costs. Employers may also experience a more difficult time finding prospective employees who genuinely want to participate in job share.\n\n"}
{"id": "29133104", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29133104", "title": "Jon Barela", "text": "Jon Barela\n\nJon Barela is an American business executive. He is the Chief Executive Officer of The Borderplex Alliance, a nonprofit group dedicated to promoting business and economic development in the Ciudad Juárez, El Paso and southern New Mexico region. Previously, he served as Economic Development Secretary for the state of New Mexico and was the 2010 Republican nominee for .\n\nJon Barela was born and raised in Las Cruces, New Mexico, and attended Las Cruces High School. He earned a bachelor's degree in History and Diplomacy from the Edmund A. Walsh School of Foreign Service at Georgetown University in Washington, D.C., receiving a Bachelor of Science in Foreign Service (B.S.) in 1984. After graduation from Georgetown University School of Foreign Service, Barela joined the staff of New Mexico Congressman Joe Skeen. As a senior aide to the Congressman, he focused on the House appropriations and legislative process. While working for Congressman Skeen, Barela earned his law degree from Georgetown in 1987.\n\nBarela returned to New Mexico in 1987 and joined the Modrall law firm in Albuquerque. Four years later, he became New Mexico's Assistant Attorney General and Director of the Civil Division under then Attorney General Hal Stratton.\n\nIn 1993, Barela joined Intel as its community and government relations manager. He set company benchmarks for outreach into underrepresented communities and was awarded the Intel Achievement Award, the company's highest and most selective honor. Barela left Intel in 2005.\n\nAfter spending most of his career as an attorney and as a state and federal lobbyist, in 2002 Barela decided to become a business owner and entrepreneur. He co-founded Cerelink, a technology start-up firm that specialized in complex computer rendering for visual effects in Hollywood films. Prior to founding Cerelink, Barela had no prior experience in technology development for the entertainment industry.\n\nDuring his 2010 congressional campaign, Barela frequently cited his work at Cerelink when described himself as a successful entrepreneur. In 2011, he was questioned by media outlets on whether Cerelink was the beneficiary of tax credits from state government. In October 2010, Barela told KKOB-AM that those reports were \"erroneous.\" He told the Albuquerque Journal that his company \"never received any tax credits, period. That is just flatly inaccurate it is just wrong.\"\n\nIn July 2012, the Albuquerque Journal reported that Cerelink had stopped operations and was bankrupt, leaving the New Mexico Computer Application Center with an outstanding bill of $934,000. Barela maintains that he had no involvement with Cerelink since 2009, when he resigned from the board and reduced his stake in the company to less than 1 percent of shares.\n\nBarela has made competitiveness and improving education central themes in his chairmanship of several significant organizations, including the Albuquerque Hispano Chamber of Commerce (one of the country's largest Hispanic chambers), New Mexico First (the state's leading nonpartisan public policy group),\nNew Mexico's Work Force Development Board, and the Albuquerque Public Schools Foundation.\nHe most recently served on the Albuquerque Public Schools Board of Education, helping oversee operations of one of the country's largest school districts. The school board passed a policy that replaced a hot lunch with a meal that included a cheese sandwich, milk or juice, and carrot sticks when the children' parents fell behind with their lunch payments. Barela supported the policy, \"We don't want to be bailing people out of their responsibility because they know the community is going to step up and pay this bill.\"\n\nBarela challenged Democratic incumbent Martin Heinrich for , but was ultimately defeated in a 51%-49% race on election night. After the election, he was appointed by Governor Susana Martinez to serve as secretary of New Mexico's Economic Development Department.\n\nBarela ran unopposed in the primary for New Mexico's 1st congressional district Republican nomination.\n\nBarela has signed the Americans for Tax Reform \"Taxpayer Protection Pledge\", a written promise by legislators and candidates for office that commits them to oppose tax increases.\nHe supports programs to encourage parents' involvement in their children's education, and successful programs which show parents and children the connection between education and future success, such as the \"Learn and Earn\" program. He cites his experience in the community working on behalf of educational programs as indication that he knows what works and what does not. In regard to the Affordable Health Care for America Act, Barela prefers removing legislative and regulatory barriers to providing insurance, such as allowing interstate pooling for insurance purchase, rather than further government intervention in the health care system.\n\nBarela has received the highest rating from the National Rifle Association. The Gun Owners of America also gave him their highest rating and their endorsement.\n"}
{"id": "52958118", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52958118", "title": "Luca Barilla", "text": "Luca Barilla\n\nLuca Barilla (born 1959) is an Italian billionaire businessman, and the chairman of Barilla Group, the world's largest pasta company, which is 85% owned by Luca, his brothers Guido and Paolo, and a sister.\n"}
{"id": "56893480", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56893480", "title": "Magoroh Maruyama", "text": "Magoroh Maruyama\n\nMagoroh Maruyama (April 29, 1929 – March 16, 2018) was a Japanese/American business educator, consultant and researcher, best known for his contributions to cybernetics and morphogenesis.\n\nMaruyama was born in Tokyo, Japan as son of Shinsaku Maruyama and Toyoko (Takashima) Maruyama in 1929, and moved to the United States in 1950. He received his B.A. from the University of California at Berkeley in 1951. After postgraduate studies at the Ludwig Maximilian University of Munich and the University of Heidelberg, he obtained his Ph.D. from the University of Lund in Sweden.\n\nMaruyama started his academic career as assistant professor in human development at the University of California at Berkeley in 1960. Among his many academic appointments he was professor for Systems Science at Portland State University from 1973 to 1976. He was also Professor in the School of International Politics, Economics and Communication at Aoyama Gakuin University in Japan and was on the faculty of Stanford University, Brandeis University, Antioch College, the University of Hawaii at Manoa, and the University of Illinois.\n\nMagoroh Maruyama is the author of over hundred publications. The subjects of his research are including cybernetics, systems science, philosophy, psychology, neuroscience, anthropology, sociology, social change, business management, architectural design, and urban planning. He has been consulting companies and institutions such as the NASA, US Department of Commerce, and US Department of Interior in the United States, the OECD, Volvo and Michelin in Europe, MITI of Japan, the City of Baghdad, the Government of Ivory Coast, and Federal Motors of Indonesia.\n\nHighly cited is his paper from 1963 on \"The second cybernetics: Deviation-amplifying mutual causal processes\", in which he describes a theory of increase of heterogeneity by causal loops.\n\nSome of Maruyama's best known publications are:\n\n"}
{"id": "53069051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53069051", "title": "Merrimack Pharmaceuticals", "text": "Merrimack Pharmaceuticals\n\nMerrimack Pharmaceuticals is a pharmaceutical company based in Cambridge, Massachusetts, United States. They specialize in developing drugs for the treatment of cancer.\n\nMerrimack's first FDA-approved drug was approved in 2015; Onivyde, a liposome encapsulated version of irinotecan is used for treating pancreatic adenocarcinoma. It was approved for use in Europe the following year.\n\nMerrimack was founded by a group of scientists from MIT and Harvard University in 2000.\n\nIn 2016, Merrimack had 426 full-time employees, 103 of which had an MD or PhD.\n\nIn October 2016, CEO Robert Mulroy resigned and the company announced they would be laying off 20% of its employees. In January 2017, interim CEO Gary Crocker resigned and the board of directors appointed Richard Peters to be president and CEO. Peters previously worked at Sanofi and was a faculty member at Harvard University.\n\nIn January 2017, French pharmaceutical company Ipsen announced they would be purchasing Onivyde from Merrimack for approximately $1 billion.\n\nMerrimack has four drugs in clinical development.\n"}
{"id": "19833834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19833834", "title": "Michael Reyniersz Pauw", "text": "Michael Reyniersz Pauw\n\nKnight Michiel Reiniersz Pauw (29 March 1590 in Amsterdam – 20 March 1640 in Ghent) was a burgemeester of Amsterdam and a director of the Dutch West India Company (WIC).\n\nHe was born in Amsterdam in a rich merchant family - his father, Reinier Pauw (1564–1636) wasn't only a merchant, but also a Mayor of Amsterdam - and studied law in Leiden.\nHis brother Adriaan Pauw\n\nThe WIC was founded in 1621 to exploit trade in the Western Hemisphere, and by 1625 had established a colony at Fort Amsterdam (Lower Manhattan) and Fort Orange. In the hope of encouraging settlement the company, in 1629, started to offer vast land grants and the feudal title of patroon. under the auspices of the Charter of Freedoms and Exemptions. In 1630, Pauw purchased two tracts from the Lenape at Hopoghan Hackingh (Hoboken) and at Ashasimus (Harsimus), covering the entire peninsula between the Hudson River and Hackensack River now known as Hudson County, New Jersey, as well as a third purchase of Staten Eylandt (Staten Island), now part of New York City. The patroonship was given the Latinized form of his surname (which means \"peacock\"), Pavonia. It is said it was sold to him by the Manhattans after they had retreated there after the sale of their home island to Peter Minuit some years before. Initially, a small hut and ferry landing were built at Arresick, called Powles Hoek (Paulus Hook), but Pauw failed to fulfill the other conditions set forth by the company (which included populating the area with at least fifty adults), and was later required to sell his interests back to it.\nIn 1634 he collaborated with Kiliaen van Rensselaer and Wouter van Twiller in sending cattle (horses and cows) in the next six years.\n\nThe name Pavonia remains as an avenue and library branch in contemporary Jersey City. There is also a Pavonia Court in Bayonne and Pavonia Avenue in Kearny. Erie Railroad's Hudson waterfront terminus was called Pavonia Terminal located nearby PATH rapid transit system's station once called Pavonia. Saint Peter's College, located on land that was part of the patroonship, has as its mascot a peacock.\n\nPavonia was not the only American territory that would bear his name.\nFirst described by Amerigo Vespucci, who traveled with a Portuguese expedition of Gonçalo Coelho to Brazil in the year 1503, the Fernando de Noronha Archipelago was invaded by the English, and from 1556 until 1612, was held by the French. In 1628, it was occupied by the Dutch, who were displaced two years later by a Spanish-Portuguese military expedition led by Rui Calaza Borges. The Dutch occupied the island once again in 1635, making it a hospital for their troops who occupied Northeastern Brazil (the Brazilian coast between Rio São Francisco and Maranhão). The island became known as \"Pavonia\", in honor of Pauw. It would remain under Dutch control for nearly twenty years, when it was reconquered by Portugal.\n\nPauw was apparently very successful, and was able to commission one of the most popular architects of the period to build a \"grachtenpand\", or canal house, in Amsterdam. It may be seen in the two lead images for this article. Clad in white sandstone imported from Germany it, was the first in the city to have a \"neck\" gable.\n"}
{"id": "54068698", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54068698", "title": "Muriel Pénicaud", "text": "Muriel Pénicaud\n\nMuriel Pénicaud (born 31 March 1955) is a French public official. She was the executive vice president of human resources at Dassault Systèmes from 2002 to 2008, and at Groupe Danone from 2008 to 2014. She was appointed as the French Minister of Labour on 17 May 2017.\n\nMuriel Pénicaud was born in March 1955. She graduated from Paris Nanterre University.\n\nPénicaud worked for the French Minister of Labour from 1985 to 2002. She was an advisor to Minister Jean-Louis Bianco from 1991 to 1992, and to Minister René Teulade from 1992 to 1993.\n\nPénicaud worked for Groupe Danone from 1993 to 2002. She was the Executive Vice-President of Organization, Human Resources and Sustainable Development for Dassault Systèmes from 2002 to 2008. She returned to the Groupe Danone in 2008, where she was Executive Vice-President, Human Resources until 2014. She receives between 2012 and 2014 more than 4,7 million euros of remuneration for this activity. In addition, in April 2013, she realizes a capital gain of 1,1 million euros by dismissing 900 employees.\n\nPénicaud was appointed as the French Ambassador for International Investment in May 2014, and as the CEO of Business France on 1 January 2015. In this capacity, she promoted foreign investment in France to boost job creation.\n\nPénicaud became a knight of the Legion of Honour in 2009. She serves on the board of directors of SNCF and Paris-Saclay.\n\nPénicaud was appointed as the French Minister of Labour on 17 May 2017.\n\nA formal investigation has been opened in July 2017 into \"possible favouritism\" in the organisation of a Las Vegas technology event by Business France under the tenure of Penicaud. The French daily \"Libération\" recently underlined that she was suspected of having provided a \"truncated overview of the audit\" to Business France's board of directors.\n\nAs a human resources director at Danone in the 1990s, Muriel Pénicaud made $1.4 million from stock options while cutting 900 jobs, according to Bloomberg.\n\nPénicaud has two children.\n"}
{"id": "41799878", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41799878", "title": "Muro-Ami", "text": "Muro-Ami\n\nMuro-Ami (\"Reef Hunters\") is a 1999 Filipino film that depicts one of the worst forms of child labor in the illegal fishing system. The film follows the story of Fredo, a ruthless captain of 150 muro-ami divers, who employ illegal fishing practices, such as pounding and crushing corals to scare fish, driving them towards the nets. With a high quota to meet, Fredo forces the divers, who consist mostly of children, to accomplish at least eight dives a day to meet their goal before the millennium. Tired and harassed after the burdensome task being given to them, the children have to make do in subhuman conditions in the Muro Ami boat, \"The Aurora\". They sleep in rat-infested bunks and are fed only twice a day. Life above the water in the boat is much worse than the suffering the children encounter beneath the sea. For every dive, a child's life is perilously in danger.\n\nOn January 22, 2008, filmmaker Nick Deocampo, Director of the Movie Workers Welfare Foundation (Mowelfund) announced the holding of a Ricardo Lee Film Festival from February 4 to 10, 2008 – the World Arts Festival under Mayor Tito Sarion, in Daet city, Camarines Norte. Lee's scripts became Philippine cinema classics of Philippine cinema, which made the 2nd golden age of 1980 Filipino movies. 5 films will be shown in the festival: Gina Alajar's \"Salome,\" \"Anak,\" \"Muro Ami,\" \"Gumapang Ka sa Lusak\", and \"Memories of Old Manila\".\n\nFredo (Cesar Montano) is a fisherman who has endured more than his share of hardship in life; his wife and child both perished in a boating accident, and today Fredo approaches each trip to the sea with the angry determination of a man out for revenge. Fredo commands a crew of young people from poor families as he takes his rattletrap ship into the ocean in search of fish that live along the reefs, snaring catch with an illegal netting system. Not all of Fredo's youthful sailors are willing to put up with his abusive arrogance, however, and even his father Dado (Pen Medina) and close friend Botong (Jhong Hilario) have grown weary of Fredo's tirades. Fredo's body is beginning to betray him as well, and as he and his crew damage the sea's reef beds in search of fish, no one is certain how much longer he will be able to continue.\n\nMaestro Fredo, a tyrant captain, fixates to claim the treasures of the sea—no matter what, in whatever diabolical technique for as long as he profits. He employs dozens of men, mostly children, in his dangerous expeditions. Conditions aboard the ships are oppressive. Children are often overworked and his crew is furious with the way they are living. He blames the sea for claiming the lives of his family and he exacts revenge by plundering its depths.\n\n\nDirection: Marilou Diaz-Abaya\nScreenplay: Ricardo Lee and Jun Lana\nCinematography: Rody Lacap\nFilm Editing: Jesus Navarro\nProduction Design: Leo Abaya\nArt Direction: Bonna Fajardo and Mannix Mateo\nMusic: Nonong Buencamino\nProducers: Butch Jimenez, Jimmy Duavit, Marilou Diaz-Abaya\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2267894", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2267894", "title": "Norges Elektriske Materiellkontroll", "text": "Norges Elektriske Materiellkontroll\n\nNorges Elektriske Materiellkontroll (NEMKO) is a Norwegian private organization that supervises safety testing for electrical equipment manufacturing.\n\nThe Nemko Group offers testing, inspection and certification services concerning products, machinery, installations and systems worldwide.\n\nThe original NEMKO was established in 1933 as an institution for mandatory safety testing and national approval of electrical equipment marketed and sold in Norway for connection to the public utility network.\n\nLater, testing of radio interference requirements became another part of the approval regime.\n\nIn 1990, as Norway entered into the European Economic Area agreement, European Community Directives for product safety were adopted, and the traditional mandatory approval scheme was abandoned. As this stage, NEMKO was transformed into an independent, self-owned foundation, having a council of representatives from different interest groups (industry and trade organizations, consumer associations, utility companies etc.) as the highest level of supervision. At the same time, the foundation established and became the sole owner of Nemko AS, which constitutes the central operating company and is responsible for what is today denoted the Nemko Group.\n\nSince 1992, both the scope of services and the global presence of Nemko have been greatly expanded.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31535836", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31535836", "title": "ODS-Petrodata", "text": "ODS-Petrodata\n\nODS-Petrodata is a market intelligence company specialised in the upstream offshore oil and gas industry.\nODS-Petrodata is considered an authoritative source for market intelligence, data, market research and consulting services. \"ODS-Petrodata has been a leading provider of market intelligence and data to the offshore oil and gas industry [by association with its previous entities, ] since 1974\"\n\nODS-Petrodata was founded in 2002 from the merger of Offshore Data Services Inc., Petrodata Ltd. and Bassoe Offshore Consultants Ltd., each a provider of \"data, information and market intelligence to the offshore energy industry\". ODS-Petrodata's website claims that their organisation has existed in some form since 1973. In the recent years, they also starting producing tools and publications oriented towards the offshore renewables market.\n\nODS-Petrodata operates from offices in Houston, Aberdeen, Oslo, Singapore and Dubai.\n\nODS-Petrodata was acquired by IHS Inc. in April 2011.\n"}
{"id": "48119801", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48119801", "title": "Robert Ringen Hermann Jr.", "text": "Robert Ringen Hermann Jr.\n\nRobert Ringen Hermann Jr. (born 1953/1954) is a St. Louis businessman, president, CEO, and chairman of Hermann Companies Inc., founded by his father, and one of St. Louis' largest private sector employers.\n\nHe is the son of Robert Ringen Hermann Sr. (born 1923) and Lilly Busch (1923–1995), and grandson of August Anheuser \"Gussie\" Busch Jr.\n\nHe was educated at Deerfield Academy and Princeton University.\n\nHermann is the president, CEO, and chairman of Hermann Companies Inc. (one of St. Louis' largest private sector employers) and Anchor Packaging, a partner and advisor at Pfingsten Partners LLC, a director of Priority Transportation LLC, and of the First National Bank of St. Louis.\n\nIn 1990, he married Signa Vernon Merrill, the daughter of Mr and Mrs Robert Gordon Merrill of Locust Valley, Long Island, New York. It was his second marriage, the first having ended in divorce.\n\nIn December 2014, their daughter, Merrill Clark Hermann, was crowned Queen of Love and Beauty at the 130th annual Veiled Prophet Ball.\n"}
{"id": "305567", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=305567", "title": "Royalty payment", "text": "Royalty payment\n\nA royalty is a payment made by one party, the licensee or franchisee to another that owns a particular asset, the licensor or franchisor for the right to ongoing use of that asset. Royalties are typically agreed upon as a percentage of gross or net revenues derived from the use of an asset or a fixed price per unit sold of an item of such, but there are also other modes and metrics of compensation. A royalty interest is the right to collect a stream of future royalty payments.\n\nA license agreement defines the terms under which a resource or property are licensed by one party to another, either without restriction or subject to a limitation on term, business or geographic territory, type of product, etc. License agreements can be regulated, particularly where a government is the resource owner, or they can be private contracts that follow a general structure. However, certain types of franchise agreements have comparable provisions.\n\nA landowner with petroleum or mineral rights to their property may license those rights to another party. In exchange for allowing the other party to extract the resources, the landowner receives either a resource rent, or a \"royalty payment\" based on the value of the resources sold. When a government owns the resource, the transaction often has to follow legal and regulatory requirements.\n\nIn the United States, fee simple ownership of mineral rights is possible and payments of royalties to private citizens occurs quite often. Local taxing authorities may impose a severance tax on the unrenewable natural resources extracted (or severed) from within their authority. The Federal Government receives royalties on production on federal lands, managed by the Bureau of Ocean Energy Management, Regulation and Enforcement, formerly the Minerals Management Service.\n\nAn example from Canada's northern territories is the federal Frontier Lands Petroleum Royalty Regulations. The royalty rate starts at 1% of gross revenues of the first 18 months of commercial production and increases by 1% every 18 months to a maximum of 5% until initial costs have been recovered, at which point the royalty rate is set at 5% of gross revenues or 30% of net revenues. In this manner risks and profits are shared between the government of Canada (as resource owner) and the petroleum developer. This attractive royalty rate is intended to encourage oil and gas exploration in the remote Canadian frontier lands where costs and risks are higher than other locations.\n\nIn many jurisdictions in North America, oil and gas royalty interests are considered real property under the NAICS classification code and qualify for a 1031 like-kind exchange.\n\nOil and gas royalties are paid as a set percentage on all revenue, less any deductions that may be taken by the well operator as specifically noted in the lease agreement. The revenue decimal, or royalty interest that a mineral owner receives, is calculated as a function of the percentage of the total drilling unit to which a specific owner holds the mineral interest, the royalty rate defined in that owner's mineral lease, and any tract participation factors applied to the specific tracts owned.\n\nAs a standard example, for every $100 bbl of oil sold on a U.S. federal well with a 25% royalty, the U.S. government receives $25. The U.S. government does not pay and will only collect revenues. All risk and liability lie upon the operator of the well.\n\nRoyalties in the lumber industry are called \"stumpage\".\n\nAn intangible asset such as a patent right gives the owner an exclusive right to prevent others from practicing the patented technology in the country issuing the patent for the term of the patent. The right may be enforced in a lawsuit for monetary damages and/or imprisonment for violation on the patent. In accordance with a patent license, royalties are paid to the patent owner in exchange for the right to practice one or more of the basic patent rights: to manufacture, to use, to sell, to offer for sale, or to import a patented product, or to perform a patented method.\n\nPatent rights may be divided and licensed out in various ways, on an exclusive or non-exclusive basis. The license may be subject to limitations as to time or territory. A license may encompass an entire technology or it may involve a mere component or improvement on a technology. In the United States, \"reasonable\" royalties may be imposed, both after-the-fact and prospectively, by a court as a remedy for patent infringement. In patent infringement lawsuits where the court determines an injunction to be inappropriate in light of the case's circumstances, the court may award \"ongoing\" royalties, or royalties based on the infringer's prospective use of the patented technology, as an alternative remedy. At least one study analyzing a sample of 35 cases in which a court awarded an ongoing royalty has found that ongoing royalty awards \"exceed[] by a statistically significant amount the jury-determined reasonably royalty.\"\n\nIn 2007, patent rates within the United States were:\n\nIn 2002, the Licensing Economics Review found in a review of 458 licence agreements over a 16-year period an average royalty rate of 7% with a range from 0% to 50%.\nAll of these agreements may not have been at \"arms length\". In license negotiation, firms might derive royalties for the use of a patented technology from the retail price of the downstream licensed product.\n\nIn Arab countries, a royalty as a percentage of sales may be difficult to transact; a flat fee may be preferred as percentages may be interpreted as percentage of profit.\n\nTrade marks are words, logos, slogans, sounds, or other distinctive expressions that distinguish the source, origin, or sponsorship of a good or service (in which they are generally known as service marks). Trade marks offer the public a means of identifying and assuring themselves of the quality of the good or service. They may bring consumers a sense of security, integrity, belonging, and a variety of intangible appeals. The value that inures to a trade mark in terms of public recognition and acceptance is known as goodwill.\n\nA trade mark right is an exclusive right to sell or market under that mark within a geographic territory. The rights may be licensed to allow a company other than the owner to sell goods or services under the mark. A company may seek to license a trade mark it did not create in order to achieve instant name recognition rather than accepting the cost and risk of entering the market under its own brand that the public does not necessarily know or accept. Licensing a trade mark allows the company to take advantage of already-established goodwill and brand identification.\n\nLike patent royalties, trade mark royalties may be assessed and divided in a variety of different ways, and are expressed as a percentage of sales volume or income, or a fixed fee per unit sold. When negotiating rates, one way companies value a trade mark is to assess the additional profit they will make from increased sales and higher prices (sometimes known as the \"relief from royalty\") method.\n\nTrade mark rights and royalties are often tied up in a variety of other arrangements. Trade marks are often applied to an entire brand of products and not just a single one. Because trade mark law has as a public interest goal of the protection of a consumer, in terms of getting what they are paying for, trade mark licences are only effective if the company owning the trade mark also obtains some assurance in return that the goods will meet its quality standards. When the rights of trade mark are licensed along with a know-how, supplies, pooled advertising, etc., the result is often a franchise relationship. Franchise relationships may not specifically assign royalty payments to the trade mark licence, but may involve monthly fees and percentages of sales, among other payments.\n\nIn a long-running dispute in the United States involving the valuation of the DHL trade mark of DHL Corporation, it was reported that experts employed by the IRS surveyed a wide range of businesses and found a broad range of royalties for trade mark use from a low of 0.1% to a high of 15%.\n\nWhile a payment to employ a trade mark licence is a royalty, it is accompanied by a \"guided usage manual\", the use of which may be audited from time to time. However, this becomes a \"supervisory\" task when the mark is used in a franchise agreement for the sale of goods or services carrying the reputation of the mark. For a franchise, it is said, a \"fee\" is paid, even though it comprises a royalty element.\n\nTo be a franchise, the agreement must be a composite of the items:\n\nOne of the above three items must \"not\" apply for the franchise agreement to be considered a trade mark agreement (and its laws and conventions). In a franchise, for which there is no convention, laws apply concerning training, brand support, operating systems/support and technical support in a written format (\"Disclosure\").\n\nCopyright law gives the owner the right to prevent others from copying, creating derivative works, or using their works. Copyrights, like patent rights, can be divided in many different ways, by the right implicated, by specific geographic or market territories, or by more specific criteria. Each may be the subject of a separate license and royalty arrangements.\n\nCopyright royalties are often very specific to the nature of work and field of endeavor. With respect to music, royalties for performance rights in the United States are set by the Library of Congress' Copyright Royalty Board. Performance rights to recordings of a performance are usually managed by one of several performance rights organizations. Payments from these organizations to performing artists are known as residuals and performance royalties. Royalty-free music provides more direct compensation to the artists. In 1999, recording artists formed the Recording Artists' Coalition to repeal supposedly \"technical revisions\" to American copyright statutes which would have classified all \"sound recordings\" as \"works for hire\", effectively assigning artists' copyrights to record labels.\n\nBook authors may sell their copyright to the publisher. Alternatively, they might receive as a royalty a certain amount per book sold. It is common in the UK for example, for authors to receive a 10% royalty on book sales.\n\nSome photographers and musicians may choose to publish their works for a one-time payment. This is known as a royalty-free license.\n\nAll book-publishing royalties are paid by the publisher, who determines an author's royalty rate, except in rare cases in which the author can demand high advances and royalties.\n\nFor most cases, the publishers advance an amount (part of the royalty) which can constitute the bulk of the author's total income plus whatever little flows from the \"running royalty\" stream. Some costs may be attributed to the advance paid, which depletes further advances to be paid or from the running royalty paid. The author and the publisher can independently draw up the agreement that binds them or alongside an agent representing the author. There are many risks for the author—definition of cover price, the retail price, \"net price\", the discounts on the sale, the bulk sales on the POD (publish on demand) platform, the term of the agreement, audit of the publishers accounts in case of impropriety, etc. which an agent can provide.\n\nThe following illustrates the income to an author on the basis chosen for royalty, particularly in POD, which minimizes losses from inventory and is based on computer technologies.\n\nHardback royalties on the published price of trade books usually range from 10% to 12.5%, with 15% for more important authors. On paperback it is usually 7.5% to 10%, going up to 12.5% only in exceptional cases. All the royalties displayed below are on the \"cover price\". Paying 15% to the author can mean that the other 85% of the cost pays for editing and proof-reading, printing and binding, overheads, and the profits (if any) to the publisher.\n\nThe publishing company pays no royalty on bulk purchases of books since the buying price may be a third of the cover price sold on a singles basis.\n\nUnlike the UK, the United States does not specify a \"maximum retail price\" for books that serves as base for calculation.\n\nMethods of calculating royalties changed during the 1980s, due to the rise of retail chain booksellers, which demanded increasing discounts from publishers. As a result, rather than paying royalties based on a percentage of a book's cover price, publishers preferred to pay royalties based on their net receipts. According to \"The Writers' and Artists' Yearbook\" of 1984, under the new arrangement, 'appropriate [upward] adjustments are of course made to the royalty figure and the arrangement is of no disadvantage to the author.\"\n\nDespite this assurance, in 1991, Frederick Nolan, author and former publishing executive, explained that \"net receipts\" royalties are often more in the interest of publishers than authors:\nIt makes sense for the publisher to pay the author on the basis of what he receives, but it by no means makes it a good deal for the author. Example: 10,000 copies of a $20 book with a 10 percent cover-price royalty will earn him $20,000. The same number sold but discounted at 55 percent will net the publisher $90,000; the author's ten percent of that figure yields him $9,000. Which is one reason why publishers prefer \"net receipts\" contracts...Among the many other advantages (to the publisher) of such contracts is the fact that they make possible what is called a 'sheet deal'. In this, the (multinational) publisher of that same 10,000 copy print run, can substantially reduce his printing cost by 'running on' a further 10,000 copies (that is to say, printing but not binding them), and then further profit by selling these 'sheets' at cost-price or even lower if he so chooses to subsidiaries or overseas branches, then paying the author 10 percent of 'net receipts' from that deal. The overseas subsidiaries bind up the sheets into book form and sell at full price for a nice profit to the Group as a whole. The only one who loses is the author.\n\nIn 2003 two American authors Ken Englade and Patricia Simpson successfully sued HarperCollins (USA) for selling their work to its foreign affiliates at improperly high discounts (\"Harper Collins is essentially selling books to itself, at discounted rates, upon which it then calculates the author's royalty, and then Harper Collins shares in the extra profit when the book is resold to the consumer by the foreign affiliates, without paying the author any further royalty.\")\n\nThis forced a \"class action\" readjustment for thousands of authors contracted by HarperCollins between November 1993 and June 1999.\n\nUnlike other forms of intellectual property, music royalties have a strong linkage to individuals – composers (score), songwriters (lyrics) and writers of musical plays – in that they can own the exclusive copyright to created music and can license it for performance independent of corporates. Recording companies and the performing artists that create a \"sound recording\" of the music enjoy a separate set of copyrights and royalties from the sale of recordings and from their digital transmission (depending on national laws).\n\nWith the advent of pop music and major innovations in technology in the communication and presentations of media, the subject of music royalties has become a complex field with considerable change in the making.\n\nA musical composition obtains copyright protection as soon as it is written out or recorded. But it is not protected from infringed use unless it is registered with the copyright authority, for instance, the Copyright Office in the United States, which is administered by the Library of Congress. No person or entity, other than the copyright owner, can use or employ the music for gain without obtaining a license from the composer/songwriter.\n\nInherently, as copyright, it confers on its owner, a distinctive \"bundle\" of five exclusive rights:\n\nWhere the score and the lyric of a composition are contributions of different persons, each of them is an equal owner of such rights.\n\nThese exclusivities have led to the evolution of distinct commercial terminology used in the music industry.\n\nThey take four forms:\n\nWith the advent of the internet, an additional set of royalties has come into play: the \"digital rights\" from simulcasting, webcasting, streaming, downloading, and online \"on-demand service\".\n\nIn the following the terms \"composer\" and \"songwriter\" (either lyric or score) are synonymous.\n\nWhile the focus here is on royalty rates pertaining to music marketed in the print form or \"sheet music\", its discussion is a prelude to the much more important and larger sources of royalty income today from music sold in media such as CDs, television and the internet.\n\nSheet music is the first form of music to which royalties were applied, which was then gradually extended to other formats. Any performance of music by singers or bands requires that it be first reduced to its written sheet form from which the \"song\" (score) and its lyric are read. Otherwise, the authenticity of its origin, essential for copyright claims, will be lost, as was the case with folk songs and American \"westerns\" propagated by the oral tradition.\n\nThe ability to print music arises from a series of technological developments in print and art histories over a long span of time (from the 11th to the 18th century) of which two will be highlighted.\n\nThe first, and commercially successful, invention was the development of the \"movable type\" printing press, the Gutenberg press in the 15th century. It was used to print the well-known Gutenberg Bible and later the printing system enabled printed music. Printed music, till then, tended to be one line chants. The difficulty in using movable type for music is that all the elements must align – the note head must be properly aligned with the staff, lest it have an unintended meaning.\n\nMusical notation was well developed by then, originating around 1025. Guido d'Arezzo developed a system of pitch notation using lines and spaces. Until this time, only two lines had been used. Guido expanded this system to four lines, and initiated the idea of ledger lines by adding lines above or below these lines as needed. He used square notes called neumes. This system eliminated any uncertainty of pitch which existed at that time. Guido also developed a system of clefs, which became the basis for our clef system: bass clef, treble clef, and so on. (Co-existing civilizations used other forms of notation).\n\nIn Europe, the major consumers of printed music in the 17th and 18th centuries were the royal courts for both solemn and festive occasions. Music was also employed for entertainment, both by the courts and the nobility. Composers made their livings from commissioned work, and worked as conductors, performers and tutors of music or through appointments to the courts. To a certain extent, music publishers also paid composers for rights to print music, but this was not royalty as it is generally understood today.\n\nThe European Church was also a large user of music, both religious and secular. However, performances were largely based on hand-written music or aural training.\n\nUntil the mid-18th century, American popular music largely consisted of songs from the British Isles, whose lyric and score were sometimes available in engraved prints. Mass production of music was not possible until the movable type was introduced. Music with this type was first printed in the US in 1750. At the beginning the type consisted of the notehead, stem and staff which were combined into a single font. Later the fonts were made up of the notehead, stems and flags attached to the staff line. Until that time, prints existed only on engraved plates.\n\nThe first federal law on copyright was enacted in the US Copyright Act of 1790 which made it possible to give protection to original scores and lyrics.\n\nAmerica's most prominent contribution is jazz and all the music styles which preceded and co-exist with it – its variations on church music, African-American work songs, cornfield hollers, wind bands in funeral procession, blues, rag, etc. – and of innovations in church music, rhythmic variations, stamping, tapping of feet, strutting, shuffling, wailing, laments and spiritual ecstasy.\n\nUntil its recent sophistication, jazz was not amenable to written form, and thus not copyrightable, due to its improvisational element and the fact that many of the creators of this form could not read or write music. It was its precursor, minstrelsy, which came to be written and royalties paid for the use of popular music.\n\nBlackface minstrelsy was the first distinctly American theatrical form. In the 1830s and 1840s, it was at the core of the rise of an American music industry. \n\nStephen Foster was the pre-eminent songwriter in the United States of that time. His songs, such as \"Oh! Susanna\", \"Camptown Races\", \"My Old Kentucky Home\", \"Beautiful Dreamer\" and \"Swanee River\" remain popular 150 years after their composition and have worldwide appreciation. Foster composed songs for Christy's Minstrels, one of the prominent minstrel groups of the time.\n\nFoster had little formal music training. While he was able to publish several songs before he was twenty, his sophistication came from Henry Kleber and Dan Rice. Kleber was a classically trained German immigrant, and Rice was a popular blackface performer who befriended Foster. But it was his joining the Christy Minstrels which made him, and his songs, favorites in North America.\n\nW.C. Peters was the first major publisher of Foster's works, but Foster saw very little of the profits. \"Oh, Susanna\" was an overnight success and a Goldrush favorite but Foster received just $100 from his publisher for it - in part due to his lack of interest in money and the free gifts of music he gave to him. Foster's first love lay in writing music and its success. Foster did later contract with Christy (for $15 each) for \"Old Folks at Home\" and \"Farewell my Lilly Dear\". \"Oh, Susanna\" also led Foster to two New York publishers, Firth, Pond and Co. and F.D. Benson, who contracted with him to pay royalties at 2 cents for every printed copy sold by them.\n\nMinstrelsy slowly gave way to songs generated by the American Civil War, followed by the rise of Tin Pan Alley and Parlour music, both of which led to an explosion of sheet music, greatly aided by the emergence of the player piano. While the player piano was to make inroads deep into the 20th century, more and more music was reproduced through radio and the phonograph, leading to new forms of royalty payments, but leading to the decline of sheet music.\n\nAmerican innovations in church music also provided royalties to its creators. While Stephen Foster is often credited as the originator of print music in America, William Billings is the real father of American music. In 1782, of the 264 music compositions in print, 226 were his church-related compositions. Similarly, Billings was the composer of a quarter of the 200 anthems published until 1810. Neither he nor his family saw any royalties, although the Copyright Act of 1790 was in place by then.\n\nChurch music plays a significant part in American print royalties. When the Lutheran Church split from the Catholic Church in the 16th century, more than religion changed. Martin Luther wanted his entire congregation to take part in the music of his services, not just the choir. This new chorale style finds its way in both present church music and jazz.\n\nThe royalty rate for printing a book (a novel, lyrics or music) globally, or its download, for sale varies from 20-30% of the suggested retail sales value, typically 20–25%, for a new writer that is taken by the publisher/distributor. The payment is made by the publisher/distributor and corresponds to the agreement (license) between the writer and the publisher/distributor as with other music royalties. The agreement is typically non-exclusive to the publisher and the term may vary from 3–5 years. Established writers favor certain publishers/distributors and usually receive higher royalties.\n\nAll of the royalty does not occur to the writer. It is shared with the publisher on of book sales income on a 50:50 basis.\n\nIf a book involved is a play, it might be dramatized. The right to dramatize is a separate right – known as a grand right. This income is shared by the many personalities and organizations who come together to offer the play: the playwright, composer of the music played, producer, director of the play and so forth. There is no convention to the royalties paid for grand rights and it is freely negotiated between the publisher and the mentioned participants.\n\nIf the writer's work is only part of a publication, then the royalty paid is \"pro-rata\", a facet which is more often met in a book of lyrics or in a book of hymns and sometimes in an anthology.\n\nChurch music – that is, music that is based on written work – is important particularly in the Americas and in some other countries of Europe. Examples are hymns, anthems and songbooks. Unlike novels and plays, hymns are sung with regularity. Very often, the hymns and songs are sung from lyrics in a book, or more common nowadays, from the work projected on computer screen. In the US, the Christian Copyright Licensing International, Inc. is the collection agency for royalties but song or hymn writers have to be registered with them and the songs identified.\n\nViewed from a US perspective, foreign publishing involves two basic types of publishing – sub-publishing and co-publishing occurrences in one or more territories outside that of basic origin. Sub-publishing, itself, is one of two forms: sub-publishers who merely license out the original work or those which make and sell the products which are the subject of the license, such as print books and records (with local artists performing the work).\n\nSub-publishers who produce and market a product retain 10–15% of the marked retail price and remit the balance to the main publisher with whom they have the copyright license. Those sub-publishers who merely license out the work earn between 15–25%.\n\nAlthough the terms \"mechanical\" and mechanical license have their origins in the piano rolls on which music was recorded in the early part of the 20th century, the scope of their modern usage is much wider and covers any copyrighted audio composition that is rendered mechanically (i.e., without human performers). As such, it includes:\n\nThe United States treatment of mechanical royalties differs markedly from international practice. In the United States, while the right to use copyrighted music for making records for public distribution (for private use) is an exclusive right of the composer, the Copyright Act provides that \"once\" the music is so recorded, anyone else can record the composition/song without a negotiated license but on the payment of the statutory compulsory royalty. Thus, its use by different artists could lead to several separately owned copyrighted \"sound recordings\".\n\nThe following is a partial segment of the compulsory rates as they have applied from 1998 to 2007 in the United States. The royalty rates in the table have two elements: (i) a minimum rate applies for a duration equivalent to 5 minutes, or less, of a musical composition/song and (ii) a per-minute rate if the composition exceeds it, whichever is greater.\n\nIn the predominant case, the composer assigns the song copyright to a publishing company under a \"publishing agreement\" which makes the publisher exclusive owner of the composition. The publisher's role is to promote the music by extending the written music to \"recordings\" of vocal, instrumental and orchestral arrangements and to administer the collection of royalties (which, as will shortly be seen, is in reality done by specialized companies). The publisher also licenses 'subpublishers' domestically and in other countries to similarly promote the music and administer the collection of royalties.\n\nIn a fair publishing agreement, every 100 units of currency that flows to the publisher gets divided as follows: 50 units go to the songwriter and 50 units to the publisher minus operating and administrative fees and applicable taxes. However, the music writer obtains a further 25 units from the publisher's share, if the music writer retains a portion of the music publishing rights (as a co-publisher). In effect, the co-publishing agreement is a 50/50 share of royalties in favor of the songwriter if administrative costs of publishing are disregarded. This is near international practice.\n\nWhen a company (recording label) records the composed music, say, on a CD master, it obtains a distinctly \"separate\" copyright to the sound recording, with all the exclusivities that flow to such copyright. The main obligation of the recording label to the songwriter and her publisher is to pay the contracted royalties on the license received.\n\nWhile the compulsory rates remain unaffected, recording companies in the U.S. typically will negotiate to pay not more than 75% of the compulsory rate where the songwriter is also the recording artist and will further (in the U.S.) extend that to a maximum of 10 songs, even though the marketed recording may carry more than that number. This 'reduced rate' results from the incorporation of a \"controlled composition\" clause in the licensing contract since the composer as recording artist is seen to control the content of the recording.\n\nMechanical royalties for music produced outside of the United States are negotiated – there being no compulsory licensing – and royalty payments to the composer and her publisher for recordings are based on the wholesale, retail, or \"suggested retail value\" of the marketed CDs.\n\n\"Recording artists\" earn royalties only from the \"sale\" of CDs and tapes and, as will be seen later, from sales arising from digital rights. Where the songwriter is also the recording artist, royalties from CD sales add to those from the recording contract.\n\nIn the U.S., recording artists earn royalties amounting to 10%–25% (of the suggested retail price of the recording depending on their popularity but such is before deductions for \"packaging\", \"breakage\", \"promotion sales\" and holdback for \"returns\", which act to significantly reduce net royalty incomes.\n\nIn the U.S., the Harry Fox Agency, HFA, is the predominant licensor, collector and distributor for mechanical royalties, although there are several small competing organizations. For its operations, it charges about 6% as commission. HFA, like its counterparts in other countries, is a state-approved quasi-monopoly and is expected to act in the interests of the composers/songwriters – and thus obtains the right to audit record company sales. Additional third party administrators such as RightsFlow provide services to license, account and pay mechanical royalties and are growing. RightsFlow is paid by the licensees (artists, labels, distributors, online music services) and in turn does not extract a commission from the mechanical royalties paid out.\n\nIn the UK the Mechanical-Copyright Protection Society, MCPS (now in alliance with PRS), acts to collect (and distribute) royalties to composers, songwriters and publishers for CDs and for digital formats. It is a not-for-profit organization which funds its work through a commissions on aggregate revenues. The royalty rate for licensing tracks is 6.5% of retail price (or 8.5% of the published wholesale price).\n\nIn Europe, the major licensing and mechanical royalty collection societies are:\n\nSACEM acts collectively for \"francophone\" countries in Africa. The UK society also has strong links with English-speaking African countries.\n\nMechanical societies for other countries can be found at the main national collection societies.\n\nThe mechanical royalty rate paid to the publisher in Europe is about 6.5% on the Published Price to Dealer (PPD).\n\nRecord companies are responsible for paying royalties to those artists who have performed for a recording based on the sale of CDs by retailers.\n\n\"Performance\" in the music industry can include any of the following:\n\nIn the United Kingdom, the Church of England is specifically exempted from performance royalties for music performed in services because it is a state-established church. Traditionally, American music publishers have not sought performance royalties for music sung and played in church services–the license to perform being implied by distributors of church sheet music. ASCAP, BMI, and SESAC exempt church worship services from performance royalties, but make no exemption for church-hosted concerts.\n\nIt is useful to treat these royalties under two classifications:\n\nIn the conventional context, royalties are paid to composers and publishers and record labels for public performances of their music on vehicles such as the jukebox, stage, radio or TV. Users of music need to obtain a \"performing rights license\" from music societies – as will be explained shortly – to use the music. Performing rights extend both to live and recorded music played in such diverse areas as cafés, skating rinks, etc.\n\nLicensing is generally done by music societies called \"Performing Rights Organizations\" (PROs), \"some\" of which are government-approved or government-owned, to which the composer, the publisher, performer (in some cases) or the record label have subscribed.\nThe diagram on the right titled \"The Performance Rights Complex\" shows the general sequences by which a song or a composition gets to be titled a \"performance\" and which brings royalties to songwriters/publishers, performing artists and record labels. How, and to whom, royalties are paid is different in the United States from what it is, for example, in the UK. Most countries have \"practices\" more in common with the UK than the US.\n\nIn the United Kingdom there are three principal organizations:\n\nwho license music (to music-users) and act as royalty collection and distribution agencies for their members.\n\nPPL issues performance licenses to all UK radio, TV and broadcast stations, as well as establishments who employ sound recordings (tapes, CDs), in entertaining the public. The licensing company collects and distributes royalties to the \"record label\" for the sound recording and to \"featured UK performers\" in the recording. Performers do not earn from sound recordings on video and film.\n\nPRS, which is now in alliance with MCPS, collects royalties from music-users and distributes them directly to \"song-writers\" and \"publishers\" whose works are performed live, on radio or on TV on a 50:50 basis. MCPS licenses music for broadcast in the range 3 to 5.25% of net advertising revenues.\n\nMCPS also collects and disburses mechanical royalties to writers and publishers in a manner similar to PRS. Although allied, they serve, for now, as separate organizations for membership.\n\nThe next diagram shows the sequences in the licensing of performances and the royalty collection and distribution process in the UK. Every song or recording has a unique identity by which they are licensed and tracked. Details of songs or recordings are notified to the PROs directly, or through Catco, an electronic tracking system. It needs to be clarified that while blanket licenses are commonly issued to music-users, the latter are responsible for \"usage returns\" – the actual frequency of performances under the license – which then becomes the basis for the PRO to apportion royalties to writers, publishers and record labels. (\"DIY indies\" are \"do-it-yourself\" independent songwriters – and, often, the performers as well – who record and publish under their own labels). In the UK, music is licensed (and royalties paid on it) \"at the track level\".\n\nThere is also a separate organization in the UK called VPL, which is the collecting society set up by the record industry in 1984 to grant licenses to users of music videos, e.g. broadcasters, program-makers, video jukebox system suppliers. The licensing income collected from users is paid out to the society's members after administrative costs are deducted.\n\nThere are different models for royalty collection in the European countries. In some of them, mechanical and performing rights are administered jointly. SACEM (France), SABAM (Belgium), GEMA (Germany) and JASRAC (Japan) work that way.\n\nIn the United States, in contrast, the ASCAP, BMI (Broadcast Music, Inc) and SESAC (Society of European Stage Authors & Composers) are the three principal Performance Rights Organizations (PROs), although smaller societies exist. The royalty that is paid to the composer and publisher is determined by the method of assessment used by the PRO to gage the utilization of the music, there being no external metrics as in mechanical royalties or the reporting system used in the UK. Very basically, a PRO aggregates the royalties that are due to all of the composers/songwriters \"who are its members\" and each composer and publisher is paid royalties based on the assessed frequency of the music's performance, post deductions of charges (which are many). The PROs are audited agencies. They \"directly\" pay the songwriter and the publisher their respective shares. (If part of the publisher's share is retained by the songwriter, the publisher pays the songwriter that part of the publisher's share).\n\nTypically, the PRO negotiates blanket licenses with radio stations, television networks and other \"music users\", each of whom receives the right to perform any of the music in the repertoire of the PRO for a set sum of money.\n\nPROs use different types of surveys to determine the frequency of usage of a composition/song. ASCAP uses random sampling, SESAC utilizes cue sheets for TV performances and 'digital pattern recognition' for radio performances while BMI employs more scientific methods.\n\nIn the United States only the composer and the publisher are paid performance royalties and not performing artists (digital rights being a different matter). Likewise, the record label, whose music is used in a performance, is not entitled to royalties in the US on the premise that performances lead sales of records.\n\nWhere a performance has co-writers along with the composer/songwriter – as in a musical play – they will share the royalty.\n\nRegulatory provisions in the US, EU and elsewhere is in a state of flux, continuously being challenged by developments in technology; thus almost any regulation stated here exists in a tentative format.\n\nThe US Copyright Act of 1976 identified \"musical works\" and \"sound recordings\" eligible for copyright protection. The term \"musical work\" refers to the notes and lyrics of a song or a piece of music, while a \"sound recording\" results from its fixation on physical media. Copyright owners of musical works are granted exclusive rights to license over-the-air radio and TV broadcasts, entitling them royalties, which are, as said earlier, collected and distributed by the PROs. Under the Act, record companies and recording artists are, presently, not entitled to royalties from radio and TV broadcasts of their music, except in the case of digital services and webcasts where copyright owners and performers obtain royalties (see later). This is in contrast to international standards where performers also obtain royalties from over-the-air and digital broadcasting.\n\nIn 1995, the Congress introduced the \"Digital Performance Right in Sound Recordings Act (DPRA)\", which became effective 1 Feb 1996. This Act granted owners of \"sound recordings\" the exclusive license to perform the copyrighted work publicly by means of digital audio transmissions but it exempted non-subscription services (and some other services). Where the rights owner could not voluntarily reach agreement with the broadcaster, it could avail of compulsory licensing provisions. Under the Act, the compulsory royalty (the royalty schedule follows) was to be shared in the manner: 50% to the record companies, 45% to featured artists, 2½% to non-featured musicians through American Federation of Musicians (AFM) in the United States and Canada and 2½% for non-featured vocalists through American Federation of Television and Radio Artists (AFTRA). United States Congress also created a new compulsory license for certain subscription digital audio services, which transmit sound recordings via cable television and Direct-broadcast satellite (DBS) on a non-interactive basis in the absence of a voluntary negotiation and agreement.\n\nIn 1998, the Congress amended DPRA to create the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA) by redefining the above-noted subscription services of DPRA as \"preexisting subscription services\" and expanded the statutory license to include new categories of digital audio services that may operate under the license. In effect, DMCA created three categories of licensees:\n\n\nIn addition to the above, a fourth license was created permit webcasters to make \"ephemeral recordings\" of a sound recording (temporary copies) to facilitate streaming but with a royalty to be paid.\n\nNon-subscription webcasting royalties have also to be shared between record companies and performers in the proportions set out under DPRA.\n\nThe Table below titled SUMMARY OF STATUTORY ROYALTY RATES FOR DIGITAL WEBCASTING - UNITED STATES encapsulates the royalties set for non-interactive webcasting.\n\nTo qualify for compulsory licensing under non-subscription services, the webcasting needs to fit the following six criteria:\n\nAn \"inter-active service\" is one which allows a listener to receive a specially created internet stream in which she dictates the songs to be played by selecting songs from the website menu. Such a service would take the website out from under the compulsory license and require negotiations with the copyright owners.\n\nHowever, a service is non-interactive if it permits people to request songs which are then played to the public at large. Nonetheless, several rules apply such as, within any three-hour period, three cuts from a CD, but no more than two cuts consecutively can be played, or a site can play four songs from any singer from a boxed CD-set, but no more than three cuts consecutively.\n\nBoth interactive and non-interactive streaming services are required and regulated by the Copyright Royalty Judges to pay out a minimum fee per stream. Interactive services must pay out $0.0022 per stream while non-interactive streaming services must pay $0.0017 per stream. These rates are set to be what these services are required to distribute per stream and has been the rate since January 1, 2016 and will be reevaluated after December 31, 2020.\n\nThe SoundExchange, a non-profit organization, is defined under the legislation to act on behalf of record companies (including the majors) to license performance and reproduction rights and negotiate royalties with the broadcasters. It is governed by a board of artist and label representatives. Services include track level accounting of performances to all \"members\" and collection and distribution of foreign royalties to all members.\n\nIn the absence of a voluntary agreement between the SoundExchange and the broadcasters, Copyright Arbitration Royalty Panel (CARP) was authorized to set the statutory rates as could prevail between a \"willing buyer\" and \"willing sellers\". SoundExchange handles only the collection of royalties from \"compulsory licenses\" for non-interactive streaming services that use satellite, cable or internet methods of distribution.\n\nTo recap, under the law three types of licenses are required for streaming of musical recordings:\n\nThe royalties for the first of the above two licenses are obtained from SoundExchange and the third from the PROs. Failure to make required payments constitutes copyright infringement and is subject to statutory damages.\n\nBoth broadcasters involved in webcasting and pure-Internet non-broadcasters are required to pay these royalties under the rules framed under the Act. All webcasters are also required to be registered with the United States Copyright Office.\n\nSUMMARY OF STATUTORY ROYALTY RATES FOR DIGITAL WEBCASTING - UNITED STATES\n\nIn 2017, 82% of revenues for the entire music industry was attributed to digital music services. Streaming accounted for 67% of revenues in the US music industry.\n\nThe United Kingdom adopted the European Copyright Directive (EUCD) in 2003 and the meaning of broadcast performance was broadened to cover \"communicating to the public\". This then included music distribution through the internet and the transmission of ringtones to mobiles. Thus a music download was a \"copy\" of proprietary music and hence required to be licensed.\n\nAfter a prolonged battle on royalties between online music companies such as AOL, Napster and the recording companies (but not all of them), represented by the British Phonographic Industry (BPI), and organizations representing the interests of songwriters (MCPS and PRS) a compromise was reached, leading to a subsequent 3-year interim legislation (2007) adopted by the UK Copyright Tribunal under the Copyright, Designs and Patents Act 1988. The legislation, referring to a new JOL (Joint Online License), applies only to music purchased within UK.\n\nThe applicable royalties are given in the table below which, also includes music downloads and music services through mobile devices. This path-breaking legislation is expected to become the model for EU (which is yet to develop comprehensive legislation), and perhaps even extend to the US.\n\nNote that the new legislation includes the distinction between downloads of musical tracks from iTunes and other stores, which were considered \"sales\" and the webcasts considered \"performances\".\n\nIn brief, the compromise reached is that songwriters will receive 8% of gross revenues (definition follows), less VAT, as royalty for each track downloaded bridging the demand of the artists demanding a 12% royalty rate (what was, otherwise, the norm for a CD) and music companies holding out for 6.5%, slightly higher than the 5.7% paid for a 79p track sold by iTunes. A minimum of four pence will be paid, in the new legislation, if tracks are discounted.\n\nThe terms used in the legislated Table are explained following it.\n\nNot all music providers in the UK were part of the compromise that led to the legislation. For those not participating - principally, AOL, Yahoo! and RealNetworks - the Tribunal set the royalty rate for pure webcasting at 5.75%.\n\nUK legislation recognizes the term online as referring to downloading digital files from the internet and mobile network operators. Offline is the term used for the delivery of music through physical media such as a CD or a DVD.\n\nA stream is a file of continuous music listened to through a consumer's receiving device with no playable copy of the music remaining.\n\nPermanent Downloads are transfers (sale) of music from a website to a computer or mobile telephone for permanent retention and use whenever the purchaser wishes, analogous to the purchase of a CD.\n\nA Limited Download is similar to a permanent download but differs from it in that the consumer's use of the copy is in some way restricted by associated technology; for instance, becomes unusable when the subscription ends (say, through an encoding, such as DRM, of the downloaded music).\n\nOn-demand streaming is music streamed to the listener on the computer or mobile to enable her to listen to the music once, twice or a number of times during the period of subscription to the service.\n\nPure Webcasting is where the user receives a stream of pre-programmed music chosen \"by the music service provider\". It is non-interactive to the extent that even pausing or skipping of tracks is not possible.\n\nPremium and Interactive Webcasting are personalized subscription services intermediate between pure webcasting and downloading.\n\nSpecial webcasting is a service where the user can choose a stream of music, the majority of which comprises works from one source – an artist, group or particular concert.\n\nSimulcasting, although not in the Table above, is the simultaneous re-transmission by a licensed transmission of the program of a radio or TV station over the internet of an otherwise traditional broadcast. The person receiving the simulcast normally makes no permanent copy of it. It is defined in the legislation as an offline service.\n\n'Gross Revenue', which is comprehensively defined in the legislation, summarized here, means, all revenue received (or receivable) by the licensee from Users, all revenue received through advertisements associated with the music service, sponsorship fees, commissions from third parties and revenue arising from barter or contra deals. No deductions are permitted except for refunds of unused music due to technical faults.\n\nThe advertising revenue which is shared between the artist and music provider is defined as:\n\nAccording to Joel Mabus, the term synchronization \"comes from the early days of the talkies when music was first synchronized with film\". The terminology originated in US industry but has now spread worldwide.\n\nIn the UK and elsewhere, with the exception of the US, there is apparently no legal prohibition to the combination of audio and visual images and no explicit statutory right for the collection of synch royalties. In the US, however, the Copyright Act defines the audiovisual format as that of combining images with music for use in machines and there is no explicit rate set such as the \"compulsory royalty rate\" for copying music. However, there are instances of courts implying the synchronization right, but even so, it is an amorphous colloquial commercial term of acceptance.\n\nSynchronization royalties (\"sync licenses\") are paid for the use of copyrighted music in (largely) audiovisual productions, such as in DVDs, movies, and advertisements. Music used in news tracks are also synch licenses. Synchronization can extend to live media performances, such as plays and live theatre. They become extremely important for new media - the usage of music in the form of mp3, wav, flac files and for usage in webcasts, embedded media in microchips (e.g. karaoke), etc. but the legal conventions are yet to be drawn.\n\nSynchronization royalties are due to the composer/songwriter or his/her publisher. They are strictly contractual in nature and vary greatly in amount depending on the subjective importance of the music, the mode of production and the media used. The royalty payable is that of mutual acceptance but is conditioned by industry practice.\n\nIt is useful to note in this connection the concept of the \"needle drop\" (now laser drop) in that the synch royalty becomes payable every time the needle drops 'on the record player' in a public performance. All openings and closings, every cut to advertisements, every cut back from ads, all re-runs shown by every TV company, in every country in the world generates a \"synchro\", although a single payment may be renegotiable in advance.\n\nThere is a category of royalty free music in the field of synchronization. This refers to the use of music in a \"library\" for which a one-time royalty has been negotiated. It is an alternative to needle-drop negotiation.\n\nIn terms of numbers, royalties can range from, say. $500–2000 for a \"festival-use license\" to $250,000 or more for a movie film score. For low-budget films, which are deemed less than $2 million, the royalties range from 3%–6% or could be per song per usage.\n\nIn the US, the Audio Home Recording Act became effective law in October 1992. The law enabled the release of recordable digital formats such as Sony and Philips' Digital Audio Tape without fear of contributory infringement lawsuits.\n\n\nArt Resale Royalty is a right to a royalty payment upon resales of art works, that applies in some jurisdictions. Whilst there are currently approximately 60 countries that have some sort of Resale Royalty on their statute books, evidence of resale schemes that can be said to be actually operating schemes is restricted to Europe, Australia and the American state of California. For example, in May 2011 the European commissions ec.europa webpage on Resale royalty stated that, under the heading 'Indicative list of third countries (Article 7.2)' :\n'A letter was sent to Member States on 1 March 2006 requesting that they provide a list of third countries which meet these requirements and that they also provide evidence of application. To date the Commission has not been supplied with evidence for any third country which demonstrates that they qualify for inclusion on this list.' [The emphasis is from the European commission web page.]\n\nApart from placing a levy on the resale of some art-like objects, there are few common facets to the various national schemes. Most schemes prescribe a minimum amount that the artwork must receive before the artist can invoke resale rights ( usually the hammer price or price). Some countries prescribe and others such as Australia, do not prescribe, the maximum royalty that can be received. Most do prescribe the calculation basis of the royalty. Some country's make the usage of the royalty compulsory. Some country's prescribe a sole monopoly collection service agency, while others like the UK and France, allow multiple agencies. Some schemes involve varying degrees of retrospective application and other schemes such as Australia's are not retrospective at all.\nIn some cases, for example Germany, an openly tax-like use is made of the \"royalties\"; Half of the money collected is redistributed to fund public programs.\n\nThe New Zealand and Canadian governments have not proceeded with any sort of artist resale scheme. The Australian scheme does not apply to the \"first\" resale of artworks purchased \"prior to the schemes enactment\"( June 2010) and individual usage of the right (by Australian artists) is not compulsory. In Australia artists have a case by case right (under clause 22/23 of the Act) to refuse consent to the usage of the right by the appointed collection society and/or make their own collection arrangements. Details of the Australian scheme can be gotten from the website of the sole appointed Australian agency; The \"Copyright Agency Limited\".\n\nThe UK scheme is in the context of common-law countries an oddity; No other common-law country has mandated an individual economic right where actual usage of the right is compulsory for the individual right holder. Whether the common law conception of an individual economic right as an \"individual right of control of usage\" is compatible with the Code Civil origins of \"droit de suite\" is open to question.\n\nThe UK is the largest art resale market where a form of ARR is operating, details of how the royalty is calculated as a portion of sale price in the UK can be accessed here DACS \nIn the UK, the scheme was, in early 2012, extended to all artists still in copyright. In most European jurisdictions the right has the same duration as the term of copyright. In California law, heirs receive royalty for 20 years.\n\nThe royalty applies to any work of graphic or plastic art such as a ceramic, collage, drawing, engraving, glassware, lithograph, painting, photograph, picture, print, sculpture, tapestry. However, a copy of a work is not to be regarded as a work unless the copy is one of a limited number made by the artist or under the artist's authority. In the UK the resale of a work bought directly from the artist and then resold within 3 years for a value of €10,000 or less is not affected by the royalty.\n\nThe situation as to how ARR applies in situations where an art work is physically made by a person or persons who are not the 'name artist' who first exhibits and sells the work is not clear. In particular whilst ARR is inalienable it seems conceivable that in cases where the copyright on an artwork is transferred/sold, prior to the first sale of an artwork, the inalienable ARR right is also effectively sold transferred.\n\nWhether resale royalties are of net economic benefit to artists is a highly contested area. Many economic studies have seriously questioned the assumptions underlying the argument that resale royalties have net benefits to artists. Many modelings have suggested that resale royalties could be actually harmful to living artists' economic positions.\nAustralia's chief advocate for the adoption of artist resale royalties the collection society, Viscopy, commissioned in 2004 a report from Access Economics to model the likely impact of their scheme. In the resulting report, Access Economics warned that the claim of net benefit to artists was: \"based upon extremely unrealistic assumptions, in particular the assumption that seller and buyer behaviour would be completely unaffected by the introduction of RRR [ARR]\" and that, \"Access Economics considers that the results of this analysis are both unhelpful and potentially misleading.\"\n\nThere is simply too much computer software to consider the royalties applicable to each. The following is a guide to royalty rates:\n\nFor the development of customer-specific software one will have to consider:\n\nThe term \"royalty\" also covers areas outside of IP and technology licensing, such as oil, gas, and mineral royalties paid to the owner of a property by a resources development company in exchange for the right to exploit the resource. In a business project the promoter, financier, LHS enabled the transaction but are no longer actively interested may have a royalty right to a portion of the income, or profits, of the business. This sort of royalty is often expressed as a contract right to receive money based on a royalty formula, rather than an actual ownership interest in the business. In some businesses this sort of royalty is sometimes called an \"override\".\n\nRoyalties may exist in technological alliances and partnerships. The latter is more than mere access to secret technical or a trade right to accomplish an objective. It is, in the last decade of the past century, and the first of this one of the major means of technology transfer. Its importance for the licensor and the licensee lies in its access to markets and raw materials, and labor, when the international trend is towards globalization.\n\nThere are three main groups when it comes to technological alliances. They are Joint-ventures (sometimes abbreviated JV), the Franchises and Strategic Alliances (SA).\n\nJoint-ventures are usually between companies long in contact with a purpose. JVs are very formal forms of association, and depending on the country where they are situated, subject to a rigid code of rules, in which the public may or may not have an opportunity to participate in capital; partly depending on the size of capital required, and partly on Governmental regulations. They usually revolve around \"products\" and normally involve an inventive step.\n\nFranchises revolve around \"services\" and they are closely connected with trademarks, an example of which is McDonald's. Although franchises have no convention like trademarks or copyrights they can be mistaken as a trademark-copyright in agreements. The franchisor has close control over the franchisee, which, in legal terms cannot be tie-ins such as frachisee located in an areas owned by the franchisor.\n\nStrategic Alliances can involve a project (such as bridge building). a product or a service. As the name implies, is more a matter of 'marriage of convenience' when two parties want to associate to take up a particular (but modest) short-term task but generally are uncomfortable with the other. But the strategic alliance could be a test of compatibility for the forming of a joint venture company and a precedent step.\n\nNote that all of these ventures s could be in a third county. JVs and franchises are rarely found formed within a county. They largely involve third countries.\n\nOn occasion, a JV or SA may be wholly oriented to research and development, typically involving multiple organizations working on an agreed form of engagement. The Airbus is an example of such.\n\nFirms in developing countries often are asked by the supplier of know-how or patent licensing to consider technical service (TS) and technical assistance (TA) as elements of the technology transfer process and to pay \"royalty\" on them. TS and TA are associated with the IP (intellectual property) transferred – and, sometimes, dependent on its acquisition – but they are, by no means, IP. TA and TS may also be the sole part of the transfer or the tranferor of the IP, their concurrent supplier. They are seldom met with in the developed countries, which sometimes view even know-how as similar to TS.\n\nTS comprises services which are the specialized knowledge of firms or acquired by them for operating a special process. It is often a \"bundle\" of services which can by itself meet an objective or help in meeting it. It is delivered over time, at end of which the acquirer becomes proficient to be independent of the service. In this process, no consideration is given on whether the transfer of the proprietary element has been concluded or not.\n\nOn the other hand, technical assistance is a package of assistance given on a short timetable. It can range variously from procurement of equipment for a project, inspection services on behalf of the buyer, the training of buyer's personnel and the supply technical or managerial staff. Again, TA is independent of IP services.\n\nThe payment for these services is a fee, not a royalty. The TS fee is dependent on how many of the specialized staff of its supplier are required and over what period of time. Sometimes, the \"learning\" capacity to whom the TS is supplied is involved. In any case, the cost per service-hour should be calculated and evaluated. Note that in selecting a TS supplier (often the IP supplier), experience and dependency are critical.\n\nIn the case of TA there is usually a plurality of firms and choice is feasible.\n\nThe rate of royalty applied in a given case is determined by various factors, the most notable of which are:\n\nTo correctly gauge royalty rates, the following criteria must be taken into consideration:\n\nThere are three general approaches to assess the applicable royalty rate in the licensing of intellectual property. They are\n\n\nFor a fair evaluation of the royalty rate, the relationship of the parties to the contract should:\n\nThe Cost Approach considers the several elements of cost that may have been entered to create the intellectual property and to seek a royalty rate that will recapture the expense of its development and obtain a return that is commensurate with its expected life. Costs considered could include R&D expenditures, pilot-plant and test-marketing costs, technology upgrading expenses, patent application expenditure and the like.\n\nThe method has limited utility since the technology is not priced competitively on \"what the market can bear\" principles or in the context of the price of similar technologies. More importantly, by lacking optimization (through additional expense), it may earn benefits below its potential.\n\nHowever, the method may be appropriate when a technology is licensed out during its R&D phase as happens with venture capital investments or it is licensed out during one of the stages of clinical trials of a pharmaceutical.\n\nIn the former case, the venture capitalist obtains an equity position in the company (developing the technology) in exchange for financing a part of the development cost (recovering it, and obtaining an appropriate margin, when the company gets acquired or it goes public through the IPO route).\n\nRecovery of costs, with opportunity of gain, is also feasible when development can be followed stage-wise as shown below for a pharmaceutical undergoing clinical trials (the licensee pays higher royalties for the product as it moves through the normal stages of its development):\n\nA similar approach is used when custom software is licensed (an in-license, i.e. an incoming license). The product is accepted on a royalty schedule depending on the software meeting set stage-wise specifications with acceptable error levels in performance tests.\n\nHere the cost and the risk of development are disregarded. The royalty rate is determined from comparing competing or similar technologies in an industry, modified by considerations of useful \"remaining life\" of the technology in that industry and contracting elements such as exclusivity provisions, front-end royalties, field of use restrictions, geographic limitations and the \"technology bundle\" (the mix of patents, know-how, trade-mark rights, etc.) accompanying it. Economist J. Gregory Sidak explains that comparable licenses, when selected correctly, \"reveal what the licensor and the licensee consider to be fair compensation for the use of the patented technology\" and thus \"will most accurately depict the price that a licensee would willingly pay for that technology.\" The Federal Circuit has on numerous occasions confirmed that the comparable market approach is a reliable methodology to calculate a reasonable royalty.\n\nAlthough widely used, the prime difficulty with this method is obtaining access to data on comparable technologies and the terms of the agreements that incorporate them. Fortunately, there are several recognized organizations (see \"Royalty Rate Websites\" listed at the end of this article) who have comprehensive information on both royalty rates and the principal terms of the agreements of which they are a part. There are also IP-related organizations, such as the Licensing Executives Society, which enable its members to access and share privately assembled data.\n\nThe two tables shown below are drawn, selectively, from information that is available with an IP-related organization and on-line. The first depicts the range and distribution of royalty rates in agreements. The second shows the royalty rate ranges in select technology sectors (latter data sourced from: Dan McGavock of IPC Group, Chicago, USA).\n\nCommercial sources also provide information that is invaluable for making comparisons. The following table provides typical information that is obtainable, for instance, from Royaltystat:\n\nCoverage : \n\nThe comparability between transactions requires a comparison of the significant economic conditions that may affect the contracting parties:\n\nThe Income approach focuses on the licensor estimating the profits generated by the licensee and obtaining an appropriate share of the generated profit. It is unrelated to costs of technology development or the costs of competing technologies.\n\nThe approach requires the licensee (or licensor): (a) to generate a cash-flow projection of incomes and expenses over the life-span of the license under an agreed scenario of incomes and costs (b) determining the Net Present Value, NPV of the profit stream, based on a \"selected\" discount factor, and c) negotiating the division of such profit between the licensor and the licensee.\n\nThe NPV of a future income is always lower than its current value because an income in the future is attended by risk. In other words, an income in the future needs to be discounted, in some manner, to obtain its present equivalent. The factor by which a future income is reduced is known as the 'discount rate'. Thus, $1.00 received a year from now is worth $0.9091 at a 10% discount rate, and its discounted value will be still lower two years down the line.\n\nThe actual discount factor used depends on the risk assumed by the principal gainer in the transaction. For instance, a mature technology worked in different geographies, will carry a lower risk of non-performance (thus, a lower discount rate) than a technology being applied for the first time. A similar situation arises when there is the option of working the technology in one of two different regions; the risk elements in each region would be different.\n\nThe method is treated in greater detail, using illustrative data, in Royalty Assessment.\n\nThe licensor's share of the income is usually set by the \"25% rule of thumb\", which is said to be even used by tax authorities in the US and Europe for arms-length transactions. The share is on the operating profit of the licensee firm. Even where such division is held contentious, the rule can still be the starting point of negotiations.\n\nFollowing are three aspects that are important for the profit:\n\nThe basic advantage of this approach, which is perhaps the most widely applied, is that the royalty rate can be negotiated without comparative data on how other agreements have been transacted. In fact, it is almost ideal for a case where precedent does not exist.\n\nIt is, perhaps, relevant to note that the IRS also uses these three methods, in modified form, to assess the attributable income, or division of income, from a royalty-based transaction between a US company and its foreign subsidiary (since US law requires that a foreign subsidiary pay an appropriate royalty to the parent company).\n\nRoyalties are only one among many ways of compensating owners for use of an asset. Others include:\n\nIn discussing the licensing of Intellectual Property, the terms \"valuation\" and \"evaluation\" need to be understood in their rigorous terms.\nEvaluation is the process of assessing a license in terms of the specific metrics of a particular negotiation, which may include its circumstances, the geographical spread of licensed rights, product range, market width, licensee competitiveness, growth prospects, etc.\n\nOn the other hand, valuation is the fair market value (FMV) of the \"asset\" – trademark, patent or know-how – at which it can be sold between a willing buyer and willing seller in the context of best awareness of circumstances. The FMV of the IP, where assessable, may itself be a metric for evaluation.\n\nIf an emerging company is listed on the stock market, the market value of its intellectual property can be estimated from the data of the balance sheet using the equivalence:\n\nMarket Capitalization = Net Working Capital + Net Fixed Assets + Routine Intangible Assets + IP\n\nwhere the IP is the residual after deducting the other components from the market valuation of the stock. One of the most significant intangibles may be the work-force.\n\nThe method may be quite useful for valuing trademarks of a listed company if it is mainly or the only IP in play (franchising companies).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48756333", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48756333", "title": "Samepage", "text": "Samepage\n\nSamepage is a collaboration software platform for online teams, offering collaborative tools such as online chat, Videotelephony, task management, file sharing, and real-time document collaboration.\n\nSamepage, previously a division of Kerio Technologies, who developed early versions of the platform under the name of Kerio Workspace, was officially launched in 2013. Before 2013, the platform was only available as a completely on-premises server software package. In 2013, it was completely retooled as a cloud-hosted Software as a Service platform.\n\nIn 2014, Samepage offered its users integration with other web platforms such as Zapier, Dropbox, Box, Google Drive, OneDrive, Vimeo, YouTube, and Google Maps. In 2015, Samepage announced their partnership with Startup Grind. Shortly afterward, Samepage was named as one of only three Hot Vendors in Content and Collaboration by Aragon Research and announced their partnership with Regus.\n\nNow as a standalone platform, Samepage is ranked 260th in US startups by Startupranking.com. Samepage has been reviewed throughout its development by Tech Republic, Macworld, and IT World Canada.\n\nIn 2017, Entrepreneurs' Organization announced a global partnership with Samepage, designating Samepage as their officially endorsed collaboration tool. \n\nIn June 2018, Samepage secured seed financing from Reflex Capital. \n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42987753", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42987753", "title": "Sergio P. Corpus", "text": "Sergio P. Corpus\n\nSergio P. Corpus (9 September 1913 – 17 February 2004) was a Filipino businessman who became a Chairman and President of some insurance companies, a co-founder of an insurance association and the head of an insurance institute.\n\nHe was the son of Rafael Corpus who represented Zambales as an Assemblyman in the Third Philippine Legislature (1912-1916). He was married to Clara Oben with whom he had four children—Maria Cristina Teresita, Antonio Maria, Maria Clara Veronica and Luis Maria.\n\nCorpus finished high school at the Ateneo de Manila University in 1932. He graduated with a Bachelor of Science in Commerce degree at the De La Salle University in 1935. In his senior year, he was Editor in Chief of THE LASALLITE, the school organ, and Captain of the Senior Varsity Basketball team. He graduated with a Master of Arts degree at the Ateneo de Manila University in 1955.\n\nCorpus was one of the founders of the Management Association of the Philippines and was its second President in 1952. He was a co-founder of the Philippine Insurers Club on January 12, 1952 and was its first President.\n\nHe was Chairman and President of Empire Insurance Company from 1997 to 1999 and was its Chairman from 1999 to 2004. He was the Chairman and President of the Rizal-Empire Insurance Group from 1974 to 1996. He was an original Director of Philippine Prudential Life Insurance Co., Inc.\n\nHe was the Vice-Chairman of the Insurance Institute for Asia and the Pacific from 1978 to 1987, its President from 1989 to 1991 and its Chairman from 1991 to 1994.\n\nHe was the Dean of the Ateneo Graduate School of Economics and Business Administration from 1960 to 1966. He was the Dean of the Ateneo Graduate School of Business from 1969 to 1973.\n\nCorpus was a co-founder of the First Friday Club and was the Chairman of the Clara O. Corpus Foundation, Inc. from 2001 to 2003.\n\nHe died on February 17, 2004.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20038219", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20038219", "title": "SigFig (company)", "text": "SigFig (company)\n\nSigFig (formerly Wikinvest) is an investment portal that uses the wiki format. It is available online and via an app. Wikinvest was also a winner in the 2008 SXSW Interactive Web Awards.\n\nWikinvest was founded in 2006 by Parker Conrad and Michael Sha. As of November 2008, the site covered over 1800 companies and over 180 economic issues, and had around 1400 contributors. \n\nWikinvest also provided a syndication service for financial bloggers, the Wikinvest Wire. Additionally, the site's WikiCharts feature allowed financial charts to be annotated as well as embedded in other websites.\n\nContributions fell under two main categories, \"companies\" and \"concepts\". The former offered financial and business analysis on individual corporations, whereas the latter examined trends in broader economic issues. In addition to being an information resource for the public, the site's financial analysis has also been cited in mainstream business publications such as the \"Wall Street Journal\".\n\nIn May 2012, Wikinvest announced that it would be a portfolio tracking and investment adviser referral service with a new name, SigFig.\n\nAs of 2 June 2012, Wikinvest had 400,000 users. Parker Conrad and Michael Sha said that Wikinvest would eventually be phased out.\n\nAs of November, 2015, the Wikinvest website continues to work, but the mobile apps no longer function. Accounts are now mirrored to SigFig.com with the same username and password as the Wikinvest website, but with new, additional features available.\n\n"}
{"id": "15605917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15605917", "title": "Timur Kulibayev", "text": "Timur Kulibayev\n\nTimur Asqaruly Kulibayev (also Qulybaev; ; , born 10 September 1966) is a Kazakhstani business oligarch and son-in-law of Kazakh president Nursultan Nazarbayev. Kulibayev has held several positions in important state-owned enterprises that manage Kazakhstan's natural resources, and has immense influence over the country's hydrocarbon industry.\n\nHe is the former Chairman of the Management Board of Samruk-Kazyna National Welfare Fund and a member of the Board of Directors of the Gazprom company. As of October 2017, he was listed as the third richest man in Kazakhstan and the 973rd richest in the world with a fortune of $2.3 billion. Kulibayev has been called \"the most important business figure in the resource-rich\" Republic of Kazakhstan by The Daily Telegraph.\n\nKulibayev was born on 10 September 1966 in Alma-Ata (now Almaty), Kazakh SSR, USSR. In 1988, he graduated from Lomonosov Moscow State University, majoring in \"National Economy Planning\", making him an economist by profession. He has a Ph.D. in Economics, and defended a thesis on: \"Improvement of Organizational and Economic Mechanism of Enterprise Management in Market Environment (based on the oil industry)\" (1999). He has a number of research publications. He speaks fluent Kazakh, Russian and English.\n\nFrom 1988 to 1992, he worked as an economist. He was a junior research assistant at the Scientific-Research Economics Institute of Planning and Normative Standards (SREIP&NS) under the State Plan of Kazakh Soviet Socialist Republic, and was a director of the Scientific-Consulting Center of the Fund of Cultural, Social, Scientific and Technological Development of Kazakhstan.\n\nIn 1990, he was the director of the Research and Consultative Center under the Fund for Cultural, Social and Technological Development in Kazakhstan. He headed Altyn-Alma and was Chairman of the Supervisory Board of Almaty Trade and Industry Bank. In 1997 he was appointed as the head of the Directorate for Project Assessment and Negotiating under the Investment Committee of Kazakhstan (exercising rights of the Deputy Chairman).\n\nFrom May 1997 until March 1999, he was the Vice-President on Economy and Finance of CJSC National Oil and Gas Company Kazkhoil. In March 1999 he became the President of CJSC National Company for Oil Transportation KazTransOil. From May 2001 till February 2002 he was the General Director of CJSC National Company Oil and Gas Transportation (created on the basis of KazTransOil and KazTransGas). From February 2002 until October 2005 he was the First Vice-President of JSC NC KazMunayGas, a merger of CJSC NC KazakhOil and CJSC NC Oil and Gas Transportation.\n\nAfter his resignation from the post in KazMunaiGas, he has initiated foundation and headed the Association of Legal Entities Kazakhstan Association of Oil, Gas and Energy Sector Organizations KAZENERGY that united major national and foreign companies, operating in the energy sector of Kazakhstan. At the same time he became part-time Adviser to the President of the Republic of Kazakhstan. In 2005-06 and 2007-08 he combined a public activity with a direct management of his own private business.\n\nFrom April 2006 till August 2007, he was the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of JSC Kazakhstan Holding Company for State Assets Management Samruk. Simultaneously he was the Chairman of Board of Directors of JSC KEGOC and NC KazMunaiGas. In October 2008 he became the Deputy Chairman of the Management Board of JSC National Welfare Fund Samruk-Kazyna. He is Chairman of the Boards of Directors of JSC Kazatomprom, JSC NC KazMunayGas, JSC NC Kazakhstan TemirZholy, JSC Kazakhstan Company on Power Grid Management (KEGOC), JSC Samruk-Energo.\n\nBy decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan #409, on 12 April 2011, he was appointed to the post of the Chairman of the Management Board of JSC NWF Samruk-Kazyna. Based on the voting results by Decree of the Government of the Republic of Kazakhstan #410 of 12 April 2011, he was elected to the membership of the Board of Directors. The election of T.A. Kulibayev to the Board of Directors of the Russian largest energy company shows the particular importance of economic cooperation between Kazakhstan and the Russian Federation, as well as a recognition of high professional qualities of the Chief Executive of Samruk-Kazyna Fund.\n\nOn 26 December 2011, Kulibayev resigned from the post of Chairman of the Board of Samruk-Kazyna.\n\nSince June 2008, he has been Chairman of the Kazakhstan National Committee of the World Petroleum Council.\n\nPublic activities:\n\nSince 2004 – honorary member of the Council of Federation of the Republican Public\nAssociation “National Federation of Golf of RoK”.\n\nSince 2008 – chairman of Kazakhstan National Committee of World Petroleum Council.\n\nSince 2009 – president of Kazakhstan Boxing Federation.\n\nSince 2010 – a member of the Executive Committee of the National Olympic Committee of\nRoK.\n\nSince 2011 – chairman of the Board of Trustees of “Arystan” specialized lyceum\n(Talgar town);\n\nSince 2012 –vice-president, a member of the Executive Committee of International\nBoxing Association (AIBA).\n\nSince 2012 – chairman of Kazakhstan Confederation of Сombat and Strength Sports.\n\nSince 2014 – a member of the National Olympic Committee.\n\nSince 2014 – chairman of Multi-Sport Games of “SportAccord” International Convention.\n\nSince 2015 – president of the National Olympic\nCommittee of RoK.\n\nSince 2016 - Vice President (Central Asia) of the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA)\n\nHe is married to Dinara Nursultanovna (\"née\" Nazarbayeva), daughter of Kazakhstan's long-time president Nursultan Nazarbayev. They have three children: a son Altay, and daughters Deniza and Alishya. He has an additional two natural children with entrepreneur and socialite Goga Ashkenazi, both sons: Adam, born in 2007, and Alan, born in 2012.\n\nKulibayev is an avid fan of sports, especially golf, and often competes in golf tournaments. He is president of Kazakhstani Boxing Federation.\n\nAwards of the Republic of Kazakhstan: \nAwards of the Russian Federation:\n\n"}
{"id": "1221952", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1221952", "title": "Tiong Hiew King", "text": "Tiong Hiew King\n\nTan Sri Datuk Tiong Hiew King (; born 1935) is the Malaysian Chinese founder and chairman of the Rimbunan Hijau Group, a timber company founded in 1975. Its overseas timber operations in Papua New Guinea is the largest in that country. He also has interests in logging operations in Russia.\n\nTan Sri Datuk Tiong resides in Sibu, a town in Sarawak, of Borneo island that is part of Malaysia. , with a net worth of about US$1.1 billion, Tiong is ranked by Forbes as the 1,999th richest person in the world. In April 2017, Tiong’s family confirmed that he was hospitalized after suffering a stroke.\n\nTiong's Rimbunan Hijau Group operates \"Sin Chew Daily\" and \"Guang Ming Daily\", two of the major Chinese national dailies in Malaysia. They also operate \"The National Daily\" in Papua New Guinea and Ming Pao Holdings Ltd in Hong Kong. He is forging a global Chinese publishing group with his Ming Pao Enterprises; \"Ming Pao\" newspaper is also available in San Francisco, New York, Vancouver and Toronto.\n\nMedia Chinese International Limited (MCIL) is the holding company for all Tiong’s media assets formed after the merger of Ming Pao Enterprise Corporation Limited, Sin Chew Media Corporation Berhad and Nanyang Press Holdings Berhad.\n\nIn 2018, Tiong stepped down from the position of executive chairman of MCIL to take up a non-executive, non-independent directorship in the group.\n\nBack home in Sibu, Tiong and his family are members of the ruling Sarawak United People's Party (SUPP), a major party of the ruling coalition government in Sarawak. Tiong's younger brother Tiong Thai King has been the Member of Parliament of the Lanang Parliamentary Constituency in Sibu from 1995 to 2013.\n\nIn 2009, Tiong was declared a Knight Commander of the Most Excellent order of the British Empire (KBE). Following his knighting Environmental groups around the world called for him to be stripped of his title, claiming that his success was built on the destruction of tropical forests by his company, Rimbunan Hijau.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "36374916", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36374916", "title": "Tony Banks (businessman)", "text": "Tony Banks (businessman)\n\nTony Banks is a Falklands veteran and entrepreneur. He was chairman and founder of Balhousie Care Group, Scotland's largest private residential care home provider. He was a key figure in Business for Scotland and vocal supporter of Scottish Independence.\n\nBorn 23 October 1961, Banks grew up in Dundee. Banks' father was an RAF logistics sergeant and his mother was a housewife.\nHis first job was working as a newspaper delivery boy. He also worked as a refuse collector, a shelf stacker, an electrician's assistant and a raspberry picker before leaving school at 17 to study accountancy at the University of Abertay.\n\nAt University in Abertay Banks joined the Territorial Army Parachute Regiment, subsequently he abandoned his studies to pursue a full-time career in the Army. In 1982, he was sent to serve in the Falklands War as part of 2nd Battalion, Parachute Regiment (2 Para). His regiment was the first battalion to land and the first to win a major battle. Banks fought at the Battle of Goose Green and during the conflict witnessed the death of one of his closest friends. \nAfter the end of the Falklands War, Banks served with the Parachute Field Ambulance service before becoming an insurance salesman. He later moved back to Scotland where he founded the Balhousie Care Group.\nBanks bought his first care home in 1991, Balhousie Lisden in Kirriemuir, Angus. He did so as a result of wanting a career change from life assurance sales. The Balhousie Care Group is Scotland's largest private care home provider, made up of 27 care homes, employing over 1000 people.\n\nHe is Honorary Colonel of the Territorial Army's 71 Engineer Regiment (Volunteers).\n\nIn 2013 he launched a new website where people who lived through World War II can upload their personal accounts of the conflict. Residents at some of Balhousie Care Group's homes have been among the first to appear on Banks' World War II Video Memories site.\n\nIn 2009, Banks appeared on the sixth series of Channel 4's The Secret Millionaire in which he spent some time living on a poor estate in Anfield getting to know some of the local residents. During the programme he donated money to people he had met. He has subsequently donated to organisations that he got to know while filming, including Daisy UK, a Liverpool-based organisation headed up by Dave Kelly.\n\nIn 2010, the BBC filmed a documentary entitled 'From War to Peace', in which a film crew followed Banks on a journey to Argentina. Banks had left the Falklands with a war trophy which he had kept for 28 years – a trumpet taken from an Argentinean prisoner of war named Omar Tabarez. \nWith the help of a journalist who tracked down Tabarez, Banks visited him at his home in Argentina to hand back the trumpet.\nIn March 2012, Banks released \"Storming the Falklands: My War and After\", which charts his experiences in war, how he struggled for years with combat-related stress, and how he has just recently managed to come to terms with his experiences.\n\nBanks currently serves on the board of the Scottish Entrepreneurial Exchange. He is one of James Caan's Millionaire Mentors for the Entrepreneurs' Business Academy. In 2011 Banks was one of 12 recipients in Scotland of the Ernst & Young Entrepreneur of the Year award. \nHe was also a finalist for Fundraiser of the year 2011 at the Daily Record Hero Annual Awards. Banks is a significant donor to Combat Stress and The Stroke Association.\n\nBalhousie Care Group also supports the Memory Box Network, a charity which aims to use online reminiscence therapy to increase the quality of life of those who live with dementia. The team is developing a website where users can view and upload content which will act as a talking point between the person with dementia and their carers and loved ones.\n\nBanks was a founder and board member of Business for Scotland and supports Scottish Independence.\n\nIn January 2016 Banks appeared in court, charged with domestic assault. He was alleged to have carried out an assault on his partner, Kimberley Anderson. During the trial on 22 March 2016, Anderson recanted her testimony, stating she had lied to the officers who took her statement. The Crown withdrew their intention to prosecute, resulting in Banks being cleared.\n"}
{"id": "9660732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9660732", "title": "Tony Pua", "text": "Tony Pua\n\nTony Pua Kiam Wee (; born 1 August 1972) is a Malaysian politician, currently the Member of Parliament for Damansara and the Political Secretary to the Minister of Finance. Pua is the former Malaysian CEO of Cyber Village Sdn Bhd, a SESDAQ (SGX second board)-listed company. In early 2007, he disposed of all his interests in the company and tendered his resignation to join the Democratic Action Party (DAP) in 2008.\n\nPua graduated from Keble College, Oxford with a degree in Philosophy, Politics and Economics under a scholarship from the MTC Foundation in 1994. Prior to that, he received Asean and Shaw Foundation scholarships to pursue his O- and A-Levels in Raffles Institution and Raffles Junior College, in Singapore.\n\nIn the 2008 general election, Pua won the Parliamentary constituency of Petaling Jaya Utara on a DAP ticket. He ran against the incumbent, Datin Paduka Chew Mei Fun, Parliamentary Secretary to the Ministry for Women, Family & Community Affairs, and Deputy Chief of the Malaysian Chinese Association women's wing. In 2009, Pua was appointed the DAP member of the Pakatan Rakyat committee.\n\nPua retained his parliamentary seat in 2018 general election with a majority of 106,903, the largest majority in Malaysian history.\n\nTony Pua left home when he was 13 to do his secondary schooling in Singapore on an ASEAN scholarship from the Singapore government. He attended Raffles Institution and Raffles Junior College. He then went on to Oxford University where he studied PPE at Keble College on a MTC scholarship.\n\nPua worked for Andersen Consulting (now renamed Accenture) as a consultant after he graduated from Oxford. Two years later, in March 1997, he started Cyber Village when demand for e-business consultancy grew.\n\nWith his combined savings and those of his parents amounting to RM20,000 and another RM30,000 chipped in by three friends, he went ahead to open an office in Overseas Union Garden, Old Klang Road, KL with four staff.\n\nIn August 2001, Cyber Village became the first Multimedia Super Corridor (MSC)-status company to list on the Singapore Dealing and Automated Quotation System (Sesdaq). Its public offer of 400,000 shares drew an over-subscription of approximately 2.7 times. In January 2009, Cyber Village had successfully undergone a management buyout under the Koyo Group.\n\nOn 9 November 2008, Tony Pua was amongst the 23 arrested during a candlelight vigil in Petaling Jaya to commemorate the first anniversary of the Bersih street demonstration. Pua, along with Kampung Tunku state assemblyman, Lau Weng San, were allegedly manhandled by the police when they were arrested. Pua alleged that he was kicked, shoved and had his shirt torn by the Selangor police. Pua was released on police bail on the morning of 10 November 2008 and was later charged for illegal assembly.\n\nOn 10 August 2010, Tony Pua received a live 5.56mm bullet along with a threatening note posted from Tangkak, Johor. The bullet and the note were mailed to his constituency service centre in Damansara Utama. The note stated that Pua should watch out and that the whereabouts of his family, his house and his car were known.\n\nPua stated that the threat was perhaps related to his proposal to the Selangor government to slash Bumiputera discounts for homes and commercial property priced above RM 500,000 in the state, although he had also added that the 7% discounts enjoyed by Malays and other Bumiputeras should be retained for homes below RM 500,000.\n\nOn 28 January 2011, Syarikat Bekalan Air Selangor (SYABAS) filed a lawsuit against Tony Pua claiming that he had permitted Nanyang Siang Pau's Metro edition to publish words defamatory of it. The article had quoted him saying that if the water concessionaires could not settle their debts, the state government should take over the rights of management of water supply in Selangor. Syabas claimed that with the publication of the report in the newspaper, the company had been brought into public scandal and its image had been tarnished. Besides seeking an injunction to prevent Pua or his agents from publishing defamatory words against the company, Syabas was also seeking general damages and cost.\n\nPua argued that Syabas, as a public authority performing a public service, had no locus standi in making a defamation claim. He also said that he had a legal, moral and social duty as an MP and a member of the Selangor government Water Review Panel to publish those words as the public had a right to know. Pua also filed a counter-suit, claiming that Syabas' suit was frivolous, vexatious and amounted to an abuse of the court process, which resulted in him suffering losses and unnecessary harassment and expenses.\n\nOn 6 June 2012, the Malaysian High Court had found that SYABAS had succeeded in making its case against Pua for defamation ordered Tony Pua to pay RM200,000 in damages to SYABAS and awarded SYABAS interest at the rate of 4% per annum from the date of judgment till full payment and also costs. Justice Amelia Tee Hong Geok Abdullah also struck out Pua's counter-claim application and granted SYABAS an injunction to restrain Pua and his agents from further publishing or giving permission to be published \"similar defamatory words\" against SYABAS. The court found that \"whilst the plaintiff may be encountering cash flow issues, the court does not believe that it is looking to this case to replenish its coffers.\" Pua later stated on his blog that he maintains \"that the above statement is not defamatory, and will instruct my lawyers to file an appeal in the Court of Appeal.\"\n\nOn 7 July 2012, Pua posted on his blog that although an appeal was underway, he was required to pay the amount of RM200,000 to SYABAS by 16 July 2012. DAP Malaysia subsequently initiated \"RM1 for Water Rights: 100,000 Malaysians Support Tony Pua vs Syabas\" an online public mass fund-raising campaign, calling for 100,000 Malaysians to donate RM1 each to help Pua pay for the damages to SYABAS.\n\nHe subsequently won the Court of Appeal case. SYABAS appealed the decision to the Federal Court.\n\nIn the 2015 Federal Court case ([2015] 6 MLJ 187), Tony Pua won the appeal based on Lucas-Box principle by providing his own reasonable meaning to the impugned words. Justification defense was successfully raised by Tony Pua.\n\nThe Tiger that Lost its Roar, a tale of Malaysia's political economy.\n\nTony Pua suggested that the Bumiputera discount for housing and real estate must be abolished for houses above RM500,000. He said that he does not oppose affirmative actions. However, he disagrees with giving discounts on expensive houses such as those priced at RM 1 million or RM 2 million.\n\nIn one of his statements, Tony Pua said that the government should reduce the number of civil servants. However, his idea was rejected by PKR leader Anwar Ibrahim as not practical. Tony said that he only wants to see the government sector becoming more efficient with less cost.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28311134", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28311134", "title": "Unemployment extension", "text": "Unemployment extension\n\nUnemployment extension occurs when regular unemployment benefits are exhausted and extended for additional weeks. Unemployment extensions are created by passing new legislation at the federal level, often referred to as an \"unemployment extension bill.\" This new legislation is introduced and passed during times of high or above average unemployment rates. Unemployment extensions are set during a date range in order to estimate their federal cost. After expiration, the unemployment data is re-evaluated, and new legislation may be proposed and passed to further extend them.\n\nIn the United States, there is a standard of 26 weeks of unemployment benefits, known as \"regular unemployment insurance (UI) benefits.\" There are two programs for extending unemployment insurance (UI) benefits: Emergency Unemployment Compensation (EUC) and Extended Benefits (EB).\n\nThe unemployment insurance program is a great benefit for workers whom have lost their job. The maximum duration of benefits has increased from 26 to 99 weeks in some states. Unemployment extensions across the United States are a concern due to the lack of motivation in obtaining a job due to health issues. A solution to the problem would be to implement frequent processes to ensure the individual continues to stay actively applying as well as proper health routines are done. The benefits given are too long causing a lack in motivation to find a job and health issues that arise as a result of being laid off. Health issues include: anxiety, depression, joint problems, and low self-esteem. A solution to the problem would be to require routine health checkups to individuals receiving the unemployment benefits. Another solution would be to provide seminars that help motivate individuals and keep them prepared when actively applying for jobs to avoid the benefits extension that would lead to underlying health issues. Providing unemployed individuals with the proper tools and resources will help with the unemployment rate and the need for extending unemployment benefits in the United States.\n\nEUC is a 100% federally funded program that provides benefits to individuals who have exhausted regular state benefits. The EUC program was created on June 30, 2008, and has been modified several times. Most recently, the American Taxpayer Relief Act of 2012 (P.L. 112-240) extended the expiration date of the EUC program to January 1, 2014. To date, Congress has not passed any further extensions.\n\n\"EUC has four levels: Tiers 1, 2, 3 and 4.\"\n\nEUC08, or Emergency Unemployment Compensation 2008, is an extension of unemployment benefits authorized under Federal law. The Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 (enacted on Feb 22, 2012) modified EUC08.\n\nClaimants who filed an initial claim effective on or after May 7, 2006 are potentially eligible for EUC08. Individuals who are monetarily ineligible when a new benefit year is filed may qualify for EUC08 on the basis of a previous claim.\n\n\nExtended Benefits are available to workers who have exhausted regular unemployment insurance benefits during periods of high unemployment. The basic Extended Benefits program provides up to 13 additional weeks of benefits when a State is experiencing high unemployment. Some States have also enacted a voluntary program to pay up to 7 additional weeks (20 weeks maximum) of Extended Benefits during periods of extremely high unemployment.\n\nIn addition to individuals who exhausted all rights to benefits after the original date of enactment, the EUC law includes what is commonly referred to as a reachback provision. A reachback provision makes eligible those individuals who exhausted all rights to benefits prior to the original date of enactment (back to a specified date). The EUC law makes eligible all individuals whose benefit year ending date is on or after May 1, 2007. Practically speaking, this means some individuals receiving EUC may have become unemployed as early as May 2006.\n\n\n"}
