{"id": "8954251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8954251", "title": "Alison Maclean", "text": "Alison Maclean\n\nAlison Maclean (born July 31, 1958) is a Canadian film director of music videos, short films, television (episodes of \"Sex and the City\", \"The Tudors\", \"\"), commercials and feature films. Her works include the music video \"Torn\" (Natalie Imbruglia, 1998), the short film \"Kitchen Sink\" (1989) and the feature films \"Jesus' Son\" (1999) (starring Billy Crudup) and \"Crush\" (1992) (starring Marcia Gay Harden).\n\nMaclean was born in Ottawa, Ontario, Canada, to New Zealand-born parents, and immigrated to New Zealand with her parents as a teenager, later graduating from the Elam School of Fine Arts, Auckland, in film and sculpture.\n\nHer first short film, \"Kitchen Sink\", a surreal suburban nightmare, debuted in Cannes in 1989 and won eight international awards. Maclean moved to New York in 1992. Her film \"Crush\" was entered into the 1992 Cannes Film Festival. After several years developing projects she got her second feature, \"Jesus' Son\" (1999), starring Billy Crudup and Samantha Morton (with Holly Hunter, Dennis Hopper, Denis Leary and Jack Black in supporting roles). The film is based on the short story collection by cult US writer Denis Johnson.\n\nShe is represented by Park Pictures in New York.\n\nIn association with Scenarios USA, Alison Maclean is directing the winner of New York \"What's the REAL DEAL\" contest for 12- to 22-year-olds,\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26195031", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26195031", "title": "Allegories (Bellini)", "text": "Allegories (Bellini)\n\nThe Four Allegories is a series of four small panel paintings in the Gallerie dell'Accademia, Venice, Italy by the Italian Renaissance master Giovanni Bellini, whose date has been variously argued as different points in the range 1490–1504. They all measure 34 (\"Perseverance\") or 32 × 22 cm in size.\n\nOriginally, the four panels probably decorated a small bathroom cabinet in walnut wood, provided with a mirror and rack, owned by the painter Vincenzo Catena. In his will, he left the cabinet to Antonio Marsili. At the time, these cabinets were rather widespread, and a decree issued by the Venetian Senate in 1489 had attempted to limit their construction. They were often decorated by symbolic figures with moral symbolism.\n\nThe panels constitute a rare item in Bellini's production, though they have been usually compared to his \"Holy Allegory\" in the Uffizi, and the Accademia has another such panel by Bellini or possibly Andrea Previtali, an allegory of \"Fortune\" (27 × 19 cm) from a different origin. \n\n\"Perseverance\" shows a virtuous warrior to whom Bacchus is offering fruit from a wagon pulled by puttoes. It has been described also as an allegory of lust. The \"Fortune\", or \"Inconstancy\", shows a woman on an unstable boat, surrounded by puttoes, holding a sphere. The \"Prudence\" depicts a naked woman pointing out a mirror; it has been differently interpreted as \"Vanity\" also.\n\n\"Falsehood\" shows a man (different from the usual representation as a woman) exiting a shell, symbol of crookedness of lies. Armed with a snake (symbol of calumny), he is assailing what resembles a hermit, who is setting for the wisdom path from a pedestal, where is also the artist's signature. This figure has been also interpreted as the \"Virtus Sapientia\" (\"virtue of the wisdom\"), the shell being a positive symbol of generation.\n\n"}
{"id": "13134912", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13134912", "title": "Alphabet book", "text": "Alphabet book\n\nAn alphabet book is a book primarily designed for young children. It presents letters of the alphabet with corresponding words and/or images. Some alphabet books feature capitals and lower case letter forms, keywords beginning with specific letters, or illustrations of keywords. Alphabet books may consist of sentences, paragraphs, or entire pages highlighting letters and corresponding keywords in a variety of creative and imaginative formats.\n\nAlphabet books introduce the sounds and letters of the ordered alphabet. These books provide a non-threatening genre in which children engage in a variety of both fiction and non-fiction texts. Alphabet books provide opportunities for:\n\n\nThe oldest alphabet book known is Thomas Petyt’s \"The BAC Bothe in Latyn and in Englysshe\" (1538). The first alphabet book to be accompanied by pictures is John Hart’s \"A Methode; or, Comfortable Beginning for All Unlearned\" (1570). \n\nThe hornbook, a form of ABC book, was common by Shakespeare's day. It consisted of a piece of parchment or paper pasted on a wooden board and protected by a leaf of horn. Hornbooks displayed letters of the alphabet, a syllabary and prayers for novice readers. Andrew Tuer described a typical hornbook with a line separating the lower case and capital letters from the syllabary. This syllabarium or syllabary, likely added to the hornbook in 1596, taught pronunciations of vowel and consonant combinations.\nThese syllables are possible ancestors to the modern instructional practice of new readers working with onsets and rimes in word families. From the first hornbook, the alphabet format cemented the learning progression from syllables to words.\n\nAn example of the reliance on the alphabet for reading instruction is found in John Bunyan's, \"A Book for Boys and Girls, or Country Rhymes for Children.\"\nAs referenced in this verse, it was an expectation of the period that “babes” began as readers with knowledge of the alphabet. Armed with the letters of the alphabet from the hornbook, children encountered other early forms of reading materials.\n\nThe child’s alphabet book is considered one of the oldest literary genres of American literature.\n\nThe battledore was an instrument like a small racket, used for playing badminton. The term was applied to the wooden or cardboard tablets, which gradually replaced the hornbook as a device for teaching children to read. The wording printed on them varied greatly, but usually featured an alphabet, and, unlike the hornbook, entertainment was provided as well as instruction in the form of illustrations. They first appeared in the 1750s and were produced until the middle of the nineteenth century. The battledore was a more complex type of horn book printed on thick paper folded in three parts containing enlarged text with word to object illustrations for each of the capital letters bordering the four sides. The letter-word associations provide insight into eighteenth century religious and sociocultural priorities.\n\nTuer's \"Royal Battledore\" illustrated the lower case alphabet letters with a for Apple; j, k, q, and x for Judge, King, Queen and Xerxes; m for Mouse and z for Zany jester. In fact, some battledores' upper and lower borders contained this rhyme:\n\nThere is evidence of a gradual shift to more secular topics for general reading instruction from predominantly religious material.\n\nExperienced with both hornbooks and battledores, children graduated on to the modern concept of a small book, multiple paper pages covered with a thick, protective layer. Early reading booklets or religious primers contained both the alphabet and increasingly complicated lists of alphabetized syllables along with selected excerpts from the Bible. From tablet to booklet, the ABC format served as the most common framework for additional reading materials. The first church primers paralleled the introduction of school textbooks known as “the ABC”. Both colonial primers and ABC spellers employed the alphabet as an organizational feature for literacy instruction and spiritual study.\n\nOriginally imported from England, children’s reading textbooks aligned with the educational emphasis on the alphabet. While students were first trained to recite the alphabet, moralistic readings were framed around the letters of the alphabet. During the American colonial period the more secular “ABC” spellers quickly fell out of favor in comparison with the more religious primers; nevertheless, the alphabet remained the most systematic means of ordering the written contents of schoolbooks.\n\nDating back to 1683, the \"New England Primer\" contained rhyming couplets for each letter of the alphabet. These patterned rhymes were often supported by gloomy woodcut illustrations. The content of these paired lines varied from overwhelmingly religious to somewhat secular depending upon the particular version of the New England Primer.\n\nThe standard \"Primer\" beginning 'In Adam's fall, we sinned all' remained consistent throughout the numerous published texts; however, rhymes were occasionally edited for religious or political purposes, as demonstrated by the 1729 edition of the New England Primer. The passage, ‘our KING the good, No man of blood’ illustrated the letter K Due to the conflict with the English monarchy, The K couplet was altered and appeared in the revised 1777 edition as ‘Proud Korah's troop, was swallowed up.’ Similarly, in the same 1777 version, 'The dog will bite, a thief at night' was replaced by a Biblical reference. 'The deluge drowned the earth around’ was inserted for ‘the watchful dog’. Referring to mortal sin, the original U for 'Uriah's beauteous wife made David seek his life’ was censored by omitting U and skipping to V. The alphabet letters were used to teach the moral code aspired by society and religion.\n\nIn the \"New England Primer\", the couplets were followed by alphabetized Biblical sentences; the “Alphabet of Lessons for Youth” was designed for further reading practice and lifelong moral instruction. Both the 1777 and 1843 editions of the Primer maintained the same sentence excerpts from the Bible. The following are a few examples highlighting letters A, D, K and U:\n\nClearly, the immensely popular \"New England Primer\" continued to influence educational practice even beyond the revolutionary period. Of parallel longevity, the battledore continued to be published well into the 18th century. Believed to be the inventor of battledores in 1746, Benjamin Collins actually printed 100,000 copies between 1771 and 1780\n\nExemplifying the move away from strictly religious texts to more moral works, an outstanding example of the next generation of readers was the 1742 version of \"The Child’s New Plaything\". Sensitive to a youthful audience, the anonymous author introduced the alphabet with a lettered story about an appetizing apple pie.\n\nI wish I had a Piece of it now in my Hand.\n\nLater versions of the rhyme, now known as the Apple Pie ABC, became more elaborate and diversified.\n\nIn addition, \"The Child’s New Plaything\" contained the alphabet story, \"A was an Archer\", which was also to go through many later editions.\n\nToday there are many diverse kinds of alphabet books that captivate a reader’s interest through alliteration, onomatopoeia, creative narratives, poetry of all kinds, clever three-dimensional illusions, mysterious visual treasure hunts, humor, and curiosity. Electronic alphabet books are now on the market, with various animations and audio features. However, educators have criticised alphabet books for focusing on teaching the names of the letters, which often sound different from the sounds they produce, as interfering with the process of learning to read.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39146563", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39146563", "title": "Art and politics in post-2011 Tunisia", "text": "Art and politics in post-2011 Tunisia\n\nThe culture of Tunisia is thousands of years old, but the 2011 Tunisian revolution brought about important changes to the way art and politics interact in Tunisia. Censorship under the dictatorship of former president Zine El Abidine Ben Ali was replaced with unprecedented freedom of expression and questions on how to use it. The newfound vigorousness of the arts in Tunisia and the new challenges artists have to address echo those in other countries affected by the Arab Spring, especially Egypt.\n\nArtists found ways to circumvent or avoid censorship of their work before the downfall of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's regime. Tunisian collaborative painting, for instance, is an art form created in Tunisia during the 1980s that allows several artists to collaborate on one piece without prior discussion or planning. Although the Tunisian art market was relatively small and inward looking compared to the ones in other North African countries like Morocco or Algeria, there was proof of an evolving, dynamic art scene even before the revolution, with the successes of Galerie El Marsa or Le Violon Bleu.\n\nStill, according to Khadija Hamdi: \"In Tunisia, with the absence, among other things, of a cultural policy specific to the art market, and the lack of the appropriate cultural and ideological conditions, the emergence of a \"system\" of \"contemporary art\" itself (in the Western sense) has not yet been possible.\"\n\nCertain artistic institutions such as the school of music in El Kef were closed by the regime as potential hotbeds of discord.\n\nWorks of art that used the revolution as a subject proliferated after the downfall of the former regime, both to emulate iconic revolutionary symbols and to explore the complex challenges the country still faced. The revolution saw an upshot in the number of artistic manifestations such as exhibits, most notably in the field of photography. Other art forms such as music also thrived after the revolution.\n\nRemnants from the older regime and from the demonstrations themselves were also used by artists during the revolution, by transforming a police station into an art gallery or transforming burnt out cars into works of art, for instance. Villas belonging to the Trabelsis, the family of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's wife Leïla Ben Ali, became the target of graffiti artists soon after the regime's downfall.\n\nIn the months during and following the revolution, street art played a major role by reclaiming public spaces that used to be controlled by the government and by letting artists and ordinary citizens express themselves freely for the first time in years. Individual artists or groups like the student-run Ahl El Kahf collective used stencils, graffitis and paintings to depict political or revolutionary themes, such as the portrait of Mohamed Bouazizi. In addition to using local revolutionary symbols, street artists also reused Western and Latin American revolutionary icons in the work. Murals were one of the most common form of street art, representing, for instance, people killed during the revolution.\n\nAccording to Nicholas Korody, \"The graffiti of the Tunisian revolution always possesses a revolutionary character in form. That is to say, it existed as a reappropriation of authoritarian-controlled property. It is also notable in that it is the only art form born out of the revolution. While a few artists existed in Tunisia during the Ben Ali regime, their work was quickly covered up and few people knew about the art form. Since the revolution, it has grown massively.\"\n\nAcademic Response\n\nThe revolution in Tunisia and its aftermath has prompted much discussion. Tunisian intellectual, Dr. Mohamed-Salah Omri, a fellow at University of Oxford in Modern Arabic literature, has dedicated much of his research to examining the intersections between poetry and revolution, the \"Confluency\" between Culture, Revolution and Trade Unionism in Tunisia, and the overall challenges of the democratic transition in the country.\n\nDespite the end of Zine El Abidine Ben Ali's dictatorship, Tunisian artists have faced new challenges to their artistic freedom, often from groups that have a strict interpretation of Islam. After years of censorship and repression of both the art world and religious identity, the new regime has had to juggle between the two, and tensions have periodically surfaced.\n\nIn June 2012 riots erupted against the \"Printemps des Arts\" exhibit in La Marsa that Salafi groups and others deemed blasphemous, most notably because of one work of art that spelled out God's name using insects. Hundreds were arrested and curfews were imposed. Some radical religious leaders called for the deaths of the artists, who received death threats, and Tunisian minister of culture Mehdi Mabrouk condemned the artists by saying that art should be \"beautiful,\" not \"revolutionary,\" and that the artists were wrong to invoke Islamic imagery. The leader of the ruling Ennahda Movement, Rachid Ghannouchi, said that he condemned violence against individuals or property but also opposed \"attacks on the beliefs of Tunisians\" and emphasized the need to protect \"sacred symbols\". Also deemed blasphemous by some was a work of art by Nadia Jelassi, who created an installation of female mannequin busts, cloaked in hijabs and surrounded by stones. Jelassi, a teacher at the Tunis Institute of Fine Arts, was called to appear before a judge and was charged for disturbing public order. Her treatment - police took her fingerprints and a mugshot - sparked an online campaign in defense of free expression. In the aftermath of the incident, the artistic community complained that authorities weren't doing enough to protect them.\n\nReligious hardliners tried and sometimes succeeded to prevent other artistic events from taking place like music festivals and plays. Women artists in particular feared that hardline Muslim pressure would prevent them from working freely.\n\nThese tensions led many to feel that \"nothing had changed\" with regards to the relations between art and politics, as censorship is said to have shifted from being political to being religious and moral. According to Sofiane Ouissi, co-creative director of the Dream City, an art festival that takes place in Tunis' medina: \"Under the old censorship and oppression - it was conspicuous; we could locate it; it was clear for us. [...] But now, since it was displaced, it has come into the public space, you never know where dictatorship is going to emerge.\"\n\nArtists have also been targeted by the new regime. In November 2012, Chahine Berriche and Oussama Bouagila, two Tunisian graffiti artists, were arrested for writing \"the people want rights for the poor\" and \"the poor are the living-dead in Tunisia\" on the wall of a university. The two artists were members of the Zwelwa art activist collective and were charged with breaching the state of emergency, writing on public property and disturbing public order.\n\nTunisian street artists eL Seed reacted to these tensions between the artistic and religious communities by painting verses of the Quran preaching tolerance onto the Jara mosque in his hometown of Gabès. He also said that the threat of censorship was exaggerated in certain circles: \"I feel that there is a lot of hypocrisy in Tunisia at the moment, and unfortunately many artists relish censorship, or the fear of it, if it brings them international recognition. I personally have not felt any real threats of censorship.\"\n\nThe B’chira Art Center, located near Sidi Thabet between Tunis and Bizerte, opened in July 2011. The center aimed to develop contemporary art by providing a space for artists to produce and show work, as well as an experimental laboratory to research techniques and introduce children to the art world.\n\nThe Carthage National Museum saw the launch of an umbrella program called Carthage Contemporary, part of an increasingly dynamic contemporary art scene in Tunisia.\n\nAlso established after the revolution in 2011 was the Tunisian Federation of the Visual Arts (Fédération Tunisienne des Arts Plastiques), a grouping of young artist associations aimed at defending and promoting visual arts in Tunisia. These goals are shared by two preexisting organizations, the Association of Tunisian Visual Artists (Union des Artistes Plasticiens Tunisiens) and the Union of Visual Arts Professions (Syndicat des Métiers des Arts Plastiques), created in 2009.\n\nFrench street artist and photographer JR launched the first phase of his Inside Out Project in Tunisia, where native photographers displayed large scale portraits of ordinary Tunisians around the country instead of the formerly ubiquitous pictures of the president. The project fostered discussion with Tunisians, some of whom understood and appreciated the project, while others did not think art should play a political role by using public spaces and complained that the previous regime already imposed pictures upon them all the time.\n\nAlgerian-French artist ZOO Project also celebrated the revolution by placing hundreds of life-size figures around the city, representing the Tunisians who revolted and in particular those who died during the revolution.\n\nTunisian artists also explored political and revolutionary themes in exhibits abroad. In France, the Institut du Monde Arabe hosted two events. In May 2011, an exhibit called \"Dégage\" (French for \"get lost\") showcased photographs of the revolution by a Tunisian photography collective of the same name. A second exhibit that ran from January to April 2012 called \"Dégagements – Tunisia One Year On\" showed work from Tunisian artists and others from the Middle East to celebrate the anniversary of the revolution. It included paintings, graffiti, pictures and sculptures by artists like cartoonist Nadia Kiari and photographer Hichem Driss.\n\nIn the United States, Tunisian student Ikram Lakhdhar curated an exhibit at Connecticut College called \"Moments of Freedom: Revolutionary Art from China, South Africa and Tunisia\" in April 2013 with work by contemporary Tunisian photographers Wassim Grimen, Omar Sfayhi, and Youssef Ben Ammar and internationally renown artists such as Diane Victor, Zhang Hongtu, Rajaa Gharbi and William Kentridge.\n\nIn Germany, the ifa Gallery in Stuttgart hosted an exhibit from January to March 2013 called \"Rosy Future\" on the future of contemporary art in Tunisia after the revolution.\n\n"}
{"id": "46288872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46288872", "title": "Association of Nail Technicians", "text": "Association of Nail Technicians\n\nThe Association of Nail Technicians commonly referred to as ANT, is a UK trade association,which represents the UK's nail industry on behalf of its members. They are the main trade association within the UK nail industry.\n\nANT gives advice to nail technicians as well as help to new start ups from all around the UK.It also runs a register of all the UK's nail technicians which confirms if they are insured.\n\nThe Association works with various UK councils implementing licensing schemes.\n\nThey have been represented during interviews on radio stations such as BBC Radio 1 and BBC Radio Essex, as well as various UK TV programmes including Watchdog on BBC1.\n\nCurrent membership has reached over 2000.\n\nYou require a formal nail technician qualification to join The Association of Nail Technicians.\n\nThe Association of Nail Technicians (ANT) was set up in March 1998 due to the demand that from nail technicians that an association was needed to advise and represent the UK’s growing number of nail technicians. A voice was needed to represent the nail industry on serious issues with local councils and licensing but also a point of contact on everyday problems.\n\nThe Association of Nail Technicians was the first organisation to offer an insurance scheme with a policy designed specifically for nail technicians.\n\n"}
{"id": "36918491", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36918491", "title": "Bakhtiari rug", "text": "Bakhtiari rug\n\nThe Bakhtiari rug, along with other weavings, is a major artform of the Bakhtiari tribe, located in Chahar Mahaal and Bakhtiari, Iran. They have been weaving rugs exported around the globe since the early 19th century.\n\nWhile originally woven by nomadic Bakhtiari, most authentic Bakhtiari rugs are woven in Bakhtiari settled communities in west central Iran southwest of Isfahan, Chahar Mahaal and Bakhtiari and parts of the provinces of Isfahan, Lorestan, and eastern Khuzestan, most notably in the town of Shahr-Kurd. Bakhtiari rugs were also known after their place of origin, such as Saman or Hureh (Hori). However, Bakhtiari patterns are copied in other weaving centers in Iran, Pakistan, India and China; so that a place name came to be used to refer to the place of origin of the pattern and quality of the rug, rather than to its place of actual manufacture. Saman and Hori are now regarded as grades of Bakhtiari rugs, rather than as geographical terms.\n\nBakhtiari carpets are based on a cotton foundation (warp) with a wool weft usually taken from the herds of the producing tribe. This leads to unique carpets that differ depending on the characteristics of each tribe’s wool. The wool can range from dull to extreme glossy and the resultant pile is clipped medium to high. The best carpets with the highest knot density are often known as \"Bibibaff\". Prices range considerably with the highest knot density rugs generally being the most expensive, but price is also affected by criteria such as the pattern and the dyes used. \"Chapel Shotur\" and \"Saman\" pieces are rated slightly beneath \"Bibibaff\" productions, but are still considered to be good to excellent. \"Hori\" carpets are of looser weave and inferior quality and as such, are generally widely affordable.\n\nThe sizes vary from narrow hall carpets to large room designs, often up to 4 m × 5 m. The larger rugs tend to be very rare and harder to come by. Similarly, older rugs, often coveted by collectors, can be extremely costly.\n\nPatterns are usually floral or garden inspired. The \"Khesti\", an established garden motif is perhaps the most well-known rug design. The carpet is divided into individual squares with animals and plants acting as symbols. Another influential design features a decorated field with lattice designs and floral ornaments.\n\nThe use of colors varies depending on styles of certain tribes. Generally they include shades of white, reds, browns, greens, and yellows. Blue does not appear to feature. Natural dyes produce variations in color, which are particularly obvious on older Bibibaffs.\n"}
{"id": "52990207", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52990207", "title": "Birds Mosaic (Jerusalem)", "text": "Birds Mosaic (Jerusalem)\n\nThe Birds Mosaic decorates a floor dated to the sixth century, located about 350 meters north of Damascus Gate in Jerusalem. The inscription at the head of the mosaic, as well as its artistic style, indicate that it was made by Armenian artists.\n\nThe mosaic is located in an old building, outside Damascus Gate, near the beginning of HaNeviim street. This building is located in what was once the Jewish neighborhood Kirya Ne'emana, which was destroyed during the Israeli War of Independence, and Arab houses were built on its ruins. This mosaic is one of four Armenian mosaics from the Byzantine period which were discovered in this part of Jerusalem, and it seems we can learn from this about the activity of the Armenian community in that period.\n\nThe mosaic was discovered in 1894 in the process of building the foundation for a house. The Turkish authorities requested that the archaeologists Frederick J. Bliss and Archibald Dickie, who were working at the time on Mount Zion, to take upon themselves the excavation work. The development work slightly damaged the edges of the mosaic, and as soon as it was discovered the work ended, and the process of uncovering and preserving the mosaic began. A small cave was discovered under the southeast part of the mosaic, including human bones and oil lights, which were dated to the Byzantine period. When the Armenian inscription was revealed, the Armenian Patriarchate of Jerusalem expressed interest in purchasing the house, and eventually did purchase it, out of desire to emphasize the importance and centrality of the Armenian community in Byzantine Jerusalem. To this day, the mosaic is considered one of the most important sites in the history of the Armenian community in the city. As of 2009, entrance to the site is possible only by coordination with the Patriarchate.\n\nAbout 1000 mosaic floors have been discovered in the land of Israel. Most have been dated to the Byzantine period, between the years 450 and 640, when Muslims conquered the area and church art declined. Most of the mosaics adorned the floors of Greek or Armenian churches.\n\nThis mosaic covers an area of about 4 by 7 meters. It has been almost fully preserved, including a full Armenian inscription which states \"To the memory and redemption of all the Armenians, whose names are known only to God\". This inscription seems to indicate that the mosaic decorated the floor of a memorial chapel for the dead, a common feature of Armenian churches in the Byzantine period. Apparently the cave which was discovered under the mosaic served as part of the chapel, and perhaps it is the burial place of those Armenians \"whose names are known only to God\". Based on the inscription and the mosaic style, it was dated to around the year 550, since beginning in this period there are indications of Armenian presence in Jerusalem. The Armenian alphabet was created only in 404, so the mosaic cannot be any earlier than this.\n\nThe mosaic includes many figures of birds, which are inscribed in 39 round medallions formed from images of grape vines. The mosaic is bounded by a colorful \"braided\" frame. This is a symmetric mosaic, where elements on the right side are \"reflected\" to the left, so every bird on the right side has a twin on the left side, except those on the central axis. Therefore, most of the birds are facing the central axis. The birds lack \"depth \" and perspective: while Greek and Roman mosaic art involved perspective and three-dimensional depiction, Byzantine mosaic art which developed in Israel in the 5th century was influenced by Eastern art which tended towards \"flattening\" of images and division of the area into squares or medallions.\n\nThe mosaic's head is at the entrance to the room, where an amphora is displayed with peacocks on either side. The amphora with peacocks is a common motif in Byzantine mosaic art in Israel, which can also be found in the old church in Nahariya or the Byzantine church in Sebastopol. Thin, round grape vines extend from the mouth of the amphora to create the framework of the 39 medallions. Many grape leaves and clusters branch off of the vines, and are scattered around the mosaic. Interwoven grape vines are another common motif in Byzantine mosaic floors in Egypt, including in synagogues from the period, such as in Gaza and Maon. It seems that the artists of the period thus continued the Roman mosaic tradition.\n\nThe birds have been identified by scholars as a variety of species found in Israel, including pigeons, geese, storks, swallows, partridge, pheasants, and more. Armenian mosaic artists extensively used natural motifs, such as trees, flowers, birds, and other animals. The motifs are therefore a clear characteristic of Armenian art in general, and to this day Armenian ceramics, for example, are characterized by natural designs.\n\nThe subject of the mosaic, according to many scholars, is the memory of the dead by the living, and the passage from this world to the afterlife. The inscription at the head of the mosaic indicates that the chapel was intended to preserve the memory of the deceased, and the entire mosaic comes, then, to strengthen the connection between the worlds. According to this approach, one may see the caged bird as a symbol of the soul encaged in the body, which separates it from the body-free souls in the afterlife. The conch, which appears above the amphora on the central axis of the mosaic, is a motif taken from ancient Greek art, where it symbolizes a holy place or royalty. Perhaps this is a symbol of \"the kingdom of heaven\". In addition, the eagle (or vulture) which looks backwards, unlike the other birds, perhaps symbolizes the separation from the dead and their memory. The large amphora, grape vines, and two peacocks are also motifs from the afterlife, as archaeologist Michael Avi-Yonah wrote about the synagogue in Maon in the southern West Bank: \"The amphora and tendrils represent the Garden of Eden, and the peacocks on either side represent immortality.\"\n\nIn 1950, a mosaic was discovered in Caesarea, which likewise included many depictions of birds within medallions. This mosaic was originally identified as a church, but later excavations in 2004 led to the conclusion that it was the courtyard of a palace from the late Byzantine period.\n\nDespite the great similarity in terms of style and material between the two mosaics, there is no further connection between them. The Jerusalem mosaic is small, the medallions are separated by grape vines, the birds face the central axis, an the building was religious. In contrast, the Caesarea mosaic is almost three times larger, the medallions have a stone border, all the birds face to the left, and the building was private. In addition, it is unknown who created the Caesarea mosaic, and there is no indication that the artists were Armenian.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17123601", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17123601", "title": "Catalan Atlas", "text": "Catalan Atlas\n\nThe Catalan Atlas (, , archaic spelling: \"Atlas Catalan\") is the most important map of the medieval period in the Catalan language (drawn and written in 1375). It was produced by the Majorcan cartographic school and is attributed to Cresques Abraham (also known as \"Abraham Cresques\"), a Jewish book illuminator who was self-described as a master of the maps of the world as well as compasses. It has been in the royal library of France (now the Bibliothèque nationale de France) since the time of King Charles V. The Catalan Atlas originally consisted of six vellum leaves (each circa 65cm by 50cm) folded vertically, painted in various colors including gold and silver. These were cut in half later, and mounted on wooden panels enclosed in a leather binding. \n\nThe first two leaves contain texts in Catalan covering cosmography, astronomy, and astrology. These texts are accompanied by illustrations. The texts and illustration emphasize the Earth's spherical shape and the state of the known world. They also provide information to sailors on tides and how to tell time at night. \n\nThe four remaining leaves make up the actual map, with Jerusalem located close to the centre; two depict the Orient and the remaining two Europe and North Africa. The map is around 1.3 square metres in size. The map shows illustrations of many cities, Christian cities with a cross, other cities with a dome, and with each city's political allegiance indicated by a flag. Wavy blue vertical lines are used to symbolize oceans. Place names of important ports are transcribed in red, while others are indicated in black. The illustrations and most of the text are oriented towards the edges of the map, suggesting it was intended to be used by laying it flat and walking around it. \n\nThe oriental portion of the Catalan Atlas illustrates numerous religious references as well as a synthesis of medieval \"mappae mundi\" and the travel literature of the time, especially Marco Polo's \"Book of Marvels\" and Mandeville's \"Travels and Voyage of Sir John Mandeville\". Many Indian and Chinese cities can be identified. The explanatory texts report customs described by Polo and catalogue local economic resources, real or supposed.\n\nThe Western portion is similar to contemporary portolan charts, but contains the first compass rose known to have been used on such a chart.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47806779", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47806779", "title": "Davi Cheng", "text": "Davi Cheng\n\nDavi Cheng is artist and graphic designer from Hong Kong who combines traditional methods of drawing and painting with advanced digital design techniques.\n\nDavi Cheng was born in Hong Kong into a Christian/Protestant extended family. Her great-grandfather converted to Christianity in 1896 at the First Congregational Church in Territorial Arizona while he was working as a documented laborer. He returned to China in 1902 to spread the Gospel, and Cheng's family remained there until her family immigrated to the United States when she was 14 years old. \n\nDavi earned a B.A. in Biological Sciences from University of California, Berkeley with the intention of pursuing a career in the medical field. Instead she gravitated toward art, making detailed sketches and drawings of wildlife. After graduating and working in business for a few years, Cheng went back to school to study computer graphic design. As a visual artist she combines traditional methods of drawing and painting by hand with advanced digital design techniques. She also works as a graphic designer in corporate and nonprofit contexts.\n\nThe themes in Cheng's art emerge from her Chinese heritage and her deep engagement with Jewish texts and traditions from a progressive and multicultural perspective. She is a longtime member and past president of Congregation Beth Chayim Chadashim (BCC) in Los Angeles, and part of the Be'chol Lashon (In Every Tongue) international network celebrating Jewish diversity.\n\nCheng's work is published in \"Women of the Book\" (2015), a visual Torah scroll created by 54 Jewish women artists from around the world. Cheng's original interpretation of the Torah portion parshat Pekudei, a pen and ink painting on parchment, was inspired by her Hong Kong childhood superheroes and by images of clouds in \"Journey to the West\", one of the four great classical novels of Chinese literature.\n\nAnother painting, \"Burning Bush I,\" was published on the cover of \"Asian Jewish Life\" magazine (June 2015, issue 16); on \"The Jewniverse\", \"Chinese Art with a Jewish Twist (Or, Jewish Art with a Chinese Twist)\" by Ilana Sichel (June 8, 2015); and on \"My Jewish Learning\", \"Seamlessly Chinese and Jewish\" by Davi Cheng (June 1, 2015).\n\nCheng designed BCC synagogue's permanent stained glass window installation, the centerpiece of which refers to the biblical story of the parting of the Red Sea. Along with three other artists, she also fabricated and installed all twelve panes (measuring 30\" x 40\" each). She has created other art works for the sanctuary, collaborating with Jerry Hanson on a set of stained glass Ark doors and a solar-powered \"Ner Tamid\" (\"eternal light\") made with more than a thousand one-inch glass squares.\n\nCheng plays trumpet and French horn and co-founded and performs in Beth Chayim Chadashim's Klezmer band, Gay Gezunt, and also sings in the synagogue's choir. She lives with her spouse Bracha Yael Cheng in Los Angeles.\n"}
{"id": "34795609", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34795609", "title": "Denis Côté", "text": "Denis Côté\n\nDenis Côté (born November 16, 1973) is an independent filmmaker and producer living in Quebec, of Brayon origin. His experimental films have been shown at major film festivals around the world.\n\nCôté was born in Perth-Andover, New Brunswick, Canada. He studied film at Collège Ahuntsic in Montreal and founded nihilproductions around 1994. He made a number of short films, including \"Kosovolove\" (2000) and \"La sphatte\" (2003). He has also been a film critic on radio, at ici magazine from 1999 to 2005, and vice-president of the Quebec association of film critics (\"Association québécoise des critiques de cinéma\", or AQCC).\n\nIn 2005, his first feature film, \"Les états nordiques\" (\"Drifting States\"), won the Golden Leopard - Video at the Locarno International Film Festival (in a tie with \"The Masseur\"), as well as the Woosuk Award (Indie Vision) at the Jeonju International Film Festival.\n\nHis 2007 film \"Nos vies privées\" (\"Our Private Lives\") was filmed in Bulgarian. The 2008 film \"Elle veut le chaos\" (\"All That She Wants\"), his third feature film, won the silver Leopard for best directing at the Locarno International Film Festival and Best Canadian film at the \"Festival international du cinéma francophone en Acadie\". Jean-Michel Frodon, editor-in-chief of Cahiers du Cinéma at the time, made it one of his top 10 picks for best film of 2008.\n\nIn October 2008, there was a retrospective of his work at the Cinémathèque québécoise.\n\nThe 2009 documentary \"Carcasses\" was presented at the Cannes Film Festival at the Directors' Fortnight in May 2009. It was part of the Canada Top Ten at the Toronto International Film Festival.\n\nAt the end of May 2010 at the Festival TransAmériques, he created a video accompaniment for the play \"Cendres\" directed by Jérémie Niel (based on \"Earth and Ashes\" by Atiq Rahimi).\n\nThe 2010 \"short\" film (43 minutes) \"Les Lignes ennemies\" (\"The Enemy Lines\") was part of the Jeonju Digital Project at the Jeonju International Film Festival, where it had its world premiere.\n\nIn August 2010, his feature film \"Curling\" was presented at the Locarno International Film Festival, where it won the prize for best directing as well as the prize for best actor (Emmanuel Bilodeau). It was released in France in October 2011, to positive critical reviews.\n\nAt the end of October and beginning of November 2010, the Viennale presented a retrospective of his work, as did the Festival de La Rochelle in 2011.\n\nHis 2012 documentary \"Bestiaire\", filmed at Parc Safari in Hemmingford, Quebec, had its world premiere at the Sundance Film Festival and was also shown at the Berlin Film Festival.\n\nCôté also produced the film \"Le Cèdre penché\" by Rafaël Ouellet in 2007. His 2013 film \"Vic and Flo Saw a Bear\" premiered in competition at the 63rd Berlin International Film Festival, where it won the Alfred Bauer Prize. \"Vic and Flo Saw A Bear\" was screened in about 90 film festivals, was released in a dozen countries and to this day, Denis Côté's work has been offered more than 20 retrospectives around the world. In 2014, he returned to Berlinale with a new essay film \"Que ta joie demeure\".\n\nFor his 9th feature film \"Boris sans Béatrice\" (2016), Denis Côté teamed up with local star actor James Hyndman and imagines the life of fictitious businessman Boris Malinovsky. The film premiered at the 66th Berlin International Film Festival in 2016.\n\nIn 2015, Ministry of Culture and Communications (France) officially named Denis Côté a Knight of the Order of the Arts and Letters.\n\n\"Ta peau si lisse\" (\"A Skin So Soft\") features six real-life bodybuilders and had its World Premiere on August 4, 2017 at the 70th Locarno International Film Festival. Variety praised the 'eclectic approach' of the film. The Upcoming UK called it a 'bewitching and admirable piece of work'.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30697259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30697259", "title": "Egyptian temple", "text": "Egyptian temple\n\nEgyptian temples were built for the official worship of the gods and in commemoration of the pharaohs in ancient Egypt and regions under Egyptian control. Temples were seen as houses for the gods or kings to whom they were dedicated. Within them, the Egyptians performed a variety of rituals, the central functions of Egyptian religion: giving offerings to the gods, reenacting their mythological interactions through festivals, and warding off the forces of chaos. These rituals were seen as necessary for the gods to continue to uphold \"maat\", the divine order of the universe. Housing and caring for the gods were the obligations of pharaohs, who therefore dedicated prodigious resources to temple construction and maintenance. Out of necessity, pharaohs delegated most of their ritual duties to a host of priests, but most of the populace was excluded from direct participation in ceremonies and forbidden to enter a temple's most sacred areas. Nevertheless, a temple was an important religious site for all classes of Egyptians, who went there to pray, give offerings, and seek oracular guidance from the god dwelling within.\n\nThe most important part of the temple was the sanctuary, which typically contained a cult image, a statue of its god. The rooms outside the sanctuary grew larger and more elaborate over time, so that temples evolved from small shrines in late Prehistoric Egypt (late fourth millennium BC) to large stone edifices in the New Kingdom (c. 1550–1070 BC) and later. These edifices are among the largest and most enduring examples of Egyptian architecture, with their elements arranged and decorated according to complex patterns of religious symbolism. Their typical design consisted of a series of enclosed halls, open courts, and entrance pylons aligned along the path used for festival processions. Beyond the temple proper was an outer wall enclosing a wide variety of secondary buildings.\n\nA large temple also owned sizable tracts of land and employed thousands of laymen to supply its needs. Temples were therefore key economic as well as religious centers. The priests who managed these powerful institutions wielded considerable influence, and despite their ostensible subordination to the king they may have posed significant challenges to his authority.\n\nTemple-building in Egypt continued despite the nation's decline and ultimate loss of independence to the Roman Empire in 30 BC. With the coming of Christianity, traditional Egyptian religion faced increasing persecution, and temple cults died out during the fourth through sixth centuries AD. The buildings they left behind suffered centuries of destruction and neglect. At the start of the nineteenth century, a wave of interest in ancient Egypt swept Europe, giving rise to the discipline of Egyptology and drawing increasing numbers of visitors to the civilization's remains. Dozens of temples survive today, and some have become world-famous tourist attractions that contribute significantly to the modern Egyptian economy. Egyptologists continue to study the surviving temples and the remains of destroyed ones as invaluable sources of information about ancient Egyptian society.\n\nAncient Egyptian temples were meant as places for the gods to reside on earth. Indeed, the term the Egyptians most commonly used to describe the temple building, \"ḥwt-nṯr\", means \"mansion (or enclosure) of a god\". A divine presence in the temple linked the human and divine realms and allowed humans to interact with the god through ritual. These rituals, it was believed, sustained the god and allowed it to continue to play its proper role in nature. They were therefore a key part of the maintenance of \"maat\", the ideal order of nature and of human society in Egyptian belief. Maintaining \"maat\" was the entire purpose of Egyptian religion, and it was the purpose of a temple as well.\n\nBecause he was credited with divine power himself, the pharaoh, as a sacred king, was regarded as Egypt's representative to the gods and its most important upholder of \"maat\". Thus, it was theoretically his duty to perform the temple rites. While it is uncertain how often he participated in ceremonies, the existence of temples across Egypt made it impossible for him to do so in all cases, and most of the time these duties were delegated to priests. The pharaoh was nevertheless obligated to maintain, provide for, and expand the temples throughout his realm.\n\nAlthough the pharaoh delegated his authority, the performance of temple rituals was still an official duty, restricted to high-ranking priests. The participation of the general populace in most ceremonies was prohibited. Much of the lay religious activity in Egypt instead took place in private and community shrines, separate from the official temples. As the primary link between the human and divine realms, temples attracted considerable veneration from ordinary Egyptians.\n\nEach temple had a principal deity, and most were dedicated to other gods as well. Not all deities had temples dedicated to them. Many demons and household gods were involved primarily in magical or private religious practice, with little or no presence in temple ceremonies. There were also other gods who had significant roles in the cosmos but, for uncertain reasons, were not honored with temples of their own. Of those gods who did have temples of their own, many were venerated mainly in certain areas of Egypt, though many gods with a strong local tie were also important across the nation. Even deities whose worship spanned the country were strongly associated with the cities where their chief temples were located. In Egyptian creation myths, the first temple originated as a shelter for a god—which god it was varied according to the city—that stood on the mound of land where the process of creation began. Each temple in Egypt, therefore, was equated with this original temple and with the site of creation itself. As the primordial home of the god and the mythological location of the city's founding, the temple was seen as the hub of the region, from which the city's patron god ruled over it.\n\nPharaohs also built temples where offerings were made to sustain their spirits in the afterlife, often linked with or located near their tombs. These temples are traditionally called \"mortuary temples\" and regarded as essentially different from divine temples. In recent years some Egyptologists, such as Gerhard Haeny, have argued that there is no clear division between the two. The Egyptians did not refer to mortuary temples by any distinct name. Nor were rituals for the dead and rituals for the gods mutually exclusive; the symbolism surrounding death was present in all Egyptian temples. The worship of gods was present to some degree in mortuary temples, and the Egyptologist Stephen Quirke has said that \"at all periods royal cult involves the gods, but equally... all cult of the gods involves the king\". Even so, certain temples were clearly used to commemorate deceased kings and to give offerings to their spirits. Their exact purpose is not fully understood; they may have been meant to unite the king with the gods, elevating him to a divine status greater than that of ordinary kingship. In any case, the difficulty of separating divine and mortuary temples reflects the close intertwining of divinity and kingship in Egyptian belief.\n\nTemples were also key centers of economic activity. The largest of them required prodigious resources and employed tens of thousands of priests, craftsmen, and laborers. The temple's economic workings were analogous to those of a large Egyptian household, with servants dedicated to serving the temple god as they might serve the master of an estate. This similarity is reflected in the Egyptian term for the temple lands and their administration, \"pr\", meaning \"house\" or \"estate\".\n\nSome of the temple's supplies came from direct donations by the king. In the New Kingdom, when Egypt was an imperial power, these donations often came out of the spoils of the king's military campaigns or the tribute given by his client states. The king might also levy various taxes that went directly to support a temple. Other revenue came from private individuals, who offered land, slaves, or goods to temples in exchange for a supply of offerings and priestly services to sustain their spirits in the afterlife.\n\nMuch of a temple's economic support came from its own resources. These included large tracts of land beyond the temple enclosure, sometimes in a completely different region than the temple itself. The most important type of property was farmland, producing grain, fruit, or wine, or supporting herds of livestock. The temple either managed these lands directly, rented them out to farmers for a share of the produce, or managed them jointly with the royal administration. Temples also launched expeditions into the desert to collect resources such as salt, honey, or wild game, or to mine precious minerals. Some owned fleets of ships with which to conduct their own trade across the country or even beyond Egypt's borders. Thus, as Richard H. Wilkinson says, the temple estate \"often represented no less than a slice of Egypt itself\". As a major economic center and the employer of a large part of the local population, the temple enclosure was a key part of the town in which it stood. Conversely, when a temple was founded on empty land, a new town was built to support it.\n\nAll this economic power was ultimately under the pharaoh's control, and temple products and property were often taxed. Their employees, even the priests, were subject to the state corvée system, which conscripted labor for royal projects. They could also be ordered to provide supplies for some specific purposes. Harkhuf's trading expedition in the Old Kingdom was allowed to procure supplies from any temple it wished, and the mortuary temples of the Theban Necropolis in the New Kingdom oversaw the provision of the royally employed tomb workers at Deir el-Medina. Kings could also exempt temples or classes of personnel from taxation and conscription.\n\nThe royal administration could also order one temple to divert its resources to another temple whose influence it wished to expand. Thus, a king might increase the income of the temples of a god he favored, and mortuary temples of recent rulers tended to siphon off resources from temples to pharaohs long dead. The most drastic means of controlling the temple estates was to completely revise the distribution of their property nationwide, which might extend to closing down certain temples. Such changes could significantly alter Egypt's economic landscape. The temples were thus important instruments with which the king managed the nation's resources and its people. As the direct overseers of their own economic sphere, the administrations of large temples wielded considerable influence and may have posed a challenge to the authority of a weak pharaoh, although it is unclear how independent they were.\n\nOnce Egypt became a Roman province, Roman officials sought to limit temples' power and independence. Temples were made to either pay rent to the government for the land they owned or surrender that land to the state in exchange for a government stipend. Their cults became tightly regulated, less self-supporting, and dependent on government donations and various small sources of revenue.\n\nThe earliest known shrines appeared in prehistoric Egypt in the late fourth millennium BC, at sites such as Saïs and Buto in Lower Egypt and Nekhen and Coptos in Upper Egypt. Most of these shrines were made of perishable materials such as wood, reed matting, and mudbrick. Despite the impermanence of these early buildings, later Egyptian art continually reused and adapted elements from them, evoking the ancient shrines to suggest the eternal nature of the gods and their dwelling places.\n\nIn the Early Dynastic Period (c. 3100–2686 BC), the first pharaohs built funerary complexes in the religious center of Abydos following a single general pattern, with a rectangular mud brick enclosure. In the Old Kingdom (c. 2686–2181 BC) that followed the Early Dynastic Period, royal funerary monuments greatly expanded, while most divine temples remained comparatively small, suggesting that official religion in this period emphasized the cult of the divine king more than the direct worship of deities. Deities closely connected with the king, such as the sun god Ra, received more royal contributions than other deities. Ra's temple at Heliopolis was one of the great religious centers of the age, and several Old Kingdom pharaohs built large sun temples in his honor near their pyramids. Meanwhile, the small provincial temples retained a variety of local styles from Predynastic times, unaffected by the royal cult sites.\nThe expansion of funerary monuments began in the reign of Djoser, who built his complex entirely of stone and placed in the enclosure a step pyramid under which he was buried: the Pyramid of Djoser. For the rest of the Old Kingdom, tomb and temple were joined in elaborate stone pyramid complexes. Near each pyramid complex was a town that supplied its needs, as towns would support temples throughout Egyptian history. Other changes came in the reign of Sneferu who, beginning with his first pyramid at Meidum, built pyramid complexes symmetrically along an east–west axis, with a valley temple on the banks of the Nile linked to a pyramid temple at the foot of the pyramid. Sneferu's immediate successors followed this pattern, but beginning in the late Old Kingdom, pyramid complexes combined different elements from the axial plan and from the rectangular plan of Djoser. To supply the pyramid complexes, kings founded new towns and farming estates on undeveloped lands across Egypt. The flow of goods from these lands to the central government and its temples helped unify the kingdom.\n\nThe rulers of the Middle Kingdom (c. 2055–1650 BC) continued building pyramids and their associated complexes. The rare remains from Middle Kingdom temples, like the one at Medinet Madi, show that temple plans grew more symmetrical during that period, and divine temples made increasing use of stone. The pattern of a sanctuary lying behind a pillared hall frequently appears in Middle Kingdom temples, and sometimes these two elements are fronted by open courts, foreshadowing the standard temple layout used in later times.\n\nWith greater power and wealth during the New Kingdom (c. 1550–1070 BC), Egypt devoted still more resources to its temples, which grew larger and more elaborate. Higher-ranking priestly roles became permanent rather than rotating positions, and they controlled a large portion of Egypt's wealth. Anthony Spalinger suggests that, as the influence of temples expanded, religious celebrations that had once been fully public were absorbed into the temples' increasingly important festival rituals. The most important god of the time was Amun, whose main cult center, the Precinct of Amun-Re at Karnak in Thebes, eventually became the largest of all temples, and whose high priests may have wielded considerable political influence.\n\nMany temples were now built entirely of stone, and their general plan became fixed, with the sanctuary, halls, courtyards, and pylon gateways oriented along the path used for festival processions. New Kingdom pharaohs ceased using pyramids as funerary monuments and placed their tombs a great distance from their mortuary temples. Without pyramids to build around, mortuary temples began using the same plan as those dedicated to the gods.\n\nIn the middle of the New Kingdom, Pharaoh Akhenaten promoted the god Aten over all others and eventually abolished the official worship of most other gods. Traditional temples were neglected while new Aten temples, differing sharply in design and construction, were erected. But Akhenaten's revolution was reversed soon after his death, with the traditional cults reinstated and the new temples dismantled. Subsequent pharaohs dedicated still more resources to the temples, particularly Ramesses II, the most prolific monument-builder in Egyptian history. As the wealth of the priesthoods continued to grow, so did their religious influence: temple oracles, controlled by the priests, were an increasingly popular method of making decisions. Pharaonic power waned, and in the eleventh century BC a military leader, Herihor, made himself High Priest of Amun and the de facto ruler of Upper Egypt, beginning the political fragmentation of the Third Intermediate Period (c. 1070–664 BC).\n\nAs the New Kingdom crumbled, the building of mortuary temples ceased and was never revived. Some rulers of the Third Intermediate Period, such as those at Tanis, were buried within the enclosures of divine temples, thus continuing the close link between temple and tomb.\n\nIn the Third Intermediate Period and the following Late Period (664–323 BC), the weakened Egyptian state fell to a series of outside powers, experiencing only occasional periods of independence. Many of these foreign rulers funded and expanded temples to strengthen their claim to the kingship of Egypt. One such group, the Kushite pharaohs of the eighth and seventh centuries BC, adopted Egyptian-style temple architecture for use in their native land of Nubia, beginning a long tradition of sophisticated Nubian temple building. Amid this turmoil, the fortunes of various temples and clergies shifted and the independence of Amun's priesthood was broken, but the power of the priesthood in general remained.\nDespite the political upheaval, the Egyptian temple style continued to evolve without absorbing much foreign influence. Whereas earlier temple building mostly focused on male gods, goddesses and child deities grew increasingly prominent. Temples focused more on popular religious activities such as oracles, animal cults, and prayer. New architectural forms continued to develop, such as covered kiosks in front of gateways, more elaborate column styles, and the \"mammisi\", a building celebrating the mythical birth of a god. Though the characteristics of the late temple style had developed by the last period of native rule, most of the examples date from the era of the Ptolemies, Greek kings who ruled as pharaohs for nearly 300 years.\n\nAfter Rome conquered the Ptolemaic kingdom in 30 BC, Roman emperors took on the role of ruler and temple patron, reducing the temples' wealth and political power. Many temples in Roman Egypt continued to be built in Egyptian style. Others, including some that were dedicated to Egyptian gods—such as the temple to Isis at Ras el-Soda—were built in a style derived from Roman architecture.\n\nTemple-building continued into the third century AD. As the empire weakened in the crisis of the third century, imperial donations to the temple cults dried up, and almost all construction and decoration ceased. Cult activities at some sites continued, relying increasingly on financial support and volunteer labor from surrounding communities. In the following centuries, Christian emperors issued decrees that were increasingly hostile to pagan cults and temples. Some Christians attacked and destroyed temples, as in the plundering of the Serapeum and other temples in Alexandria in AD 391 or 392. Through some combination of Christian coercion and loss of funds, temples ceased to function at various times. The last temple cults died out in the fourth through sixth centuries AD, although locals may have venerated some sites long after the regular ceremonies there had ceased.\n\nTemples were built throughout Upper and Lower Egypt, as well as at Egyptian-controlled oases in the Libyan Desert as far west as Siwa, and at outposts in the Sinai Peninsula such as Timna. In periods when Egypt dominated Nubia, Egyptian rulers also built temples there, as far south as Jebel Barkal. Most Egyptian towns had a temple, but in some cases, as with mortuary temples or the temples in Nubia, the temple was a new foundation on previously empty land. The exact site of a temple was often chosen for religious reasons; it might, for example, be the mythical birthplace or burial place of a god. The temple axis might also be designed to align with locations of religious significance, such as the site of a neighboring temple or the rising place of the sun or particular stars. The Great Temple of Abu Simbel, for instance, is aligned so that twice a year the rising sun illuminates the statues of the gods in its innermost room. Most temples were aligned toward the Nile with an axis running roughly east–west.\n\nAn elaborate series of foundation rituals preceded construction. A further set of rituals followed the temple's completion, dedicating it to its patron god. These rites were conducted, at least in theory, by the king as part of his religious duties; indeed, in Egyptian belief all temple construction was symbolically his work. In reality, it was the work of hundreds of his subjects, conscripted in the corvée system. The construction process for a new temple, or a major addition to an existing one, could last years or decades.\n\nThe use of stone in Egyptian temples emphasized their purpose as eternal houses for the gods and set them apart from buildings for the use of mortals, which were built of mudbrick. Early temples were built of brick and other perishable materials, and most of the outlying buildings in temple enclosures remained brick-built throughout Egyptian history. The main stones used in temple construction were limestone and sandstone, which are common in Egypt; stones that are harder and more difficult to carve, such as granite, were used in smaller amounts for individual elements like obelisks. The stone to build a temple might be quarried nearby or shipped on the Nile from quarries elsewhere.\n\nTemple structures were built on foundations of stone slabs set into sand-filled trenches. In most periods, walls and other structures were built with large blocks of varying shape. The blocks were laid in courses, usually without mortar. Each stone was dressed to fit with its neighbors, producing cuboid blocks whose uneven shapes interlocked. The interiors of walls were often built with less care, using rougher, poorer-quality stones. To build structures above ground level, the workers used construction ramps built of varying materials such as mud, brick, or rough stone. When cutting chambers in living rock, workers excavated from the top down, carving a crawlspace near the ceiling and cutting down to the floor. Once the temple structure was complete, the rough faces of the stones were dressed to create a smooth surface. In decorating these surfaces, reliefs were carved into the stone or, if the stone was of too poor quality to carve, a layer of plaster that covered the stone surface. Reliefs were then decorated with gilding, inlay, or paint. The paints were usually mixtures of mineral pigments with some kind of adhesive, possibly natural gum.\n\nTemple construction did not end once the original plan was complete; pharaohs often rebuilt or replaced decayed temple structures or made additions to those still standing. In the course of these additions, they frequently dismantled old temple buildings to use as fill for the interiors of new structures. On rare occasions this may have been because the old structures or their builders had become anathema, as with Akhenaten's temples, but in most cases the reason seems to have been convenience. Such expansion and dismantling could considerably distort the original temple plan, as happened at the enormous Precinct of Amun-Re at Karnak, which developed two intersecting axes and several satellite temples.\n\nLike all ancient Egyptian architecture, Egyptian temple designs emphasized order, symmetry, and monumentality and combined geometric shapes with stylized organic motifs. Elements of temple design also alluded to the form of the earliest Egyptian buildings. Cavetto cornices at the tops of walls, for instance, were made to imitate rows of palm fronds placed atop archaic walls, and the batter of exterior walls, while partly meant to ensure stability, was also a holdover from archaic building methods. Temple ground plans usually centered on an axis running on a slight incline from the sanctuary down to the temple entrance. In the fully developed pattern used in the New Kingdom and later, the path used for festival processions—a broad avenue punctuated with large doors—served as this central axis. The path was intended primarily for the god's use when it traveled outside the sanctuary; on most occasions people used smaller side doors. The typical parts of a temple, such as column-filled hypostyle halls, open peristyle courts, and towering entrance pylons, were arranged along this path in a traditional but flexible order. Beyond the temple building proper, the outer walls enclosed numerous satellite buildings. The entire area enclosed by these walls is sometimes called the \"temenos\", the sacred precinct dedicated to the god.\n\nThe temple pattern could vary considerably, apart from the distorting effect of additional construction. Many temples, known as hypogea, were cut entirely into living rock, as at Abu Simbel, or had rock-cut inner chambers with masonry courtyards and pylons, as at Wadi es-Sebua. They used much the same layout as free-standing temples but used excavated chambers rather than buildings as their inner rooms. In some temples, like the mortuary temples at Deir el-Bahari, the processional path ran up a series of terraces rather than sitting on a single level. The Ptolemaic Temple of Kom Ombo was built with two main sanctuaries, producing two parallel axes that run the length of the building. The most idiosyncratic temple style was that of the Aten temples built by Akhenaten at el-Amarna, in which the axis passed through a series of entirely open courts filled with altars.\n\nThe traditional design was a highly symbolic variety of sacred architecture. It was a greatly elaborated variant on the design of an Egyptian house, reflecting its role as the god's home. Moreover, the temple represented a piece of the divine realm on earth. The elevated, enclosed sanctuary was equated with the sacred hill where the world was created in Egyptian myth and with the burial chamber of a tomb, where the god's \"ba\", or spirit, came to inhabit its cult image just as a human \"ba\" came to inhabit its mummy. This crucial place, the Egyptians believed, had to be insulated from the impure outside world. Therefore, as one moved toward the sanctuary the amount of outside light decreased, and restrictions on who could enter increased. Yet the temple could also represent the world itself. The processional way could therefore stand for the path of the sun traveling across the sky, and the sanctuary for the Duat where it was believed to set and to be reborn at night. The space outside the building was thus equated with the waters of chaos that lay outside the world, while the temple represented the order of the cosmos and the place where that order was continually renewed.\n\nThe temple's inner chambers centered on the sanctuary of the temple's primary god, which typically lay along the axis near the back of the temple building, and in pyramid temples directly against the pyramid base. The sanctuary was the focus of temple ritual, the place where the divine presence manifested most strongly. The form in which it manifested itself varied. In Aten temples and traditional solar shrines, the object of ritual was the sun itself or a \"benben\" stone representing the sun, worshipped in a court open to the sky. In many mortuary temples, the inner areas contained statues of the deceased pharaoh, or a false door where his bꜣ (\"personality\", Egyptological \"ba\") was believed to appear to receive offerings.\nIn most temples, the focus was the cult image: a statue of the temple god which that god's \"ba\" was believed to inhabit while interacting with humans. The sanctuary in these temples contained either a naos, a cabinet-like shrine that housed the divine image, or a model barque containing the image within its cabin, which was used to carry the image during festival processions. In some cases the sanctuary may have housed several cult statues. To emphasize the sanctuary's sacred nature, it was kept in total darkness. Whereas in earlier times the sanctuary lay at the very back of the building, in the Late and Ptolemaic periods it became a freestanding building inside the temple, further insulated from the outside world by the surrounding corridors and rooms.\n\nSubsidiary chapels, dedicated to deities associated with the primary god, lay to the sides of the main one. When the main temple god was male, the secondary chapels were often dedicated to that god's mythological consort and child. The secondary chapels in mortuary temples were devoted to gods associated with kingship.\n\nSeveral other rooms neighbored the sanctuary. Many of these rooms were used to store ceremonial equipment, ritual texts, or temple valuables; others had specific ritual functions. The room where offerings were given to the deity was often separate from the sanctuary itself, and in temples without a barque in the sanctuary, there was a separate shrine to store the barque. In late temples the ritual areas could extend to chapels on the roof and crypts below the floor. Finally, in the exterior wall at the back of the temple, there were often niches for laymen to pray to the temple god, as close as they could come to its dwelling place.\n\nHypostyle halls, covered rooms filled with columns, appear in temples throughout Egyptian history. By the New Kingdom they typically lay directly in front of the sanctuary area. These halls were less restricted than the inner rooms, being open to laymen at least in some cases. They were often less dark as well: New Kingdom halls rose into tall central passages over the processional path, allowing a clerestory to provide dim light. The epitome of this style is the Great Hypostyle Hall at Karnak, whose largest columns are tall. In later periods, the Egyptians favored a different style of hall, where a low screen wall at the front let in the light. The shadowy halls, whose columns were often shaped to imitate plants such as lotus or papyrus, were symbolic of the mythological marsh that surrounded the primeval mound at the time of creation. The columns could also be equated with the pillars that held up the sky in Egyptian cosmology.\n\nBeyond the hypostyle hall were one or more peristyle courts open to the sky. These open courts, which had been a part of Egyptian temple design since the Old Kingdom, became transitional areas in the standard plan of the New Kingdom, lying between the public space outside the temple and the more restricted areas within. Here the public met with the priests and assembled during festivals. At the front of each court was usually a pylon, a pair of trapezoidal towers flanking the main gateway. The pylon is known from only scattered examples in the Old and Middle Kingdoms, but in the New it quickly became the distinctive and imposing façade common to most Egyptian temples. The pylon served symbolically as a guard tower against the forces of disorder and may also have been meant to resemble the hieroglyph for \"horizon\", underscoring the temple's solar symbolism.\n\nThe front of every pylon held niches for pairs of flagpoles to stand. Unlike pylons, such flags had stood at temple entrances since the earliest Predynastic shrines. They were so closely associated with the presence of a deity that the hieroglyph for them came to stand for the Egyptian word for \"god\".\n\nOutside the temple building proper was the temple enclosure, surrounded by a rectangular brick wall that symbolically protected the sacred space from outside disorder. On occasion this function was more than symbolic, especially during the last native dynasties in the fourth century BC, when the walls were fully fortified in case of invasion by the Achaemenid Empire. In late temples these walls frequently had alternating concave and convex courses of bricks, so that the top of the wall undulated vertically. This pattern may have been meant to evoke the mythological waters of chaos.\nThe walls enclosed many buildings related to the temple's function. Some enclosures contain satellite chapels dedicated to deities associated with the temple god, including mammisis celebrating the birth of the god's mythological child. Sacred lakes found in many temple enclosures served as reservoirs for the water used in rituals, as places for the priests to ritually cleanse themselves and as representations of the water from which the world emerged.\n\nMortuary temples sometimes contain a palace for the spirit of the king to whom the temple was dedicated, built against the temple building proper. The Mortuary Temple of Seti I at Abydos incorporates an unusual underground structure, the Osireion, which may have served as a symbolic tomb for the king. Sanatoria in some temples provided a place for the sick to await healing dreams sent by the god. Other temple buildings included kitchens, workshops, and storehouses to supply the temple's needs.\n\nEspecially important was the \"pr ꜥnḫ\" \"house of life\", where the temple edited, copied, and stored its religious texts, including those used for temple rituals. The house of life also functioned as a general center of learning, containing works on non-religious subjects such as history, geography, astronomy, and medicine. Although these outlying buildings were devoted to more mundane purposes than the temple itself, they still had religious significance; even granaries might be used for specific ceremonies.\n\nThrough the enclosure ran the processional path, which led from the temple entrance through the main gate in the enclosure wall. The path was frequently decorated with sphinx statues and punctuated by barque stations, where the priests carrying the festival barque could set it down to rest during the procession. The processional path usually ended in a quay on the Nile, which served as the entrance point for river-borne visitors and the exit point for the festival procession when it travelled by water. In Old Kingdom pyramid temples, the quay adjoined an entire temple (the valley temple), which was linked to the pyramid temple by the processional causeway.\n\nThe temple building was elaborately decorated with reliefs and free-standing sculpture, all with religious significance. As with the cult statue, the gods were believed to be present in these images, suffusing the temple with sacred power. Symbols of places in Egypt or parts of the cosmos enhanced the mythical geography already present in the temple's architecture. Images of rituals served to reinforce the rituals' magical effect and to perpetuate that effect even if the rituals ceased to be performed. Because of their religious nature, these decorations showed an idealized version of reality, emblematic of the temple's purpose rather than real events. For instance, the king was shown performing most rituals, while priests, if depicted, were secondary. It was unimportant that he was rarely present for these ceremonies; it was his broader role as intermediary with the gods that mattered.\n\nThe most important form of decoration is relief. Relief became more extensive over time, and in late temples, walls, ceilings, columns, and beams were all decorated, as were free-standing stelae erected within the enclosure. Egyptian artists used both bas relief and sunken relief. Bas relief allowed more subtle artistry but involved more carving than sunken relief. Sunken relief was therefore used on harder, more difficult stone and when the builders wanted to finish quickly. It was also appropriate for exterior surfaces, where the shadows it created made the figures stand out in bright sunlight. Finished reliefs were painted using the basic colors black, white, red, yellow, green, and blue, although the artists often mixed pigments to create other colors, and Ptolemaic temples were especially colorful, using unusual colors such as purple as accents. In some temples, gilding or inlaid pieces of colored glass or faience substituted for paint.\n\nTemple decoration is among the most important sources of information on Ancient Egypt. It includes calendars of festivals, accounts of myths, depictions of rituals, and the texts of hymns. Pharaohs recorded their temple-building activities and their campaigns against the enemies of Egypt. The Ptolemaic temples go further to include information of all kinds taken from temple libraries. The decoration in a given room either depicts the actions performed there or has some symbolic tie to the room's purpose, providing a great deal of information on temple activities. Interior walls were divided into several registers. The lowest registers were decorated with plants representing the primeval marsh, while the ceilings and tops of walls were decorated with stars and flying birds to represent the sky. Illustrations of rituals, surrounded by text related to the rituals, often filled the middle and upper registers. Courts and exterior walls often recorded the king's military exploits. The pylon showed the \"smiting scene\", a motif in which the king strikes down his enemies, symbolizing the defeat of the forces of chaos.\n\nThe text on the walls was the formal hieroglyphic script. Some texts were written in a \"cryptographic\" form, using symbols in a different way than the normal conventions of hieroglyphic writing. Cryptographic text became more widespread and more complex in Ptolemaic times. Temple walls also frequently bear written or drawn graffiti, both in modern languages and in ancient ones such as Greek, Latin, and Demotic, the form of Egyptian that was commonly used in Greco-Roman times. Although not part of the temple's formal decoration, graffiti can be an important source of information about its history, both when its cults were functioning and after its abandonment. Ancient graffiti, for instance, often mention the names and titles of priests who worked in the temple, and modern travelers often inscribed their names in temples that they visited. Graffiti left by priests and pilgrims at Philae include the last ancient hieroglyphic text, inscribed in AD 394, and the last one in Demotic script, from AD 452.\n\nLarge, free-standing sculpture included obelisks, tall, pointed pillars that symbolized the sun. The largest of them, the Lateran Obelisk, was more than high. They were often placed in pairs in front of pylons or elsewhere along the temple axis. Statues of the king, which were similarly placed, also reached colossal size; the Colossi of Memnon at the mortuary temple of Amenhotep III and the statue of Ramesses II at the Ramesseum are the largest free-standing statues made in ancient Egypt. There were also figures of gods, often in sphinx form, that served as symbolic guardians of the temple. The most numerous statues were votive figures donated to the temple by kings, private individuals, or even towns to gain divine favor. They could depict the god to whom they were dedicated, the people who donated the statue, or both. The most essential temple statues were the cult images, which were usually made of or decorated with precious materials such as gold and lapis lazuli.\n\nA temple needed many people to perform its rituals and support duties. Priests performed the temple's essential ritual functions, but in Egyptian religious ideology they were far less important than the king. As temple decoration illustrates, all ceremonies were, in theory, acts by the king, and priests merely stood in his place. The priests were therefore subject to the king's authority, and he had the right to appoint anyone he wished to the priesthood. In fact, in the Old and Middle Kingdoms most priests were government officials who left their secular duties for part of the year to serve the temple in shifts. Once the priesthood became more professional, the king seems to have used his power over appointments mainly for the highest-ranking positions, usually to reward a favorite official with a job or to intervene for political reasons in the affairs of an important cult. Lesser appointments he delegated to his vizier or to the priests themselves. In the latter case, the holder of an office named his own son as his successor, or the temple clergy conferred to decide who should fill an empty post. Priestly offices were extremely lucrative and tended to be held by the wealthiest and most influential members of Egyptian society, until Roman economic reforms reduced the temples’ resources.\n\nThe requirements for the priesthood differed over time and among the cults of different gods. Although detailed theological knowledge was involved in priestly offices, little is known about what knowledge or training may have been required of the officeholders. Priests were required to observe strict standards of ritual purity in the sacred space. They shaved their heads and bodies, washed several times a day, and wore only clean linen clothing. They were not required to be celibate, but sexual intercourse rendered them unclean until they underwent further purification. The cults of specific gods might impose further restrictions related to that god's mythology, such as rules against eating the meat of an animal that represented the god. The acceptance of women into the priesthood was variable. In the Old Kingdom many women served as priests, but their presence in clergies declined drastically in the Middle Kingdom before increasing in the Third Intermediate Period. Lesser positions, such as that of musician in ceremonies, remained open to women in even the most restrictive periods, as did the special role of ceremonial consort of the god. This latter role was highly influential, and the most important of these consorts, the God's Wife of Amun, even supplanted the High Priest of Amun during the Late Period.\n\nAt the head of the temple hierarchy was the high priest, who oversaw all the temple's religious and economic functions and in the largest cults was an important political figure. Beneath him might be as many as three grades of subordinate priests who could substitute for him in ceremonies. While these higher ranks were full-time positions from the New Kingdom onward, the lower grades of priesthood still worked in shifts over the course of the year. Whereas many priests did a variety of menial tasks, the clergy also contained several ritual specialists. Prominent among these specialized roles was that of the lector priest who recited hymns and spells during temple rituals, and who hired out his magical services to laymen. Besides its priests, a large temple employed singers, musicians, and dancers to perform during rituals, plus the farmers, bakers, artisans, builders, and administrators who supplied and managed its practical needs. In the Ptolemaic era, temples could also house people who had sought asylum within the precinct, or recluses who voluntarily dedicated themselves to serving the god and living in its household. A major cult, therefore, could have well over 150 full or part-time priests, with tens of thousands of non-priestly employees working on its lands across the country. These numbers contrast with mid-sized temples, which may have had 10 to 25 priests, and with the smallest provincial temples, which might have only one.\n\nSome priests' duties took them beyond the temple precinct. They formed part of the entourage in festivals that traveled from one temple to another, and clergies from around the country sent representatives to the national sed festival that reinforced the king's divine power. Some temples, such as those in the neighboring cities of Memphis and Letopolis, were overseen by the same high priest.\n\nAt certain times there was an administrative office that presided over all temples and clergies. In the Old Kingdom, pharaohs gave this authority first to their relatives and then to their viziers. In the reign of Thutmose III the office passed from the viziers to the High Priests of Amun, who held it for much of the New Kingdom. The Romans established a similar office, that of the high priest for all Egypt, which oversaw the temple cults until their extinction.\n\nThe daily rituals in most temples included two sequences of offering rites: one to clean and dress the god for the day, and one to present it with a meal. The exact order of events in these rituals is uncertain and may have varied somewhat each time they were performed. In addition, the two sequences probably overlapped with each other. At sunrise, the officiating priest entered the sanctuary, carrying a candle to light the room. He opened the doors of the shrine and prostrated himself before the god's image, reciting hymns in its praise. He removed the god from the shrine, clothed it (replacing the clothes of the previous day), and anointed it with oil and paint. At some point the priest presented the god's meal, including a variety of meats, fruits, vegetables, and bread.\n\nThe god was believed to consume only the spiritual essence of this meal. This belief allowed the food to be distributed to others, an act that the Egyptians called the \"reversion of offerings\". The food passed first to the other statues throughout the temple, then to local funerary chapels for the sustenance of the dead, and finally to the priests who ate it.\n\nTemple artwork often shows the king presenting an image of the goddess Maat to the temple deity, an act that represented the purpose of all other offerings.\n\nOther offering rituals took place at noon and at sunset, though the sanctuary was not reopened. Some ceremonies other than offerings also took place daily, including rituals specific to a particular god. In the cult of the sun god Ra, for instance, hymns were sung day and night for every hour of the god's journey across the sky. Many of the ceremonies acted out in ritual the battle against of the forces of chaos. They might, for instance, involve the destruction of models of inimical gods like Apep or Set, acts that were believed to have a real effect through the principle of \"ḥkꜣ\" (Egyptological pronunciation \"heka\", Coptic: \"hik\";) \"magic\".\n\nIn fact, the Egyptians believed that all ritual actions achieved their effect through ḥkꜣ. It was a fundamental force that rituals were meant to manipulate. Using magic, people, objects, and actions were equated with counterparts in the divine realm and thus were believed to affect events among the gods. In the daily offering, for instance, the cult statue, regardless of which deity it represented, was associated with Osiris, god of the dead. The priest performing the ritual was identified with Horus, the living son of Osiris, who in mythology sustained his father after death through offerings. By magically equating himself with a god in a myth, the priest was able to interact with the temple deity.\n\nOn days of particular religious significance, the daily rituals were replaced with festival observances. Different festivals occurred at different intervals, though most were annual. Their timing was based on the Egyptian civil calendar, which most of the time was far out of step with the astronomical year. Thus, while many festivals had a seasonal origin, their timing lost its connection with the seasons. Most festivals took place at a single temple, but others could involve two or more temples or an entire region of Egypt; a few were celebrated throughout the country. In the New Kingdom and later, the festival calendar at a single temple could include dozens of events, so it is likely that most of these events were observed only by the priests. In those festivals that involved a procession outside the temple, the local population also gathered to watch and to celebrate. These were the most elaborate temple ceremonies, accompanied by the recitation of hymns and the performance of musicians.\nFestival ceremonies entailed reenactment of mythological events or the performance of other symbolic acts, like the cutting of a sheaf of wheat during the harvest-related festival dedicated to the god Min. Many of these ceremonies took place only within the temple building, such as the \"union with the sun disk\" festival practiced in the Late Period and afterwards, when cult statues were carried to the temple roof at the start of the New Year to be enlivened by the rays of the sun. In festivals that involved a procession, priests carried the divine image out from the sanctuary, usually in its model barque, to visit another site. The barque might travel entirely on land or be loaded onto a real boat to travel on the river.\n\nThe purpose of the god's visit varied. Some were tied to the ideology of kingship. In the Opet Festival, an extremely important ceremony during the New Kingdom, the image of Amun from Karnak visited the form of Amun worshipped at Luxor Temple, and both acted to reaffirm the king's divine rule. Still other celebrations had a funerary character, as in the Beautiful Festival of the Valley, when Amun of Karnak visited the mortuary temples of the Theban Necropolis to visit the kings commemorated there, while ordinary people visited the funerary chapels of their own deceased relatives. Some may have centered on ritual marriages between deities, or between deities and their human consorts, although the evidence that ritual marriage was their purpose is ambiguous. A prominent example is a festival in which an image of Hathor from the Dendera Temple complex was brought annually to visit the Temple of Edfu, the temple of her mythological consort Horus. These varied ceremonies were united by the broad purpose of renewing life among the gods and in the cosmos.\n\nThe gods involved in a festival also received various offerings in much larger quantities than in daily ceremonies. The enormous amounts of food listed in festival texts are unlikely to have been divided among the priests alone, so it is likely that the celebrating commoners also participated in the reversion of these offerings.\n\nSome temples kept sacred animals, which were believed to be manifestations of the temple god's \"ba\" in the same way that cult images were. Each of these sacred animals was kept in the temple and worshipped for a certain length of time, ranging from a year to the lifetime of the animal. At the end of that time, it was replaced with a new animal of the same species, which was selected by a divine oracle or based on specific markings that were supposed to indicate its sacred nature. Among the most prominent of these animals were the Apis, a sacred bull worshipped as a manifestation of the Memphite god Ptah, and the falcon at Edfu who represented the falcon god Horus.\n\nDuring the Late Period, a different form of worship involving animals developed. In this case, laymen paid the priests to kill, mummify, and bury an animal of a particular species as an offering to a god. These animals were not regarded as especially sacred, but as a species they were associated with the god because it was depicted in the form of that animal. The god Thoth, for instance, could be depicted as an ibis and as a baboon, and both ibises and baboons were given to him. Although this practice was distinct from the worship of single divine representatives, some temples kept stocks of animals that could be selected for either purpose. These practices produced large cemeteries of mummified animals, such as the catacombs around the Serapeum of Saqqara where the Apis bulls were buried along with millions of animal offerings.\n\nBy the beginning of the New Kingdom, and quite possibly earlier, the festival procession had become an opportunity for people to seek oracles from the god. Their questions dealt with subjects ranging from the location of a lost object to the best choice for a government appointment. The motions of the barque as it was carried on the bearers' shoulders—making simple gestures to indicate \"yes\" or \"no\", tipping toward tablets on which possible answers were written, or moving toward a particular person in the crowd—were taken to indicate the god's reply. In the Greco-Roman period, and possibly much earlier, oracles were used outside the festival, allowing people to consult them frequently. Priests interpreted the movements of sacred animals or, being asked questions directly, wrote out or spoke answers that they had supposedly received from the god in question. The priests' claim to speak for the gods or interpret their messages gave them great political influence and provided the means for the High Priests of Amun to dominate Upper Egypt during the Third Intermediate Period.\n\nAlthough they were excluded from the formal rituals of the temple, laymen still sought to interact with the gods. There is little evidence of the religious practices of individual people from early Egyptian history, so Egyptologists' understanding of the subject derives mostly from the New Kingdom or later periods. The evidence from those times indicates that while ordinary Egyptians used many venues to interact with the divine, such as household shrines or community chapels, the official temples with their sequestered gods were a major focus for popular veneration.\nUnable to address the cult image directly, laymen still attempted to convey their prayers to it. At times they related messages to priests to deliver to the temple deity; at other times they expressed their piety in the parts of the temple that they could access. Courts, doorways, and hypostyle halls might have spaces designated for public prayer. Sometimes people directed their appeals to the royal colossi, which were believed to act as divine intermediaries. More private areas for devotion were located at the building's outer wall, where large niches served as \"chapels of the hearing ear\" for individuals to speak to the god.\n\nThe Egyptians also interacted with deities through the donation of offerings, ranging from simple bits of jewelry to large and finely carved statues and stelae. Among their contributions were statues that sat in temple courts, serving as memorials to the donors after their deaths and receiving portions of the temple offerings to sustain the donors' spirits. Other statues served as gifts to the temple god, and inscribed stelae conveyed to the resident deity the donors' prayers and messages of thanks. Over the centuries, so many of these statues accumulated within a temple building that priests sometimes moved them out of the way by burying them in caches beneath the floor. Commoners offered simple wooden or clay models as votives. The form of these models may indicate the reason for their donation. Figurines of women are among the most common types of votive figures, and some are inscribed with a prayer for a woman to bear a child.\n\nFestival processions offered a chance for laymen to approach and perhaps even glimpse the cult image in its barque, and for them to receive portions of the god's food. Because the key rituals of any festival still took place within the temple, out of public sight, Egyptologist Anthony Spalinger has questioned whether the processions inspired genuine \"religious feelings\" or were simply seen as occasions for revelry. In any case, the oracular events during festivals provided an opportunity for people to receive responses from the normally isolated deities, as did the other varieties of oracle that developed late in Egyptian history. Temples eventually became a venue for yet another type of divine contact: dreams. The Egyptians saw dreaming as a means of communion with the divine realm, and by the Ptolemaic period many temples provided buildings for ritual incubation. People slept in these buildings in hopes of contacting the temple god. The petitioners often sought a magical solution to sickness or infertility, but at other times they simply sought an answer to a question, receiving the answer through a dream rather than an oracle.\n\nAfter their original religious activities ceased, Egyptian temples suffered slow decay. Many were defaced by Christians trying to erase the remnants of ancient Egyptian religion. Some temple buildings, such as the \"mammisi\" at Dendera or the hypostyle hall at Philae, were adapted into churches or other types of buildings. Most commonly the sites were left disused, as at the Temple of Khnum at Elephantine, while locals carried off their stones to serve as material for new buildings. The dismantling of temples for stone continued well into modern times. Limestone was especially useful as a source of lime, so temples built of limestone were almost all dismantled. Sandstone temples, found mostly in Upper Egypt, were more likely to survive. What humans left intact was still subject to natural weathering. Temples in desert areas could be partly covered by drifts of sand, while those near the Nile, particularly in Lower Egypt, were often buried under layers of river-borne silt. Thus, some major temple sites like Memphis were reduced to ruin, while many temples far from the Nile and centers of population remained mostly intact. With understanding of the hieroglyphic script lost, the information about Egyptian culture that was preserved in the surviving temples lay incomprehensible to the world.\n\nThe situation changed dramatically with the French campaign in Egypt and Syria in 1798, which brought with it a corps of scholars to examine the surviving ancient monuments. The results of their study inspired a fascination with ancient Egypt throughout Europe. In the early nineteenth century, growing numbers of Europeans traveled to Egypt, both to see the ancient monuments and to collect Egyptian antiquities. Many temple artifacts, from small objects to enormous obelisks, were removed by outside governments and private collectors. This wave of Egyptomania resulted in the rediscovery of temple sites such as Abu Simbel, but artifacts and even whole temples were often treated with great carelessness. The discoveries of the period made possible the decipherment of Egyptian hieroglyphs and the beginnings of Egyptology as a scholarly discipline.\nNineteenth-century Egyptologists studied the temples intensively, but their emphasis was on collection of artifacts to send to their own countries, and their slipshod excavation methods often did further harm. Slowly the antique-hunting attitude toward Egyptian monuments gave way to careful study and preservation efforts. The government also took greater control of archaeological activity as Egypt's independence from foreign powers increased.\n\nYet even in recent times the ancient remains have faced threats. The most severe was the construction of the Aswan Dam in the 1960s, which threatened to submerge the temples in what had been Lower Nubia beneath the newly formed Lake Nasser. A major effort by the United Nations disassembled some of the threatened monuments and rebuilt them on higher ground, and the Egyptian government gave several of the others, such as the Temple of Dendur, Temple of Taffeh, and Temple of Debod, as gifts to nations that had contributed to the preservation effort. Nevertheless, several other temples vanished beneath the lake.\n\nToday there are dozens of sites with substantial temple remains, although many more once existed, and none of the major temples in Lower or Middle Egypt are well preserved. Those that are well preserved, such as Karnak, Luxor, and Abu Simbel, draw tourists from around the world and are therefore a key attraction for the Egyptian tourist industry, which is a major sector of the Egyptian economy. Three temple sites—Ancient Thebes with its Necropolis, Memphis and its Necropolis, and the Nubian Monuments from Abu Simbel to Philae—have been designated by UNESCO as World Heritage Sites. The Egyptian government is working to balance the demands of tourism against the need to protect ancient monuments from the harmful effects of tourist activity. Archaeological work continues as well, as many temple remains still lie buried and many extant temples are not yet fully studied. Some damaged or destroyed structures, like the temples of Akhenaten, are even being reconstructed. These efforts are improving modern understanding of Egyptian temples, which in turn allow better understanding of ancient Egyptian society as a whole.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4637613", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4637613", "title": "Envera Selimović", "text": "Envera Selimović\n\nEnvera Selimović, a national of Bosnia and Herzegovina, is the United Nations Department of Public Information Representative in Azerbaijan. At her appointment, she was described as \"one of Bosnia’s best-known and highly respected journalists.\"\nSelimović graduated Politology at the Faculty of Political Sciences in Sarajevo. After graduation, she worked at \"TV Sarajevo\", \"Radio \"202\"\" and then at the \"Radio Sarajevo\".\n\nIn 1992 when Bosnia war broke out, Envera returned to working on television and for almost three years worked as a principal network news anchor and chief foreign editor for \"Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina\".\n\nAt the end of 1994 she was assigned to work in the United States of America as the head of the New York/Washington, D.C. Bureau for Radio and Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina.\n\nSelimović was awarded the scholarship for the postgraduate studies by the American government, and she holds master's degree in international public policy from The Paul H. Nitze School of Advanced International Studies (SAIS) at Johns Hopkins University, Washington.\n\nBy the end of 1999, Selimović returned to Sarajevo, and for the next three years she worked at Television of Bosnia and Herzegovina creating a show simply called \"The Interview\". Aside from being remembered by exclusive interviews with then most famous leaders of the country, region, and the whole world, she also hosted numerous world intellectuals and philosophers.\n\nIn 2001, Selimovic was declared Bosnia's female journalist of the year.\n\nIn March 2003, she left Bosnia and Herzegovina and moved to Tbilisi to perform the job of Spokesperson for the United Nations Observer Mission in Georgia (UNOMIG). For the next three years she was responsible for the Mission’s strategic communications and advising the Head of Mission on public information initiatives and activities.\n\nIn October 2006, UN Secretary-General, Kofi Annan, appointed Selimović as the Representative of the UN Department of Public Information Office in Baku, Azerbaijan.\n\n"}
{"id": "40157171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40157171", "title": "Fuglse Church", "text": "Fuglse Church\n\nFuglse Church is a parish church located some south of Maribo on the Danish island of Lolland. The original Romanesque church was almost totally rebuilt in the Renaissance style in the late 16th century. Standing prominently on a hilltop, the red-plastered building has a tall spire roofed in shingles.\n\nThe medieval church was originally dedicated to St Lawrence but after it was rebuilt in 1595 it was dedicated to the Holy Trinity. After the Reformation it was owned by the Crown until it was transferred to the prefect Henning Ulrich von Lützow in 1689 who gained ownership of nearby Søholt the following year. It later came into the ownership of Raben Huitfeld Levetzau til Kærstrup (1835) and then Baron Gottlob Rosenkrantz until it gained independence in 1916.\n\nThe old Romanesque church fell into such a bad state of repair that it was almost completely rebuilt by Henning Gøye til Kærstrup og Søholt in 1595. Now in the Renaissance style, the church consists of a chancel, nave and tower, with burial chapels to the north and south. Unusually, the north chapel is three-sided. More recently, a small porch was built on the west side of the tower. The chancel, nave and chapels are built of roughly-hued fieldstone with some brick while the tower is in red brick.\n\nThe Renaissance triptych altarpiece (1610), partly reconstructed from an earlier five-winged Late-Gothic work, contains a copy of Jacob Jordaens' \"Adoration of the Shepherds\" from 1618. The pulpit () bears copies of Bertel Thorvaldsen's carved figures of Peter, Paul and John which were added later. There are epitaphs to Henning Ulrich von Lützow and his two wives at the entrance to the burial chapel on the north side of the nave. The rather primitive baptismal font from the Romanesque period is in granite.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5992080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5992080", "title": "Guitar technician", "text": "Guitar technician\n\nA guitar technician (or 'guitar tech') is a member of a music ensemble's road crew who maintains and sets up the musical equipment for one or more guitarists. Depending on the type and size of band, the guitar tech may be responsible for stringing, tuning, and adjusting electric guitars and acoustic guitars, and maintaining and setting up guitar amplifiers and other related electronic equipment such as effect pedals.\n\nOnce the guitar equipment has been set up onstage, the guitar tech does a soundcheck to ensure that the equipment is working well. If there are any problems, the guitar tech replaces or repairs the faulty components or equipment. Since guitar techs need to soundcheck the instruments and amplifiers, they must have basic guitar-playing skills, a musical \"ear\" for tuning, and a familiarity with the way guitars, amplifiers, and effect pedals are supposed to sound in the style of music of their band. \n\nGuitar techs learn their craft either \"on the job\", by working in a range of music, sound engineering, and instrument repair jobs; by completing a guitar repair program at a college or lutherie school; or from a combination of these two routes. The salaries and conditions of work for guitar techs vary widely, depending on whether a guitar tech is working for a minor or regional touring bar band or a major international touring act.\n\nThe duties of a guitar technician depend on the type of band they are working for, and on a range of other factors such as the size and nature of the stage show and the length of the show. Guitar technicians who work for an acoustic band, such as a folk group or bluegrass ensemble may be responsible for setting up and stringing, and tuning a range of stringed, fretted instruments including acoustic guitars, dobros, and mandolins. A guitar tech for a heavy metal band, on the other hand, may focus mainly on electric guitars, guitar amplifiers, and effects pedals. A guitar tech may change the sequence of effects pedals or alter the settings on effects pedals during the show, to assist the guitarist in creating different tone colours or sounds. For example, a guitarist may ask the guitar tech to connect a chorus effect and reverb before a guitar solo. In an indie rock band, a guitar technician would likely configure the equipment to evoke through tone a modern yet historically evocative sound. In an acid rock band, a guitar tech might have to manipulate the controls on a ring modulator or a rotating Leslie speaker cabinet to create unusual sounds while the guitarist is performing.\nOnce the guitars have been tuned with an electronic tuner and strummed to ensure that they are in tune, the guitar tech usually sets up the different guitars on guitar racks, ensures that the leather or nylon straps are properly connected, and that the patch cords are plugged in properly. During the show, the guitar tech hands instruments to the guitarist or guitarists according to the types of guitar that are required in the songs that they are playing. For example, a hard rock guitarist may use a \"flying-V\" guitar for a fast song, and then switch to an acoustic 12-string guitar for a soft ballad. The guitar tech retunes all of the instruments before they are used, because even if an instrument was perfectly in tune during the soundcheck, the heat from stage lights and the humidity from the stage conditions may render the instrument slightly out of tune. \n\nAfter each guitar is used, the guitar tech cleans the strings with a cloth and replaces the instrument on a rack. During the show, the tech stands ready to replace any guitars in case a string breaks or if there is an equipment malfunction. The guitar tech may hand fresh towels to the guitarist so that the guitarist can remove sweat from the hands and ensure that the guitarist has ready access to bottles of cool water or other wet beverages. If a guitar technician is working for a guitarist who uses picks, the guitar tech may lay out a variety of picks on a guitar amplifier or tape the picks to the mic stands with double-sided tape, so that they are within easy reach. At the end of the show, the guitar tech disconnects all of the patch cords, cleans the instruments and puts them back into their cases.\n\nThe guitar tech also might perform any of a variety of maintenance tasks, such as checking that the string height of the guitars is set properly, modifying (\"dressing\") the height and arc of the frets, adjusting the intonation of the instruments, checking that tubes (valves) on tube amplifiers are working properly, and that cables are in good condition and free from crackles and hum caused by nicks and abrasions in the shielding or cable insulation. Techs also check the batteries on \"outboard\" devices — effects boxes, tuners, and pre-amps — and wireless transmitters, and change them as necessary. Depending on the size of a band's road crew, the guitar tech may either do this maintenance him- or herself, or, in a large touring act, delegate tasks to more-junior personnel.\n\nThe guitar tech does a basic soundcheck with the different guitars, amplifiers, and effects, to ensure that the equipment is functioning properly and that all of the connections between the equipment (which are made with patch cords) are plugged in correctly. This may be as simple as plugging an electric guitar into an amplifier or plugging an acoustic guitar into a DI box and preamp/equalizer. On the other hand, a tech may have to set up ten or more electric guitars, a variety of amplifiers, and connect them to an intricate sequence of effects pedals. \n\nWhen all of the instruments and equipment are set up and soundchecked, if there are problems — crackles, hum, no signal from the guitar, no sound from an amplifier — the tech may have responsibility for troubleshooting to determine the cause or causes. Common problems include damaged patch cords, ground loops in connection between instruments and amplifiers, weak batteries in effects boxes or on-board preamps, bad vacuum tubes in tube amplifiers or overdrive effects, broken electrical connectors or solder joints, speaker voice coils damaged from the previous concert, or equipment damaged during transport. Tuning problems may come from old or dirty strings, damaged or worn machine heads or frets, or mis-adjusted bridges.\n\nA guitar tech is often a \"jack of all trades,\" expected to make simple repairs: resolder a loose wiring connection inside a guitar, replace an amplifier tube, swap out a damaged speaker for a new one, reglue a loose part on an acoustic guitar, or adjust a truss rod. In cases where there is either not enough time to make the repair, or if the equipment is damaged beyond repair, the guitar tech is may be responsible for finding a replacement instrument or part, either by purchasing or renting it from a local music store or by borrowing it from another band. While another member of the road crew may be dispatched to pick up an item, the tech usually writes down which models or brands are acceptable replacements.\n\nOn rare occasions, guitar technicians may be asked to fill in for the guitarist they are teching for.\n\nThe conditions of work for guitar techs vary widely. Some guitar techs for small touring acts may set up guitars for all of the stringed-instrument performers—rhythm guitar, lead guitar, bass, and so on; they may even take on a large variety of tasks beyond guitar tech work, such as helping to set up sound equipment or soundcheck the microphones. On the other hand, guitar techs for major touring bands may be part of a large road crew team that includes amplifier technicians, guitar technicians for each guitarist (rhythm guitarist and lead guitarist), and a variety of people who set up the stage equipment. In a major touring band, a guitar tech's duties might be more narrowly circumscribed. They might only have to set up the guitars for a single performer, and there might be other staff who set up and maintain the amplifiers, effects, and guitar stands, and electronics technicians who solder and repair connections and wiring.\n\nThe salary, benefits, and accommodations of guitar techs vary widely. The first jobs that a guitar tech does may be on a volunteer basis in a garage band or amateur group, to gain experience, or alternatively the guitar tech might work in return for a small cash payment that is more of a symbolic honorarium than a real salary. In regional-level bar bands or minor touring acts, the guitar techs may be paid on a contractual basis during the weeks or months that the group is on tour, and there may not be health or dental benefits. A guitar tech working for this type of band must find other work to fill in months when the band is not on tour. On the other hand, a major touring act may hire a guitar technician as a permanent employee and provide them with a range of benefits. \n\nAccommodations depend on conditions set out in the contract, and the level and status of the group. A guitar tech traveling with a regional-level band may stay in inexpensive motels and receive a modest per diem for restaurant meals. A guitar tech traveling with a major touring band, however, may stay at the same first-class hotels as the star performers and eat catered buffet or restaurant meals. Some bands with substantial road crews may have their own catering crew. Guitar techs for the most famous international guitarists such as Jimmy Page or Tony Iommi can become minor celebrities within the guitar fan community because of their proximity to famous musicians and insider knowledge of how a certain guitarist's unique tone is created.\n\nGuitar technicians must have a broad knowledge of the musical equipment used in the types of bands they work with. At a minimum, this must consist of familiarity with setting up and tuning guitars and making simple adjustments and repairs. As well, guitar techs are often expected to set up, repair, and adjust electronic effects, tuners, pre-amplifiers, amplifiers, and pedalboards. To do these tasks, guitar techs must know about a range of audio engineering and electronics concepts—such as impedance, signal phase (for speakers and microphone wiring), and input voltage for pre-amps and effects. To do simple repairs on electronic gear, a guitar tech may have to know how to use a soldering iron and a multitester, and how to do basic electronics troubleshooting.\n\nAs well, since guitar techs need to soundcheck the instruments and amplifiers, they must have a knowledge of the way guitars and amplifiers are supposed to sound in the style of music of the band. This means that the guitar tech must have an ear for music, and for musical tones and sounds. A guitar tech for a heavy metal band must be able to tell whether distortion from a heavily over-driven tube amp is desirable tube clipping or distortion from a blown speaker or damaged power amp. The distinctions a guitar tech must make can be subtle. For example, a guitar tech replacing a blown tube with a new one may have to ensure that the tube amplifier still has the same \"color\" or \"warmth\" when chords are played through it.\n\nTo check guitar tuning, a guitar tech must be able to play major, minor, and other chords in a variety of keys. Even if the guitar has been tuned with an electronic tuner, the tuning still must be checked by ear, because the equal tempered tuning of a guitar can involve compromise. Guitar tuning can be affected by fret placement and wear, the angle of bridge angle, string age, and other factors. Thus, even if an electronic tuner indicates that a guitar is 100% \"in tune,\" it may still need minor adjustments which are made by ear. \n\nThe training of guitar technicians varies widely. Some guitar technicians have studied music, guitar repair, amplifier maintenance, or electronics repair in college or university. On the other hand, some techs learned these skills informally on the job, or by working their way up through the ranks in a range of musical jobs, from a roadie and sound engineer to a sideman in a bar band. Guitar techs trained on the job may learn their skills by playing in amateur or semi-professional bands as a guitarist or bassist, working for music stores as a guitar repairperson, for clubs or bars as a sound engineer, or by maintaining equipment for PA system rental companies. \n\nA typical career path for becoming a guitar technician via on the job training is to begin by volunteering in a bar band and then working for low wages in a regional touring act or a minor touring act. As they gain experience and add skills, they may seek out better-paying jobs with higher-status touring bands. Once a guitar technician has joined the road crew of a major touring act, they may seek out promotions within this organization, to jobs with greater responsibilities and higher pay. For example, a guitar tech who works as an assistant technician could try to get promoted to a guitar technician for the lead guitarist. A guitar tech who completes a guitar repair program at a college or lutherie school may be able to enter midway up the guitar tech career ladder.\n\nIn the early part of a guitar tech's career, there might be a great deal of mobility between different types of bands and technician roles. While working for minor or regional acts, a guitar tech may be able to work for a country rock bar band and then immediately switch to being the bass tech for a hard rock tribute band, because the tasks are fairly uniform. Career mobility of guitar technicians tends to become more constrained, though, when guitar techs begin to get jobs with high-status professional touring acts from specific genres. When a regional bar band looks for a guitar tech for a summer nightclub tour, there may many guitar techs who could meet the skill requirements. However, if an internationally-known 1960s-style acid rock touring act with a celebrity lead guitarist goes on a major tour, there may be only a handful of guitar techs who have the unique combination of skills for this position.\n\nBass guitar technicians (or \"bass techs\") perform the same functions for a bass guitar player. The bass guitar is a variety of electric guitar pitched below a regular electric guitar, typically by one octave. Many basic elements of the two types of instruments are similar enough—magnetic pickups routed to an electronic amplifier—that a guitar technician is usually able to work as a bass guitar technician if they become familiar with the unique aspects of the electric bass. The electric bass differs from the electric guitar in several respects. To become a bass tech, a person must learn how to set up the string action (height) and adjust the height of the pickups so that the bassist is able to create the tones associated with different bass styles. Depending on the band, these styles might include such as slap and pop, tapping, or upright bass-style playing with the thumb. \n\nAs with guitar techs, a bass tech also sets up the amplification equipment and effects pedals. Due to the lower pitch of the bass guitar, this instrument is amplified with specialized bass instrument amplifiers. While bass guitarists do not usually use as many effects pedals as most guitarists (e.g., reverb, chorus, flanger, etc.), most professional bassists may use a few \"sound conditioner\" effects such as a compressor, limiter, or equalizer. Some bassists also use octave pedals to generate extremely low pitches or bass overdrive pedals that produce a fuzzy, distorted sound. Although these effects function in the same way as regular electric guitar effects, a bass tech must be familiar with the settings and the resulting sounds and tones that are most often used by bass guitarists. A guitar tech who is in the first stages of learning to become a bass tech may know how to set up the bass effects from a technical point of view, but it may take a little longer for them to learn which compressor settings, for example, are associated with different funk or metal styles.\n\nIn some country, rockabilly, or jazz bands, the bass tech might also be responsible for setting up, tuning, and maintaining an upright bass or electric upright bass. In some folk or acoustic bands, the bass technician may also be responsible for maintaining an acoustic bass guitar, which is a larger, bass version of a standard acoustic guitar. More rarely, some bass techs might have to set up a bass synth (e.g., as used by the bassists in some alternative bands) or bass pedal keyboard such as a Moog Taurus pedal, as used by Sting or Led Zeppelin. Both upright basses and acoustic bass guitars usually use piezoelectric pickups rather than magnetic pickups, and in some cases, the instruments may use condenser mics to pick up the higher range sounds. To amplify instruments with piezo transducers and condenser mics, specialized impedance-matching preamplifiers are often required. Also, since both piezoelectric transducers and microphones are more prone to unwanted feedback than magnetic pickups, the bass tech may have to set up a notch filter with a parametric equalizer to reduce the frequency that is feeding back.\n"}
{"id": "47148972", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47148972", "title": "Handicrafts of Kerman", "text": "Handicrafts of Kerman\n\nKerman are types of traditional Iranian artwork relating to the culture and history of Iran from the province of Kerman. Handicrafts include traditional embroidery known as Pateh, carpets, fretwork on wood, jajeems (loosely woven cloth), and decorative copper knives. \n\nKermans have desirable wool for weaving carpets. The popularity of Kerman carpet stems from their design and color. One of the most popular types is the Ravar carpet. Pateh embroidery uses colored thread on the special cloth and used for table cloths or curtains.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "48882452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48882452", "title": "Heimkommen", "text": "Heimkommen\n\nHeimkommen (Homecoming) and the related hashtag #heimkommen is a German commercial video for the supermarket corporation Edeka that went viral in November and December 2015.\n\nIn the commercial, Arthur Nightingale plays a German grandfather faking his own death to reunite his family on Christmas.\n\nThe 1:46-minute commercial shows a well-to-do grandfather receiving messages over the years from his successful children around the world, who call off family get-togethers at Christmas time. Each year he eats his Christmas dinner by himself. Eventually he fakes his own death, and his grieving children and grandchildren travel to his home, only to find him still alive. He tells them, \"I had no other way to bring you together\". After the family unites in a joyful Christmas dinner, the final shot shows the Edeka logo.\n\nArthur Tulloch Nightingale plays the role of the grandfather The advertising agency is Jung von Matt. Alex Feil directed the clip, which was shot in Prague and Bangkok. Florian Lakenmacher of \"Supreme Music\" wrote the song \"Dad\" for it, which is sung by Neele Ternes. The song reached number 43 on the German charts.\n\nEdeka published the commercial on Facebook and YouTube on November 28, 2015. By December 2 it had received 300,000 likes and 500,000 shares on Facebook and over 20 million views on YouTube. , views on YouTube had passed 43 million.\n\nBritish retail chains (compare John Lewis Christmas advert) often use emotional commercials for Christmas, but this had not been the custom in Germany. #heimkommen led on a current chart of such ads with more than 33 million clicks after a week. The video is a showcase for Integrated marketing communications on different channels.\n\nParodies have appeared including: a family angry about the deception killing their grandfather and a Deutsche Bahn image showing Arthur Nightingdale in a train dining car and the caption: \"Lieber Opa, warte nicht bis sie zu Dir kommen\" (Dear Grandpa, don't wait till they come to you). An Italian PR agency reworked the spot shortly after its release with an Italian background; in their version, the nonno expresses fears about his stock of Parmesan cheese deteriorating.\n\n"}
{"id": "510026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=510026", "title": "Heptaméron", "text": "Heptaméron\n\nThe Heptaméron is a collection of 72 short stories written in French by Marguerite of Navarre (1492–1549), published posthumously in 1558. It has the form of a frame narrative and was inspired by \"The Decameron\" of Giovanni Boccaccio. It was originally intended to contain one hundred stories covering ten days just as \"The Decameron\" does, but at Marguerite’s death it was only completed as far as the second story of the eighth day. Many of the stories deal with love, lust, infidelity, and other romantic and sexual matters. One was based on the life of Marguerite de La Rocque, a French noblewoman who was punished by being abandoned with her lover on an island off Quebec.\n\nThe collection first appeared in print in 1558 under the title \"Histoires des amans fortunez\" edited by Pierre Boaistuau, who took considerable liberties with the original version, using only 67 of the stories, many in abbreviated form, and omitting much of the significant material between the stories. He also transposed stories and ignored their grouping into days as envisaged by the author. A second edition by Claude Gruget appeared only a year later in which the editor claimed to have \"restored the order previously confused in the first impression\". Also the prologues and epilogues to each short story left out by Boaistuau were put back and the work was given, for the first time, the title \"Heptaméron\" (from the Greek ἑπτά – \"seven\" and ἡμέρα – \"day\") due to the seven-day time frame into which the first 70 short stories are grouped.\n\nIn the \"Prologue\" to \"The Heptameron\", Parlamente, having obtained her husband Hircan's permission to do so, makes bold to ask Lady Oisille to devise an appropriate means by which the company of stranded guests, who are waiting for the building of a bridge to be completed and who are beset by a series of natural calamities and criminal actions that keeps them virtual prisoners in an abbey, may amuse themselves. A devout Christian, the lady suggests that they read the Bible. However, Hircan says that they are young enough to need other diversions as well. Parlamente suggests that those who want to write stories after the manner of Boccaccio, do so, sharing them with the others in the afternoon, after Scriptures are read in the morning. (Marguerite herself was a protector of François Rabelais, who dedicated the third volume of his book, \"Gargantua and Pantagruel\", to her.) It will take 10 days to complete the bridge, and, each day, in a shady grove in a meadow, the writers will share 10 tales, telling a total of 100 stories. The stories will be published, if the audience likes them, and be presented to the listeners as presents.\n\nLady Oisille agrees to Parlamente's recommendation, provided that the stories are true.\n\nSaffrendent tells the third story, which is set in Naples, Italy, during the reign of King Alfonso.\n\nDuring a carnival, the king visits his subjects’ homes as they vie to provide him the best hospitality. As he visits a happily married young couple, he is smitten by the wife’s beauty, and he sends her husband to Rome for a couple weeks on trumped-up business. While the husband is away, the king succeeds in seducing the wife. After a while, the husband becomes suspicious of his wife’s fidelity. He bides his time in silence, hoping for the opportunity to avenge himself.\n\nHe convinces the queen that he loves her and that she deserves to be treated better by her husband, who dishonors her in cuckolding him. They agree to an adulterous affair between themselves, so that the nobleman cuckolds the king who has cuckolded him. Whenever the nobleman visits his country estates, the king visits his wife, but secretly lusts after men. Instead of going to his estates, the nobleman now goes to the castle to dally with the queen, while the king commits adultery with his wife. The affairs continue for years, well into the couples’ old age.\n\nLike many stories of this sort, Saffredent’s tale deals with the theme of cuckoldry and depends on both dramatic and situational irony for its plot and effects.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10783", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10783", "title": "History of film", "text": "History of film\n\nAlthough the start of the history of film is not clearly defined, the commercial, public screening of ten of Lumière brothers' short films in Paris on 28 December 1895 can be regarded as the breakthrough of projected cinematographic motion pictures. There had been earlier cinematographic results and screenings but these lacked either the quality or the momentum that propelled the cinématographe Lumière into a worldwide success.\n\nSoon film production companies were established all over the world. The first decade of motion picture saw film moving from a novelty to an established mass entertainment industry.\n\nThe earliest films were in black and white, under a minute long and without recorded sound.\n\nDuring the 1890s films became several minutes long and started to consist of several shots. The first film studios were built in 1897. The first rotating camera for taking panning shots was built in 1898. Special effects were introduced and film continuity, involving action moving from one sequence into another, began to be used.\n\nIn the 1900s, continuity of action across successive shots was achieved and the first close-up shot was introduced (some claim D. W. Griffith was the inventor). Most films of this period were what came to be called \"chase films\". The first successful permanent theatre showing only films was \"The Nickelodeon\" in Pittsburgh in 1905. The first feature length multi-reel film was a 1906 Australian production. By 1910, actors began to receive screen credit for their roles, opening the way for the creation of film stars. Regular newsreels were exhibited from 1910 and soon became a popular way for finding out the news. From about 1910, American films had the largest share of the market in Australia and in all European countries except France.\n\nNew film techniques were introduced in this period including the use of artificial lighting, fire effects and low-key lighting (i.e. lighting in which most of the frame is dark) for enhanced atmosphere during sinister scenes. As films grew longer, specialist writers were employed to simplify more complex stories derived from novels or plays into a form that could be contained on one reel and be easier to be understood by the audience an audience that was new to this form of storytelling. Genres began to be used as categories; the main division was into comedy and drama but these categories were further subdivided. During the First World War there was a complex transition for the film industry. The exhibition of films changed from short one-reel programs to feature films. Exhibition venues became larger and began charging higher prices. By 1914, continuity cinema was the established mode of commercial cinema. One of the advanced continuity techniques involved an accurate and smooth transition from one shot to another.\n\nD. W. Griffith had the highest standing among American directors in the industry, because of the dramatic excitement he conveyed to the audience through his films. The American film industry, or \"Hollywood\", as it was becoming known after its new geographical center in Hollywood, a neighborhood in Los Angeles, California, gained the position it has held, more or less, ever since: film factory for the world and exporting its product to most countries. By the 1920s, the United States reached what is still its era of greatest-ever output, producing an average of 800 \"feature\" films annually, or 82% of the global total (Eyman, 1997). During late 1927, Warner's released \"The Jazz Singer\", with the first synchronized dialogue (and singing) in a feature film. By the end of 1929, Hollywood was almost all-talkie, with several competing sound systems (soon to be standardized). Sound saved the Hollywood studio system in the face of the Great Depression (Parkinson, 1995).\n\nThe desire for wartime propaganda created a renaissance in the film industry in Britain, with realistic war dramas. The onset of American involvement in World War II also brought a proliferation of films as both patriotism and propaganda. The House Un-American Activities Committee investigated Hollywood in the early 1950s. During the immediate post-war years the cinematic industry was also threatened by television and the increasing popularity of the medium meant that some film theatres would bankrupt and close. The 1950s was considered a \"Golden Age\" for non-English cinema.\n\n\"Roundhay Garden Scene\" is an 1888 short silent film recorded by French inventor Louis Le Prince. It is believed to be the oldest surviving film in existence, as noted by the \"Guinness Book of Records\".\nThe film \"Sortie de l'usine Lumière de Lyon\" (1895) by French Louis Lumière is considered the \"first true motion picture\".\n\nFilm as an art form has drawn on several earlier traditions in the fields such as (oral) storytelling, literature, theatre and visual arts. Forms of art and entertainment that had already featured moving and/or projected images include:\n\nSome ancient sightings of gods and spirits may have been conjured up by means of (concave) mirrors, camera obscura or unknown projectors. By the 16th century necromantic ceremonies and the conjuring of ghostly apparitions by charlatan \"magicians\" and \"witches\" seemed commonplace. The very first magic lantern shows seem to have continued this tradition with images of death, monsters and other scary figures. Around 1790 this was developed into multi-media ghost shows known as phantasmagoria that could feature mechanical slides, rear projection, mobile projectors, superimposition, dissolves, live actors, smoke (sometimes to project images upon), odors, sounds and even electric shocks. While the first magic lantern images seem to have been intended to scare audiences, soon all sorts of subjects appeared and the lantern was not only used for storytelling but also for education. In the 19th century several new and popular magic lantern techniques were developed, including dissolving views and several types of mechanical slides that created dazzling abstract effects (chromatrope, etc.) or that showed for instance falling snow, or the planets and their moons revolving.\n\nIn the 1890s, films were seen mostly via temporary storefront spaces and traveling exhibitors or as acts in vaudeville programs. A film could be under a minute long and would usually present a single scene, authentic or staged, of everyday life, a public event, a sporting event or slapstick. There was little to no cinematic technique, the film was usually black and white and it was without sound.\nThe novelty of realistic moving photographs was enough for a motion picture industry to blossom before the end of the century, in countries around the world. \"The Cinema\" was to offer a cheaper, simpler way of providing entertainment to the masses. Filmmakers could record actors' performances, which then could be shown to audiences around the world. Travelogues would bring the sights of far-flung places, with movement, directly to spectators' hometowns. Movies would become the most popular visual art form of the late Victorian age.\n\nThe Berlin Wintergarten theater hosted an early movie presentation in front of an audience, shown by the Skladanowsky brothers in 1895. The Melbourne Athenaeum started to screen movies in 1896. Movie theaters became popular entertainment venues and social hubs in the early 20th century, much like cabarets and other theaters.\nUntil 1927, motion pictures were produced without sound. This era is referred to as the silent era of film. To enhance the viewers' experience, silent films were commonly accompanied by live musicians in an orchestra, a theatre organ, and sometimes sound effects and even commentary spoken by the showman or projectionist. In most countries, intertitles came to be used to provide dialogue and narration for the film, thus dispensing with narrators, but in Japanese cinema human narration remained popular throughout the silent era. The technical problems were resolved by 1923.\n\nIllustrated songs were a notable exception to this trend that began in 1894 in vaudeville houses and persisted as late as the late 1930s in film theaters. Live performance or sound recordings were paired with hand-colored glass slides projected through stereopticons and similar devices. In this way, song narrative was illustrated through a series of slides whose changes were simultaneous with the narrative development. The main purpose of illustrated songs was to encourage sheet music sales, and they were highly successful with sales reaching into the millions for a single song. Later, with the birth of film, illustrated songs were used as filler material preceding films and during reel changes.\n\nThe 1914 \"The Photo-Drama of Creation\" was a non-commercial attempt to combine the motion picture with a combination of slides and synchronize the resulting moving picture with audio. The film included hand-painted slides as well as other previously used techniques. Simultaneously playing the audio while the film was being played with a projector was required. Produced by the Watch Tower Bible and Tract Society of Pennsylvania (Jehovah's Witnesses), this eight–hour bible drama was being shown in 80 cities every day and almost eight million people in the United States and Canada saw the presentation.\n\nWithin eleven years of motion pictures, the films moved from a novelty show to an established large-scale entertainment industry. Films moved from a single shot, completely made by one person with a few assistants, towards films several minutes long consisting of several shots, which were made by large companies in something like industrial conditions.\n\nBy 1900, the first motion pictures that can be considered as \"films\" emerged, and film-makers began to introduce basic editing techniques and film narrative.\n\nEarly movie cameras were fastened to the head of a tripod with only simple levelling devices provided. These cameras were effectively fixed during the course of a shot, and the first camera movements were the result of mounting a camera on a moving vehicle. The Lumière brothers shot a scene from the back of a train in 1896.\n\nThe first rotating camera for taking panning shots was built by Robert W. Paul in 1897, on the occasion of Queen Victoria's Diamond Jubilee. He used his camera to shoot the procession in one shot. His device had the camera mounted on a vertical axis that could be rotated by a worm gear driven by turning a crank handle, and Paul put it on general sale the next year. Shots taken using such a \"panning\" head were also referred to as 'panoramas' in the film catalogues.\n\nGeorges Méliès built one of the first film studios in May 1897. It had a glass roof and three glass walls constructed after the model of large studios for still photography, and it was fitted with thin cotton cloths that could be stretched below the roof to diffuse the direct rays of the sun on sunny days. Beginning in 1896, Méliès would go on to produce, direct, and distribute over 500 short films. The majority of these films were short, one-shot films completed in one take. Méliès drew many comparisons between film and the stage, which was apparent in his work. He realized that film afforded him the ability (via his use of time lapse photography) to \"produce visual spectacles not achievable in the theater.\n\n\"The Execution of Mary Stuart\", produced by the Edison Company for viewing with the Kinetoscope, showed Mary Queen of Scots being executed in full view of the camera. The effect was achieved by replacing the actor with a dummy for the final shot. Georges Méliès also utilized this technique in the making of \"Escamotage d'un dame chez Robert-Houdin (The Vanishing Lady)\". The woman is seen to vanish through the use of stop motion techniques.\nThe other basic technique for trick cinematography was the double exposure of the film in the camera. This was pioneered by George Albert Smith in July 1898 in England. The set was draped in black, and after the main shot, the negative was re-exposed to the overlaid scene. His \"The Corsican Brothers\" was described in the catalogue of the Warwick Trading Company in 1900: \"By extremely careful photography the ghost appears *quite transparent*. After indicating that he has been killed by a sword-thrust, and appealing for vengeance, he disappears. A 'vision' then appears showing the fatal duel in the snow.”\n\nG.A. Smith also initiated the special effects technique of reverse motion. He did this by repeating the action a second time, while filming it with an inverted camera, and then joining the tail of the second negative to that of the first. The first films made using this device were \"Tipsy, Topsy, Turvy\" and \"The Awkward Sign Painter\". The earliest surviving example of this technique is Smith's \"The House That Jack Built\", made before September 1900.\n\nCecil Hepworth took this technique further, by printing the negative of the forwards motion backwards frame by frame, so producing a print in which the original action was exactly reversed. To do this he built a special printer in which the negative running through a projector was projected into the gate of a camera through a special lens giving a same-size image. This arrangement came to be called a \"projection printer\", and eventually an \"optical printer\".\n\nThe use of different camera speeds also appeared around 1900 in the films of Robert W. Paul and Hepworth. Paul shot scenes from \"On a Runaway Motor Car through Piccadilly Circus\" (1899) with the camera turning very slowly. When the film was projected at the usual 16 frames per second, the scenery appeared to be passing at great speed. Hepworth used the opposite effect in \"The Indian Chief and the Seidlitz Powder\" (1901). The Chief's movements are sped up by cranking the camera much faster than 16 frames per second. This gives what we would call a \"slow motion\" effect.\n\nThe first films to consist of more than one shot appeared toward the end of the 19th century, a notable example was the French film of the life of Jesus Christ, \"La vie du Christ (The Birth, the Life and the Death of Christ)\", by Alice Guy. These weren't represented as a continuous film, the separate scenes were interspersed with lantern slides, a lecture, and live choral numbers, to increase the running time of the spectacle to about 90 minutes. Another example of this is the reproductions of scenes from the Greco-Turkish war, made by Georges Méliès in 1897. Although each scene was sold separately, they were shown one after the other by the exhibitors. Even Méliès' \"Cendrillon (Cinderella)\" of 1898 contained no action moving from one shot to the next one. To understand what was going on in the film the audience had to know their stories beforehand, or be told them by a presenter.\nReal film continuity, involving action moving from one sequence into another, is attributed to British film pioneer Robert W. Paul's \"Come Along, Do!\", made in 1898 and one of the first films to feature more than one shot. In the first shot, an elderly couple is outside an art exhibition having lunch and then follow other people inside through the door. The second shot shows what they do inside. Paul's 'Cinematograph Camera No. 1' of 1895 was the first camera to feature reverse-cranking, which allowed the same film footage to be exposed several times and thereby to create super-positions and multiple exposures. This technique was first used in his 1901 film \"Scrooge, or, Marley's Ghost\".\n\nThe further development of action continuity in multi-shot films continued in 1899 at the Brighton School in England. In the latter part of that year, George Albert Smith made \"The Kiss in the Tunnel\". This started with a shot from a \"phantom ride\" at the point at which the train goes into a tunnel, and continued with the action on a set representing the interior of a railway carriage, where a man steals a kiss from a woman, and then cuts back to the phantom ride shot when the train comes out of the tunnel. A month later, the Bamforth company in Yorkshire made a restaged version of this film under the same title, and in this case they filmed shots of a train entering and leaving a tunnel from beside the tracks, which they joined before and after their version of the kiss inside the train compartment.\nIn 1900, continuity of action across successive shots was definitively established by George Albert Smith and James Williamson, who also worked in Brighton. In that year Smith made \"As Seen Through a Telescope\", in which the main shot shows street scene with a young man tying the shoelace and then caressing the foot of his girlfriend, while an old man observes this through a telescope. There is then a cut to close shot of the hands on the girl's foot shown inside a black circular mask, and then a cut back to the continuation of the original scene. Even more remarkable is James Williamson's \"Attack on a China Mission Station\" (1900). The first shot shows Chinese Boxer rebels at the gate; it then cuts to the missionary family in the garden, where a fight ensues. The wife signals to British sailors from the balcony, who come and rescue them. The film also used the first \"reverse angle\" cut in film history.\n\nG.A Smith pioneered the use of the close-up shot in his 1900 films \"As Seen Through a Telescope\" and \"Grandma's Reading Glass\". He further developed the ideas of breaking a scene shot in one place into a series of shots taken from different camera positions over the next couple of years, starting with \"The Little Doctors\" of 1901. In a series of films he produced at this time, he also introduced the use of subjective and objective point-of-view shots, the creation of dream-time and the use of reversing. He summed up his work in \"Mary Jane's Mishap\" of 1903, with repeated cuts in to a close shot of a housemaid fooling around, along with superimpositions and other devices, before abandoning film-making to invent the Kinemacolor system of colour cinematography. His films were the first to establish the basics of coherent narrative and what became known as film language, or \"film grammar\".\n\nJames Williamson concentrated on making films taking action from one place shown in one shot to the next shown in another shot in films like \"Stop Thief!\", made in 1901, and many others. He also experimented with the close-up, and made perhaps the most extreme one of all in \"The Big Swallow\", when his character approaches the camera and appears to swallow it. These two film makers of the Brighton School also pioneered the editing of the film; they tinted their work with color and used trick photography to enhance the narrative. By 1900, their films were extended scenes of up to 5 minutes long.\n\nMost films of this period were what came to be called \"chase films\". These were inspired by James Williamson's \"Stop Thief!\" of 1901, which showed a tramp stealing a leg of mutton from a butcher's boy in the first shot, then being chased through the second shot by the butcher's boy and assorted dogs, and finally being caught by the dogs in the third shot. Several British films made in the first half of 1903 extended the chase method of film construction. These included \"An Elopement à la Mode\" and \"The Pickpocket: A Chase Through London\", made by Alf Collins for the British branch of the French Gaumont company, \"Daring Daylight Burglary\", made by Frank Mottershaw at the Sheffield Photographic Company, and \"Desperate Poaching Affray\", made by William Haggar. Haggar in particular innovated the first extant panning shots; the poachers are chased by gamekeepers and police officers and the camera pans along, creating a sense of urgency and speed. His films were also recognised for their intelligent use of depth of staging and screen edges, while film academic Noël Burch praised Haggar's effective use of off-screen space. He was also one of the first film makers to purposefully introduce violence for entertainment; in \"Desperate Poaching Affray\" the villains are seen firing guns at their pursuers.\nOther filmmakers took up all these ideas including the American Edwin S. Porter, who started making films for the Edison Company in 1901. Porter, a projectionist, was hired by Thomas Edison to develop his new projection model known as the Vitascope. Porter wanted to develop a style of filmmaking that would move away from the one-shot short films into a \"story-telling [narrative]\" style. When he began making longer films in 1902, he put a dissolve between every shot, just as Georges Méliès was already doing, and he frequently had the same action repeated across the dissolves. His film, \"The Great Train Robbery\" (1903), had a running time of twelve minutes, with twenty separate shots and ten different indoor and outdoor locations. He used cross-cutting editing method to show simultaneous action in different places. The time continuity in \"The Great Train Robbery\" was actually more confusing than that in the films it was modeled on, but nevertheless it was a greater success than them due to its Wild West violence. \"The Great Train Robbery\" served as one of the vehicles that would launch the film medium into mass popularity.\n\nThe Pathé company in France also made imitations and variations of Smith and Williamson's films from 1902 onwards using cuts between the shots, which helped to standardize the basics of film construction. An influential French film of the period was Méliès's 14-minute-long \"A Trip to the Moon\". It was extremely popular at the time of its release, and is the best-known of the hundreds of films made by Méliès. It was one of the first known science fiction films, and used innovative animation and special effects, including the well-known image of the spaceship landing in the Moon's eye. The sheer volume of Pathé's production led to their filmmakers giving a further precision and polish to the details of film continuity.\n\nThe first use of animation in movies was in 1899, with the production of the short film Matches: An Appeal by British film pioneer Arthur Melbourne-Cooper- a thirty-second long stop-motion animated piece intended to encourage the audience to send matches to British troops fighting the Boer War. The film contains an appeal to send money to Bryant and May who would then send matches to the troops fighting in South Africa. It was shown in December 1899 at The Empire Theatre in London. This film is the earliest known example of stop-motion animation. Little puppets, constructed of matchsticks, are writing the appeal on a black wall. Their movements are filmed frame by frame, movement by movement.\nThe relative sophistication of this piece was not followed up for some time, with subsequent works in animation being limited to short, two or three frame effects, such as appeared in Edwin Stanton Porter's 1902 short \"Fun in a Bakery Shop\", where a lump of dough was made to smile over the course of a three-frame sequence. Works rivaling the British short in length did not appear until 1905, when Edwin Porter made \"How Jones Lost His Roll\", and \"The Whole Dam Family and the Dam Dog\". Both of these films had intertitles which were formed by the letters moving into place from a random scattering to form the words of the titles. This was done by exposing the film one frame at a time, and moving the letters a little bit towards their final position between each exposure. This is what has come to be called \"single frame animation\" or \"object animation\", and it needs a slightly adapted camera that exposes only one frame for each turn of the crank handle, rather than the usual eight frames per turn.\nIn 1906, Albert Edward Smith and James Stuart Blackton at Vitagraph Studios took the next step, and in their \"Humorous Phases of Funny Faces\", what appear to be cartoon drawings of people move from one pose to another. This is done for most of the length of this film by moving jointed cut-outs of the figures frame by frame between the exposures, just as Porter moved his letters. However, there is a very short section of the film where things are made to appear to move by altering the drawings themselves from frame to frame, which is how standard animated cartoons have since been made up to today.\n\nThe technique of single frame animation was further developed in 1907 by Edwin S. Porter in \"The Teddy Bears\" and by J. Stuart Blackton with \"Work Made Easy\". In the first of these the toy bears were made to move, apparently on their own, and in the latter film building tools were made to perform construction tasks without human intervention, by using frame-by-frame animation. The technique got to Europe almost immediately, and Segundo de Chomon and others at Pathé took it further, adding clay animation, in which sculptures were deformed from one thing into another thing frame by frame in \"Sculpture moderne\" (1908), and then Pathé made the next step to the animation of silhouette shapes. Also in France, Émile Cohl fully developed drawn animation in a series of films starting with \"Fantasmagorie\" (1908), in which humans and objects drawn as outline figures went through a series of remarkable interactions and transformations. In the United States the response was from the famous strip cartoon artist Winsor McCay, who drew much more realistic animated figures going through smoother, more naturalistic motion in a series of films starting with the film \"Little Nemo\", made for Vitagraph in 1911. In the next few years various others took part in this development of animated cartoons in the United States and elsewhere.\n\nThe world's first animated feature film was \"El Apóstol\" (1917), made by Italian-Argentine cartoonist Quirino Cristiani utilizing cutout animation. Cristiani also directed the first animated feature film with sound, \"Peludópolis\", released with a vitaphone sound-on-disc synchronization system soundtrack. Unfortunately, a fire that destroyed producer Federico Valle's film studio incinerated the only known copies of the movies, and they are now considered as lost films.\n\nIn 1932, the first short animated film created entirely with technicolor (the trichromatic procedure (green, red, blue), whose use required a triple photographic impression, incorporation of chromatic filters and cameras of enormous dimensions) was Walt Disney's \"Flowers and Trees\", directed by Burt Gillett.\n\nFilms at the time were no longer than one reel, although some multi-reel films had been made on the life of Christ in the first few years of cinema. The first feature length multi-reel film in the world was the 1906 Australian production called \"The Story of the Kelly Gang\".\n\nIt traced the life of the legendary infamous outlaw and bushranger Ned Kelly (1855–1880) and ran for more than an hour with a reel length of approximately 4,000 feet (1,200 m). It was first shown at the Athenaeum Hall in Collins Street, Melbourne, Australia on 26 December 1906 and in the UK in January 1908.\n\nThe first successful permanent theatre showing only films was \"The Nickelodeon\", which was opened in Pittsburgh in 1905. By then there were enough films several minutes long available to fill a programme running for at least half an hour, and which could be changed weekly when the local audience became bored with it. Other exhibitors in the United States quickly followed suit, and within a couple of years there were thousands of these nickelodeons in operation. The American experience led to a worldwide boom in the production and exhibition of films from 1906 onwards.\n\nBy 1907 purpose-built cinemas for motion pictures were being opened across the United States, Britain and France. The films were often shown with the accompaniment of music provided by a pianist, though there could be more musicians. There were also a very few larger cinemas in some of the biggest cities. Initially, the majority of films in the programmes were Pathé films, but this changed fairly quickly as the American companies cranked up production. The programme was made up of just a few films, and the show lasted around 30 minutes. The reel of film, of maximum length , which usually contained one individual film, became the standard unit of film production and exhibition in this period. The programme was changed twice or more a week, but went up to five changes of programme a week after a couple of years. In general, cinemas were set up in the established entertainment districts of the cities. In 1907, Pathé began renting their films to cinemas through film exchanges rather than selling the films outright.\nBy about 1910, actors began to receive screen credit for their roles, and the way to the creation of film stars was opened. Films were increasingly longer, and began to feature proper plots and development.\n\nThe litigation over patents between all the major American film-making companies led to the formation of a trust to control the American film business, with each company in the trust being allocated production quotas (two reels a week for the biggest ones, one reel a week for the smaller). However, although 6,000 exhibitors signed up to the trust, about 2,000 others did not and began to fund new film producing companies. By 1912 the independents had nearly half of the market and the government defeated the trust by initiating anti-trust action at the same time.\n\nIn the early 20th century, before Hollywood, the motion picture industry was based in Fort Lee, New Jersey across the Hudson River from New York City. In need of a winter headquarters, moviemakers were attracted to Jacksonville, Florida due to its warm climate, exotic locations, excellent rail access, and cheaper labor, earning the city the title of \"The Winter Film Capital of the World.\" New York-based Kalem Studios was the first to open a permanent studio in Jacksonville in 1908. Over the course of the next decade, more than 30 silent film companies established studios in town, including Metro Pictures (later MGM), Edison Studios, Majestic Films, King Bee Film Company, Vim Comedy Company, Norman Studios, Gaumont Studios and the Lubin Manufacturing Company. Comedic actor and Georgia native Oliver \"Babe\" Hardy began his motion picture career here in 1914. He starred in over 36 short silent films his first year acting. With the closing of Lubin in early 1915, Oliver moved to New York then New Jersey to find film jobs. Acquiring a job with the Vim Company in early 1915, he returned to Jacksonville in the spring of 1917 before relocating to Los Angeles in October 1917. The first motion picture made in Technicolor and the first feature-length color movie produced in the United States, The Gulf Between, was also filmed on location in Jacksonville in 1917.\n\nJacksonville was especially important to the African American film industry. One notable individual in this regard is the European American producer Richard Norman, who created a string of films starring black actors in the vein of Oscar Micheaux and the Lincoln Motion Picture Company. In contrast to the degrading parts offered in certain white films such as The Birth of a Nation, Norman and his contemporaries sought to create positive stories featuring African Americans in what he termed \"splendidly assuming different roles.\"\n\nJacksonville's mostly conservative residents, however, objected to the hallmarks of the early movie industry, such as car chases in the streets, simulated bank robberies and fire alarms in public places, and even the occasional riot. In 1917, conservative Democrat John W. Martin was elected mayor on the platform of taming the city's movie industry. By that time, southern California was emerging as the major movie production center, thanks in large part to the move of film pioneers like William Selig and D.W. Griffith to the area. These factors quickly sealed the demise of Jacksonville as a major film destination.\n\nAnother factor for the industry's move west was that up until 1913, most American film production was still carried out around New York, but due to the monopoly of Thomas A. Edison, Inc.'s film patents and its litigious attempts to preserve it, many filmmakers moved to Southern California, starting with Selig in 1909. The sunshine and scenery was important for the production of Westerns, which came to form a major American film genre with the first cowboy stars, G.M. Anderson (\"Broncho Billy\") and Tom Mix. Selig pioneered the use of (fairly) wild animals from a zoo for a series of exotic adventures, with the actors being menaced or saved by the animals. Kalem Company sent film crews to places in America and abroad to film stories in the actual places they were supposed to have happened. Kalem also pioneered the female action heroine from 1912, with Ruth Roland playing starring roles in their Westerns.\n\nIn France, Pathé retained its dominant position, followed still by Gaumont, and then other new companies that appeared to cater to the film boom. A film company with a different approach was Film d'Art. This was set up at the beginning of 1908 to make films of a serious artistic nature. Their declared programme was to make films using only the best dramatists, artists and actors. The first of these was \"L'Assassinat du Duc de Guise\" (\"The Assassination of the Duc de Guise\"), a historical subject set in the court of Henri III. This film used leading actors from the Comédie-Française, and had a special accompanying score written by Camille Saint-Saëns. The other French majors followed suit, and this wave gave rise to the English-language description of films with artistic pretensions aimed at a sophisticated audience as \"art films\". By 1910, the French film companies were starting to make films as long as two, or even three reels, though most were still one reel long. This trend was followed in Italy, Denmark, and Sweden.\n\nIn Britain, the Cinematograph Act 1909 was the first primary legislation to specifically regulate the film industry. Film exhibitions often took place in temporary venues and the use of highly flammable cellulose nitrate for film, combined with limelight illumination, created a significant fire hazard. The Act specified a strict building code which required, amongst other things, that the projector be enclosed within a fire resisting enclosure.\n\nRegular newsreels were exhibited from 1910 and soon became a popular way for finding out the news the British Antarctic Expedition to the South Pole was filmed for the newsreels as were the suffragette demonstrations that were happening at the same time. F. Percy Smith was an early nature documentary pioneer working for Charles Urban and he pioneered the use of time lapse and micro cinematography in his 1910 documentary on the growth of flowers.\n\nWith the worldwide film boom, yet more countries now joined Britain, France, Germany and the United States in serious film production. In Italy, production was spread over several centres, with Turin being the first and biggest. There, Ambrosio was the first company in the field in 1905, and remained the largest in the country through this period. Its most substantial rival was Cines in Rome, which started producing in 1906. The great strength of the Italian industry was historical epics, with large casts and massive scenery. As early as 1911, Giovanni Pastrone's two-reel \"La Caduta di Troia (The Fall of Troy)\" made a big impression worldwide, and it was followed by even bigger glasses like \"Quo Vadis?\" (1912), which ran for 90 minutes, and Pastrone's \"Cabiria\" of 1914, which ran for two and a half hours.\nItalian companies also had a strong line in slapstick comedy, with actors like André Deed, known locally as \"Cretinetti\", and elsewhere as \"Foolshead\" and \"Gribouille\", achieving worldwide fame with his almost surrealistic gags.\n\nThe most important film-producing country in Northern Europe up until the First World War was Denmark. The Nordisk company was set up there in 1906 by Ole Olsen, a fairground showman, and after a brief period imitating the successes of French and British filmmakers, in 1907 he produced 67 films, most directed by Viggo Larsen, with sensational subjects like \"Den hvide Slavinde (The White Slave)\", \"Isbjørnenjagt (Polar Bear Hunt)\" and \"Løvejagten (The Lion Hunt)\". By 1910, new smaller Danish companies began joining the business, and besides making more films about the white slave trade, they contributed other new subjects. The most important of these finds was Asta Nielsen in \"Afgrunden (The Abyss)\", directed by Urban Gad for Kosmorama, This combined the circus, sex, jealousy and murder, all put over with great conviction, and pushed the other Danish filmmakers further in this direction. By 1912, the Danish film companies were multiplying rapidly.\n\nThe Swedish film industry was smaller and slower to get started than the Danish industry. Here, the important man was Charles Magnusson, a newsreel cameraman for the Svenskabiografteatern cinema chain. He started fiction film production for them in 1909, directing a number of the films himself. Production increased in 1912, when the company engaged Victor Sjöström and Mauritz Stiller as directors. They started out by imitating the subjects favoured by the Danish film industry, but by 1913 they were producing their own strikingly original work, which sold very well.\n\nRussia began its film industry in 1908 with Pathé shooting some fiction subjects there, and then the creation of real Russian film companies by Aleksandr Drankov and Aleksandr Khanzhonkov. The Khanzhonkov company quickly became much the largest Russian film company, and remained so until 1918.\n\nIn Germany, Oskar Messter had been involved in film-making from 1896, but did not make a significant number of films per year until 1910. When the worldwide film boom started, he, and the few other people in the German film business, continued to sell prints of their own films outright, which put them at a disadvantage. It was only when Paul Davidson, the owner of a chain of cinemas, brought Asta Nielsen and Urban Gad to Germany from Denmark in 1911, and set up a production company, Projektions-AG \"Union\" (PAGU), for them, that a change-over to renting prints began. Messter replied with a series of longer films starring Henny Porten, but although these did well in the German-speaking world, they were not particularly successful internationally, unlike the Asta Nielsen films. Another of the growing German film producers just before World War I was the German branch of the French Éclair company, Deutsche Éclair. This was expropriated by the German government, and turned into DECLA when the war started. But altogether, German producers only had a minor part of the German market in 1914.\n\nOverall, from about 1910, American films had the largest share of the market in all European countries except France, and even in France, the American films had just pushed the local production out of first place on the eve of World War I. So even if the war had not happened, American films may have become dominant worldwide. Although the war made things much worse for European producers, the technical qualities of American films made them increasingly attractive to audiences everywhere.\n\nNew film techniques that were introduced in this period include the use of artificial lighting, fire effects and Low-key lighting (i.e. lighting in which most of the frame is dark) for enhanced atmosphere during sinister scenes.\n\nContinuity of action from shot to shot was also refined, such as in Pathé's \"le Cheval emballé (The Runaway Horse)\" (1907) where cross-cutting between parallel actions is used. D. W. Griffith also began using cross-cutting in the film \"The Fatal Hour\", made in July 1908. Another development was the use of the Point of View shot, first used in 1910 in Vitagraph's \"Back to Nature\". Insert shots were also used for artistic purposes; the Italian film \"La mala planta (The Evil Plant)\", directed by Mario Caserini had an insert shot of a snake slithering over the \"Evil Plant\".\n\nAs films grew longer, specialist writers were employed to simplify more complex stories derived from novels or plays into a form that could be contained on one reel. Genres began to be used as categories; the main division was into comedy and drama, but these categories were further subdivided.\n\nIntertitles containing lines of dialogue began to be used consistently from 1908 onwards, such as in Vitagraph's \"An Auto Heroine; or, The Race for the Vitagraph Cup and How It Was Won\". The dialogue was eventually inserted into the middle of the scene and became commonplace by 1912. The introduction of dialogue titles transformed the nature of film narrative. When dialogue titles came to be always cut into a scene just after a character starts speaking, and then left with a cut to the character just before they finish speaking, then one had something that was effectively the equivalent of a present-day sound film.\n\nThe years of the First World War were a complex transitional period for the film industry. The exhibition of films changed from short one-reel programmes to feature films. Exhibition venues became larger and began charging higher prices.\n\nIn the United States, these changes brought destruction to many film companies, the Vitagraph company being an exception. Film production began to shift to Los Angeles during World War I. The Universal Film Manufacturing Company was formed in 1912 as an umbrella company. New entrants included the Jesse Lasky Feature Play Company, and Famous Players, both formed in 1913, and later amalgamated into Famous Players-Lasky. The biggest success of these years was David Wark Griffith's \"The Birth of a Nation\" (1915). Griffith followed this up with the even bigger \"Intolerance\" (1916), but, due to the high quality of film produced in the US, the market for their films was high.\n\nIn France, film production shut down due to the general military mobilization of the country at the start of the war. Although film production began again in 1915, it was on a reduced scale, and the biggest companies gradually retired from production. Italian film production held up better, although so called \"diva films\", starring anguished female leads were a commercial failure. In Denmark, the Nordisk company increased its production so much in 1915 and 1916 that it could not sell all its films, which led to a very sharp decline in Danish production, and the end of Denmark's importance on the world film scene.\n\nThe German film industry was seriously weakened by the war. The most important of the new film producers at the time was Joe May, who made a series of thrillers and adventure films through the war years, but Ernst Lubitsch also came into prominence with a series of very successful comedies and dramas.\n\nAt this time, studios were blacked out to allow shooting to be unaffected by changing sunlight. This was replaced with floodlights and spotlights. The widespread adoption of irising-in and out to begin and end scenes caught on in this period. This is the revelation of a film shot in a circular mask, which gradually gets larger until it expands beyond the frame. Other shaped slits were used, including vertical and diagonal apertures.\n\nA new idea taken over from still photography was \"soft focus\". This began in 1915, with some shots being intentionally thrown out of focus for expressive effect, as in Mary Pickford starrer \"Fanchon the Cricket\".\n\nIt was during this period that camera effects intended to convey the subjective feelings of characters in a film really began to be established. These could now be done as Point of View (POV) shots, as in Sidney Drew's \"The Story of the Glove\" (1915), where a wobbly hand-held shot of a door and its keyhole represents the POV of a drunken man. The use of anamorphic (in the general sense of distorted shape) images first appears in these years with Abel Gance directed \"la Folie du Docteur Tube (The Madness of Dr. Tube)\". In this film the effect of a drug administered to a group of people was suggested by shooting the scenes reflected in a distorting mirror of the fair-ground type.\n\nSymbolic effects taken over from conventional literary and artistic tradition continued to make some appearances in films during these years. In D. W. Griffith's \"The Avenging Conscience\" (1914), the title \"The birth of the evil thought\" precedes a series of three shots of the protagonist looking at a spider, and ants eating an insect. Symbolist art and literature from the turn of the century also had a more general effect on a small number of films made in Italy and Russia. The supine acceptance of death resulting from passion and forbidden longings was a major feature of this art, and states of delirium dwelt on at length were important as well.\nThe use of insert shots, i.e. close-ups of objects other than faces, had already been established by the Brighton school, but were infrequently used before 1914. It is really only with Griffith's \"The Avenging Conscience\" that a new phase in the use of the Insert Shot starts. As well as the symbolic inserts already mentioned, the film also made extensive use of large numbers of Big Close Up shots of clutching hands and tapping feet as a means of emphasizing those parts of the body as indicators of psychological tension.\n\nAtmospheric inserts were developed in Europe in the late 1910s. This kind of shot is one in a scene which neither contains any of the characters in the story, nor is a Point of View shot seen by one of them. An early example is in Maurice Tourneur directed \"The Pride of the Clan\" (1917), in which there is a series of shots of waves beating on a rocky shore to demonstrate the harsh lives of the fishing folk. Maurice Elvey's \"Nelson; The Story of England's Immortal Naval Hero\" (1919) has a symbolic sequence dissolving from a picture of Kaiser Wilhelm II to a peacock, and then to a battleship.\n\nBy 1914, continuity cinema was the established mode of commercial cinema. One of the advanced continuity techniques involved an accurate and smooth transition from one shot to another. Cutting to \"different\" angles within a scene also became well-established as a technique for dissecting a scene into shots in American films. If the direction of the shot changes by more than ninety degrees, it is called a reverse-angle cutting. The leading figure in the full development of reverse-angle cutting was Ralph Ince in his films, such as \"The Right Girl\" and \"His Phantom Sweetheart\"\n\nThe use of flash-back structures continued to develop in this period, with the usual way of entering and leaving a flash-back being through a dissolve. The Vitagraph company's \"The Man That Might Have Been\" (William J. Humphrey, 1914), is even more complex, with a series of reveries and flash-backs that contrast the protagonist's real passage through life with what might have been, if his son had not died.\n\nAfter 1914, cross cutting between parallel actions came to be used more so in American films than in European ones. Cross-cutting was often used to get new effects of contrast, such as the cross-cut sequence in Cecil B. DeMille's \"The Whispering Chorus\" (1918), in which a supposedly dead husband is having a liaison with a Chinese prostitute in an opium den, while simultaneously his unknowing wife is being remarried in church.\n\nThe general trend in the development of cinema, led from the United States, was towards using the newly developed specifically filmic devices for expression of the narrative content of film stories, and combining this with the standard dramatic structures already in use in commercial theatre. D. W. Griffith had the highest standing amongst American directors in the industry, because of the dramatic excitement he conveyed to the audience through his films. Cecil B. DeMille's \"The Cheat\" (1915), brought out the moral dilemmas facing their characters in a more subtle way than Griffith. DeMille was also in closer touch with the reality of contemporary American life. Maurice Tourneur was also highly ranked for the pictorial beauties of his films, together with the subtlety of his handling of fantasy, while at the same time he was capable of getting greater naturalism from his actors at appropriate moments, as in \"A Girl's Folly\" (1917).\n\nSidney Drew was the leader in developing \"polite comedy\", while slapstick was refined by Fatty Arbuckle and Charles Chaplin, who both started with Mack Sennett's Keystone company. They reduced the usual frenetic pace of Sennett's films to give the audience a chance to appreciate the subtlety and finesse of their movement, and the cleverness of their gags. By 1917 Chaplin was also introducing more dramatic plot into his films, and mixing the comedy with sentiment.\n\nIn Russia, Yevgeni Bauer put a slow intensity of acting combined with Symbolist overtones onto film in a unique way.\n\nIn Sweden, Victor Sjöström made a series of films that combined the realities of people's lives with their surroundings in a striking manner, while Mauritz Stiller developed sophisticated comedy to a new level.\n\nIn Germany, Ernst Lubitsch got his inspiration from the stage work of Max Reinhardt, both in bourgeois comedy and in spectacle, and applied this to his films, culminating in his \"die Puppe\" (\"The Doll\"), \"die Austernprinzessin\" (\"The Oyster Princess\") and \"Madame DuBarry\".\n\nAt the start of the First World War, French and Italian cinema had been the most globally popular. The war came as a devastating interruption to European film industries. The American industry, or \"Hollywood\", as it was becoming known after its new geographical center in California, gained the position it has held, more or less, ever since: film factory for the world and exporting its product to most countries on earth.\n\nBy the 1920s, the United States reached what is still its era of greatest-ever output, producing an average of 800 \"feature\" films annually, or 82% of the global total (Eyman, 1997). The comedies of Charlie Chaplin and Buster Keaton, the swashbuckling adventures of Douglas Fairbanks and the romances of Clara Bow, to cite just a few examples, made these performers' faces well known on every continent. The Western visual norm that would become classical continuity editing was developed and exported – although its adoption was slower in some non-Western countries without strong realist traditions in art and drama, such as Japan.\n\nThis development was contemporary with the growth of the studio system and its greatest publicity method, the star system, which characterized American film for decades to come and provided models for other film industries. The studios' efficient, top-down control over all stages of their product enabled a new and ever-growing level of lavish production and technical sophistication. At the same time, the system's commercial regimentation and focus on glamorous escapism discouraged daring and ambition beyond a certain degree, a prime example being the brief but still legendary directing career of the iconoclastic Erich von Stroheim in the late teens and the 1920s.\n\nDuring late 1927, Warners released \"The Jazz Singer\", which was mostly silent but contained what is generally regarded as the first synchronized dialogue (and singing) in a feature film; but this process was actually accomplished first by Charles Taze Russell in 1914 with the lengthy film \"The Photo-Drama of Creation\". This drama consisted of picture slides and moving pictures synchronized with phonograph records of talks and music. The early sound-on-disc processes such as Vitaphone were soon superseded by sound-on-film methods like Fox Movietone, DeForest Phonofilm, and RCA Photophone. The trend convinced the largely reluctant industrialists that \"talking pictures\", or \"talkies\", were the future. A lot of attempts were made before the success of \"The Jazz Singer\", that can be seen in the List of film sound systems.\n\nThe change was remarkably swift. By the end of 1929, Hollywood was almost all-talkie, with several competing sound systems (soon to be standardized). Total changeover was slightly slower in the rest of the world, principally for economic reasons. Cultural reasons were also a factor in countries like China and Japan, where silents co-existed successfully with sound well into the 1930s, indeed producing what would be some of the most revered classics in those countries, like Wu Yonggang's \"The Goddess\" (China, 1934) and Yasujirō Ozu's \"I Was Born, But...\" (Japan, 1932). But even in Japan, a figure such as the benshi, the live narrator who was a major part of Japanese silent cinema, found his acting career was ending.\n\nSound further tightened the grip of major studios in numerous countries: the vast expense of the transition overwhelmed smaller competitors, while the novelty of sound lured vastly larger audiences for those producers that remained. In the case of the U.S., some historians credit sound with saving the Hollywood studio system in the face of the Great Depression (Parkinson, 1995). Thus began what is now often called \"The Golden Age of Hollywood\", which refers roughly to the period beginning with the introduction of sound until the late 1940s. The American cinema reached its peak of efficiently manufactured glamour and global appeal during this period. The top actors of the era are now thought of as the classic film stars, such as Clark Gable, Katharine Hepburn, Humphrey Bogart, Greta Garbo, and the greatest box office draw of the 1930s, child performer Shirley Temple.\n\nCreatively, however, the rapid transition was a difficult one, and in some ways, film briefly reverted to the conditions of its earliest days. The late '20s were full of static, stagey talkies as artists in front of and behind the camera struggled with the stringent limitations of the early sound equipment and their own uncertainty as to how to utilize the new medium. Many stage performers, directors and writers were introduced to cinema as producers sought personnel experienced in dialogue-based storytelling. Many major silent filmmakers and actors were unable to adjust and found their careers severely curtailed or even ended.\n\nThis awkward period was fairly short-lived. 1929 was a watershed year: William Wellman with \"Chinatown Nights\" and \"The Man I Love\", Rouben Mamoulian with \"Applause\", Alfred Hitchcock with \"Blackmail\" (Britain's first sound feature), were among the directors to bring greater fluidity to talkies and experiment with the expressive use of sound (Eyman, 1997). In this, they both benefited from, and pushed further, technical advances in microphones and cameras, and capabilities for editing and post-synchronizing sound (rather than recording all sound directly at the time of filming).\nSound films emphasized black history and benefited different genres more so than silents did. Most obviously, the musical film was born; the first classic-style Hollywood musical was \"The Broadway Melody\" (1929) and the form would find its first major creator in choreographer/director Busby Berkeley (\"42nd Street\", 1933, \"Dames\", 1934). In France, avant-garde director René Clair made surreal use of song and dance in comedies like \"Under the Roofs of Paris\" (1930) and \"Le Million\" (1931). Universal Pictures begin releasing gothic horror films like \"Dracula\" and \"Frankenstein\" (both 1931). In 1933, RKO Pictures released Merian C. Cooper's classic \"giant monster\" film \"King Kong\". The trend thrived best in India, where the influence of the country's traditional song-and-dance drama made the musical the basic form of most sound films (Cook, 1990); virtually unnoticed by the Western world for decades, this Indian popular cinema would nevertheless become the world's most prolific. (\"See also Bollywood.\")\n\nAt this time, American gangster films like \"Little Caesar\" and Wellman's \"The Public Enemy\" (both 1931) became popular. Dialogue now took precedence over \"slapstick\" in Hollywood comedies: the fast-paced, witty banter of \"The Front Page\" (1931) or \"It Happened One Night\" (1934), the sexual double entrendres of Mae West (\"She Done Him Wrong\", 1933) or the often subversively anarchic nonsense talk of the Marx Brothers (\"Duck Soup\", 1933). Walt Disney, who had previously been in the short cartoon business, stepped into feature films with the first English-speaking animated feature \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\"; released by RKO Pictures in 1937. 1939, a major year for American cinema, brought such films as \"The Wizard of Oz\" and \"Gone with The Wind\".\n\nPreviously, it was believed that color films were first projected in 1909 at the Palace Theatre in London (the main problem with the color being that the technique, created by George Smith, (Kinemacolor) only used two colors: green and red, which were mixed additively). But in fact, it was in 1901 when the first color film in history was created. This untitled film was directed by photographer Edward Raymond Turner and his patron Frederick Marshall Lee. The way they did it was to use black and white film rolls, but have green, red, and blue filters go over the camera individually as it shot. To complete the film, they joined the original footage and filters on a special projector. However, both the shooting of the film and its projection suffered from major unrelated issues that, eventually, sank the idea.\n\nSubsequently, in 1916, the technicolor technique arrived (trichromatic procedure (green, red, blue). Its use required a triple photographic impression, incorporation of chromatic filters and cameras of enormous dimensions). The first audiovisual piece that was completely realized with this technique was the short of Walt Disney \"Flowers and Trees\", directed by Burt Gillett in 1932. Even so, the first film to be performed with this technique will be \"The Vanities Fair\" (1935) by Rouben Mamoulian. Later on, the technicolor was extended mainly in the musical field as \"The Wizard of Oz\" or \"Singing in the rain\", in films such as \"The Adventures of Robin Hood\" or the animation film, \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\".\n\nThe desire for wartime propaganda against the opposition created a renaissance in the film industry in Britain, with realistic war dramas like \"49th Parallel\" (1941), \"Went the Day Well?\" (1942), \"The Way Ahead\" (1944) and Noël Coward and David Lean's celebrated naval film \"In Which We Serve\" in 1942, which won a special Academy Award. These existed alongside more flamboyant films like Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger's \"The Life and Death of Colonel Blimp\" (1943), \"A Canterbury Tale\" (1944) and \"A Matter of Life and Death\" (1946), as well as Laurence Olivier's 1944 film \"Henry V\", based on the Shakespearean history \"Henry V\". The success of \"Snow White and the Seven Dwarfs\" allowed Disney to make more animated features like \"Pinocchio\" (1940), \"Fantasia\" (1940), \"Dumbo\" (1941) and \"Bambi\" (1942).\n\nThe onset of US involvement in World War II also brought a proliferation of films as both patriotism and propaganda. American propaganda films included \"Desperate Journey\" (1942), \"Mrs. Miniver\" (1942), \"Forever and a Day\" (1943) and \"Objective, Burma!\" (1945). Notable American films from the war years include the anti-Nazi \"Watch on the Rhine\" (1943), scripted by Dashiell Hammett; \"Shadow of a Doubt\" (1943), Hitchcock's direction of a script by Thornton Wilder; the George M. Cohan biopic, \"Yankee Doodle Dandy\" (1942), starring James Cagney, and the immensely popular \"Casablanca\", with Humphrey Bogart. Bogart would star in 36 films between 1934 and 1942 including John Huston's \"The Maltese Falcon\" (1941), one of the first films now considered a classic film noir. In 1941, RKO Pictures released \"Citizen Kane\" made by Orson Welles. It is often considered the greatest film of all time. It would set the stage for the modern motion picture, as it revolutionized film story telling.\n\nThe strictures of wartime also brought an interest in more fantastical subjects. These included Britain's Gainsborough melodramas (including \"The Man in Grey\" and \"The Wicked Lady\"), and films like \"Here Comes Mr. Jordan\", \"Heaven Can Wait\", \"I Married a Witch\" and \"Blithe Spirit\". Val Lewton also produced a series of atmospheric and influential small-budget horror films, some of the more famous examples being \"Cat People\", \"Isle of the Dead\" and \"The Body Snatcher\". The decade probably also saw the so-called \"women's pictures\", such as \"Now, Voyager\", \"Random Harvest\" and \"Mildred Pierce\" at the peak of their popularity.\n\n1946 saw RKO Radio releasing \"It's a Wonderful Life\" directed by Frank Capra. Soldiers returning from the war would provide the inspiration for films like \"The Best Years of Our Lives\", and many of those in the film industry had served in some capacity during the war. Samuel Fuller's experiences in World War II would influence his largely autobiographical films of later decades such as \"The Big Red One\". The Actor's Studio was founded in October 1947 by Elia Kazan, Robert Lewis, and Cheryl Crawford, and the same year Oskar Fischinger filmed \"Motion Painting No. 1\".\n\nIn 1943, \"Ossessione\" was screened in Italy, marking the beginning of Italian neorealism. Major films of this type during the 1940s included \"Bicycle Thieves\", \"Rome, Open City\", and \"La Terra Trema\". In 1952 \"Umberto D\" was released, usually considered the last film of this type.\n\nIn the late 1940s, in Britain, Ealing Studios embarked on their series of celebrated comedies, including \"Whisky Galore!\", \"Passport to Pimlico\", \"Kind Hearts and Coronets\" and \"The Man in the White Suit\", and Carol Reed directed his influential thrillers \"Odd Man Out\", \"The Fallen Idol\" and \"The Third Man\". David Lean was also rapidly becoming a force in world cinema with \"Brief Encounter\" and his Dickens adaptations \"Great Expectations\" and \"Oliver Twist\", and Michael Powell and Emeric Pressburger would experience the best of their creative partnership with films like \"Black Narcissus\" and \"The Red Shoes\".\n\nThe House Un-American Activities Committee investigated Hollywood in the early 1950s. Protested by the Hollywood Ten before the committee, the hearings resulted in the blacklisting of many actors, writers and directors, including Chayefsky, Charlie Chaplin, and Dalton Trumbo, and many of these fled to Europe, especially the United Kingdom.\n\nThe Cold War era zeitgeist translated into a type of near-paranoia manifested in themes such as invading armies of evil aliens, (\"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\", \"The War of the Worlds\"); and communist fifth columnists, (\"The Manchurian Candidate\").\n\nDuring the immediate post-war years the cinematic industry was also threatened by television, and the increasing popularity of the medium meant that some film theatres would bankrupt and close. The demise of the \"studio system\" spurred the self-commentary of films like \"Sunset Boulevard\" (1950) and \"The Bad and the Beautiful\" (1952).\n\nIn 1950, the Lettrists avante-gardists caused riots at the Cannes Film Festival, when Isidore Isou's \"Treatise on Slime and Eternity\" was screened. After their criticism of Charlie Chaplin and split with the movement, the Ultra-Lettrists continued to cause disruptions when they showed their new hypergraphical techniques.\nThe most notorious film is Guy Debord's \"Howls for Sade\" of 1952.\n\nDistressed by the increasing number of closed theatres, studios and companies would find new and innovative ways to bring audiences back. These included attempts to widen their appeal with new screen formats. Cinemascope, which would remain a 20th Century Fox distinction until 1967, was announced with 1953's \"The Robe\". VistaVision, Cinerama, and Todd-AO boasted a \"bigger is better\" approach to marketing films to a dwindling US audience. This resulted in the revival of epic films to take advantage of the new big screen formats. Some of the most successful examples of these Biblical and historical spectaculars include \"The Ten Commandments\" (1956), \"The Vikings\" (1958), \"Ben-Hur\" (1959), \"Spartacus\" (1960) and \"El Cid\" (1961). Also during this period a number of other significant films were produced in Todd-AO, developed by Mike Todd shortly before his death, including Oklahoma! (1955), Around the World in 80 Days (1956), South Pacific (1958) and Cleopatra (1963) plus many more.\n\nGimmicks also proliferated to lure in audiences. The fad for 3-D film would last for only two years, 1952–1954, and helped sell \"House of Wax\" and \"Creature from the Black Lagoon\". Producer William Castle would tout films featuring \"Emergo\" \"Percepto\", the first of a series of gimmicks that would remain popular marketing tools for Castle and others throughout the 1960s.\n\nIn the U.S., a post-WW2 tendency toward questioning the establishment and societal norms and the early activism of the civil rights movement was reflected in Hollywood films such as \"Blackboard Jungle\" (1955), \"On the Waterfront\" (1954), Paddy Chayefsky's \"Marty\" and Reginald Rose's \"12 Angry Men\" (1957). Disney continued making animated films, notably; \"Cinderella\" (1950), \"Peter Pan\" (1953), \"Lady and the Tramp\" (1955), and \"Sleeping Beauty\" (1959). He began, however, getting more involved in live action films, producing classics like \"20,000 Leagues Under the Sea\" (1954), and \"Old Yeller\" (1957). Television began competing seriously with films projected in theatres, but surprisingly it promoted more filmgoing rather than curtailing it.\n\n\"Limelight\" is probably a unique film in at least one interesting respect. Its two leads, Charlie Chaplin and Claire Bloom, were in the industry in no less than three different centuries. In the 19th Century, Chaplin made his theatrical debut at the age of eight, in 1897, in a clog dancing troupe, The Eight Lancaster Lads. In the 21st Century, Bloom is still enjoying a full and productive career, having appeared in dozens of films and television series produced up to and including 2013. She received particular acclaim for her role in \"The King's Speech\" (2010).\n\nFollowing the end of World War II in the 1940s, the following decade, the 1950s, marked a 'golden age' for non-English world cinema, especially for Asian cinema. Many of the most critically acclaimed Asian films of all time were produced during this decade, including Yasujirō Ozu's \"Tokyo Story\" (1953), Satyajit Ray's \"The Apu Trilogy\" (1955–1959) and \"Jalsaghar\" (1958), Kenji Mizoguchi's \"Ugetsu\" (1954) and \"Sansho the Bailiff\" (1954), Raj Kapoor's \"Awaara\" (1951), Mikio Naruse's \"Floating Clouds\" (1955), Guru Dutt's \"Pyaasa\" (1957) and \"Kaagaz Ke Phool\" (1959), and the Akira Kurosawa films \"Rashomon\" (1950), \"Ikiru\" (1952), \"Seven Samurai\" (1954) and \"Throne of Blood\" (1957).\n\nDuring Japanese cinema's 'Golden Age' of the 1950s, successful films included \"Rashomon\" (1950), \"Seven Samurai\" (1954) and \"The Hidden Fortress\" (1958) by Akira Kurosawa, as well as Yasujirō Ozu's \"Tokyo Story\" (1953) and Ishirō Honda's \"Godzilla\" (1954). These films have had a profound influence on world cinema. In particular, Kurosawa's \"Seven Samurai\" has been remade several times as Western films, such as \"The Magnificent Seven\" (1960) and \"Battle Beyond the Stars\" (1980), and has also inspired several Bollywood films, such as \"Sholay\" (1975) and \"China Gate\" (1998). \"Rashomon\" was also remade as \"The Outrage\" (1964), and inspired films with \"Rashomon effect\" storytelling methods, such as \"Andha Naal\" (1954), \"The Usual Suspects\" (1995) and \"Hero\" (2002). \"The Hidden Fortress\" was also the inspiration behind George Lucas' \"Star Wars\" (1977). Other famous Japanese filmmakers from this period include Kenji Mizoguchi, Mikio Naruse, Hiroshi Inagaki and Nagisa Oshima. Japanese cinema later became one of the main inspirations behind the New Hollywood movement of the 1960s to 1980s.\n\nDuring Indian cinema's 'Golden Age' of the 1950s, it was producing 200 films annually, while Indian independent films gained greater recognition through international film festivals. One of the most famous was \"The Apu Trilogy\" (1955–1959) from critically acclaimed Bengali film director Satyajit Ray, whose films had a profound influence on world cinema, with directors such as Akira Kurosawa, Martin Scorsese, James Ivory, Abbas Kiarostami, Elia Kazan, François Truffaut, Steven Spielberg, Carlos Saura, Jean-Luc Godard, Isao Takahata, Gregory Nava, Ira Sachs, Wes Anderson and Danny Boyle being influenced by his cinematic style. According to Michael Sragow of \"The Atlantic Monthly\", the \"youthful coming-of-age dramas that have flooded art houses since the mid-fifties owe a tremendous debt to the Apu trilogy\". Subrata Mitra's cinematographic technique of bounce lighting also originates from \"The Apu Trilogy\". Other famous Indian filmmakers from this period include Guru Dutt, Ritwik Ghatak, Mrinal Sen, Raj Kapoor, Bimal Roy, K. Asif and Mehboob Khan.\n\nThe cinema of South Korea also experienced a 'Golden Age' in the 1950s, beginning with director Lee Kyu-hwan's tremendously successful remake of \"Chunhyang-jon\" (1955). That year also saw the release of \"Yangsan Province\" by the renowned director, Kim Ki-young, marking the beginning of his productive career. Both the quality and quantity of filmmaking had increased rapidly by the end of the 1950s. South Korean films, such as Lee Byeong-il's 1956 comedy \"Sijibganeun nal (The Wedding Day)\", had begun winning international awards. In contrast to the beginning of the 1950s, when only 5 films were made per year, 111 films were produced in South Korea in 1959.\n\nThe 1950s was also a 'Golden Age' for Philippine cinema, with the emergence of more artistic and mature films, and significant improvement in cinematic techniques among filmmakers. The studio system produced frenetic activity in the local film industry as many films were made annually and several local talents started to earn recognition abroad. The premiere Philippine directors of the era included Gerardo de Leon, Gregorio Fernández, Eddie Romero, Lamberto Avellana, and Cirio Santiago.\n\nDuring the 1960s, the studio system in Hollywood declined, because many films were now being made on location in other countries, or using studio facilities abroad, such as Pinewood in the UK and Cinecittà in Rome. \"Hollywood\" films were still largely aimed at family audiences, and it was often the more old-fashioned films that produced the studios' biggest successes. Productions like \"Mary Poppins\" (1964), \"My Fair Lady\" (1964) and \"The Sound of Music\" (1965) were among the biggest money-makers of the decade. The growth in independent producers and production companies, and the increase in the power of individual actors also contributed to the decline of traditional Hollywood studio production.\n\nThere was also an increasing awareness of foreign language cinema in America during this period. During the late 1950s and 1960s, the French New Wave directors such as François Truffaut and Jean-Luc Godard produced films such as \"Les quatre cents coups\", \"Breathless\" and \"Jules et Jim\" which broke the rules of Hollywood cinema's narrative structure. As well, audiences were becoming aware of Italian films like Federico Fellini's \"La Dolce Vita\" and the stark dramas of Sweden's Ingmar Bergman.\n\nIn Britain, the \"Free Cinema\" of Lindsay Anderson, Tony Richardson and others lead to a group of realistic and innovative dramas including \"Saturday Night and Sunday Morning\", \"A Kind of Loving\" and \"This Sporting Life\". Other British films such as \"Repulsion\", \"Darling\", \"Alfie\", \"Blowup\" and \"Georgy Girl\" (all in 1965–1966) helped to reduce prohibitions sex and nudity on screen, while the casual sex and violence of the James Bond films, beginning with \"Dr. No\" in 1962 would render the series popular worldwide.\n\nDuring the 1960s, Ousmane Sembène produced several French- and Wolof-language films and became the \"father\" of African Cinema. In Latin America, the dominance of the \"Hollywood\" model was challenged by many film makers. Fernando Solanas and Octavio Getino called for a politically engaged Third Cinema in contrast to Hollywood and the European auteur cinema.\n\nFurther, the nuclear paranoia of the age, and the threat of an apocalyptic nuclear exchange (like the 1962 close-call with the USSR during the Cuban missile crisis) prompted a reaction within the film community as well. Films like Stanley Kubrick's \"Dr. Strangelove\" and \"Fail Safe\" with Henry Fonda were produced in a Hollywood that was once known for its overt patriotism and wartime propaganda.\n\nIn documentary film the sixties saw the blossoming of Direct Cinema, an observational style of film making as well as the advent of more overtly partisan films like \"In the Year of the Pig\" about the Vietnam War by Emile de Antonio. By the late 1960s however, Hollywood filmmakers were beginning to create more innovative and groundbreaking films that reflected the social revolution taken over much of the western world such as \"Bonnie and Clyde\" (1967), \"The Graduate\" (1967), \"\" (1968), \"Rosemary's Baby\" (1968), \"Midnight Cowboy\" (1969), \"Easy Rider\" (1969) and \"The Wild Bunch\" (1969). \"Bonnie and Clyde\" is often considered the beginning of the so-called New Hollywood.\n\nIn Japanese cinema, Academy Award-winning director Akira Kurosawa produced \"Yojimbo\" (1961), which like his previous films also had a profound influence around the world. The influence of this film is most apparent in Sergio Leone's \"A Fistful of Dollars\" (1964) and Walter Hill's \"Last Man Standing\" (1996). \"Yojimbo\" was also the origin of the \"Man with No Name\" trend.\n\nThe New Hollywood was the period following the decline of the studio system during the 1950s and 1960s and the end of the production code, (which was replaced in 1968 by the MPAA film rating system). During the 1970s, filmmakers increasingly depicted explicit sexual content and showed gunfight and battle scenes that included graphic images of bloody deaths a good example of this is Wes Craven's \"The Last House on the Left\" (1972).\n\nPost-classical cinema is the changing methods of storytelling of the New Hollywood producers. The new methods of drama and characterization played upon audience expectations acquired during the classical/Golden Age period: story chronology may be scrambled, storylines may feature unsettling \"twist endings\", main characters may behave in a morally ambiguous fashion, and the lines between the antagonist and protagonist may be blurred. The beginnings of post-classical storytelling may be seen in 1940s and 1950s film noir films, in films such as \"Rebel Without a Cause\" (1955), and in Hitchcock's \"Psycho\". 1971 marked the release of controversial films like \"Straw Dogs\", \"A Clockwork Orange\", \"The French Connection\" and \"Dirty Harry\". This sparked heated controversy over the perceived escalation of violence in cinema.\n\nDuring the 1970s, a new group of American filmmakers emerged, such as Martin Scorsese, Francis Ford Coppola, George Lucas, Woody Allen, Terrence Malick, and Robert Altman. This coincided with the increasing popularity of the auteur theory in film literature and the media, which posited that a film director's films express their personal vision and creative insights. The development of the auteur style of filmmaking helped to give these directors far greater control over their projects than would have been possible in earlier eras. This led to some great critical and commercial successes, like Scorsese's \"Taxi Driver\", Coppola's \"The Godfather\" films, William Friedkin's \"The Exorcist\", Altman's \"Nashville\", Allen's \"Annie Hall\" and \"Manhattan\", Malick's \"Badlands\" and \"Days of Heaven\", and Polish immigrant Roman Polanski's \"Chinatown\". It also, however, resulted in some failures, including Peter Bogdanovich's \"At Long Last Love\" and Michael Cimino's hugely expensive Western epic \"Heaven's Gate\", which helped to bring about the demise of its backer, United Artists.\n\nThe financial disaster of \"Heaven's Gate\" marked the end of the visionary \"auteur\" directors of the \"New Hollywood\", who had unrestrained creative and financial freedom to develop films. The phenomenal success in the 1970s of Spielberg's \"Jaws\" originated the concept of the modern \"blockbuster\". However, the enormous success of George Lucas' 1977 film \"Star Wars\" led to much more than just the popularization of blockbuster film-making. The film's revolutionary use of special effects, sound editing and music had led it to become widely regarded as one of the single most important films in the medium's history, as well as the most influential film of the 1970s. Hollywood studios increasingly focused on producing a smaller number of very large budget films with massive marketing and promotional campaigns. This trend had already been foreshadowed by the commercial success of disaster films such as \"The Poseidon Adventure\" and \"The Towering Inferno\".\n\nDuring the mid-1970s, more pornographic theatres, euphemistically called \"adult cinemas\", were established, and the legal production of hardcore pornographic films began. Porn films such as \"Deep Throat\" and its star Linda Lovelace became something of a popular culture phenomenon and resulted in a spate of similar sex films. The porn cinemas finally died out during the 1980s, when the popularization of the home VCR and pornography videotapes allowed audiences to watch sex films at home. In the early 1970s, English-language audiences became more aware of the new West German cinema, with Werner Herzog, Rainer Werner Fassbinder and Wim Wenders among its leading exponents.\n\nIn world cinema, the 1970s saw a dramatic increase in the popularity of martial arts films, largely due to its reinvention by Bruce Lee, who departed from the artistic style of traditional Chinese martial arts films and added a much greater sense of realism to them with his Jeet Kune Do style. This began with \"The Big Boss\" (1971), which was a major success across Asia. However, he didn't gain fame in the Western world until shortly after his death in 1973, when \"Enter the Dragon\" was released. The film went on to become the most successful martial arts film in cinematic history, popularized the martial arts film genre across the world, and cemented Bruce Lee's status as a cultural icon. Hong Kong action cinema, however, was in decline due to a wave of \"Bruceploitation\" films. This trend eventually came to an end in 1978 with the martial arts comedy films, \"Snake in the Eagle's Shadow\" and \"Drunken Master\", directed by Yuen Woo-ping and starring Jackie Chan, laying the foundations for the rise of Hong Kong action cinema in the 1980s.\n\nWhile the musical film genre had declined in Hollywood by this time, musical films were quickly gaining popularity in the cinema of India, where the term \"Bollywood\" was coined for the growing Hindi film industry in Bombay (now Mumbai) that ended up dominating South Asian cinema, overtaking the more critically acclaimed Bengali film industry in popularity. Hindi filmmakers combined the Hollywood musical formula with the conventions of ancient Indian theatre to create a new film genre called \"Masala\", which dominated Indian cinema throughout the late 20th century. These \"Masala\" films portrayed action, comedy, drama, romance and melodrama all at once, with \"filmi\" song and dance routines thrown in. This trend began with films directed by Manmohan Desai and starring Amitabh Bachchan, who remains one of the most popular film stars in South Asia. The most popular Indian film of all time was \"Sholay\" (1975), a \"Masala\" film inspired by a real-life dacoit as well as Kurosawa's \"Seven Samurai\" and the Spaghetti Westerns.\n\nThe end of the decade saw the first major international marketing of Australian cinema, as Peter Weir's films \"Picnic at Hanging Rock\" and \"The Last Wave\" and Fred Schepisi's \"The Chant of Jimmie Blacksmith\" gained critical acclaim. In 1979, Australian filmmaker George Miller also garnered international attention for his violent, low-budget action film \"Mad Max\".\n\nDuring the 1980s, audiences began increasingly watching films on their home VCRs. In the early part of that decade, the film studios tried legal action to ban home ownership of VCRs as a violation of copyright, which proved unsuccessful. Eventually, the sale and rental of films on home video became a significant \"second venue\" for exhibition of films, and an additional source of revenue for the film industries.\n\nThe Lucas–Spielberg combine would dominate \"Hollywood\" cinema for much of the 1980s, and lead to much imitation. Two follow-ups to \"Star Wars\", three to \"Jaws\", and three \"Indiana Jones\" films helped to make sequels of successful films more of an expectation than ever before. Lucas also launched THX Ltd, a division of Lucasfilm in 1982, while Spielberg enjoyed one of the decade's greatest successes in \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" the same year. 1982 also saw the release of Disney's \"Tron\" which was one of the first films from a major studio to use computer graphics extensively. American independent cinema struggled more during the decade, although Martin Scorsese's \"Raging Bull\" (1980), \"After Hours\" (1985), and \"The King of Comedy\" (1983) helped to establish him as one of the most critically acclaimed American film makers of the era. Also during 1983 \"Scarface\" was released, which was very profitable and resulted in even greater fame for its leading actor Al Pacino. Probably the most successful film commercially was Tim Burton's 1989 version of Bob Kane's creation, \"Batman\", which broke box-office records. Jack Nicholson's portrayal of the demented Joker earned him a total of $60,000,000 after figuring in his percentage of the gross.\n\nBritish cinema was given a boost during the early 1980s by the arrival of David Puttnam's company Goldcrest Films. The films \"Chariots of Fire\", \"Gandhi\", \"The Killing Fields\" and \"A Room with a View\" appealed to a \"middlebrow\" audience which was increasingly being ignored by the major Hollywood studios. While the films of the 1970s had helped to define modern blockbuster motion pictures, the way \"Hollywood\" released its films would now change. Films, for the most part, would premiere in a wider number of theatres, although, to this day, some films still premiere using the route of the limited/roadshow release system. Against some expectations, the rise of the multiplex cinema did not allow less mainstream films to be shown, but simply allowed the major blockbusters to be given an even greater number of screenings. However, films that had been overlooked in cinemas were increasingly being given a second chance on home video.\nDuring the 1980s, Japanese cinema experienced a revival, largely due to the success of anime films. At the beginning of the 1980s, \"Space Battleship Yamato\" (1973) and \"Mobile Suit Gundam\" (1979), both of which were unsuccessful as television series, were remade as films and became hugely successful in Japan. In particular, \"Mobile Suit Gundam\" sparked the Gundam franchise of Real Robot mecha anime. The success of \"\" also sparked a Macross franchise of mecha anime. This was also the decade when Studio Ghibli was founded. The studio produced Hayao Miyazaki's first fantasy films, \"Nausicaä of the Valley of the Wind\" (1984) and \"Castle in the Sky\" (1986), as well as Isao Takahata's \"Grave of the Fireflies\" (1988), all of which were very successful in Japan and received worldwide critical acclaim. Original video animation (OVA) films also began during this decade; the most influential of these early OVA films was Noboru Ishiguro's cyberpunk film \"Megazone 23\" (1985). The most famous anime film of this decade was Katsuhiro Otomo's cyberpunk film \"Akira\" (1988), which although initially unsuccessful at Japanese theaters, went on to become an international success.\n\nHong Kong action cinema, which was in a state of decline due to endless Bruceploitation films after the death of Bruce Lee, also experienced a revival in the 1980s, largely due to the reinvention of the action film genre by Jackie Chan. He had previously combined the comedy film and martial arts film genres successfully in the 1978 films \"Snake in the Eagle's Shadow\" and \"Drunken Master\". The next step he took was in combining this comedy martial arts genre with a new emphasis on elaborate and highly dangerous stunts, reminiscent of the silent film era. The first film in this new style of action cinema was \"Project A\" (1983), which saw the formation of the Jackie Chan Stunt Team as well as the \"Three Brothers\" (Chan, Sammo Hung and Yuen Biao). The film added elaborate, dangerous stunts to the fights and slapstick humor, and became a huge success throughout the Far East. As a result, Chan continued this trend with martial arts action films containing even more elaborate and dangerous stunts, including \"Wheels on Meals\" (1984), \"Police Story\" (1985), \"Armour of God\" (1986), \"Project A Part II\" (1987), \"Police Story 2\" (1988), and \"Dragons Forever\" (1988). Other new trends which began in the 1980s were the \"girls with guns\" subgenre, for which Michelle Yeoh gained fame; and especially the \"heroic bloodshed\" genre, revolving around Triads, largely pioneered by John Woo and for which Chow Yun-fat became famous. These Hong Kong action trends were later adopted by many Hollywood action films in the 1990s and 2000s.\n\nThe early 1990s saw the development of a commercially successful independent cinema in the United States. Although cinema was increasingly dominated by special-effects films such as \"\" (1991), \"Jurassic Park\" (1993) and \"Titanic\" (1997), the latter of which became the highest-grossing film of all time at the time up until \"Avatar\" (2009), also directed by James Cameron, independent films like Steven Soderbergh's \"Sex, Lies, and Videotape\" (1989) and Quentin Tarantino's \"Reservoir Dogs\" (1992) had significant commercial success both at the cinema and on home video. Filmmakers associated with the Danish film movement Dogme 95 introduced a manifesto aimed to purify filmmaking. Its first few films gained worldwide critical acclaim, after which the movement slowly faded out.\nMajor American studios began to create their own \"independent\" production companies to finance and produce non-mainstream fare. One of the most successful independents of the 1990s, Miramax Films, was bought by Disney the year before the release of Tarantino's runaway hit \"Pulp Fiction\" in 1994. The same year marked the beginning of film and video distribution online. Animated films aimed at family audiences also regained their popularity, with Disney's \"Beauty and the Beast\" (1991), \"Aladdin\" (1992), and \"The Lion King\" (1994). During 1995, the first feature length computer-animated feature, \"Toy Story\", was produced by Pixar Animation Studios and released by Disney. After the success of Toy Story, computer animation would grow to become the dominant technique for feature length animation, which would allow competing film companies such as DreamWorks Animation and 20th Century Fox to effectively compete with Disney with successful films of their own. During the late 1990s, another cinematic transition began, from physical film stock to digital cinema technology. Meanwhile, DVDs became the new standard for consumer video, replacing VHS tapes.\n\nThe documentary film also rose as a commercial genre for perhaps the first time, with the success of films such as \"March of the Penguins\" and Michael Moore's \"Bowling for Columbine\" and \"Fahrenheit 9/11\". A new genre was created with Martin Kunert and Eric Manes' \"Voices of Iraq\", when 150 inexpensive DV cameras were distributed across Iraq, transforming ordinary people into collaborative filmmakers. The success of \"Gladiator\" led to a revival of interest in epic cinema, and \"Moulin Rouge!\" renewed interest in musical cinema. Home theatre systems became increasingly sophisticated, as did some of the special edition DVDs designed to be shown on them. \"The Lord of the Rings trilogy\" was released on DVD in both the theatrical version and in a special extended version intended only for home cinema audiences.\n\nIn 2001, the \"Harry Potter\" film series began, and by its end in 2011, it had become the highest-grossing film franchise of all time until the Marvel Cinematic Universe passed it in 2015.\n\nMore films were also being released simultaneously to IMAX cinema, the first was in 2002's Disney animation \"Treasure Planet\"; and the first live action was in 2003's \"The Matrix Revolutions\" and a re-release of \"The Matrix Reloaded\". Later in the decade, \"The Dark Knight\" was the first major feature film to have been at least partially shot in IMAX technology.\n\nThere has been an increasing globalization of cinema during this decade, with foreign-language films gaining popularity in English-speaking markets. Examples of such films include \"Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon\" (Mandarin), \"Amélie\" (French), \"Lagaan\" (Hindi), \"Spirited Away\" (Japanese), \"City of God\" (Brazilian Portuguese), \"The Passion of the Christ\" (Aramaic), \"Apocalypto\" (Mayan) and \"Inglourious Basterds\" (multiple European languages). Italy is the most awarded country at the Academy Award for Best Foreign Language Film, with 14 awards won, 3 Special Awards and 31 nominations.\n\nIn 2003 there was a revival in 3D film popularity the first being James Cameron's \"Ghosts of the Abyss\" which was released as the first full-length 3-D IMAX feature filmed with the Reality Camera System. This camera system used the latest HD video cameras, not film, and was built for Cameron by Emmy nominated Director of Photography Vince Pace, to his specifications. The same camera system was used to film \"\" (2003), \"Aliens of the Deep\" IMAX (2005), and \"The Adventures of Sharkboy and Lavagirl in 3-D\" (2005).\n\nAfter James Cameron's 3D film \"Avatar\" became the highest-grossing film of all time, 3D films gained brief popularity with many other films being released in 3D, with the best critical and financial successes being in the field of feature film animation such as Universal Pictures/Illumination Entertainment's \"Despicable Me\" and DreamWorks Animation's \"How To Train Your Dragon\", \"Shrek Forever After\" and \"Megamind\". \"Avatar\" is also note-worthy for pioneering highly sophisticated use of motion capture technology and influencing several other films such as \"Rise of the Planet of the Apes\". However the popularity of 3D steadily declined over the subsequent seven years to 2017.\n\n, the largest film industries by number of feature films produced were those of India, the United States, China, Nigeria and Japan. Beginning in 2008 with \"Iron Man\" and \"The Dark Knight\", superhero films have greatly increased in popularity and financial success, with films based on Marvel and DC comics regularly being released every year up to the present.\n\n\n\\ Jones. Based on the book (above); written by Basten & Jones. Documentary, (1998).\n\n"}
{"id": "19530855", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19530855", "title": "Kalaga", "text": "Kalaga\n\nKalaga () is a heavily embroidered appliqué tapestry made of silk, flannel, felt, wool and lace against a background made of cotton or velvet indigenous to Burma (Myanmar). The word \"kalaga\", which means \"curtain,\" comes from the Burmese language, although Burmese refer to such tapestries as \"shwe gyi do\" (; lit. \"gold thread embroidery\"). These tapestries use a sewing technique called \"shwe gyi\" ()\n\nThis artform emerged during the Konbaung dynasty in the mid-19th century and reached its zenith during the reign of Mindon Min, when velvet became fashionable at the royal court.\n\nIn a typical tapestry, padded figures are cut from various types of cloth and sewn onto a background, usually red or black cloth to form an elaborate scene, traditionally from Burmese classical plays (e.g. Ramayana, Jataka). The figures are sewn using a combination of metallic and plain threads and adorned with sequins, beads and glass stones.\n\n"}
{"id": "42583737", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42583737", "title": "La Popola", "text": "La Popola\n\n\"La Popola\" is a song by Puerto Rican reggaetón recording artist Glory, from her debut studio album, \"Glou\" (2005). It was composed by Glory, produced by Eliel and released as the album's lead single. The song originally appeared on Eliel's \"El Que Habla Con Las Manos\" in 2004. It was banned in the Dominican Republic for its vulgar lyrical content.\n\nBefore venturing as a solo artist, Glory appeared on several songs by artists including Daddy Yankee, Don Omar, Héctor & Tito and Eddie Dee. She appeared on Yankee's successful \"Gasolina\" delivering the hook \"dame más gasolina\", and Omar's \"Dale Don Dale\" with the hook \"suelta como gabete\".\n\nTú querias popola,\nPues agarra que no tienes pila,\nAgüichi, chi,\n(A todo gavete),\nNos fuimos,\nEscobar,\nGata gangster,\n\nYo toqué, Y llamé,\nY nadie me contesto,\n\nAahhhy, no me des más na',\nQue me duele la popola,\nAy dale por allá,\nPa' que descanse la popola,\n\nEl compa y don Facundo,\nNo la deja descansar,\nAsí ta' su mujer,\nElla le pide sin parar,\n\nCuando se va pa el barrio,\nÉl la busca por to' lado,\nAsí 'ca su mujer,\nLe dicen sonrifiao',\n\nAahhhy, no me des más na',\nQue me duele la popola,\nAy dale por allá,\nPa' que descanse la popola,\n\nQuien más,\n(Glow),\nSanto Domingo,\nEl Cibao,\nRepública,\nPuelto Lico y Latinoamérica\nLa popola pa' to' el mundo,\nEscobar,\nDile a Eliel que me llevo la popola,\nMe la llevo, me la llevo,\nSe acabo.\n\nIn the Dominican Republic, the song was banned by the countries' Comisión Nacional de Espectáculos Públicos y Radiofonía, (National Commission of Public Entertainment) in late 2004, due to its vulgar lyrical content. It has also been banned in several Latin American countries for its exceedingly sexual lyrics. The term \"popola\" is used to refer to the watermelon fruit as well as the female sex organ. It was considered disrespectful to women. The song's musical aesthetics lean heavily toward the Dominican musical genre of merengue. Musically, it features major key tonality, mixed acoustic and electric instrumentation, an accordion playing and prominent percussion according to the Music Genome Project. \n\nWhile reviewing Eliel's \"El Que Habla Con Las Manos\", AllMusic's Evan Gutierrez stated that \"La Popola\" was one of the album's only highlights along with Don Omar's \"Ronca\". He continued by stating that \"the other 19 tracks tend to run together into a nondescript, formulaic mishmash.\" It was covered by Reggaetones in 2006 on their second studio album, \"Fury of Reggaeton Hits\". Yahari also performed a cover of the song on his 2005 album \"Las + Bailables de...Yahari\". The song has appeared on several other compilation albums including \"Reggaeton Hitmakers 2000/2005: The Video\" (2005), \"Album of the Year: Las Mas Bailables\" (2006), \"Machete World Remixes, Part 1\" (2006), and 2007's \"VI Music 30 Video Collection\". A karaoke version of the song was released as a single on 19 March 2013 by Ameritz Spanish Karaoke.\n\nThe song was released as the album's lead single on 19 March 2005 by Machete Music. It received barely sufficient airplay in Puerto Rico and none in the Dominican Republic. On the \"Billboard\" Tropical Songs chart, \"La Popola\" debuted at number 26 for the week of 26 March 2005. Ten weeks later, the song peaked at number ten for the week of 28 May 2005. In \"Billboard\" magazine, the song is credited to Eliel instead of Glory as the performer.\n"}
{"id": "8753064", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8753064", "title": "Levenslied", "text": "Levenslied\n\nLevenslied (Dutch, literally \"life song\" or \"song about life\") is a sentimental Dutch-language subgenre of popular music. \"Levenslied\" lyrics can be sweet or bitter, light and sentimental, but also reflective and dark, about subjects such as love, misery and far-away, sunny, exotic holiday places. The darker, more sentimental songs are also known as \"smartlap\" (literally: \"grief cloth\"). The levenslied is related to the \"chanson\" though for a lower-class audience, like the schlager.\n\nA typical levenslied has catchy, simple rhythms and melodies and is built up in couplets and refrains. Traditional musical instruments in levenslied music are the accordion and the barrel organ. Modern levenslied artists also use synthesizers and guitars.\n\nThe songs are usually in Dutch but also English or Italian.\n\nTwo cities in the Netherlands, Tilburg and Nijmegen, have annual Levenslied festivals.\n\nNotable Dutch levenslied singers:\n\n\nNotable Flemish levenslied singers:\n\n"}
{"id": "57787874", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57787874", "title": "Liina Kersna", "text": "Liina Kersna\n\nLiina Kersna (née Lepik; born 3 April 1980, Tallinn) is an Estonian journalist, civil servant and politician.\n\nKersna graduated from Lasnamäe General Secondary School in 1998 and from the University of Tartu in the field of journalism and public relations in 2005.\n\nShe worked as a presenter and editor at Eesti Rahvusringhääling from 1998 to 2002. From 2002 to 2004, she worked as head of public relations of the Federation of Estonian Student Unions. In 2004, she worked as the Chief Specialist at the Press Office of the Ministry of Rural Affairs, as Deputy Director of the Public Relations Department of the Ministry of Agriculture and Forestry of Finland from 2005 to 2006, and was its head from 2006 to 2007. From 2007 to 2010 and again from 2012 to 2013, Kersna was the Media Advisor to the Government of Estonia; From 2010 to 2012, she was the Director of Government Communications of the Government of Estonia. From 2013 to 2015, she was the head of the office of Advisor to the Prime Minister of the Republic of Estonia.\n\nKersna has been a member of the Estonian Reform Party since 2015. She has been a member of the Riigikogu since 2015.\n\nLiina Kersna is married to , with whom she has a son.\n\n"}
{"id": "43261117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43261117", "title": "List of Archibald Prize 2014 finalists", "text": "List of Archibald Prize 2014 finalists\n\nThis is a list of finalists for the 2014 Archibald Prize for portraiture. As the images are copyrighted, an external link to an image has been listed where available (listed is Artist – \"Title\").\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39729051", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39729051", "title": "List of host cities of the ABU Song Festivals", "text": "List of host cities of the ABU Song Festivals\n\nThis page is a list of cities and venues that have hosted the ABU Radio Song Festival, ABU TV Song Festival, and ABU International Dance Festival, one or more times. Future venues are shown in \"italics\". The first venue in both the ABU Radio Song Festival 2012 and ABU TV Song Festival 2012, coincided with the 49th General Assembly of the Asia-Pacific Broadcasting Union. The host cities of the ABU Radio Song Festivals from 2014 onwards are elected during ABU Administrative Council meetings. Whereas the host cities of the ABU TV Song Festivals remain to coincide to take place in the host country of the ABU General Assembly meetings.\n\n"}
{"id": "11604504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11604504", "title": "List of piano brand names", "text": "List of piano brand names\n\nThis article is a list of piano brand names from all over the world. This list also includes names of old instruments which are no longer in production.\n\nMany of these piano brand names are \"stencil pianos\", which means that the company which owns the brand name is simply applying the name to a piano manufactured for them by another company, and that the same or very similar pianos are sold under differing \"stencil\" brands. This often applies to old brand names, revitalized to give an air of heritage to a new piano line, or to pianos manufactured specifically for individual dealers or shops. Also, some brand names have models that are manufactured in entirely different manufacturing plants or countries than another model of the same brand.\n\n\n\nLeschen, Wilhelm\n<br>\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56401967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56401967", "title": "Liz Hannah", "text": "Liz Hannah\n\nLiz Hannah (born December 14, 1985) is an American screenwriter and producer. She is best known for her work on Steven Spielberg's 2017 journalism drama \"The Post\", for which she was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Screenplay.\n\nHannah did her undergraduate studies at the Pratt Institute in New York. Following an internship on 2007's \"Reign Over Me\", she was admitted to the AFI Conservatory, in the producing discipline.\n\nAfter graduating from AFI, Hannah moved to Los Angeles. She got a job in development at Denver & Delilah, Charlize Theron’s production company. Several years into her role, Hannah realised she didn't want to be a producer and decided to write a film of her own, about 'a 70th-birthday party gone awry'. She sent the script to her boss and in 2012, based on the encouraging feedback, quit her job to pursue writing full-time.\n\nOver the next couple of years, she wrote a spec pilot that was sold but not made, and wrote for a web series called \"Guidance\".\n\nDuring this period, Hannah read \"Personal History\", the 1997 autobiography of The Washington Post publisher Katharine Graham. Her then-boyfriend (now husband) challenged her to write Graham's story as a film.\n\nIn October 2016, Hannah sent the finished script, titled \"The Post\", out to agents, with the hope of finding representation. On October 28, she received a call from producer Amy Pascal, the former chair of Sony Pictures. The script appeared at number two on the 2016 Black List, an annual Hollywood survey of the 'most liked' film screenplays not yet produced. Pascal won an auction for the script soon after, and quickly enlisted Steven Spielberg, Meryl Streep and Tom Hanks as director and stars, respectively.\n\nSpielberg, who was in post-production on \"Ready Player One\", decided to make the film immediately. Hannah was partnered with screenwriter Josh Singer, an Oscar winner for 2015 journalism drama \"Spotlight\", and with the on-set writing experience Hannah lacked. Principal photography began on May 30, 2017.\n\n\"The Post\", Hannah's first feature film, was released on December 22, 2017. She was nominated for a Golden Globe for Best Screenplay for her work.\n\nIt was announced on October 27, 2017 that Hannah's next project would be \"Only Plane in the Sky\" for MGM, based on a Politico article by Garrett Graff about the immediate aftermath of the September 11 attacks. She is also working on a miniseries titled \"Mercury 13\" for Amazon Video, based on Martha Ackmann’s book \"The Mercury 13: The Untold Story of Thirteen American Women and the Dream of Space Flight.\" The project reunites Hannah with \"The Post\" producer Pascal and actor Bradley Whitford. Hannah would serve as showrunner and executive producer should the show be ordered to series.\n\nIn July 2018, it was announced Hannah would co-write \"All the Bright Places\" alongside Jennifer Niven.\n\nFilm\n"}
{"id": "4224411", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4224411", "title": "Lock-Up (TV series)", "text": "Lock-Up (TV series)\n\nLock-Up is an American crime drama series that premiered in syndication in September 1959 and concluded in June 1961. The half-hour episodes had little time for character development or subplots and presented a compact story without embellishment.\n\nThe program stars Macdonald Carey as real-life Philadelphia corporate attorney Herbert L. Maris and John Doucette as police detective Lieutenant Jim Weston.\n\nEach episode began with the following introduction: \"These stories are based on the files and case histories of Herbert L. Maris, prominent attorney, who has devoted his life to saving the innocent.\"\n\nThe foundation of each episode is the cornerstone of English and American jurisprudence: a person charged with a crime is innocent until proven guilty in a court of law. The series featured stories persons who were unjustly accused, usually due to circumstantial evidence. The program's primary theme is that when individuals are charged with a crime not all is as it first appears and a thorough investigation is duly warranted in order to uncover vital facts pertinent to the case.\n\nHerbert L. Maris had an uncanny sense about the honest, innocent persons who had been falsely accused. He was an attorney who spent his spare time helping defendants unjustly charged by the State. The stories do not involve federal crimes.\n\nAmong the many guest stars on the show were:\n\nZiv Television Programs, Inc., of Cincinnati, Ohio, a producer and distributor of more than 40 television shows during the 1950s including \"Highway Patrol,\" \"Sea Hunt,\" \"Science Fiction Theatre,\" and subsequently, ZIV-United Artists produced the television series. Later, Showcase Media of Studio City, California distributed the series.\n\nClassicFlix announced that they would release Season 1 on DVD in region 1 in 2017. However, these plans were shelved indefintely on April 17, 2018, when ClassicFlix announced that they wouldn't be moving on with the project after all, due to the film elements not being in good enough shape.\n\n"}
{"id": "40636454", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40636454", "title": "Madonna Standing (van der Weyden)", "text": "Madonna Standing (van der Weyden)\n\nThe Madonna Standing (or Madonna al latte) is a small painting by the Flemish artist Rogier van der Weyden dating from about 1430–1432. It is the left panel of a diptych held in the Kunsthistorisches Museum (KHM), Vienna since 1772. The right panel portrays St. Catherine and is also attributed by the KHM to van der Weyden, but is inferior in quality and generally regarded as by a workshop member.\n\nThe panel shows the Madonna and Child standing in a painted niche. The architecture of the niche's contains biblical and heavenly figures rendered in grisaille, including God the Father, the Holy Spirit represented by a dove, and Adam and Eve. The painting is influenced by Jan van Eyck's Ghent altarpiece, which the younger artist probably saw after he moved to Ghent around 1432. Borrowings from van Eyck include the positioning of a living figure in a niche, separating Adam and Eve across panels, and placing figure of God leaning on the frame.\n\nThe painting is a \"Madonna Lactans\". The Madonna and Child stand in a space delimited by the rich brocade of the throne at the back and the delicate curtain of tracery in the front, a flattening of the picture space into a kind of relief regarded by Panofsky as already unmistakably Rogerian. It was a technique he would further refine in his \"Durán Madonna\" of 1435–1438. In this work, Mary holds the child in her arms as he suckles at her breast. The blue colour of her robe may allude to her devotion and fidelity to her son. She is wearing a crown, positioning her as Queen of Heaven. The Child is unclothed save for a white linen cloth, foreshadowing the shroud in which his body was later placed following the Deposition.\n\nThe niche around the central couple contains a number of biblical figures in grisaille. God the Father is shown at the centre top, just above the niche's concave moulding. He is depicted in frontal foreshortening, giving the impression that He is emerging from the clouds around Him. He seems to lean forward with one hand raised in blessing and the other resting on the frame, the latter a device likely borrowed from the depiction of the prophet Micah in the right lunette on the exterior of the Ghent altarpiece. In both depictions the father is shown directly above Mary, looking down at her and resting on the painting's frame. In the current panel, a dove hovers above Mary, symbolising the Holy Spirit.\n\nTo Mary's left and right are the figures of Adam and Eve, referencing the Redemption. Eve stands underneath an apple tree, with a large serpent with a human head coiling its body around its trunk. She eats from the forbidden fruit, indicating that she is depicted at the moment of the fall of man. However Roger avoids providing the work with a narrative element by reversing the typical portrayal of the first couple; Adam is to the left, Eve to the right. Unusually for art to this point, they stand apart, divided on either side of the imitation pictorial frame. Again, this is likely borrowed from the Ghent altarpiece, where the couple are separated by five panels. The lions on the armrests of the chair behind Mary show that she is standing in front of a Throne of Solomon, as is also depicted in Jan Eyck's \"Lucca Madonna\" recalling the Seat of Wisdom tradition.\n\nBy portraying the ancillary figures in grisaille, Rogier is making a distinction between the earthly, who are rendered as in flesh, and the divine, depicted frozen in time, as imitation sculpture.\n\nThis painting along with the \" Virgin and Child Enthroned\" are generally cited as the earliest known works by van der Weyden. Art historian Erwin Panofsky suggested he produced them while still in the workshop of Robert Campin. John Ward of the University of Florida suggests he executed the \"Madonna Standing\" after leaving Campin's studio to travel to Ghent where he likely saw Jan van Eyck's newly completed \"Ghent Altarpiece\" which is signed and dated May 6, 1432.\n\nKarl Birkmeyer, noting the many borrowing from van Eyck, believes that the panel was completed after Rogier left his apprenticeship. He draws on documentary evidence that the artist did not leave Campin's studio until August 1, 1432, and offers that the technical and compositional skill of the work already indicates the ability and creative freedom of a master craftsman. Birkmeyer goes on to distinguish how the borrowing of motifs are not merely echoes, and that Rogier builds on them and absorbs them into his own expressive language. Many of the motifs he was to return to in more mature works; notably in the heightened abstraction of the \"Durán Madonna\".\n\n"}
{"id": "38051468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38051468", "title": "Maghsoudbeyk Mosque", "text": "Maghsoudbeyk Mosque\n\nMaghsoudbeyk mosque () is near the northeastern corner of Naqsh-e Jahan Square. It was built in 1601 by the order of Maghsoudbeyk, who was one of the very rich stewards of Abbas I. There is an inscription in the mihrab of this mosque, which is one of artworks of the famous calligrapher of the Safavid era Ali Reza Abbassi. It's said, after that Shah Abbas was very satisfied with this inscription, he ordered Ali Reza Abbassi to work on the inscriptions of Sheikh Lotfollah Mosque. Behind the entrance hall of the mosque in a small chamber, there's a tomb which is the tomb of Mir Emad, the art rival of Ali Reza Abbassi. Maghsoudbeyk mosque was a very glorious and beautiful mosque in Isfahan in the Safavid era.\n"}
{"id": "50921484", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50921484", "title": "Melodeon Hall", "text": "Melodeon Hall\n\nMelodeon Hall is a historic meeting hall and theatre building located at Rushville, Rush County, Indiana. It was built in 1872, and is a two-story, Late Victorian style brick building. The Melodeon Hall is located on the second floor and measures 58 feet wide by 42 feet long. The lower level houses three shops.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1982. It is located in the Rushville Commercial Historic District.\n"}
{"id": "27829533", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27829533", "title": "Museumkwartier (Amsterdam)", "text": "Museumkwartier (Amsterdam)\n\nMuseumkwartier (Amsterdam) (the Museum Quarter) is a neighbourhood of Amsterdam, Netherlands, located in the borough of Amsterdam-Zuid. \n\nIt is bordered by the Stadhouderskade, Vondelpark, Emmastraat, Reinier Vinkeleskade and the Hobbemakade. \n\nThe area was developed following the construction of the Rijksmuseum. \n\nThe neighbourhood gets its name from the major museums at Museumplein; the Rijksmuseum, the Stedelijk Museum and Van Gogh Museum. Other attractions in the area include the Concertgebouw and the Vondelpark.\n\nThe tram lines 2, 3, 5, 12, 16 and 24 pass through the neighbourhood.\n"}
{"id": "8029024", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8029024", "title": "Noori Jam Tamachi", "text": "Noori Jam Tamachi\n\nNoori Jam Tamachi () is a famous tale of Prince Jam Tamachi's falling in love with the charming fisherwoman Noori. Noori makes Jam happy with her perfect surrender and obedience which causes him to raise her above all the other queens.\n\nThe story also appears in Shah Jo Risalo and forms part of seven popular tragic romances from Sindh, Pakistan. The other six tales are \"Umar Marvi\", \"Sassui Punnhun\", \"Sohni Mehar\", \"Lilan Chanesar\", \"Sorath Rai Diyach\" and \"Momal Rano\" commonly known as the Seven Queens of Sindh, or the Seven heroines of Shah Abdul Latif Bhittai.\n\nIt is the only story of fulfilled love and happiness and not of burning love and helpless search.\n\nJam Tamachi was a Samma prince, a ruler of Sindh, Thatta, Pakistan. There are three lakes lying between Jherruk and Thatta, called the Keenjhar, the Chholmari and Sonahri. On the banks of Keenjhar, broken walls are still visible that mark the site of an old fishing village. A girl of this class, Noori, attracts the attention of Jam Tamachi, who madly fell in love with her and raised her above the ladies of royal blood. She was also called \"Gandri\", her clean name.\n\nThis legend has been retold countless times and is often used as metaphor for divine love by Sufis. Its most beautiful rendering is in found in poetic compendium \"Shah Jo Risalo\" of Shah Abdul Latif Bhitai. By this anecdote, Shah shows that humility is great thing and is meant to rise in the favour of the creator.\n\nAccording to the legend, Noori was buried in the middle of Keenjhar Lake, Pakistan. Her last resting place is visited by hundreds of tourists daily.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3892858", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3892858", "title": "Palazzo Schifanoia", "text": "Palazzo Schifanoia\n\nPalazzo Schifanoia is a Renaissance palace in Ferrara, Emilia-Romagna (Italy) built for the Este family. The name \"Schifanoia\" is thought to originate from \"schivar la noia\" meaning literally to \"escape from boredom\" which describes accurately the original intention of the palazzo and the other villas in close proximity where the Este court relaxed. The highlights of its decorations are the allegorical frescoes with details in tempera by or after Francesco del Cossa and Cosmè Tura, executed ca 1469–70, a unique survival of their time.\n\nThis palace forms part of a catalogue of pleasure palaces for the Este family, including the following:\n\nThe \"Palace of Belfiore\" which once held the Studiolo of the Palazzo Belfiore, no longer exists.\n\nThe palace had its origins in a single-storey structure without wings built for Alberto V d'Este (1385), a small retreat intended solely for suppers and diversions (\"delizie\"), as a sort of banqueting house, with an urban front and a garden front. As the equivalent of a Roman \"villa suburbana\", the Palazzo Schifanoia long predated the first such pleasure villa built in Renaissance Rome, the Belvedere built for Nicholas V.\n\nIn 1452 Borso d'Este received the title of Duke for the imperial fiefs of Modena and Reggio Emilia that he held from Emperor Frederick III. The occasion for the cycle of frescoes was the expected investiture of Borso d'Este as Duke of Ferrara in 1471 by Pope Paul II. The subtext of the festivities embodied in the fresco cycle is the right ordering of mankind and nature under the good government of the Duke, the guarantor of peace and prosperity in the Este dominions. Under the commissions of Borso d'Este, the architect Pietro Benvenuto degli Ordini was called upon to develop a ducal apartment on an upper level, providing the building with a \"salone\" suitable for presentations of ambassadors and delegations, a counterpart of the governing structure of Ferrara housed in the former Palazzo della Ragione, destroyed in World War II. The palace was often used by Marfisa d'Este, a great patron of the arts.\n\nThere, in the \"Salone dei Mesi\" (\"Hall of the Months\"), Cosimo Tura's purely pagan cycle of the months presents the cycle of the year as an allegorical pageant with the appropriate Olympian gods presiding on their fanciful cars drawn by the beasts proper to each deity, with appropriate personifications of the constellations of the zodiac. The frescoes were realized circa 1469–70 by artisans of the d'Este household, the larger figures based on cartoons by Cosmé Tura, and the vignettes of the labors of the year and the activities of the Ferrarese court under the benevolent eye of Borso d'Este, flanked by astrological figures to designs by Francesco del Cossa and Ercole de' Roberti. The learned and elaborate scheme of the allegorical presentations must have come from the immediate circle of Borso d'Este, perhaps from the court astrologer, Pellegrino Prisciani, with some details drawn from Boccaccio's \"Genealogia deorum\".\n\nIn the \"Sala delle Virtù\" (\"Hall of Virtues\") nearby, the sculptor Domenico di Paris painted the stucco reliefs in a frieze of putti and symbols of the Cardinal and Theological Virtues, under a painted compartmented ceiling.\n\nThe façade was originally decorated with a cornice of feigned battlements, its surface smoothly stuccoed and decorated with geometric designs of highly colorful imitation marbles, which have been lost, lending a somewhat dour public face to Palazzo Schifanoia that was not what Borso d'Este intended. The rich white marble entrance door survives, though its tinted colors have weathered away and art historians disagree whether it is to be attributed to the painter-designer Francesco del Cossa or to Biagio Rossetti. Above the arched door, flanked by pilasters, the Este arms are displayed and the unicorn, a symbol of ducal benevolence and the source of patronage. In 1493 the terracotta cornice was added to designs by Biagio Rossetti, who was also commissioned by Ercole I d'Este to extend the palace.\n\nFrom the Salone dei Mesi the visitor once passed directly into the gardens reached by a monumental stair from the summer loggia, structures that were demolished in the 18th century. After the Este left Ferrara in 1598, the palazzo was inherited through successive heirs, eventually by the Tassoni family, its frescoes whitewashed over. Eventually, during administration of the duchy as part of the Papal States, with a Habsburg garrison, it became a tobacco warehouse and manufactory. When Palazzo Schifanoia came into the possession of the comune of Ferrara in the aftermath of World War I, only seven of the months in the \"Salone\" remained legible.\n\nPalazzo Schifanoia forms part of the heritage of Ferrara conserved under the umbrella of the Musei Civici d'Arte Antica di Ferrara. The 14th and 15th century rooms contain collections of antiquities, a numismatic collection and medals cast by Pisanello and other Quattrocento artists to commemorate members of the Este family.\n\n"}
{"id": "48822230", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48822230", "title": "Paris effect", "text": "Paris effect\n\nThe Paris effect is a sensation or feeling that heightens the enjoyment of a taste or smell of a food or beverage based on the circumstances of its consumption. It is named for Paris, France.\n\nThe effect was observed by Little Caesars Pizza founder Jim Savoy, an organic chemist who owned a pizza parlor in Blacksburg, Virginia. After selling the parlor to a group of investors, he became a wine merchant, and — at gatherings with fellow oenophiles — noticed that multiple wines manifested this phenomenon. When the drinker drank a wine they had previously drank in an exotic locale, that experience always rated higher than the present circumstances.\n\n"}
{"id": "5105796", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5105796", "title": "Prix Denise-Pelletier", "text": "Prix Denise-Pelletier\n\nThe Prix Denise-Pelletier is an award by the Government of Quebec that is part of the Prix du Québec, given to individuals for an outstanding career in the performing arts. It is awarded to a creator, performer, stage-craftsman or person who has made a noteworthy contribution in the fields of song, music, classical singing, theatre and dance. It is named in honour of Denise Pelletier.\n\n"}
{"id": "24180772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24180772", "title": "Public art in Vancouver", "text": "Public art in Vancouver\n\nPublic art in Vancouver is an important aspect of the urban environment. Large portions of public art are funded by the provincial and federal government. Up to 1% of the budget of a building can go towards the construction of public art.\n\nVancouver’s Public Art Program seeks to incorporate contemporary art practices into city planning and development. The program supports art-making of many kinds - emerging and established artists, in new and traditional media from stand-alone commissions to artist collaborations. The program is part of Cultural Services and oversees development of public art opportunities throughout the city. Civic projects at civic buildings, greenways, parks and other public spaces are funded through capital budgets. Private sector projects are funded by developments in the rezoning process.\n\nCoinciding with the 2010 Vancouver Olympics, the Public Art Program has commissioned various local artists to produce works, with projects such as Paul Wong's \"5\" project.\n"}
{"id": "24724977", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24724977", "title": "Right and Left", "text": "Right and Left\n\nRight and Left is a 1909 oil on canvas painting by the American artist Winslow Homer. It depicts a pair of common goldeneye ducks at the moment they are hit by a hunter's shotgun blast as they attempt to take flight. Completed less than two years before his death, it was Homer's last great painting, and has been the subject of a variety of interpretations regarding its origin, composition and meaning. As with his other late masterworks, it represents a return to the sporting and hunting subjects of Homer's earlier years, and was to be his final engagement with the theme. Its design recalls that of Japanese art, and the composition resembles that of a colored engraving by John James Audubon.\n\nIn May 1908 Homer suffered temporary impairment of his speech and muscular control as the effects of a mild stroke; on June 4 he wrote his brother Charles that \"I can paint as well as ever. I think my pictures better for having one eye in the pot and one eye up a chimney— a new departure in the art world.\" By July 18 he was able to write that he had regained his abilities with the exception of tying \"my neck tie in the way that I have done for the past 20 years...Every four or five days I try to do it but...it has been of no use.\" Although he never completely recovered, Homer was well enough to attempt a major work, and it is probably \"Right and Left\" that he referred to in a letter to his brother Charles dated December 8, 1908: \"I am painting when it is light enough on a most surprising picture\". \n\nHomer's biographers offer varying accounts of the events surrounding both the painting's conception and initial development. Homer's first biographer, William Howe Downes, wrote that the ducks used for the painting had been purchased by the artist for his Thanksgiving dinner; he so admired their plumage that he painted them instead. Homer's nephew told another of Homer's biographers, Philip Beam, that a friend of the artist named Phineas W. Sprague shot the birds in Prouts Neck that autumn and hung them on Homer's studio door, and the arrangement inspired the painting's design. Given the goldeneye's taste— Audubon called the duck \"fishy, and in my opinion unfit for being eaten\"— insofar as the implication is that the ducks were intended for food, neither story is altogether credible.\nLikewise there are different versions regarding Homer's preparatory methods. Downes recounted that Homer took to sea in a boat, accompanied by a man with a double-barreled shotgun, and studied the movements of birds as they were shot. In Beam's telling, Homer stood atop a cliff at Prouts Neck while his neighbor Will Googins, fired blank charges in his direction from a rowboat offshore. However, Homer was already familiar with this angle of shotgun blast, having in 1864 painted \"Defiance\", a Civil War subject of a soldier being shot at, and in 1892 \"A Good Shot, Adirondacks\", which shows the puff of distant rifle smoke and a mortally wounded deer hit in the foreground; the latter especially anticipates the composition and intent of \"Right and Left\".\n\nFor its \"restrained color and extraordinary composition\" the painting's debt to Japanese art has been noted by art historians. It has been compared to avian subjects by Okyo Maruyama, Hiroshige, and Hokusai, and was included in a major \"Japonisme\" exhibition in Paris in 1988. As well, it resembles John James Audubon's plate \"Golden-Eye Duck\". \n\nAgainst the tradition of birds painted as dead still life objects, \"Right and Left\" is unique for its depiction of the very moment of death. Despite their rapid movement, the birds are seen as if frozen in a snapshot, and the viewer is literally afforded a bird's eye view, in the line of the hunter's fire. Though the painting represents violent action, its formal aesthetic is that of sharply focused detachment, and has been described by Nicolai Cikovsky, Jr. of the National Gallery of Art as \"a staggeringly beautiful and almost oriental arrangement of birds--just abstract shapes against bands of the subtlest cream and grey\".\n\nThe design consists of four horizontal bands of sea and sky which are connected by a series of vertical and diagonal shapes formed by the ducks' bodies— the one at left (male) struggling to ascend, its partner in a similar position but turned 90 degrees, already falling limp— and wave crests. Additionally, the birds' webbed feet and beaks and the boat's bow repeat the jagged contours of the waves. Half hidden, the hunters occupy an ambiguous position, and it is uncertain whether the line above them denotes the horizon or a fog bank. Atop this line is the rim of the sun, depicted as a red sliver. At the right is a stray feather which \"serves as an exclamation point for the whole composition.\"\n\nThe painting was received by Knoedler & Co. gallery in New York by January 30, 1909, and was described by the gallery as \"The Golden Eye or Whistler Duck\". According to Downes the painting was initially exhibited without Homer's having titled it, and received its name from a hunter who shouted appreciatively \"Right and left!\", the term for a rifleman's accomplishment in taking down two birds in quick succession with a double-barreled shotgun. Upon viewing the painting in New York, its first owner, Randal Morgan, asked several questions regarding Homer's intent: he inquired as to the direction of the largest wave, and the cause of the disturbance in the water at the front of the picture, which he believed was the impetus for the ducks' movement to leave their feeding. The questions were forwarded to the artist, but his reply is unknown. On August 3, 1909 Morgan bought the painting for $5,000, $4,000 of which went to Homer.\n\nAlthough it is a painting of a sporting subject, and thus was part of a popular anecdotal tradition, given both the violence of the subject and the fact that it was painted the year before Homer's death, \"Right and Left\" has invited metaphysical interpretation. For art historian John Wilmerding, the painting embodied \"a sense of the momentary and the universal, mortality illuminated by showing these creatures at the juncture of life and death\". It represents the summation of Homer's sporting pictures, and presents its subject with an \"almost testamentary finality\". \n\nIt has also been suggested that in addition to summarizing interests that were lifelong for Homer, as well as referring to the works of previous artists, a modern and ironic meaning may have been intended as well: in 1908 air travel was a novel and transforming human achievement, one fraught with the adventure and danger of flight. Considering his worldly and pictorial intelligence, it is possible that Homer intended \"Right and Left\" as an oblique reference to this aspect of modern life.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "228658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=228658", "title": "Rolf Schock Prizes", "text": "Rolf Schock Prizes\n\nThe Rolf Schock Prizes were established and endowed by bequest of philosopher and artist Rolf Schock (1933–1986). The prizes were first awarded in Stockholm, Sweden, in 1993, and since 2005 are awarded every three years. Each recipient currently receives SEK 400,000 (\"ca.\" US$ 60,000). A similar prize is the Kyoto Prize in Arts and Philosophy, established by the Inamori Foundation.\n\nThe Prizes are awarded in four categories and decided by committees of three of the Swedish Royal Academies:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "41742377", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41742377", "title": "Skeet (Newfoundland)", "text": "Skeet (Newfoundland)\n\nSkeet is a stereotype and pejorative epithet in Newfoundland English, describing a lower class youth, \"ignorant, aggressive and unruly,\" and use non-standard English language, drug and alcohol use, and petty crime. The term is similar to the English chav or American white trash or wigger. Sandra Clarke suggests the term may be related to the Prince Edward Island word \"skite\" (a young scoundrel).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6572156", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6572156", "title": "Synesthesia in art", "text": "Synesthesia in art\n\nThe phrase synesthesia in art has historically referred to a wide variety of artists experiments that have explored the co-operation of the senses (e.g. seeing and hearing; the word synesthesia is from the Ancient Greek σύν (syn), \"together,\" and αἴσθησις (aisthēsis), \"sensation\") in the genres of visual music, music visualization, audiovisual art, abstract film, and intermedia (Campen 2007, Jewanski & Sidler 2006, Moritz 2003, 1999, Berman 1999, Maur 1999, Gage 1994, 1999). The age-old artistic views on synesthesia have some overlap with the current neuroscientific view on neurological synesthesia, but also some major differences, e.g. in the contexts of investigations, types of synesthesia selected, and definitions. While in neuroscientific studies synesthesia is defined as the elicitation of perceptual experiences in the absence of the normal sensory stimulation, in the arts the concept of synaesthesia is more often defined as the simultaneous perception of two or more stimuli as one gestalt experience (Campen 2009). \nThe usage of the term synesthesia in art should, therefore, be differentiated from neurological synesthesia in scientific research. Synesthesia is by no means unique to artists or musicians. Only in the last decades have scientific methods become available to assess synesthesia in persons. For synesthesia in artists before that time one has to interpret (auto)biographical information. For instance, there has been debate on the neurological synesthesia of historical artists like Kandinsky and Scriabin (cf. Jewanski & Sidler 2006, Ione 2004, Dann 1999, Galeyev 2001). \nAdditionally, Synesthetic art may refer to either art created by synesthetes or art created to elicit synesthetic experience in the general audience.\n\nWhen discussing synesthesia in art, a distinction needs to be made between two possible meanings:\n\nThese distinctions are not mutually exclusive, as, for example, art by a synesthete might also evoke synesthesia-like experiences in the viewer. However, it should not be assumed that all \"synesthetic\" art accurately reflects the synesthetic experience. For more on artists who either were synesthetes themselves, or who attempted to create synesthesia-like mappings in their art, see the list of people with synesthesia.\n\nSeveral contemporary visual artists have discussed their artistic process, and how synesthesia helps them in this, at length.\n\nCarol Steen experiences multiple forms of synesthesia, including grapheme → color synesthesia, music → color synesthesia, and touch → color synesthesia. She most often uses her music → color synesthesia and touch → color synesthesia in creating her works of art, which often involves attempting to capture, select, and transmit her synesthetic experiences into her paintings. Steen describes how her synesthetic experience during an acupuncture session led to the creation of the painting \"Vision\".\n\nRather than trying to create depictions of what she experiences, \"Reflectionist\" Marcia Smilack uses her synesthetic experience in guiding her towards creating images that are aesthetically pleasing and appealing to her. Smilack takes pictures of reflected objects, mostly using the surface of the water, and says of her photography style:\n\nAnne Salz, a Dutch musician and visual artist, perceives music in colored patterns. She describes her painting inspired by Vivaldi’s \"Concerto for Four Violins\":\n\nShe explains that the painting is not a copy of what she hears; rather, when she listens to music, she perceives more colorful textures than she normally perceives and she is able to depict them in the painting. She also expresses the movement of the music, as its energy influences the pictorial composition. She explains how she perceives the painting:\nAnne Patterson, a New York-based artist with a background in theatrical set design, describes the genesis of her installation of 20 miles of silk ribbons suspended from the vaulted ceiling arches of San Francisco's Grace Cathedral, which was inspired by a cello performance of Bach:\n\nBrandy Gale, a Santa Cruz, California-based Canadian painter and photographer \"experiences an involuntary joining or crossing of any of her senses – hearing, vision, taste, touch, smell and movement. Gale paints from life rather than from photographs and by exploring the sensory panorama of each locale attempts to capture, select, and transmit these personal experiences.\"\n\nIn addition to her field work, Gale also paints live, sometimes performing her painting experience live before an audience with musical accompaniment, as she did at the 2013 EG Conference in Monterey, CA. with cellist Philip Sheppard, at the Oakland Garden of Memory in June 2014 with her husband, guitarist and composer Henry Kaiser, and with Kaiser and guitarist Ava Mendoza at The Stone in NYC. Gale's 2014 solo exhibition \"Coastal Synaesthesia:Paintings and Photographs of Hawaii, Fiji and California\" was held at Gualala Arts Gallery, Gualala, CA.\n\nPerhaps the most famous work which might be thought to evoke synesthesia-like experiences in a non-synesthete audience is the Disney film Fantasia, although it is unknown if this was intentional or not. Another classical example is the use of the color organ which would project colored lights along with the musical notes, to create a synesthetic experience in the audience (Campen 2007, Jewanski & Sidler 2006).\nWassily Kandinsky working in the 1920s, may not have been a synesthete, despite his fame for his synesthetic artwork. Many of his paintings and stage pieces were based upon a set and established system of correspondences between colors and the timbres of specific musical instruments. Kandinsky himself, however, stated that his correspondences between colors and musical timbres have no \"scientific\" basis, but were founded upon a combination of his own personal feelings, current prevailing cultural biases, and mysticism (; ; Jewanski & Sidler 2006, Campen 2007).\n\nThe interest in synesthesia is at least as old as Greek philosophy. One of the questions that the classic philosophers asked was if color (chroia, what we now call timbre) of music was a physical quality that could be quantified (Campen 2007, Gage 1994, Ferwerda & Struycken 2001, Jewanski 1999). The first known experiment to test correspondences between sound and color was conducted by the Milanese artist Giuseppe Arcimboldo at the end of the sixteenth century. He consulted with a musician at the court of Rudolph II in Prague to create a new experiment that sought to show the colors that accompany music. He decided to place different colored strips of painted paper on the gravicembalo, a keyboard instrument (Gage, 1994). He was also an artist who created strange portraits from unusual objects, such as \"Four Seasons in One Head\". The problem of finding a mathematical system to explain the connection between music and color has both inspired and frustrated artists and scientists throughout the ages. The seventeenth-century physicist Isaac Newton tried to solve the problem by assuming that musical tones and color tones have frequencies in common. He attempted to link sound oscillations to respective light waves. According to Newton, the distribution of white light in a spectrum of colors is analogous to the musical distribution of tones in an octave. So, he identified seven discrete light entities, that he then matched to the seven discrete notes of an octave (Campen 2007, Peacock 1988).\n\nInspired by Newton’s theory of music-color correspondences, the French Jesuit Louis-Bertrand Castel designed a color harpsichord (clavecin oculaire) with colored strips of paper which rose above the cover of the harpsichord whenever a particular key was hit (Campen 2007, Franssen 1991). Renowned masters like Telemann and Rameau were actively engaged in the development of a clavecins oculaire. The invention of the gas light in the nineteenth century created new technical possibilities for the color organ. In England between 1869 and 1873, the inventor Frederick Kastner developed an organ that he named a Pyrophone. The British inventor Alexander Rimington, a professor in fine arts in London, documented the phrase ‘Colour-Organ’ for the first time in a patent application in 1893. Inspired by Newton’s idea that music and color are both grounded in vibrations, he divided the color spectrum into intervals analogous to musical octaves and attributed colors to notes. The same notes in a higher octave produced the same color tone but then in a lighter value (Peacock 1988). Around the turn of the century, concerts with light and musical instruments were given quite regularly. As most technical problems had been conquered, the psychological questions concerning the effects of these performances came to the fore. The Russian composer Alexander Scriabin was particularly interested in the psychological effects on the audience when they experienced sound and color simultaneously. His theory was that when the correct color was perceived with the correct sound, ‘a powerful psychological resonator for the listener’ would be created. His most famous synesthetic work, which is still performed today, is Prometheus, Poem of Fire. On the score of Prometheus, he wrote next to the instruments separate parts for the tastiere per luce, the color organ (Campen 2007, Galeyev 2001, Gleich 1963).\n\nIn the second half the nineteenth century, a tradition of musical paintings began to appear that influenced symbolist painters (Campen 2007, Van Uitert 1978). In the first decades of the twentieth century, a German artist group called The Blue Rider (Der Blaue Reiter) executed synesthetic experiments that involved a composite group of painters, composers, dancers and theater producers. The group focused on the unification of the arts by means of \"Total Works of Art\" (Gesamtkunstwerk) (Von Maur 2001, Hahl-Koch 1985, Ione 2004). Kandinsky's theory of synesthesia, as formulated in the booklet \"Concerning the Spiritual in Art\" (1910), helped to shape the ground for these experiments. He described synesthesia as a phenomenon of transposition of experience from one sense modality to another, as in unisonous musical tones (Kandinsky 1910, Düchting 1996). Kandinsky was not the only artist at this time with an interest in synesthetic perception. A study of the art at the turn of the century reveals in the work of almost every progressive or avant-garde artist an interest in the correspondences of music and visual art. Modern artists experimented with multi-sensory perception like the simultaneous perception of movement in music and film (Von Maur 2001, Heyrman 2003).\n\nStarting in the late 1950s, electronic music and electronic visual art have co-existed in the same digital medium (Campen 2007, Collopy 2000, Jewanski & Sidler 2006, Moritz 2003). Since that time, the interaction of these fields of art has increased tremendously. Nowadays, students of art and music have digital software at their disposal that uses both musical and visual imagery. Given the capability of the Internet to publish and share digital productions, this has led to an enormous avalanche of synesthesia-inspired art on the Internet (Campen 2007) (cf. website RhythmicLight.com on the history of visual music). For instance, Stephen Malinowski and Lisa Turetsky from Berkeley, California wrote a software program, entitled the Music Animation Machine, that translates and shows music pieces in colored measures.\n\nWith today’s knowledge and testing apparatus, it can be determined with more certainty if contemporary artists are synesthetic. By interviewing these artists, one gets some insights into the process of painting music (cf. Steen, Smilack, Salz). The lines of artistic explorations of synesthesia and scientific research into the subject have become closely intertwined in the last decade. Some contemporary artists are active members of synesthesia associations in the United States, United Kingdom, Germany, Italy, Spain, Belgium and other countries (cf. Arte Citta) . In and outside these associations that house scientists and artists, the exchange of ideas and collaborations between artists and scientists has grown rapidly in the last decades (cf. the Leonardo online bibliography Synesthesia in Art and Science) , and this is only a small selection of synesthetic work in the arts. New artistic projects on synesthesia are appearing every year. These painters, sculptors, designers and musicians have shown to be well-informed on the latest scientific insights in synesthesia. They combine this scientific knowledge and personal intuition in a range of artistic expressions. For instance they capture their synesthetic perceptions in painting, photographs, textile work, and sculptures. Beside these ‘classical’ materials of making art, an even larger production of synesthesia-inspired works is noticed in the field of digital art (Campen 2007).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13399638", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13399638", "title": "The Edge of Heaven (film)", "text": "The Edge of Heaven (film)\n\nThe Edge of Heaven (, literally \"On the Other Side\", ) is a 2007 Turkish-German drama written and directed by Fatih Akın. The film won the Prix du scénario at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, was Germany's entry in the category Best Foreign Language Film at the 2007 Oscars, but was not nominated.\n\nAfter making its worldwide debut at the Cannes Film Festival in France, the film was shown at several international film festivals. It was released in Germany on 27 September 2007.\n\nRetired widower Ali Aksu (Tuncel Kurtiz), a Turkish immigrant living in the German city of Bremen, believes he has found a solution to his loneliness when he meets Yeter Öztürk (Nursel Köse). He offers her a monthly payment to stop working as a prostitute and move in with him. After receiving threats from two Turkish Muslims for the work she does, she decides to accept his offer. Ali's son, Nejat Aksu (Baki Davrak), a professor of German literature, does not have time to respond to the prospect of living with a woman of \"easy virtue\" before Ali is stricken with a heart attack. He softens to her: he learns that she has told her 27-year-old daughter she is a shoe saleswoman, sending shoes to her in Turkey to support that story, and wishes her daughter could receive an education like his.\n\nBack home from the hospital, Ali suspects Yeter and his son may have had a liaison. When his drunken demands of Yeter cause her to threaten to leave, he strikes her and she dies from the blow. Ali is sent to prison.\n\nNejat travels to Istanbul to search for Yeter's daughter, Ayten (Nurgül Yeşilçay), and assumes responsibility for her education. Unable to locate her through her family and not having any recent photos of her, he posts flyers with Yeter's photo throughout the area, in hope that it will lead to the daughter. When he posts a flyer in a small German language bookstore that happens to be for sale, he finds himself charmed into buying it.\n\nA plainclothes officer loses his gun on the street during a riot. A hooded figure scoops it up and is pursued on foot by a battalion of uniformed officers, barely managing to hide the contraband on a random rooftop. This is Ayten, member of a Turkish anti-government resistance group.\n\nWhen her cell is raided, she flees Turkey and takes up a new identity with political allies in Bremen, Germany. However, even there, she has a falling out when she is unable to pay them money she owes, and thus finds herself on the street with barely a euro to her name. Her mother's number is lost, so she lives illegally and searches for her in local shoe shops.\n\nLotte, a university student, offers to help her with food, clothes, and a place to stay—a gesture which is not particularly welcomed by her mother, Susanne. Ayten and Lotte become lovers and Lotte decides to help Ayten search for her mother. The quest is cut short when a traffic stop exposes Ayten's illegal status and she attempts a claim of political asylum. Despite Susanne's financial support, Germany rules that Ayten has no legitimate fear of political persecution. She is deported and immediately imprisoned.\n\nLotte is devastated. She travels to Turkey to try to free Ayten, but quickly realizes how little hope there is, as she is facing 15 to 20 years in jail. Susanne pleads with her to think of her future and return home. When Lotte refuses, her mother denies her any further assistance. Lotte gravitates to Nejat's bookstore and ends up renting a spare room from him.\n\nFinally granted a prison visit with Ayten, Lotte complies with her imprisoned lover's request and retrieves the handgun Ayten grabbed in the riot. But Lotte's bag, with the gun inside, is snatched by a crew of boys that she then chases through their neighborhood. When finally she finds them in a vacant lot, one of them is inspecting the gun. She demands he return it, but he points it at her and fires, killing her instantly.\n\nUpon his release, Ali is deported to Turkey, returning to his property in Trabzon on the Black Sea coast.\n\nAfter her daughter's death, Susanne goes to Istanbul to see where her daughter had been living the past few months. She meets Nejat and reads her daughter's diary; she decides to take on her daughter's mission of freeing Ayten from prison. Susanne's visit to Ayten—an offer of forgiveness and support—leads the younger woman to exercise her right of repentance. As a result, she wins her freedom.\n\nSusanne asks Nejat about the story behind a Bayram festival they hear about, learning that it commemorates Ibrahim's sacrifice of his son Ishmael. She comments that there is the same story in the Bible, where Abraham is asked to sacrifice his son Isaac. Nejat reminisces about being scared by the story as a child and asking his father if he would sacrifice him if God told him to. When asked by Susanne what his father's answer was, Nejat tells her that his father said \"He would make God his enemy in order to protect me.\"\n\nNejat removes the flyer of Yeter from the shop's noticeboard. He asks Susanne to look after his shop while he is gone, and drives to Trabzon, where his father is living.\n\nSusanne offers Ayten a place to stay with her at Nejat's house. When Nejat arrives in Trabzon, his father is out fishing, so he waits for him on the beach.\n\n\nFilming took place in Bremen and Hamburg, Germany; at Taksim and Kadıköy in Istanbul; and on the Black Sea coast in Trabzon, Turkey.\n\nThe film received positive reviews from Western critics. Review aggregator Rotten Tomatoes reported that 90% of critics gave the movie positive reviews, based on 77 reviews, with an average rating of 7.8/10. The website's critical consensus reads, \"Evocative and complex, this story of struggling immigrants in Germany will stay with you after you leave the theater.\" Metacritic reported the film had an average score of 85 out of 100, based on 26 reviews, indicating \"universal acclaim\".\n\nThe film appeared on many US critics' top ten lists of the best films of 2008.\n\n\nAfter winning the Best Screenplay Award at the 2007 Cannes Film Festival, the film won the Lino Brocka Award in the International Cinema category at the 2007 Cinemanila International Film Festival in the Philippines. Five awards followed at Antalya Golden Orange Film Festival (best director, editing, supporting actor, supporting actress and special jury award), and then it won:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1780941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1780941", "title": "The Hot Zone", "text": "The Hot Zone\n\nThe Hot Zone: A Terrifying True Story is a best-selling 1995 nonfiction thriller by Richard Preston about the origins and incidents involving viral hemorrhagic fevers, particularly ebolaviruses and marburgviruses. The basis of the book was Preston's 1992 \"New Yorker\" article \"Crisis in the Hot Zone\".\n\nThe filoviruses, Ebola virus, Sudan virus, Marburg virus, and Ravn virus are Biosafety Level 4 agents. Biosafety Level 4 agents are extremely dangerous to humans because they are very infectious, have a high case-fatality rate, and have no known prophylactics, treatments, or cures.\n\nAlong with describing the history of the diseases caused by these two Central African diseases, Ebola virus disease and Marburg virus disease, Preston described a 1989 incident in which a relative of Ebola virus, named Reston virus, was discovered at a primate quarantine facility in Reston, Virginia, less than 15 miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C. The virus found at the facility was a mutated form of the original Ebola virus and was initially mistaken for Simian hemorrhagic fever. The original Reston facility involved in the incident, located at 1946 Isaac Newton Square, was subsequently demolished on 30 May 1995, and a new building was constructed in its place.\n\nThe book is in four sections:\n\n\nThe book starts with \"Charles Monet\" visiting Kitum Cave during a camping trip to Mount Elgon in Central Africa. Not long after, he begins to suffer from a number of symptoms, including vomiting, diarrhea and red eye. He is soon taken to Nairobi Hospital for treatment, but his condition deteriorates further and he goes into a coma while in the waiting room. This particular filovirus is called Marburg virus.\n\nDr. Nancy Jaax had been promoted to work in the Level 4 Biosafety containment area at the United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases, and is assigned to research Ebola virus. While preparing food for her family at home, she cuts her right hand. Later, while working on a dead monkey infected with Ebola virus, one of the gloves on the hand with the open wound tears, and she is almost exposed to contaminated blood, but does not get infected. Nurse Mayinga is also infected by a nun and elects to visit Nairobi Hospital for treatment, where she succumbs to the disease.\n\nIn Reston, Virginia, less than fifteen miles (24 km) away from Washington, D.C., a company called Hazelton Research once operated a quarantine center for monkeys that were destined for laboratories. In October 1989, when an unusually high number of their monkeys began to die, their veterinarian decided to send some samples to Fort Detrick (USAMRIID) for study. Early during the testing process in biosafety level 3, when one of the flasks appeared to be contaminated with harmless pseudomonas bacterium, two USAMRIID scientists exposed themselves to the virus by wafting the flask. They later determine that, while the virus is terrifyingly lethal to monkeys, humans can be infected with it without any health effects at all. This virus is now known as Reston virus.\n\nFinally, the author himself goes into Africa to explore Kitum Cave. On the way, he discusses the role of AIDS in the present, as the highway they were on, sometimes called the \"AIDS Highway\", or the \"Kinshasa Highway\", was where it first appeared. Equipped with a hazmat suit, he enters the cave and finds a large number of animals, one of which might be the virus carrier. At the conclusion of the book, he travels to the quarantine facility in Reston. He finds the building abandoned and deteriorating. He concludes the book by claiming that Ebola will be back.\n\nThe discovery of the Reston virus was made in November 1989 by Thomas W. Geisbert, an intern at United States Army Medical Research Institute of Infectious Diseases. Dr. Peter B. Jahrling isolated the filovirus further. The Center for Disease Control and Prevention conducted blood tests of the 178 animal handlers. While 6 tested positive, they did not exhibit any symptoms. The Reston virus was found to have low pathogenicity in humans. This was further supported later when a handler infected himself during a necroscopy of an infected monkey. However, the handler did not show symptoms of the virus after the incubation period.\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" was listed as one of around 100 books that shaped a century of science by \"American Scientist\". Listed as an “Exploration,” the criteria dictate that the book typically “seeks to engage with the context” elucidating the general topic rather than a specific nuance.\n\nMany reviews of \"The Hot Zone\" exemplify the impact the book had on the public’s view of emerging viruses. A review in the \"British Medical Journal\" captures the paranoia and public panic described in this book. The reviewer was left “wondering when and where this enigmatic agent will appear next and what other disasters may await human primates.” This can also be seen in a review in the \"Public Health Reports\" which highlights the “seriousness of our current situation” and “our ability to respond to a major health threat.”\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" has been criticized for exaggerating the threat of Ebola and causing viral panic. In an interview about his book about Ebola, David Quammen claimed that \"The Hot Zone\" had “vivid, gruesome details” that gave an “exaggerated idea of Ebola over the years” causing “people to view this disease as though it was some sort of preternatural phenomenon.”\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" is described as a “romantic account of environmental transgression.” Reactions to this book could be seen not only in the public’s view of emerging viruses, but in the changes in the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. In addition to the funding of public health infrastructure during the early 1970s, there were many public discussions of biodefense. This book continued to fuel the emerging diseases campaign. By connecting international health to national security, this campaign used \"The Hot Zone\" as a method of justifying increased intervention in the global phenomena of disease.\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" elicited a major response by the WHO by shedding light on the Ebola Zaire outbreak. The release of teams of experts was immediate and massive. Many countries tightened their borders, issued warnings to custom officials, quarantined travelers, and issued travel advisories.\n\nIn his blurb, horror writer Stephen King called the first chapter, \"one of the most horrifying things I've read in my whole life.\" When asked whether any book \"scared the pants off you\" writer Suzanne Collins answered, \"\"The Hot Zone\", by Richard Preston. I just read it a few weeks ago. Still recovering.\"\n\n\"The Hot Zone\" has received criticism for sensationalizing the effects of Ebola virus. In their memoir \"Level 4: Virus Hunters of the CDC\", former CDC scientists Joseph B. McCormick and Susan Fisher-Hoch lambasted Preston for claiming that Ebola dissolves organs, stating that although it causes great blood loss in tissues the organs remain structurally intact. McCormick and Fisher-Hoch also dispute Preston's version of the CDC's actions in the Reston virus incident.\n\nIn January 1993, 20th Century Fox and producer Lynda Obst won a bidding war for the film rights to Preston's 1992 \"New Yorker\" article, which was being transitioned into the book. In response to being outbid, Warner Bros. producer Arnold Kopelson immediately began working on the similarly themed \"Outbreak\", a competing film which would ultimately be a factor leading to the collapse of \"Crisis in The Hot Zone\".\n\nDirectors considered for the film adaptation included Wolfgang Petersen (who would later direct \"Outbreak\"), Michael Mann, and Ridley Scott. Scott eventually signed on to direct the film in February 1994. Screenwriter James V. Hart was also signed to adapt the book. In late-April 1994, Fox announced they had signed Robert Redford and Jodie Foster to star in the film.\n\nHowever, this version would ultimately not be made. Foster dropped out of the film just before filming was to begin and production was delayed with Meryl Streep, Sharon Stone, and Robin Wright touted as possible replacements. In August 1994, Redford also dropped out of the film. A few days following Redford's departure, it was announced that pre-production had been shut down.\n\nOn October 16, 2014, \"The Hollywood Reporter\" announced that Ridley Scott again plans to adapt the book, this time as a television miniseries for NatGeo. Kelly Souders, Brian Peterson, and Jeff Vintar wrote the pilot. Julianna Margulies is starring as Nancy Jaax. Filming begins in September 2018. Lynda Obst will again produce the series.\n\n\nNotes\nBibliography\n\nFurther reading\n\n"}
{"id": "18406986", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18406986", "title": "The Human Condition (Magritte)", "text": "The Human Condition (Magritte)\n\nThe Human Condition (La condition humaine) generally refers to two similar oil on canvas paintings by the Belgian surrealist René Magritte. One was completed in 1933 and is in the collection of the National Gallery of Art in Washington DC. The other was completed in 1935 and is part of the Simon Spierer Collection in Geneva, Switzerland. A number of drawings of the same name exist as well, including one at the Cleveland Museum of Art.\n\nOne of Magritte's most common artistic devices was the use of objects to hide what lies behind them. For example, in \"The Son of Man\" (1964) an apple hides the face of a man wearing a bowler hat, and in \"The Pleasure Principle\" (1937) a bright flash likewise obscures a face. In \"The Human Condition\", the cover-up appears in the form a painting within a painting.\n\nMagritte had this to say of his 1933 work:\n\nMagritte continues his explanation in a letter to the Belgian poet Achille Chavée. \n\nPaintings within paintings appear frequently in Magritte works. \"Euclidean Walks\" (1955) is a work perhaps most like \"The Human Condition.\" It places a canvas in front of a high window depicting the tower of a close building and a street below. In \"The Fair Captive\" (1947), there is a beach scene with an easel set up. As in the previous cases it holds a canvas depicting what the viewer might expect to be behind it. This time though, flames from a burning tuba in front of the frame are seen \"reflected.\" \"The Call of the Peaks\" (1942) shows a mountain canvas in front of a mountain background which is buffeted on the right by a curtain.\n\nThe list of similar works can easily be extended to include such paintings as \"The Key to the Fields\" (1936), its 1964 reincarnation \"Evening Falls\" and the 1942 work \"The Domain of Arnheim\", all of which feature broken windows whose shattered glass pieces on the floor still show the outside world they used to conceal.\n\nAnother series of pieces which show both strong similarities and strong differences from \"The Human Condition\" are the works titled \"The Alarm Clock\". In these works, a painting is placed on an easel in front of a window or on a balcony with a simple landscape in the background. However, the painting does not show what may possibly be behind, but is instead an upside-down basic fruit still life.\n\nAnalysis: At first, one automatically assumes that the painting on the easel depicts the portion of the landscape outside the window that it hides from view. After a moment's consideration, however, one realizes that this assumption is based upon a false premise: that is, that the imagery of Magritte's painting is real, while the painting on the easel is a representation of that reality. In fact, there is no difference between them. Both are part of the same painting, the same artistic fabrication. It is perhaps to this repeating cycle, in which the viewer, even against his will, sees the one as real and the other as representation, that Magritte's title makes reference. \n"}
{"id": "290469", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=290469", "title": "The Joy of Painting", "text": "The Joy of Painting\n\nThe Joy of Painting is an American half-hour instructional television show hosted by painter Bob Ross which ran from January 11, 1983 until May 17, 1994. In each episode, Ross taught techniques for landscape oil painting, completing a painting in each session. The program followed the same format as its predecessor, \"The Magic of Oil Painting\", hosted by Ross's mentor Bill Alexander. During its run, it won three Emmy Awards.\n\nBroadcast by non-commercial public television stations, the show's first season was in 1983, and initially produced by WNVC in Falls Church, Virginia, then by WIPB in Muncie, Indiana, from 1984 until the show ended in 1994, and later by Blue Ridge Public Television in Roanoke, Virginia. Most of the series was distributed by what is now American Public Television. Reruns continued to air in syndication in the United States under the title \"The Best of The Joy of Painting\", featuring a collection of Bob Ross's favorite paintings from past seasons.\n\nEach 30-minute show usually begins with Ross (or a guest) standing in front of a blank canvas against a white or black background. Guests included Ross's long-time friend Dana Jester, along with Ross's son Steve, his old instructor John Thamm, and many others. Within the 30-minute program, Ross graphically ran the colors across the screen (this was not done in earlier seasons), as he turned the blank canvas into an imaginary landscape, using the wet-on-wet oil painting technique, in which the painter continues adding paint on top of still-wet paint rather than waiting for each layer of paint to dry. Combining this method with the use of two-inch and other types of brushes, as well as painting knives, allowed him to paint trees, water, clouds, and mountains in a matter of seconds.\n\nEach painting would start with simple strokes that appeared to be nothing more than the smudges of color. As he added more and more strokes, the blotches transformed into intricate landscapes. As he painted, he instructed viewers regarding the techniques he was using, he added comments describing the \"happy little clouds\" and \"happy little trees\" that he was creating. He would also have home video footage of Ross with a baby squirrel, deer, raccoon, as well as another small animal. Each program was shot in real time with two cameras: a medium shot of Ross and his canvas, and a close-up shot of the canvas or palette. At the end of each episode, Ross was known for saying something akin to, \"So from all of us here, I'd like to wish you happy painting, and God bless, my friend\", and then, the credits roll over a shot of the day's painting, with the show's theme song being heard.\n\nRoss created three versions of each painting for each episode of the show. The first, painted prior to taping, sat on an easel, off-camera, and was used by Ross as a template to create the second copy—the one viewers actually watched him paint. After taping the episode, Ross painted a third, more detailed version for inclusion in his instructional books. All three versions were then donated to various PBS stations.\n\nThe first season of \"The Joy of Painting\" aired on many PBS stations across the east coast, but the audience was small. And the quality of the audio and video was so poor, that the first season may never air again. Bob would have to look for a new home on public television. This time, at WIPB in Muncie, Indiana.\n\nNow with a national audience, \"The Joy of Painting\" was produced by WIPB in Muncie, Indiana. However, WIPB continued producing \"The Joy of Painting\" until the show's ending in 1994.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nThe 31st and final season of \"The Joy of Painting\" aired on PBS in 1994, before the death of Bob Ross on July 4, 1995.\n\nAs part of its launch of Twitch Creative, Twitch.tv streamed every episode of \"The Joy of Painting\" over a nine-day period starting on October 29, 2015, what would have been Ross' 73rd birthday. Twitch reported that 5.6 million viewers watched the marathon, and due to its popularity, created a weekly rebroadcast of all 31 seasons of \"The Joy of Painting\" to air on Twitch each Monday from November 2015 onward, and will have a marathon of episodes each October 29. A portion of the advertising revenue has been promised to charities, including St. Jude Children's Research Hospital. This event was also repeated on October 29, 2016 for his 74th birthday.\nIn 1993, Ross made TV commercials for MTV.\nIn 2015, all 403 episodes of \"The Joy of Painting\" were added to the official Bob Ross YouTube channel.\nIn 1994, Bob Ross appeared on \"Bill Nye the Science Guy\", where he did a self-parody segment entitled \"The Artistic Eye with Bob Ross\".\nIn June 2016, Netflix repackaged several 1991–1992 episodes of \"The Joy of Painting\" under the moniker \"Beauty Is Everywhere\". A second package of episodes titled \"Chill with Bob Ross\" was added in December.\n\nIn November 2017, the first teaser trailer for the 2018 film \"Deadpool 2\" was released, featuring a parody of \"The Joy of Painting\".\n\n"}
{"id": "43011420", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43011420", "title": "Thyestes (Seneca)", "text": "Thyestes (Seneca)\n\nThyestes is a first century AD \"fabula crepidata\" (Roman tragedy with Greek subject) of approximately 1112 lines of verse by Lucius Annaeus Seneca, which tells the story of Thyestes, who unwittingly ate his own children who were slaughtered and served at a banquet by his brother Atreus. As with most of Seneca's plays, \"Thyestes\" is based upon an older Greek version with the same name by Euripides.\n\n\nPelops, the son of Tantalus, had banished his sons for the murder of their half-brother, Chrysippus, with a curse upon them. Upon the death of Pelops, Atreus returned and took possession of his father’s throne. Thyestes, also, claimed the throne: he seduced his brother’s wife, Aërope, and stole by her assistance the magical, gold-fleeced ram from Atreus’ flocks, upon the possession of which the right to rule was said to rest. For this act he was banished by the king. But Atreus has long been meditating a more complete revenge upon his brother; and now in pretended friendship has recalled him from banishment, offering him a place beside himself upon the throne. \n\nTantalus is brought from the underworld by the Fury, and he is compelled to foster the wicked enmity between his grandsons, Atreus and Thyestes, the sons of Pelops.\n\nThe Chorus invokes the presiding deities of the cities in Peloponnesus, that they will prevent and avert the wickedness and crimes that are now hatching in the Palace of Pelops, and chants of the impious crimes of Tantalus.\n\nAtreus consults with his guard as to the best way of carrying out vengeance on his brother. The guard, however, will not listen, and advises him only to do what is right. But Atreus decides on an impious and horrible plan for executing his revenge.\n\nThe Chorus reproves the ambition of rulers, and points out what a true king should be, and lastly sings in praise of a retired life.\n\nThyestes being recalled by his brother Atreus, via his sons, returns to his country, not however without distrust, and a mind foreshadowing disaster. His sons are tendered as hostages, so that he will return.\n\nAtreus has entrapped his brother, and applauds silently to himself. He goes forth to meet him pretending to forgive.\n\nThe Chorus, apparently oblivious to the preceding act, praises the fraternal affection of Atreus which has put aside the hatred and differences between the brothers, in much the same way as the calm which follows a storm illustrates.\n\nA Messenger who was present, reports the cruel deed of Atreus, and how the three children were killed and then served up to Thyestes at the horrible feast.\n\nThe Chorus, observing the going down of the Sun, becomes alarmed, fearing that the whole fabric of the universe should dissolve into fragments and lapse into eternal chaos.\n\nWicked Atreus gleefully congratulates himself on his cruel revenge, and reveals to his brother Thyestes the dreadful feast which he had eaten, and the serving up of the blood of his sons.\n\nAn aspect of Thyestes that is not well understood is the existence of the Chorus, which, following Greek practice, appears after the first Act. This would explain why they are unaware of what happened with Tantalus and the Fury. Critics believe that this is due to the fact that Seneca expected the play to be acted out, which would explain the Chorus' ignorance throughout much of the play. The second chorus is unfamiliar with what happened in Act II because they were not present on stage at that time. This is why they were unaware of Atreus' true plans to trick Thyestes and feed him his own children. It was not until Act IV that they were told of Atreus' crimes by the messenger. Some critics think that the contrast between what the Chorus says and what actually happens is confusing to the audience, which is why the Chorus is the least understood aspect of Senecan dramas.\n\nIn 1560 Jasper Heywood, then a Fellow of All Souls College, Oxford, published a verse translation, which was republished in 1581 as part of \"Seneca, his tenne tragedies, translated into Englyſh\". Watson Bradshaw composed a prose English translation in 1902. In 1907, Frank Justus Miller published a verse translation which was included in the original Loeb Classical Library. A new Loeb edition of Seneca's tragedies by John G. Fitch was published in 2002. \n\nShakespeare's tragedy \"Titus Andronicus\" derives some of its plot elements from the story of Thyestes. In 1681, John Crowne wrote \"Thyestes, A Tragedy\", based closely on Seneca's Thyestes, but with the incongruous addition of a love story. Prosper Jolyot Crebillon (1674-1762) wrote a tragedy \"Atree et Thyeste\" (1707), which is prominent in two tales of ratiocination by Edgar Allan Poe. In 1796, Ugo Foscolo (1778–1827) wrote a tragedy called \"Tieste\" that was represented first in Venice one year later. Caryl Churchill, a British dramatist, also wrote a rendition of \"Thyestes.\" Caryl's specific translation was performed at the Royal Court Theater Upstairs in London on June 7, 1994 In 2004, Jan van Vlijmen (1935–2004) completed his opera \"Thyeste\". The libretto was a text in French by Hugo Claus, based on his 20th century play with the same title (in Dutch: \"Thyestes\"). Thyestes appears in Ford Ainsworth's one-act play, \"Persephone\".\n\n"}
{"id": "370701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=370701", "title": "Tie-in", "text": "Tie-in\n\nA tie-in work is a work of fiction or other product based on a media property such as a film, video game, television series, board game, web site, role-playing game or literary property. Tie-ins are authorized by the owners of the original property, and are a form of cross-promotion used primarily to generate additional income from that property and to promote its visibility.\n\nCommon tie-in products include literary works, which may be novelizations of a media property, original novels or story collections inspired by the property, or republished previously existing books, such as the novels on which a media property was based, with artwork or photographs from the property. According to publishing industry estimates, about one or two percent of the audience of a film will buy its novelization, making these relatively inexpensively produced works a commercially attractive proposition in the case of blockbuster film franchises. Although increasingly also a domain of previously established novelists, tie-in writing has the disadvantages, from the writers' point of view, of modest pay, tight deadlines and no ownership in the intellectual property created.\n\nTie-in products may also have a documentary or supplemental character, such or \"making-of\" books documenting the creation of a media property. Tie-in products also include other types of works based on the media property, such as soundtrack recordings, video games or merchandise including toys and clothing.\n\nA novelization is a derivative novel that adapts the story of a work created for another medium, such as a film, TV series, comic strip or video game. Film novelizations were particularly popular before the advent of home video, but continue to find commercial success as part of marketing campaigns for major films. They are often written by accomplished writers based on an early draft of the film's script and on a tight deadline.\n\nTie-in novels are often newly published editions of a novel on which a film was based, sometimes renamed to match the film's title and using promotional art created for the film. For example, when Roderick Thorp's 1979 novel \"Nothing Lasts Forever\" was adapted into the 1988 film \"Die Hard\", the novel was republished as a paperback tie-in under the \"Die Hard\" title with the film's poster on the cover.\n\nIf a film is based on a story shorter than a novel — such as a short story, novelette, or novella — a tie-in book may be published featuring the adapted story as well as other stories from the same author. For example, when Stephen King's novella \"Apt Pupil\" was adapted to film, the book originally featuring the story — \"Different Seasons\" — was republished as \"Apt Pupil: A Novella in Different Seasons\". Similarly, tie-in novels were published to promote the films \"Minority Report\" and \"Paycheck\", featuring the original \"Minority Report\" and \"Paycheck\" short stories, both written by Philip K. Dick.\n\nTie-in novels may also continue the story told in the original property, such as the many novels published as part of the \"Star Wars\" expanded universe set before or after the events of the original \"Star Wars\" film trilogy. In 2015, the \"New York Times\" noted the flourishing market for TV series tie-in novels, coinciding with the increasing cultural significance of quality television series. The increasing number of previously established novelists taking on tie-in works has also been credited with these works gaining a \"patina of respectability\" after having previously been disregarded in literary circles as derivative and mere merchandise.\n\nSome video games are tie-in licences for films, television shows or books.\n\nVideo game movie tie-ins are expensive for a game developer to license, and the game designers have to work within constraints imposed by the film studio, under pressure to finish the game in time for the film's release. The aim for the publishers is to increase hype and revenue as the two industries effectively market one another's releases.\n\nMovie license video games have a reputation for being poor quality. For example, \"Amiga Power\" awarding Psygnosis's three movie licenses (\"Dracula\", \"Cliffhanger\" and \"Last Action Hero\", all reviewed in June 1994) 36% \"in total\"; that magazine being cynical towards licensed games in general, with \"The Blues Brothers\" being one of few exceptions. One of the first movie tie-in games, Atari's \"E.T. the Extra-Terrestrial\" (1982) was deemed so bad, it was cited as one cause of the video game industry crash. Such poor quality is often due to game developers forced to rush the product in order to meet the movie's release date, or due to issues with adapting the original work's plot into an interactive form, such as in the case of the games based on the last two films of the \"Harry Potter\" film series, where one reviewer criticised some of the game's missions and side-quests as being unrelated to the film's storyline.\n\nVideo tie-in licences for novels tend to be adventure games. \"The Hobbit (1982)\" and \"The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy\" are text adventures, whilst \"I Have No Mouth, and I Must Scream\" (1995) is a point-and-click adventure and \"Neuromancer\" (1988) is a graphic adventure. Action games based on novels are less common (\"William Shatner's TekWar\" (1995), a first-person shooter). Novel tie-ins were published less frequently after the 1990s, with developers only taking risks with stories that had already been licensed for movies.\n\nTie-ins are considered an important part of the revenue-stream for any major media release, and planning, and licensing for such works often begins at the very earliest stages of creating such a property. Tie-ins provide both an important way of generating additional income from a property, and a way of satisfying the desires of fans who enthusiastically support a popular media property.\n\nThe lineage of tie-in works can be quite convoluted. For example, a novelization might be done of a video game, which was based on a television show, based on a movie, based on a comic book which was the original media property. In several cases, a novelization has been released based on a movie which was in turn adapted from an original novel. In such cases, it is not uncommon to see the novelization and a movie release of the original novel side-by-side on the same shelf.\n\nThese tie-ins can be considered as forms of \"free advertising\", as they create more exposure for the media property. Tie-ins need not have a direct association with the property. For example, a particular pizza company can offer coupons that are associated with the Teenage Mutant Ninja Turtle movies, but that specific pizza company itself does not necessarily have to appear in the movies. By this association, however, the pizza company is exposed to a bigger audience. If a media property does well, the tie-ins gain that positive exposure as well.\n\nSome early examples of TV tie-in books are \"Leave It to Beaver\" (1960), \"Here's Beaver!\" (1961), and \"Beaver and Wally\" (1961) by Beverly Cleary and \"Star Trek\" (1967) by James Blish.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616263", "title": "Tropaeum Traiani", "text": "Tropaeum Traiani\n\nThe Tropaeum Traiani is a monument in Roman Civitas Tropaensium (site of modern Adamclisi, Romania), built in 109 in then Moesia Inferior, to commemorate Roman Emperor Trajan's victory over the Dacians, in the winter of 101-102, in the Battle of Adamclisi. Before Trajan's construction, an altar existed there, on the walls of which were inscribed the names of the 3,000 legionaries and auxilia (servicemen) who had died \"fighting for the Republic\". (Latin: Tropaeum from Greek: Tropaion, source of English: \"trophy\").\n\nTrajan's monument was inspired by the Augustus mausoleum, and was dedicated to the god Mars Ultor in AD 107/108 .\nOn the monument there were 54 metopes depicting Roman legions fighting against enemies; most of these metopes are preserved in the museum nearby. The monument was supposed to be a warning to the tribes outside this newly conquered province.\n\nBy the 20th century, the monument was reduced to a mound of stone and mortar, with a large number of the original bas-reliefs scattered around. The present edifice is a reconstruction dating from 1977. The nearby museum contains many archaeological objects, including parts of the original Roman monument. Of the original 54 metopes, 48 are in the museum and 1 is in Istanbul.\n\nThe monument was dedicated with a large inscription to Mars Ultor (the avenger). The inscription has been preserved fragmentarily from two sides of the trophy hexagon, and has been reconstructed as follows:\n\nMARTI ULTOR[I]<br>\nIM[P(erator)CAES]AR DIVI<br>\nNERVA[E] F(ILIUS) N[E]RVA<br>\nTRA]IANUS [AUG(USTUS) GERM(ANICUS)]<br>\nDAC]I[CU]S PONT(IFEX) MAX(IMUS)<br>\nTRIB(UNICIA) POTEST(ATE) XIII<br>\nIMP(ERATOR) VI CO(N)S(UL) V P(ater) P(atriae)<br>\n?VICTO EXERC]ITU D[ACORUM]<br>\n?---- ET SARMATA]RUM<br>\n\nThe inscription, which calls Trajan \"Germanicus\" from previous his victories in Germany and \"Dacicus\" for his new conquest of Dacia, can be translated:\n\nTo Mars Ultor, <br>\nCaesar the emperor, son of the divine Nerva, <br>\nNerva Trajan Augustus, \"Germanicus\", <br>\n\"Dacicus\", \"Pontifex Maximus\", <br>\nPlebeian tribune for the 13th time, <br>\n[proclaimed] Emperor [by the army] for the 6th time, <br>\nConsul for the 5th time, Father the Fatherland, <br>\nConquered the Dacian and the Sarmatian armies ...<br>\n\nOn the monument was a frieze comprising 54 metopes. 48 metopes are hosted in the Adamclisi museum nearby, and one metope is hosted by Istanbul Archaeology Museum, the rest having been lost (There is a reference from Giurescu that two of them fell into Danube River during the transport to Bucharest).\n\n\"in honorem et in memoriam fortissimorum virorum qui pugnantes pro republica morte occubuerunt\"\nThe monument was restored based on a hypothetical reconstruction in 1977.\nIn 1837, four Prussian officers, hired by the Ottoman Empire to study the Dobruja strategic situation, performed the first excavations. The team was composed by Heinrich Muhlbach, leading Friedrich Leopold Fischer, Carol Wincke-Olbendorf and Helmuth von Moltke the Elder. They tried to reach the center of the monument by digging an underground tunnel, nothing was found after the digging.\n\nThe monument was also visited by C. W. Wutzer from Bonn University, who recorded a short description of the monument and of some local legends.\n\nThe monument was researched by Grigore Tocilescu, O. Benford and G. Niemann, between 1882–1895, George Murnu in 1909, Vasile Parvan stop the researches in 1911, Paul Nicorescu studied the site between 1935–1945, Gheorghe Stefan and Ioan Barnea in 1945. From 1968 the site was researched under Romanian Academy supervision.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50561861", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50561861", "title": "Upsala-Ekeby", "text": "Upsala-Ekeby\n\nUpsala-Ekeby AB was a porcelain, tile, brick, and glass company founded in 1886 in Uppsala, Sweden. From 1910 to 1945, Upsala-Ekeby produced tile stoves in Ekeby. In 1910, Upsala-Ekeby hired designers for their production of household and art ceramics. Upsala-Ekeby expanded by buying competing companies including Gefle Porcelain AB Group and the AB Karlskrona Porcelain Factory. In 1964, Upsala-Ekeby began a major expansion with the acquisition of the Swedish ceramic company Rörstrand. To expand their tabletop business, Upsala-Ekeby acquired Reijmyre Glassworks, Kosta Boda (glass) and GAB Gense (cutlery).\n\nThe Upsala-Ekeby group of companies was acquired by investment company Proventus in 1980. Proventus sold off all of the companies formerly in the Upsala-Ekeby group between 1982-1984.\n\nUpsala-Ekeby Ltd. was established on 29 January 1886. Uppsala began with production of bricks and tiles. The raw material for production was within the property, and the clay had been found very suitable for ceramic manufacturing. Among the founders of the company were the famous Uppsala families of von Bahr, Ekstrand and Holm, who for decades was to characterize the company's development into a successful industrial company. Brick Production began the same year the company was founded with ceramic tile the following year. After 1910, the company began a fierce competition to make itself a major competitor on the stove tile market . One of its competitors was the Upsala Tile Factory AB. Upsala-Ekeby bought the competing factory in 1916.\n\nIn the 1910s, the company began hiring artists. Among the first was Anna-Lisa Thomson and Sven Erik Skawonius. Stove production declined due to modernization of heat supply by central heating . The last tile stove was manufactured in 1945. Instead, the tiles become Upsala-Ekebys major new product. Brick production was discontinued in the 1930s.\n\nThe manufacture of household and art ceramics over time became successful and Upsala-Ekeby had several skilled designers and potters. All goods produced at Upsala-Ekeby were earthenware clay found near the factory. Upsala-Ekeby marked their wares with \"UE\", or with only the word \"Ekeby\". A competitor in Uppsala with similar production as Upsala-Ekeby (brickyards, tile and ceramic factory) was St. Erik Lervarufabriker . In 1937 Upsala-Ekeby bought St. Erik's ceramics factory. Some ornaments from the factory's production continued to be manufacturing, but with the UE-stamp.\n\nIn 1936, Upsala-Ekeby acquired Gefle Porcelain AB Group and in 1942 the AB Karlskrona Porcelain Factory. When plastic during the postwar period began to form competing materials in some areas for the ceramic industry Upsala-Ekeby in 1947 acquired chemical company AB Synthesis . Synthesis later concentrated on raw material manufacturers for the marine industry.\n\nSeveral major acquisitions were made in 1964 when the porcelain manufacturer Rörstrand became a part of the Upsala-Ekeby group. Expanding the companies tabletop product lines, Upsala-Ekeby acquired Reijmyre Glassworks, Kosta Boda (glass) and GAB Gense (cutlery). Other parts of Upsala-Ekeby was sold at the same time, including the building materials divisions in 1968 to Beijer Building . The extensive farming that was also part of the group including grain farming and calf rearing at lease farms Kvarnbo, Österby, Flogsta and Steningehöjden were liquidated or sold.\n\nUpsala-Ekebys ceramic manufacturing in Uppsala began in the 1960s in response to growing sales. The manufacture of pottery and flower pots at Ekeby ceased in the early 1970s when the newly built facility Steningehöjden Ceramics AB at Fyrislund area was put into operation, although this plant was discontinued after some time. In 1973, Upsala-Ekeby sold both industrial and residential premises at Ekeby with the right for Upsala-Ekeby to lease the premises over ten years. A gradual abandonment began, and on October 25, 1977 the tile mill at Ekeby was shut down. The old factory building is now a business park that houses a number of small businesses and two high schools.\n\nUpscale-Ekeby closed most of their ceramic factories except for Rörstrand. The Upsala-Ekeby group of companies was acquired by investment company Proventus in 1980. Between 1982-1984 the Upsala-Ekeby group was broken apart. Rörstrand was sold in 1984 to the Finnish company Wärtsilä. Kosta Boda and Gense were sold in 1989 to the investment company Incentive, when Kosta Boda merged with Orrefors.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26167249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26167249", "title": "Warren Group – Studio Deluxe", "text": "Warren Group – Studio Deluxe\n\nWarren Group | Studio Deluxe is a graphic design firm located in the Beacon Laundry Building, part of the Helms Bakery Complex, in Culver City, California. The firm was founded by creative director Linda Warren in 1984.\n\nWarren Group | Studio Deluxe has won awards in various design competitions, including the American Center of Design 100 Show, Annual Report 100, and Art Directors Clubs of New York and California. Its work has been mentioned in online and print venues, such as Apple, \"Graphis Inc.\", \"Communication Arts\", \"HOW\" and \"Print Magazine\", and selected for the U.S. Library of Congress Permanent Design Collection. The firm's annual report for Junior Blind of America is included in Designing for the Greater Good: \"The Best in Cause-Related Marketing and Nonprofit Design.\" \n\nWarren Group | Studio Deluxe’s work focuses on print and online formats, and includes corporate identities, branding systems, print campaigns, publications and websites. For its efforts on behalf of clients in the fields of education and healthcare, the firm has been recognized by the Association of American Medical Colleges, Council for Advancement and Support of Education, University and College Designers Association, and the Healthcare Public Relations and Marketing Association.\n\nLinda Warren is a former president of the Art Director’s Club of Los Angeles and a member of the AIGA, the nation’s largest design organization. She is a graduate of Occidental College, Los Angeles, and attended the Ecole de Cuisine, Ritz Escoffier, Paris. She is also an adjunct professor in the graphic design department of Santa Monica College, Los Angeles.\n\nWarren Group | Studio Deluxe’s clients include The Aquarium of the Pacific, Aramark, The California Avocado Commission, The Capital Group Companies, Carnegie Mellon University Press, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, The Coffee Bean & Tea Leaf, The Doheny Eye Institute, Keck Graduate Institute of Applied Life Sciences, The Information Sciences Institute at USC, Junior Blind of America, Loyola High School, Manet Community Health Center, Marymount College, St. Paul the Apostle Catholic Community, Occidental College, Outer Cape Health Services, The Saban Research Institute, The University of Southern California, and The Walt Disney Company.\n\nIn an interview on Apple.com, firm leader Warren said, \"On a creative level, everything we do here depends on collaboration. Among ourselves, the photographers and illustrators and writers we work with and with our clients. The better we collaborate, the better our final product is.\" \n\nAlong the same theme, when asked by \"Designer Magazine\", \"What’s the key to your success?\" she answered: \"Teamwork. You have to like and respect the people you’re working with, enjoy the process and truly believe that each person is part of the inspiration of a project.\" \n\nWarren Group | Studio Deluxe is home to LindySue's, an online store of handcrafted homeware it calls “Laundry Chic” along with other gifts. The site has been featured in DailyCandy.com, Bust Magazine, Lucky Magazine and NY Times’ KEY Magazine.\n\n\n"}
