{"id": "581086", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=581086", "title": "Arete", "text": "Arete\n\nArete (Greek: ἀρετή), in its basic sense, means \"excellence of any kind\". The term may also mean \"moral virtue\". In its earliest appearance in Greek, this notion of excellence was ultimately bound up with the notion of the fulfillment of purpose or function: the act of living up to one's full potential.\n\nThe term from Homeric times onwards is not gender specific. Homer applies the term of both the Greek and Trojan heroes as well as major female figures, such as Penelope, the wife of the Greek hero Odysseus. In the Homeric poems, Arete is frequently associated with bravery, but more often with effectiveness. The person of Arete is of the highest effectiveness; they use all their faculties—strength, bravery, and wit—to achieve real results. In the Homeric world, then, Arete involves all of the abilities and potentialities available to humans.\n\nIn some contexts, Arete is explicitly linked with human knowledge, where the expressions \"virtue is knowledge\" and \"Arete is knowledge\" are used interchangeably. The highest human potential is knowledge and all other human abilities are derived from this central capacity. If Arete is knowledge and study, the highest human knowledge is knowledge about knowledge itself; in this light, the theoretical study of human knowledge, which Aristotle called \"contemplation\", is the highest human ability and happiness.\n\nThe Ancient Greeks applied the term to anything: for example, the excellence of a chimney, the excellence of a bull for breeding, and the excellence of a man. The meaning of the word changes depending on what it describes since everything has its own peculiar excellence; the \"arete\" of a man is different from the \"arete\" of a horse. This way of thinking comes first from Plato, where it can be seen in the Allegory of the Cave. In particular, the aristocratic class was presumed, essentially by definition, to be exemplary of \"arete\": \"The root of the word is the same as \"aristos\", the word which shows superlative ability and superiority, and \"aristos\" was constantly used in the plural to denote the nobility.\"\n\nBy the 5th and 4th centuries BC, \"arete\" as applied to men had developed to include quieter virtues, such as \"dikaiosyne\" (justice) and \"sophrosyne\" (self-restraint). Plato attempted to produce a moral philosophy that incorporated this new usage, but it was in the work of Aristotle that the doctrine of \"arete\" found its fullest flowering. Aristotle's \"Doctrine of the Mean\" is a paradigm example of his thinking.\n\n\"Arete\" has also been used by Plato when talking about athletic training and also the education of young boys. Stephen G. Miller delves into this usage in his book \"Ancient Greek Athletics\". Aristotle is quoted as deliberating between education towards \"arete\" \"...or those that are theoretical\". Educating towards \"arete\" in this sense means that the boy would be educated towards things that are useful in life. However, even Plato himself says that \"arete\" is not something that can be agreed upon. He says, \"Nor is there even an agreement about what constitutes \"arete\", something that leads logically to a disagreement about the appropriate training for \"arete\".\" To say that \"arete\" has a common definition of excellence or fulfillment may be an overstatement simply because it was very difficult to pinpoint \"arete\", much less the proper ways to go about obtaining it.\n\nIt was commonly believed that the mind, body, and soul each had to be developed and prepared for a man to live a life of arete. This led to the thought that athletics had to be present in order to obtain arete. They did not need to consume one's life, merely exercise the body into the right condition for arete, just like the mind and soul would be exercised by other means.\n\nIn Homer's \"Iliad\" and \"Odyssey\", \"arete\" is used mainly to describe heroes and nobles and their mobile dexterity, with special reference to strength and courage, but it is not limited to this. Penelope's \"arete\", for example, relates to co-operation, for which she is praised by Agamemnon. The excellence of the gods generally included their power, but, in the \"Odyssey\" (13.42), the gods can grant excellence to a life, which is contextually understood to mean prosperity. Arete was also the name of King Alcinous's wife.\n\nAccording to Bernard Knox's notes found in the Robert Fagles translation of \"The Odyssey\", \"arete\" is also associated with the Greek word for \"pray\", \"araomai\".\n\nIn regards to the Iliad the way Homer describes Achilles is an example of Arete (187). Arete is associated with the goodness and prowess of a warrior (187). Debra Hawhee points out that the norms and practices of Athenian virtuosity “operate within the politics of reputation, whose normative poles are honor and shame” (187). This means Arete functions as an external phenomenon depending on outside reception and acknowledgement for its instantiation (188). Dying in battle or securing a victory in the Olympic Games were considered \"agathos\" (good) and, hence, deserving of \"timê\" (honor). So, not only is Achilles a brave and brilliant warrior but also, from the outset, he is destined to die in battle at Troy with the utmost glory—a guarantor of Arete.\n\nArete was occasionally personified as a goddess, the sister of Homonoia (not to be confused with Harmonia), and the daughter of the goddess of justice, Praxidike.\n\nArete and Homonoia were known jointly as the \"Praxidikai\" (Exacters of Justice). As with many minor Greek deities, there is little or no real mythical background to Arete, who is used at most as a personification of virtue.\n\nThe only story involving Arete was originally told in the 5th century BC by the sophist Prodicus, and concerns the early life of the hero Heracles. At a crossroads, Arete appeared to Heracles as a young maiden, and offered him glory and a life of struggle against evil; her counterpart Kakia (κακία, \"badness\"), offered him wealth and pleasure. Heracles chose to follow the path of Arete.\n\nThis story was later used by Christian writers, such as Methodius of Olympus, Justin Martyr, Clement of Alexandria, and Basil of Caesarea. Justin and Basil portray Arete as a squalidly dressed and unattractive figure, but Methodius portrays her positively in \"Banquet of the Ten Virgins\".\n\nArete is a significant part of the paideia of ancient Greeks: the training of the boy to manhood. This training in arete included physical training, for which the Greeks developed the gymnasion; mental training, which included oratory, rhetoric, and basic sciences; and spiritual training, which included music and what is called virtue.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12728577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12728577", "title": "Behavioral momentum", "text": "Behavioral momentum\n\nBehavioral momentum is a theory in quantitative analysis of behavior and is a behavioral metaphor based on physical momentum. It describes the general relation between resistance to change (persistence of behavior) and the rate of reinforcement obtained in a given situation.\n\nB.F. Skinner (1938) proposed that all behavior is based on a fundamental unit of behavior called the discriminated operant. The discriminated operant, also known as the three-term contingency, has three components: an antecedent discriminative stimulus, a response, and a reinforcing or punishing consequence. The organism responds in the presence of the stimulus because past responses in the presence of that stimulus have produced reinforcement. \n\nAccording to behavioral momentum theory, there are two separable factors that independently govern the rate with which a discriminated operant occurs and the persistence of that response in the face of disruptions such as punishment, extinction, or the differential reinforcement of alternative behaviors. (see Nevin & Grace, 2000, for a review). First, the positive contingency between the response and a reinforcing consequence controls response rates (i.e., a response–reinforcer relation) by shaping a particular pattern of responding. This is governed by the relative law of effect (i.e., the matching law; Herrnstein, 1970). Secondly, the Pavlovian relation between surrounding, or context, stimuli and the rate or magnitude (but not both) of reinforcement obtained in the context (i.e., a stimulus–reinforcer relation) governs the resistance of the behavior to operations such as extinction. Resistance to change is assessed by measuring responding during operations such as extinction or satiation that tend to disrupt the behavior and comparing these measurements to stable, pre-disruption response rates. \n\nResistance to disruption has been considered a better measure of response strength than a simple measure of response rate.(Nevin, 1974). This is because variations in reinforcement contingencies such as differential-reinforcement-of-high- or low-response-rate schedules can yield highly variable response rates even though overall reinforcement rates are equal. Thus it is questionable whether these differences in response rates indicate differences in the underlying strength of a response (see Morse, 1966, for a discussion).\n\nAccording to behavioral momentum theory, the relation between response rate and resistance to change is analogous to the relation between velocity and mass of a moving object, according to Newton's second law of motion (Nevin, Mandell & Atak, 1983). Newton's second law states that the change in velocity of an object when a force is applied is directly related to that force and inversely related to the object's mass. Similarly, behavioral momentum theory states that the change in response rate under conditions of disruption (\"Bx\") relative to baseline response rate (\"Bo\") is directly related to the force or magnitude of disruption (\"f\") and inversely related to the rate of reinforcement in a stimulus context (\"r\"):\n\nThe free parameter \"b\" indicates the sensitivity of resistance to change to the rate of reinforcement in the stimulus context (i.e., the stimulus–reinforcer relation). Resistance to disruption typically is assessed when two distinctive discriminative stimulus contexts alternate and signal different schedules of reinforcement (i.e., a multiple schedule). Equation 1 can be rewritten to account for resistance to change across two stimulus contexts (Nevin, 1992; Nevin, Grace, & McLean, 2001) when a disrupter is uniformly applied across contexts (i.e., \"f\" = \"f\"):\n\nThe subscripts indicate the different stimulus contexts. Thus, Equation 2 states that relative resistance to change is a power function of the relative rate of reinforcement across stimulus contexts, with the \"a\" parameter indicating sensitivity to relative reinforcement rate. Consistent with behavioral momentum theory, resistance to disruption often has been found to be greater in stimulus contexts that signal higher rates or magnitudes of reinforcement (see Nevin, 1992, for a review). Studies that add response-independent (i.e., free) reinforcement to one stimulus context strongly support the theory that changes in response strength are determined by stimulus–reinforcer relations and are independent of response–reinforcer relations. For instance, Nevin, Tota, Torquato, and Shull (1990) had pigeons pecking lighted disks on separate variable-interval 60-s schedules of intermittent food reinforcement across two components of a multiple schedule. Additional free reinforcers were presented every 15 or 30 s on average when the disk was red, but not when the disk was green. Thus, the response–reinforcer relation was degraded when the disk was red because each reinforcer was not immediately preceded by a response. Consistent with the matching law, response rates were lower in the red context than in the green context. However, the stimulus–reinforcer relation was enhanced in the red context because the overall rate of food presentation was greater. Consistent with behavioral momentum theory, resistance to presession feeding (satiation) and discontinuing reinforcement in both contexts (extinction) was greater in the red context. Similar results have been found when reinforcers are added to a context by reinforcing an alternative response.\n\nThe findings of Nevin et al. (1990) have been extended across a number of procedures and species including goldfish (Igaki & Sakagami, 2004), rats (Harper, 1999a, 1999b; Shull, Gaynor & Grimes, 2001), pigeons (Podlesnik & Shahan, 2008), and humans (Ahearn, Clark, Gardenier, Chung & Dube, 2003; Cohen, 1996; Mace et al., 1990). The behavioral momentum framework also has been used to account for the partial-reinforcement extinction effect (Nevin & Grace, 1999), to assess the persistence of drug-maintained behavior (Jimenez-Gomez & Shahan, 2007; Shahan & Burke, 2004), to increase task compliance (e.g., Belfiore, Lee, Scheeler & Klein, 2002), and to understand the effects of social policies on global problems (Nevin, 2005).\n\nAlthough behavioral momentum theory is a powerful framework for understanding how a context of reinforcement can affect the persistence of discriminated operant behavior, there are a number of findings that are inconsistent with the theory (see Nevin & Grace, 2000, and accompanying commentary). For instance, with equal reinforcement rates across stimulus contexts, resistance to change has been shown to be affected by manipulations to response–reinforcer relations, including schedules that produce different baseline response rates (e.g., Lattal, 1989; Nevin, Grace, Holland & McLean), delays to reinforcement (e.g., Bell, 1999; Grace, Schwendimann & Nevin, 1998; Podlesnik, Jimenez-Gomez, Ward & Shahan, 2006; Podlesnik & Shahan, 2008), and by providing brief stimuli that accompany reinforcement (Reed & Doughty, 2005). Also, it is unclear what factors affect relative resistance to change of responding maintained by conditioned reinforcement (Shahan & Podlesnik, 2005) or two concurrently available responses when different rates of reinforcement are arranged within the same context for those responses (e.g., Bell & Williams, 2002).\n\nAs resistance to disruption across stimulus contexts is analogous to the inertial mass of a moving object, behavioral momentum theory also suggests that preference in concurrent-chains procedures for one stimulus context over another is analogous to the gravitational attraction of two bodies (see Nevin & Grace, 2000). In concurrent-chains procedures, responding on the concurrently available initial links provides access to one of two mutually exclusive stimulus contexts called terminal links. As with multiple schedules, independent schedules of reinforcement can function in each terminal-link context. The relative allocation of responding across the two initial links indicates the extent to which an organism prefers one terminal-link context over the other. Moreover, behavioral momentum theory posits that preference provides a measure of the relative conditioned-reinforcing value of the two terminal-link contexts, as described by the contextual-choice model (Grace, 1994).\n\nGrace and Nevin (1997) assessed both relative resistance to change in a multiple schedule and preference in a concurrent-chains procedure with pigeons pecking lighted disks for food reinforcement. When the relative rate of reinforcement was manipulated identically and simultaneously across stimulus contexts in the multiple schedule and concurrent-chains procedure, both relative resistance to change and preference was greater with richer contexts of reinforcement. When all the extant resistance to change and preference data were summarized by Grace, Bedell, and Nevin (2002), they found that those measures were related by a structural relation slope of 0.29. Therefore, relative resistance to change and preference both have been conceptualized as expressions of an underlying construct termed response strength, conditioned reinforcement value, or more generally, behavioral mass of discriminated operant behavior (see Nevin & Grace, 2000).\n\n"}
{"id": "920487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=920487", "title": "Blood brother", "text": "Blood brother\n\nBlood brother can refer to one of two things: a male related by birth, or two or more men not related by birth who have sworn loyalty to each other. This is in modern times usually done in a ceremony, known as a blood oath, where each person makes a small cut, usually on a finger, hand or the forearm, and then the two cuts are pressed together and bound, the idea being that each person's blood now flows in the other participant's veins. The act may carry a risk due to blood-borne diseases. In modern times, some gangs have also been rumored to make blood pacts. The process usually provides a participant with a heightened symbolic sense of attachment with another participant.\n\nThe Norsemen entering into the pact of foster brotherhood () involved a rite whereby they let their blood flow while they ducked underneath an arch formed by a strip of turf propped up by a spear or spears. An example is described in \"Gísla saga\". In \"Fóstbræðra saga\", the bond of Thorgeir Havarsson (Þorgeir Hávarsson) and Thormod Bersason (Þormóð Bersason) is sealed by such ritual as well, the ritual being called a \"leikr\".\n\n\"Örvar-Oddr's saga\" contains another notable account of blood brotherhood. Örvar-Oddr, after fighting the renowned Swedish warrior Hjalmar to a draw, entered into foster-brotherhood with him \n\nIn the mythology of northern Europe, Gunther and Högni became the blood brothers of Sigurd when he married their sister Gudrun; in Wagner's \"Ring Cycle\", the same occurs between Gunther and Wagner's version of Sigurd, Siegfried, which is marked by the \"Blood Brotherhood Leitmotiv\". Additionally, it is briefly stated in Lokasenna that Odin and Loki are blood brothers.\n\nAmong the Scythians, the covenantors would allow their blood to drip into a cup; the blood was subsequently mixed with wine and drunk by both participants. Every man was limited to having at most three blood brotherhoods at any time, lest his loyalties be distrusted; as a consequence, blood brotherhood was highly sought after and often preceded by a lengthy period of affiliation and friendship (Lucian, \"Toxaris\"). \n4th-century BC depictions of two Scythian warriors drinking from a single drinking horn (most notably in a gold appliqué from Kul-Oba) have been associated with the Scythian oath of blood brotherhood.\n\nThe Hungarian hajduks had a similar ceremony, though the wine was often replaced with milk so that the blood would be more visible.\n\nIn Asian cultures, the act and ceremony of becoming blood brothers is generally seen as a tribal relationship, that is, to bring about alliance between tribes. It was practiced for this reason most notably among the Mongols and early Chinese.\n\nIn Romance of the Three Kingdoms\",\" the Chinese classical literature, the three main characters took an oath of blood brother. In Mongolian history, Genghis Khan the Great had an anda, blood brother in Mongolian.\n\nThe blood oath was used in much the same fashion as has already been described in much of \nSub-Saharan Africa. The British colonial administrator Lord Lugard is famous for having become blood brothers with numerous African chiefs as part of his political policy while in Africa. A powerful blood brother of his was the \nKikuyu chieftain Waiyaki Wa Hinga.\n\nThere may be some evidence that Native Americans performed blood oathes to bring about alliances between tribes.\n\nBlood brothers among larger groups were common in ancient Southeastern Europe where, for example, whole companies of soldiers would become one family through the ceremony. It was perhaps most prevalent in the Balkans during the Ottoman era, as it helped the oppressed people to fight the enemy more effectively; blood brotherhoods were common in what is today Albania, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, Croatia, Greece, Montenegro, Serbia, Republic of Macedonia. Christianity also recognized sworn brotherhood in a ceremony (known as , in the Eastern Orthodox churches; known as in the Roman Catholic church). The tradition of intertwining arms and drinking wine is also believed to be a representation of becoming blood brothers.\n\nBlood brotherhood, highly ritualized and subjected to a strong code, was a common practice in the Caucasus, especially among the mountaineers. Some relics of this tradition survive to this day.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6295", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6295", "title": "Chaos theory", "text": "Chaos theory\n\nChaos theory is a branch of mathematics focusing on the behavior of dynamical systems that are highly sensitive to initial conditions. \"Chaos\" is an interdisciplinary theory stating that within the apparent randomness of chaotic complex systems, there are underlying patterns, constant feedback loops, repetition, self-similarity, fractals, self-organization, and reliance on programming at the initial point known as \"sensitive dependence on initial conditions\". The butterfly effect describes how a small change in one state of a deterministic nonlinear system can result in large differences in a later state, e.g. a butterfly flapping its wings in Brazil can cause a hurricane in Texas.\n\nSmall differences in initial conditions, such as those due to rounding errors in numerical computation, yield widely diverging outcomes for such dynamical systems, rendering long-term prediction of their behavior impossible in general. This happens even though these systems are deterministic, meaning that their future behavior is fully determined by their initial conditions, with no random elements involved. In other words, the deterministic nature of these systems does not make them predictable. This behavior is known as deterministic chaos, or simply chaos. The theory was summarized by Edward Lorenz as:\n\nChaotic behavior exists in many natural systems, such as weather and climate. It also occurs spontaneously in some systems with artificial components, such as road traffic. This behavior can be studied through analysis of a chaotic mathematical model, or through analytical techniques such as recurrence plots and Poincaré maps. Chaos theory has applications in several disciplines, including meteorology, anthropology, sociology, physics, environmental science, computer science, engineering, economics, biology, ecology, and philosophy. The theory formed the basis for such fields of study as complex dynamical systems, edge of chaos theory, and self-assembly processes.\n\nChaos theory concerns deterministic systems whose behavior can in principle be predicted. Chaotic systems are predictable for a while and then 'appear' to become random. The amount of time that the behavior of a chaotic system can be effectively predicted depends on three things: How much uncertainty can be tolerated in the forecast, how accurately its current state can be measured, and a time scale depending on the dynamics of the system, called the Lyapunov time. Some examples of Lyapunov times are: chaotic electrical circuits, about 1 millisecond; weather systems, a few days (unproven); the solar system, 50 million years. In chaotic systems, the uncertainty in a forecast increases exponentially with elapsed time. Hence, mathematically, doubling the forecast time more than squares the proportional uncertainty in the forecast. This means, in practice, a meaningful prediction cannot be made over an interval of more than two or three times the Lyapunov time. When meaningful predictions cannot be made, the system appears random.\n\nIn common usage, \"chaos\" means \"a state of disorder\". However, in chaos theory, the term is defined more precisely. Although no universally accepted mathematical definition of chaos exists, a commonly used definition originally formulated by Robert L. Devaney says that, to classify a dynamical system as chaotic, it must have these properties:\n\n\nIn some cases, the last two properties in the above have been shown to actually imply sensitivity to initial conditions. In these cases, while it is often the most practically significant property, \"sensitivity to initial conditions\" need not be stated in the definition.\n\nIf attention is restricted to intervals, the second property implies the other two. An alternative, and in general weaker, definition of chaos uses only the first two properties in the above list.\n\nIn continuous time dynamical systems, chaos is the phenomenon of the spontaneous breakdown of topological supersymmetry which is an intrinsic property of evolution operators of all stochastic and deterministic (partial) differential equations. This picture of dynamical chaos works not only for deterministic models but also for models with external noise, which is an important generalization from the physical point of view because in reality all dynamical systems experience influence from their stochastic environments. Within this picture, the long-range dynamical behavior associated with chaotic dynamics, e.g., the butterfly effect, is a consequence of the Goldstone's theorem in the application to the spontaneous topological supersymmetry breaking.\n\nSensitivity to initial conditions means that each point in a chaotic system is arbitrarily closely approximated by other points with significantly different future paths, or trajectories. Thus, an arbitrarily small change, or perturbation, of the current trajectory may lead to significantly different future behavior.\n\nSensitivity to initial conditions is popularly known as the \"butterfly effect\", so-called because of the title of a paper given by Edward Lorenz in 1972 to the American Association for the Advancement of Science in Washington, D.C., entitled \"Predictability: Does the Flap of a Butterfly's Wings in Brazil set off a Tornado in Texas?\". The flapping wing represents a small change in the initial condition of the system, which causes a chain of events that prevents the predictability of large-scale phenomena. Had the butterfly not flapped its wings, the trajectory of the overall system would have been vastly different.\n\nA consequence of sensitivity to initial conditions is that if we start with a limited amount of information about the system (as is usually the case in practice), then beyond a certain time the system is no longer predictable. This is most prevalent in the case of weather, which is generally predictable only about a week ahead. Of course, this does not mean that we cannot say anything about events far in the future; some restrictions on the system are present. With weather, we know that the temperature will not naturally reach 100 °C or fall to −130 °C on earth (during the current geologic era), but we can't say exactly what day will have the hottest temperature of the year.\n\nIn more mathematical terms, the Lyapunov exponent measures the sensitivity to initial conditions. Given two starting trajectories in the phase space that are infinitesimally close, with initial separation formula_1, the two trajectories end up diverging at a rate given by\n\nwhere t is the time and λ is the Lyapunov exponent. The rate of separation depends on the orientation of the initial separation vector, so a whole spectrum of Lyapunov exponents exist. The number of Lyapunov exponents is equal to the number of dimensions of the phase space, though it is common to just refer to the largest one. For example, the maximal Lyapunov exponent (MLE) is most often used because it determines the overall predictability of the system. A positive MLE is usually taken as an indication that the system is chaotic.\n\nAlso, other properties relate to sensitivity of initial conditions, such as measure-theoretical mixing (as discussed in ergodic theory) and properties of a K-system.\n\nTopological mixing (or topological transitivity) means that the system evolves over time so that any given region or open set of its phase space eventually overlaps with any other given region. This mathematical concept of \"mixing\" corresponds to the standard intuition, and the mixing of colored dyes or fluids is an example of a chaotic system.\n\nTopological mixing is often omitted from popular accounts of chaos, which equate chaos with only sensitivity to initial conditions. However, sensitive dependence on initial conditions alone does not give chaos. For example, consider the simple dynamical system produced by repeatedly doubling an initial value. This system has sensitive dependence on initial conditions everywhere, since any pair of nearby points eventually becomes widely separated. However, this example has no topological mixing, and therefore has no chaos. Indeed, it has extremely simple behavior: all points except 0 tend to positive or negative infinity.\n\nFor a chaotic system to have dense periodic orbits means that every point in the space is approached arbitrarily closely by periodic orbits. The one-dimensional logistic map defined by \"x\" → 4 \"x\" (1 – \"x\") is one of the simplest systems with density of periodic orbits. For example, formula_3 → formula_4 → formula_3 (or approximately 0.3454915 → 0.9045085 → 0.3454915) is an (unstable) orbit of period 2, and similar orbits exist for periods 4, 8, 16, etc. (indeed, for all the periods specified by Sharkovskii's theorem).\n\nSharkovskii's theorem is the basis of the Li and Yorke (1975) proof that any continuous one-dimensional system that exhibits a regular cycle of period three will also display regular cycles of every other length, as well as completely chaotic orbits.\n\nSome dynamical systems, like the one-dimensional logistic map defined by \"x\" → 4 \"x\" (1 – \"x\"), are chaotic everywhere, but in many cases chaotic behavior is found only in a subset of phase space. The cases of most interest arise when the chaotic behavior takes place on an attractor, since then a large set of initial conditions leads to orbits that converge to this chaotic region.\n\nAn easy way to visualize a chaotic attractor is to start with a point in the basin of attraction of the attractor, and then simply plot its subsequent orbit. Because of the topological transitivity condition, this is likely to produce a picture of the entire final attractor, and indeed both orbits shown in the figure on the right give a picture of the general shape of the Lorenz attractor. This attractor results from a simple three-dimensional model of the Lorenz weather system. The Lorenz attractor is perhaps one of the best-known chaotic system diagrams, probably because it was not only one of the first, but it is also one of the most complex and as such gives rise to a very interesting pattern that, with a little imagination, looks like the wings of a butterfly.\n\nUnlike fixed-point attractors and limit cycles, the attractors that arise from chaotic systems, known as strange attractors, have great detail and complexity. Strange attractors occur in both continuous dynamical systems (such as the Lorenz system) and in some discrete systems (such as the Hénon map). Other discrete dynamical systems have a repelling structure called a Julia set, which forms at the boundary between basins of attraction of fixed points. Julia sets can be thought of as strange repellers. Both strange attractors and Julia sets typically have a fractal structure, and the fractal dimension can be calculated for them.\n\nDiscrete chaotic systems, such as the logistic map, can exhibit strange attractors whatever their dimensionality. In contrast, for continuous dynamical systems, the Poincaré–Bendixson theorem shows that a strange attractor can only arise in three or more dimensions. Finite-dimensional linear systems are never chaotic; for a dynamical system to display chaotic behavior, it must be either nonlinear or infinite-dimensional.\n\nThe Poincaré–Bendixson theorem states that a two-dimensional differential equation has very regular behavior. The Lorenz attractor discussed below is generated by a system of three differential equations such as:\nwhere formula_7, formula_8, and formula_9 make up the system state, formula_10 is time, and formula_11, formula_12, formula_13 are the system parameters. Five of the terms on the right hand side are linear, while two are quadratic; a total of seven terms. Another well-known chaotic attractor is generated by the Rössler equations, which have only one nonlinear term out of seven. Sprott found a three-dimensional system with just five terms, that had only one nonlinear term, which exhibits chaos for certain parameter values. Zhang and Heidel showed that, at least for dissipative and conservative quadratic systems, three-dimensional quadratic systems with only three or four terms on the right-hand side cannot exhibit chaotic behavior. The reason is, simply put, that solutions to such systems are asymptotic to a two-dimensional surface and therefore solutions are well behaved.\n\nWhile the Poincaré–Bendixson theorem shows that a continuous dynamical system on the Euclidean plane cannot be chaotic, two-dimensional continuous systems with non-Euclidean geometry can exhibit chaotic behavior. Perhaps surprisingly, chaos may occur also in linear systems, provided they are infinite dimensional. A theory of linear chaos is being developed in a branch of mathematical analysis known as functional analysis.\n\nIn physics, jerk is the third derivative of position, with respect to time. As such, differential equations of the form\nare sometimes called \"Jerk equations\". It has been shown that a jerk equation, which is equivalent to a system of three first order, ordinary, non-linear differential equations, is in a certain sense the minimal setting for solutions showing chaotic behaviour. This motivates mathematical interest in jerk systems. Systems involving a fourth or higher derivative are called accordingly hyperjerk systems.\n\nA jerk system's behavior is described by a jerk equation, and for certain jerk equations, simple electronic circuits can model solutions. These circuits are known as jerk circuits.\n\nOne of the most interesting properties of jerk circuits is the possibility of chaotic behavior. In fact, certain well-known chaotic systems, such as the Lorenz attractor and the Rössler map, are conventionally described as a system of three first-order differential equations that can combine into a single (although rather complicated) jerk equation. Nonlinear jerk systems are in a sense minimally complex systems to show chaotic behaviour; there is no chaotic system involving only two first-order, ordinary differential equations (the system resulting in an equation of second order only).\n\nAn example of a jerk equation with nonlinearity in the magnitude of formula_7 is:\n\nHere, \"A\" is an adjustable parameter. This equation has a chaotic solution for \"A\"=3/5 and can be implemented with the following jerk circuit; the required nonlinearity is brought about by the two diodes:\n\nIn the above circuit, all resistors are of equal value, except formula_17, and all capacitors are of equal size. The dominant frequency is formula_18. The output of op amp 0 will correspond to the x variable, the output of 1 corresponds to the first derivative of x and the output of 2 corresponds to the second derivative.\n\nUnder the right conditions, chaos spontaneously evolves into a lockstep pattern. In the Kuramoto model, four conditions suffice to produce synchronization in a chaotic system.\nExamples include the coupled oscillation of Christiaan Huygens' pendulums, fireflies, neurons, the London Millennium Bridge resonance, and large arrays of Josephson junctions.\n\nAn early proponent of chaos theory was Henri Poincaré. In the 1880s, while studying the three-body problem, he found that there can be orbits that are nonperiodic, and yet not forever increasing nor approaching a fixed point. In 1898, Jacques Hadamard published an influential study of the chaotic motion of a free particle gliding frictionlessly on a surface of constant negative curvature, called \"Hadamard's billiards\". Hadamard was able to show that all trajectories are unstable, in that all particle trajectories diverge exponentially from one another, with a positive Lyapunov exponent.\n\nChaos theory began in the field of ergodic theory. Later studies, also on the topic of nonlinear differential equations, were carried out by George David Birkhoff, Andrey Nikolaevich Kolmogorov, Mary Lucy Cartwright and John Edensor Littlewood, and Stephen Smale. Except for Smale, these studies were all directly inspired by physics: the three-body problem in the case of Birkhoff, turbulence and astronomical problems in the case of Kolmogorov, and radio engineering in the case of Cartwright and Littlewood. Although chaotic planetary motion had not been observed, experimentalists had encountered turbulence in fluid motion and nonperiodic oscillation in radio circuits without the benefit of a theory to explain what they were seeing.\n\nDespite initial insights in the first half of the twentieth century, chaos theory became formalized as such only after mid-century, when it first became evident to some scientists that linear theory, the prevailing system theory at that time, simply could not explain the observed behavior of certain experiments like that of the logistic map. What had been attributed to measure imprecision and simple \"noise\" was considered by chaos theorists as a full component of the studied systems.\n\nThe main catalyst for the development of chaos theory was the electronic computer. Much of the mathematics of chaos theory involves the repeated iteration of simple mathematical formulas, which would be impractical to do by hand. Electronic computers made these repeated calculations practical, while figures and images made it possible to visualize these systems. As a graduate student in Chihiro Hayashi's laboratory at Kyoto University, Yoshisuke Ueda was experimenting with analog computers and noticed, on November 27, 1961, what he called \"randomly transitional phenomena\". Yet his advisor did not agree with his conclusions at the time, and did not allow him to report his findings until 1970.\n\nEdward Lorenz was an early pioneer of the theory. His interest in chaos came about accidentally through his work on weather prediction in 1961. Lorenz was using a simple digital computer, a Royal McBee LGP-30, to run his weather simulation. He wanted to see a sequence of data again, and to save time he started the simulation in the middle of its course. He did this by entering a printout of the data that corresponded to conditions in the middle of the original simulation. To his surprise, the weather the machine began to predict was completely different from the previous calculation. Lorenz tracked this down to the computer printout. The computer worked with 6-digit precision, but the printout rounded variables off to a 3-digit number, so a value like 0.506127 printed as 0.506. This difference is tiny, and the consensus at the time would have been that it should have no practical effect. However, Lorenz discovered that small changes in initial conditions produced large changes in long-term outcome. Lorenz's discovery, which gave its name to Lorenz attractors, showed that even detailed atmospheric modelling cannot, in general, make precise long-term weather predictions.\n\nIn 1963, Benoit Mandelbrot found recurring patterns at every scale in data on cotton prices. Beforehand he had studied information theory and concluded noise was patterned like a Cantor set: on any scale the proportion of noise-containing periods to error-free periods was a constant – thus errors were inevitable and must be planned for by incorporating redundancy. Mandelbrot described both the \"Noah effect\" (in which sudden discontinuous changes can occur) and the \"Joseph effect\" (in which persistence of a value can occur for a while, yet suddenly change afterwards). This challenged the idea that changes in price were normally distributed. In 1967, he published \"How long is the coast of Britain? Statistical self-similarity and fractional dimension\", showing that a coastline's length varies with the scale of the measuring instrument, resembles itself at all scales, and is infinite in length for an infinitesimally small measuring device. Arguing that a ball of twine appears as a point when viewed from far away (0-dimensional), a ball when viewed from fairly near (3-dimensional), or a curved strand (1-dimensional), he argued that the dimensions of an object are relative to the observer and may be fractional. An object whose irregularity is constant over different scales (\"self-similarity\") is a fractal (examples include the Menger sponge, the Sierpiński gasket, and the Koch curve or \"snowflake\", which is infinitely long yet encloses a finite space and has a fractal dimension of circa 1.2619). In 1982, Mandelbrot published \"The Fractal Geometry of Nature\", which became a classic of chaos theory. Biological systems such as the branching of the circulatory and bronchial systems proved to fit a fractal model.\n\nIn December 1977, the New York Academy of Sciences organized the first symposium on chaos, attended by David Ruelle, Robert May, James A. Yorke (coiner of the term \"chaos\" as used in mathematics), Robert Shaw, and the meteorologist Edward Lorenz. The following year, independently Pierre Coullet and Charles Tresser with the article \"Iterations d'endomorphismes et groupe de renormalisation\" and Mitchell Feigenbaum with the article \"Quantitative Universality for a Class of Nonlinear Transformations\" described logistic maps. They notably discovered the universality in chaos, permitting the application of chaos theory to many different phenomena.\n\nIn 1979, Albert J. Libchaber, during a symposium organized in Aspen by Pierre Hohenberg, presented his experimental observation of the bifurcation cascade that leads to chaos and turbulence in Rayleigh–Bénard convection systems. He was awarded the Wolf Prize in Physics in 1986 along with Mitchell J. Feigenbaum for their inspiring achievements.\n\nIn 1986, the New York Academy of Sciences co-organized with the National Institute of Mental Health and the Office of Naval Research the first important conference on chaos in biology and medicine. There, Bernardo Huberman presented a mathematical model of the eye tracking disorder among schizophrenics. This led to a renewal of physiology in the 1980s through the application of chaos theory, for example, in the study of pathological cardiac cycles.\n\nIn 1987, Per Bak, Chao Tang and Kurt Wiesenfeld published a paper in \"Physical Review Letters\" describing for the first time self-organized criticality (SOC), considered one of the mechanisms by which complexity arises in nature.\n\nAlongside largely lab-based approaches such as the Bak–Tang–Wiesenfeld sandpile, many other investigations have focused on large-scale natural or social systems that are known (or suspected) to display scale-invariant behavior. Although these approaches were not always welcomed (at least initially) by specialists in the subjects examined, SOC has nevertheless become established as a strong candidate for explaining a number of natural phenomena, including earthquakes, (which, long before SOC was discovered, were known as a source of scale-invariant behavior such as the Gutenberg–Richter law describing the statistical distribution of earthquake sizes, and the Omori law describing the frequency of aftershocks), solar flares, fluctuations in economic systems such as financial markets (references to SOC are common in econophysics), landscape formation, forest fires, landslides, epidemics, and biological evolution (where SOC has been invoked, for example, as the dynamical mechanism behind the theory of \"punctuated equilibria\" put forward by Niles Eldredge and Stephen Jay Gould). Given the implications of a scale-free distribution of event sizes, some researchers have suggested that another phenomenon that should be considered an example of SOC is the occurrence of wars. These investigations of SOC have included both attempts at modelling (either developing new models or adapting existing ones to the specifics of a given natural system), and extensive data analysis to determine the existence and/or characteristics of natural scaling laws.\n\nIn the same year, James Gleick published \"\", which became a best-seller and introduced the general principles of chaos theory as well as its history to the broad public, though his history under-emphasized important Soviet contributions. Initially the domain of a few, isolated individuals, chaos theory progressively emerged as a transdisciplinary and institutional discipline, mainly under the name of nonlinear systems analysis. Alluding to Thomas Kuhn's concept of a paradigm shift exposed in \"The Structure of Scientific Revolutions\" (1962), many \"chaologists\" (as some described themselves) claimed that this new theory was an example of such a shift, a thesis upheld by Gleick.\n\nThe availability of cheaper, more powerful computers broadens the applicability of chaos theory. Currently, chaos theory remains an active area of research, involving many different disciplines (mathematics, topology, physics, social systems, population modeling, biology, meteorology, astrophysics, information theory, computational neuroscience, etc.).\n\nChaos theory was born from observing weather patterns, but it has become applicable to a variety of other situations. Some areas benefiting from chaos theory today are geology, mathematics, microbiology, biology, computer science, economics, engineering,Applying Chaos Theory to Embedded Applications</ref> finance, algorithmic trading, meteorology, philosophy, anthropology, physics, politics, population dynamics, psychology, and robotics. A few categories are listed below with examples, but this is by no means a comprehensive list as new applications are appearing.\n\nChaos theory has been used for many years in cryptography. In the past few decades, chaos and nonlinear dynamics have been used in the design of hundreds of cryptographic primitives. These algorithms include image encryption algorithms, hash functions, secure pseudo-random number generators, stream ciphers, watermarking and steganography. The majority of these algorithms are based on uni-modal chaotic maps and a big portion of these algorithms use the control parameters and the initial condition of the chaotic maps as their keys. From a wider perspective, without loss of generality, the similarities between the chaotic maps and the cryptographic systems is the main motivation for the design of chaos based cryptographic algorithms. One type of encryption, secret key or symmetric key, relies on diffusion and confusion, which is modeled well by chaos theory. Another type of computing, DNA computing, when paired with chaos theory, offers a way to encrypt images and other information. Many of the DNA-Chaos cryptographic algorithms are proven to be either not secure, or the technique applied is suggested to be not efficient.\n\nRobotics is another area that has recently benefited from chaos theory. Instead of robots acting in a trial-and-error type of refinement to interact with their environment, chaos theory has been used to build a predictive model.\nChaotic dynamics have been exhibited by passive walking biped robots.\n\nFor over a hundred years, biologists have been keeping track of populations of different species with population models. Most models are continuous, but recently scientists have been able to implement chaotic models in certain populations. For example, a study on models of Canadian lynx showed there was chaotic behavior in the population growth. Chaos can also be found in ecological systems, such as hydrology. While a chaotic model for hydrology has its shortcomings, there is still much to learn from looking at the data through the lens of chaos theory. Another biological application is found in cardiotocography. Fetal surveillance is a delicate balance of obtaining accurate information while being as noninvasive as possible. Better models of warning signs of fetal hypoxia can be obtained through chaotic modeling.\n\nIn chemistry, predicting gas solubility is essential to manufacturing polymers, but models using particle swarm optimization (PSO) tend to converge to the wrong points. An improved version of PSO has been created by introducing chaos, which keeps the simulations from getting stuck. In celestial mechanics, especially when observing asteroids, applying chaos theory leads to better predictions about when these objects will approach Earth and other planets. Four of the five moons of Pluto rotate chaotically. In quantum physics and electrical engineering, the study of large arrays of Josephson junctions benefitted greatly from chaos theory. Closer to home, coal mines have always been dangerous places where frequent natural gas leaks cause many deaths. Until recently, there was no reliable way to predict when they would occur. But these gas leaks have chaotic tendencies that, when properly modeled, can be predicted fairly accurately.\n\nChaos theory can be applied outside of the natural sciences, but historically nearly all such studies have suffered from lack of reproducibility; poor external validity; and/or inattention to cross-validation, resulting in poor predictive accuracy (if out-of-sample prediction has even been attempted). Glass and Mandell and Selz have found that no EEG study has as yet indicated the presence of strange attractors or other signs of chaotic behavior.\n\nResearchers have continued to apply chaos theory to psychology. For example, in modeling group behavior in which heterogeneous members may behave as if sharing to different degrees what in Wilfred Bion's theory is a basic assumption, researchers have found that the group dynamic is the result of the individual dynamics of the members: each individual reproduces the group dynamics in a different scale, and the chaotic behavior of the group is reflected in each member.\n\nRedington and Reidbord (1992) attempted to demonstrate that the human heart could display chaotic traits. They monitored the changes in between-heartbeat intervals for a single psychotherapy patient as she moved through periods of varying emotional intensity during a therapy session. Results were admittedly inconclusive. Not only were there ambiguities in the various plots the authors produced to purportedly show evidence of chaotic dynamics (spectral analysis, phase trajectory, and autocorrelation plots), but when they attempted to compute a Lyapunov exponent as more definitive confirmation of chaotic behavior, the authors found they could not reliably do so.\n\nIn their 1995 paper, Metcalf and Allen maintained that they uncovered in animal behavior a pattern of period doubling leading to chaos. The authors examined a well-known response called schedule-induced polydipsia, by which an animal deprived of food for certain lengths of time will drink unusual amounts of water when the food is at last presented. The control parameter (r) operating here was the length of the interval between feedings, once resumed. The authors were careful to test a large number of animals and to include many replications, and they designed their experiment so as to rule out the likelihood that changes in response patterns were caused by different starting places for r.\n\nTime series and first delay plots provide the best support for the claims made, showing a fairly clear march from periodicity to irregularity as the feeding times were increased. The various phase trajectory plots and spectral analyses, on the other hand, do not match up well enough with the other graphs or with the overall theory to lead inexorably to a chaotic diagnosis. For example, the phase trajectories do not show a definite progression towards greater and greater complexity (and away from periodicity); the process seems quite muddied. Also, where Metcalf and Allen saw periods of two and six in their spectral plots, there is room for alternative interpretations. All of this ambiguity necessitate some serpentine, post-hoc explanation to show that results fit a chaotic model.\n\nBy adapting a model of career counseling to include a chaotic interpretation of the relationship between employees and the job market, Aniundson and Bright found that better suggestions can be made to people struggling with career decisions. Modern organizations are increasingly seen as open complex adaptive systems with fundamental natural nonlinear structures, subject to internal and external forces that may contribute chaos. For instance, team building and group development is increasingly being researched as an inherently unpredictable system, as the uncertainty of different individuals meeting for the first time makes the trajectory of the team unknowable.\n\nSome say the chaos metaphor—used in verbal theories—grounded on mathematical models and psychological aspects of human behavior\nprovides helpful insights to describing the complexity of small work groups, that go beyond the metaphor itself.\n\nIt is possible that economic models can also be improved through an application of chaos theory, but predicting the health of an economic system and what factors influence it most is an extremely complex task. Economic and financial systems are fundamentally different from those in the classical natural sciences since the former are inherently stochastic in nature, as they result from the interactions of people, and thus pure deterministic models are unlikely to provide accurate representations of the data. The empirical literature that tests for chaos in economics and finance presents very mixed results, in part due to confusion between specific tests for chaos and more general tests for non-linear relationships.\n\nTraffic forecasting may benefit from applications of chaos theory. Better predictions of when traffic will occur would allow measures to be taken to disperse it before it would have occurred. Combining chaos theory principles with a few other methods has led to a more accurate short-term prediction model (see the plot of the BML traffic model at right).\n\nChaos theory has been applied to environmental water cycle data (aka hydrological data), such as rainfall and streamflow. These studies have yielded controversial results, because the methods for detecting a chaotic signature are often relatively subjective. Early studies tended to \"succeed\" in finding chaos, whereas subsequent studies and meta-analyses called those studies into question and provided explanations for why these datasets are not likely to have low-dimension chaotic dynamics.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8629097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8629097", "title": "Common species", "text": "Common species\n\nCommon species and uncommon species are designations used in ecology to describe the population status of a species. Commonness is closely related to abundance. Abundance refers to the frequency with which a species is found in controlled samples; in contrast, species are defined as common or uncommon based on their overall presence in the environment. A species may be locally abundant without being common.\n\nHowever, \"common\" and \"uncommon\" are also sometimes used to describe levels of abundance, with a common species being less abundant than an abundant species, while an uncommon species is more abundant than a rare species.\n\nCommon species are frequently regarded as being at low risk of extinction simply because they exist in large numbers, and hence their conservation status is often overlooked. While this is broadly logical, there are several cases of once common species being driven to extinction such as the passenger pigeon and the Rocky Mountain locust, which numbered in the billions and trillions respectively before their demise. Moreover, a small proportional decline in a common species results in the loss of a large number of individuals, and the contribution to ecosystem function that those individuals represented. A recent paper argued that because common species shape ecosystems, contribute disproportionately to ecosystem functioning, and can show rapid population declines, conservation should look more closely at how the trade-off between species extinctions and the depletion of populations.\n\n"}
{"id": "8331352", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8331352", "title": "Constructive perception", "text": "Constructive perception\n\nConstructive perception, is the theory of perception in which the perceiver uses sensory information and other sources of information to construct a cognitive understanding of a stimulus. In contrast to this top-down approach, there is the bottom-up approach of direct perception.\n\nAlso known as intelligent perception, constructive perception shows the relationship between intelligence and perception. This comes from the importance of high-order thinking and learning in perception. During perception, hypotheses are formed and tested about percepts that are based on three things: sensory data, knowledge, and high-level cognitive processes. Visual sensations are usually correctly attributed because we unconsciously assimilate information from many sources and then unconsciously make judgments based on this information. The philosophy of Immanuel Kant explains that our perception of the world is reciprocal; it both is affected by and affects our experience of the world.\n\nContext effects are not explained by bottom-up theories of accounting. Irving Biederman performed experiments that demonstrated dramatic context effects. For example, Stephen Palmer carried out an experiment in which the participants were asked to identify objects after they were shown either a relevant or irrelevant context. They might be shown a scene of a baseball game, followed by images of a baseball, car, and a phone. The stimuli that was most relevant to the context, the baseball, was recognized quicker than those that were irrelevant, car and phone.\n\nPerceptual constancy gives evidence that high-level constructive processes occur during perception. As lighting conditions change, the color of objects, such as bananas or cherries, appear to remain constant. Even when there is not enough light to even stimulate cone cells and give the sensation of color, bananas and cherries are still perceived as yellow and red, respectively.\n\nConfigural-superiority effect is another compelling context effect. This effect is demonstrated by the decrease in response time by participants when identifying objects in complex configurations over objects in isolation. For example, four diagonal lines are shown and participants are asked the location of the odd line indicated by its different orientation. In another condition, an \"L\" shaped fixed context is added; this creates three triangles and another object made of three lines. Participants were able to discern the odd three line object from the set of triangles quicker than the single diagonal lines alone.\n\nYou are traveling down a road you never been on before, up ahead you see an octagonal red sign with white letters near an intersection. The sign has a vine growing on it, and all you can read is \"ST_P.\" These letters alone are meaningless, however taken in its context and using knowledge from past experiences you infer that it is a stop sign. This is example of constructive perception because it required intelligence and thought to combine sensory information, a red octagonal sign with \"ST_P\" in white letters at an intersection, and knowledge from past experiences, stop signs are red octagonal signs with \"STOP\" in white letters placed at an intersection, to perceive it as a stop sign.\n\n"}
{"id": "8587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8587", "title": "Democide", "text": "Democide\n\nDemocide is a term proposed by R. J. Rummel since at least 1994 who defined it as \"the intentional killing of an unarmed or disarmed person by government agents acting in their authoritative capacity and pursuant to government policy or high command\". According to him, this definition covers a wide range of deaths, including forced labor and concentration camp victims; killings by \"unofficial\" private groups; extrajudicial summary killings; and mass deaths due to the governmental acts of criminal omission and neglect, such as in deliberate famines, as well as killings by \"de facto\" governments, i.e. civil war killings. This definition covers any murder of any number of persons by any government. \n\nRummel created the term as an extended concept to include forms of government murder not covered by the term genocide. According to Rummel, democide surpassed war as the leading cause of non-natural death in the 20th century.\n\nDemocide is the murder of any person or people by their government, including genocide, politicide and mass murder. Democide is not necessarily the elimination of entire cultural groups but rather groups within the country that the government feels need to be eradicated for political reasons and due to claimed future threats.\n\nAccording to Rummel, genocide has three different meanings.\n\n\nThe objectives of democide include the disintegration of the political and social institutions of culture, language, national feelings, religion, and the economic existence of national groups; the destruction of the personal security, liberty, health, dignity; and even the lives of the individuals belonging to such groups.\n\nSome examples of democide cited by Rummel include the Great Purges carried out by Joseph Stalin in the Soviet Union, the deaths from the colonial policy in the Congo Free State, and Mao Zedong's Great Leap Forward, which resulted in a famine that killed millions of people. According to Rummel, these were not cases of genocide because those who were killed were not selected on the basis of their race, but were killed in large numbers as a result of government policies. Famine is classified by Rummel as democide if it fits the definition above.\n\nFor instance, Rummel re-classified Mao Zedong's Great Leap Forward as democide in 2005. He originally believed that Mao's policies were largely responsible for the famine, but that Mao's advisers had misled him. Therefore, he believed it was not an intentional famine and thus not a democide. However, reports from Jung Chang and Jon Halliday's \"\" allege that Mao knew about the famine from the beginning but did not care, and eventually Mao had to be stopped by a meeting of 7,000 top Communist Party members. Based on this new evidence, Rummel now believes the famine was intentional and considers it a democide. Taking this into account, the total for Chinese Communist Party democide is 80.86 million, more than the Soviet Union (62 million), Nazi Germany (21 million), or any other regime in the 20th century.\n\nIn his estimates, Rummel relies mostly on historical accounts, an approach that rarely provides accurate estimates. His estimates typically include a wide range and cannot be considered determinative..\n\nThus, Rummel calculates nearly 43 million deaths due to democide inside and outside the Soviet Union during Stalin's regime. This is much higher than an often quoted figure of 20 million, or a more recent figure of 9 million. Rummel has responded that the 20 million estimate is based on a figure from Robert Conquest's 1968 book \"The Great Terror\", and that Conquest's qualifier \"almost certainly too low\" is usually forgotten. Conquest's calculations excluded camp deaths before 1936 and after 1950, executions from 1939–1953, the vast deportation of the people of captive nations into the camps and their deaths 1939–1953, the massive deportation within the Soviet Union of minorities 1941–1944 and their deaths, and those the Soviet Red Army and secret police executed throughout Eastern Europe after their conquest during 1944–1945. Moreover, the Holodomor that killed 5 million in 1932–1934 is also not included.\n\nHis research shows that the death toll from democide is far greater than the death toll from war. After studying over 8,000 reports of government-caused deaths, Rummel estimates that there have been 262 million victims of democide in the last century. According to his figures, six times as many people have died from the actions of people working for governments than have died in battle.\n\nOne of his main findings is that liberal democracies have much less democide than authoritarian regimes. He argues that there is a relation between political power and democide. Political mass murder grows increasingly common as political power becomes unconstrained. At the other end of the scale, where power is diffuse, checked, and balanced, political violence is a rarity. According to Rummel, \"The more power a regime has, the more likely people will be killed. This is a major reason for promoting freedom.\" Rummel concludes that \"concentrated political power is the most dangerous thing on earth.\"\n\nSeveral other researchers have found similar results. \"Numerous researchers point out that democratic norms and political structures constrain elite decisions about the use of repression against their citizens whereas autocratic elites are not so constrained. Once in place, democratic institutions—even partial ones—reduce the likelihood of armed conflict and all but eliminate the risk that it will lead to geno/politicide.\"\n\nResearchers often give widely different estimates of mass murder. They use different definitions, methodology, and sources. For example, some include battle deaths in their calculations.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "857780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=857780", "title": "Entropic uncertainty", "text": "Entropic uncertainty\n\nIn quantum mechanics, information theory, and Fourier analysis, the entropic uncertainty or Hirschman uncertainty is defined as the sum of the temporal and spectral Shannon entropies. It turns out that Heisenberg's uncertainty principle can be expressed as a lower bound on the sum of these entropies. This is \"stronger\" than the usual statement of the uncertainty principle in terms of the product of standard deviations.\n\nIn 1957, Hirschman considered a function \"f\" and its Fourier transform \"g\" such that\nwhere the \"≈\" indicates convergence in , and normalized so that (by Plancherel's theorem),\n\nHe showed that for any such functions the sum of the Shannon entropies is non-negative,\n\nA tighter bound,\n\nwas conjectured by Hirschman and Everett, proven in 1975 by W. Beckner\nand in the same year interpreted by as a generalized quantum mechanical uncertainty principle by and Mycielski.\nThe equality holds in the case of Gaussian distributions.\n\nNote, however, that the above entropic uncertainty function is distinctly \"different\" from the quantum Von Neumann entropy represented in phase space.\n\nThe proof of this tight inequality depends on the so-called (\"q\", \"p\")-norm of the Fourier transformation. (Establishing this norm is the most difficult part of the proof.)\n\nFrom this norm, one is able to establish a lower bound on the sum of the (differential) Rényi entropies, , where , which generalize the Shannon entropies. For simplicity, we consider this inequality only in one dimension; the extension to multiple dimensions is straightforward and can be found in the literature cited.\n\nThe (\"q\", \"p\")-norm of the Fourier transform is defined to be\n\nIn 1961, Babenko found this norm for \"even\" integer values of \"q\". Finally, in 1975,\nusing Hermite functions as eigenfunctions of the Fourier transform, Beckner proved that the value of this norm (in one dimension) for all \"q\" ≥ 2 is\nThus we have the Babenko–Beckner inequality that\n\nFrom this inequality, an expression of the uncertainty principle in terms of the Rényi entropy can be derived.\n\nLetting formula_9, 2\"α\"=\"p\", and 2\"β\"=\"q\", so that and 1/2<\"α\"<1<\"β\", we have\nSquaring both sides and taking the logarithm, we get\n\nMultiplying both sides by \nreverses the sense of the inequality,\n\nRearranging terms, finally yields an inequality in terms of the sum of the Rényi entropies,\n\nNote that this inequality is symmetric with respect to and : One no longer need assume that ; only that they are positive and not both one, and that \"1/α + 1/β\" = 2. To see this symmetry, simply exchange the rôles of \"i\" and −\"i\" in the Fourier transform.\n\nTaking the limit of this last inequality as \"α, β\" → 1 yields the less general Shannon entropy inequality,\nvalid for any base of logarithm, as long as we choose an appropriate unit of information, bit, nat, etc.\n\nThe constant will be different, though, for a different normalization of the Fourier transform, (such as is usually used in physics, with normalizations chosen so that \"ħ\"=1 ), i.e.,\nIn this case, the dilation of the Fourier transform absolute squared by a factor of 2 simply adds log(2) to its entropy.\n\nThe Gaussian or normal probability distribution plays an important role in the relationship between variance and entropy: it is a problem of the calculus of variations to show that this distribution maximizes entropy for a given variance, and at the same time minimizes the variance for a given entropy. In fact, for any probability density function \"φ\" on the real line, Shannon's entropy inequality specifies:\nwhere \"H\" is the Shannon entropy and \"V\" is the variance, an inequality that is saturated only in the case of a normal distribution.\n\nMoreover, the Fourier transform of a Gaussian probability amplitude function is also Gaussian—and the absolute squares of both of these are Gaussian, too. This can then be used to derive the usual Robertson variance uncertainty inequality from the above entropic inequality, enabling \"the latter to be tighter than the former\". That is (for \"ħ\"=1), exponentiating the Hirschman inequality and using Shannon's expression above, \n\nHirschman explained that entropy—his version of entropy was the negative of Shannon's—is a \"measure of the concentration of [a probability distribution] in a set of small measure.\" Thus \"a low or large negative Shannon entropy means that a considerable mass of the probability distribution is confined to a set of small measure\".\n\nNote that this set of small measure need not be contiguous; a probability distribution can have several concentrations of mass in intervals of small measure, and the entropy may still be low no matter how widely scattered those intervals are. This is not the case with the variance: variance measures the concentration of mass about the mean of the distribution, and a low variance means that a considerable mass of the probability distribution is concentrated in a \"contiguous interval\" of small measure.\n\nTo formalize this distinction, we say that two probability density functions \"φ\" and \"φ\" are equimeasurable if\nwhere is the Lebesgue measure. Any two equimeasurable probability density functions have the same Shannon entropy, and in fact the same Rényi entropy, of any order. The same is not true of variance, however. Any probability density function has a radially decreasing equimeasurable \"rearrangement\" whose variance is less (up to translation) than any other rearrangement of the function; and there exist rearrangements of arbitrarily high variance, (all having the same entropy.)\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34964371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34964371", "title": "Eric Franklin", "text": "Eric Franklin\n\nEric N. Franklin (born February 28, 1957) is a Swiss dancer, movement educator, university lecturer, writer and founder of the Franklin Method, a method that combines creative visualization, embodied anatomy, physical and mental exercises and educational skills. He lives in Wetzikon, Switzerland.\n\nHe earned his Bachelor of Science from the University of Zurich and his Bachelor of Fine Arts at the New York University’s Tisch School of the Arts.\nAfter many experiences as a dancer and a choreographer, and \"Breakdance\", a dance book written with William Watkins in 1984, he has founded the Franklin-Method Institute in Uster, Switzerland. \nHe is a member of the International Association of Dance Medicine and Science. He has taught at the Zurich Neurological Institute, the New York University, the Royal Ballet School, the Royal Danish Ballet, the Ballet School of the Zurich Opera, the University of Vienna, the American Dance Festival. He has coached both world and European athletes that became champions, and the Cirque du Soleil artists in the Franklin Method.\n\nThe Franklin Method (in German ) was founded in 1994, and was originally for dancers. It was inspired by Mabel Elsworth Todd's ideokinesis, Bonnie Bainbridge Cohen's Body-Mind Centering and Sri Aurobindo’s Integral Yoga. Extended from dance field to every kind of human movement, this method combines dynamic science-based imagery, touch, anatomical embodiment and educational skills to create lasting positive change in body and mind, using a range of simple tools, like balls, Theraband, and other daily life objects. \nThe Franklin Method activates body and mind function through the use of imagery, experiential anatomy and reconditioning movement to improve function. It maximizes neuroplasticity to relearn body posture and movements by practicing movement with activation of unused musculature. \nThe principal goals are how to obtain dynamic body alignment and how to move the body with maximum efficiency \n. In every moment, the ideal combination of limbs, joints, gravity, moving parts, connective tissue, and muscles must be found and directed by the brain and nervous system by help of appropriate imagery.\nImagery promotes a neurogenic changement of muscular condition which allows immediate results, before any myogenic (muscle tissue) one. Connective tissue and inner organs are also directly stimulated, with touch and visualization, in order to change posture and to obtain an inner and outer balance.The exercises have a considerable impact on lowering structural stress, too.\n\nThe method is taught all over the world, including the Universities of Vienna, Cologne, Karlsruhe, The Boston Conservatory and the Juilliard School in New York City. It is recognized by the health providers in Switzerland and courses are regularly offered at Dance, Pilates, Yoga and Physiotherapy conferences.\n\nEric Franklin is author of 18 books, mainly in the mind/body field, which have been written in German and English and translated into French, Italian, Spanish, Czech, Dutch, Chinese, Japanese and Korean.\n\nHere are mentioned the publications in English:\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "863918", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863918", "title": "Eternal return", "text": "Eternal return\n\nEternal return (also known as eternal recurrence) is a theory that the universe and all existence and energy has been recurring, and will continue to recur, in a self-similar form an infinite number of times across infinite time or space.\nThe theory is found in Indian philosophy and in ancient Egypt and was subsequently taken up by the Pythagoreans and Stoics. With the decline of antiquity and the spread of Christianity, the theory fell into disuse in the Western world, with the exception of Friedrich Nietzsche, who connected the thought to many of his other concepts, including \"amor fati\". Eternal return is based on the philosophy of pre-determinism in that people are predestined to continue repeating the same events over and over again.\n\nThe basic premise proceeds from the assumption that the probability of a world coming into existence exactly like our own is nonzero. If space and time are infinite, then it follows logically that our existence must recur an infinite number of times.\n\nIn 1871 Louis Auguste Blanqui, assuming a Newtonian cosmology where time and space are infinite, claimed to have demonstrated eternal recurrence as a mathematical certainty.\n\nIn ancient Egypt, the scarab (dung beetle) was viewed as a sign of eternal renewal and reemergence of life, a reminder of the life to come. (See also Atum and Ma'at.)\n\nThe Mayans and Aztecs also took a cyclical view of time.\n\nIn ancient Greece, the concept of eternal return was connected with Empedocles, Zeno of Citium, and most notably in Stoicism (see ekpyrosis).\n\nThe concept of cyclical patterns is prominent in Indian religions, such as Jainism, Hinduism, Sikhism and Buddhism among others. The important distinction is that events don't repeat endlessly but souls take birth until they attain salvation. The wheel of life represents an endless cycle of birth, life, and death from which one seeks liberation. In Tantric Buddhism, a wheel of time concept known as the Kalachakra expresses the idea of an endless cycle of existence and knowledge.\n\nThe concept of \"eternal recurrence\", the idea that with infinite time and a finite number of events, events will recur again and again infinitely, is central to the writings of Friedrich Nietzsche. As Heidegger points out in his lectures on Nietzsche, Nietzsche's first mention of eternal recurrence, in aphorism 341 of \"The Gay Science\" (cited below), presents this concept as a hypothetical \"question\" rather than postulating it as a fact. According to Heidegger, it is the burden imposed by the \"question\" of eternal recurrence—whether or not such a thing could possibly be true—that is so significant in modern thought: \"The way Nietzsche here patterns the first communication of the thought of the 'greatest burden' [of eternal recurrence] makes it clear that this 'thought of thoughts' is at the same time 'the most burdensome thought.' \"\n\nThe thought of eternal recurrence appears in a few of his works, in particular §285 and §341 of \"The Gay Science\" and then in \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\". The most complete treatment of the subject appears in the work entitled \"Notes on the Eternal Recurrence\", a work which was published in 2007 alongside Søren Kierkegaard's own version of eternal return, which he calls 'repetition'. Nietzsche sums up his thought most succinctly when he addresses the reader with: \"Everything has returned. Sirius, and the spider, and thy thoughts at this moment, and this last thought of thine that all things will return\". However, he also expresses his thought at greater length when he says to his reader:\n\n\"Whoever thou mayest be, beloved stranger, whom I meet here for the first time, avail thyself of this happy hour and of the stillness around us, and above us, and let me tell thee something of the thought which has suddenly risen before me like a star which would fain shed down its rays upon thee and every one, as befits the nature of light. - Fellow man! Your whole life, like a sandglass, will always be reversed and will ever run out again, - a long minute of time will elapse until all those conditions out of which you were evolved return in the wheel of the cosmic process. And then you will find every pain and every pleasure, every friend and every enemy, every hope and every error, every blade of grass and every ray of sunshine once more, and the whole fabric of things which make up your life. This ring in which you are but a grain will glitter afresh forever. And in every one of these cycles of human life there will be one hour where, for the first time one man, and then many, will perceive the mighty thought of the eternal recurrence of all things:- and for mankind this is always the hour of Noon\".\n\nThis thought is indeed also noted in a posthumous fragment. The origin of this thought is dated by Nietzsche himself, via posthumous fragments, to August 1881, at Sils-Maria. In \"Ecce Homo\" (1888), he wrote that he thought of the eternal return as the \"fundamental conception\" of \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\".\n\nSeveral authors have pointed out other occurrences of this hypothesis in contemporary thought. Rudolf Steiner, who revised the first catalogue of Nietzsche's personal library in January 1896, pointed out that Nietzsche would have read something similar in Eugen Dühring's \"Courses on philosophy\" (1875), which Nietzsche readily criticized. Lou Andreas-Salomé pointed out that Nietzsche referred to ancient cyclical conceptions of time, in particular by the Pythagoreans, in the \"Untimely Meditations\". Henri Lichtenberger and Charles Andler have pinpointed three works contemporary to Nietzsche which carried on the same hypothesis: J.G. Vogt, \"Die Kraft. Eine real-monistische Weltanschauung\" (1878), Auguste Blanqui, \"L'éternité par les astres\" (1872) and Gustave Le Bon, \"L'homme et les sociétés\" (1881). Walter Benjamin juxtaposes Blanqui and Nietzsche's discussion of eternal recurrence in his unfinished, monumental work \"The Arcades Project\". However, Gustave Le Bon is not quoted anywhere in Nietzsche's manuscripts; and Auguste Blanqui was named only in 1883. Vogt's work, on the other hand, was read by Nietzsche during this summer of 1881 in Sils-Maria. Blanqui is mentioned by Albert Lange in his \"Geschichte des Materialismus\" (History of Materialism), a book closely read by Nietzsche.\nThe eternal recurrence is also mentioned in passing by the Devil in Part Four, Book XI, Chapter 9 of Dostoevsky's \"The Brothers Karamazov\", which is another possible source that Nietzsche may have been drawing upon.\n\nWalter Kaufmann suggests that Nietzsche may have encountered this idea in the works of Heinrich Heine, who once wrote:\n\n[T]ime is infinite, but the things in time, the concrete bodies, are finite. They may indeed disperse into the smallest particles; but these particles, the atoms, have their determinate numbers, and the numbers of the configurations which, all of themselves, are formed out of them is also determinate. Now, however long a time may pass, according to the eternal laws governing the combinations of this eternal play of repetition, all configurations which have previously existed on this earth must yet meet, attract, repulse, kiss, and corrupt each other again...\n\nNietzsche calls the idea \"horrifying and paralyzing\", referring to it as a burden of the \"heaviest weight\" (\"das schwerste Gewicht\") imaginable. He professes that the wish for the eternal return of all events would mark the ultimate affirmation of life:\n\nWhat, if some day or night a demon were to steal after you into your loneliest loneliness and say to you: 'This life as you now live it and have lived it, you will have to live once more and innumerable times more' ... Would you not throw yourself down and gnash your teeth and curse the demon who spoke thus? Or have you once experienced a tremendous moment when you would have answered him: 'You are a god and never have I heard anything more divine. [\"The Gay Science\", §341]\n\nTo comprehend eternal recurrence in his thought, and to not merely come to peace with it but to embrace it, requires \"amor fati\", \"love of fate\":\n\nMy formula for human greatness is \"amor fati\": that one wants to have nothing different, not forward, not backward, not in all eternity. Not merely to bear the necessary, still less to conceal it—all idealism is mendaciousness before the necessary—but to \"love\" it.\n\nIn Carl Jung's seminar on \"Thus Spoke Zarathustra\", Jung claims that the dwarf states the idea of the eternal return before Zarathustra finishes his argument of the eternal return when the dwarf says, \"'Everything straight lies,' murmured the dwarf disdainfully. 'All truth is crooked, time itself is a circle.'\" However, Zarathustra rebuffs the dwarf in the following paragraph, warning him against over-simplifications.\n\nThe philosopher and writer Albert Camus explores the notion of \"eternal return\" in his essay on \"The Myth of Sisyphus\", in which the repetitive nature of existence comes to represent life's absurdity, something the hero seeks to withstand through manifesting what Paul Tillich called \"The Courage to Be\". Though the task of rolling the stone repeatedly up the hill without end is inherently meaningless, the challenge faced by Sisyphus is to refrain from despair. Hence Camus famously concludes that, \"one must imagine Sisyphus happy.\"\n\nNietzsche scholar Walter Kaufmann has described an argument originally put forward by Georg Simmel, which rebuts the claim that a finite number of states must repeat within an infinite amount of time:\n\nEven if there were exceedingly few things in a finite space in an infinite time, they would not have to repeat in the same configurations. Suppose there were three wheels of equal size, rotating on the same axis, one point marked on the circumference of each wheel, and these three points lined up in one straight line. If the second wheel rotated twice as fast as the first, and if the speed of the third wheel was 1/π of the speed of the first, the initial line-up would never recur.\n\nThus a system could have an infinite number of distinct physical configurations that never recur. However the example presupposes the possibility of perfect continuity: for instance, if the universe proves to have a quantum foam nature, then the exact quantity of an irrational number cannot be expressed by any physical object.\n\n"}
{"id": "13244658", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13244658", "title": "Flying primate hypothesis", "text": "Flying primate hypothesis\n\nIn evolutionary biology, the flying primate hypothesis posits that megabats, a subgroup of Chiroptera (also known as flying foxes), form an evolutionary sister group of primates. The hypothesis began with Carl Linnaeus in 1758, and was again advanced by J.D. Smith in 1980. It was proposed in its modern form by Australian neuroscientist Jack Pettigrew in 1986 after he discovered that the connections between the retina and the superior colliculus (a region of the midbrain) in the megabat \"Pteropus\" were organized in the same way found in primates, and different from all other mammals. This was followed up by a longer study published in 1989, in which this was supported by the analysis of many other brain and body characteristics. Pettigrew suggested that flying foxes, colugos, and primates were all descendants of the same group of early arboreal mammals. The megabat flight and the colugo gliding could be both seen as locomotory adaptations to a life high above the ground.\n\nThe flying primate hypothesis met resistance from many zoologists. Its biggest challenges were not centered on the argument that megabats and primates are evolutionarily related, which reflects earlier ideas (such as the grouping of primates, tree shrews, colugos, and bats under the same taxonomic group, the Superorder Archonta). Rather, many biologists resisted the implication that megabats and microbats (or echolocating bats) formed distinct branches of mammalian evolution, with flight having evolved twice. This implication was borne out of the fact that microbats do not resemble primates in any of the neural characteristics studied by Pettigrew, instead resembling primitive mammals such as Insectivora in these respects. The advanced brain characters demonstrated in \"Pteropus\" could not, therefore, be generalized to imply that all bats are similar to primates.\n\nMore recently, the flying primate hypothesis was rejected when scientists compared the DNA of bats to that of primates. These genetic studies support the monophyly of bats.\n\nSoon after Pettigrew's study, work on another genus of megabat (\"Rousettus\") disputed the existence of an advanced pattern of connections between the retina and the superior colliculus. However, this conclusion was later criticised on methodological grounds. Later studies have sought further evidence of unique characteristics linking the megabat and primate brains. These studies have had limited success in identifying unique links between megabats and present-day primates, instead concluding that the megabat brain has characteristics that may resemble those likely to have existed in primitive primate brains. Nonetheless, modern neuroanatomical studies have repeatedly supported the existence of very significant differences between the brains of megabats and microbats, which is one of the anchors of the \"flying primate\" hypothesis.\n\nThe implication that bats are diphyletic has been fiercely disputed by many zoologists, not only based on the unlikelihood that wings would have evolved twice in mammals, but also on biochemical studies of molecular evolution, which indicate that bats are monophyletic. However, other studies have disputed the validity of these conclusions. In particular, it has been argued that phylogenies based solely on DNA data can be subject to an artifact named the \"base-compositional bias\" Further studies did not find base-compositional bias sufficient to discount support for the monophyly of bats.\n\n"}
{"id": "489707", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=489707", "title": "Hasse principle", "text": "Hasse principle\n\nIn mathematics, Helmut Hasse's local–global principle, also known as the Hasse principle, is the idea that one can find an integer solution to an equation by using the Chinese remainder theorem to piece together solutions modulo powers of each different prime number. This is handled by examining the equation in the completions of the rational numbers: the real numbers and the \"p\"-adic numbers. A more formal version of the Hasse principle states that certain types of equations have a rational solution if and only if they have a solution in the real numbers \"and\" in the \"p\"-adic numbers for each prime \"p\".\n\nGiven a polynomial equation with rational coefficients, if it has a rational solution, then this also yields a real solution and a \"p\"-adic solution, as the rationals embed in the reals and \"p\"-adics: a global solution yields local solutions at each prime. The Hasse principle asks when the reverse can be done, or rather, asks what the obstruction is: when can you patch together solutions over the reals and \"p\"-adics to yield a solution over the rationals: when can local solutions be joined to form a global solution?\n\nOne can ask this for other rings or fields: integers, for instance, or number fields. For number fields, rather than reals and \"p\"-adics, one uses complex embeddings and formula_1-adics, for prime ideals formula_1.\n\nThe Hasse–Minkowski theorem states that the local–global principle holds for the problem of representing 0 by quadratic forms over the rational numbers (which is Minkowski's result); and more generally over any number field (as proved by Hasse), when one uses all the appropriate local field necessary conditions. Hasse's theorem on cyclic extensions states that the local–global principle applies to the condition of being a relative norm for a cyclic extension of number fields.\n\nA counterexample by Ernst S. Selmer shows that the Hasse–Minkowski theorem cannot be extended to forms of degree 3: The cubic equation 3\"x\" + 4\"y\" + 5\"z\" = 0 has a solution in real numbers, and in all p-adic fields, but it has no nontrivial solution in which \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" are all rational numbers.\n\nRoger Heath-Brown showed that every cubic form over the integers in at least 14 variables represents 0, improving on earlier results of Davenport. Since every cubic form over the p-adic numbers with at least ten variables represents 0, the local–global principle holds trivially for cubic forms over the rationals in at least 14 variables.\n\nRestricting to non-singular forms, one can do better than this: Heath-Brown proved that every non-singular cubic form over the rational numbers in at least 10 variables represents 0, thus trivially establishing the Hasse principle for this class of forms. It is known that Heath-Brown's result is best possible in the sense that there exist non-singular cubic forms over the rationals in 9 variables that don't represent zero. However, Hooley showed that the Hasse principle holds for the representation of 0 by non-singular cubic forms over the rational numbers in at least nine variables. Davenport, Heath-Brown and Hooley all used the Hardy–Littlewood circle method in their proofs. According to an idea of Manin, the obstructions to the Hasse principle holding for cubic forms can be tied into the theory of the Brauer group; this is the Brauer–Manin obstruction, which accounts completely for the failure of the Hasse principle for some classes of variety. However, Skorobogatov has shown that the Brauer–Manin obstruction cannot explain all the failures of the Hasse principle.\n\nCounterexamples by Fujiwara and Sudo show that the Hasse–Minkowski theorem is not extensible to forms of degree 10\"n\" + 5, where \"n\" is a non-negative integer.\n\nOn the other hand, Birch's theorem shows that if \"d\" is any odd natural number, then there is a number \"N\"(\"d\") such that any form of degree \"d\" in more than \"N\"(\"d\") variables represents 0: the Hasse principle holds trivially.\n\nThe Albert–Brauer–Hasse–Noether theorem establishes a local–global principle for the splitting of a central simple algebra \"A\" over an algebraic number field \"K\". It states that if \"A\" splits over every completion \"K\" then it is isomorphic to a matrix algebra over \"K\".\n\nThe Hasse principle for algebraic groups states that if \"G\" is a simply-connected algebraic group defined over the global field \"k\" then the map from\nis injective, where the product is over all places \"s\" of \"k\".\n\nThe Hasse principle for orthogonal groups is closely related to the Hasse principle for the corresponding quadratic forms.\n\nThe Hasse principle for algebraic groups was used in the proofs of the Weil conjecture for Tamagawa numbers and the strong approximation theorem.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42146232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42146232", "title": "Hitā", "text": "Hitā\n\nHitā (Sanskrit: हिता) means 'causeway' or 'dike'. In the Upanishads this word is used to mean 'subtle connections' or 'canals of subtle energies', or particular 'nerves' or 'veins'. The journey to the heart is said to be through seventy-two thousand subtle channels called Hitā; they are the beneficent active veins (filled with different types of serums).\n\nProud Balaki skilled in expounding, eloquent, went to Ajatsatru, the King of Benares, to impart superior wisdom to him which he knew only as the conditioned Brahman; he knew about the physical and physiological categories and therefore, the king soon realized that Balaki did not know about Brahman. Balaki was not aware of the fact that whatever he knew was the result of ignorance, that the results of ignorance, being finite things, are separated from him. Ajatsatru then tells Balaki Gargya that reality is to be found in the deep-sleep-consciousness. Pippalada, the sage of the Prashna Upanishad, holds that sleep is caused by the senses being absorbed in that highest 'sensorium' the mind, which is why in deep sleep man is not able to hear, not to see, nor to smell because the mind is then merged into an ocean of light.\n\nSankara explains that Balaki knew only about those phases of Brahman that consist of name, form and action which have to be known in the sphere of ignorance. Therefore, in the context of deep-sleep-consciousness, Ajatsatru reiterates that the being full of consciousness in sleep absorbs the functions of the organs through its own consciousness and lies in Akasha that is in the heart. The heart is the seat of the intellect, the internal organ, and the other or external organs are subject to that intellect abiding in the heart. What is seen in a dream are not the attributes of the self. That conscious being, who has identified itself with action, its factors and its results due to the limitations of name and form and is superimposed by ignorance, virtually comes back to the body in the manner described in the Brihadaranyaka Upanishad:-\n\nThe experience of the waking state is seen in dreams. The Taijasa is nourished by finer food than the Vaisvanara. And, ignorance is not the natural characteristic of the self. All impressions due to the experience of high and low attributes of the relative universe are centred in the subtle body where they are stored.\n\nSwami Nikhilananda explains that the self that functions in the 'waking state' is Vaisvanara, which in the 'dream state' is Taijasa and in the 'dreamless-sleep state', \"Prajna\"; Viraj (matter) unites with this self identified with Indra in dreams when there is no distinction between the experiencer and the object of experience. In deep sleep the Atman, limited by \"Prana \" or vital breath, is called \"Prajna\". The subtle body in which the impressions that are stored in the body owing to the contact with the serums filled in the \"Hitā\" undergoes modifications under the influence of past merit and demerit, and in dreams falsely manifests itself as impressions in a variety of forms. When ignorance is eliminated and knowledge reaches its perfection, the state of identity with all ('liberation') is attained.\n"}
{"id": "950130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=950130", "title": "House numbering", "text": "House numbering\n\nHouse numbering is the system of giving a unique number to each building in a street or area, with the intention of making it easier to locate a particular building. The house number is often part of a postal address. The term describes the number of any building (residential or not) with a mailbox, or even a vacant lot.\n\nHouse numbering schemes vary by location, and in many cases even within cities. In some areas of the world, including many remote areas, houses are named but are not assigned numbers.\n\nA house numbering scheme was present in Pont Notre-Dame in Paris in 1512. However, the purpose of the numbering was generally to determine the distribution of property ownership in the city, rather than for the purpose of organization.\n\nIn the 18th century the first street numbering schemes were applied across Europe, to aid in administrative tasks and the provision of services such as mail delivery. The \"New View of London\" reported in 1708 that \"at Prescott Street, Goodman's Fields, instead of signs, the houses are distinguished by numbers\". Parts of the Paris suburbs were numbered in the 1720s; the houses in the Jewish quarter in the city of Prague in the Austrian Empire were numbered in the same decade to aid the authorities in the conscription of the Jews.\n\nStreet numbering took off in the mid 18th century, especially in Prussia, where authorities were ordered to \"fix numbers on the houses ... in little villages on the day before the troops march in\". In the 1750s and 60s, street numbering on a large scale was applied in Madrid, London, Paris, and Vienna, as well as many other cities across Europe. On 1 March 1768, King Louis XV of France decreed that all French houses outside of Paris affix house numbers, primarily for tracking troops quartered in civilian homes.\n\nIn Australia and New Zealand, the current standard (Australia/New Zealand joint standard AS/NZS 4819:2011 - Rural & Urban Addressing) is directed at local governments that have the primary responsibility for addressing and road naming. The standard calls for lots and buildings on newly created streets to be assigned odd numbers (on the left) and even numbers (on the right) when facing in the direction of increasing numbers (the European system) reflecting already common practice. It first came into force in 2003 under AS/NZS 4819:2003 - Geographic Information – Rural & Urban Addressing. Exceptions are where the road forms part of the boundary between different council areas or cities. For example, Underwood Road in Rochedale South, divided between Logan City and the City of Brisbane.\n\nIn New South Wales, the vast majority of streets were numbered before 2003, some with odd numbers assigned to houses on the right of the street when facing the direction along which numbers increase. There is no plan to reassign these numbers.\n\nOn some long urban roads (e.g. Parramatta Road in Sydney) numbers ascend until the road crosses a council or suburb boundary, then start again at 1 or 2, where a street sign gives the name of the relevant area — these streets have repeating numbers. In semi-rural and rural areas, where houses and farms are widely spaced, a numbering system based on tens of metres or (less commonly) metres has been devised. Thus a farm from the start of the road, on the right-hand side would be numbered 230.\n\nBallarat Central, Victoria uses the US system of increasing house numbers by 100 after a major cross street. Streets are designated North or South depending upon their relative position to Sturt Street.\n\nIn Japan and South Korea, a city is divided into small numbered zones. The houses within each zone are then labelled in the order in which they were constructed, or clockwise around the block. This system is comparable to the system of sestieri (\"sixths\") used in Venice. Visitors to a large, complex city like Tokyo often must resort to asking for directions at a local police substation.\n\nIn Hong Kong, a former British colony, the British and European norm to number houses on one side of the street with odd numbers, and the other side with even numbers, is generally followed. Some roads or streets along the coastline may however have numbering only on one side, even if the opposite side is later reclaimed. These roads or streets include Ferry Street, Connaught Road West, and Gloucester Road.\n\nMost mainland Chinese cities use the European system, with odd numbers on one side of the road and even numbers on the opposite side. In high-density old Shanghai, a street number may be either a \"hao\" (\"号\" hào) or \"nong\" (\"弄\" nòng/lòng), both of them being numbered successively. A \"hao\" refers a door rather than a building, for example, if a building with the address 25 Wuming Rd is followed by another building, which has three entrances opening to the street, the latter will be numbered as three different \"hao\", from 27 to 29 Wuming Rd.\n\nA \"nong\", sometimes translated as \"lane\", refers to a block of buildings. So if in the above example the last building is followed by an enclosed compound, it will have the address \"lane 31, Wuming Rd\". A \"nong\" is further subdivided in its own \"hao\", which do not correlate with the \"hao\" of the street, so the full address of an apartment within a compound may look like \"Apartment 5005, no. 7, lane 31, Wuming Rd\".\n\nThe most common street address formats in Vietnam are:\n\n\nAnother scheme is based on residential areas called . A is addressed by house number, road, and , for example \". Some localities still use an older address format based on neighborhood (): for example, in \"\", 7A is the neighborhood number. This confusing format is being gradually phased out in favor of the more modern formats above.\n\nGenerally in Iran and especially in the capital Tehran odd numbers are all on one side and the even numbers opposite along streets. Infrequently, this style confuses people because this is not how it works everywhere in the city and sometimes the numbers get intertwined with each other. In the rural parts, some houses have no number at all and some have their owner's details as the number instead. In some cases, using the number 13 is skipped replacing it with equivalents such as: 12+1 or 14-1\n\nIn Europe the most common house numbering scheme, in this article referred to as the \"European\" scheme, is to number each plot on one side of the road with ascending odd numbers, from 1, and those on the other with ascending even numbers, from 2 (or sometimes 0). The odd numbers are usually on the left side of the road, looking in the direction in which the numbers increase.\n\nWhere additional buildings are inserted or subdivided, these are often suffixed a, b, c, etc. (in Spain and France, \"bis\", \"ter\", \"quater\"). Where buildings are later combined, they may use just one of the original numbers, combine them (\"13/15\"), or give their address as a range (e.g. \"13–17\"; not to be construed as including the even numbers 14 and 16). Buildings with multiple entrances may have a single number for the entire building or a separate number for each entrance.\n\nWhere plots are not built upon gaps may be left in the numbering scheme or marked on maps for the plots. If buildings are added to a stretch of old street the following may be used rather than a long series of suffixes to the existing numbers: a new name for a new estate/block along the street (e.g. \"1-100 Waterloo Place/Platz, Sud St.\".); a new road name inserted along the course of a street either with or without mention of the parent street; unused numbers \"above\" the highest house number may be used (although rarely as this introduces confusing discontinuity), or the upper remainder of the street is renumbered.\n\nOther local numbering schemes are also in use for administrative or historic reasons, including clockwise and anti-clockwise numbering, district-based numbering, distance-based numbering, and double numbering.\n\nThe Finnish numbering system incorporates solutions to the problems which arose with mass urbanization and increase in building density. Addresses always are formatted as street name followed by street address number. With new, infill building, new addresses are created by adding letters representing the new ground level access point within the old street address, and if there are more apartments than ground level access points, a number added for the apartment number within the new development. The original street numbering system followed the pattern of odd numbers on one side and even numbers on the other side of the street, with lower numbers towards the center of town and higher numbers further away from the center.\n\nThe infill numbering system avoids renumbering the entire street when developments are modified. For example, Mannerheimintie 5 (a large mansion house on a large city plot) was demolished and replaced with 4 new buildings each with 2 stairwells all accessible from Mannerheimintie. The 8 new access stairwells are labelled A B C D E F G and H (each with the letter visible above the stairwell). Each stairwell has 4 apartments on 5 floors, so the new development has 160 new addresses in all running from Mannerheimintie 5 A 1 through to Mannerheimintie 5 H 160. The opposite example is where old, narrow buildings have been combined; Iso Roobertinkatu 36, 38 and 40 were demolished in the 1920s and the new building has the address Iso Roobertinkatu 36-40.\n\nIn the rural parts of Finland, a variant of this method is used. As in towns, odd and even numbers are on opposite sides of the road, but many numbers are skipped. Instead, the house number indicates the distance in tens of metres from the start of the road. For example, \"Pengertie 159\" would be 1590 metres from the place where Pengertie starts.\n\nWhen more buildings are constructed than numbers were originally allotted, discontinuity of numbering is avoided by giving multiple adjacent buildings the same number, with a letter suffix starting at \"A\". In Haarlem, Netherlands, red numbers are used for upstairs apartments.\n\nIn Portugal, the European scheme is most commonly used. However, in Porto and several other cities in the Portuguese Northern region, as well as in the Cascais Municipality (near Lisbon), houses are numbered in the North American style, with the number assigned being proportional to the distance in meters from the baseline of the street.\n\nLisbon numbering is European and furthermore 'from the river, odd numbers left'. Because the Tagus borders Lisbon on the south and the east, this means that north-south streets are numbered low from the south, and east-west streets are numbered low from the east.\n\nIn many new planned neighborhoods of Portugal houses and other buildings are identified by a \"lote\" (plot) number without reference to their street. This is in law the \"número de polícia\", which literally means \"police's number\" — the police formerly assigned the numbers rather than the town hall. The \"lote\" is the construction plot number used in the urban plan, a consecutive number series applies to a broad neighborhood. In theory and in most cases, the use of a \"lote\" number system is provisional, being replaced by a traditional street number system some time after the neighborhood is built and inhabited. In some neighborhoods, \"lote\" numbers are kept for many years, some never being replaced by street numbers.\n\nThe relatively new planned neighborhood of Parque das Nações in Lisbon has also a different numbering scheme: each building is referred by its plot, parcel, and building (in Portuguese: \"lote\", \"parcela\", \"prédio\").\n\nThe European system is most widely used. The odd numbers will typically be on the left-hand side as seen from the centre of the town or village, with the lowest numbers at the end of the street closest to the town centre. Intermediate properties usually have a number suffixed A, B, C, etc., much more rarely instead being given a half number, e.g. the old police station at Camberwell Church Street. It is extremely rare for a property (built next to no. 2 after the street had been numbered) to be zero (0) or named Minusone; researchers have found these instances once in Middlesbrough and once in Newbury. In many rural streets, significantly built alongside before 1900, houses remain named (unnumbered).\n\nIn some places, particularly when open land, a river or a large church fronts one side, all plots on one side of a street are numbered consecutively. Such a street if modern and long is more likely to be numbered using odd numbers, starting at 1. Along oldest streets, numbering is usually clockwise and consecutive: for example in Pall Mall, some new towns, and in many villages in Wales. This usually also applies to all culs-de-sacs. For instance, 10 Downing Street, the official home of the Prime Minister, is next door to 11 Downing Street. Houses which surround squares are usually numbered consecutively clockwise.\n\nIn the early/mid 19th century numbering of long urban streets commonly changed (from clockwise, strict consecutive to odds (consecutive) which face evens (consecutive)). Where this took place it presents a street-long pitfall to researchers using historic street directories and other records. A very rare variation may be seen where a high street (main street) continues from a less commercial part — a road which breaks the UK conventions by not starting at 1 or 2. On one side of the main road between Stratford and Leytonstone houses up to no. 122 are \"Leytonstone Road\". The next house is \"124 High Road, Leytonstone\".\n\nDevelopers may avoid the number 13 for house numbering as in Iran, because that number is considered by some to be unlucky.\n\nBlocks of flats (apartments) are treated in two ways:\n\nIn the UK street numbering and street signposts vary across local authorities. Numbering plates (or similar) are overwhelmingly at the discretion of house owners.\n\nIn the UK fanlights in front doors were introduced in the 1720s in which the house number may be engraved. Contemporary architecture and modern house building techniques see alternatively acrylic, aluminium, or glass, ceramic, brass, slate, or stone used.\n\nItaly mostly follows the European scheme described above but there are some exceptions, generally for historical reasons.\n\nIn Venice, houses are numbered within six named series (one per \"sestiere\" district). Similarly, small villages in rural areas may also occasionally use a single progressive series for all house numbers.\n\nIn Genoa, Savona and Florence houses are marked with black (sometimes blue in Florence) numbers; businesses are usually (but not always) given red numbers, giving up to two distinct, numerically overlapping series per street. Those of businesses are denoted in all other writing (documents, online directories, etc.) by the addition of the letter \"r\" (e.g. \"Via dei Servi 21r\").\n\nIn most of Turkey, currently the European house numbering scheme is applied. The Istanbul Metropolitan Municipality introduced new house numbering and street signs in 2007 by two official designers.\n\nIn Central and Eastern Europe, with some exceptions, houses are typically numbered in the European style. Many streets, however, use the \"boustrophedon\" system.\n\nA double numbering system has been used, similar to the system in the Czech Republic and Slovakia, which also were formerly parts of the Austro-Hungarian Empire.\n\nIn some Czech and Slovak cities and settlements, two numbering systems are used concurrently.\n\nThe basic house number is the \"old\" or \"conscription number\" (Czech: \"popisné číslo\", Slovak: \"súpisné číslo\"). The conscription number is unique within the municipal part (a village, a quarter, mostly for one cadastral area) or within a whole small municipality.\n\nFor makeshift and recreational buildings in the Czech Republic, \"registration number\" (\"evidenční číslo\") from a separate number series is used instead of the descriptive number. Typically, this number begins with zero or with the letter \"E\", or has different colour, or contains words like \"nouzová stavba\" (\"makeshift structure\") or \"chata\" (\"weekend house\"), etc.\n\nIn some settlements where streets have names (mostly in cities), \"new\" or \"orientational numbers\" (Czech: \"orientační číslo\", Slovak: \"orientačné číslo\") are also used concurrently. The orientational numbers are arranged sequentially within the street or square. If the building is on a corner or has two sides, it can have two or more orientation numbers, one for each of the adjacent streets or squares. Solitary houses distant from named streets often have no orientation number. In some places, the name of a small quarter is used instead of a street name. If there is a new building between two older numbered ones, the orientation number is distinguished with an additional lower case letter (for example, the sequence could be 5, 7, 9, 9a, 9b, 9c, 11, 13). In the 1930–1950s in Brno, lower case letters were used for separate entrances of modern block houses perpendicular to the street.\n\nEither number may be used in addresses. Sometimes, businesses will use both numbers to avoid confusion, usually putting the descriptive (or registration) number first: \"Hlavní 20/7\". The two (or three) types of numbers are commonly distinguished by colour of the sign. Each municipality can have its own traditional or official rules and colours. In Prague and many other Bohemian cities, descriptive numbers are red, orientation numbers are blue and \"evidential\" numbers are green or yellow or red. In many Bohemian municipalities, descriptive numbers are blue, black, or are not unified. In Brno and some Moravian and Slovak cities, descriptive numbers are white-black signs, orientation numbers are red-white signs. Many cities and municipalities have different rules.\n\nFormerly, Roman numerals signifying the city district were added to the conscription number: e.g. \"125/III\" means conscription number 125 in district number III (in Prague, this was Malá Strana). Roman numerals were used both in cities and in village municipalities with more settlements. Nowadays, the name of the settlement is preferred instead of Roman numerals.\n\nThe first conscription numbering was ordered by Maria Theresa in 1770 and implemented in 1770–1771. The series was given successively as the soldiers went through the settlement describing houses with numbers. Thereafter, every new house was allocated the next number sequentially, irrespective of its location. Most villages still use their original number series from 1770–1771. In cities, houses have been renumbered once or more often in order to be sequentialthe first wave of renumbering came in 1805–1815. In 1857, the Austrian Emperor allowed a new system of numbering by streets. This new system was introduced in the biggest cities (Prague, Brno) in the 1860s. In 1884, land registration books were introduced and they used the old (conscription) numbers as a permanent and stable identifier of buildings. The new (orientation) numbers continue to be used concurrently.\n\nIn Germany, the European scheme (ascending odd/even numbers, see above) is usually used. In most cases, the numbers increase in the direction away from the town/city centre. Some places use a clockwise scheme for historical reasons, called \"Hufeisennummerierung\" (\"horseshoe numbering\") due to the progression of the numbers. This includes Berlin, parts of Hamburg and some other towns in northern Germany.\n\nIn some older streets in northern and eastern Germany, mainly in the former Kingdom of Prussia and adjoining areas, including parts of Berlin and Hamburg, the \"horseshoe\" numbering system (counter-clockwise \"boustrophedon\"-style numbering) was used for the numbering of new streets up until the 1920s, after which the European system was introduced for new streets.\n\nUnder the horseshoe numbering scheme, starting from one end, the buildings on the right side of the street were numbered sequentially from the near end to the far end of the street. The next number was then assigned to the last building on the left, opposite side of the street, the following numbers sequentially doubling back along the left side of the street. The building with the highest number would be the first on the left side, facing building number 1 across the street. The horseshoe numbering system remains in use in older streets in many German cities, notably Berlin, although newer adjoining streets may use modern European numbering. Kurfürstendamm in Berlin is a well-known example of a street where the horseshoe numbering scheme is still in use, although the numbering today starts with 11 at Breitscheidplatz, with number 237 across the street being the highest number.\n\nVery small villages sometimes number all buildings in the village sequentially according to their date of construction, and independent of the street they are on. However, this scheme is being phased out because it makes it hard to find a building by its address.\nIn Russia and many other former USSR countries, the European style is generally used, with numbers starting from the end of the street closest to the town center. Buildings or plots at street intersections may be assigned a composite number, which includes the number along the intersecting street separated by a slash (), like in Нахимова, 14/41 (14 is the number along Nakhimova street and 41 is the number along intersecting street).\n\nThe odd numbers are usually on the left side of the road, looking in the direction in which the numbers increase; though in some cities (including Saint Petersburg) the odd numbers are on the right side. Some cities (for example, Nizhniy Novgorod) have mixed numbering: odd numbers on the right in some parts of the city and on the left in others.\n\nSoviet era housing districts (microdistricts) often have a complicated network of access lanes thought too small to merit their own names. Buildings in these lanes are ascribed to larger streets which may be quite far from their location; a building placed along a street may sometimes be ascribed to another street, which sometimes makes finding a building by its address a challenging task.\n\nIn some cities, especially hosting large scientific or military research centers in Soviet time, the numbering might be different: houses may have numbers related to the block rather than the street, thus 12-й квартал, дом 3 (Block 12, House 3), similar to the Japanese and Korean systems (see below). Aktau is one example of this.\n\nWhen a numbered plot contains multiple buildings, they are assigned an additional component of the street address, called корпус (building), which is usually a sequentially assigned number unique within the plot (but sometimes contains letters as in 15а, 15б, 15в and so on). So, a Russian street address may look like Московское шоссе, дом 23, корпус 2 (Moscow Street, plot 23, building 2), or Льва Толстого, дом 14б (Leo Tolstoy Street, plot 14, building b).\n\nOn very long roads in suburban areas, a kilometer numbering system also may be used (like Australian rural numbering system). For example, 9-й км Воткинского шоссе (9th kilometer of Votkinsk Highway), and Шабердинский тракт, 7-й км (7th kilometer of Shaberdy Road).\n\nIn Latin America, some countries, like Mexico and Uruguay, use systems similar to those in Europe. Houses are numbered in ascending order from downtown to the border of the city. In Mexico, the cities are usually divided in \"Colonias\", which are small or medium areas. The \"colonia\" is commonly included in the address before the postal code. Sometimes when houses merge in a street or new constructions are built after the numbering was made, the address can become ambiguous. When a number is re-used, a letter is added for the newer address. For example, if there are two 35s, one remains as \"35\", and the second one becomes \"35A\" or \"35Bis\".\n\nIt is sometimes common in remote towns or non-planned areas inside the cities, that the streets do not have any name and the houses do not have numbers. In these cases, the address of the houses are usually the name of a person or family, the name of the area or town, or \"Dirección Conocida\" (\"known address\"), which means that the house of the family is known by almost all the community. This kind of addressing is only used in remote towns or small communities near highways. For people living near highways or roads, the usual address is the kilometer distance of the road in which the house is established; if there is more than one address, some references might be written or the \"Dirección Conocida\" may be added.\n\nIn Uruguay, most house numbering starts at a high number among the hundreds or the thousands. The system is similar to the French-Spanish one: when a house is divided the term 'bis' is added with the difference that no single term designates the third: when a house is divided or added between another the term 'bis' is repeated as many divisions have been made or houses added in between, for example '3217 bis bis' corresponds to the third house from the 3217th, and so on, when many houses are merged the lowest number is used, leaving the in-between numbers missing. Also there are cases when no number is assigned, this occurs mostly in peripheral areas inside the cities, low house numbering occurs in small locations and in balneary areas houses are designated by name rather than number.\n\nIn countries like Brazil and Argentina, a scheme is used also for streets in cities, where the house number is the distance measured in meters from the house to the start of the street. In Venezuela, houses, buildings, and streets have names instead of numbers.\n\nIn the United States and Canada, streets are usually numbered with odd on one side and even on the other. The specific ordering of the numbers vary based on the policies of the local municipality. Generally, three different systems exist:\n\n\n\n\nEven within these systems, there is are also two ways to define the starting point for the numbering system. Some places will start the numbering system at the start of the street itself. Other places will define a numbering system based on a defined point or line, such as a municipal or county boundary, or a defined intersection near the center of the municipality, with numbers increasing generally as one gets further from the baseline, regardless of where streets start or stop.\n"}
{"id": "5254035", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5254035", "title": "Inherent jurisdiction", "text": "Inherent jurisdiction\n\nInherent jurisdiction is a doctrine of the English common law that a superior court has the jurisdiction to hear any matter that comes before it, unless a statute or rule limits that authority or grants exclusive jurisdiction to some other court or tribunal. The term is also used when a governmental institution derives its jurisdiction from a fundamental governing instrument such as a constitution. In the English case of \"Bremer Vulkan Schiffbau und Maschinenfabrik v. South India Shipping Corporation Ltd\", Lord Diplock described the court's inherent jurisdiction as a general power to control its own procedure so as to prevent its being used to achieve injustice. \n\nInherent jurisdiction appears to apply to an almost limitless set of circumstances. There are four general categories for use of the court's inherent jurisdiction:\n\n\nAs such, the exercise of inherent jurisdiction is a broad doctrine allowing a court to control its own processes and to control the procedures before it. The power stems not from any particular statute or legislation, but rather from inherent powers invested in a court to control the proceedings brought before it.\n\nAccording to the case law in Canada, the key restriction on the application of inherent jurisdiction is that the doctrine cannot be used to override an existing statute or rule. The clearest articulation of such restriction is set out in the Supreme Court of Canada decision in \"College Housing Co-operative Ltd. v Baxter Student Housing Ltd. (1976)\" which was a case dealing with whether a judge had exceeded jurisdiction in determining the mortgagee should have priority over other charges and encumbrances. The Supreme Court of Canada stated that a court cannot negate the unambiguous expression of legislative will and further held that:\nInherent jurisdiction cannot, of course, be exercised so as to conflict with statute or rule. Moreover, because it is a special and extraordinary power, it should be exercised only sparingly and in a clear case.\nAnother restriction on the application of the doctrine of inherent jurisdiction appears to be that inherent jurisdiction cannot be used to create new rules of substantive law.\n\nThe rules of civil procedure in various provinces in Canada have varying relationships with the inherent jurisdiction of their courts. In Ontario the Rules of Civil Procedure are considered to be regulations of the Courts of Justice Act, and thus an expression of legislative will. They are created and amended by a \"Civil Rules Committee\" which consists of fourteen judges and thirteen other persons involved in the legal community including the Attorney General or his representative. The rules are subject to the approval of the Lieutenant Governor in Council. The judges of the Court obviously have a part in the making of the rules, but the rules are regulations under the Act. Inherent jurisdiction cannot be used to conflict with the unambiguous expression of the Rules.\n\nIn Nova Scotia, on the other hand, the Rules of Civil Procedure are made by the judges of the Superior Court and the Court of Appeal pursuant to s.46 of the Judicature Act. The Attorney General does not have a hand in their creation, and they are not subject to approval by the Lieutenant Governor in Council. The Court of Appeal for Nova Scotia has taken the position that a single judge of the court may use the inherent jurisdiction of the court to manage its own procedures.\n\n"}
{"id": "4187880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4187880", "title": "Interlocus contest evolution", "text": "Interlocus contest evolution\n\nInterlocus contest evolution (ICE) is a process of intergenomic conflict by which different loci within a single genome antagonistically coevolve. ICE supposes that the Red Queen process, which is characterized by a never-ending antagonistic evolutionary arms race, does not only apply to species but also to genes within the genome of a species.\n\nBecause sexual recombination allows different gene loci to evolve semi-autonomously, genes have the potential to coevolve antagonistically. ICE occurs when \"an allelic substitution at one locus selects for a new allele at the interacting locus, and vice versa.\" As a result, ICE can lead to a chain reaction of perpetual gene substitution at antagonistically interacting loci, and no stable equilibrium can be achieved. The rate of evolution thus increases at that locus.\n\nICE is thought to be the dominant mode of evolution for genes controlling social behavior. The ICE process can explain many biological phenomena, including intersexual conflict, parent offspring conflict, and interference competition.\n\nA fundamental conflict between the sexes lies in differences in investment: males generally invest predominantly in fertilization while females invest predominantly in offspring. This conflict manifests itself in many traits associated with sexual reproduction. Genes expressed in only one sex are selectively neutral in the other sex; male- and female-linked genes can therefore be acted upon separated by selection and will evolve semi-autonomously. Thus, one sex of a species may evolve to better itself rather than better the species as a whole, sometimes with negative results for the opposite sex: loci will antagonistically coevolve to enhance male reproductive success at females’ expense on the one hand, and to enhance female resistance to male coercion on the other. This is an example of intralocus sexual conflict, and is unlikely to be resolved fully throughout the genome. However, in some cases this conflict may be resolved by the restriction of the gene’s expression to only the sex that it benefits, resulting in sexual dimorphism.\n\nThe ICE theory can explain the differentiation of the human X- and Y-chromosomes. Semi-autonomous evolution may have promoted genes beneficial to females in the X-chromosome even when detrimental to males, and genes beneficial to males in the Y-chromosome, even when detrimental to females. As the distribution of the X-chromosome is three times as large as the Y-chromosome (the X-chromosome occurs in 3/4 of offspring genes, while the Y-chromosome occurs in only 1/4), the Y-chromosome has a reduced opportunity for rapid evolution. Thus the Y-chromosome has \"shed\" its genes to leave only the essential ones (such as the SRY gene), which gives rise to the differences in the X- and Y-chromosomes.\n\nA father, mother and offspring may differ in the optimal resource allocation to the offspring. This co-evolutionary conflict can be considered in the context of ICE. Selection will favor genes in the male to maximize female investment in the current offspring, no matter the consequences to the female's reproduction later in life, while selection will favor genes in the female that increase her overall lifetime fitness. Genes expressed in the offspring will be selected to produce an intermediary level of resource allocation between the male-benefit and female-benefit loci. This three-way conflict again occurs when parents feed their offspring, as the optimum feeding rate and optimum point in time to discontinue feeding differ between father, mother and offspring.\n\nICE can also explain the theory of interference competition, which is most likely to be associated with opposing sets of genes that determine the outcome of competition between individuals. Different sets of genes may code for signal or receiver phenotypes, such as in the context of threat displays: when a competing male can win more contests by intimidation, rather than by fighting, selection will favor the accumulation of deceitful genes that may not be honest indicators of the male’s fighting capability.\n\nFor example, primitive male elephant seals may have used the lowest frequencies in the threat call of a rival as an indication of body size. The elephant seal's enormous nose may have evolved as a resonating device to amplify low frequencies, illustrating selection that favors the production of low-frequency threat vocalizations. However, this counter-selects for receptor systems that provide an increased threshold required for intimidation, which in turn selects for deeper threat vocalizations. The rapid divergence of threat displays among closely related species provides further evidence in support of the co-evolutionary arms race within the genome of a single species, driven by the ICE process.\n"}
{"id": "2641999", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2641999", "title": "Intrinsic and extrinsic properties (philosophy)", "text": "Intrinsic and extrinsic properties (philosophy)\n\nAn intrinsic property is a property that an object or a thing has of itself, independently of other things, including its context. An extrinsic (or relational) property is a property that depends on a thing's relationship with other things. For example, mass is an intrinsic property of any physical object, whereas weight is an extrinsic property that varies depending on the strength of the gravitational field in which the respective object is placed. As such, the question of intrinsicality and extrinsicality in empirically observable objects is a significant field of study in ontology, the branch of philosophy concerned with explaining the fundamental nature of being.\n\nDavid Lewis offered a list of criteria that should condense the distinction between intrinsic and extrinsic properties (numbers and italics added):\n\n\nIntrinsic properties are fundamental in understanding Kantian deontological ethics, which is based upon the argument that an action should be viewed on its intrinsic value (the value of the action in itself) with regard to ethics and morality, as opposed to consequentialist utilitarian arguments that an action should be viewed by the value of its outcomes.\n\nIntrinsicism is the belief that value is a non-relational characteristic of an object. This means that an object can be valuable or not, good or bad, without reference to who it is good or bad for, and without reference to the reason it is good or bad. One example of this might be the belief that certain sex acts are intrinsically evil, even if they harm no one.\n\nExtrinsicism is the tendency to place major emphasis on external matters rather than on more profound realities. In terms of morals and ethics, it tends to stress the external observance of laws and precepts, with lesser concern for the ultimate principles underlying moral conduct.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40438174", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40438174", "title": "Jewish left", "text": "Jewish left\n\nThe Jewish left consists of Jews who identify with, or support, left-wing or liberal causes, consciously as Jews, either as individuals or through organizations. There is no one organization or movement which constitutes the Jewish left, however. Jews have been major forces in the history of the labor movement, the settlement house movement, the women's rights movement, anti-racist work, and anti-fascist and anti-capitalist organizations of many forms in Europe, the United States and modern-day Israel. Jews have a rich history of involvement in anarchism, socialism, Marxism, and Western liberalism. Although the expression \"on the left\" covers a range of politics, many well-known figures \"on the left\" have been of Jews who were born into Jewish families and have various degrees of connection to Jewish communities, Jewish culture, Jewish tradition, or the Jewish religion in its many variants.\n\nJewish leftism has its philosophic roots in the Jewish Enlightenment, or Haskalah, led by thinkers such as Moses Mendelssohn, as well as the support of many European Jews such as Ludwig Börne for republican ideals in the aftermath of the French Revolution and the Napoleonic Wars. In the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, a movement for Jewish Emancipation spread across Europe, strongly associated with the emergence of political liberalism, based on the Enlightenment principles of rights and equality under the law. Because liberals represented the political left of the time (see left-right politics), emancipated Jews, as they entered the political culture of the nations where they lived, became closely associated with liberal parties. Thus, many Jews supported the American Revolution of 1776, the French Revolution of 1789, and the European Revolutions of 1848; while Jews in England tended to vote for the Liberal Party, which had led the parliamentary struggle for Jewish Emancipation — an arrangement called by some scholars \"the liberal Jewish compromise\".\n\nIn the age of industrialisation in the late nineteenth century, a Jewish working class emerged in the cities of Eastern and Central Europe. Before long, a Jewish labour movement emerged too. The Jewish Labour Bund–General Jewish Labor Union was formed in Lithuania, Poland, and Russia in 1897. Distinctive Jewish socialist organizations formed and spread across the Jewish Pale of Settlement in the Russian Empire. There were also a significant number of people of Jewish origin who did not explicitly identify as Jews per se, but were active in anarchist, socialist, and social democratic as well as communist organizations, movements, and parties.\n\nAs Zionism grew in strength as a political movement, socialist Zionist parties were formed, such as Ber Borochov's Poale Zion. There were non-Zionist left-wing forms of Jewish nationalism, such as territorialism (which called for a Jewish national homeland, but not necessarily in Palestine), autonomism (which called for non-territorial national rights for Jews in multinational empires), and the folkism, advocated by Simon Dubnow, (which celebrated the Jewish culture of the Yiddish-speaking masses).\n\nAs Eastern European Jews migrated West from the 1880s, these ideologies took root in growing Jewish communities, such as London's East End, Paris's Pletzl, New York City's Lower East Side, and Buenos Aires. There was a lively Jewish anarchist scene in London, a central figure of which was, the non-Jewish German thinker and writer Rudolf Rocker. The important Jewish socialist movement in the United States, with its Yiddish-language daily, \"The Forward\", and trade unions such as the International Ladies' Garment Workers' Union and the Amalgamated Clothing Workers. Important figures in these milieux included Rose Schneiderman, Abraham Cahan, Morris Winchevsky, and David Dubinsky.\n\nIn the late 19th and early 20th centuries, Jews played a major role in the Social Democratic parties of Germany, Russia, Austria-Hungary, and Poland. Historian Enzo Traverso has used the term \"Judeo-Marxism\" to describe the innovative forms of Marxism associated with these Jewish socialists. These ranged from strongly cosmopolitan positions hostile to all forms of nationalism (as with Rosa Luxemburg and, to a lesser extent, Leon Trotsky) to positions more sympathetic to cultural nationalism (as with the Austromarxists or Vladimir Medem).\n\nAs with the American revolution of 1776, the French revolution of 1789, and the German revolution of 1848, many Jews worldwide welcomed the Russian revolution of 1917, celebrating the fall of a regime that had presided over antisemitic pogroms, and believing that the new order in what was to become the Soviet Union would bring improvements in the situation of Jews in those lands. Many Jews became involved in Communist parties, constituting large proportions of their membership in many countries, including Great Britain and the U.S. There were specifically Jewish sections of many Communist parties, such as the Yevsektsiya in the Soviet Union. The Communist regime in the USSR pursued what could be characterised as ambivalent policies towards Jews and Jewish culture, at times supporting their development as a national culture (e. g., sponsoring significant Yiddish language scholarship and creating an autonomous Jewish territory in Birobidzhan), at times pursuing antisemitic purges, such as that in the wake of the so-called Doctors' plot. (See also Komzet.)\n\nWith the advent of fascism in parts of Europe in the 1920s and 1930s, many Jews responded by becoming actively involved in the left, and particularly the Communist parties, which were at the forefront of the anti-fascist movement. For example, many Jewish volunteers fought in the International Brigades in the Spanish Civil War (for instance in the American Abraham Lincoln Brigade and in the Polish-Jewish Naftali Botwin Company). Jews and leftists fought Oswald Mosley's British fascists at the Battle of Cable Street. This mass movement was influenced by the Jewish Anti-Fascist Committee in the Soviet Union.\n\nIn World War II, the Jewish left played a major part in resistance to Nazism. For example, Bundists and left Zionists were key in Żydowska Organizacja Bojowa and the Warsaw Ghetto Uprising. \n\nAs well as the movements rooted in the Jewish working class, relatively assimilated middle class Jews in Central and Western Europe began to search for sources of radicalism in Jewish tradition. For example, Martin Buber drew on Hasidism in articulating his anarchist philosophy, Gershom Scholem was an anarchist and a kabbalah scholar, Walter Benjamin was equally influenced by Marxism and Jewish messianism, Gustav Landauer was a religious Jew and a libertarian communist, Jacob Israël de Haan combined socialism with Haredi Judaism, while left-libertarian Bernard Lazare became a passionately Jewish Zionist in 1897, but wrote 2 years later to Herzl - and by extension to the Zionist Action Committee -, \"You are bourgeois in thoughts, bourgeois in your feelings, bourgeois in your ideas, bourgeois in your conception of society.\". In Weimar Germany, Walther Rathenau was a leading figure of the Jewish left.\n\nIn the twentieth century, especially after the Second Aliyah, socialist Zionism - first developed in Russia by the Marxist Ber Borochov and the non-Marxists Nachman Syrkin and A. D. Gordon - became a powerful force in the Yishuv, the Jewish settlement in Palestine. Poale Zion, the Histadrut labour union and the Mapai party played a major part in the campaign for an Israeli state, with socialist politicians like David Ben-Gurion and Golda Meir amongst the founders of the nation. At the same time, the kibbutz movement was an experiment in practical socialism.\n\nIn the 1940s, many on the left advocated a binational state in Israel/Palestine, rather than an exclusively Jewish state. (This position was taken by Hannah Arendt and Martin Buber, for example). Since independence in 1948, there has been a lively Israeli left, both Zionist (the Labour Party, Meretz) and anti-Zionist (Palestine Communist Party, Maki). The Labour Party and its predecessors have been in power in Israel for significant periods since 1948.\n\nThere are two worldwide groupings of left-wing Zionist organizations. The World Labour Zionist Movement, associated with the Labor Zionist tendency, is a loose association, including Avoda, Habonim Dror, Histadrut and Na'amat. The World Union of Meretz, associated with what was historically known as the Socialist Zionist tendency, is a loose association of the Israeli Meretz party, the Hashomer Hatzair Socialist Zionist youth movement, the Kibbutz Artzi Federation and the Givat Haviva research and study center. Both movements exist as factions within the World Zionist Organization, as well as regional or country-specific Zionist movements; the two roughly correspond to the interwar split between the Poale Zion Right (the tradition that led to Avoda) and the Poale Zion Left (Hashomer Hatzair, Mapam, Meretz).\n\nSouth Africa's Jewish left-wing was heavily involved in left-wing causes such as the anti-apartheid movement. The most famous member of the anti-apartheid Jewish left-wing was Helen Suzman, DBE. There were also several liberal left-wing Jewish defendants in the Rivonia Trial: Joe Slovo, Denis Goldberg, Lionel Bernstein, Bob Hepple, Arthur Goldreich, Harold Wolpe, and James Kantor.\n\nAs the Jewish working class died out in the years after the Second World War, its institutions and political movements did too. The Arbeter Ring in England, for example, came to an end in the 1950s and Jewish trade unionism in the US ceased to be a major force at that time. There are, however, still some remnants of the Jewish working class organizations left today, including the Workmen's Circle, Jewish Labor Committee, and \"The Forward\" (newspaper) in New York, the International Jewish Labor Bund in Australia, and the United Jewish People's Order in Canada.\n\nThe 1960s-1980s saw a renewal of interest among Western Jews in Jewish working class culture and the various radical traditions of the Jewish past. This led to the growth of a new sort of radical Jewish organization that was both interested in Yiddish culture, Jewish spirituality, and social justice. In the US, for example, between 1980–1992, New Jewish Agenda functioned as a national, multi-issue progressive membership organization with the mission of acting as a \"Jewish voice on the Left and a Left voice in the Jewish Community\". In 1991, Jews for Racial and Economic Justice formed to fight for \"equitable distribution of economic and cultural resources and political power\" in New York City. And in 1999, leftists broke from the LA chapter of the American Jewish Congress to form the Progressive Jewish Alliance. In Britain, the Jewish Socialists' Group and Rabbi Michael Lerner's Tikkun have similarly continued this tradition, while more recently groups like Jewdas have taken an even more eclectic and radical approach to Jewishness. In Belgium, the Union des progressistes juifs de Belgique is, since 1969, the heir of the Jewish Communist and Bundist Solidarité movement in the Belgian Resistance, embracing the Israeli refuseniks cause as well as of the undocumented immigrants in Belgium.\n\nDuring the first decade of the 2000s, the Israeli–Palestinian conflict became a defining element in the composition of the diasporic Jewish left. A new wave of Jewish organizations formed to support Palestinian causes. Groups such as Jewish Voice for Peace, Independent Jewish Voices (Canada), Independent Jewish Voices (UK) and the International Jewish Anti-Zionist Network gave renewed voice to Jewish Anti-Zionism. This perspective continues to be reflected in media outlets such as Mondoweiss and the Treyf Podcast.\n\nFollowing the 2014 Israel–Gaza conflict, many leftist Jewish organizations in the US and Canada focused on directly challenging establishment Jewish organizations such as the Jewish Federation, American Israel Public Affairs Committee, the Anti-Defamation League, and Centre for Israel and Jewish Affairs, for their support for Israel's actions during the conflict. In the US, this intra-community conflict expanded to domestic politics following the United States presidential election, 2016. Groups such as If Not Now, Jewish Voice for Peace, and Jews for Racial and Economic Justice began organizing under the banner of #JewishResistance to \"challenge institutional Jewish support for the Trump administration and affiliated white nationalists\".\n\nAccording to exit polls, 71% of American Jews voted Democrat during the 2016 US Presidential election. Over the last decade, the Jewish vote has gone to Democrats by 76–80% in each election. A large majority of American Jews also report feeling somewhat or very attached to Israel.\n\nOperating in a parliamentary governmental system based on proportional representation, left-wing political parties and blocs in Israel have been able to elect members of the Knesset with varying degrees of success. Over time, those parties have evolved, with some merging, others disappearing, and new parties arising.\n\nIsraeli left-wing parties have included:\n\nNotable figures in these parties have included: Meir Vilner, Shulamit Aloni, Uri Avnery, Yossi Beilin, Ran Cohen, Matti Peled, Amnon Rubinstein, and Yossi Sarid.\n\nBritish Jews have been influential in the left-wing politics of the United Kingdom for many years, especially in the main social democratic/socialist party, the Labour Party, but also in the socially liberal Liberal Democrats.\n\nDuring the years when the Liberal Party was Britain's main party of the left, two Jews in particular attained high office: Herbert Samuel, who led the Liberal Party from 1930–1935, and Rufus Isaacs, the only British Jew to have been created a Marquess. Other notable Liberal Jews of the 1800s and early 1900s included: Lionel de Rothschild, the first Jew to serve as an MP, Sir David Salomons, Sir Francis Goldsmid, Sir George Jessel, Arthur Cohen, The Lord Swaythling, Sir Edward Sassoon, The Lord Hore-Belisha Edwin Samuel Montagu, Ignaz Trebitsch-Lincoln, and The Lord Wandsworth.\n\nIn the early part of the 20th century, the Liberal Party gave way to the more radical and socialist Labour Party. Leonard Woolf and Hugh Franklin were among the figures influential in the early Labour Party, and Jewish MPs like Barnett Janner, Sir Percy Harris and The Lord Nathan were among the radical Liberal MPs, many of whom switched from Liberal to Labour, economists like Harold Laski and Nicholas Kaldor and intellectuals like Victor Gollancz and Karl Mannheim provided the intellectual impetus for British socialism to take hold. Prominent early Labour MPs included The Lord Silkin, who became a Minister in Clement Attlee's government, Sydney Silverman, who abolished capital punishment in Britain, and The Lord Shinwell, one of the leaders of Red Clydeside who later became Secretary of State for War.\n\nAt the end of the Second World War, the Labour Party entered government again, and several newly elected Labour MPs were Jewish, and often on the socialist left of the Party, radicalised by incidents like the Battle of Cable Street. Those MPs included Herschel Lewis Austin, Maurice Edelman, and Ian Mikardo, as well as Phil Piratin, one of only four MPs in British history to have represented the Communist Party of Great Britain. Several MPs elected in the 1940s and 1950s went on to be Ministers in Harold Wilson's governments of the 1960s and 1970s: The Lord Barnett, Edmund Dell, John Diamond, Reg Freeson, The Baroness Gaitskell, Myer Galpern, Gerald Kaufman, The Lord Lever of Manchester, Paul Rose, The Lord Segal, The Baroness Serota, The Lord Sheldon, John and Samuel Silkin, Barnett Stross, and David Weitzman. A prominent Jewish Labour politician in this era was Leo Abse, who put forward the private members' bill which decriminalised homosexuality and reformed the divorce laws in Britain. Robert Maxwell, a Labour MP during the 1964–66 Wilson government, eventually became a leading newspaper publisher when his holding company purchased Mirror Group Newspapers in 1984.\n\nIn the 1970s and 1980s, the Labour Party experienced significant turbulence with the rise of the entryist Militant tendency (a Trotskyist group led by Ted Grant), and the centre-left Social Democratic Party (SDP) breaking away and forming an Alliance with the Liberal Party (who had two Jewish MPs, The Lord Carlile of Berriew and Clement Freud), later to unite as the Liberal Democrats. One such parliamentary defector to the SDP was Neville Sandelson, and the Keynesian economist The Lord Skidelsky also defected. Those Jewish Labour MPs who stuck with the party included Harry Cohen, Alf Dubs, Millie Miller, Eric Moonman, and David Winnick.\n\nDuring the late 1980s and 1990s, with the shift away from the socialist left of the party, and during Tony Blair's leadership of the Labour Party, notable senior Jewish politicians included Peter Mandelson, one of the architects of \"New Labour\", Peter Goldsmith, Baron Goldsmith, The Lord Beecham, and The Lord Gould of Brookwood. Mandelson, party fund-raiser The Lord Levy and Jack Straw (who is of partial Jewish ancestry), were accused by Tam Dalyell, MP, of being a \"cabal of Jewish advisers\" around Blair. Several of Blair's Ministers and Labour backbenchers were Jewish or partially Jewish, including Barbara Roche, Dame Margaret Hodge, Fabian Hamilton, Louise Ellman, The Baroness Hayman, The Baroness King of Bow, and Gillian Merron. Labour donors during the 1990s and 2000s who were Jewish included David Abrahams, The Lord Bernstein of Craigweil, Richard Caring, Sir Trevor Chinn, Sir David Garrard, The Lord Gavron, Sir Emmanuel Kaye, Andrew Rosenfeld, The Lord Sainsbury of Turville, and Barry Townsley. Several of these were caught up in the Cash for Honours scandal.\n\nUnder the government of Blair's successor, Gordon Brown, brothers David Miliband and Ed Miliband became members of the Cabinet. Their father was the Marxist academic Ralph Miliband. The brothers differed in their view of the party's future direction, and they fought a bitter leadership election against each other in 2010. Ed Miliband won the election and became the first Jewish leader of the Labour Party. One of Miliband's Shadow Cabinet members, Ivan Lewis, as well as advisers David Axelrod, Arnie Graf, and The Lord Glasman are all Jewish.\n\nCurrent Jewish Labour politicians include: William Bach, The Lord Bassam of Brighton, Luciana Berger, Michael Cashman, The Lord Grabiner, Ruth Henig, The Lord Kestenbaum, Jonathan Mendelsohn, Janet Neel Cohen, Meta Ramsay, Catherine Stihler, Andrew Stone, Alan Sugar, Leslie Turnberg, and Robert Winston.\n\nSince the foundation of the Liberal Democrats, several Jews have achieved prominence: David Alliance, the aforementioned Alex Carlisle, Miranda Green, Olly Grender, Sally Hamwee, Evan Harris, Susan Kramer, Anthony Lester, Jonathan Marks, Julia Neuberger, Monroe Palmer, Paul Strasburger, and Lynne Featherstone, who became a Minister in the Coalition government 2010-15.\n\n"}
{"id": "24280039", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24280039", "title": "Kshama", "text": "Kshama\n\nKshama (, \"\") is a Sanskrit word that relates to the acts of patience, releasing time and functioning in the now. Macdonell defines it as: \"patience, forbearance, indulgence (towards...)\". kshama word has a rich in meaning. It simply means forgiveness or forbearance. Kshama also indicates extreme patience and an more capacity to forget as also forgive.\n\nThe concept of Kshama forms one of the Ten Traditional Yamas, or restraints, that are codified in numerous scriptures including the Shandilya and Varaha Upanishads and the Hatha Yoga Pradipika by Gorakshanatha.\n\nIt is sometimes used as a female given name.\n\n"}
{"id": "17933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17933", "title": "Latency (engineering)", "text": "Latency (engineering)\n\nLatency is a time interval between the stimulation and response, or, from a more general point of view, a time delay between the cause and the effect of some physical change in the system being observed. Latency is physically a consequence of the limited velocity with which any physical interaction can propagate. The magnitude of this velocity is always less than or equal to the speed of light. Therefore, every physical system will experience some sort of latency, regardless of the nature of stimulation that it has been exposed to.\n\nThe precise definition of latency depends on the system being observed and the nature of stimulation. In communications, the lower limit of latency is determined by the medium being used for communications. In reliable two-way communication systems, latency limits the maximum rate that information can be transmitted, as there is often a limit on the amount of information that is \"in-flight\" at any one moment. In the field of human–machine interaction, perceptible latency has a strong effect on user satisfaction and usability.\n\nOnline games are sensitive to latency since fast response times to new events occurring during a game session are rewarded while slow response times may carry penalties. Lag is the term used to describe latency in gaming. Due to a delay in transmission of game events, a player with a high latency internet connection may show slow responses in spite of appropriate reaction time. This gives players with low latency connections a technical advantage.\n\nMinimizing latency is of interest in the capital markets, particularly where algorithmic trading is used to process market updates and turn around orders within milliseconds. Low-latency trading occurs on the networks used by financial institutions to connect to stock exchanges and electronic communication networks (ECNs) to execute financial transactions. Joel Hasbrouck and Gideon Saar (2011) measure latency based on three components: the time it takes for information to reach the trader, execution of the trader’s algorithms to analyze the information and decide a course of action, and the generated action to reach the exchange and get implemented. Hasbrouck and Saar contrast this with the way in which latencies are measured by many trading venues who use much more narrow definitions, such as, the processing delay measured from the entry of the order (at the vendor’s computer) to the transmission of an acknowledgement (from the vendor’s computer). Electronic trading now makes up 60% to 70% of the daily volume on the NYSE and algorithmic trading close to 35%. Trading using computers has developed to the point where millisecond improvements in network speeds offer a competitive advantage for financial institutions.\n\nNetwork latency in a packet-switched network is measured as either one-way (the time from the source sending a packet to the destination receiving it), or round-trip delay time (the one-way latency from source to destination plus the one-way latency from the destination back to the source). Round-trip latency is more often quoted, because it can be measured from a single point. Note that round trip latency excludes the amount of time that a destination system spends processing the packet. Many software platforms provide a service called ping that can be used to measure round-trip latency. Ping uses the Internet Control Message Protocol (ICMP) \"echo request\" which causes the recipient to send the received packet as an immediate response, thus it provides a rough way of measuring round-trip delay time. Ping cannot perform accurate measurements, principally because ICMP is intended only for diagnostic or control purposes, and differs from real communication protocols such as TCP. Furthermore, routers and internet service providers might apply different traffic shaping policies to different protocols. For more accurate measurements it is better to use specific software, for example: hping, Netperf or Iperf.\n\nHowever, in a non-trivial network, a typical packet will be forwarded over multiple links and gateways, each of which will not begin to forward the packet until it has been completely received. In such a network, the minimal latency is the sum of the transmission delay of each link, plus the forwarding latency of each gateway. In practice, minimal latency also includes queuing and processing delays. Queuing delay occurs when a gateway receives multiple packets from different sources heading towards the same destination. Since typically only one packet can be transmitted at a time, some of the packets must queue for transmission, incurring additional delay. Processing delays are incurred while a gateway determines what to do with a newly received packet. Bufferbloat can also cause increased latency that is an order of magnitude or more. The combination of propagation, serialization, queuing, and processing delays often produces a complex and variable network latency profile.\n\nLatency limits total throughput in reliable two-way communication systems as described by the bandwidth-delay product.\n\nLatency in fiber optics is largely a function of the speed of light, which is 299,792,458 meters/second in vacuum. This would equate to a latency of 3.33 µs for every kilometer of path length. The index of refraction of most fibre optic cables is about 1.5, meaning that light travels about 1.5 times as fast in a vacuum as it does in the cable. This works out to about 5.0 µs of latency for every kilometer. In shorter metro networks, higher latency can be experienced due to extra distance in building risers and cross-connects. To calculate latency of a connection, one has to know the distance traveled by the fibre, which is rarely a straight line, since it has to traverse geographic contours and obstacles, such as roads and railway tracks, as well as other rights-of-way. \n\nDue to imperfections in the fibre, light degrades as it is transmitted through it. For distances of greater than 100 kilometers, amplifiers or regenerators are deployed. Latency introduced by these components needs to be taken into account.\n\nThis is illustrated when a news presenter in a studio talks with a reporter in a distant place via a geostationary communication satellite. The signal travels from the newsreader up to and down from the satellite to the reporter and then the reply from the reporter does the same, resulting in four satellite hops incurring a latency on the order of a half second, not including the typically smaller latencies inside the communications equipment.\n\nLow Earth orbit is sometimes used to cut this delay, at the expense of more complicated satellite tracking on the ground and requiring more satellites in the satellite constellation to ensure continuous coverage.\n\nAudio latency is the delay between when an audio signal enters and when it emerges from a system. Potential contributors to latency in an audio system include analog-to-digital conversion, buffering, digital signal processing, transmission time, digital-to-analog conversion and the speed of sound in air.\n\nAny individual workflow within a system of workflows can be subject to some type of operational latency. It may even be the case that an individual system may have more than one type of latency, depending on the type of participant or goal-seeking behavior. This is best illustrated by the following two examples involving air travel.\n\nFrom the point of view of a passenger, latency can be described as follows. Suppose John Doe flies from London to New York. The latency of his trip is the time it takes him to go from his house in England to the hotel he is staying at in New York. This is independent of the throughput of the London-New York air link – whether there were 100 passengers a day making the trip or 10000, the latency of the trip would remain the same.\n\nFrom the point of view of flight operations personnel, latency can be entirely different. Consider the staff at the London and New York airports. Only a limited number of planes are able to make the transatlantic journey, so when one lands they must prepare it for the return trip as quickly as possible. It might take, for example:\n\nAssuming the above are done one after another, minimum plane turnaround time is:\n\nHowever, cleaning, refueling and loading the cargo can be done at the same time. Passengers can be loaded after cleaning is complete. The reduced latency, then, is:\n\nThe people involved in the turnaround are interested only in the time it takes for their individual tasks. When all of the tasks are done at the same time, however, it is possible to reduce the latency to the length of the longest task. If some steps have prerequisites, it becomes more difficult to perform all steps in parallel. In the example above, the requirement to clean the plane before loading passengers results in a minimum latency longer than any single task.\n\nAny mechanical process encounters limitations modeled by Newtonian physics. The behavior of disk drives provides an example of mechanical latency. Here, it is the time needed for the data encoded on a platter to rotate from its current position to a position adjacent to the read-write head as well as the seek time required for the actuator arm for the read-write head to be positioned above the appropriate track. This is also known as rotational latency and seek time since the basic term latency is also applied to the time required by a computer's electronics and software to perform polling, interrupts, and direct memory access.\n\nComputers run sets of instructions called a process. In operating systems, the execution of the process can be postponed if other processes are also executing. In addition, the operating system can schedule when to perform the action that the process is commanding. For example, suppose a process commands that a computer card's voltage output be set high-low-high-low and so on at a rate of 1000 Hz. The operating system may choose to adjust the scheduling of each transition (high-low or low-high) based on an internal clock. The latency is the delay between the process instruction commanding the transition and the hardware actually transitioning the voltage from high to low or low to high.\n\nOn Microsoft Windows, it appears that the timing of commands to hardware is not exact. Empirical data suggest that Windows (using the Windows sleep timer which accepts millisecond sleep times) will schedule on a 1024 Hz clock and will delay 24 of 1024 transitions per second to make an average of 1000 Hz for the update rate. This can have serious ramifications for discrete-time algorithms that rely on fairly consistent timing between updates such as those found in control theory. The sleep function or similar windows API were at no point designed for accurate timing purposes. Certain multimedia-oriented API routines like codice_1 and its siblings provide better timing consistency. However, consumer- and server-grade Windows ( those based on NT kernel) were not to be real-time operating systems. Drastically more accurate timings could be achieved by using dedicated hardware extensions and control-loop cards.\n\nLinux may have the same problems with scheduling of hardware I/O. The problem in Linux is mitigated by support for posix real-time extensions, and the possibility of using a kernel with the PREEMPT_RT patch applied.\n\nOn embedded systems, the real-time execution of instructions is often supported by the low-level embedded operating system.\n\nIn simulation applications, 'latency' refers to the time delay, normally measured in milliseconds (1/1,000 sec), between initial input and an output clearly discernible to the simulator trainee or simulator subject. Latency is sometimes also called transport delay.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26395922", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26395922", "title": "Life imitating art", "text": "Life imitating art\n\nAnti-mimesis is a philosophical position that holds the direct opposite of Aristotelian mimesis. Its most notable proponent is Oscar Wilde, who opined in his 1889 essay \"The Decay of Lying\" that, \"Life imitates Art far more than Art imitates Life\". In the essay, written as a Platonic dialogue, Wilde holds that anti-mimesis \"results not merely from Life's imitative instinct, but from the fact that the self-conscious aim of Life is to find expression, and that Art offers it certain beautiful forms through which it may realise that energy.\"\n\nWhat is found in life and nature is not what is really there, but is that which artists have taught people to find there, through art. As in an example posited by Wilde, although there has been fog in London for centuries, one notices the beauty and wonder of the fog because \"poets and painters have taught the loveliness of such effects...They did not exist till Art had invented them.\"\n\nMcGrath places the antimimetic philosophy in a tradition of Irish writing, including Wilde and writers such as Synge and Joyce in a group that \"elevate blarney (in the form of linguistic idealism) to aesthetic and philosophical distinction\", noting that Terry Eagleton observes an even longer tradition that stretches \"as far back in Irish thought as the ninth-century theology of John Scottus Eriugena\" and \"the fantastic hyperbole of the ancient sagas\". Wilde's antimimetic idealism, specifically, McGrath describes to be part of the late nineteenth century debate between Romanticism and Realism. Wilde's antimimetic philosophy has also had influence on later Irish writers, including Brian Friel.\n\nHalliwell asserts that the idea that life imitates art derives from classical notions that can be traced as far back as the writings of Aristophanes of Byzantium, and does not negate mimesis but rather \"displace[s] its purpose onto the artlike fashioning of life itself\". Halliwell draws a parallel between Wilde's philosophy and Aristophanes' famous question about the comedies written by Menander: \"O Menander and Life! Which of you took the other as your model?\", noting, however, that Aristophanes was a precursor to Wilde, and not necessarily espousing the positions that Wilde was later to propound.\n\nIn George Bernard Shaw's preface to \"Three Plays\" he wrote, \"I have noticed that when a certain type of feature appears in painting and is admired as beautiful, it presently becomes common in nature; so that the Beatrices and Francescas in the picture galleries of one generation come to life as the parlor-maids and waitresses of the next.\" He stated that he created the aristocratic characters in Cashel Byron's Profession as unrealistically priggish even without his later understanding that \"the real world does not exist...men and women are made by their own fancies in the image of the imaginary creatures in my youthful fictions, only much stupider.\" Shaw, however, disagreed with Wilde on some points. He considered most attempts by life to imitate art to be reprehensible, in part because the art that people generally chose to imitate was idealistic and romanticized.\n"}
{"id": "2451216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2451216", "title": "Living Garment of God", "text": "Living Garment of God\n\nLiving Garment of God, Living Nature, so called by Goethe, nature being viewed by him as the garment, or vesture, with which God invests himself so as to reveal and impart Himself to man.\n"}
{"id": "96558", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96558", "title": "Maxwell's demon", "text": "Maxwell's demon\n\nIn the philosophy of thermal and statistical physics, Maxwell's demon is a thought experiment created by the physicist James Clerk Maxwell in 1867 in which he suggested how the second law of thermodynamics might hypothetically be violated. In the thought experiment, a demon controls a small door between two chambers of gas. As individual gas molecules approach the door, the demon quickly opens and shuts the door so that only fast molecules are passed into one of the chambers, while only slow molecules are passed into the other. Because faster molecules are hotter, the demon's behaviour causes one chamber to warm up and the other to cool down, thereby decreasing entropy and violating the second law of thermodynamics. This thought experiment has provoked debate and theoretical work on the relation between thermodynamics and information theory extending to the present day, with a number of scientists arguing that theoretical considerations rule out any practical device violating the second law in this way.\n\nThe thought experiment first appeared in a letter Maxwell wrote to Peter Guthrie Tait on 11 December 1867. It appeared again in a letter to John William Strutt in 1871, before it was presented to the public in Maxwell's 1872 book on thermodynamics titled \"Theory of Heat\".\n\nIn his letters and books, Maxwell described the agent opening the door between the chambers as a \"finite being\". William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) was the first to use the word \"demon\" for Maxwell's concept, in the journal \"Nature\" in 1874, and implied that he intended the mediating, rather than malevolent, connotation of the word.\n\nThe second law of thermodynamics ensures (through statistical probability) that two bodies of different temperature, when brought into contact with each other and isolated from the rest of the Universe, will evolve to a thermodynamic equilibrium in which both bodies have approximately the same temperature. The second law is also expressed as the assertion that in an isolated system, entropy never decreases.\n\nMaxwell conceived a thought experiment as a way of furthering the understanding of the second law. His description of the experiment is as follows:\n\nIn other words, Maxwell imagines one container divided into two parts, \"A\" and \"B\". Both parts are filled with the same gas at equal temperatures and placed next to each other. Observing the molecules on both sides, an imaginary demon guards a trapdoor between the two parts. When a faster-than-average molecule from \"A\" flies towards the trapdoor, the demon opens it, and the molecule will fly from \"A\" to \"B\". Likewise, when a slower-than-average molecule from \"B\" flies towards the trapdoor, the demon will let it pass from \"B\" to \"A\". The average speed of the molecules in \"B\" will have increased while in \"A\" they will have slowed down on average. Since average molecular speed corresponds to temperature, the temperature decreases in \"A\" and increases in \"B\", contrary to the second law of thermodynamics. A heat engine operating between the thermal reservoirs \"A\" and \"B\" could extract useful work from this temperature difference.\n\nThe demon must allow molecules to pass in both directions in order to produce only a temperature difference; one-way passage only of faster-than-average molecules from \"A\" to \"B\" will cause higher temperature and pressure to develop on the \"B\" side.\n\nSeveral physicists have presented calculations that show that the second law of thermodynamics will not actually be violated, if a more complete analysis is made of the whole system including the demon. The essence of the physical argument is to show, by calculation, that any demon must \"generate\" more entropy segregating the molecules than it could ever eliminate by the method described. That is, it would take more thermodynamic work to gauge the speed of the molecules and selectively allow them to pass through the opening between \"A\" and \"B\" than the amount of energy gained by the difference of temperature caused by this.\n\nOne of the most famous responses to this question was suggested in 1929 by Leó Szilárd, and later by Léon Brillouin. Szilárd pointed out that a real-life Maxwell's demon would need to have some means of measuring molecular speed, and that the act of acquiring information would require an expenditure of energy. Since the demon and the gas are interacting, we must consider the total entropy of the gas and the demon combined. The expenditure of energy by the demon will cause an increase in the entropy of the demon, which will be larger than the lowering of the entropy of the gas.\n\nIn 1960, Rolf Landauer raised an exception to this argument. He realized that some measuring processes need not increase thermodynamic entropy as long as they were thermodynamically reversible. He suggested these \"reversible\" measurements could be used to sort the molecules, violating the Second Law. However, due to the connection between thermodynamic entropy and information entropy, this also meant that the recorded measurement must not be erased. In other words, to determine whether to let a molecule through, the demon must acquire information about the state of the molecule and either discard it or store it. Discarding it leads to immediate increase in entropy but the demon cannot store it indefinitely: In 1982, Charles Bennett showed that, however well prepared, eventually the demon will run out of information storage space and must begin to erase the information it has previously gathered. Erasing information is a thermodynamically irreversible process that increases the entropy of a system. Although Bennett had reached the same conclusion as Szilard’s 1929 paper, that a Maxwellian demon could not violate the second law because entropy would be created, he had reached it for different reasons. Regarding Landauer's principle, the minimum energy dissipated by deleting information was experimentally measured by Eric Lutz \"et al.\" in 2012. Furthermore, Lutz \"et al.\" confirmed that in order to approach the Landauer's limit, the system must asymptotically approach zero processing speed.\n\nJohn Earman and John D. Norton have argued that Szilárd and Landauer's explanations of Maxwell's demon begin by assuming that the second law of thermodynamics cannot be violated by the demon, and derive further properties of the demon from this assumption, including the necessity of consuming energy when erasing information, etc. It would therefore be circular to invoke these derived properties to defend the second law from the demonic argument. Bennett later acknowledged the validity of Earman and Norton's argument, while maintaining that Landauer's principle explains the mechanism by which real systems do not violate the second law of thermodynamics.\n\nAlthough the argument by Landauer and Bennett only answers the consistency between the second law of thermodynamics and the whole cyclic process of the entire system of a Szilard engine (a composite system of the engine and the demon), a recent approach based on the non-equilibrium thermodynamics for small fluctuating systems has provided deeper insight on each information process with each subsystem. From this viewpoint, the measurement process is regarded as a process where the correlation (mutual information) between the engine and the demon increases, and the feedback process is regarded as a process where the correlation decreases. If the correlation changes, thermodynamic relations as the second law of thermodynamics and the fluctuation theorem for each subsystem should be modified, and for the case of external control a second-law like inequality and a generalized fluctuation theorem with mutual information are satisfied. These relations suggest that we need extra thermodynamic cost to increase correlation (measurement case), and in contrast we can apparently violate the second law up to the consumption of correlation (feedback case). For more general information processes including biological information processing, both inequality and equality with mutual information hold.\n\nReal-life versions of Maxwellian demons occur, but all such \"real demons\" have their entropy-lowering effects duly balanced by increase of entropy elsewhere. Molecular-sized mechanisms are no longer found only in biology; they are also the subject of the emerging field of nanotechnology. Single-atom traps used by particle physicists allow an experimenter to control the state of individual quanta in a way similar to Maxwell's demon.\n\nIf hypothetical mirror matter exists, Zurab Silagadze proposes that demons can be envisaged, \"which can act like perpetuum mobiles of the second kind: extract heat energy from only one reservoir, use it to do work and be isolated from the rest of ordinary world. Yet the Second Law is not violated because the demons pay their entropy cost in the hidden (mirror) sector of the world by emitting mirror photons.\"\n\nIn the February 2007 issue of \"Nature\", David Leigh, a professor at the University of Edinburgh, announced the creation of a nano-device based on the Brownian ratchet popularized by Richard Feynman. Leigh's device is able to drive a chemical system out of equilibrium, but it must be powered by an external source (light in this case) and therefore does not violate thermodynamics.\n\nPreviously, researchers including Nobel Prize winner Fraser Stoddart, created ring-shaped molecules called rotaxanes which could be placed on an axle connecting two sites, \"A\" and \"B\". Particles from either site would bump into the ring and move it from end to end. If a large collection of these devices were placed in a system, half of the devices had the ring at site \"A\" and half at \"B\", at any given moment in time.\n\nLeigh made a minor change to the axle so that if a light is shone on the device, the center of the axle will thicken, restricting the motion of the ring. It only keeps the ring from moving, however, if it is at \"A\". Over time, therefore, the rings will be bumped from \"B\" to \"A\" and get stuck there, creating an imbalance in the system. In his experiments, Leigh was able to take a pot of \"billions of these devices\" from 50:50 equilibrium to a 70:30 imbalance within a few minutes.\n\nIn 2009 Mark G. Raizen developed a laser atomic cooling technique which realizes the process Maxwell envisioned of sorting individual atoms in a gas into different containers based on their energy. The new concept is a one-way wall for atoms or molecules that allows them to move in one direction, but not go back. The operation of the one-way wall relies on an irreversible atomic and molecular process of absorption of a photon at a specific wavelength, followed by spontaneous emission to a different internal state. The irreversible process is coupled to a conservative force created by magnetic fields and/or light. Raizen and collaborators proposed using the one-way wall in order to reduce the entropy of an ensemble of atoms. In parallel, Gonzalo Muga and Andreas Ruschhaupt independently developed a similar concept. Their \"atom diode\" was not proposed for cooling, but rather for regulating the flow of atoms. The Raizen Group demonstrated significant cooling of atoms with the one-way wall in a series of experiments in 2008. Subsequently, the operation of a one-way wall for atoms was demonstrated by Daniel Steck and collaborators later in 2008. Their experiment was based on the 2005 scheme for the one-way wall, and was not used for cooling. The cooling method realized by the Raizen Group was called \"single-photon cooling\", because only one photon on average is required in order to bring an atom to near-rest. This is in contrast to other laser cooling techniques which use the momentum of the photon and require a two-level cycling transition.\n\nIn 2006, Raizen, Muga, and Ruschhaupt showed in a theoretical paper that as each atom crosses the one-way wall, it scatters one photon, and information is provided about the turning point and hence the energy of that particle. The entropy increase of the radiation field scattered from a directional laser into a random direction is exactly balanced by the entropy reduction of the atoms as they are trapped by the one-way wall.\n\nThis technique is widely described as a \"Maxwell's demon\" because it realizes Maxwell's process of creating a temperature difference by sorting high and low energy atoms into different containers. However, scientists have pointed out that it is not a true Maxwell's demon in the sense that it does not violate the second law of thermodynamics; it does not result in a net decrease in entropy and cannot be used to produce useful energy. This is because the process requires more energy from the laser beams than could be produced by the temperature difference generated. The atoms absorb low entropy photons from the laser beam and emit them in a random direction, thus increasing the entropy of the environment.\n\nIn 2014, Pekola et al. demonstrated an experimental realization of a Szilárd engine. Only a year later and based on an earlier theoretical proposal, the same group presented the first experimental realization of an autonomous Maxwell’s demon, which extracts microscopic information from a system and reduces its entropy by applying feedback. The demon is based on two capacitively coupled single-electron devices, both integrated on the same electronic circuit. The operation of the demon is directly observed as a temperature drop in the system, with a simultaneous temperature rise in the demon arising from the thermodynamic cost of generating the mutual information. In 2016, Pekola et al. demonstrated a proof-of-principle of an autonomous demon in coupled single-electron circuits, showing a way how to cool critical elements in a circuit with information as a fuel. Pekola et al. have also proposed that a simple qubit circuit, e.g., made of a superconducting circuit, could provide a basis to study a quantum Szilard's engine.\n\nDaemons in computing, generally processes that run on servers to respond to users, are named for Maxwell's demon.\n\nHistorian Henry Brooks Adams in his manuscript \"The Rule of Phase Applied to History\" attempted to use Maxwell's demon as a historical metaphor, though he misunderstood and misapplied the original principle. Adams interpreted history as a process moving towards \"equilibrium\", but he saw militaristic nations (he felt Germany pre-eminent in this class) as tending to reverse this process, a Maxwell's demon of history. Adams made many attempts to respond to the criticism of his formulation from his scientific colleagues, but the work remained incomplete at Adams' death in 1918. It was only published posthumously.\n\nSociologist Pierre Bourdieu incorporated Maxwell's demon into his work, \"Raisons Pratiques\" as a metaphor for the socioeconomic inequality among students, as maintained by the school system, the economy, and families.\n\nA machine powered by Maxwell's demon plays a role in Thomas Pynchon's novel \"The Crying of Lot 49\".\n\nThe demon is mentioned several times in \"The Cyberiad\", a series of short stories by the noted science fiction writer Stanisław Lem. In the book the demon appears both in its original form and in a modified form where it uses its knowledge of all particles in the box in order to surmise general (but unfocused and random) facts about the rest of the universe.\n\nThe demon is implied in Larry Niven's short story \"Unfinished Story Nr 2\", within the context of a world of magic, depending on local concentrations of 'manna', a prerequirement for magic such that magic is no longer possible after manna has been locally depleted.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4100885", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4100885", "title": "Meaning (linguistics)", "text": "Meaning (linguistics)\n\nIn linguistics, meaning is the information or concepts that a sender intends to convey, or does convey, in communication with a receiver.\n\nAmbiguity means confusion about what is conveyed, since the current context may lead to different interpretations of meaning. Many words in many languages have multiple definitions. Ambiguity is an effect of a rupture of the rule of identity in the context of the exchange of information. Particularly the \"sender\" may be physically absent, and the contexts explicitly divergent, such as will be the case when the receptor is a reader and the \"sender\" was a writer.\n\nPragmatics is the study of how context affects meaning. The two primary forms of context important to pragmatics are linguistic context and situation context.\n\nLinguistic context is how meaning is understood without relying on intent and assumptions. In applied pragmatics, for example, meaning is formed through sensory experiences, even though sensory stimulus cannot be easily articulated in language or signs. Pragmatics, then, reveals that meaning is both something affected by and affecting the world. Meaning is something contextual with respect to language and the world, and is also something active toward other meanings and the world. Linguistic context becomes important when looking at particular linguistic problems such as that of pronouns.\n\nSituation context refers to every non-linguistic factor that affects the meaning of a phrase. An example of situation context can be seen in the phrase \"it's cold in here\", which can either be a simple statement of fact or a request to turn up the heat, depending on, among other things, whether or not it is believed to be in the listener's power to affect the temperature.\n\nThe relationship between words and their referents is called semantic. Semantics is the study of how meaning is conveyed through signs and language. Understanding how facial expressions, body language, and tone affect meaning, and how words, phrases, sentences, and punctuation relate to meaning are examples. Various subgroups of semantics are studied within the fields of linguistics, logic and computing. For example, linguistic semantics includes the history of how words have been used in the past; logical semantics includes how people mean and refer in terms of likely intent and assumptions.\n\nDuring the 19th century, John Stuart Mill defined semantic meaning with the words \"denotation\" and \"connotation\". A denotation is the literal or primary meaning of a word. Connotations are ideas or feelings that a word invokes for a person in addition to its literal or primary meaning.\n\nThe original use of \"meaning\" as understood early in the 20th century occurred through Lady Welby, after her daughter translated the term \"semantics\" from French.\n\nLanguages allow information to be conveyed even when the specific words used are not known by the reader or listener. People connect words with meaning and use words to refer to concepts. A person's intentions affect what is meant. \"Meaning\" (in English) as \"intent\" harkens back to the Anglo-Saxons and is associated today still, with the German verb \"meinen\" as to think or intend.\n\nFerdinand de Saussure, in founding semiology, his original subset of the semiotics, started describing language in terms of \"Signs\", dividing those \"signs\" in turn into \"signifieds\" and \"signifiers\". The signifier is the perceptive side of a sign, thus the sound form in case of oral language. The signified is the signification (semantic) side, the mental construction or image associated with the sound, by either a speaker and hearer. A sign, then, is essentially a relationship between signified and signifier.\n\nSigns are essentially conventional, as any foreign language student is well aware: there is no reason that \"bat\" couldn't mean \"body of water\" or even \"that bust of Napoleon over there\". Since the choice of signifiers is ultimately arbitrary, the meaning cannot somehow be \"in\" the signifier. Saussure instead defers meaning to the sign itself: meaning is ultimately the same thing as the sign, and \"meaning\" means that relationship is between signified and signifier. All meaning is both within us and communal, thus cultural. Signs \"mean\" by reference to our internal lexicon and grammar, and despite there being a matter of convention, so the communal part, signs also, because of the individual's uniqueness, can mean something only to the individual (what \"red\" means to one person may not be what \"red\" means to another, either in absolute value, or by including what's suggested by the context). However, while meanings carried by one given set of signifiers may vary to some extent from individual to individual, only those meanings that stay within a boundary are seen by other speakers of the language to belong to the language: if one were to refer to smells as red, most other speakers would assume the person is talking nonsense (although statements like this are common among people who experience synesthesia, or in poetry).\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13202316", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13202316", "title": "Near-semiring", "text": "Near-semiring\n\nIn mathematics, a near-semiring (also \"seminearring\") is an algebraic structure more general than a near-ring or a semiring. Near-semirings arise naturally from functions on monoids.\n\nA near-semiring is a set \"S\" with two binary operations \"+\" and \"·\", and a constant 0 such that (\"S\"; +; 0) is a monoid (not necessarily commutative), (\"S\"; ·) is a semigroup, these structures are related by one (right or left) distributive law, and accordingly the 0 is one (right or left, respectively) side absorbing element.\n\nFormally, an algebraic structure (\"S\"; +, ·, 0) is said to be a near-semiring if it satisfies the following axioms:\n\n\nNear-semirings are a common abstraction of semirings and near-rings [Golan, 1999; Pilz, 1983]. The standard examples of near-semirings are typically of the form \"M\"(Г), the set of all mappings on a monoid (Г; +, 0), equipped with composition of mappings, pointwise addition of mappings, and the constantly 0 function. Subsets of \"M\"(Г) closed under the operations provide further examples of near-semirings. Another example is the ordinals under the usual operations of ordinal arithmetic (here Clause 3 should be replaced with its symmetric form \"c\" · (\"a\" + \"b\") = \"c\" · \"a\" + \"c\" · \"b\". Strictly speaking, the class of all ordinals is not a set, so the above example should be more appropriately called a \"class near-semiring\". We get a near-semiring in the standard sense if we restrict to those ordinals strictly less than some multiplicatively indecomposable ordinal.\n\n"}
{"id": "24231623", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24231623", "title": "Olisa Agbakoba", "text": "Olisa Agbakoba\n\nOlisa Agbakoba is a Nigerian human rights activist, maritime lawyer and former President of Nigerian Bar Association.\n\nOlisa Agbakoba was born on 29 May 1953 to Chief Justice Godfrey Ubaka and Mrs Phina Agbakoba in Jos. He later moved to Onitsha in 1965, two years before the Nigerian civil war. He attended Government Primary School, Jos from 1959 to 1960, Hillcrest School, Jos; 1961, Government Primary School Jos, 1962 1963; Zixton Public School Ozubulu in 1964 and Christ the King College, Onitsha between 1966 and 1967.\n\nAgbakoba also attended College of Immaculate Conception in Enugu from 1970 to 1972, Government College in Ughelli in 1973, University of Nigeria, Nsukka from 1973 to 1977, Nigerian Law School in Lagos in 1978 and London School of Economics & Political Science from 1979 to 1980.\n\nHe holds an LLB (Hons) of the University of Nigeria, BL of the Nigerian Law School and LLM (1980) of the University of London.\n\nFresh out of law school, he served as a research fellow in the Nigerian Institute of International Affairs' (NIIA) Law and Intelligence Department. Agbakoba left NIIA after a year and formed his own law firm, Olisa Agbakoba and Associates, which specializes in commercial and maritime law. He has also been a key leader in the country's pro-democratic movement, and is the President of AfroNet, an international NGO dedicated to furthering the human rights cause. He is also a Principal Partner and founder of Human Rights Law Services (HURILAWS) an NGO that specializes in advocacy and law.\n\nAside from human rights, his work in maritime law in Nigeria has been profound. He is the founder and first president of the Nigerian Shipping Chamber of Commerce (NCS).\n\nOlisa Agbakoba, is the former president of the Nigerian Bar Association from 2006 to 2008 and a founding partner of Olisa Agbakoba and Associates, a leading maritime specialist law firm in Lagos. He is also the founder of Nigeria's foremost human rights organization, the Civil Liberties Organisation (CLO). He became known through his work in human rights and democracy movement in Nigeria. He was also the founder of United Action for Democracy and the Zambian pan-African human rights organization AfroNet. He was a defender for the Civil Rights activist, Ken Saro-Wiwa who was executed and was arrested several times because of his pro - democratic activities.\n\nIn 1990, he was honoured with Roger Baldwin Medal for Civil Liberties. Also in 1993, he was honoured with the Human Rights Award of the German Association of Judges and in 1996 he was given the Aachen Peace Award.\n\nOther awards and honours include the receipt of the 15 Great Legal Practitioners of Distinction in Nigeria (1993), \"Vanguard\"s 40 Outstanding Young Nigerians Award (1993), Fellow and award recipient, Institute of Administrative Management of Nigeria, Co-director, British Council Conference on Managing Human Rights, Abuja, Nigeria, the International Human Rights Award of the American Bar Association, in recognition of extraordinary contributions to the causes of Human Rights, the Rule of Law and Promotion of Access to Justice (1996), Dr. Kwame Nkrumah African Leadership awards in 2006 and FRA Williams Legal Practitioner of the year 2006 amongst others.\n\nAmongst his major publications are Federal High Court Practice Manaul (published by LexisNexis, South Africa) Maritime Newsletter Volumes one and two; Manual on Election Petition in Nigeria; Maritime Cabotage in Nigeria; Bankruptcy Proceedings in Nigeria; Development Law Books (in three volumes; Towards A People Constitution in Nigeria; Transcending the Wall: A manual for Prisoners Reform. Others are: The Legal basis of the organization of African Unity Force in the Chad; Journal of International Law, Nigerian Institute of International Affairs 1981; Journal of Human Rights Law and Practice: Nigeria's State Security (detention of persons) Decree No 2 of 1984; Exposing the Myth of Judicial Impotence with Tunde Fagbohunlu (1991), Incursions into the Legal Profession, the way out speech given at the conference on the reform of civil adjudication, Lagos, December 1995; The Statute of Limitation in Admiralty Proceedings: A Case for Fresh Initiatives in Maritime Laws and Reforms in Marine Insurance Law, among many others.\n\nOlisa Agbakoba is married to Lilian Agbakoba, who is also a lawyer by profession, has three daughters and six grandchildren and lives in Lagos.\n"}
{"id": "32786445", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32786445", "title": "Parentification", "text": "Parentification\n\nParentification is the process of role reversal whereby a child is obliged to act as parent to their \"own\" parent. In extreme cases, the child is used to fill the void of the alienating parent's emotional life.\n\nTwo distinct modes of parentification have been identified technically: instrumental parentification and emotional parentification. Instrumental parentification involves the child completing physical tasks for the family, such as looking after a sick relative, paying bills, or providing assistance to younger siblings that would normally be provided by a parent. Emotional parentification occurs when a child or adolescent must take on the role of a confidant or mediator for (or between) parents or family members.\n\nMelitta Schmideberg noted in 1948 how emotional deprivation could lead parents to treat their children (unconsciously) as substitute parent figures. \"Spousification\" and \"parental child\" (Minuchin) offered alternative concepts exploring the same phenomenon; while the theme of intergenerational continuity in such violations of personal boundaries was further examined. Eric Berne touched on the dangers of parents and children having a symmetrical, rather than asymmetrical relationship, as when an absent spouse is replaced by the eldest child; and Virginia Satir wrote of \"the role-function discrepancy...where the son gets into a head-of-the-family role, commonly that of the father\".\n\nObject relations theory highlighted how the child's false self is called into being when it is forced prematurely to take excessive care of the parental object; and John Bowlby looked at what he called \"compulsive caregiving\" among the anxiously attached, as a result of a parent inverting the normal relationship and pressuring the child to be an attachment figure for them.\n\nAll such aspects of disturbed and inverted parenting patterns have been drawn under the umbrella of the wider phenomenon of parentification – with the result (critics suggest) that on occasion \"ironically the concept of parentification has...been as over-burdened as the child it often describes\".\n\nFor practical reasons, elder children are generally chosen for the familial \"parental\" role – very often the first-born children who were put in the anomalous role. However, gender considerations mean that sometimes the eldest boy or eldest girl was selected, even if they are not the oldest child overall, for such reasons as the preference to match the sex of the missing parent.\n\nThus where there is a disabled child in the family to be cared for, \"older siblings, especially girls, are at the greatest risk of parentification\"; where a father-figure is missing, it may be the eldest son who is forced to take on his father's responsibilities, without ever obtaining the autonomy that normally accompanies such adult roles.\n\nAlternatively a widower may put a daughter into the social and emotional role of his deceased wife – \"spousification\"; or a mother can oblige her daughter to play the caring role, in a betrayal of the child's normal expectation of love and care.\n\nNarcissistic parentification occurs when a child is forced to take on the parent's idealised projection, something which encourages a compulsive perfectionism in the child at the expense of their natural development. In a kind of pseudo-identification, the child is induced by any and all means to take on the characteristics of the parental ego ideal – a pattern that has been detected in western culture since Homer's description of the character of Achilles.\n\nThe almost inevitable byproduct of parentification is losing one's own childhood. In destructive parentification, the child in question takes on excessive responsibility in the family, without their caretaking being acknowledged and supported by others: by adopting the role of parental care-giver, the child loses their real place in the family unit and is left lonely and unsure. In extreme instances, there may be what has been called a kind of disembodiment, a narcissistic wound that threatens one's basic self-identity.\n\nIn later life, parentified children often experience anxiety over abandonment and loss, and demonstrate difficulty handling rejection and disappointment within interpersonal relationships. \n\nHowever, not all results of parentification may be negative. Some studies have hypothesized that when a child is the subject of parentification, it might sometimes result in the child, later in life, having greater psychological resilience, more individuation, a clearer sense of self, and more secure attachment styles during adulthood. These characteristics may be because the person had to adapt to changes and take on responsibilities. Crosscultural studies also point to the widespread nature of the practice of parentification, and indicate that normal as well as pathological aspects of parentification need to be taken into account.\n\n\n\"The Tale of Genji\" tells that for \"Kaoru's mother...her son's visits were her chief pleasure. Sometimes he almost seemed more like a father than a son – a fact which he was aware of and thought rather sad\".\n\nCharles Dickens' \"Angel in the house\" characters, particularly Agnes Wickfield in \"David Copperfield\", are parentified children. Agnes is forced to be the parent of her alcoholic father and seems to strive for perfection as a means of reaching the \"ego ideal\" of her deceased mother (who died upon child-birth). Agnes marries late, has relationship and intimacy problems (she has a hard time expressing her love for David until he reveals his own love for her), and has some self-defeating attitudes; in one scene she blames her own father's misfortunes on herself. However, she proves to be resilient, resourceful, responsible and even potentially career-driven (she forms her own school). She also manages to marry the protagonist David and the two live happily together for 10 years with children by the end of the novel.\n\nThe theme of parentification has also been explored in the \"Twilight\" series, with particular (but not exclusive) reference to the character of Bella Swan.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "913970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=913970", "title": "Parol evidence rule", "text": "Parol evidence rule\n\nThe parol evidence rule is a rule in the Anglo-American common law regarding contracts, and governs what kinds of evidence parties to a contract dispute can introduce to identify the specific terms of a contract. The rule prevents parties who have reduced their agreement to a final written document from later introducing other evidence, such as the content of oral discussions from earlier in the negotiation process, as evidence of a different intent as to the terms of the contract. The term \"parol\" derives from the Anglo-Norman French \"parol\" or \"parole\", meaning \"word of mouth\" or \"verbal\", and in medieval times referred to oral pleadings in a court case.\n\nThe supporting rationale for this rule is that since the contracting parties have reduced their agreement to a single and final writing, extrinsic evidence of past agreements or terms should not be considered when interpreting that writing, as the parties had decided to ultimately leave them out of the contract. In other words, one may not use evidence made prior to the written contract to contradict the writing. A common misconception is that it is a rule of evidence (like the Federal Rules of Evidence), but that is not the case.\n\nThe rule applies to parol evidence, as well as other extrinsic evidence (such as written correspondence that does not form a separate contract) regarding a contract. If a contract is in writing and final to at least one term (integrated), parol or extrinsic evidence will generally be excluded. However, there are a number of exceptions to this general rule, including for partially integrated contracts, agreements with separate consideration, to resolve ambiguities, or to establish contract defenses.\n\nTo take an example, Carl agrees in writing to sell Betty a car for $1,000, but later, Betty argues that Carl earlier told her that she would only need to pay Carl $800. The parol evidence rule would generally prevent Betty from testifying to this alleged conversation because the testimony ($800) would directly contradict the written contract's terms ($1,000).\n\nIn order for the rule to be effective, the contract in question must first be a final integrated writing; it must, in the judgment of the court, be the final agreement between the parties (as opposed to a mere draft, for example).\n\nA final agreement is either a partial or complete integration, provided that it has an agreement on its face indicating its finality. If it contains some, but not all, of the terms as to which the parties have agreed then it is a partial integration. This means that the writing was a final agreement between the parties (and not mere preliminary negotiations) as to some terms, but not as to others. On the other hand, if the writing were to contain all of the terms as to which the parties agreed, then it would be a complete integration. One way to ensure that the contract will be found to be a final and complete integration is through the inclusion of a merger clause, which recites that the contract is, in fact, the whole agreement between the parties. However, many modern cases have found merger clauses to be only a rebuttable presumption.\n\nThe importance of the distinction between partial and complete integrations is relevant to what evidence is excluded under the parol evidence rule. For both complete and partial integrations, evidence contradicting the writing is excluded under the parol evidence rule. However, for a partial integration, terms that supplement the writing are admissible. To put it mildly, this can be an extremely subtle (and subjective) distinction.\n\nTo put it simply, (1) If the parties intend a complete integration of the contract terms, no parol evidence within the scope of agreement is permitted. (2) If the parties intended a partial integrated agreement, no parol evidence that contradicts anything integrated is permitted. And (3), if the parol evidence is collateral, meaning it regards a different agreement, and does not contradict the integrated terms, and are not terms any reasonable person would always naturally integrate, then the rule does not apply and the evidence is admissible.\n\nIn a minority of U.S. states, (Florida, Colorado, and Wisconsin), the parol evidence rule is extremely strong and extrinsic evidence is always barred from being used to interpret a contract. This is called the Four Corners Rule, and it is traditional/old. In a Four Corners Rule jurisdiction, there are two basic rules. First, the court will never allow parol evidence if the parties intended a full and completely integrated agreement, and second, the court will only turn to parol evidence if the terms available are wholly ambiguous. The policy is to prevent lying, to protect against doubtful veracity, to enable parties to rely dearly on written contracts, and for judicial efficiency.\n\nIn most jurisdictions there are numerous exceptions to this rule, and in those jurisdictions, extrinsic evidence may be admitted for the following purposes. This is called the Admission Rule. It favors liberalizing the admission of evidence to determine if the contract was fully integrated and to determine if the parol evidence is relevant. In these jurisdictions, such as California, one can bring in parol evidence even if the contract is unambiguous on its face, if the parol evidence creates ambiguity. The policy is to get to the actual truth.\n\nThe third and final admissibility rule is that under the UCC § 2-202: Parol evidence cannot contradict a writing intended to be the \"final expression\" of the agreement integrated but may be explained or supplemented by (a) a course of dealing/usage of trade/ course of performance, and by (b) evidence of consistent additional terms unless the writing was also intended to be a complete and exclusive statement of the terms of the agreement.\n\n\nIn order for evidence to fall within this rule, it must involve either (1) a written or oral communication made prior to execution of the written contract; or (2) an oral communication made contemporaneous with execution of the written contract. Evidence of a \"later\" communication will not be barred by this rule, as it is admissible to show a later modification of the contract (although it might be inadmissible for some other reason, such as the Statute of frauds). Similarly, evidence of a collateral agreement - one that would naturally and normally be included in a separate writing - will not be barred. For example, if A contracts with B to paint B's house for $1,000, B can introduce extrinsic evidence to show that A also contracted to paint B's storage shed for $100. The agreement to paint the shed would logically be in a separate document from the agreement to paint the house.\n\nThough its name suggests that it is a procedural evidence rule, the consensus of courts and commentators is that the parol evidence rule constitutes substantive contract law.\n\nAdditional information on the parol evidence rule may be found in Restatement (Second) of Contracts § 213.\n\nThe parol evidence rule is a common trap for consumers. For example:\n\n\nAustralia\nException 1: the contract is an oral contract or partly written.\nException 2: parties may have entered into a collateral contract, or are establishing an estoppel, with rectification, condition precedent, the true consideration, ACL, implied terms.\n\nAlso, a narrow view of admissibility of extrinsic evidence has been taken, where evidence of surrounding circumstances is only admissible to resolve patent ambiguity, latent ambiguity, and inherent ambiguity in the meaning of the words of a contract. The High Court in \"Electricity Generation Corporation v Woodside Energy Ltd\" took a different approach to interpreting commercial contracts, considering the \"language used by the parties, the surrounding circumstances known to them and the commercial purpose or objects to be secured by the contract\" at the \"genesis of the transaction\". This necessarily implies consideration of surrounding circumstances and indicates a broader approach may be adopted by the court in the future. The latest view is the narrow view which was described in \"Mount Bruce Mining Pty Limited v Wright Prospecting Pty Limited\".\n\nSouth Africa\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10090547", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10090547", "title": "Peano existence theorem", "text": "Peano existence theorem\n\nIn mathematics, specifically in the study of ordinary differential equations, the Peano existence theorem, Peano theorem or Cauchy–Peano theorem, named after Giuseppe Peano and Augustin-Louis Cauchy, is a fundamental theorem which guarantees the existence of solutions to certain initial value problems.\n\nPeano first published the theorem in 1886 with an incorrect proof. In 1890 he published a new correct proof using successive approximations.\n\nLet \"D\" be an open subset of R × R with\na continuous function and\na continuous, explicit first-order differential equation defined on \"D\", then every initial value problem\nfor \"f\" with formula_4\nhas a local solution\nwhere formula_6 is a neighbourhood of formula_7 in formula_8,\nsuch that formula_9 for all formula_10.\n\nThe solution need not be unique: one and the same initial value (\"x\",\"y\") may give rise to many different solutions \"z\".\n\nThe Peano theorem can be compared with another existence result in the same context, the Picard–Lindelöf theorem. The Picard–Lindelöf theorem both assumes more and concludes more. It requires Lipschitz continuity, while the Peano theorem requires only continuity; but it proves both existence and uniqueness where the Peano theorem proves only the existence of solutions. To illustrate, consider the ordinary differential equation\n\nAccording to the Peano theorem, this equation has solutions, but the Picard–Lindelöf theorem does not apply since the right hand side is not Lipschitz continuous in any neighbourhood containing 0. Thus we can conclude existence but not uniqueness. It turns out that this ordinary differential equation has two kinds of solutions when starting at formula_13, either formula_14 or formula_15. The transition between formula_16 and formula_17 can happen at any C.\n\nThe Carathéodory existence theorem is a generalization of the Peano existence theorem with weaker conditions than continuity.\n\n"}
{"id": "38707853", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38707853", "title": "Political consciousness", "text": "Political consciousness\n\nFollowing the work of Georg Wilhelm Friedrich Hegel, Karl Marx outlined the workings of a political consciousness.\n\nConsciousness typically refers to the idea of a being who is self-aware. It is a distinction often reserved for human beings. This remains the original and most common usage of the term. For Marx, consciousness describes a person's political sense of self. That is, consciousness describes a person's awareness of politics. For Marx, an authentic consciousness was linked to understanding one's true position in History. While Hegel placed God behind the workings of consciousness in people, Marx saw the political economy as the engine of mind.\n\nIn the 20th century, many social movements and intellectuals have developed this use of consciousness.\n\nIn Marx's view, consciousness was always political, for it was always the outcome of politic-economic circumstances. What one thinks of life, power, and self, for Marx, is always a product of ideological forces.\n\nFor Marx, ideologies appear to explain and justify the current distribution of wealth and power in a society. In societies with unequal allocations of wealth and power, ideologies present these inequalities as acceptable, virtuous, inevitable, and so forth. Ideologies thus tend to lead people to accept the status quo. The subordinate people come to believe in their subordination: the peasants to accept the rule of the aristocracy, the factory workers to accept the rule of the owners, consumers the rule of corporations. This belief in one's own subordination, which comes about through ideology, is, for Marx, false consciousness.\n\nThat is, conditions of inequality create ideologies which confuse people about their true aspirations, loyalties, and purposes. Thus, for example, the working class has often been, for Marx, beguiled by nationalism, organized religion, and other distractions. These ideological devices help to keep people from realizing that it is they who produce wealth, they who deserve the fruits of the land, all who can prosper: instead of literally thinking for themselves, they think the thoughts given to them by the ruling class.\n\nFor Marx, consciousness is a reflection of the political economy. A person's thoughts tend to be shaped by his or her political and economic circumstances. He famously wrote, \"It is not the consciousness of men that determines their being, but, on the contrary, their social being that determines their consciousness.\"\nPerhaps Marx's greatest contribution to modern thought... is his comprehensive investigation into the role of Ideology, or how social being determines consciousness, which results in certain (for the most part unconscious) belief and value systems depending on the particular economic infrastructure pertaining at the time. From a Marxian point of view all cultural artifacts--religious systems, philosophical positions, ethical values--are, naturally enough, products of consciousness and as such are subject to these ideological pressures. \n\nMany social movements have loosely followed Marx's thinking on consciousness. Attaining consciousness, many believe, means finding one's \"true\" historical path, as opposed to the propaganda dispensed by the ruling elites. Thus, the feminist movement spoke of consciousness raising and many South African activists have subscribe to a Black Consciousness Movement, which calls upon Blacks to pursue their \"true\" political trajectory (as opposed to the ideas set out by, for example, the apartheid regime). In the latter example, for many South African Blacks, consciousness meant rejecting racist ideas about Blacks, rejecting White rule of the nation, and restoring Black identity, history, and power.\n\nIn a politically charged sense, becoming \"politically conscious\" is often meant to connote that people have awakened to their \"true\" political role, their \"actual\" identity. For Marx, this meant that the working classes would become conscious of themselves as the agents of history--they would unite and share in the wealth of labor. This, for Marx, was their historical role and their right (as opposed to working for wages, fighting wars on behalf of capitalists, and so forth). For many African Americans, \"consciousness\" has meant identifying and discrediting forms of White supremacy, including those internalized by Blacks. In these uses of the term \"consciousness\" is truth or destiny. These uses of political consciousness are often politically charged. Does, for example, a Black woman lack consciousness because she generally supports a system run mostly by White male capitalists? If she became politically conscious would she think differently? What is her \"true\" consciousness supposed to look like?\n\nMany marxists, feminists, African Americans (and other groups), have ceased to argue that there is one true form of consciousness. Instead, while preserving a sense that the ruling class perpetuates a dominant ideology and often behaves in ways which harm people, many dissenters now hold a more liberal position which tolerates a variety of political positions. The complexities of political consciousness are described by the theories of cultural hegemony.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8804917", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8804917", "title": "Powelliphanta rossiana, subspecies \"Fox\"", "text": "Powelliphanta rossiana, subspecies \"Fox\"\n\n\"Powelliphanta rossiana\", subspecies \"Fox\", known as one of the amber snails, is an as yet unnamed subspecies of large, carnivorous land snail, a terrestrial pulmonate gastropod mollusc in the family Rhytididae.\n\n"}
{"id": "12529904", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12529904", "title": "Ralph Mark Gilbert", "text": "Ralph Mark Gilbert\n\nRalph Mark Gilbert (March 17, 1899, Jacksonville, Florida - August 23, 1956, New York City) was an American civil rights leader and a Baptist minister.\n\nFrom 1939 until his death in 1956, he was the Pastor of the First African Baptist Church, located at\n23 Montgomery Street on Franklin Square in Savannah's Historic District.\n\nFrom 1942 to 1950, Gilbert served as president of the Savannah Branch of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People (NAACP). Under his tenure, the local chapter was reorganized, hundreds of Blacks were registered to vote, a progressive white Democratic politician, John G. Kennedy, became Mayor of Savannah and the city's Police Department hired its first Black police officers, known as the \"Original Nine\".\n\nReverend Gilbert died August 23, 1956 while on vacation in New York City, New York.\n\nSavannah's Ralph Mark Gilbert Civil Rights Museum is named in honor of Dr. Gilbert. The museum is located at 460 Martin Luther King, Jr. Blvd.in the Wage Earners Bank building constructed in 1914. Renovation of the building began in 1993 to house the museum and opened as Ralph Mark Gilbert Civil Rights Museum in 1996.\n\n"}
{"id": "316129", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=316129", "title": "Raymond Aron", "text": "Raymond Aron\n\nRaymond Claude Ferdinand Aron (; 14 March 1905 – 17 October 1983) was a French philosopher, sociologist, political scientist, and journalist.\n\nHe is best known for his 1955 book \"The Opium of the Intellectuals\", the title of which inverts Karl Marx's claim that religion was the opium of the people – Aron argues that in post-war France, Marxism was the opium of the intellectuals. In the book, Aron chastised French intellectuals for what he described as their harsh criticism of capitalism and democracy and their simultaneous defense of Marxist oppression, atrocities, and intolerance. Critic Roger Kimball suggests that \"Opium\" is \"a seminal book of the twentieth century.\" Aron is also known for his lifelong friendship, sometimes fractious, with philosopher Jean-Paul Sartre.\n\nHe is also known for his 1973 book, \"The Imperial Republic: The United States and the World 1945-1973\", which influenced Zbigniew Brzezinski and Henry Kissinger, among others.\n\nAron wrote extensively on a wide range of other topics. Citing the breadth and quality of Aron's writings, historian James R. Garland suggests, \"Though he may be little known in America, Raymond Aron arguably stood as the preeminent example of French intellectualism for much of the twentieth century.\"\n\nBorn in Paris, the son of a secular Jewish lawyer, Aron studied at the École Normale Supérieure, where he met Jean-Paul Sartre, who became his friend and lifelong intellectual opponent. He was a rational humanist, and a leader among those who did not embrace existentialism. Aron took first place in the \"agrégation\" of philosophy in 1928, the year Sartre failed the same exam. In 1930, he received a doctorate in the philosophy of history from the École Normale Supérieure.\n\nHe had been teaching social philosophy at the University of Toulouse for only a few weeks when World War II began; he joined the Armée de l'Air. When France was defeated, he left for London to join the Free French forces, editing the newspaper, \"France Libre\" (Free France).\n\nWhen the war ended Aron returned to Paris to teach sociology at the École Nationale d'Administration and Sciences Po. From 1955 to 1968, he taught at the Sorbonne, and after 1970 at the Collège de France. In 1953, he befriended the young American philosopher Allan Bloom, who was teaching at the Sorbonne.\n\nA lifelong journalist, Aron in 1947 became an influential columnist for \"Le Figaro\", a position he held for thirty years until he joined \"L'Express\", where he wrote a political column up to his death.\n\nHe was elected a Foreign Honorary Member of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences in 1960.\n\nAron died of a heart attack in Paris on 17 October 1983.\n\nIn Berlin, Aron witnessed the rise to power of the Nazi Party, and developed an aversion to all totalitarian systems. In 1938 he participated in the Colloque Walter Lippmann in Paris.\n\nAron is the author of books on Karl Marx and on Carl von Clausewitz. In \"Peace and War\" he set out a theory of international relations. He argues that Max Weber's claim that the State has a monopoly on the legitimate use of physical force does not apply to the relationship between States.\n\nIn the field of international relations, in the 1950s, Aron hypothesized that despite the advent of nuclear weapons, nations would still require conventional military forces. The usefulness of such forces would be made necessary by what he called a \"nuclear taboo.\"\n\nA prolific author, he \"wrote several thousand editorials and several hundred academic articles, essays, and comments, as well as about forty books\", which include:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "753695", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=753695", "title": "Schutzjude", "text": "Schutzjude\n\nSchutzjude (, \"protected Jew\") was a status for German Jews granted by the imperial, princely or royal courts. \n\nWithin the Holy Roman Empire, except some eastern territories gained by the Empire in the 11th and 12th centuries (e.g. Brandenburg), Jews usually had the status of Servi camerae regis. This status included imperial protection and the levying of special taxes on the Jews for the Empire's treasury (Latin: camera regis). But the emperors, always short of money, alienated — by sale or pledge — their privilege to levy extra taxes on Jews, not all at once, but territory by territory to different creditors and purchasers. Thus Jews lost their — not always reliable — imperial protection. \n\nMany territories that gained supremacy over the Jews living within their boundaries subsequently expelled them. After the general expulsions of the Jews from a given territory often only single Jews — if any at all — would be granted the personal privilege to reside within the territory. This personal privilege, documented by a \"Schutzbrief\" (writ of protection), a \"Geleitsbrief\" (writ of escort), or (in Brandenburg) a \"Patent\", was sometimes inheritable by only one son (in rare instances, by all sons), and was sometimes uninheritable. Jews holding such a privilege were thus called \"Schutzjuden\", \"vergeleitete Juden\", or \"Patentjuden\", as opposed to Jews who had no right of residence, who were known as \"unvergeleitete Juden\". The latter were not allowed to marry, and might spend their life unmarried as a member of the household of a privileged relative or employer. \n\nFor example, in October 1763 King Frederick II of Brandenburg-Prussia granted Moses Mendelssohn, until then under protection by being employed by a \"Patentjude\", a personal, uninheritable privilege, which assured his right to undisturbed residence in Berlin. His wife and children, who had no independent permission to reside, lost their status of family member of a \"Patentjude\" when Mendelssohn died in 1786. They were later granted multi-son inheritable \"Patents\". In 1810 Stein's Prussian reforms introduced a freely inheritable Prussian citizenship for all subjects of the king, doing away with the different prior legal status of the Estates, such as the Nobility, the burghers of the chartered cities, the unfree peasants, the officialdom at the court, the Patent Jews, and the Huguenots. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "35152117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35152117", "title": "Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre", "text": "Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre\n\nThe Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre () was founded on October 13, 1983, with a founding manifesto (The Sister Letter). The manifesto set this theatre group a time frame of operation – four years – and described its stages from formation to self-destruction. The Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre (1983-1987) constituted – along with Laibach and IRWIN groups – one of the three pillars of the Neue Slowenische Kunst retrogarde movement. Within the retrogarde movement, theatre research engaged in the relation between religion, art and state. It focused on rituals and the function of spectacle in theatre and in the function of spectacle the state.\n\nThe founders of the Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre were Eda Čufer, Dragan Živadinov and Miran Mohar.\n\nThe retrogarde production of events, as it was announced in the manifesto (The Sister Letter), incorporated an external manifestative part (actions) and an internal creative part (operations):\n- external part: The Appearance (1983), The Resurrection (1984) and The Self-Destruction (1987)\n- internal part: three stages of transformation - The Illegality (1984), The Exorcism (1985) and The Retro-Classic (1986)\n\nIn 1987, the Scipion Nasice Sisters Theatre performed self-destruction.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40966970", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40966970", "title": "Stable model category", "text": "Stable model category\n\nIn category theory, a branch of mathematics, a stable model category is a pointed model category in which the suspension functor is an equivalence of the homotopy category with itself.\n\nThe prototypical examples are the category of spectra in the stable homotopy theory and the category of chain complex of \"R\"-modules. On the other hand, the category of pointed topological spaces and the category of pointed simplicial sets are not stable model categories.\n\nAny stable model category is equivalent to a category of presheaves of spectra.\n\n"}
{"id": "11368868", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11368868", "title": "Superpower (ability)", "text": "Superpower (ability)\n\nSuperpower is a popular culture term for an imaginary superhuman ability. They are most frequently used in pulp magazines, comic books, science fiction, television programs, and films as the key attribute of a superhero. The concept originated in American comic books and pulp magazines of the 1930s and 1940s, and has gradually worked its way into other genres and media.\n\nThere is no rigid definition of a \"superpower.\" In popular culture, it may be used to describe anything from minimal exaggeration of normal human traits to magic, flight, super strength, projection of destructive energy beams and force fields, invulnerability, telepathy, telekinesis, teleportation, super speed, or weather control.\n\nGenerally speaking, exceptional-but-not-superhuman fictional characters like Batman, Iron Man, Green Arrow, and the Punisher may be classified as superheroes even though they do not have any actual superhuman abilities. Similarly, characters with superhuman abilities derived from artificial, external sources, like the Six Million Dollar Man's bionic limbs, Green Lantern's power ring, and Tony Stark's Iron Man armor, may be described as having superpowers, but are not necessarily superhuman.\n\nIn fiction, seemingly impossible superpowers are often given scientific, quasi-scientific, pseudoscientific, or supernatural explanations. Superpowers based on possible current or future technology, such as mechanized suits, rockets, bionics and genetic manipulation, are typically explained using science and science fiction. Superpowers based on psychic and paranormal phenomena, for example, are typically explained using supernatural/otherworldly ideas, parapsychology, or even pseudoscience. Other superpowers may be explained using mythology.\n\nThe 1970s brought the development of role-playing games like \"Dungeons & Dragons\". Superhero-themed games soon followed, but within the game mechanics of role-playing game systems, issues such as the name or visible effects of a form of attack became apparent. The \"Champions\" role-playing game handled this by describing powers by their effects rather than their causes; for example, a laser and a lightning bolt were both considered to be forms of a ranged attack. Another issue was that some powers were simply more useful than others in terms of gameplay; \"Champions\" handled this as well by assigning each power a \"value\" in a point system, with more powerful or useful abilities costing more points to \"buy.\" \"Champions\" also gave players options to modify their characters' powers, allowing each character's abilities to be unique. This system has influenced many other similar games since.\n\nIn the 1980s, Marvel Comics began publishing their \"Official Handbook of the Marvel Universe\" series, in which the powers of their characters were explained in great detail, often using scientific and pseudo-scientific terms. Issues of persecution in relation to the possession of superpowers have also been expanded upon; an example of this is the persecution of mutants in the \"X-Men\" series.\n\nSuperpowers are a commonly used concept in manga and anime, particularly in the shonen genre. They are often featured in popular manga and anime such as Attack on Titan, My Hero Academia, HunterxHunter, Naruto, and Code Geass. The types of powers featured vary from anime to anime. Some anime, such as Dragon Ball Z, feature many different characters who have the same types of powers; others, such as One Piece, feature characters with a wide range of different powers, with many powers being unique to only one or a few characters.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5498128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5498128", "title": "Sworn testimony", "text": "Sworn testimony\n\nSworn testimony is evidence given by a witness who has made a commitment to tell the truth. If the witness is later found to have lied whilst bound by the commitment, they can often be charged with the crime of perjury. The types of commitment can include oaths, affirmations and promises which are explained in more detail below. The exact wording of the commitments vary from country to country.\n\nThe commitment can come in different forms depending on the situation of the witness. The types of commitment used in the United Kingdom are:\n\n\n\"Oath:\"\nAffirmation:\n\nI solemnly and sincerely declare and affirm that the evidence I shall give will be the truth, the whole truth and nothing but the truth. \n\n\"Affirmation\":\n\n\"Oath/Affirmation\":\n\n\"Oath\":\n\"Affirmation\":\n\n\"Oath\":\n\n\"Affirmation\"\n\n\"Promise\"\n\nIn the UK, you can give testimony at any age, but will not be sworn in unless 14 years old or over.\n\n\"Oath\":\n\n\"Affirmation\":\n\n\"Oath\":\nSwear may be replaced with \"affirm\", and either \"so help you God\" or \"under pains and penalties of perjury\" may be used; all oaths and affirmations are considered to be equivalent before the law. These modifications to the oath were originally introduced in order to accommodate those who feel uncomfortable swearing religious oaths, such as Quakers, as well as to accommodate the irreligious. In \"United States v. Ward\", the Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals ruled that certain other modifications of the oath were acceptable so long as they demonstrated \"a moral or ethical sense of right and wrong\". \n\n\"Oath (California)\":\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57023202", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57023202", "title": "Table manners in North America", "text": "Table manners in North America\n\nTable manners are the cultural customs and rules of etiquette used while dining. As in other areas of North American etiquette, the rules governing appropriate table manners have changed over time and may differ depending on the setting (e.g. dining at home, at a restaurant, or with business colleagues).\n\nTable manners have an ancient and complex history, as each society has gradually evolved its system. Today, many of the behaviors that take place at the dinner table are deeply rooted in history.\n\nIn Europe, Italy more or less led the cultural revolution starting with the renaissance. Italian poet Giovanni Della Casa advised in \"Galateo\", his 1558 book on manners: \"One should not comb his hair nor wash his hands in public... the exception to this is the washing of the hands when done before sitting down to dinner, for then it should be done in full sight of others, even if you do not need to wash them at all, so that whoever dips into the same bowl as you will be certain of your cleanliness.\"\n\nSome other examples are:\n\nProper manners were a concern even of leaders in the society of eighteenth-century America –– Benjamin Franklin's Poor Richard's Almanac, for instance, included comments on proper behavior. During the nineteenth century, hundreds of books on etiquette were published in the United States.\n\nEach household may have a unique set of rules at the table, but despite cultural differences, there are some essential table manners most families share, including rules against picking one's teeth at the table and chewing with one's mouth open. Due to changing lifestyles, table manners are more casual than they were in the 1950s. For example, some commentators contend that the common prohibition against placing elbows on the table no longer applies. Today, many families eat fast food without silverware and eat meals in front of the television or in the car rather than following past norms of gathering the family at the dining table for a meal. Critics claim that these changes have led to fewer opportunities to learn table manners in the home.\n\nAdditionally, advancement of technology in recent years raises issues regarding smartphone use at the dining table. Opinions vary regarding whether the use of smartphones at the dining table is acceptable.\n\nThe convention of avoiding putting one's elbows on the table while eating arose from a time when tables were sufficiently rustic and unstable that leaning on them could cause loose planks to disrupt the meal.ht However, as time has changed, it has become more acceptable to put one's elbows on the table, but only between courses, not while eating.\n\nThe main reason to be quiet while eating is for safety. According to the National Safety Council, suffocation, especially on foods, was ranked fourth on a list of major causes of death in American homes. There was a case in an American middle school that involved one of the students choking while eating in the cafeteria.\n\n<nowiki> </nowiki>In most places, it is unacceptable for someone to make disapproving or disrespectful sounds when presented with food. Likewise, blowing one's nose at the table is unacceptable. In addition, slurping food is considered offensive and impolite and inconsiderate to others. For example it is illegal to slurp soup at a public eating place in New Jersey.\n\nNot every good table manner in North America is acceptable in every part of the world. Certain manners are considered rude in other cultures; for example, leaving tips. It is normal for an American to leave a tip for their waiter. However, it is offensive to tip waiters in Japan.\n\nAs business dealings can take place over a meal, table manners may be put to good use while dining with clientele, co-workers, or subordinates - building rapport with a client, celebrating the accomplishments of a team, or simply hosting a discussion in a non-office setting all call for proper etiquette if dining is involved. It is deemed an essential enough behavioral skill that has suffered from a decline in naturally occurring generational inheritance to the effect that some schools have opened programs and classes centered around dining etiquette to educate students in the practice. Poor table manners can affect the opinion of those involved, as well as the outcome of the meeting.\n\nMany appropriate mannerisms from formal dining situations can be applied in a business setting, though variations exist depending on who is the host and who is the guest, and the relation the one has with the other. Speaking while still chewing or mid-bite may be acceptable in an informal lunch setting with often-seen coworkers, but in a high-stakes meeting with a potential customer, it will likely come off as rude. Napkins are intended to be kept in the lap. The exception is when leaving the table temporarily - placed on the chair signals the staff that the diner's meal is unfinished, placed on the table near the plate shows the patron has completed their meal.\n\nUnless the host offers to pay the inevitable bill, it should be assumed that each diner is responsible for their own bill, and the staff (and table) should be made aware of this at the appropriate time. The former being the case typically does not mean that the most expensive item on the menu should be sought out.\n\nThe dress code for a business related dining event can vary, usually around when the event takes place. The lunch period will likely find participants wearing what they wore to work, though special events may require a higher level of dress. It is important to understand and attempt to match the formality of the event - this type of table manners begin prior to sitting down at the table.\n\nThe level of formality can vary depending on the formality of the restaurant.\n\nProper table manners ought to begin as soon as one arrives at a table. The very first step after sitting down is place the napkin in one's lap. With the napkin placed on the lap, it protects clothing from spills or food that may fall into the diner's lap.\n\nIt is important to be able to navigate the table setting, not only knowing which utensils to use, but which items are meant for whose use. A general rule of thumb for selecting the proper spoon or fork when provided with multiple is to start on the outside and work your way in. For example, if you are starting with a salad course and you have two forks to choose from, the fork farthest from the plate should be used, leaving the closer one for the main course. Similarly, if you start with soup, select the spoon that is farthest from the plate.\n\nMany restaurants set the table with a bread plate and water glass at each seat before patrons arrive. The bread plate goes to the left of the plate, and the beverage to the right. To avoid drinking from the wrong glass or taking a bite of your neighbor's bread, use the following trick if you forget which is yours:Touch both your index fingers to your thumbs. On your left, you will see a lowercase \"b\", which stands for the bread plate. On your right is a lowercase \"d\" for Drinks. Dining in North America is widely viewed as a social occasion, rather than simply an opportunity to eat. As such, it is important to show the people dining with you that you respect them and their time enough to put your cell phone away. According to a study done by the Pew Research Center, 38% percent of people think it is acceptable to use cell phones in restaurants, and that number gets even smaller depending on the occasion. 12% of people think it is OK to use cell phones at family dinners, and only 5% think it is appropriate during meetings.\n\nWhen it comes to paying the bill in American restaurants, adding a tip is a common custom that is often expected by the waiter. According to a study by CreditCards.com, 4 out of 5 Americans always leave a tip when dining out, and the average tip is 16%-20% of the total bill.\n"}
{"id": "34534224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34534224", "title": "The Hunger March", "text": "The Hunger March\n\nThe Hunger March is the name of a happening and a series of sculptures made by Jens Galschiøt in 2001.\n\nThe event was inspired by the 1990 movie \"The March\", in which a horde of starving people marches towards Europe.\n\n\"The Hunger March\" is a reminder that, if the world's need and distress is not relieved, the desperate victims will some day be knocking on the doors of the affluent. To remind people of the issues the world is facing, Galschiøt created 27 sculptures of starving African kids out of bronze. The \"kids\" have a sad look on their faces. The bronze is darkened to give them a sad, dark look. At the bottom of the sculpture, there is a shining new shoe, made by one of the major shoe companies that is responsible for the use of poor kids in the third world to work for a small payment. \n\nIn May 2001, in the center of Odense, a bronze sculpture of a 12-year-old starved black boy, with a large pair of shining new Nike shoes, was set up so that it appeared to watch the well-fed Danes rushing by. The sculpture stood on a polished black granite pedestal, with the slogan \"JUST DO IT\" written on it.\n\nGalschiøt stated \"With this sculpture, I'll pinpoint the hypocrisy of companies who in their lifestyle commercials are linking their brands with concepts such as freedom and equality and at the same time are cynically exploiting and \noppressing the workers who make the products.\"\n\nDuring the ASEM 4 summit in Copenhagen in September 2002, 27 \"starving boys\" were placed in Copenhagen to demonstrate for social justice. The 27 sculptures were supposed to represent the starving people in the Third World countries that are influenced by the way that the summit focuses on corporations' profit, instead of poor peoples' interests. The event was arranged in co-operation with Care-Denmark and The Salvation Army. The latter organization supplied the boys with Adidas, Nike and Reebok shoes.\n\nIn the summer of 2002, a crowd of 27 starving African boys cast in copper started a tour throughout Denmark to protest against the government's cutback of development aid. \n\nGalschiøt launched the action in cooperation with the NGO Forum in Aarhus. Hundreds of volunteers took part in the creation of the sculptures in the artist's workshop, and subsequently in the mobilization of the boys all over the country. \n\nIn March 2003, DanChurchAid is using the sculptures in their collection to support children who have been left orphans due to AIDS.\n\n\"The Hunger March\" has often appeared as a participant in different demonstrations in Denmark, such as the climate demonstrations. Usually the sculptures are placed on small wagons, where they appear as being a part of the marching crowd.\n\n"}
{"id": "85248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85248", "title": "Theatre of the Absurd", "text": "Theatre of the Absurd\n\nThe Theatre of the Absurd ( ) is a post–World War II designation for particular plays of absurdist fiction written by a number of primarily European playwrights in the late 1950s, as well as one for the style of theatre which has evolved from their work. Their work focused largely on the idea of existentialism and expressed what happens when human existence has no meaning or purpose and therefore all communication breaks down. Logical construction and argument gives way to irrational and illogical speech and to its ultimate conclusion, silence.\n\nCritic Martin Esslin coined the term in his 1960 essay \"Theatre of the Absurd\". He related these plays based on a broad theme of the Absurd, similar to the way Albert Camus uses the term in his 1942 essay \"The Myth of Sisyphus\". The Absurd in these plays takes the form of man's reaction to a world apparently without meaning, or man as a puppet controlled or menaced by invisible outside forces. This style of writing was first popularized by the Samuel Beckett play \"Waiting for Godot\" (1953). Although the term is applied to a wide range of plays, some characteristics coincide in many of the plays: broad comedy, often similar to vaudeville, mixed with horrific or tragic images; characters caught in hopeless situations forced to do repetitive or meaningless actions; dialogue full of clichés, wordplay, and nonsense; plots that are cyclical or absurdly expansive; either a parody or dismissal of realism and the concept of the \"well-made play\". These plays were shaped by the political turmoil, scientific breakthrough, and social upheaval going on in the world around the playwrights during these times.\n\nWhile absurdists believed that life is absurd, they also believed that death and the \"after life\" were equally absurd if not more, and that whether people live or not all of their actions are pointless and everything will lead to the same end (hence the repetitiveness in many of these absurdist plays).\n\nIn his book \"Absurd Drama\" (1965), Esslin wrote:... the Theatre of the Absurd attacks the comfortable certainties of religious or political orthodoxy. It aims to shock its audience out of complacency, to bring it face to face with the harsh facts of the human situation as these writers see it. But the challenge behind this message is anything but one of despair. It is a challenge to accept the human condition as it is, in all its mystery and absurdity, and to bear it with dignity, nobly, responsibly; precisely there are no easy solutions to the mysteries of existence, because ultimately man is alone in a meaningless world. The shedding of easy solutions, of comforting illusions, may be painful, but it leaves behind it a sense of freedom and relief. And that is why, in the last resort, the Theatre of the Absurd does not provoke tears of despair but the laughter of liberation.\n\nPlaywrights commonly associated with the Theatre of the Absurd include Samuel Beckett, Eugène Ionesco, Jean Genet, Arthur Adamov, Harold Pinter, Luigi Pirandello, Tom Stoppard, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Miguel Mihura, Alejandro Jodorowsky, Fernando Arrabal, Václav Havel, Edward Albee, Malay Roy Choudhury, Tadeusz Różewicz, Sławomir Mrożek, N.F. Simpson, and Badal Sarkar.\n\nIn the first edition of \"The Theatre of the Absurd\", Esslin saw the work of these playwrights as giving artistic meaning to Albert Camus's philosophy that life is inherently without meaning, as illustrated in his work \"The Myth of Sisyphus\". In the first (1961) edition, Esslin presented the four defining playwrights of the movement as Samuel Beckett, Arthur Adamov, Eugène Ionesco, and Jean Genet, and in subsequent editions he added a fifth playwright, Harold Pinter—although each of these writers has unique preoccupations and characteristics that go beyond the term \"absurd.\" Other writers associated with this group by Esslin and other critics include Tom Stoppard, Friedrich Dürrenmatt, Fernando Arrabal, Edward Albee, Boris Vian, and Jean Tardieu.\n\nThough the label \"Theatre of the Absurd\" covers a wide variety of playwrights with differing styles, they do have some common stylistic precursors (Esslin [1961]). These precursors include Elizabethan tragicomedy, formal experimentation, pataphysics, surrealism, Dadaism, and most importantly existentialism.\n\nThe mode of most \"absurdist\" plays is tragicomedy. As Nell says in \"Endgame\", \"Nothing is funnier than unhappiness … it's the most comical thing in the world\". Esslin cites William Shakespeare as an influence on this aspect of the \"Absurd drama.\" Shakespeare's influence is acknowledged directly in the titles of Ionesco's \"Macbett\" and Stoppard's \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead\". Friedrich Dürrenmatt says in his essay \"Problems of the Theatre\", \"Comedy alone is suitable for us … But the tragic is still possible even if pure tragedy is not. We can achieve the tragic out of comedy. We can bring it forth as a frightening moment, as an abyss that opens suddenly; indeed, many of Shakespeare's tragedies are already really comedies out of which the tragic arises.\"\n\nThough layered with a significant amount of tragedy, the Theatre of the Absurd echoes other great forms of comedic performance, according to Esslin, from Commedia dell'arte to vaudeville. Similarly, Esslin cites early film comedians and music hall artists such as Charlie Chaplin, the Keystone Cops and Buster Keaton as direct influences. (Keaton even starred in Beckett's \"Film\" in 1965.)\n\nAs an experimental form of theatre, many Theatre of the Absurd playwrights employ techniques borrowed from earlier innovators. Writers and techniques frequently mentioned in relation to the Theatre of the Absurd include the 19th-century nonsense poets, such as Lewis Carroll or Edward Lear; Polish playwright Stanisław Ignacy Witkiewicz; the Russians Daniil Kharms, Nikolai Erdman, and others; Bertolt Brecht's distancing techniques in his \"Epic theatre\"; and the \"dream plays\" of August Strindberg.\n\nOne commonly cited precursor is Luigi Pirandello, especially \"Six Characters in Search of an Author\". Pirandello was a highly regarded theatrical experimentalist who wanted to bring down the fourth wall presupposed by the realism of playwrights such as Henrik Ibsen. According to W. B. Worthen, \"Six Characters\" and other Pirandello plays use \"Metatheatre—roleplaying, plays-within-plays, and a flexible sense of the limits of stage and illusion—to examine a highly-theatricalized vision of identity\".\n\nAnother influential playwright was Guillaume Apollinaire whose \"The Breasts of Tiresias\" was the first work to be called \"surreal\".\n\nOne of the most significant common precursors is Alfred Jarry whose wild, irreverent, and lascivious \"Ubu\" plays scandalized Paris in the 1890s. Likewise, the concept of 'pataphysics—\"the science of imaginary solutions\"—first presented in Jarry's \"Gestes et opinions du docteur Faustroll, pataphysicien\" (\"Exploits and Opinions of Dr. Faustroll, pataphysician\") was inspirational to many later Absurdists, some of whom joined the Collège de 'pataphysique, founded in honor of Jarry in 1948 (Ionesco, Arrabal, and Vian were given the title Transcendent Satrape of the Collège de 'pataphysique). The Alfred Jarry Theatre, founded by Antonin Artaud and Roger Vitrac, housed several Absurdist plays, including ones by Ionesco and Adamov.\n\nArtaud's \"The Theatre of Cruelty\" (presented in \"The Theatre and Its Double\") was a particularly important philosophical treatise. Artaud claimed theatre's reliance on literature was inadequate and that the true power of theatre was in its visceral impact. Artaud was a Surrealist, and many other members of the Surrealist group were significant influences on the Absurdists.\n\nAbsurdism is also frequently compared to Surrealism's predecessor, Dadaism (for example, the Dadaist plays by Tristan Tzara performed at the Cabaret Voltaire in Zürich). Many of the Absurdists had direct connections with the Dadaists and Surrealists. Ionesco, Adamov, and Arrabal for example, were friends with Surrealists still living in Paris at the time including Paul Eluard and André Breton, the founder of Surrealism, and Beckett translated many Surrealist poems by Breton and others from French into English.\n\nMany of the Absurdists were contemporaries with Jean-Paul Sartre, the philosophical spokesman for existentialism in Paris, but few Absurdists actually committed to Sartre's own existentialist philosophy, as expressed in \"Being and Nothingness\", and many of the Absurdists had a complicated relationship with him. Sartre praised Genet's plays, stating that for Genet, \"Good is only an illusion. Evil is a Nothingness which arises upon the ruins of Good\".\n\nIonesco, however, hated Sartre bitterly. Ionesco accused Sartre of supporting Communism but ignoring the atrocities committed by Communists; he wrote \"Rhinoceros\" as a criticism of blind conformity, whether it be to Nazism or Communism; at the end of the play, one man remains on Earth resisting transformation into a rhinoceros Sartre criticized \"Rhinoceros\" by questioning: \"Why is there one man who resists? At least we could learn why, but no, we learn not even that. He resists because he is there\". Sartre's criticism highlights a primary difference between the Theatre of the Absurd and existentialism: the Theatre of the Absurd shows the failure of man without recommending a solution. In a 1966 interview, Claude Bonnefoy, comparing the Absurdists to Sartre and Camus, said to Ionesco, \"It seems to me that Beckett, Adamov and yourself started out less from philosophical reflections or a return to classical sources, than from first-hand experience and a desire to find a new theatrical expression that would enable you to render this experience in all its acuteness and also its immediacy. If Sartre and Camus thought out these themes, you expressed them in a far more vital contemporary fashion\". Ionesco replied, \"I have the feeling that these writers – who are serious and important – were talking about absurdity and death, but that they never really lived these themes, that they did not feel them within themselves in an almost irrational, visceral way, that all this was not deeply inscribed in their language. With them it was still rhetoric, eloquence. With Adamov and Beckett it really is a very naked reality that is conveyed through the apparent dislocation of language\".\n\nIn comparison to Sartre's concepts of the function of literature, Samuel Beckett's primary focus was on the \"failure\" of man to overcome \"absurdity\" - or the repetition of life even though the end result will be the same no matter what and everything is essentially pointless - as James Knowlson says in \"Damned to Fame\", Beckett's work focuses, \"on poverty, failure, exile and loss — as he put it, on man as a 'non-knower' and as a 'non-can-er' .\" Beckett's own relationship with Sartre was complicated by a mistake made in the publication of one of his stories in Sartre's journal \"Les Temps Modernes\". Beckett said, though he liked \"Nausea\", he generally found the writing style of Sartre and Heidegger to be \"too philosophical\" and he considered himself \"not a philosopher\".\n\nThe \"Absurd\" or \"New Theater\" movement was originally a Paris-based (and a Rive Gauche) avant-garde phenomenon tied to extremely small theaters in the Quartier Latin. Some of the Absurdists, such as Jean Genet, Jean Tardieu, and Boris Vian., were born in France. Many other Absurdists were born elsewhere but lived in France, writing often in French: Samuel Beckett from Ireland; Eugène Ionesco from Romania; Arthur Adamov from Russia; Alejandro Jodorowsky from Chile and Fernando Arrabal from Spain. As the influence of the Absurdists grew, the style spread to other countries—with playwrights either directly influenced by Absurdists in Paris or playwrights labelled Absurdist by critics. In England some of those whom Esslin considered practitioners of the Theatre of the Absurd include Harold Pinter, Tom Stoppard, N. F. Simpson, James Saunders, and David Campton; in the United States, Edward Albee, Sam Shepard, Jack Gelber, and John Guare; in Poland, Tadeusz Różewicz, Sławomir Mrożek, and Tadeusz Kantor; in Italy, Dino Buzzati; and in Germany, Peter Weiss, Wolfgang Hildesheimer, and Günter Grass. In India, both Mohit Chattopadhyay and Mahesh Elkunchwar have also been labeled Absurdists. Other international Absurdist playwrights include Tawfiq el-Hakim from Egypt; Hanoch Levin from Israel; Miguel Mihura from Spain; José de Almada Negreiros from Portugal; Mikhail Volokhov from Russia; Yordan Radichkov from Bulgaria; and playwright and former Czech President Václav Havel, and others from the Czech Republic and Slovakia.\n\n\nEchoes of elements of \"The Theatre of the Absurd\" can be seen in the work of many later playwrights, from more avant-garde or experimental playwrights like Suzan-Lori Parks—in \"The Death of the Last Black Man in the Whole Entire World\" and \"The America Play\", for example—to relatively realistic playwrights like David Mamet—in \"Glengarry Glen Ross\", which Mamet dedicated to Harold Pinter. Irish playwright Martin McDonagh in plays such as \"Pillowman\" addresses some of the themes and uses some of the techniques of Absurdism, especially reminiscent of Beckett and Pinter.\n\nIn addition, the absurd drama has also found its way in Urdu literature, \"Mazaron Ke Phool\" [i.e. Graveyard Flowers] (2008) by contemporary Pakistani writer, poet and columnist Mujtaba Haider Zaidi is the first absurd drama in the history of Urdu literature. Created in the pattern of ancient Greek tragedies, the drama contains only two characters, and carries both poetry and prose in it, and hence fulfills all the requirements necessary for a perfect Absurd drama.\n\nPlays within this group are absurd in that they focus not on logical acts, realistic occurrences, or traditional character development; they, instead, focus on human beings trapped in an incomprehensible world subject to any occurrence, no matter how illogical. The theme of incomprehensibility is coupled with the inadequacy of language to form meaningful human connections. According to Martin Esslin, Absurdism is \"the inevitable devaluation of ideals, purity, and purpose\" Absurdist drama asks its viewer to \"draw his own conclusions, make his own errors\". Though Theatre of the Absurd may be seen as nonsense, they have something to say and can be understood\". Esslin makes a distinction between the dictionary definition of absurd (\"out of harmony\" in the musical sense) and drama's understanding of the Absurd: \"Absurd is that which is devoid of purpose... Cut off from his religious, metaphysical, and transcendental roots, man is lost; all his actions become senseless, absurd, useless\".\n\nThe characters in Absurdist drama are lost and floating in an incomprehensible universe and they abandon rational devices and discursive thought because these approaches are inadequate. Many characters appear as automatons stuck in routines speaking only in cliché (Ionesco called the Old Man and Old Woman in \"The Chairs\" \"uber-marrionettes\"). Characters are frequently stereotypical, archetypal, or flat character types as in Commedia dell'arte.\n\nThe more complex characters are in crisis because the world around them is incomprehensible. Many of Pinter's plays, for example, feature characters trapped in an enclosed space menaced by some force the character can't understand. Pinter's first play was \"The Room\" – in which the main character, Rose, is menaced by Riley who invades her safe space though the actual source of menace remains a mystery – and this theme of characters in a safe space menaced by an outside force is repeated in many of his later works (perhaps most famously in \"The Birthday Party\"). In Friedrich Dürrenmatt's \"The Visit\" the main character, Alfred, is menaced by Claire Zachanassian; Claire, richest woman in the world with a decaying body and multiple husbands throughout the play, has guaranteed a payout for anyone in the town willing to kill Alfred. Characters in Absurdist drama may also face the chaos of a world that science and logic have abandoned. Ionesco's recurring character Berenger, for example, faces a killer without motivation in \"The Killer\", and Berenger's logical arguments fail to convince the killer that killing is wrong. In \"Rhinocéros\", Berenger remains the only human on Earth who hasn’t turned into a rhinoceros and must decide whether or not to conform. Characters may find themselves trapped in a routine, or in a metafictional conceit, trapped in a story; the title characters in Tom Stoppard's \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\", for example, find themselves in a story (\"Hamlet\") in which the outcome has already been written.\n\nThe plots of many Absurdist plays feature characters in interdependent pairs, commonly either two males or a male and a female. Some Beckett scholars call this the \"pseudocouple\". The two characters may be roughly equal or have a begrudging interdependence (like Vladimir and Estragon in \"Waiting for Godot\" or the two main characters in \"Rosencrantz & Guildenstern Are Dead\"); one character may be clearly dominant and may torture the passive character (like Pozzo and Lucky in \"Waiting for Godot\" or Hamm and Clov in \"Endgame\"); the relationship of the characters may shift dramatically throughout the play (as in Ionesco's \"The Lesson\" or in many of Albee's plays, \"The Zoo Story\" for example).\n\nDespite its reputation for nonsense language, much of the dialogue in Absurdist plays is naturalistic. The moments when characters resort to nonsense language or clichés—when words appear to have lost their denotative function, thus creating misunderstanding among the characters—make the Theatre of the Absurd distinctive. Language frequently gains a certain phonetic, rhythmical, almost musical quality, opening up a wide range of often comedic playfulness. Jean Tardieu, for example, in the series of short pieces \"Theatre de Chambre\" arranged the language as one arranges music. Distinctively Absurdist language ranges from meaningless clichés to vaudeville-style word play to meaningless nonsense. \"The Bald Soprano\", for example, was inspired by a language book in which characters would exchange empty clichés that never ultimately amounted to true communication or true connection. Likewise, the characters in \"The Bald Soprano\"—like many other Absurdist characters—go through routine dialogue full of clichés without actually communicating anything substantive or making a human connection. In other cases, the dialogue is purposefully elliptical; the language of Absurdist Theater becomes secondary to the poetry of the concrete and objectified images of the stage. Many of Beckett's plays devalue language for the sake of the striking tableau. Harold Pinter—famous for his \"Pinter pause\"—presents more subtly elliptical dialogue; often the primary things characters should address are replaced by ellipsis or dashes. The following exchange between Aston and Davies in \"The Caretaker\" is typical of Pinter:\n\nMuch of the dialogue in Absurdist drama (especially in Beckett's and Albee's plays, for example) reflects this kind of evasiveness and inability to make a connection. When language that is apparently nonsensical appears, it also demonstrates this disconnection. It can be used for comic effect, as in Lucky's long speech in \"Godot\" when Pozzo says Lucky is demonstrating a talent for \"thinking\" as other characters comically attempt to stop him:\n\nNonsense may also be used abusively, as in Pinter's \"The Birthday Party\" when Goldberg and McCann torture Stanley with apparently nonsensical questions and non-sequiturs:\n\nAs in the above examples, nonsense in Absurdist theatre may be also used to demonstrate the limits of language while questioning or parodying the determinism of science and the knowability of truth. In Ionesco's \"The Lesson\", a professor tries to force a pupil to understand his nonsensical philology lesson:\n\nTraditional plot structures are rarely a consideration in The Theatre of the Absurd. Plots can consist of the absurd repetition of cliché and routine, as in \"Godot\" or \"The Bald Soprano\". Often there is a menacing outside force that remains a mystery; in \"The Birthday Party\", for example, Goldberg and McCann confront Stanley, torture him with absurd questions, and drag him off at the end, but it is never revealed why. In later Pinter plays, such as \"The Caretaker\" and \"The Homecoming\", the menace is no longer entering from the outside but exists within the confined space. Other Absurdists use this kind of plot, as in Edward Albee's \"A Delicate Balance\": Harry and Edna take refuge at the home of their friends Agnes and Tobias because they suddenly become frightened. They have difficulty explaining what has frightened them:\n\nAbsence, emptiness, nothingness, and unresolved mysteries are central features in many Absurdist plots: for example, in \"The Chairs\" an old couple welcomes a large number of guests to their home, but these guests are invisible so all we see is empty chairs, a representation of their absence. Likewise, the action of \"Godot\" is centered around the absence of a man named Godot, for whom the characters perpetually wait. In many of Beckett's later plays, most features are stripped away and what's left is a minimalistic tableau: a woman walking slowly back and forth in \"Footfalls\", for example, or in \"Breath\" only a junk heap on stage and the sounds of breathing.\n\nThe plot may also revolve around an unexplained metamorphosis, a supernatural change, or a shift in the laws of physics. For example, in Ionesco's \"Amédée, or How to Get Rid of It\", a couple must deal with a corpse that is steadily growing larger and larger; Ionesco never fully reveals the identity of the corpse, how this person died, or why it's continually growing, but the corpse ultimately – and, again, without explanation – floats away. In Jean Tardieu's \"The Keyhole\" a lover watches a woman through a keyhole as she removes her clothes and then her flesh.\n\nLike Pirandello, many Absurdists use meta-theatrical techniques to explore role fulfillment, fate, and the theatricality of theatre. This is true for many of Genet's plays: for example, in \"The Maids\", two maids pretend to be their mistress; in \"The Balcony\" brothel patrons take on elevated positions in role-playing games, but the line between theatre and reality starts to blur. Another complex example of this is \"Rosencrantz and Guildenstern are Dead\": it's a play about two minor characters in \"Hamlet\"; these characters, in turn, have various encounters with the players who perform \"The Mousetrap\", the play-within-the-play in \"Hamlet\". In Stoppard's \"Travesties\", James Joyce and Tristan Tzara slip in and out of the plot of \"The Importance of Being Earnest\".\n\nPlots are frequently cyclical: for example, \"Endgame\" begins where the play ended – at the beginning of the play, Clov says, \"Finished, it's finished, nearly finished, it must be nearly finished\" – and themes of cycle, routine, and repetition are explored throughout.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7199355", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7199355", "title": "Tone (literature)", "text": "Tone (literature)\n\nIn literature, the tone of a literary work is the effect that the writer creates on the readers through choice of writing style. The overall objective is to express an attitude or certain feelings about the subject matter.\n\nDepending upon the personality of the writer and the effect the writer wants to create, the work can be formal or informal, sober or whimsical, assertive or pleading, straightforward or sly. In determining the attitude, mood, or tone of an author, examine the specific diction used. Is the author using adjectives to describe the subject? If so, are they words like \"fragrant, tranquil, magnanimous\"—words with positive connotations? Or are they words like \"fetid, ruffled, stingy\"—words with negative connotations?\n\nWhen we speak, our tone of voice conveys our mood—frustrated, cheerful, critical, gloomy, or angry. When we write, our images and descriptive phrases get our feelings across—guarded optimism, unqualified enthusiasm, objective indifference, resignation, or dissatisfaction. Other examples of literary tone are: airy, comic, condescending, facetious, funny, heavy, intimate, ironic, light, playful, sad, serious, sinister, solemn, somber, threatening.\n\nTone and mood are not the same, although they are frequently confused. The mood of a piece of literature is the feeling or atmosphere created by the work, or, said slightly differently, how the work makes the reader feel. Mood is produced most effectively through the use of setting, theme, voice and tone, while tone is how the author feels about something.\n\nAll pieces of literature, even official documents and technical documents, have some sort of tone. Authors create tone through the use of various other literary elements, such as \"diction\" or word choice; \"syntax\", the grammatical arrangement of words in a text for effect; \"imagery\", or vivid appeals to the senses; \"details\", facts that are included or omitted; and \"figurative language\", the comparison of seemingly unrelated things for sub-textual purposes.\n\nWhile now used to discuss literature, the term tone was originally applied solely to music. This appropriated word has come to represent attitudes and feelings a speaker (in poetry), a narrator (in fiction), or an author (in non-literary prose) has towards the subject, situation, and/or the intended audience. It is important to recognize that the speaker, or narrator is not to be confused with the author and that attitudes and feelings of the speaker or narrator should not be confused with those of the author. In general, the tone of a piece only refers to attitude of the author if writing is non-literary in nature.\n\nIn many cases, the tone of a work may change and shift as the speaker or narrator’s perspective on a particular subject alters throughout the piece.\n\nOfficial and technical documentation tends to employ a formal tone throughout the piece.\n\nAuthors set a tone in literature by conveying emotions/feelings through words. The way a person feels about an idea/concept, event, or another person can be quickly determined through facial expressions, gestures and in the tone of voice used. In literature an author sets the tone through words. The possible tones are bounded only by the number of possible emotions a human being can have.\n\nDiction and syntax often dictate what the author's (or character's) attitude toward his subject is at the time. An example: \"Charlie surveyed the classroom but it was really his mother congratulating himself for snatching the higher test grade, the smug smirk on his face growing brighter and brighter as he confirmed the inferiority of his peers.\"\n\nThe tone here is one of arrogance; the quip \"inferiority of his peers\" shows Charlie's belief in his own prowess. The words \"surveyed\" and \"congratulating himself\" show Charlie as seeing himself better than the rest of his class. The diction, including the word \"snatching\", gives the reader a mental picture of someone quickly and effortlessly grabbing something, which proves once again Charlie's pride in himself. The \"smug smirk\" provides a facial imagery of Charlie's pride.\n\nIn addition, using imagery in a poem is helpful to develop a poem's tone.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39563860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39563860", "title": "Transfer entropy", "text": "Transfer entropy\n\nTransfer entropy is a non-parametric statistic measuring the amount of directed (time-asymmetric) transfer of information between two random processes. Transfer entropy from a process \"X\" to another process \"Y\" is the amount of uncertainty reduced in future values of \"Y\" by knowing the past values of \"X\" given past values of \"Y\". More specifically, if formula_1 and formula_2 for formula_3 denote two random processes and the amount of information is measured using Shannon's entropy, the transfer entropy can be written as:\n\nwhere \"H\"(\"X\") is Shannon entropy of \"X\". The above definition of transfer entropy has been extended by other types of entropy measures such as Rényi entropy.\n\nTransfer entropy is conditional mutual information, with the history of the influenced variable formula_5 in the condition:\n\nTransfer entropy reduces to Granger causality for vector auto-regressive processes. Hence, it is advantageous when the model assumption of Granger causality doesn't hold, for example, analysis of non-linear signals. However, it usually requires more samples for accurate estimation.\nThe probabilities in the entropy formula can be estimated using different approaches (binning, nearest neighbors) or, in order to reduce complexity, using a non-uniform embedding.\nWhile it was originally defined for bivariate analysis, transfer entropy has been extended to multivariate forms, either conditioning on other potential source variables or considering transfer from a collection of sources, although these forms require more samples again.\n\nTransfer entropy has been used for estimation of functional connectivity of neurons and social influence in social networks.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26323787", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26323787", "title": "Transworld identity", "text": "Transworld identity\n\nTransworld Identity is the idea that objects exist in multiple possible worlds.\n\n"}
{"id": "3837790", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3837790", "title": "Trilinear coordinates", "text": "Trilinear coordinates\n\nIn geometry, the trilinear coordinates \"x:y:z\" of a point relative to a given triangle describe the relative directed distances from the three sidelines of the triangle. Trilinear coordinates are an example of homogeneous coordinates. The ratio \"x:y\" is the ratio of the perpendicular distances from the point to the sides (extended if necessary) opposite vertices \"A\" and \"B\" respectively; the ratio \"y:z\" is the ratio of the perpendicular distances from the point to the sidelines opposite vertices \"B\" and \"C\" respectively; and likewise for \"z:x\" and vertices \"C\" and \"A\".\n\nIn the diagram at right, the trilinear coordinates of the indicated interior point are the actual distances (\"a' \", \"b' \", \"c' \"), or equivalently in ratio form, \"ka' \":\"kb' \":\"kc' \" for any positive constant \"k\". If a point is on a sideline of the reference triangle, its corresponding trilinear coordinate is 0. If an exterior point is on the opposite side of a sideline from the interior of the triangle, its trilinear coordinate associated with that sideline is negative. It is impossible for all three trilinear coordinates to be non-positive.\n\nThe name \"trilinear coordinates\" is sometimes abbreviated to \"trilinears\". \n\nThe ratio notation \"x\":\"y\":\"z\" for trilinear coordinates is different from the ordered triple notation (\"a' \", \"b' \", \"c' \") for actual directed distances. Here each of \"x\", \"y\", and \"z\" has no meaning by itself; its ratio to one of the others \"does\" have meaning. Thus \"comma notation\" for trilinear coordinates should be avoided, because the notation (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\"), which means an ordered triple, does not allow, for example, (\"x\", \"y\", \"z\") = (2\"x\", 2\"y\", 2\"z\"), whereas the \"colon notation\" does allow \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" = 2\"x\" : 2\"y\" : 2\"z\".\n\nThe trilinear coordinates of the incenter of a triangle \"ABC\" are 1 : 1 : 1; that is, the (directed) distances from the incenter to the sidelines \"BC\", \"CA\", \"AB\" are proportional to the actual distances denoted by (\"r\", \"r\", \"r\"), where \"r\" is the inradius of triangle \"ABC\". Given side lengths \"a, b, c\" we have:\n\nNote that, in general, the incenter is not the same as the centroid; the centroid has barycentric coordinates 1 : 1 : 1 (these being proportional to actual signed areas of the triangles \"BGC\", \"CGA\", \"AGB\", where \"G\" = centroid.)\n\nThe midpoint of, for example, side \"BC\" has trilinear coordinates in actual sideline distances formula_1 for triangle area formula_2, which in arbitrarily specified relative distances simplifies to formula_3 The coordinates in actual sideline distances of the foot of the altitude from \"A\" to \"BC\" are formula_4 which in purely relative distances simplifies to formula_5\n\nTrilinear coordinates enable many algebraic methods in triangle geometry. For example, three points\n\nare collinear if and only if the determinant\n\nequals zero. Thus if \"x:y:z\" is a variable point, the equation of a line through the points \"P\" and \"U\" is \"D\" = 0. From this, every straight line has a linear equation homogeneous in \"x, y, z\". Every equation of the form \"lx+my+nz\" = 0 in real coefficients is a real straight line of finite points unless \"l : m: n\" is proportional to \"a : b : c\", the side lengths, in which case we have the locus of points at infinity.\n\nThe dual of this proposition is that the lines\n\nconcur in a point (α, β, γ) if and only if \"D\" = 0.\n\nAlso, if the actual directed distances are used when evaluating the determinant of \"D\", then the area of triangle \"PUX\" is \"KD\", where \"K\" = \"abc/8∆\" (and where \"∆\" is the area of triangle \"ABC\", as above) if triangle \"PUX\" has the same orientation (clockwise or counterclockwise) as triangle \"ABC\", and \"K\" = \"–abc/8∆\" otherwise.\n\nTwo lines with trilinear equations formula_7 and formula_8 are parallel if and only if\n\nwhere \"a, b, c\" are the side lengths.\n\nThe tangents of the angles between two lines with trilinear equations formula_7 and formula_8 are given by\n\nThus two lines with trilinear equations formula_7 and formula_8 are perpendicular if and only if\n\nThe equation of the altitude from vertex \"A\" to side \"BC\" is\n\nThe equation of a line with variable distances \"p, q, r\" from the vertices \"A\", \"B\", \"C\" whose opposite sides are \"a, b, c\" is\n\nThe trilinears with the coordinate values \"a', b', c' \" being the actual perpendicular distances to the sides satisfy\n\nfor triangle sides \"a, b, c\" and area formula_2. This can be seen in the figure at the top of this article, with interior point \"P\" partitioning triangle \"ABC\" into three triangles \"PBC\", \"PCA\", and \"PAB\" with respective areas (1/2)\"aa' \", (1/2)\"bb' \", and (1/2)\"cc' \".\n\nThe distance \"d\" between two points with actual-distance trilinears \"a' \" : \"b' \" : \"c' \" is given by\n\nThe distance \"d\" from a point \"a' \" : \"b' \" : \"c' \", in trilinear coordinates of actual distances, to a straight line \"lx + my + nz\" = 0 is\n\nThe equation of a conic section in the variable trilinear point \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" is\n\nIt has no linear terms and no constant term.\n\nThe equation of a circle of radius \"r\" having center at actual-distance coordinates (\"a', b', c' \") is\n\nThe equation in trilinear coordinates \"x, y, z\" of any circumconic of a triangle is\n\nIf the parameters \"l, m, n\" respectively equal the side lengths \"a, b, c\" (or the sines of the angles opposite them) then the equation gives the circumcircle.\n\nEach distinct circumconic has a center unique to itself. The equation in trilinear coordinates of the circumconic with center \"x' : y' : z' \" is\n\nEvery conic section inscribed in a triangle has an equation in trilinear coordinates\n\nwith exactly one or three of the unspecified signs being negative.\n\nThe equation of the incircle can be simplified to\n\nwhile the equation for, for example, the excircle adjacent to the side segment opposite vertex \"A\" can be written as\n\nMany cubic curves are easily represented using trilinear coordinates. For example, the pivotal self-isoconjugate cubic \"Z(U,P)\", as the locus of a point \"X\" such that the \"P\"-isoconjugate of \"X\" is on the line \"UX\" is given by the determinant equation\n\nAmong named cubics \"Z(U,P)\" are the following:\n\nFor any choice of trilinear coordinates \"x:y:z\" to locate a point, the actual distances of the point from the sidelines are given by \"a' = kx\", \"b' = ky\", \"c' = kz\" where \"k\" can be determined by the formula formula_30 in which \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" are the respective sidelengths \"BC\", \"CA\", \"AB\", and ∆ is the area of \"ABC\".\n\nA point with trilinear coordinates \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\" has barycentric coordinates \"ax\" : \"by\" : \"cz\" where \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" are the sidelengths of the triangle. Conversely, a point with barycentrics \"α\" : \"β\" : \"γ\" has trilinear coordinates \"α/a\" : \"β/b\" : \"γ/c\".\n\nGiven a reference triangle \"ABC\", express the position of the vertex \"B\" in terms of an ordered pair of Cartesian coordinates and represent this algebraically as a vector \"B\", using vertex \"C\" as the origin. Similarly define the position vector of vertex \"A\" as \"A\". Then any point \"P\" associated with the reference triangle \"ABC\" can be defined in a Cartesian system as a vector \"P\" = \"k\"\"A\" + \"k\"\"B\". If this point \"P\" has trilinear coordinates \"x : y : z\" then the conversion formula from the coefficients \"k\" and \"k\" in the Cartesian representation to the trilinear coordinates is, for side lengths \"a\", \"b\", \"c\" opposite vertices \"A\", \"B\", \"C\",\n\nand the conversion formula from the trilinear coordinates to the coefficients in the Cartesian representation is\n\nMore generally, if an arbitrary origin is chosen where the Cartesian coordinates of the vertices are known and represented by the vectors \"A\", \"B\" and \"C\" and if the point \"P\" has trilinear coordinates \"x\" : \"y\" : \"z\", then the Cartesian coordinates of \"P\" are the weighted average of the Cartesian coordinates of these vertices using the barycentric coordinates \"ax\", \"by\" and \"cz\" as the weights. Hence the conversion formula from the trilinear coordinates \"x, y, z\" to the vector of Cartesian coordinates \"P\" of the point is given by\n\nwhere the side lengths are |\"C\" − \"B\"| = \"a\", |\"A\" − \"C\"| = \"b\" and |\"B\" − \"A\"| = \"c\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18998895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18998895", "title": "U-chart", "text": "U-chart\n\nIn statistical quality control, the u-chart is a type of control chart used to monitor \"count\"-type data where the sample size is greater than one, typically the average number of nonconformities per unit.\n\nThe u-chart differs from the c-chart in that it accounts for the possibility that the number or size of inspection units for which nonconformities are to be counted may vary. Larger samples may be an economic necessity or may be necessary to increase the area of opportunity in order to track very low nonconformity levels.\n\nExamples of processes suitable for monitoring with a u-chart include:\n\nAs with the c-chart, the Poisson distribution is the basis for the chart and requires the same assumptions.\n\nThe control limits for this chart type are formula_3 where formula_4 is the estimate of the long-term process mean established during control-chart setup. The observations formula_5 are plotted against these control limits, where x is the number of nonconformities for the ith subgroup and n is the number of inspection units in the ith subgroup.\n\n"}
{"id": "166136", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=166136", "title": "Vehicle identification number", "text": "Vehicle identification number\n\nA vehicle identification number (VIN) is a unique code, including a serial number, used by the automotive industry to identify individual motor vehicles, towed vehicles, motorcycles, scooters and mopeds, as defined in ISO 3779 (content and structure) and ISO 4030 (location and attachment).\n\nVINs were first used in 1954 in the United States. From 1954 to 1981, there was no accepted standard for these numbers, so different manufacturers used different formats.\n\nIn 1981, the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration of the United States standardized the format. It required all on-road vehicles sold to contain a 17-character VIN, which does not include the letters I (i), O (o), and Q (q) (to avoid confusion with numerals 1 and 0).\n\nThere are vehicle history services in several countries that help potential car owners use VINs to find vehicles that are defective or have been written off. See the Used car article for a list of countries where this service is available.\n\nThere are at least four competing standards used to calculate the VIN.\n\nModern VINs are based on two related standards, originally issued by the International Organization for Standardization (ISO) in 1979 and 1980: ISO 3779 and ISO 3780, respectively. Compatible but different implementations of these ISO standards have been adopted by the European Union and the United States, respectively.\n\nThe VIN comprises the following sections:\n\nThe first three characters uniquely identify the manufacturer of the vehicle using the world manufacturer identifier or WMI code. A manufacturer who builds fewer than 1000 vehicles per year uses a 9 as the third digit, and the 12th, 13th and 14th position of the VIN for a second part of the identification. Some manufacturers use the third character as a code for a vehicle category (e.g., bus or truck), a division within a manufacturer, or both. For example, within 1G (assigned to General Motors in the United States), 1G1 represents Chevrolet passenger cars; 1G2, Pontiac passenger cars; and 1GC, Chevrolet trucks.\n\nThe Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) in the U.S. assigns WMIs to countries and manufacturers.\n\nThe first character of the WMI is the region in which the manufacturer is located. In practice, each is assigned to a country of manufacture, although in Europe the country where the continental headquarters is located can assign the WMI to all vehicles produced in that region (Example: Opel/Vauxhall cars whether produced in Germany, Spain, the United Kingdom or Poland carry a WMI of \"W0L\" because Adam Opel AG is based in Rüsselsheim, Germany).\n\nIn the notation below, assume that letters precede numbers and that zero is the last number. For example, 8X–82 denotes the range 8X, 8Y, 8Z, 81, 82, excluding 80.\nThe fourth to ninth positions in the VIN are the vehicle descriptor section or VDS. This is used, according to local regulations, to identify the vehicle type, and may include information on the automobile platform used, the model, and the body style. Each manufacturer has a unique system for using this field. Most manufacturers since the 1980s have used the eighth digit to identify the engine type whenever there is more than one engine choice for the vehicle. Example: for the 2007 Chevrolet Corvette, U is for a 6.0-liter V8 engine, and E is for a 7.0 L V8.\n\nOne element that is fairly consistent is the use of position nine as a check digit, compulsory for vehicles in North America and China, and used fairly consistently elsewhere.\n\nThe 10th to 17th positions are used as the 'vehicle identifier section' (VIS). This is used by the manufacturer to identify the individual vehicle in question. This may include information on options installed or engine and transmission choices, but often is a simple sequential number. In North America, the last five digits must be numeric.\n\nOne consistent element of the VIS is the 10th digit, which is required worldwide to encode the model year of the vehicle. Besides the three letters that are not allowed in the VIN itself (I, O and Q), the letters U and Z and the digit 0 are not used for the model year code. The year code is the model year for the vehicle.\n\nThe year 1980 was encoded by some manufacturers, especially General Motors and Chrysler, as \"A\" (since the 17-digit VIN was not mandatory until 1981, and the \"A\" or zero was in the manufacturer's pre-1981 placement in the VIN), yet Ford and AMC still used a zero for 1980. Subsequent years increment through the allowed letters, so that \"Y\" represents the year 2000. 2001 to 2009 are encoded as the digits 1 to 9, and subsequent years are encoded as \"A\", \"B\", \"C\", etc.\n\nOn April 30, 2008, the US National Highway Traffic Safety Administration adopted a final rule amending 49 CFR Part 565, \"so that the current 17 character vehicle identification number (VIN) system, which has been in place for almost 30 years, can continue in use for at least another 30 years\", in the process making several changes to the VIN requirements applicable to all motor vehicles manufactured for sale in the United States. There are three notable changes to the VIN structure that affect VIN deciphering systems:\n\nCompulsory in North America and China is the use of the 11th character to identify the factory at which the vehicle was built. Each manufacturer has its own set of plant codes.\n\nIn the United States and China, the 12th to 17th digits are the vehicle's serial or production number. This is unique to each vehicle, and every manufacturer uses its own sequence.\n\nCheck-digit validation is compulsory for all road vehicles sold in North America.\n\nWhen trying to validate a VIN with a check digit, first either (a) remove the check digit for the purpose of calculation or (b) use a weight of zero (see below) to cancel it out. The original value of the check digit is then compared with the calculated value. If the calculated value is 0–9, the check digit must match the calculated value. If the calculated value is 10, the check digit must be X. If the two values do not match (and there was no error in the calculation), then there is a mistake in the VIN. However, a match does not prove the VIN is correct, because there is still a 1/11 chance that any two distinct VINs have a matching check digit: for example, the valid VINs 5GZCZ43D13S812715 (correct with leading five) and SGZCZ43D13S812715 (incorrect with leading character \"S\"). The VINs in the Porsche image, WP0ZZZ99ZTS392124, and the GM-T body image, KLATF08Y1VB363636, do not pass the North American check-digit verification.\n\nTransliteration consists of removing all of the letters, and replacing them with their appropriate numerical counterparts. These numerical alternatives (based on IBM's EBCDIC) are in the following chart. \"I\", \"O\", and \"Q\" are not allowed in a valid VIN; for this chart, they have been filled in with \"N/A\" (\"not applicable\"). Numerical digits use their own values.\n\n\"S\" is 2, and not 1. There is no left-alignment linearity.\n\nThe following is the weight factor for each position in the VIN. The 9th position is that of the check digit. It has been substituted with a 0, which will cancel it out in the multiplication step.\n\nConsider the hypothetical VIN 1M8GDM9A_KP042788, where the underscore will be the check digit.\n\n\nWith a check digit of \"X\", the VIN 1M8GDM9A_KP042788 is written 1M8GDM9A\"X\"KP042788.\n\nA VIN with \"straight-ones\" (seventeen consecutive \"1\"s) has the nice feature that its check digit \"1\" matches the calculated value \"1\". This is because a value of one multiplied by 89 (sum of weights) is 89, and 89 divided by 11 is 8 with remainder ; thus 1 is the check digit. This is a way to test a VIN-check algorithm.\n\n\nVINs may be optically read with barcode scanners or digital cameras, or digitally read via OBD-II in newer vehicles. There are smartphone applications that can pass the VIN to websites to decode the VIN.\n\nThe Society of Automotive Engineers (SAE) assigns the WMI (world manufacturer identifier) to countries and manufacturers. The following list shows a small selection of world manufacturer codes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "380286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=380286", "title": "Wit", "text": "Wit\n\nWit is a form of intelligent humour, the ability to say or write things that are clever and usually funny. A wit is a person skilled at making clever and funny remarks. Forms of wit include the quip, repartee, and wisecrack.\n\nAs in the wit of Dorothy Parker's set, the Algonquin Round Table, witty remarks may be intentionally cruel (as in many epigrams), and perhaps more ingenious than funny.\n\nA quip is an observation or saying that has some wit but perhaps descends into sarcasm, or otherwise is short of a point, and a witticism also suggests the diminutive. Repartee is the wit of the quick answer and capping comment: the snappy comeback and neat retort. (Wilde: \"I wish I'd said that.\" Whistler: \"You will, Oscar, you will\".)\n\nWit in poetry is characteristic of metaphysical poetry as a style, and was prevalent in the time of English playwright Shakespeare, who admonished pretension with the phrase \"Better a witty fool than a foolish wit\". It may combine word play with conceptual thinking, as a kind of verbal display requiring attention, without intending to be laugh-aloud funny; in fact wit can be a thin disguise for more poignant feelings that are being versified. English poet John Donne is the representative of this style of poetry.\n\nMore generally, one's wits are one's intellectual powers of all types. Native wit — meaning the wits with which one is born — is closely synonymous with common sense. To live by one's wits is to be an opportunist, but not always of the scrupulous kind. To have one's wits about one is to be alert and capable of quick reasoning. To be at the end of one's wits (\"I'm at my wits' end\") is to be immensely frustrated.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2268360", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2268360", "title": "X̅ and R chart", "text": "X̅ and R chart\n\nIn statistical quality control, the formula_3 and R chart is a type of control chart used to monitor variables data when samples are collected at regular intervals from a business or industrial process.\n\nThe chart is advantageous in the following situations:\n\nThe \"chart\" actually consists of a pair of charts: One to monitor the process standard deviation (as approximated by the sample moving range) and another to monitor the process mean, as is done with the formula_3 and s and individuals control charts. The formula_3 and R chart plots the mean value for the quality characteristic across all units in the sample, formula_7, plus the range of the quality characteristic across all units in the sample as follows:\n\nThe normal distribution is the basis for the charts and requires the following assumptions:\n\nThe control limits for this chart type are:\n\nAs with the formula_3 and s and individuals control charts, the formula_3 chart is only valid if the within-sample variability is constant. Thus, the R chart is examined before the formula_3 chart; if the R chart indicates the sample variability is in statistical control, then the formula_3 chart is examined to determine if the sample mean is also in statistical control. If on the other hand, the sample variability is \"not\" in statistical control, then the entire process is judged to be not in statistical control regardless of what the formula_3 chart indicates.\n\n"}
