{"id": "17801806", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17801806", "title": "Arthur Berson", "text": "Arthur Berson\n\nArthur Josef Stanislaus Berson (6 August 1859 – 3 December 1942) was a German meteorologist and pioneer of aerology who was a native of Neu Sandez, Galicia (now Nowy Sącz, Poland).\n\nAfter visiting the gymnasium in Neu Sandez, Berson studied philology in Vienna. He then studied meteorology and geography in Berlin, where he had as instructors Ferdinand von Richthofen and Wilhelm von Bezold. In 1890 he was an assistant to meteorologist Richard Aßmann at the Meteorological Institute in Berlin. During this period of time he was also secretary of the \"Deutschen Verein zur Förderung der Luftschiffahrt\", the first aeronautical organization in Germany. In 1900 he became \"Hauptobservator\" at the newly founded Aeronautics Observatory in Berlin-Tegel, and was later stationed at the Lindenberg Aeronautical Observatory in Beeskow. From 1896 to 1899 Berson was editor of the magazine \"Zeitschrift für Luftfahrt und Physik der Atmosphäre\" (Magazine for Aviation and Physics of the Atmosphere).\n\nBerson is largely known for his scientific hot-air balloon expeditions. On 4 December 1894, he ascended to a then-record altitude of 9,155 meters aboard the hydrogen balloon \"Phoenix\". On 10 January 1901, with artillery officer Alfred Hildebrandt (1870–1949), he travelled from Berlin to Markaryd, Sweden in a balloon, thus being the first to cross the Baltic Sea by air. On 10 January 1902, with balloonist Hermann Elias (1876–1955), he set the German long-distance ballooning record, as the two men journeyed from Berlin to Poltava in the central Ukraine (1,470 kilometers in 30 hours).\n\nDuring the 1890s, he was involved in international \"simultaneous ascents\" with balloonists from other nations. These ascents were performed in order to study variances of climatic conditions above different locations in Europe, to work to bring about uniformity in methods of observation, and to create increased cooperation among nations in the new science of aerology.\nOn 31 July 1901, with meteorologist Reinhard Süring, he took his most celebrated ascent. Starting from Berlin-Tempelhof aboard the \"Preussen\", Berson and Süring ultimately reached a height of 10,800 meters above sea level. At 6000 m. they required compressed oxygen, at 10,000 m. both scientists were rendered unconscious, and after regaining consciousness were able to land their balloon near Briesen, 7.5 hours after their flight began. Their record ascent had significant scientific importance. Climatic data taken from simultaneously released unmanned sounding balloons agreed with the information gathered from the Berson/Süring ascent. Now scientists such as Richard Aßmann no longer had any reason to distrust temperature readings taken from unmanned balloons, an important factor that led to the discovery of the stratosphere by Aßmann and Teisserenc de Bort in 1902.\n\nAnother important aspect of high-altitude flight involved physiological problems that balloonists could experience when exposed to conditions at great heights. Here, Berson assisted physiologists Hermann von Schrötter and Nathan Zuntz with pioneer experiments in the field of aviation medicine. He undertook high-altitude balloon ascents with the two physiologists, and conducted studies of decompression sickness with a pneumatic chamber located at the \"Jüdischen Krankenhaus\" (Jewish Hospital) in Berlin.\n\nOther significant accomplishments by Berson include climatic studies with weather kites off of Svalbard, pioneer meteorological observations from German East Africa, and aerological research over the Amazon Basin.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50598657", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50598657", "title": "Bentler Nature Park", "text": "Bentler Nature Park\n\nBentler Nature Park () is a nature park located in Sarıyer district of Istanbul Province, Turkey. Bentler means \"dams\" in Turkish language.\n\nSituated from Bahçeköy neighborhood of Sarıyer, it covers an area of . It was established in 2011, and is one of the nine nature parks inside the Belgrad Forest. The protected area is named after the historic dams, the Topuzlu Dam (Topuzlu Bendi, built 1750), Valide Dam (Valide Bendi, built 1796) and New Dam (Yeni Bent or II. Mahmud Bendi, built 1839), which are located north of the park area. There are other structures as the Iskara Bendi and historical fountains from the Ottoman Empire era. Bentler Nature Park has two entrances, the main entrance of Belgrad Forest and Kurtkemeri Gate.\n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreation activities such as hiking, cycling and picnicing for visitors on daily basis. There are playgrounds for children. Admission is charged for visitors and vehicles.\n\nThe nature park is rich on flora and fauna.\n\nMain tree species are oak (\"Quercus petraea\") and hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\"). A 269-year old plane tree (\"Platanus\") next to the Valide Dam was registered as a monument.\n\nThe park is habitat for diverse plant species. As coniferous tree Turkish pine (\"Pinus brutia\"), as deciduous trees oriental plane (\"Platanus orientalis\"), silver linden (\"Tilia argentea\"), European hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\"), oriental beech (\"Fagus orientalis\"), kasnak oak (\"Quercus vulcanica\"), Turkey oak (\"Quercus cerris\"), Aleppo oak (\"Quercus infectoria\"), European ash (\"Fraxinus excelsior\"), sweet chestnut (\"Castanea sativa\"), alder (\"Alnus orientalis\"), blackthorn (\"Prunus spinosa\"), medlar (\"Mespilus germanica\"), Turkish hazel (\"Corylus colurna\") are found in the park. Shrubs of the nature park are blackberry (\"Rubus plicatus\"), butcher's-broom (\"Ruscus aculeatus\") and buttercup (\"Clematis\").\n\nThe main fauna of the nature park consists of the mammals wild boar (\"Sus scrofa\"), fox (\"Vulpes vulpes\"), deer (\"Cervidae\"), roe deer (\"Capreolus capreolus\"), hare (\"Lepus\"), chipmunk, the reptile turtle. Observed bird species are hawk, sparrow, finch, mappie.\n\n"}
{"id": "3286181", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3286181", "title": "Bergen School of Meteorology", "text": "Bergen School of Meteorology\n\nThe \"Bergen School of Meteorology\" is a school of thought which is the basis for much of modern weather forecasting.\n\nFounded by the meteorologist Prof. Vilhelm Bjerknes and his younger colleagues in 1917, the Bergen School attempts to define the motion of the atmosphere by means of the mathematics of interactions between hydro- and thermodynamics, some of which had originally been discovered or explained by Bjerknes himself, thus making mathematical predictions regarding the weather possible by systematic data analysis. Much of the work was done at the Geophysical Institute, University of Bergen, in Bergen, Norway.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "26123160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26123160", "title": "Bifurcation lake", "text": "Bifurcation lake\n\nA bifurcation lake is a lake that has outflows into two different drainage basins and thus the drainage divide cannot be defined exactly because it is situated in the middle of the lake.\n\nVesijako (the name \"Vesijako\" actually means \"drainage divide\") and Lummene in the Finnish Lakeland are two nearby lakes in Finland. Both drain in two directions: into the Kymijoki basin that drains into the Gulf of Finland and into the Kokemäenjoki basin that drains into the Gulf of Bothnia. \n\nSimilarly the lakes Isojärvi and Inhottu in the Karvianjoki basin in the Satakunta region of western Finland both have two outlets: from Inhottu the waters flow into the Gulf of Bothnia through the Eteläjoki River in Pori and into lake Isojärvi through the Pomarkunjoki River. From lake Isojärvi the waters flow to the Gulf of Bothnia through the Pohjajoki river in Pori and through the Merikarvianjoki river in Merikarvia. In the Karvianjoki basin there have formerly been two other bifurcations, which no longer exist due to human action.\n\nAnother example is Bontecou Lake, a shallow, man-made bifurcation lake in Dutchess County, New York.\n\nLake Diefenbaker in Saskatchewan is a reservoir created by damming South Saskatchewan River and Qu'Appelle River. The lake continues to drain into the two rivers, but the Qu'Appelle receives a much enlarged flow (in essence, a diversion of flow from the South Saskatchewan) due to the damming. Both rivers eventually drain into Hudson Bay via Lake Winnipeg and the Nelson River. Also located in Saskatchewan is Wollaston Lake, which is the source of Fond du Lac River draining into the Arctic Ocean and of Cochrane River draining into Hudson Bay and the Atlantic Ocean.\n\nIsa Lake in Yellowstone National Park is a natural bifurcated lake which drains into two oceans. Its western drainage is to the Gulf of Mexico (part of the Atlantic Ocean) via the Firehole River, while its eastern drainage is to the Pacific Ocean via the Lewis River.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "663458", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=663458", "title": "Black drop effect", "text": "Black drop effect\n\nThe black drop effect is an optical phenomenon visible during a transit of Venus and, to a lesser extent, a transit of Mercury.\n\nJust after second contact, and again just before third contact during the transit, a small black \"teardrop\" appears to connect Venus' disk to the limb of the Sun, making it impossible to time the exact moment of second or third contact accurately. This led to the failure of the attempts during the 18th century transits of Venus to establish a truly precise value for the astronomical unit.\n\nThe black drop effect was long thought to be due to Venus' thick atmosphere, and indeed it was held to be the first real evidence that Venus had an atmosphere. However, it is now thought by many to be an optical effect caused by the combination of the extreme darkening of the sun's disk near its apparent edge and the intrinsic imperfection of the viewing apparatus.\n\nObserving Mercury simultaneously during its transit in May 1832 with different instruments, Bessel and Argelander noticed a black drop effect (without then using this term) with that instrument of less resolution. With precise measurements, a black drop effect was observed from outside the Earth's atmosphere during the 1999 and 2003 transits of Mercury, although Mercury has no significant atmosphere.\n\nIn the 8 June 2004 transit of Venus, many observers reported that they did not see the black drop effect, or at least that it was much less pronounced than had been reported in earlier centuries' transits. Larger telescopes, better optics, and limb darkening may have been factors.\n\n"}
{"id": "4949320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4949320", "title": "British Valve Association", "text": "British Valve Association\n\nThe British radio and Valve manufacturers Association (BVA) was a cartel of valve manufacturers in the United Kingdom of Great Britain and Northern Ireland (UK) that was designed to protect their interests from foreign competition. This cartel dictated (among other things), the price of valves (vacuum tubes) and how they were numbered (supposedly designed to make it difficult to identify American equivalents, which were typically half the price [retail] in the United States of America [USA]); however USA types manufactured in the UK by companies such as Brimar sold at the same price as their UK counterparts due to the BVA's insistence. All manufacturers eventually published their own lists of 'equivalents' between their own valves and those of other manufacturers including American types, so cross-referencing became easy, in the UK at least. \n\nThe BVA dictated that no more than one electrode structure could be contained within one envelope. This latter point was because the BVA levied a charge of initially £1 per valveholder, to cover royalties on any of its members' patent rights. Pressure from set makers for multi-structure valves to overcome the BVA's edict led to British and European manufacturers introducing many multi-structure valves and these eventually became the norm. \n\nThe British radio set makers were now able to adopt multi-structure valve designs. One German manufacturer produced a multi-structure valve that contained not only all the electrode structures for a complete radio receiver, but many of the passive components as well.\n"}
{"id": "3997493", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3997493", "title": "CMBFAST", "text": "CMBFAST\n\nIn physical cosmology, CMBFAST is a computer code, written by Uros Seljak and Matias Zaldarriaga, for computing the anisotropy of the cosmic microwave background. It was the first efficient program to do so, reducing the time taken to compute the anisotropy from several days to a few minutes by using a novel semi-analytic line-of-sight approach.\n\n"}
{"id": "22629902", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22629902", "title": "Cerium anomaly", "text": "Cerium anomaly\n\nThe cerium anomaly, in geochemistry, is the phenomenon whereby cerium (Ce) concentration is either depleted or enriched in a rock relative to the other rare-earth elements (REEs).\nA Ce anomaly is said to be \"negative\" if Ce is depleted relative to the other REEs and is said to be \"positive\" if Ce is enriched relative to the other REEs.\n\nCerium is a rare-earth element (lanthanide) characterized by two different redox states: III and IV. Contrary to other lanthanide elements, which are only trivalent (with the notable exception of Eu), Ce can be oxidized by atmospheric oxygen (O) to Ce under alkaline conditions.\n\nThe cerium anomaly relates to the decrease in solubility, which accompanies the oxidation of Ce(III) to Ce(IV). Under reducing conditions, Ce is relatively soluble, while under oxidizing conditions CeO precipitates. Sediments deposited under oxic or anoxic conditions can preserve on the long term the geochemical signature of Ce or Ce upon reserve that no early diagenetic transformation altered it.\n\nCerium can occur in nature as a 3+ or 4+ ion and is a compatible element (at 4+ valency) in zircon and less commonly in silica. Thomas \"et al.\", (2003) state that “terrestrial zircons commonly show a positive Ce anomaly due to the incorporation of Ce into zircon, which is because Ce has the same charge and a similar ionic radius than Zr (Ce = 0.97 Å; Zr = 0.84 Å)”. As such, Ce is incorporated into zircon much more easily than the larger Ce (ionic radius = 1.143 Å). \n\nThis shows that both Ce and Ce are present and that the Ce being compatible in zircon is causing the anomaly. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "53704829", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53704829", "title": "Climate of the Past", "text": "Climate of the Past\n\nClimate of the Past is an open-access peer-reviewed scientific journal publishing research within Earth science.\n\nThis journal is indexed in the following databases:\n\nAccording to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2015 impact factor of 3.638.\n"}
{"id": "2051536", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2051536", "title": "Corona (optical phenomenon)", "text": "Corona (optical phenomenon)\n\nIn meteorology, a corona (plural \"coronae\") is an optical phenomenon produced by the diffraction of sunlight or moonlight (or, occasionally, bright starlight or planetlight) by individual small water droplets and sometimes tiny ice crystals of a cloud or on a foggy glass surface. In its full form, a corona consists of several concentric, pastel-colored rings around the celestial object and a central bright area called \"aureole\". The aureole is often (especially in case of the Moon) the only visible part of the corona and has the appearance of a bluish-white disk which fades to reddish-brown towards the edge. The angular diameter of a corona depends on the sizes of the water droplets involved; smaller droplets produce larger coronae. For the same reason, the corona is the most pronounced when the size of the droplets is most uniform. Coronae differ from halos in that the latter are formed by refraction (rather than diffraction) from comparatively large rather than small ice crystals.\n\nPollen suspended in the air can also cause diffraction of sunlight that produces coronae. Because pollen grains are not always spherical, the resulting pollen coronae often have characteristic elliptic shape and brighter spots in them. They can be seen during blooming season where there is significant source of pollen like forests. They are more easily seen during sunset or sunrise as there is less sun glare and the light path through pollen laden atmosphere is longer.\n\n"}
{"id": "18960512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18960512", "title": "Dian Grueneich", "text": "Dian Grueneich\n\nDian M. Grueneich was one of the five commissioners of the California Public Utilities Commission (CPUC), which regulates utilities and common carriers in California. She was appointed to a six-year term by Governor Arnold Schwarzenegger in January 2005 and unanimously confirmed by the State Senate in May 2005. \n\nAs commissioner she oversees the implementation of utility energy efficiency programs. She helps to develop incentives that reward energy utilities for energy efficiency efforts as part of climate change action plans for California. She has pushed for consumer-friendly cell-phone regulation and has tried to force electrical companies to make more use of renewable energy sources.\n\nPrior to her appointment with the CPUC, Grueneich served as a Board member of the American Council for an Energy-Efficient Economy and is a past president of the California League of Conservation Voters. \n\nGrueneich earned a Juris Doctorate from Georgetown University Law Center in 1977 and a Bachelor of Arts degree in Human Biology from Stanford University in 1974. She is a recipient of the Charles Percy Award for Public Service.\n\n"}
{"id": "551731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=551731", "title": "Electrification", "text": "Electrification\n\nElectrification is the process of powering by electricity and, in many contexts, the introduction of such power by changing over from an earlier power source. The broad meaning of the term, such as in the history of technology, economic history, and economic development, usually applies to a region or national economy. Broadly speaking, electrification was the build-out of the electricity generation and electric power distribution systems that occurred in Britain, the United States, and other now-developed countries from the mid-1880s until around 1950 and is still in progress in rural areas in some developing countries. This included the transition in manufacturing from line shaft and belt drive using steam engines and water power to electric motors.\n\nThe electrification of particular sectors of the economy is called by terms such as \"factory electrification\", \"household electrification\", \"rural electrification\" or \"railway electrification\". It may also apply to changing industrial processes such as smelting, melting, separating or refining from coal or coke heating, or chemical processes to some type of electric process such as electric arc furnace, electric induction or resistance heating, or electrolysis or electrolytic separating.\n\nElectrification was called \"the greatest engineering achievement of the 20th Century\" by the National Academy of Engineering.\n\nThe earliest commercial uses of electricity were electroplating and the telegraph.\n\nIn the years of 1831–1832, Michael Faraday discovered the operating principle of electromagnetic generators. The principle, later called Faraday's law, is that an electromotive force is generated in an electrical conductor that is subjected to a varying magnetic flux, as for example, a wire moving through a magnetic field. He also built the first electromagnetic generator, called the Faraday disk, a type of homopolar generator, using a copper disc rotating between the poles of a horseshoe magnet. It produced a small DC voltage.\n\nAround 1832, Hippolyte Pixii improved the magneto by using a wire wound horseshoe, with the extra coils of conductor generating more current, but it was AC. André-Marie Ampère suggested a means of converting current from Pixii's magneto to DC using a rocking switch. Later segmented commutators were used to produce direct current.\n\nWilliam Fothergill Cooke and Charles Wheatstone developed a telegraph around 1838-40. In 1840 Wheatstone was using a magneto that he developed to power the telegraph. Wheatstone and Cooke made an important improvement in electrical generation by using a battery-powered electromagnet in place of a permanent magnet, which they patented in 1845. The self-excited magnetic field dynamo did away with the battery to power electromagnets. This type of dynamo was made by several people in 1866.\n\nThe first practical generator, the Gramme machine was made by Z.T Gramme, who sold many of these machines in the 1870s. British engineer R. E. B. Crompton improved the generator to allow better air cooling and made other mechanical improvements. Compound winding, which gave more stable voltage with load, improved operating characteristics of generators.\n\nThe improvements in electrical generation technology increased the efficiency and reliability greatly in the 19th century. The first magnetos only converted a few percent of mechanical energy to electricity. By the end of the 19th century the highest efficiencies were over 90%.\n\nSir Humphry Davy invented the carbon arc lamp in 1802 upon discovering that electricity could produce a light arc with carbon electrodes. However, it was not used to any great extent until a practical means of generating electricity was developed.\n\nCarbon arc lamps were started by making contact between two carbon electrodes, which were then separated to within a narrow gap. Because the carbon burned away, the gap had to be constantly readjusted. Several mechanisms were developed to regulate the arc. A common approach was to feed a carbon electrode by gravity and maintain the gap with a pair of electromagnets, one of which retracted the upper carbon after the arc was started and the second controlled a brake on the gravity feed.\n\nArc lamps of the time had very intense light output – in the range of 4000 candlepower (candelas) – and released a lot of heat, and they were a fire hazard, all of which made them inappropriate for lighting homes.\n\nIn the 1850s, many of these problems were solved by the arc lamp invented by William Petrie and William Staite. The lamp used a magneto-electric generator and had a self-regulating mechanism to control the gap between the two carbon rods. Their light was used to light up the National Gallery in London and was a great novelty at the time. These arc lamps and designs similar to it, powered by large magnetos, were first installed on English lighthouses in the mid 1850s, but the power limitations prevented these models from being a proper success.\n\nThe first successful arc lamp was developed by Russian engineer Pavel Yablochkov, and used the Gramme generator. Its advantage lay in the fact that it didn't require the use of a mechanical regulator like its predecessors. It was first exhibited at the Paris Exposition of 1878 and was heavily promoted by Gramme. The arc light was installed along the half mile length of Avenue de l'Opéra, Place du Theatre Francais and around the Place de l'Opéra in 1878.\n\nBritish engineer R. E. B. Crompton developed a more sophisticated design in 1878 which gave a much brighter and steadier light than the Yablochkov candle. In 1878, he formed Crompton & Co. and began to manufacture, sell and install the Crompton lamp. His concern was one of the first electrical engineering firms in the world.\n\nVarious forms of incandescent light bulbs had numerous inventors; however, the most successful early bulbs were those that used a carbon filament sealed in a high vacuum. These were invented by Joseph Swan in 1878 in Britain and by Thomas Edison in 1879 in the US. Edison’s lamp was more successful than Swan’s because Edison used a thinner filament, giving it higher resistance and thus conducting much less current. Edison began commercial production of carbon filament bulbs in 1880. Swan's light began commercial production in 1881.\n\nSwan's house, in Low Fell, Gateshead, was the world's first to have working light bulbs installed. The Lit & Phil Library in Newcastle, was the first public room lit by electric light, and the Savoy Theatre was the first public building in the world lit entirely by electricity.\n\nThe first central station providing public power is believed to be one at Godalming, Surrey, U.K. autumn 1881. The system was proposed after the town failed to reach an agreement on the rate charged by the gas company, so the town council decided to use electricity. The system lit up arc lamps on the main streets and incandescent lamps on a few side streets with hydroelectric power. By 1882 between 8 and 10 households were connected, with a total of 57 lights. The system was not a commercial success and the town reverted to gas.\n\nThe first large scale central distribution supply plant was opened at Holborn Viaduct in London in 1882. Equipped with 1000 incandescent lightbulbs that replaced the older gas lighting, the station lit up Holborn Circus including the offices of the General Post Office and the famous City Temple church. The supply was a direct current at 110V; due to power loss in the copper wires, this amounted to 100V for the customer.\n\nWithin weeks, a parliamentary committee recommended passage of the landmark 1882 Electric Lighting Act, which allowed the licensing of persons, companies or local authorities to supply electricity for any public or private purposes.\n\nThe first large scale central power station in America was Edison's Pearl Street Station in New York, which began operating in September 1882. The station had six 200 horsepower Edison dynamos, each powered by a separate steam engine. It was located in a business and commercial district and supplied 110 volt direct current to 85 customers with 400 lamps. By 1884 Pearl Street was supplying 508 customers with 10,164 lamps.\n\nBy the mid-1880s, other electric companies were establishing central power stations and distributing electricity, including Crompton & Co. and the Swan Electric Light Company in the UK, Thomson-Houston Electric Company and Westinghouse in the US and Siemens in Germany. By 1890 there were 1000 central stations in operation. The 1902 census listed 3,620 central stations. By 1925 half of power was provided by central stations.\n\nOne of the biggest problems facing the early power companies was the hourly variable demand. When lighting was practically the only use of electricity, demand was high during the first hours before the workday and the evening hours when demand peaked. As a consequence, most early electric companies did not provide daytime service, with two-thirds providing no daytime service in 1897.\n\nThe ratio of the average load to the peak load of a central station is called the load factor. For electric companies to increase profitability and lower rates, it was necessary to increase the load factor. The way this was eventually accomplished was through motor load. Motors are used more during daytime and many run continuously. (See: Continuous production.) Electric street railways were ideal for load balancing. Many electric railways generated their own power and also sold power and operated distribution systems.\n\nThe load factor adjusted upward by the turn of the 20th century—at Pearl Street the load factor increased from 19.3% in 1884 to 29.4% in 1908. By 1929, the load factor around the world was greater than 50%, mainly due to motor load.\n\nBefore widespread power distribution from central stations, many factories, large hotels, apartment and office buildings had their own power generation. Often this was economically attractive because the exhaust steam could be used for building and industrial process heat, which today is known as cogeneration or combined heat and power (CHP). Most self-generated power became uneconomical as power prices fell. As late as the early 20th century, isolated power systems greatly outnumbered central stations. Cogeneration is still commonly practiced in many industries that use large amounts of both steam and power, such as pulp and paper, chemicals and refining. The continued use of private electric generators is called microgeneration.\n\nThe first commutator DC electric motor capable of turning machinery was invented by the British scientist William Sturgeon in 1832. The crucial advance that this represented over the motor demonstrated by Michael Faraday was the incorporation of a commutator. This allowed Sturgeon's motor to be the first capable of providing continuous rotary motion.\n\nFrank J. Sprague improved on the DC motor in 1884 by solving the problem of maintaining a constant speed with varying load and reducing sparking from the brushes. Sprague sold his motor through Edison Co. It is easy to vary speed with DC motors, which made them suited for a number of applications such as electric street railways, machine tools and certain other industrial applications where speed control was desirable.\n\nAlthough the first power stations supplied direct current, the distribution of alternating current soon became the most favored option. The main advantages of AC were that it could be transformed to high voltage to reduce transmission losses and that AC motors could easily run at constant speeds.\n\nAlternating current technology was rooted in Michael Faraday 1830–31 discovery that a changing magnetic field can induce an electric current in a circuit.\n\nThe first person to conceive of a rotating magnetic field was Walter Baily who gave a workable demonstration of his battery-operated polyphase motor aided by a commutator on June 28, 1879 to the Physical Society of London. Nearly identical to Baily’s apparatus, French electrical engineer Marcel Deprez in 1880 published a paper that identified the rotating magnetic field principle and that of a two-phase AC system of currents to produce it. In 1886, English engineer Elihu Thomson built an AC motor by expanding upon the induction-repulsion principle and his wattmeter.\n\nIt was in the 1880s that the technology was commercially developed for large scale electricity generation and transmission. In 1882 the British inventor and electrical engineer Sebastian de Ferranti, working for the company Siemens collaborated with the distinguished physicist Lord Kelvin to pioneer AC power technology including an early transformer.\n\nA power transformer developed by Lucien Gaulard and John Dixon Gibbs was demonstrated in London in 1881, and attracted the interest of Westinghouse. They also exhibited the invention in Turin in 1884, where it was adopted for an electric lighting system. Many of their designs were adapted to the particular laws governing electrical distribution in the UK.\n\nSebastian Ziani de Ferranti went into this business in 1882 when he set up a shop in London designing various electrical devices. Ferranti believed in the success of alternating current power distribution early on, and was one of the few experts in this system in the UK. With the help of Lord Kelvin, Ferranti pioneered the first AC power generator and transformer in 1882. John Hopkinson, a British physicist, invented the three-wire (three-phase) system for the distribution of electrical power, for which he was granted a patent in 1882.\n\nThe Italian inventor Galileo Ferraris invented a polyphase AC induction motor in 1885. The idea was that two out-of-phase, but synchronized, currents might be used to produce two magnetic fields that could be combined to produce a rotating field without any need for switching or for moving parts. Other inventors were the American engineers Charles S. Bradley and Nikola Tesla, and the German technician Friedrich August Haselwander. They were able to overcome the problem of starting up the AC motor by using a rotating magnetic field produced by a poly-phase current. Mikhail Dolivo-Dobrovolsky introduced the first three-phase induction motor in 1890, a much more capable design that became the prototype used in Europe and the U.S. By 1895 GE and Westinghouse both had AC motors on the market. With single phase current either a capacitor or coil (creating inductance) can be used on part of the circuit inside the motor to create a rotating magnetic field. Multi-speed AC motors that have separately wired poles have long been available, the most common being two speed. Speed of these motors is changed by switching sets of poles on or off, which was done with a special motor starter for larger motors, or a simple multiple speed switch for fractional horsepower motors.\n\nThe first AC power station in the world was built by the English electrical engineer Sebastian de Ferranti. In 1887 the London Electric Supply Corporation hired Ferranti for the design of their power station at Deptford. He designed the building, the generating plant and the distribution system. It was built at the Stowage, a site to the west of the mouth of Deptford Creek once used by the East India Company. Built on an unprecedented scale and pioneering the use of high voltage (10,000V) AC current, it generated 800 kilowatts and supplied central London. On its completion in 1891 it was the first truly modern power station, supplying high-voltage AC power that was then \"stepped down\" with transformers for consumer use on each street. This basic system remains in use today around the world.\n\nIn America, George Westinghouse who had become interested in the power transformer developed by Gaulard and Gibbs, began to develop his AC lighting system, using a transmission system with a 20:1 step up voltage with step-down. In 1890 Westinghouse and Stanley built a system to transmit power several miles to a mine in Colorado. A decision was taken to use AC for power transmission from the Niagara Power Project to Buffalo, New York. Proposals submitted by vendors in 1890 included DC and compressed air systems. A combination DC and compressed air system remained under consideration until late in the schedule. Despite the protestations of the Niagara commissioner William Thomson (Lord Kelvin) the decision was taken to build an AC system, which had been proposed by both Westinghouse and General Electric. In October 1893 Westinghouse was awarded the contract to provide the first three 5,000 hp, 250 rpm, 25 Hz, two phase generators.\n\nBy the 1890s, single and poly-phase AC was undergoing rapid introduction. In the U.S. by 1902, 61% of generating capacity was AC, increasing to 95% in 1917. Despite the superiority of alternating current for most applications, a few existing DC systems continued to operate for several decades after AC became the standard for new systems.\n\nThe efficiency of steam prime movers in converting the heat energy of fuel into mechanical work was a critical factor in the economic operation of steam central generating stations. Early projects used reciprocating steam engines, operating at relatively low speeds. The introduction of the steam turbine fundamentally changed the economics of central station operations. Steam turbines could be made in larger ratings than reciprocating engines, and generally had higher efficiency. The speed of steam turbines did not fluctuate cyclically during each revolution; making parallel operation of AC generators feasible, and improved the stability of rotary converters for production of direct current for traction and industrial uses. Steam turbines ran at higher speed than reciprocating engines, not being limited by the allowable speed of a piston in a cylinder. This made them more compatible with AC generators with only two or four poles; no gearbox or belted speed increaser was needed between the engine and the generator. It was costly and ultimately impossible to provide a belt-drive between a low-speed engine and a high-speed generator in the very large ratings required for central station service.\n\nThe modern steam turbine was invented in 1884 by the British Sir Charles Parsons, whose first model was connected to a dynamo that generated 7.5 kW (10 hp) of electricity. The invention of Parson's steam turbine made cheap and plentiful electricity possible. Parsons turbines were widely introduced in English central stations by 1894; the first electric supply company in the world to generate electricity using turbo generators was Parsons' own electricity supply company Newcastle and District Electric Lighting Company, set up in 1894. Within Parson's lifetime, the generating capacity of a unit was scaled up by about 10,000 times.\nThe first U.S. turbines were two De Leval units at Edison Co. in New York in 1895. The first U.S. Parsons turbine was at Westinghouse Air Brake Co. near Pittsburgh.\n\nSteam turbines also had capital cost and operating advantages over reciprocating engines. The condensate from steam engines was contaminated with oil and could not be reused, while condensate from a turbine is clean and typically reused. Steam turbines were a fraction of the size and weight of comparably rated reciprocating steam engine. Steam turbines can operate for years with almost no wear. Reciprocating steam engines required high maintenance. Steam turbines can be manufactured with capacities far larger than any steam engines ever made, giving important economies of scale.\n\nSteam turbines could be built to operate on higher pressure and temperature steam. A fundamental principle of thermodynamics is that the higher the temperature of the steam entering an engine, the higher the efficiency. The introduction of steam turbines motivated a series of improvements in temperatures and pressures. The resulting increased conversion efficiency lowered electricity prices.\n\nThe power density of boilers was increased by using forced combustion air and by using compressed air to feed pulverized coal. Also, coal handling was mechanized and automated.\n\nWith the realization of long distance power transmission it was possible to interconnect different central stations to balance loads and improve load factors. Interconnection became increasingly desirable as electrification grew rapidly in the early years of the 20th century.\n\nCharles Merz, of the Merz & McLellan consulting partnership, built the Neptune Bank Power Station near Newcastle upon Tyne in 1901, and by 1912 had developed into the largest integrated power system in Europe. In 1905 he tried to influence Parliament to unify the variety of voltages and frequencies in the country's electricity supply industry, but it was not until World War I that Parliament began to take this idea seriously, appointing him head of a Parliamentary Committee to address the problem. In 1916 Merz pointed out that the UK could use its small size to its advantage, by creating a dense distribution grid to feed its industries efficiently. His findings led to the Williamson Report of 1918, which in turn created the Electricity Supply Bill of 1919. The bill was the first step towards an integrated electricity system in the UK.\n\nThe more significant Electricity (Supply) Act of 1926, lead to the setting up of the National Grid. The Central Electricity Board standardised the nation's electricity supply and established the first synchronised AC grid, running at 132 kilovolts and 50 Hertz. This started operating as a national system, the National Grid, in 1938.\n\nIn the United States it became a national objective after the power crisis during the summer of 1918 in the midst of World War I to consolidate supply. In 1934 the Public Utility Holding Company Act recognized electric utilities as public goods of importance along with gas, water, and telephone companies and thereby were given outlined restrictions and regulatory oversight of their operations.\n\nThe electrification of households in Europe and North America began in the early 20th century in major cities and in areas served by electric railways and increased rapidly until about 1930 when 70% of households were electrified in the U.S.\n\nRural areas were electrified first in Europe, and in the US the Rural Electric Administration, established in 1935 brought electrification to rural areas.\n\nCentral station electric power generating provided power more efficiently and at lower cost than small generators. The capital and operating cost per unit of power were also cheaper with central stations. The cost of electricity fell dramatically in the first decades of the twentieth century due to the introduction of steam turbines and the improved load factor after the introduction of AC motors. As electricity prices fell, usage increased dramatically and central stations were scaled up to enormous sizes, creating significant economies of scale. For the historical cost see Ayres-Warr (2002) Fig. 7.\n\nElectric lighting was highly desirable. The light was much brighter than oil or gas lamps, and there was no soot. Although early electricity was very expensive compared to today, it was far cheaper and more convenient than oil or gas lighting. Electric lighting was so much safer than oil or gas that some companies were able to pay for the electricity with the insurance savings.\n\n\"One of the inventions most important to a class of highly skilled workers (engineers) would be a small motive power - ranging perhaps from the force of from half a man to that of two horses, which might commence as well as cease its action at a moment's notice, require no expense of time for its management and be of modest cost both in original cost and in daily expense.\" Charles Babbage, 1851\n\nTo be efficient steam engines needed to be several hundred horsepower. Steam engines and boilers also required operators and maintenance. For these reasons the smallest commercial steam engines were about 2 horsepower. This was above the need for many small shops. Also, a small steam engine and boiler cost about $7,000 while an old blind horse that could develop 1/2 horsepower cost $20 or less. Machinery to use horses for power cost $300 or less. \n\nMany power requirements were less than that of a horse. Shop machines, such as woodworking lathes, were often powered with a one- or two-man crank. Household sewing machines were powered with a foot treadle; however, factory sewing machines were steam-powered from a line shaft. Dogs were sometimes used on machines such as a treadmill, which could be adapted to churn butter.\n\nIn the late 19th century specially designed \"power buildings\" leased space to small shops. These building supplied power to the tenants from a steam engine through line shafts.\n\nElectric motors were several times more efficient than small steam engines because central station generation was more efficient than small steam engines and because line shafts and belts had high friction losses.\n\nElectric motors were more efficient than human or animal power. The conversion efficiency for animal feed to work is between 4 and 5% compared to over 30% for electricity generated using coal.\n\nElectrification and economic growth are highly correlated. In economics, the efficiency of electrical generation has been shown to correlate with \"technological progress\".\n\nIn the U.S. from 1870-80 each man-hour was provided with .55 hp. In 1950 each man-hour was provided with 5 hp, or a 2.8% annual increase, declining to 1.5% from 1930-50. The period of electrification of factories and households from 1900 to 1940, was one of high productivity and economic growth.\n\nMost studies of electrification and electric grids focused on industrial core countries in Europe and the United States. Elsewhere, wired electricity was often carried on and through the circuits of colonial rule. Some historians and sociologists considered the interplay of colonial politics and the development of electric grids: in India, Rao showed that linguistics-based regional politics — not techno-geographical considerations — led to the creation of two separate grids; in colonial Zimbabwe (Rhodesia), Chikowero showed that electrification was racially based and served the white settler community while excluding Africans; and in Mandate Palestine, Shamir claimed that British electric concessions to a Zionist-owned company deepened the economic disparities between Arabs and Jews.\n\nMost electricity is generated by thermal power stations or steam plants, the majority of which are fossil fuel power stations that burn coal, natural gas, fuel oil or bio-fuels, such as wood waste and black liquor from chemical pulping.\n\nThe most efficient thermal system is combined cycle in which a combustion turbine powers a generator using the high temperature combustion gases and then exhausts the cooler combustion gases to generate low pressure steam for conventional steam cycle generation.\n\nHydroelectricity uses a water turbine to generate power. In 1878 the world's first hydroelectric power scheme was developed at Cragside in Northumberland, England by William George Armstrong. It was used to power a single arc lamp in his art gallery. The old Schoelkopf Power Station No. 1 near Niagara Falls in the U.S. side began to produce electricity in 1881. The first Edison hydroelectric power plant, the Vulcan Street Plant, began operating September 30, 1882, in Appleton, Wisconsin, with an output of about 12.5 kilowatts.\n\nThe first electricity-generating wind turbine was a battery charging machine installed in July 1887 by Scottish academic James Blyth to light his holiday home in Marykirk, Scotland. Some months later American inventor Charles F Brush built the first automatically operated wind turbine for electricity production in Cleveland, Ohio. \nAdvances in recent decades greatly lowered the cost of wind power making it one of the most competitive alternate energies and competitive with higher priced natural gas (before shale gas). Wind energy's main problem is that it is intermittent and therefore needs grid extensions and energy storage to be a reliable main energy source.\n\nPrince Piero Ginori Conti tested the first geothermal power generator on 4 July 1904 in Larderello, Italy. It successfully lit four light bulbs. Later, in 1911, the world's first commercial geothermal power plant was built there. Italy was the world's only industrial producer of geothermal electricity until 1958.\nGeothermal requires very hot underground temperatures near the surface to generate steam which is used in a low temperature steam plant. Geothermal power is only used in a few areas. Italy supplies all of the electrified rail network with geothermal power.\n\nElectricity production from solar energy either directly through photovoltaic cells or indirectly such as by producing steam to drive a steam turbine generator.\n\nWhile electrification of cities and homes has existed since the late 19th century even today about 1.3 billion people lack electricity, mostly in Africa and the Indian subcontinent. One estimate (2010) suggests that as many as half of India's households lack electricity.\n\nMost recent progress in electrification took place between the 1950s and 1980s. Vast gains were seen in the 1970s and 1980s - from 49 percent of the world's population in 1970 to 76 percent in 1990. Recent gains have been more modest - by the early 2010s 81 to 83 percent of the world's population had access to electricity.\n\nElectricity is a \"sticky\" form of energy, in that it tends to stay in the continent or island where it is produced. It is also multi-sourced; if one source suffers a shortage, electricity can be produced from other sources, including renewable sources. As a result, in the long term it is a relatively resilient means of energy transmission. In the short term, because electricity must be supplied at the same moment it is consumed, it is somewhat unstable, compared to fuels that can be delivered and stored on-site. However, that can be mitigated by grid energy storage and distributed generation.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23574769", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23574769", "title": "Electro-kinetic road ramp", "text": "Electro-kinetic road ramp\n\nThe electro-kinetic road ramp is a method of generating electricity by harnessing the kinetic energy of automobles that drive over the ramp. In June 2009, one of the devices was installed in the car park at a Sainsbury's supermarket in Gloucester, United Kingdom, where it provides enough electricity to run all of the store's cash registers. The ramp was invented by Peter Hughes, an electrical and mechanical engineer who is employed by Highway Energy Systems Ltd. The company says that under normal traffic conditions, the apparatus will produce 30 kW of electricity. Other proposed applications for the road ramps include powering street and traffic lights, heating roads in the winter to prevent ice from forming, and ventilating tunnels to reduce pollution.\n\nThe idea was dismissed as \"Talk of 'kinetic energy plates' is a total waste of energy\" in the Guardian by David MacKay, the professor of natural philosophy in the department of Physics at the University of Cambridge. MacKay wrote, \"The savings from parking at the green car park thus amount to one four-thousandth of the energy used by the trip to the supermarket.\"\n"}
{"id": "46488727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46488727", "title": "Energoland", "text": "Energoland\n\nEnergoland is an information centre for energy and electricity generation which was opened by Slovenské elektrárne on 14 October 2014 at Mochovce, Slovakia, at the site of the nuclear power plant. It is situated between Levice and Nitra. The centre mainly serves the schools and public. The entry is free of charge. The exposition was awarded as an excellent communication project at the PIME conference and evaluated as a five-star training centre by Laura Elizabeth Kennedy, governor of the United States of America in the Board of Governors of the International Atomic Energy Agency in Vienna and chargé d'affaires of permanent representation of the USA in international organisation in Vienna.\n\nIn Energoland, there are more than thirty objects, applications, and interactive expositions. Edutainment (blending education and entertainment) at Mochovce offers information on energy, electricity generation, global warming, and carbon burden. In addition, visitors learn about the energy mix, electricity grid dispatching, or about the radiation around us. The exposition also focuses on power industry, not only with respect to safety and radioactive waste but also dealing with the fuel cycle, nanowolrd of atoms, and Cherenkov radiation. Some of the specialities include the 3D cinema with its own movie Energy Odyssey, a model of emission-free motorcycle, interactive LED floor or thermal mirror, and mobile application using augmented reality, \"Energoland\", downloadable from Google Play or AppStore. Through the Energy Map, various facts and statistics can be searched which are directly shown in the map of the world with the highlighted countries.\nEnergoland also wants its visitors to make their own opinion of the electricity generation and its sources. Therefore, it does not provide information only about nuclear energy but it also brings knowledge about other sources: water, sun, wind, geothermal energy, or fossil fuels.\n\nThe design of the building is the work of Ing. arch. Viktor Šabík (BARAK Architekti) who, together with the QEX Company and Italian agency Piter Design, designed the interior of Energoland, as well.[2] The total area of the building, including the training rooms and offices is 2,000 square metres; the info centre itself takes up the area of 600 m2.\n\nEnergoland is not only a visitor and information centre; it also serves as a training centre for the employees of Slovenské elektrárne and provides office areas. There are many events for the employees of Slovenské elektrárne or public taking place here, such as the 90 reactor-years anniversary, programme within the national round of Olympics in Physics, Science Talks during the Science and Technology Week, Sustainable Development Conference in May 2015, etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "38328166", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38328166", "title": "Energy broker", "text": "Energy broker\n\nEnergy brokers assist clients in procuring electric or natural gas from energy wholesalers/suppliers. Since electricity and natural gas are commodities, prices change daily with the market. It is challenging for most businesses without energy managers to obtain price comparisons from a variety of suppliers since prices must be compared on exactly the same day. In addition, the terms of the particular contract offered by the supplier influences the price that is quoted. An energy broker can provide a valuable service if they work with a large number of suppliers and can actually compile the sundry prices from suppliers. An important aspect of this consulting role is to assure that the client understands the differences between the contract offers. Under some State Laws they use the term \"Suppliers\" to refer to energy suppliers, brokers, and aggregators, however there are very important differences between them all.\n\nEnergy brokers do not own or distribute energy, nor are allowed to sell energy directly to you. They simply present the rates of a wholesaler, or supplier.\n\nEnergy consultants offer a lot more than procuring energy contracts from a supplier. In the UK and Europe where there is a lot of legislation and increasing pressure for businesses and countries to do more to reduce their energy consumption a lot of services from brokers now help ensure businesses meet a lot of compliance and accreditation requirements such as the ESOS (energy saving opportunity scheme), ISO 50001, ISO 14001, Energy Performance Certificates and Display Energy Certificates.\nOther services include helping companies reduce energy consumption with the aim of meeting national and international carbon emission standards. Services include, energy health checks, energy audits, carbon zero, carbon offsetting and energy saving consulting.\n\nAdditional services such as arranging a power purchase agreement, energy export contracts can be procured as well as energy monitoring and reporting technology and solutions are also offered by energy consultants.\n\nIn the USA, energy brokers can serve residential, commercial and government entities that reside in energy deregulated states. In the UK, and some countries in Europe, the entire market is deregulated.\n\nEnergy brokers typically do not charge up front fees to provide rates. If an entity purchases energy through a broker, the broker's fee is usually included in the rate the customer pays. Some brokers will charge a fixed fee for their consulting services.\n\nNot all energy brokers are consultants; However, the energy brokers who are also consultants will perform a more detailed analysis of a consumers' usage pattern in order to provide a custom rate, which typically results in more cost savings for the consumer. Typically, they do not need any more information than that of an energy broker, because they can pull usage information from the local utility company. There are some national energy brokers that use auditing teams to verify their client's invoices.\n"}
{"id": "32020974", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32020974", "title": "Energy in the United Arab Emirates", "text": "Energy in the United Arab Emirates\n\nEnergy in the United Arab Emirates describes energy and electricity production, consumption and import in the United Arab Emirates (UAE). UAE has 7% of global proved oil reserves, about 100 billion barrels. Primary energy use in 2009 in UAE was 693 TWh and 151 TWh per million persons.\n\nThe UAE is currently transitioning from an electricity generation system nearly 100% powered by gas power plants (2010) to 100% powered by nuclear, solar and other renewables in order to substantially reduce its carbon emissions. It is also rolling out electric vehicle charging infrastructure.\n\nIn June 2010 UAE had 6th top global proved oil reserves about 100 billion barrels, behind Saudi Arabia, Venezuela, Iran, Iraq and Kuwait. The crude oil production of UAE was more than 4 and less than 5 million barrels daily.\n\nUAE was 4th top crude oil net exporter (108 Mt in 2008) and 10th top crude oil producers (120 Mt in 2009).\n\nUAE has 7th top global proved natural gas reserves, above 6 trillion cubic metres. The global gas production in 2009 was 3 trillion cubic meters.\n\nThe UAE has massive solar generation potential, and its energy policy has shifted substantially due to the declining price of solar. The Dubai Clean Energy Strategy aims to provide 7 per cent of Dubai’s energy from clean energy sources by 2020. It will increase this target to 25 per cent by 2030 and 75 per cent by 2050.\n\nDespite being a large oil exporter, the UAE is installing nuclear power plants to meet its energy needs. It has signed an agreement with the U.S. on nuclear cooperation, and is also a signatory to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty.\n\nUnited Arab Emirates was 6th top carbon dioxide emitter per capita in the world in 2009: 40.31 tonnes per capita. Top countries were (tonnes/capita): Gibraltar 152, U.S. Virgin Islands 114, Qatar 80, Netherlands Antilles 51 and Bahrain 43. All emissions from building and cement production are local but some people may argue that some United Arab Emirates produced fuels and/or goods are consumed abroad. The UAE has begun acting aggressively to reduce its carbon emissions. Dubai Electricity and Water Authority (DEWA) plans a 250 MW pumped-storage hydroelectricity at Hatta using 880 million gallons of water 300 meter above a lower dam.\n"}
{"id": "55148523", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55148523", "title": "Environmental impact of silver nanoparticles", "text": "Environmental impact of silver nanoparticles\n\nIn 2015, 251 million tubes of toothpaste were sold in the United States. A single tube holds roughly 170 grams of toothpaste, so approximately 43 kilotonnes of toothpaste get washed into the water systems annually. Toothpaste contains silver nanoparticles, also known as nanosilver or AgNPs, among other compounds. \n\nEach tube of toothpaste contains approximately 91 mg of silver nanoparticles, with approximately 3.9 tonnes of silver nanoparticles entering the environment annually. Silver nanoparticles are not entirely cleared from the water during the wastewater treatment process, possibly leading to detrimental environmental effects.\n\nSilver nanoparticles are used for catalyzing chemical reactions, Raman imaging, and antimicrobial sterilization. Along with its antimicrobial properties, its low mammalian cell toxicity makes these particles a common addition to consumer products. Washing textiles embedded with silver nanoparticles results in the oxidation and transformation of metallic Ag into AgCl.\n\nSilver nanoparticles have different physicochemical characteristics from the free silver ion, Ag and possess increased optical, electromagnetic, and catalytic properties. Particles with one dimension of 100 nm or less can generate reactive oxygen species. Smaller particles less than 10 nm may pass through cellular membranes and accumulate within the cell. Silver nanoparticles were also found to attach to cellular membranes, eventually dissipating the proton motive force, leading to cell death. \n\nSilver nanoparticles that are larger than the openings of membrane channel proteins can easily clog channels, leading to the disruption of membrane permeability and transport. However, the antimicrobial effectiveness of silver nanoparticles has been shown to decrease when dissolved in liquid media.\n\nThe free silver ion are potentially toxic to bacteria and planktonic species in the water. The positively charged silver ion can also attach to the negatively charged cell walls of bacteria, leading to deactivation of cellular enzymes, disruption of membrane permeability, and eventually, cell lysis and death. However, its toxicity to microorganisms is not overtly observed since the free silver ion is found in low concentrations in wastewater treatment systems and the natural environment due to its complexation with ligands such as chloride, sulfide, and thiosulfate.\nA majority of silver nanoparticles in consumer products go down the drain and are eventually released into sewer systems and reach wastewater treatment plants. Primary screening and grit removal in wastewater treatment does not completely filter out silver nanoparticles, and coagulation treatment may lead to further condensation into wastewater sludge. The secondary wastewater treatment process involves suspended growth systems which allow bacteria to decompose organic matter within the water. Any silver nanoparticles still suspended in the water may collect on these microbes, potentially killing them due to their antimicrobial effects. After passing through both treatment processes, the silver nanoparticles are eventually deposited into the environment.\n\nA majority of the submerged portions of wastewater treatment plants are anoxic and rich in sulfur. During the wastewater treatment process, silver nanoparticles either remain the same, are converted into free silver ions, complex with ligands, or agglomerate. Silver nanoparticles can also attach to wastewater biosolids found in both the sludge and the effluent. Silver ions in wastewater are removed efficiently because of their strong complexation with chloride or sulfide. \n\nA majority of the silver found in wastewater treatment plant effluent is associated with reduced sulfur as organic thiol groups and inorganic sulfides. Silver nanoparticles also tend to accumulate in activated sludge, and the dominant form of the silver found in sewage sludge is AgS. Therefore, most of the silver found in wastewater treatment plants is in the form of silver nanoparticles or silver precipitates such as AgS and AgCl.\n\nThe amount of silver precipitate formed depends on silver ion release, which increases with increasing dissolved oxygen concentration and decreasing pH. Silver ions account for approximately 1% of total silver after silver nanoparticles are suspended in aerated water. In anoxic wastewater treatment environments, silver ion release is therefore often negligible, and most of the silver nanoparticles in wastewater remain in the original silver nanoparticle form. The presence of natural organic matter can also decrease oxidative dissolution rates and therefore the release rate of free silver ions. The slow oxidation of silver nanoparticles may enable new pathways for its transfer into the environment.\n\nThe silver nanoparticles that pass through wastewater treatment plants undergo transformations in the environment through changes in aggregation state, oxidation state, precipitation of secondary phases, or sorption of organic species. These transformations can result in the formation of colloidal solutions. Each of these new species potentially have toxic effects which have yet to be fully examined.\n\nMost silver nanoparticles in products have an organic shell structure around a core of Ag. This shell is often created with carboxylic acids functional groups, usually using citrate, leading to stabilization through adsorption or covalent attachment of organic compounds. In seawater, glutathione reacts with citrate to form a thioester via esterification. \nThioesters exhibit electrosteric repulsive forces due to amine functional groups and their size, which prevents aggregation. These electrostatic repulsive forces are weakened by counterions in solution, such as Ca found in seawater. Ca ions are naturally found in seawater due to the weathering of calcareous rocks, and allow for dissolution of the oxide-coated particle at low electrolyte concentrations. \n\nThis leads to the aggregation of silver nanoparticles onto thioesters in seawater. When aggregation occurs, the silver nanoparticles lose microbial toxicity, but have greater exposure in the environment for larger organisms. These effects have not been completely identified, but may be hazardous to an organism’s health via biological magnification.\n\nSilver nanoparticles are thermodynamically unstable in oxic environments. In seawater, silver oxide is not thermodynamically favored when chloride and sulfur are present. On the surface where O is present in much greater quantities than chloride or sulfur, silver reacts to form a silver oxide surface layer. This oxidation has been shown to occur in nanoparticles as well, despite their shell.Dissolution of AgO in Water:AgO + HO → 2Ag + 2OH The nano-size of the particles aids in oxidation since their smaller surface area increases their redox potential. The silver oxide layer easily dissolves in water because of its low K value of 4×10. Possible Oxidation Reactions of Silver:Ag + O → Ag+ + O4Ag + O → 4Ag + 2OIn aerobic, acidic seawater, oxidation of Ag can occur through the following reaction:Oxidation of Silver in Seawater:2Ag + ½ O + 2H ⇌ 2Ag + H2O The formation of these Ag ions are a concern for environmental health, as these ions freely interact with other organic compounds, such as humic acids, and disrupt the normal balance of an ecosystem. These Ag ions will also react with Cl to form complexes such as AgCl, AgCl, and AgCl, which are bioavailable forms of silver that are potentially more toxic to bacteria and fish than silver nanoparticles. The etched structure of silver nanoparticles provides the chloride with the preferred atomic steps for nucleation to occur.Reaction of Silver with Chloride:Ag + Cl → AgClAgCl + Cl → AgCl Ag has also been shown to readily react with sulfur in water. Free Ag ions will react with HS in the water to form the precipitate AgS. Silver and Sulfur Reaction in Seawater:2Ag + HS → AgS + H HS is not the only source of sulfur that Ag will readily bind to. Organosulfur compounds, which are produced by aquatic organisms, form extremely stable sulfide complexes with silver. Silver outcompetes other metals for the available sulfide, leading to an overall decrease in bioavailable sulfur in the community. Thus, the formation of AgS limits the amount of bioavailable sulfur and contributes to a reduction in toxicity of silver nanoparticles to nitrifying bacteria.\n\nSilver nanoparticles are experimentally shown to inhibit autotrophic nitrifying bacterial growth (86±3%) more than Ag ions (42±7%) or AgCl colloids (46±4%). Silver nanoparticle-inhibited heterotrophic growth (55±8%) in \"Escherichia coli\" is best observed at lower concentrations, between 1.0 uM and 4.2 uM. This is less than Ag ions (~100%), but greater than AgCl colloids (66±6%). The actual cause of these results is undetermined as growth conditions and cell properties differ between nitrifying bacteria and heterotrophic \"E. coli\".\n\nWithin toothpaste, Ag ions have been shown to have a stronger effect on gram-negative bacteria than on gram-positive bacteria. In comparison to other nanoparticles, such as gold, silver tends to have a broader antimicrobial effect, which is another reason why it is incorporated into so many products. Ag is less effective on gram-positive bacteria due to the thick layer of peptidoglycan around them that gram-negative species lack. Approximately half of the peptidoglycan wall is composed of teichoic acids linked by phosphodiester bonds, which results in an overall negative charge in the peptidoglycan layer. This negative charge may trap the positive Ag and prevent them from entering the cell and disrupting the flow of electrons.\n\nThe most environmentally relevant species of these nanoparticles are silver chloride within marine ecosystems and organic thiols within terrestrial ecosystems. Once Ag enters the environment, it is oxidized to Ag. Of the potential species formed in seawater, such as AgS and AgCO, AgCl is the most thermodynamically favored due to its stability, solubility, and the abundance of Cl in seawater. Research has shown that partially oxidized nanoparticles may be more toxic than those that are freshly prepared. \n\nIt was also found that Ag dissolutes more in solution when the pH is low and bleaching has occurred. This effect, coupled with ocean acidification and increasing coral reef bleaching events, leads to a compounding effect of Ag accumulation in the global marine ecosystem. These free formed Ag ions can accumulate and block the regulation of Na and Cl ion exchange within the gills of fish, leading to blood acidosis which is fatal if left unchecked. Additionally, fish can accumulate Ag through their diet. Phytoplankton, which form the base level of aquatic food chains, can absorb and collect silver from their surroundings. \n\nAs fish eat phytoplankton, the silver accumulates within their circulatory system, which has been shown to negatively impact embryonic fish, causing spinal cord deformities and cardiac arrhythmia. The other class of organisms heavily affected by silver nanoparticles is bivalves. Filter feeding bivalves accumulate nanoparticles to concentrations 10,000 times greater than was added to seawater, and Ag ions are proven to be extremely toxic to them. \n\nThe base of complex food webs consists of microbes, and these organisms are most heavily impacted by nanoparticles. These effects cascade into the problems that have now reached an observable scale. As global temperatures rise and oceanic pH drops, some species, such as oysters, will be even more susceptible to the negative impacts of nanoparticles as they are stressed.\n\n"}
{"id": "35350800", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35350800", "title": "Evolutionary anachronism", "text": "Evolutionary anachronism\n\nEvolutionary anachronism is a concept in evolutionary biology, named by Connie C. Barlow in her book \"The Ghosts of Evolution\" (2000), to refer to attributes of living species that are best explained as a result of having been favorably selected in the past due to coevolution with other biological species that have since become extinct. When this context is removed, said attributes appear as unexplained amounts of energy investments on the part of the living organism, with no apparent benefit extracted from them, and can even be prejudicial to the continued reproduction of the surviving species. The general theory was formulated by Costa Rican-based American botanist Daniel Janzen and University of Arizona-based geologist Paul S. Martin (a prominent defender of the overkill hypothesis to explain the Quaternary extinction event) in a \"Science\" article published in 1982, titled \"Neotropical Anachronisms: The fruit the gomphotheres ate.\" Previously in 1977, Stanley Temple had proposed a similar idea to explain the decline of the Mauritius endemic tree tambalacoque following the extinction of the iconic dodo.\n\nJanzen, Martin and Barlow mainly discussed evolutionary anachronisms in the context of seed dispersal and passive defense strategies exhibited by plants that had evolved alongside disappeared megaherbivores. However, some examples have also been described in animal species. John Byers used the name relict behavior for animal behavior examples. Evolutionary anachronisms, as properly understood, should not be confused with examples of vestigiality. Though both concepts refer ultimately to organs that evolved to deal with pressures that are no longer present today, in the anachronisms case, the original function of the organ and the capacity of the organism to use it are still retained intact (e.g. the absence of gomphotheres to eat avocados doesn't make the avocado's pulp in any way vestigial, rudimentary or intrinsically incapable of playing its original function of helping disperse the avocado's seeds through zoochory, were a new suitable ecological partner to appear; while a true vestigial organ like the python's pelvic spurs cannot in any way be used to walk again).\n\nDispersal syndromes are complexes of fruit traits that enable plants to disperse seeds. The kind of fruits that birds are attracted to are usually small, with only a thin protective skin, and the colors are red or dark shades of blue or purple. Fruits categorized as mammal syndrome are bigger than bird fruits. They possess a tough rind or husk, emit a strong odor when ripe but retain a dull coloration of brown, burnished yellow, orange or remain green, because most mammals have a powerful sense of smell but poor color vision in general, primates being the most notable exception. The megafauna dispersal syndrome refers to those attributes of fruits that evolved in order to attract megafauna (animals that weigh or weighed more than 44 kilograms) as primary dispersal agents. Since the Holocene extinction, large herbivores have become extinct outside Africa and to a lesser extent Asia, leaving these fruits without a suitable dispersal mechanism in the absence of agriculture.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9813", "title": "Extinction event", "text": "Extinction event\n\nAn extinction event (also known as a mass extinction or biotic crisis) is a widespread and rapid decrease in the biodiversity on Earth. Such an event is identified by a sharp change in the diversity and abundance of multicellular organisms. It occurs when the rate of extinction increases with respect to the rate of speciation. Because most diversity and biomass on Earth is microbial, and thus difficult to measure, recorded extinction events affect the easily observed, biologically complex component of the biosphere rather than the total diversity and abundance of life.\n\nExtinction occurs at an uneven rate. Based on the fossil record, the background rate of extinctions on Earth is about two to five taxonomic families of marine animals every million years. Marine fossils are mostly used to measure extinction rates because of their superior fossil record and stratigraphic range compared to land animals.\n\nThe Great Oxygenation Event was probably the first major extinction event. Since the Cambrian explosion five further major mass extinctions have significantly exceeded the background extinction rate. The most recent and arguably best-known, the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event, which occurred approximately million years ago (Ma), was a large-scale mass extinction of animal and plant species in a geologically short period of time. In addition to the five major mass extinctions, there are numerous minor ones as well, and the ongoing mass extinction caused by human activity is sometimes called the sixth extinction. Mass extinctions seem to be a mainly Phanerozoic phenomenon, with extinction rates low before large complex organisms arose.\n\nEstimates of the number of major mass extinctions in the last 540 million years range from as few as five to more than twenty. These differences stem from the threshold chosen for describing an extinction event as \"major\", and the data chosen to measure past diversity.\n\nIn a landmark paper published in 1982, Jack Sepkoski and David M. Raup identified five mass extinctions. They were originally identified as outliers to a general trend of decreasing extinction rates during the Phanerozoic, but as more stringent statistical tests have been applied to the accumulating data, it has been established that multicellular animal life has experienced five major and many minor mass extinctions. The \"Big Five\" cannot be so clearly defined, but rather appear to represent the largest (or some of the largest) of a relatively smooth continuum of extinction events.\n\n\nDespite the popularization of these five events, there is no definite line separating them from other extinction events; using different methods of calculating an extinction's impact can lead to other events featuring in the top five.\n\nOlder fossil records are more difficult to interpret. This is because:\n\nIt has been suggested that the apparent variations in marine biodiversity may actually be an artifact, with abundance estimates directly related to quantity of rock available for sampling from different time periods. However, statistical analysis shows that this can only account for 50% of the observed pattern, and other evidence (such as fungal spikes) provides reassurance that most widely accepted extinction events are real. A quantification of the rock exposure of Western Europe indicates that many of the minor events for which a biological explanation has been sought are most readily explained by sampling bias.\n\nResearch completed after the seminal 1982 paper has concluded that a sixth mass extinction event is ongoing:\n\nMore recent research has indicated that the End-Capitanian extinction event likely constitutes a separate extinction event from the Permian–Triassic extinction event; if so, it would be larger than many of the \"Big Five\" extinction events.\n\nThis is a list of extinction events:\n\nMass extinctions have sometimes accelerated the evolution of life on Earth. When dominance of particular ecological niches passes from one group of organisms to another, it is rarely because the new dominant group is \"superior\" to the old and usually because an extinction event eliminates the old dominant group and makes way for the new one.\n\nFor example, mammaliformes (\"almost mammals\") and then mammals existed throughout the reign of the dinosaurs, but could not compete for the large terrestrial vertebrate niches which dinosaurs monopolized. The end-Cretaceous mass extinction removed the non-avian dinosaurs and made it possible for mammals to expand into the large terrestrial vertebrate niches. Ironically, the dinosaurs themselves had been beneficiaries of a previous mass extinction, the end-Triassic, which eliminated most of their chief rivals, the crurotarsans.\n\nAnother point of view put forward in the Escalation hypothesis predicts that species in ecological niches with more organism-to-organism conflict will be less likely to survive extinctions. This is because the very traits that keep a species numerous and viable under fairly static conditions become a burden once population levels fall among competing organisms during the dynamics of an extinction event.\n\nFurthermore, many groups which survive mass extinctions do not recover in numbers or diversity, and many of these go into long-term decline, and these are often referred to as \"Dead Clades Walking\". However, clades that survive for a considerable period of time after a mass extinction, and which were reduced to only a few species, are likely to have experienced a rebound effect called the \"push of the past\"\n\nDarwin was firmly of the opinion that biotic interactions, such as competition for food and space—the ‘struggle for existence’—were of considerably greater importance in promoting evolution and extinction than changes in the physical environment. He expressed this in \"The Origin of Species\": \"Species are produced and exterminated by slowly acting causes…and the most import of all causes of organic change is one which is almost independent of altered…physical conditions, namely the mutual relation of organism to organism-the improvement of one organism entailing the improvement or extermination of others\".\n\nIt has been suggested variously that extinction events occurred periodically, every 26 to 30 million years, or that diversity fluctuates episodically every ~62 million years.\nVarious ideas attempt to explain the supposed pattern, including the presence of a hypothetical companion star to the sun,\noscillations in the galactic plane, or passage through the Milky Way's spiral arms. However, other authors have concluded the data on marine mass extinctions do not fit with the idea that mass extinctions are periodic, or that ecosystems gradually build up to a point at which a mass extinction is inevitable. Many of the proposed correlations have been argued to be spurious.\nOthers have argued that there is strong evidence supporting periodicity in a variety of records,\nand additional evidence in the form of coincident periodic variation in nonbiological geochemical variables.\n\nMass extinctions are thought to result when a long-term stress is compounded by a short term shock. Over the course of the Phanerozoic, individual taxa appear to be less likely to become extinct at any time, which may reflect more robust food webs as well as less extinction-prone species and other factors such as continental distribution.\nHowever, even after accounting for sampling bias, there does appear to be a gradual decrease in extinction and origination rates during the Phanerozoic. This may represent the fact that groups with higher turnover rates are more likely to become extinct by chance; or it may be an artefact of taxonomy: families tend to become more speciose, therefore less prone to extinction, over time; and larger taxonomic groups (by definition) appear earlier in geological time.\n\nIt has also been suggested that the oceans have gradually become more hospitable to life over the last 500 million years, and thus less vulnerable to mass extinctions, but susceptibility to extinction at a taxonomic level does not appear to make mass extinctions more or less probable.\n\nThere is still debate about the causes of all mass extinctions. In general, large extinctions may result when a biosphere under long-term stress undergoes a short-term shock. An underlying mechanism appears to be present in the correlation of extinction and origination rates to diversity. High diversity leads to a persistent increase in extinction rate; low diversity to a persistent increase in origination rate. These presumably ecologically controlled relationships likely amplify smaller perturbations (asteroid impacts, etc.) to produce the global effects observed.\n\nA good theory for a particular mass extinction should: (i) explain all of the losses, not just focus on a few groups (such as dinosaurs); (ii) explain why particular groups of organisms died out and why others survived; (iii) provide mechanisms which are strong enough to cause a mass extinction but not a total extinction; (iv) be based on events or processes that can be shown to have happened, not just inferred from the extinction.\n\nIt may be necessary to consider combinations of causes. For example, the marine aspect of the end-Cretaceous extinction appears to have been caused by several processes which partially overlapped in time and may have had different levels of significance in different parts of the world.\n\nArens and West (2006) proposed a \"press / pulse\" model in which mass extinctions generally require two types of cause: long-term pressure on the eco-system (\"press\") and a sudden catastrophe (\"pulse\") towards the end of the period of pressure.\nTheir statistical analysis of marine extinction rates throughout the Phanerozoic suggested that neither long-term pressure alone nor a catastrophe alone was sufficient to cause a significant increase in the extinction rate.\n\nMacleod (2001) summarized the relationship between mass extinctions and events which are most often cited as causes of mass extinctions, using data from Courtillot \"et al.\" (1996), Hallam (1992) and Grieve \"et al.\" (1996):\n\nThe most commonly suggested causes of mass extinctions are listed below.\n\nThe formation of large igneous provinces by flood basalt events could have:\nFlood basalt events occur as pulses of activity punctuated by dormant periods. As a result, they are likely to cause the climate to oscillate between cooling and warming, but with an overall trend towards warming as the carbon dioxide they emit can stay in the atmosphere for hundreds of years.\n\nIt is speculated that massive volcanism caused or contributed to the End-Permian, End-Triassic and End-Cretaceous extinctions. The correlation between gigantic volcanic events expressed in the large igneous provinces and mass extinctions was shown for the last 260 Myr. Recently such possible correlation was extended for the whole Phanerozoic Eon.\n\nThese are often clearly marked by worldwide sequences of contemporaneous sediments which show all or part of a transition from sea-bed to tidal zone to beach to dry land – and where there is no evidence that the rocks in the relevant areas were raised by geological processes such as orogeny. Sea-level falls could reduce the continental shelf area (the most productive part of the oceans) sufficiently to cause a marine mass extinction, and could disrupt weather patterns enough to cause extinctions on land. But sea-level falls are very probably the result of other events, such as sustained global cooling or the sinking of the mid-ocean ridges.\n\nSea-level falls are associated with most of the mass extinctions, including all of the \"Big Five\"—End-Ordovician, Late Devonian, End-Permian, End-Triassic, and End-Cretaceous.\n\nA study, published in the journal Nature (online June 15, 2008) established a relationship between the speed of mass extinction events and changes in sea level and sediment. The study suggests changes in ocean environments related to sea level exert a driving influence on rates of extinction, and generally determine the composition of life in the oceans.\n\nThe impact of a sufficiently large asteroid or comet could have caused food chains to collapse both on land and at sea by producing dust and particulate aerosols and thus inhibiting photosynthesis. Impacts on sulfur-rich rocks could have emitted sulfur oxides precipitating as poisonous acid rain, contributing further to the collapse of food chains. Such impacts could also have caused megatsunamis and/or global forest fires.\n\nMost paleontologists now agree that an asteroid did hit the Earth about 66 Ma ago, but there is an ongoing dispute whether the impact was the sole cause of the Cretaceous–Paleogene extinction event.\n\nSustained and significant global cooling could kill many polar and temperate species and force others to migrate towards the equator; reduce the area available for tropical species; often make the Earth's climate more arid on average, mainly by locking up more of the planet's water in ice and snow. The glaciation cycles of the current ice age are believed to have had only a very mild impact on biodiversity, so the mere existence of a significant cooling is not sufficient on its own to explain a mass extinction.\n\nIt has been suggested that global cooling caused or contributed to the End-Ordovician, Permian–Triassic, Late Devonian extinctions, and possibly others. Sustained global cooling is distinguished from the temporary climatic effects of flood basalt events or impacts.\n\nThis would have the opposite effects: expand the area available for tropical species; kill temperate species or force them to migrate towards the poles; possibly cause severe extinctions of polar species; often make the Earth's climate wetter on average, mainly by melting ice and snow and thus increasing the volume of the water cycle. It might also cause anoxic events in the oceans (see below).\n\nGlobal warming as a cause of mass extinction is supported by several recent studies.\n\nThe most dramatic example of sustained warming is the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, which was associated with one of the smaller mass extinctions. It has also been suggested to have caused the Triassic–Jurassic extinction event, during which 20% of all marine families became extinct. Furthermore, the Permian–Triassic extinction event has been suggested to have been caused by warming.\n\nClathrates are composites in which a lattice of one substance forms a cage around another. Methane clathrates (in which water molecules are the cage) form on continental shelves. These clathrates are likely to break up rapidly and release the methane if the temperature rises quickly or the pressure on them drops quickly—for example in response to sudden global warming or a sudden drop in sea level or even earthquakes. Methane is a much more powerful greenhouse gas than carbon dioxide, so a methane eruption (\"clathrate gun\") could cause rapid global warming or make it much more severe if the eruption was itself caused by global warming.\n\nThe most likely signature of such a methane eruption would be a sudden decrease in the ratio of carbon-13 to carbon-12 in sediments, since methane clathrates are low in carbon-13; but the change would have to be very large, as other events can also reduce the percentage of carbon-13.\n\nIt has been suggested that \"clathrate gun\" methane eruptions were involved in the end-Permian extinction (\"the Great Dying\") and in the Paleocene–Eocene Thermal Maximum, which was associated with one of the smaller mass extinctions.\n\nAnoxic events are situations in which the middle and even the upper layers of the ocean become deficient or totally lacking in oxygen. Their causes are complex and controversial, but all known instances are associated with severe and sustained global warming, mostly caused by sustained massive volcanism.\n\nIt has been suggested that anoxic events caused or contributed to the Ordovician–Silurian, late Devonian, Permian–Triassic and Triassic–Jurassic extinctions, as well as a number of lesser extinctions (such as the Ireviken, Mulde, Lau, Toarcian and Cenomanian–Turonian events). On the other hand, there are widespread black shale beds from the mid-Cretaceous which indicate anoxic events but are not associated with mass extinctions.\n\nThe bio-availability of essential trace elements (in particular selenium) to potentially lethal lows has been shown to coincide with, and likely have contributed to, at least three mass extinction events in the oceans, i.e. at the end of the Ordovician, during the Middle and Late Devonian, and at the end of the Triassic. During periods of low oxygen concentrations very soluble selenate (Se) is converted into much less soluble selenide (Se), elemental Se and organo-selenium complexes. Bio-availability of selenium during these extinction events dropped to about 1% of the current oceanic concentration, a level that has been proven lethal to many extant organisms.\n\nKump, Pavlov and Arthur (2005) have proposed that during the Permian–Triassic extinction event the warming also upset the oceanic balance between photosynthesising plankton and deep-water sulfate-reducing bacteria, causing massive emissions of hydrogen sulfide which poisoned life on both land and sea and severely weakened the ozone layer, exposing much of the life that still remained to fatal levels of UV radiation.\n\nOceanic overturn is a disruption of thermo-haline circulation which lets surface water (which is more saline than deep water because of evaporation) sink straight down, bringing anoxic deep water to the surface and therefore killing most of the oxygen-breathing organisms which inhabit the surface and middle depths. It may occur either at the beginning or the end of a glaciation, although an overturn at the start of a glaciation is more dangerous because the preceding warm period will have created a larger volume of anoxic water.\n\nUnlike other oceanic catastrophes such as regressions (sea-level falls) and anoxic events, overturns do not leave easily identified \"signatures\" in rocks and are theoretical consequences of researchers' conclusions about other climatic and marine events.\n\nIt has been suggested that oceanic overturn caused or contributed to the late Devonian and Permian–Triassic extinctions.\n\nA nearby gamma-ray burst (less than 6000 light-years away) would be powerful enough to destroy the Earth's ozone layer, leaving organisms vulnerable to ultraviolet radiation from the Sun. Gamma ray bursts are fairly rare, occurring only a few times in a given galaxy per million years.\nIt has been suggested that a supernova or gamma ray burst caused the End-Ordovician extinction.\n\nOne theory is that periods of increased geomagnetic reversals will weaken Earth's magnetic field long enough to expose the atmosphere to the solar winds, causing oxygen ions to escape the atmosphere in a rate increased by 3–4 orders, resulting in a disastrous decrease in oxygen.\n\nMovement of the continents into some configurations can cause or contribute to extinctions in several ways: by initiating or ending ice ages; by changing ocean and wind currents and thus altering climate; by opening seaways or land bridges which expose previously isolated species to competition for which they are poorly adapted (for example, the extinction of most of South America's native ungulates and all of its large metatherians after the creation of a land bridge between North and South America). Occasionally continental drift creates a super-continent which includes the vast majority of Earth's land area, which in addition to the effects listed above is likely to reduce the total area of continental shelf (the most species-rich part of the ocean) and produce a vast, arid continental interior which may have extreme seasonal variations.\n\nAnother theory is that the creation of the super-continent Pangaea contributed to the End-Permian mass extinction. Pangaea was almost fully formed at the transition from mid-Permian to late-Permian, and the \"Marine genus diversity\" diagram at the top of this article shows a level of extinction starting at that time which might have qualified for inclusion in the \"Big Five\" if it were not overshadowed by the \"Great Dying\" at the end of the Permian.\n\nMany other hypotheses have been proposed, such as the spread of a new disease, or simple out-competition following an especially successful biological innovation. But all have been rejected, usually for one of the following reasons: they require events or processes for which there is no evidence; they assume mechanisms which are contrary to the available evidence; they are based on other theories which have been rejected or superseded.\n\nScientists have been concerned that human activities could cause more plants and animals to become extinct than any point in the past. Along with human-made changes in climate (see above), some of these extinctions could be caused by overhunting, overfishing, invasive species, or habitat loss. A study published in May 2017 in \"Proceedings of the National Academy of Sciences\" argued that a “biological annihilation” akin to a sixth mass extinction event is underway as a result of anthropogenic causes, such as over-population and over-consumption. The study suggested that as much as 50% of the number of animal individuals that once lived on Earth were already extinct, threatening the basis for human existence too.\n\nThe eventual warming and expanding of the Sun, combined with the eventual decline of atmospheric carbon dioxide could actually cause an even greater mass extinction, having the potential to wipe out even microbes (in other words, the Earth is completely sterilized), where rising global temperatures caused by the expanding Sun will gradually increase the rate of weathering, which in turn removes more and more carbon dioxide from the atmosphere. When carbon dioxide levels get too low (perhaps at 50 ppm), all plant life will die out, although simpler plants like grasses and mosses can survive much longer, until levels drop to 10 ppm.\n\nWith all photosynthetic organisms gone, atmospheric oxygen can no longer be replenished, and is eventually removed by chemical reactions in the atmosphere, perhaps from volcanic eruptions. Eventually the loss of oxygen will cause all remaining aerobic life to die out via asphyxiation, leaving behind only simple anaerobic prokaryotes. When the Sun becomes 10% brighter in about a billion years, Earth will suffer a moist greenhouse effect resulting in its oceans boiling away, while the Earth's liquid outer core cools due to the inner core's expansion and causes the Earth's magnetic field to shut down. In the absence of a magnetic field, charged particles from the Sun will deplete the atmosphere and further increase the Earth's temperature to an average of ~420 K (147 °C, 296 °F) in 2.8 billion years, causing the last remaining life on Earth to die out. This is the most extreme instance of a climate-caused extinction event. Since this will only happen late in the Sun's life, such will cause the final mass extinction in Earth's history (albeit a very long extinction event).\n\nThe impact of mass extinction events varied widely. After a major extinction event, usually only weedy species survive due to their ability to live in diverse habitats. Later, species diversify and occupy empty niches. Generally, biodiversity recovers 5 to 10 million years after the extinction event. In the most severe mass extinctions it may take 15 to 30 million years.\n\nThe worst event, the Permian–Triassic extinction, devastated life on earth, killing over 90% of species. Life seemed to recover quickly after the P-T extinction, but this was mostly in the form of disaster taxa, such as the hardy \"Lystrosaurus\". The most recent research indicates that the specialized animals that formed complex ecosystems, with high biodiversity, complex food webs and a variety of niches, took much longer to recover. It is thought that this long recovery was due to successive waves of extinction which inhibited recovery, as well as prolonged environmental stress which continued into the Early Triassic. Recent research indicates that recovery did not begin until the start of the mid-Triassic, 4M to 6M years after the extinction; and some writers estimate that the recovery was not complete until 30M years after the P-T extinction, i.e. in the late Triassic. Subsequent to the P-T extinction, there was an increase in provincialization, with species occupying smaller ranges – perhaps removing incumbents from niches and setting the stage for an eventual rediversification.\n\nThe effects of mass extinctions on plants are somewhat harder to quantify, given the biases inherent in the plant fossil record. Some mass extinctions (such as the end-Permian) were equally catastrophic for plants, whereas others, such as the end-Devonian, did not affect the flora.\n\n"}
{"id": "11337770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11337770", "title": "Gerichtslinde", "text": "Gerichtslinde\n\nIn the Holy Roman Empire, a (German for \"court linden, doom linden\"; plural ) was a linden tree where assemblies and judicial courts were held. Rooted in Germanic tribal law, the custom has left traces through the Germanic language-speaking areas.\n\nCourt lindens usually were situated outside settlements in open fields \"under the free heaven\". When located in the center of its village, the tree was also at the center of festivities, in this respect known as \"dance linden\". After Christianization, the linden remained associated with justice and benevolent protection, often re-dedicated to Mary mother of Jesus () or to the twelve Apostles ().\n\nMany surviving linden trees may sometimes retain names , or , but often simply \"village linden\". The oldest of them is in Schenklengsfeld, Hesse, planted in the 9th century, in the time of Louis the Younger.\n\nThe 12th century \"Visio Godeschalci\" describes a journey which the pious Holstein peasant Godeskalk believed he had made in the lower world. There is mentioned an immensely large and beautiful linden-tree hanging full of shoes, which were handed down to such dead travellers as had exercised mercy during their lives.\n\nNumerous examples of sacred trees and groves exist amongst the pre-Christian Germanic peoples. The linden is often claimed to have been sacred to Freyja in the pre-Christian period, forming a polarity with the oaks sacred to Donar.\n\nNotable specimens are found in Bargischow, Castell, Frankfurt am Main, Großgoltern, Herzogenreuth, Himmelsberg (Hesse), Hohenpölz, Kierspe, Müden an der Örtze, Neuenrade, Salzhemmendorf, Sachsenbrunn Schaumburg, Upstedt, Waldtann (Kreßberg) and Warmsen.\n\nThe Danish Open Air Museum in northern Copenhagen displays a reconstruction of such a village meeting place for a medieval-era village originally found on the island of Funen, Denmark. Each tenant farmer had his own stone seat beneath the linden and the meeting was presided over by the village elder (, cognate \"alderman\").\n\nThe name of Malters, Canton of Lucerne, Switzerland, derives from \"thing-tree\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52558749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52558749", "title": "Helene Marsh", "text": "Helene Marsh\n\nProfessor Helene Denise Marsh FAA FTSE (born 8 April 1945) is an Australian scientist who has provided research in the field of Environmental Science, more specifically Zoology and Ecology. The focal point of her research has been the biology of dugongs, with particular foci in the areas of population ecology, history, reproduction, diet, and movements. She is the Dean of Graduate Research Studies and the Professor of Environmental Science at James Cook University in Queensland, Australia, and also a Distinguished Professor in the College of Marine and Environmental Science. Marsh is also a program leader for the Marine and Tropical Research Science Facility. In 2015 she was elected a Fellow of both the Australian Academy of Science (FAA), and the Australian Academy of Technological Sciences and Engineering (FTSE).\n\nMarsh's parents always encouraged her to succeed academically, placing value on learning and education throughout her childhood, and expected that all three of their children would eventually attend a university. Her mother started out as a teacher, then when World War II began she enlisted and became the only woman education officer in the Army from Northern Territory. After the war she earned her master's degree. Her father earned degrees in both Economics and Law; he died when Marsh was 13 years old. She has two brothers, one became a Professor of English at the University of London, while the other made films.\n\nMarsh graduated from the University of Queensland in 1968, earning a Bachelor of Science with Honors in Zoology, going on to earn her Ph.D. in Zoology from James Cook University in 1973. In 1991 Marsh became a Professor of Zoology and Director of Environmental Studies at James Cook University, staying in this position until 1994. In 1994 she became the Professor of Environmental Science and the Head of the Department of Tropical Environmental Studies and Geography. In 2000 Marsh became the Dean of Postgraduate Studies. Over the course of her career she has also assisted and supervised 55 Ph.D. and 20 Master's candidates through to their completion.\n\nAfter earning her Bachelor's degree in 1968, Marsh began work for the Commonwealth Scientific and Industrial Research Organisation (CSIRO) in 1968 as an Experimental Officer in Animal Health at the CSIRO research laboratory in Townsville, Queensland. In 1972 she worked as an Honorary Research Associate at the British Museum of Natural History. After two years she returned to James Cook University where she was appointed as a Research Officer in Zoology, eventually being promoted to the part-time position of Research Fellow in Zoology in 1976. She switched to full-time in 1981. Through the 1980s and 1990s she secured multiple positions on various committees at James Cook University.\n\nThe majority of Marsh's research involves the ecology and conservation biology of dugongs and other megafauna, providing advancements in the understanding, management, and care of coastal marine mammals. Her research has covered marine conservation biology, marine natural resource management, indigenous marine resource management, conservation intervention, and marine wildlife population ecology.\n\nMarsh has authored, co-authored, or assisted in over 200 published works. About 100 of these are articles for established journals, one book, several chapters for various books and encyclopedias, technical reports, and conference proceedings.\n"}
{"id": "882884", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=882884", "title": "INF World Rankings", "text": "INF World Rankings\n\nThe INF World Rankings are published by the International Netball Federation (INF) to make it possible to compare the relative strengths of internationally active national netball teams. Initially, rankings were based on the results from the World Netball Championships, and released after the conclusion of each event, every four years. A new ranking system was implemented on 11 February 2008, wherein teams are ranked based on international tests played, currently since July 2010. Teams appear on the rankings list once they have played eight international test matches, starting from July 2010. The rankings are updated by the INF every month. Australia and New Zealand have dominated the INF world rankings in previous years and they are the only two netball nations to have ever held the number one world ranking since its introduction in 2009.\n"}
{"id": "17539307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17539307", "title": "International Society of Limnology", "text": "International Society of Limnology\n\nThe International Society of Limnology is an international scientific society that disseminates information among limnologists, those who study all aspects of inland waters, including their physics, chemistry, biology, geology, and management. It was founded by August Thienemann and Einar Naumann in 1922 as the International Association of Theoretical and Applied Limnology and Societas Internationalis Limnologiae, SIL.\nIt had about 2.800 members in 2008.\n\nSIL publishes the following scientific publications: \n\n(Above list from Jones, 2010)\n\n"}
{"id": "19854847", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19854847", "title": "Joachim Luther", "text": "Joachim Luther\n\nJoachim Luther (born March 31, 1941, in Hannover, Germany) received his PhD in\nexperimental physics at the University of Hannover in 1970. In 1974, he became professor of laser physics at the University of Oldenburg. In the beginning of the 1980s, his scientific interest shifted towards renewable energy sources like solar power and wind power. Since 1993, Luther headed the Fraunhofer Institute for Solar Energy Systems ISE in Freiburg, Germany, then establishing it as the largest research center for solar\nenergy in Europe. Professor Luther retired from ISE in 2006. In 2008, he was asked to head the newly\nfounded Solar Energy Research Institute of Singapore (SERIS).\n\nJoachim Luther served as member of leading advisory boards on renewable energy in Germany and in the European Union. He also was elected, in 1999, to be the Editor-in-Chief of the journal Solar Energy.\n\nIn 2005, Luther was awarded the prestigious Becquerel Prize and the \nGerman Environment Foundation prize. In 2008, he was named one of the Heroes of the Environment (2008) by the Time magazine.\n\n"}
{"id": "53951605", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53951605", "title": "Kömürcübent Nature Park", "text": "Kömürcübent Nature Park\n\nKömürcübent Nature Park () is a nature park located in Sarıyer district of Istanbul Province, Turkey.\n\nKömürcübent is situated inside the Belgrad Forest at Bahçeköy neighborhood of Sarıyer.It is reached after entering the Belgrad Forest through its Bahçeköy Gate, and passing by Neşet Suyu Nature Park and Falih Rıfkı Atay Nature Park. It covers an area of about . The area was declared a nature park by the Ministry of Environment and Forest in 2011, and is one of the nine nature parks inside the Belgrad Forest. The protected area is named for the historic dam Kömürcübent, which was built on Topuz Creek in 1620 by the Ottoman sultan Osman II (reigned 1618–1622). The dam is the oldest one in the Belgrad Forest. Next to the nature park, there is a deer farm. \n\nThe nature park offers outdoor recreation activities such as hiking, cycling and picnicing for visitors on daily basis. There is an outdoor restaurant, an outdoor coffeehouse and playgrounds for children. Admission is charged for visitors and vehicles.\n\nThe nature park is rich on flora and fauna.\n\nDominant tree species are oak (\"Quercus petraea\") and hornbeam (\"Carpinus betulus\") while on the creek banks common ash and alder are found. Other plants of the nature park are blackthorn (\"Prunus spinosa\"),butcher's-broom (\"Ruscus aculeatus\"), Anatolian Sarsaparilla (\"Smilax excelsa\") and European ivy (\"Hedera helix\").\n\nAnimals observed in the nature park are the mammals jackal, porcupine, squirrel, the reptile tortoise, the bird species European goldfinch and finch.\n\n"}
{"id": "81685", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=81685", "title": "Leuce (mythology)", "text": "Leuce (mythology)\n\nIn Greco-Roman mythology, Leuce (, \"White\", specifically \"White Poplar\") was the most beautiful of the nymphs and a daughter of Oceanus. Pluto fell in love with her and abducted her to the underworld. She lived out the span of her life in his realm, and when she died, the god sought consolation by creating a suitable memorial of their love: in the Elysian Fields where the pious spend their afterlife, he brought a white tree into existence. It was this tree with which Heracles crowned himself to celebrate his return from the underworld.\n\nMaurus Servius Honoratus identifies the tree as the white poplar, the leaf of which is distinctively two-sided, one white and one dark. The double color, Servius says, made a wreath that represented the duality of the hero's labors in both the upper and the underworld. The association of white poplar leaves with Herakles is also attested by archaeological remains, such as the poplar-leaf motif carved on a statue base found in a small sanctuary to Herakles (Roman Hercules) along the Tiber river. It has been suggested that behind the vague outlines of this tale lurks an older myth having to do with Herakles' encounter with the river deity Achelous, who had chthonic associations and whose name was the subject of speculative theological etymology among the Greeks, in this case involving \"acherōïs\", another Greek word for \"poplar.\" In a founding myth of the 1st century BC, Herakles is supposed to have established the Arvernian \"oppidum\" of Alesia, the name of which likely derives from the Gaulish word for poplar.\n\nCelebrants of the Bacchic rites wore a wreath of poplar leaves to honor the chthonic aspect of Dionysus.\n\nAt Elis, white poplar was the only wood used in sacrifices to Zeus, according to Pausanias, because Herakles imported the tree and used it to burn the thigh bones of sacrificial victims at Olympia. The oak is the customary sacred tree of Zeus, and the substitution among the Eleans may simply reflect the more widespread growth habit of the poplar there. The hero was supposed to have discovered the tree growing on the banks of the upperworld Acheron in Thesprotia.\nPausanias says this is the reason for the Homeric epithet \"Acherōïda\" for the white poplar, which was also called \"leukē\" in Greek.\n\nThe white poplar might be worn as a crown at athletic contests in honor of Herakles, a patron of the Olympic games. Its infernal origin made it appropriate for funeral games, which played an important role in the development of Greek athletics.\n\nThe white poplar was also sacred to Persephone, for whom Leuce seems to be a doublet, as a goddess of regeneration. Robert Graves used the myth of Leuce in developing his poetic theories of mythology. Graves, for instance, holds that the back of the poplar leaf was turned white by the sweat of Herakles. In \"The White Goddess\", he names the white poplar as one of the \"three trees of resurrection\", along with alder and cypress.\n"}
{"id": "43359254", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43359254", "title": "Liquid droplet radiator", "text": "Liquid droplet radiator\n\nThe liquid droplet radiator (LDR) or previously termed liquid droplet stream radiator is a proposed lightweight radiator for the dissipation of waste heat generated by power plants, propulsion or spacecraft systems in space.\n\nAn advanced or future space mission must have a power source or propulsion that will require the rejection of waste heat.\nDisposing large quantities of waste heat must be considered in order to realize a large-space structure (LSS) that handle high power such as a nuclear reactor or a space solar power satellite (SPS).\nSuch space systems require advanced high-temperature thermal control systems. \nLiquid metal heat pipes with conventional radiators are considered ideally suited for such applications.\nHowever, the required radiator surface area is huge, hence, the system mass is very large. The liquid droplet radiator (LDR) has an advantage in terms of the rejected heat power-weight ratio. The results of the studies indicate that for rejection temperatures below approximately 700 K, the LDR system is significantly lighter in weight than the other advanced radiator concepts. A LDR can be seven times lighter than conventional heat pipe radiators of similar size.\nThe LDR is more resistant to meteorite impacts due to less critical surface or windage, and requires less storage volume. \nTherefore, the LDR has attracted attention as an advanced radiator for high-power space systems.\n\nIn 1978, John M. Hedgepeth proposed, in \"Ultralightweight Structures for Space Power,\" in Radiation Energy Conversion in Space, Vol. 61 of Progress in Astronautics and Aeronautics, K. W. Billman, ed. (AIAA, New York, 1978), p. 126, \nthe use of a dust radiator to reduce the radiator weight of solar power satellites. Practical problems of this dust system led to the LDR concept in 1979.\nNumerous studies have been made by companies, organizations and universities around the world.\n\nPractical experiments were carried out for example with STS-77 and at drop shafts in Japan: Japan Microgravity Center (JAMIC) and Microgravity Laboratory of Japan.\n\nThe liquid droplet radiator (LDR) system consists of a droplet generator, a collector, a heat exchanger, a recirculating pump, and a bellows-type pressure regulator (accumulator). \nWhile undergoing a reduction in pressure the saturated liquid is sprayed into space as coherent streams of tiny, discrete droplets. \nThe droplet stream can be a column or a sheet of liquid droplets moving through space from the droplet generator to the collector. \nThe droplets carry the waste heat generated by a space power system and radiate this waste heat directly to space during their flight by transient radiative heat transfer. \nThe liquid droplets are collected at a lower temperature, reheated, and pumped to the droplet generator and reused to continue to remove waste heat from the thermodynamic power cycle.\n\nThe pressure at which liquid droplets are formed can vary widely in different applications, but it was found that once the droplet flow has been established, substantially lower pressures are needed to maintain the flow of droplet streams.\n\nSpacecraft waste heat is ultimately rejected to space by radiator surfaces. Radiators can be of different forms, such as spacecraft structural panels, flat-plate radiators mounted to the side of the spacecraft, panels deployed after the spacecraft is on orbit, and droplets. \nAll radiators reject heat by infrared (IR) radiation from their surfaces. The radiating power depends on the surface's emittance and temperature. \nThe radiator must reject both the spacecraft waste heat plus any radiant-heat loads from the environment or other spacecraft surfaces.\nMost radiators are therefore given surface finishes with high IR emittance ( > 0.8) to maximize heat rejection and low solar absorption ( < 0.2) to limit heat loads from the sun. \nHigh-temperature radiators are preferred for better efficiency and size reduction considerations, however, fluid property and droplet cloud property are additional factors.\nDroplet size formation and droplet density govern emission and reabsorption. \nA smaller droplet is essential for obtaining effective radiation in the liquid droplet radiator. A droplet with a diameter of 1 μm has been calculated to cool from 500 K to 252 K in two seconds. A dense cloud of the droplet sheet will retard the cooling rate of the droplets because of the reabsorption of the emitted light.\n\nA single droplet radiates heat as it travels through space and at any time this heat loss is given by:\n\nformula_1\n\nwhere formula_2 is the Stefan–Boltzmann constant, \nformula_3 is the droplet heat loss rate to space (joules/second), \nformula_4 is the droplet radius (meters), \nformula_5 is the average gray body view factor for droplet at stream center (less than one), and \nformula_6 is the absolute droplet temperature at any time (kelvin).\n\nThis equation models the droplet as a gray body with\nconstant average emissivity. The instantaneous radiation\nrate is equal to the rate of energy loss resulting in this\nequation:\n\nformula_7\n\nwhere formula_8 is the specific heat capacity, \nformula_9 is the density of droplet (kg/m), \nformula_10 is the droplet transit time (seconds).\n\nThe operating environment is not simply black space, but one with solar radiation and diffuse radiation reflected and emitted from the sun (stars), earth, other objects, and or the ship's own propulsion system. It is possible to \"orient\" the droplet sheet edge towards an external heat source but the sheet area would still be subject to radiation from other sources. Most of the presented solutions of the equation of radiative transfer are practical simplifications by introducing assumptions.\n\nIn order to achieve high collection efficiency splashing of the droplet on the collector surface has to be minimized. It was determined that droplet collector with an incidence angle of 35 degrees can prevent a uniform droplet stream with droplet diameter 250 µm and a velocity of 16 m/s from splashing under microgravity condition.\nAnother solution is to have a liquid film formed on the inner surface of the collector. When the droplet streams are absorbed in this liquid film, no splashes should be formed. A miscapture rate of incoming droplets was required to be less than 10. The droplet diameter was determined to be less than 300 µm and the droplet speed less than 20 m/s.\nIf a ferrofluid is used a magnetic focusing means can effectively suppress splashing.\n\nAs the droplet sheet is in free fall a spacecraft performing a maneuver or angular acceleration would lose coolant. Even a magnetically focused LDR has a very limited tolerance of less than 10 g.\n\nA droplet generator has approximately 10 – 10 holes (orifices) per system with diameters of 50–20 µm.\nThese orifices are more susceptible to damage than a conventional solide radiator or heat pipe which may affect droplet formation and droplet stream flow direction, potentially causing fluid loss.\n\nLiquids with low vapor pressures are preferred for the working fluids to minimize evaporation loss due to flash evaporation.\nLiquids have been found that in the range of 300 to 900 K have a vapor pressure so low that the evaporation loss during the normal lifetime of a space system\n(possibly as long as 30 years) will be only a small fraction of the total mass of the radiator.\nOperating life of the fluid in the LDR environment is affected by thermal stability, oxidative stability, and resistance to radiation.\n\nIf a liquid metal is used as the coolant, the pumping of the liquid may use an electromagnetic device. The device induces eddy currents in the metal that generate a Lorentz force with their associated magnetic fields. The effect is the pumping of the liquid metal resulting in a simplified design with no moving parts. This is known as MHD pumping. \nFor example, a simple mixture of mineral oil and iron filings was found to approximate a suitable ferrofluid for several seconds, before separation of the iron filings and oil was observed in the presence of a magnetic field. At droplet sizes of approximately 200 µm, surface tension will hold the two components at accelerations up to about 1 g.\n\nIf an ionic fluid is used as the coolant, the fluid can be used for momentum transfer between spacecraft traveling at different speeds. It may be possible to synthesize the fluid in-situ. For example, BMIM-BF4 ( [CHN]BF) is 42.5% carbon by mass. Lunar regolith typically contains several compounds with carbon and about 5% of asteroids are carbonaceous chondrites which are rich in carbon as well as metals and water. \nIt may be possible to mine the moon for carbon and combine it with other elements to produce ionic fluid. Another good source of carbon is Mars' largest moon, Phobos, which is a captured asteroid believed to be rich in carbon.\n\nThere are two different droplet collection schemes: the centrifugal approach and the linear collection scheme. The linear collector is considered to be simpler, more reliable and lighter.\n\nSeveral different LDR configurations have been proposed and evaluated.\n\nRectangular and triangular versions of the LDR have been investigated the most.\n\n\nSystem control and \nmonitoring by means of artificial \nintelligence could enhance \nautonomous power system \noperation.\n\nThe LDR is being studied as a byproduct of a concept using a fluid stream for momentum transfer between an approaching spacecraft and another spacecraft, station or moon base. This method could reduce spacecraft mass while increasing space flight efficiency.\n\nA \"Liquid Sheet Radiator\" (LRS), adapted for planetary surfaces, is essentially a fountain enclosed in a transparent envelope. The liquid flows down on the inside of this envelope. The liquid sheet radiator concept is exceptionally stable and does not require special machining of the orifice to achieve its performance.\n\n"}
{"id": "6516852", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6516852", "title": "List of Australian herbs and spices", "text": "List of Australian herbs and spices\n\nAustralian herbs and spices were used by Aboriginal peoples to flavour food in ground ovens. The term \"spice\" is applied generally to the non-leafy range of strongly flavoured dried Australian bushfoods. They mainly consist of aromatic fruits and seed products although Australian wild peppers also have spicy leaves. There are also a small number of aromatic leaves but unlike culinary herbs from other cultures which often come from small soft-stemmed forbs, the Australian herb species are generally trees from rainforests, open forests and woodlands.\n\nAustralian herbs and spices are generally dried and ground to produce a powdered or flaked spice, either used as single ingredient or in blends. \n\nThey were used to a limited extent by colonists in the 18th and 19th centuries. Some extracts were used as flavouring during the 20th century. Australian native spices have become more widely recognised and used by non-indigenous people since the early 1980s as part of the bushfood industry, with increasing gourmet use and export.\n\nThey can also be used as a fresh product. Leaves can be used whole, like a bay-leaf in cooking, or spicy fruits are added to various dishes for flavour.\n\nThe distilled essential oils from leaves and twigs are also used as flavouring products.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "347080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=347080", "title": "List of Brazilian National Forests", "text": "List of Brazilian National Forests\n\nA list of Brazilian National Forests follows. According to the Brazilian National System of Conservation Units, a national forest of Brazil is an area with forest cover of predominantly native species that has as its basic objective the multiple sustainable use of the forest resources and scientific research, with emphasis on methods of sustainable exploitation of native forests.\n\n"}
{"id": "5199353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5199353", "title": "List of Canadian tornadoes and tornado outbreaks", "text": "List of Canadian tornadoes and tornado outbreaks\n\nThis page lists tornadoes and tornado outbreaks which have touched down in Canada prior to the 21st century. On average, there are around 80 confirmed and unconfirmed tornadoes that touch down in Canada each year, with most occurring in Southern Ontario, the southern Canadian Prairies and southern Quebec. Canada ranks as the country with the second most tornadoes per year, after the US. The most common types are F0 to F2 in damage intensity level and usually result in minor structural damage to barns, wood fences, roof shingles, chimneys, uprooted or snapped tree limbs and downed power lines. Fewer than 5% of tornadoes in Canada are rated F3 or higher in intensity, where wind speeds are in excess of . Prior to April 1, 2013, Canada used a slightly modified Fujita scale, and as of that date the Enhanced Fujita scale, again slightly modified, was put into use to rate tornado intensity, based on the damage to buildings and vegetation.\n\nOntario, Alberta, Manitoba and Saskatchewan all average 15 tornadoes per season, followed by Quebec with fewer than 10. New Brunswick and the British Columbia Interior are also recognized tornado zones. All other provinces and territories have significantly less threat from tornadoes. The peak season in Canada is in the summer months when clashing air masses move north, as opposed to the spring season in the United States southern-central plains, although tornadoes in Canada have occurred in spring, fall and very rarely winter.\n\nThe reported increase in numbers of tornadoes in recent years may reflect more reporting by citizens and media involvement rather than an actual increase in tornado occurrence (although some natural increase has not been ruled out), in addition to better detection technology i.e. Doppler weather radar and satellite imagery. The upswing could also be attributed to other factors, such as improved aerial and ground damage assessment after the fact in sparsely populated areas (particularly the case in remote parts of the Canadian Prairies and Northern Ontario, for example), better trained spotter capabilities and increased use of digital recording devices by citizens. Tornadoes in Canada are enough of a threat for a public warning system to be in place, overseen by the national weather agency, Environment Canada (EC).\n\nFor a variety of reasons, such as Canada's lower population density and generally stronger housing construction due to the colder climate, Canadian tornadoes have historically caused far fewer fatalities than tornadoes in the United States. The deadliest tornado in Canadian history, the Regina Cyclone of June 30, 1912, does not even rank in the top 25 when compared to American tornado fatalities. Urban centres are not immune from the threat of severe tornadoes. Nine medium to large size Canadian cities have been hit by significant strength tornadoes (F3 or higher), which caused large-scale damage and fatalities: Regina (1912); Windsor (1946 and 1974); Sarnia (1953); Sudbury (1970); Woodstock (1979); London (1984); Barrie (1985); Edmonton (1987) Goderich (2011), Alonsa, Manitoba (2018) and Ottawa-Gatineau (2018). All figures for damages are in Canadian dollars.\n\n1792\n1829\n1860\n1870\n1879\n\n1880\n1884\n1885\n1888\n\n1892\n\n1898\n\n1902\n1903\n1909\n\n1912\n1915\n1918\n\n1920\n1922\n1923\n1926\n1927\n\n1935\n1936\n1939\n\n1944\n1946\n1948\n1949\n\n1950\n1953\n1954\n1955\n1958\n1959\n\n1962\n1963\n1966\n1967\n1968\n\n1970\n1972\n1973\n1974\n1975\n1977\n1978\n1979\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\"For tornadoes after 2000, see list of 21st-century Canadian tornadoes and tornado outbreaks\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29738823", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29738823", "title": "List of Plasmodium species", "text": "List of Plasmodium species\n\nThe genus \"Plasmodium\" is a member of the order Haemosporidia. It is the largest genus within this order and currently consists of over 250 species. They cause malaria in many different vertebrates.\n\nThe species in this genus are entirely parasitic with part of their life cycle spent in a vertebrate host and another in an invertebrate host - usually a mosquito. Vertebrates infected by members of this genus include mammals, birds and reptiles.\n\nHost range among the mammalian orders is non uniform. At least 29 species infect non human primates; rodents outside the tropical parts of Africa are rarely affected; a few species are known to infect bats, porcupines and squirrels; carnivores, insectivores and marsupials are not known to act as hosts.\n\nThe listing of host species among the reptiles has rarely been attempted. Ayala in 1978 listed 156 published accounts on 54 valid species and subspecies between 1909 and 1975. The regional breakdown was Africa: 30 reports on 9 species; Australia, Asia & Oceania: 12 reports on 6 species and 2 subspecies; Americas: 116 reports on 37 species.\n\nCurrently there are ~550 species recognised in this order organised into 17 genera.\n\nThe diagnostic criteria of this family are:\n\n\n\nMammalian erythrocytes do not possess a nucleus. Although it has been suggested that the nucleus was lost in the erythrocytes better to enable them to traverse capillaries evidence for this is lacking. It appears that this loss along with the mitochondria that the erythrocytes also lose may protect the erythrocytes against oxidative stress.\n\nThe full taxonomic name of a species includes the subgenus but this is often omitted in practice. The full name indicates some features of the morphology and type of host species. Sixteen subgenera are currently recognised.\n\nThe avian species were discovered soon after the description of \"P. falciparum\" and a variety of generic names were created. These were subsequently placed into the genus \"Plasmodium\" although some workers continued to use the genera \"Laverinia\" and \"Proteosoma\" for \"P. falciparum\" and the avian species respectively.\n\nThe 5th and 6th Congresses of Malaria held at Istanbul (1953) and Lisbon (1958) respectively recommended the creation and use of subgenera in this genus. \"Laverinia\" was applied to the species infecting humans and \"Haemamoeba\" to those infecting lizards and birds. This proposal was not universally accepted. Bray in 1955 proposed a definition for the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" and a second for the subgenus \"Laverinia\" in 1958. Garnham described a third subgenus - \"Vinckeia\" - in 1964.\n\nIn 1963 Corradetti, Garnham and Laird proposed a new classification of the avian malaria parasites. They created four sub-genera - \"Giovannolaia\", \"Haemamoeba\", \"Huffia\" and \"Novyella\" - based on the size of the schizonts, the gametocyte forms and the type of exo-erythrocytic schizogony.\n\nAdditional subgenera have been created since.\n\nThe currently recognised subgenera are listed below.\n\n\"Asiamoeba\" Telford 1988\n\"Bennettinia\" Valkiūnas 1997\n\"Carinamoeba\" Garnham 1966\n\"Giovannolaia\" Corradetti, Garnham & Laird 1963 \n\"Haemamoeba\" Grassi & Feletti 1890\n\"Huffia\" Garnham & Laird 1963\n\"Lacertaemoba\" Telford 1988\n\"Laverania\" Bray 1958\n\"Novyella\" Corradetti, Garnham & Laird 1963\n\"Nyssorhynchus\" Poinar 2005\n\"Ophidiella\" Garnham 1966\n\"Papernaia\" Landau \"et al\" 2010\n\"Paraplasmodium\" Telford 1988\n\"Plasmodium\" Bray 1963 emend. Garnham 1964\n\"Sauramoeba\" Garnham 1966\n\"Vinckeia\" Garnham 1964\n\nThe current classification scheme was developed prior to the widespread use of DNA sequence based taxonomy and is based on host and morphological criteria. \"Plasmodium\" has since been shown to be paraphytic with the genera \"Haemoproteus\" and \"Hepatocystis\" (\"vide infra\"). Revision of this genus will be undertaken once sufficient DNA sequence material is available.\n\nThis forthcoming reclassification project is not unique to this genus as DNA based taxonomy is revising many traditional groupings of protozoa.\n\nThe bird infecting taxa can be separated into two groups on the basis of the gametocytes: species with round gametocytes\n(\"Bennettinia\", \"Haemamoeba\") and species with elongated gametocytes (\"Giovanniola\", \"Huffia\" and \"Novyella\"). The monophyly of the \"Bennettinia\", \"Haemamoeba\" and \"Huffia\" subgenera was subsequently confirmed by molecular studies. The other two genera were found to be paraphytic. The genera were then revised and a new subgenus - \"Papernaia\" - was created.\n\n\"Laverania\"\n\nSpecies in this subgenus infect higher primates (including man) and have characteristic sickle shaped female gametocytes.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium falciparum\".\n\n\"Plasmodium\"\n\nSpecies infecting higher primates other than those in the subgenus \"Laverania\" are placed in the subgenus \"Plasmodium\".\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium malariae\".\n\n\"Vinckeia\"\n\nParasites infecting other mammals including lower primates (lemurs and others) are classified in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\".\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium bubalis\".\n\n\"Bennettinia\"\n\nSchizonts contain scant cytoplasm, are often round, do not exceed the size of the host nucleus and stick to it. Gametocytes, while varying in shape tend to be round or oval, do not exceed the size of the nucleus and stick to it.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium juxtanucleare\".\n\n\"Giovannolaia\"\n\nSchizonts contain plentiful cytoplasm, are larger than the host cell nucleus and frequently displace it. They are found only in mature erythrocytes. Gametocytes are elongated. Exoerythrocytic schizogony occurs in the mononuclear phagocyte system.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium circumflexum\".\n\n\"Haemamoeba\"\n\nMature schizonts are larger than the host cell nucleus and commonly displace it. Gametocytes are large, round, oval or irregular in shape and are substantially larger than the host nucleus.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium relictum\".\n\n\"Huffia\"\n\nMature schizonts, while varying in shape and size, contain plentiful cytoplasm and are commonly found in immature erythryocytes. Gametocytes are elongated.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium elongatum\".\n\n\"Novyella\"\n\nMature schizonts are either smaller than or only slightly larger than the host nucleus. They contain scanty cytoplasm. Gametocytes are elongated. Sexual stages in this subgenus resemble those of \"Haemoproteus\". A white/blue globule is present in the cytoplasm. Exoerythrocytic schizogony occurs in the mononuclear phagocyte system\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium vaughani\".\n\n\"Papernaia\"\n\nThe gametocytes are elongated. The schizonts apically or lateroapically placed and are rounded or irregularly shaped. The host nucleus may be tilted.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium polare\"\n\nAlthough over 3200 species of lizard have been identified as hosts to \"Plasmodium\" species, only 29 species of snakes have been. All snake infecting species are placed into the subgenus \"Ophidiella\".\n\n\"Asiamoeba\"\n\nThe schizonts and gametocytes are greatly disparate in size (4 to 15 times).\n\n\"Carinamoeba\"\n\nThe schizonts are small and give rise to 8 or fewer merozoites. The gametocytes like the schizonts are small.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium minasense\".\n\n\"Lacertaemoba\"\n\nThe schizonts are medium-sized and undergo 3 to 5 nuclear divisions. The gametocytes are medium-sized\n\n\"Paraplasmodium\"\n\nThe schizonts are of medium size. Exoerythrocytic schizonts may be produced in both fixed and wandering host cells. The gametocytes are large. One species in this sub-genus is capable of merogony in a vector of the \"Lutzomyia\" genus.\n\n\"Sauramoeba\"\n\nLarge schizonts giving rise to 12 or more merozoites. The gametocytes like the schizonts are large.\nThe asexual stages tend to disappear from the lymphocytes once the gametocytes appear in the lymphocytes. \nThe type species is \"Plasmodium agamae\".\n\n\"Ophidiella\"\n\nThe species in this subgenus infect only snakes.\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium weyoni\".\n\nOne species has been identified from Dominican amber - \"Plasmodium dominicum\". The vertebrate host of this species is unknown but it seems likely that it may have been a bird.\n\n\"Nyssorhynchus\"\n\nThe type species is \"Plasmodium dominicum\".\n\nAlthough the evolution of this genus has been studied by a number of authors, details are still being elucidated. A brief summary of the pattern that has emerged is as follows:\n\nThe most basal split in the genus is between the reptile/bird species and the mammalian species. The bird/reptile clade appears to be related to the genera \"Haemoproteus\", \"Leukocytozoon\" and \"Polychromophilus\". The genus \"Hepatocystis\" appears to have evolved from with the mammalian species clade. Within the mammalian species the subgenus \"Laverinia\" appears to be basal with the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" and the rodent species being sister clades. \"Hepatocystis\" appears to have diverged after the separation of the rodent species. The species infecting lemurs may belong in the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" instead of their current placement within the subgenus \"Vinckeia\".\n\nWithin the subgenus \"Plasmodium\", \"P. vivax\" groups with an Asian clade which appears to be rooted in Africa. \"P. malaria\" and \"P. ovale\" both belong to an African clade and are more closely related to each other than to \"P. vivax\". Within the subgenus \"Laverinia\" P. falciparum and \"P. reichenowi\" form a clade while the other four known species form a second clade.\n\nThere are a number of additional species in these taxa that await full description so changes to the branching order are likely. However the overall arrangement outlined above seems to be supported by a number of studies by different authors and is unlikely to change. Given the recently recognised paraphytic nature of several of the taxa above, the introduction of new genera and possibly families in the near future seems highly likely.\n\nWhile most phylogenetic trees have tended to agree that \"Plasmodium\" has descended from \"Leukocytozoon\" or \"Haemoproteus\" like species a Bayesian phylogenetic reconstruction suggests that \"Plasmodium\" may be the ancestral genus that has given rise to \"Haemoproteus\" and other genera. Further study in this area is required.\n\nAnother Bayesian analysis has suggested the following taxonomy: Mammalian \"Plasmodium\" and \"Hepatocystis\" are sister clades with \"Hepatocystis\" having evolved from within the genus \"Plasmodium\"; the bird and reptile species are intermixed and basal to the mammalian \"Plasmodium\"/\"Hepatocystis\" species; the reptilian/bird \"Plasmodium\" species are a sister clade to the genus \"Polychromophilus\"; \"Leukocytozoon\" and \"Haemoproteus\" and sister clades; the \"Leukocytozoon\"/\"Haemoproteus\" clade is a sister to the \"Parahaemoproteus\" clade; and the \"Parahaemoproteus\"/\"Haemoproteus\"/\"Leukocytozoon\" clade is a sister to the reptilian/bird \"Plasmodium\"/\"Polychromophilus\" clade. This grouping is supported by previous results.\n\nA study of DNA sequences suggests that the genus is paraphytic with \"Hepatocystis\" being related to the mammalian species and \"Polychromophilus\" being related to the reptile species. This study also supports the ancestor of \"Plasmodium\" being a \"Leucocytozoon\" like species and that \"Plasmodium\" is more closely related to the \"Haemoproteus\" - specifically the subgenus \"Parahaemoproteus\" - than to \"Leucocytozoon\".\n\nA paper by Blanquart and Gascuel examined \"Plasmodium\" 84 mitochondrial sequences and included \"Hepatocystis\", \"Haemoproteus\" and \"Leukocytozoon\" sequences. The results agree with the previous analyses showing that \"Hepatocystis\", \"Haemoproteus\" and \"Plasmodium\" appear to be derived from a \"Leukocytozoon\" ancestor. \"Hepatocystis\" appears to be a sister group to the great ape-rodent clade with the lower primate clade being ancestral to all three. In terms of \"Plasmodium\" subgenera they suggest that the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" is ancestral to both \"Laverania\" and \"Vinckeia\".\n\nA study of parasites infecting bats found that the bats were infected by species of the genera \"Hepatocystis\", \"Plasmodium\", \"Polychomophilus\" and \"Nycteria\". A phylogenetic tree which included these genera along with \"Haemoproteus\" and \"Leukocytozoon\" species was examined. As before \"Leukocytozoon\" was basal in this tree. The next clade to diverge was that of the \"Haemoproteus\" species. The remaining genera lay within the currently established genus \"Plasmodium\". The authors suggested that the origin of the \"Plasmodium\"/\"Hepatocystis\" clade was likely to have been in Africa.\n\nWithin this genus the first to diverge were the avian and reptile species. The next clade to diverge was that of the \"Polychomophilus\" species. This was followed in branching order by the \"Nycteria\" species. The subgenus \"Laverinia\" was the next to diverge followed by the subgenus \"Vinckeia\". The crown of the tree was formed by the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" and the genus \"Hepatocytis\". This tree did not support the inclusion of \"P. ovale\" in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\" but agreed with previous analyses suggesting that \"P. malaria\" is more closely related to the Asian clade than \"P. ovale\" is. Several of the bat infecting \"Plasmodium\" species appear to be related to the rodent species.\n\nBats appear to have evolved ~ in Africa which - assuming that the phylogenetic tree in Schaer \"et al\" is correct - places an upper limit on the date for the evolution of the mammalian species of \"Plasmodium\".\n\nAnother study of the genera \"Leucocytozoon\", \"Haemoproteus\", \"Parahaemoproteus\", \"Polychromophilus\" and \"Plasmodium\" found that \"Leucocytozoon\" occupied a basal position and that \"Polychromophilus\" and \"Plasmodium\" were sister clades.\n\nA study of \"Polychromophilus\" species found that this genus lies within the avian/reptile clade of \"Plasmodium\" species.\n\nA study of mitochondrial, plastid and nuclear genes of the species \"Plasmodium odocoilei\" suggests that this species is actually two species that dierged between and . The phyogenetic tree suggests that the genus \"Nycteria\" belongs in a clade that contains the lizard and bird species, that \"Polychromophilus\" form a clade with \"P. odocoilei\" and that \"Hepatocystis\" species in bats forms a clade with the primate and rodent species. It also suggests that the closest relation to \"Plasmodium\" - other than \"Nycteria\", \"Polychromophilus\" and \"Hepatocystis\" - is the subgenus \"Parahaemaproteus\" and that this sugbenus is more closed related to \"Plasmodium\" that to the genus \"Haemoproteus\". This study suggests that the subgenus \"Vinkeia\" is now in need of revision.\n\nAnother paper suggests the transfer of the ancestor of \"Plasmodium\" from lizards to bats without passage via birds.\n\nA study of \"Nycteria\" suggests that \"Leukocytozoon\" is basal, followed by \"Heamoproteus\". The sister group to \"Plasmodium\"/\"Nycteria\"/\"Polychromophilus\"/\"Hepatocystis\" is \"Paraheamaproteus\". \"Hepatocystis\" appears to be a derived clade arising from with the subgenus \"Plasmodium\". \"Polychromophilius\" is more closely related to the bird/lizard group than to the mammal infecting species. \"Nycteria\" is the sister taxon to the genus \"Plasmodium\".\n\nThe genome of \"Haemoproteus tartakovskyi\" has been sequenced. Its genome (23.2 megabases) is similar in size to those of \"Plasmodium\". Its GC content is 25.4% which is closer to that of \"P. falciparum\" (19.3%) than to \"P. vivax\" (42.3%). Phylogenetic analyses place it as basal to \"Plasmodium\" species. Its inclusion in a phylogenetic tree suggests that the mammalian species are monophytic.\n\nA study of 114 mitochondrial genomes from species belonging to four genera - \"Haemoproteus\", \"Hepatocystis\", \"Leucocytozoon\" and \"Plasmodium\" - has shown that like \"Plasmodium\", \"Leucocytozoon\" and \"Haemoproteus\" are not monophyletic taxa. The estimated times of the divergence of these genera was after the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary (about ) and coincided with the evolution of the extant avian orders.\n\nThe presence of \"Plasmodium dominicana\" and the related species \"Vetufebrus ovatus\" in Dominican amber suggests that this genus was present after the Cretaceous-Paleogene boundary (about ). Although Poinar has suggested a date of ~, the precise dating of Dominican amber is controversial so an exact date for these species cannot currently be safely assigned.\n\nAnother study found that \"Haemoproteus\" consists of two taxa and that the genus \"Plasmodium\" is paraphyletic with respect to \"Hepatocystis\". The same study also found that \"Plasmodium\" species of mammals form a well supported clade and this clade was associated with specialization to \"Anopheles\" mosquito vectors. The \"Plasmodium\" of birds and squamate reptiles all fall within a single clade with evidence for repeated switching between birds and squamate hosts.\n\nOne study using Bayesian factors to identify the root of the phylogenetic tree has suggested that \"Plasmodium\" may be basal to \"Haemoproteus\", \"Leucocytozoon\", \"Paraheamoproteus\" and \"Polychromophilus\". This tree also grouped \"Hepatocystis\" with \"Plasmodium\".\n\n\"Rayella\" is thought to have originated from \"Hepatocystis\".\n\nA study of the genera \"Hepatocystis\", \"Nycteria\", \"Plasmodium\" and \"Polychromophilus\" found that \"Polychromophilus\" was basal to the other genera and that \"Plasmodium\" and \"Hepatocystis\" were sister clades.\n\nThe evidence suggests the following evolutionary scenario: \"Plasmodium\" evolved from a \"Leucocystis\" like ancestor. This ancestor gave rise to the subgenus \"Parahaemoproteus\". Both of these taxons infect birds. \"Plasmodium\" evolved from its \"Parahaemoproteus\" ancestor when it gained the ability to infect lizards. After this \"Plasmodium\" diverged into a mammal infecting clade and a bird/lizard infecting clade. Within the bird/lizard clade some species developed the ability to infect bats (\"Nycteria\"). Within the mammalian clade a number of species have also developed the ability to infect bats (\"Hepatocystis\"). Since \"Haemoproteus\" evolved after the evolution of birds this would suggest that an upper limit for the evolution of this genus is approximately . The \"Columbidae\" - hosts of the \"Haemoproteus\" species - evolved in South East Asia. It is possible that this also was the origin of the genus \"Haemoproteus\".\n\nThis upper limit may be further reduced. The genus \"Leucocytozoon\" is thought to have evolved in the Oligocene. This would place an upper limit of for the evolution of the genus \"Leucocytozoon\". This is in agreement with an estimate of the time of the basal radiation of the genus \"Plasmodium\". This date of origin lies within the range of other estimates suggesting that it is plausible. This suggestion is supported by other analyses.\n\nThe Piroplasma are usually considered to be the closest relations to the Haemosporidians. Based on the evolution of their vectors (ticks) they may have evolved ~. The vectors of \"Babesia\" and \"Theileria\" - ticks - evolved ± . The hard (Ixodidae) and soft bodied (Argasidae) ticks diverged ± . The most likely place of origin of the ticks is Northern Gondwana and most probably within the region that now constitutes Eastern Africa.\n\nA molecular Bayesian study of \"Babesia\" and \"Theileria\" species along with \"Plasmodium\" species suggests that \"Babesia\" and \"Theileria\" are sister clades and that they diverged from \"Plasmodium\" ~ (95% credible interval: - ) The dating in this study used a date of for the origin of the genus \"Plasmodium\". The authors also estimated that \"Theileria\" evolved (95% credible interval – ) and that \"Babesia\" evolved (95% credible interval –)\n\nAnother analysis suggests that \"Babesia\" and \"Theileria\" are more closely related to the adeleid species than to \"Plasmodium\".\n\nAn examination of sequences from \"Babesiidae\", \"Cryptosporiidae\", \"Eimeriidae\", \"Plasmodiidae\", \"Sarcocystiidae\", \"Theileriidae\", a \"Perkinsus\" species and 2 dinoflagellates suggests that \"Plasmodium\" and \"Cryptosporidium\" are sister taxa and that \"Hepatozoon\" is basal to them.\n\nMorrison has shown using molecular data that the Haemosporidia are nested within the gregarines and that this clade is distinct from the piroplasms. This latter clade is a sister group of the coccidians.\n\nExamination of the actin genes suggests that \"Plasmodium\" is more closely related to the coccidians than to the \"Babesia\"/\"Theileria\" clade. It also suggests that \"Cryptosporium\" is basal in the Apicomplexa: this latter finding is consistent with other analyses.\n\nA number of useful phylogenetic trees of this genus have been published:\n\nFrom these trees it is clear that:\n\n\nThe bird and lizard species are intermixed as previously found.\n\nAn analysis of the rodent genera (\"Plasmodium berghei\", \"Plasmodium chabaudi\", \"Plasmodium vinckei\" and \"Plasmodium yoelii\") suggests that these species may actually be species complexes. The separation of \"P. chabaudi\" and \"P. vinckei\" has been estimated to be between and while that of \"P. berghei\" and \"P. yoelii\" has been placed at and .\n\nA paper that included five unnamed lemur species suggested that \"P. ovale\" is more closely related to the lemur species than to the other primate ones. It also suggested that the lemur/\"P. ovale\" clade is a sister clade of the rodent species. While this is consistent with the placement of the lemur and rodent species in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\" it is inconsistent with the current placement of \"P. ovale\" within the subgenus \"Plasmodium\". This paper also supports a basal divergence within the mammalian species into the subgenus \"Laverinia\" and the others. The subgenera \"Plasmodium\" and \"Vinckeia\" with the exception of \"P. ovale\" appear to be sister clades.\n\nAnalysis of the apicoplast genes auggests that \"P. ovale\" is related to the rodent species. This is consistent with its relationship with the lemur species in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\".\n\nExamination of the protease gene (SERA) in 18 species has shown that the ancestral state had only a single gene and that gene duplications have occurred in the extant species. This paper confirms the groupings found elsewhere with an Asian clade. The rodent species seem to be more closely related to the \"Laverania\" subgenus than does the subgenus \"Plasmodium\".\n\nA deletion mutation of ~100 base pairs including part of the LS1 rRNA gene is found in the sequences of two African species - \"P. gonderi\" and an undescribed parasite taken from a mandrill - and 2 Asian species - \"P. cynomolgi\" and \"P. simiovale\". This mutation was not found in the other species examined (\"Leucocytozoon caulleryi\", \"Leucocytozoon sabrazesi\", \"P. bergei\", \"P. chabaudi\", \"P. falciparum\", \"P. floridense\", \"P. gallacium\", \"P. fragile\", \"P. juxtanucleare\", \"P. knowelsi\", \"P. mexicanum\", \"P. reichenowi\", \"P. relictum\", \"P. simiae\", \"P. vivax\", \"P. yoelii\" and two unnamed \"Haemoproteus\" species.) These mutations are rare events and strongly suggests these species are related.\n\nAnother paper suggests that after the mammalian-reptile/bird species split that the subgenus \"Laverina\" is basal among the mammal species. This study did not include mammalian infecting species other than primate and rodent species and for this reason \"Laverina\" may not be as basal as the study suggests. The remaining branching order is consistent with other analyses placing the rodent species as the first branch after the \"P. falciparum\"/\"P. reichenowi\" clade. It places \"P. malaria\" and \"P. ovale\" as being more closely related to each other than to \"P. vivax\". This is consistent with the proposed Asian origin of \"P. vivax\".\n\nAlthough bird malaria species use a variety of mosquito vectors from the genera \"Aedes\", \"Anopheles\", \"Culex\", \"Culiseta\", \"Mansonia\" and \"Psorophora\", all mammalian species use vectors only from the genus \"Anopheles\". This host switch seems to have been associated with a specialization with a particular genus of mosquito.\n\nThe ability to store haemozoin appears to have evolved only once in the common ancestor of \"Haemoproteus\", \"Hepatocystis\" and \"Plasmodium\".\n\nA study of the relationships between \"Haemocystis\", \"Haemoproteus\", \"Leucocytozoon\" and \"Plasmodium\" suggests that (1) \"Leucocytozoon\" is basal (2) \"Haemoproteus\" is a sister clade to the remainder (3) \"Parahaemoproteus\" is a sister to \"Plasmodium\" and (4) \"Haemocystis\" is nested within \"Plasmodium\". As before the bird/lizard species form a distinct clade.\n\nIn birds the \"Haemoproteus\" and \"Leucocytozoon\" species rarely change transmission area. These parasites are restricted to one resident bird fauna over a long evolutionary time span and are not freely spread between the continents with the help of migratory birds. Lineages of the genus \"Plasmodium\" in contrast seem more freely spread between the continents. This suggests that the origin on the genus \"Plasmodium\" may have coincided with the ability to transfer between avian hosts more easily than the other genera.\n\nAn analysis of a large number of genera suggested that the taxonomy may need revision. \"Leucocytozoon\" appears to be basal to most of the Haemosporidia. The genera \"Heamoproteus\" and \"Parahaemaproteus\" are the next most basal clade. At least one species in the \"Heamoproteus\" genus grouped with the main \"Plasmodium\" clade. Within the \"Plasmodium\" clade lay the genera \"Hepatocystis\", \"Nycteria\" and \"Polychromophilus\". \"Plasmodium odocoiliei\" appeared to be very divergent in the clade. Within the palsmodium clade the reptile species formed one grouping while the subgenera \"Laverinia\", \"Plasmodium\" and \"Vinkeia\" also formed subgroupings. These results if confirmed suggest that the taxonomy of the group will need substantial revision.\n\nAll dates estimated so far using a molecular clock should probably be regarded with some suspicion given the existing disagreements between the various authors.\n\nThe branching order suggested by other analyses concurs with an analysis of the mitochondrial genes This latter paper puts the divergence between the reptile-bird and mammal clades at ± 3.2 million years ago (Mya). Other divergence times reported include\n\n\nAn estimate of the dates of evolution of several species using the date of separation of the African species \"P. gonderi\" and the Asian clade at gives estimates as follows:\n\n\nAnalysis of 45 single copy nuclear genes from eight species (\"P. berghei\", \"P. chabaudi\", \"P. falciparum\", \"P. gallinaceum\", \"P. knowlesi\", \"P. reichenowi\", \"P. vivax\", \"P. yoelii\") using several different phylogenetic methods suggest a divergence date between \"Theileria\" and \"Plasmodium\" between and . Estimates of the mutation rates suggest a date of divergence between \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" between and .\n\nThe estimated date of divergence between \"P. vivax\" and \"P. knowlesi\" was between and . This latter period coincides with the radiation of the Old World monkeys which these parasites infect. The date of divergences between \"P. berghei\", \"P. chabaudi\" and \"P. yoelii\" was estimated to be between and . The main radiation of the rodent family Muridae occurred ~.\n\nA paper based on the analysis of 22 nuclear genes suggests a radiation of malarial parasites within the Oligocene (34-23 million years ago).\n\nAnother paper examining the dates of evolution using the concatenated sequences of the cytochrome c oxidase III, cytochrome c oxidase I and cytochrome b genes - all from the mitochondrion - suggested the following dates for the evolution of the species examined (\"P. coatneyi\", \"P. cynomolgi\", \"P. falciparum\", \"P. fieldi\", \"P. fragile\", \"P. gonderi\", \"P. hylobati\", \"P. inui\", \"P. knowlesi\", \"P. malariae\", \"P. ovale\", \"P. reichenowi\", \"P. simiovale\", \"P. vivax\") was as follows:\n\nAsian-African primate clade divergence: -\n\nPrimate-rodent clade divergence: -\n\nReptile/bird-mammal clade divergence: -\n\nAn estimation of the date of evolution of this genus based upon the mutation rate in the cytochrome b gene places the evolution of \"P. falciparum\" at . The authors also estimated that the mammalian species of this genus evolved and that the order Haemosporida evolved . While the date of evolution of \"P. falciparum\" is consistent with alternative methods, the other two dates are considerably more recent than other published estimates and probably should be treated with caution.\n\nAnother paper which examined primate, rodent, lemur, bird and reptile species suggests that the genus originated between and . The split between the reptile/bird and mammalian species occurred between and . The first division in the mammalian species was between \"Laverinia\" and the others species. The separation of \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" was estimated to be between and . The bonobo strains of \"P. falciparum\" of were the closest relations to those of humans. This analysis grouped \"P. ovale\" with the lemur species and this clade as a sister clade to the rodent species. While this is consistent with the current placement of the lemur species with the rodent species in the subgenus \"Vinckeia\", it is inconsistent with the current placement of \"P. ovale\" in the subgenus \"Plasmodium\". The date of separation of \"P. ovale\" from the lemur species was estimated to be and and their date of divergence from the rodent species was dated to between and . The rodent species first diverged between and . \"P. atherui\" appears to be more closely related to the \"P. berghei\"/\"P. yoelli\" clade than to \"P. chabaudi\". \"P. malariae\" evolved between and and is more closely related to \"P. vivax\" than to \"P. ovale\". \"P vivax\" and \"P. cynomogli\" last shared an ancestor between and . The origin of the Asian clade was placed between and .\n\nAnother estimate of the dates of evolution has proposed that the mammalian \"Plasmodium\" parasites originated over 64 million years ago and that split between \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" occurred 3.0-5.5 million years ago. These authors suggested that the split between \"P. vivax\" and \"P knowlesi\" occurred - million years ago. This paper also suggested that the genus \"Plasmodium\" evolved between and . \n\nAnother study has placed the evolution of the subgenus \"Laverina\" between and . The same paper estimated the \"P. billbrayi\" - \"P.gaboni\" split between and and the \"P. reichenowi\" - \"P. falciparum\" between and .\n\nBats evolved between and Since it appears that the mammalian infecting \"Plasmodium\" species evolved from a bat infecting species, this estimate may provide an upper limit for the date of evolution of these species of \"Plasmodium\". A larger study suggests that bats evolved This upper limit for the date of bat infecting parasites is consistent with the estimates of the dates of evolution of the mammalian infecting \"Plasmodium\" species.\n\nThe divergence of Old World monkeys and apes has been dated to to . Since the subgenus \"Laverinia\" infects apes rather than monkeys, this date suggests an upper limit for the evolution of this subgenus. This date also places an upper limit on the date when the species infecting Old World monkeys evolved.\n\nA Bayesian estimate has suggested that the genus \"Plasmodium\" evolved about . The authors also found that the lemur clade evolved about , the rodent species about , the two known ovale species about and the Asian species about . The subgenus \"Laverinia\" evolved about .\n\nThe branching order in this subgenus suggests that \"P. billbrayi\" and \"P. gaboni\" are sister species and form an early diverging clade. \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" are sister species and they are related to \"P. billcolinsi\".\n\nA Bayesian estimate of the date of the most recent common ancestor of the rodent species put this between and .\n\nAn estimate based on the genome sequences of \"Plasmodium gallinaceum\" and \"Plasmodium relictum\" and the previously sequenced mammalian parasite genomes has suggested a divergence date of This estimate was based on a separation date of 1 million years for the two ovale species. The dates seem to be at odds with other estimates. This may be because the date of separation of the ovale species currently has considerable variance: the 95% confidence interval in one paper was 0.5 – 7.7 Mya.\n\nFour species (\"P. billbrayi\", \"P. billcollinsi\", \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\") form a clade within the subgenus \"Lavernia\". This subgenus is more closely related to the other primate species than to the bird species or the included \"Leuocytozoon\" species. Both \"P. billbrayi\" and \"P. billcollinsi\" infect both the chimpanzee subspecies included in this study (\"Pan troglodytes troglodytes\" and \"Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii\"). \"P. falciparum\" infects the bonbo (\"Pan paniscus\") and \"P. reichenowi\" infects only one subspecies (\"Pan troglodytes troglodytes\"). Caution has been raised about the adequacy of the description of these new species.\n\nA report of a new species that clusters with \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" in chimpanzees has been published, although to date the species has been identified only from the sequence of its mitochondrion. Further work will be needed to describe this new species, however, it appears to have diverged from the \"P. falciparum\"- \"P. reichenowi\" clade about . A second report has confirmed the existence of this species in chimpanzees. This report has also shown that \"P. falciparum\" is not a uniquely human parasite as had been previously believed. A third report on the epidemiology of \"P. falciparum\" has been published. This study investigated two mitochondrial genes (\"cytB\" and \"cox1\"), one plastid gene (\"tufA\"), and one nuclear gene (\"ldh\") in 12 chimpanzees and two gorillas from Cameroon and one lemur from Madagascar. \"Plasmodium falciparum\" was found in one gorilla and two chimpanzee samples. Two chimpanzee samples tested positive for \"Plasmodium ovale\" and one for \"Plasmodium malariae\". Additionally one chimpanzee sample showed the presence of \"P. reichenowi\" and another \"P. gaboni\". A new species - \"Plasmodium malagasi\" - was provisionally identified in the lemur. This species seems likely to belong to the \"Vinckeia\" subgenus but further work is required.\n\nA study of ~3000 wild ape specimens collected from Central Africa has shown that \"Plasmodium\" infection is common and is usually with multiple species. The ape species included in the study were western gorillas (\"Gorilla gorilla\"), eastern gorillas (\"Gorilla beringei\"), bonobos (\"Pan paniscus\") and chimpanzees (\"Pan troglodytes\"). 99% of the strains fell into six species within the subgenus \"Laverina\". \"P. falciparum\" formed a monophyletic lineage within the gorilla parasite radiation suggesting an origin in gorillas rather than chimpanzees.\n\nIt has been shown that \"P. falciparum\" forms a clade with the species \"P. reichenowi\". This clade may have originated between and 10000 years ago. It is proposed that the origin of \"P. falciparum\" may have occurred when its precursors developed the ability to bind to sialic acid Neu5Ac possibly via erythrocyte binding protein 175. Humans lost the ability to make the sialic acid Neu5Gc from its precursor Neu5Ac several million years ago and this may have protected them against infection with \"P. reichenowi\".\n\nAnother paper has suggested that the \"P. falciparum\" isolates found in apes are derived from humans and that \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" diverged when humans and chimpanzees/gorillas did (between and ).\n\nIt is considered that \"P. falciparum\" in humans originated from a single transmission event and that the great apes do not represent a potential reservoir for on going transmission.\n\nThe origin of \"P. falciparum\" in humans seems likely to have been from bonobos rather than gorillas or chimpanzees.\n\nAnother estimate of the most recent common ancestor of the extant strains that has been published is 452,000 years ago.\n\nA review of this subgenus has been published Based on the analysis of the cytochrome b gene the relationships in this subgenus appear to as follows: \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" are sister species. Their closest relation is \"P. billcollinsi\". \"P. gaboni\" and \"P. billbrayi\" are sister species whose closest relation is \"P. gora\". \"P. gorb\" is more closely related to the \"P. falciparum\"/\"reichenowi\"/\"billcollinsi\" clade than the \"P. gaboni\"/\"billbrayi\"/\"gora\" clade. This putative taxonomy will need confirmation from other DNA studies. A second study seems to confirm this proposed grouping.\n\nThe dates of the evolution of the species within the subgenus \"Laverania\" have been estimated as follows:\n\n\nAnother estimate using the mutation rate (1.2 x 10 subsititutions/site/year) of the cytochrome b gene placed the spread of \"P. falciparum\" to humans at 365,000 years ago (95% credible interval: 112,000 to 1,036,000 years).\n\nRevised names have been proposed for the \"P. gora\" and \"P. gorb\" species - \"Plasmodium blacklocki\" and \"Plasmodium adleri\" respectively. These names were chosen to honour the malariologists Saul Adler (1895–1966) and Donald Blacklock (1879–1953). It has also been proposed that the \"P. falciparum\" strains infecting gorillas should be renamed \"Plasmodium praefalciparum\". This proposal appears to have been accepted. The species \"P. billbrayi\" seems to be synonymous with earlier named \"P. gaboni\".\n\nHost-parasite relations:\n\n\nAnother analysis has proposed the following arrangement of species: \"P. billcollinsi\", \"P. gaboni\" and \"P. reichenowi\" only infect chimpanzees while \"P. adleri\", \"P. blacklocki\" and \"P. praefalciparum\" only infect gorillas. \"P. praefalciparum\" appears to be the closest relation to \"P. falciparum\".\n\nA review of the genomes of all the known species in this subgenus found that the divergence between \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. praefalciparum\" occurred between 40,000 and 60,000 years ago. The expansion of \"P. falciparum\" encountered a bottle neck between 4,000 and 6,000 years ago.\n\nIt appears that \"P. falciparum\" has been introduced into South America on several occasions. The extant strains fall into two clades - one northern and one southern. The most probable origin of these strains is Africa and it seems that they were introduced with the slave trade.\n\nAnalysis of 45 single copy nuclear genes from eight species (\"P. berghei\", \"P. chabaudi\", \"P. falciparum\", \"P. gallinaceum\", \"P. knowlesi\", \"P. reichenowi\", \"P. vivax\", \"P. yoelii\") using several different phylogenetic methods suggest a divergence data between 294 and 314 between \"Theileria\" and \"Plasmodium\". Estimates of the mutation rates suggest a date of divergence between \"P. falciparum\" and \"P. reichenowi\" between and .\n\nAnalysis of polymorphisms in the mitochondrial genes suggests a sub Saharan origin for \"P. falciparum\" with separate colonisations of Southeast Asia and Oceania. Given the distributions of the other members of \"Laverinia\" it seems likely all the known members of this subgenus originated in Africa.\n\nAnother species - \"Plasmodium lomamiensis\" - has been described from bonobos. The name is derived from the Lomami National Park where the parasite was first identified. The relationship of this species to others in the subgenus has yet to be clarified.\n\nColobine and macaque monkeys migrated from Africa into the Eurasian continent 10 and 6 millions of years ago respectively and became the ancestors of the extant Asian Old World monkey species. Asian Old World monkey malaria parasite species infect both colobine and macaque monkeys. The existing divergence between the Asian and African clade of this subgenus seems likely to have been caused by intercontinental allopatric speciation along with that of their hosts.\n\nMalaria parasites of the lemurs are not traditionally grouped with the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" being placed rather within subgenus \"Vinckeia\". This classification may not be correct. Based on an analysis of the mitochondria, these parasites seem to group with the others infecting primates. The origin of the primate infecting species (excluding those in the \"Laverina\" subgenus) may date back to the Eocene - a time when the primate radiation began. This analysis also suggests that the species infecting gorillas and humans may have originated in chimps.\n\nAt least nine species belong to the 'Asian' clade of \"Plasmodium\". These species include \"Plasmodium coatneyi\", \"Plasmodium cynomolgi\", \"Plasmodium fieldi\", \"Plasmodium fragile\", \"Plasmodium inui\", \"Plasmodium hylobati\", \"Plasmodium simiovale\", \"Plasmodium simium\" and \"Plasmodium vivax\".\n\nAs a rule (with the noticeable exception of \"P. knowesli\"), the Asian species have a 72-hour intra erythroctytic life cycle.\nAnalysis of the merozoite surface protein in ten species of the Asian clade suggest that this group diversified between 3 and 6.3 million years ago - a period that coincided with the radiation of the macques within South East Asia. The inferred branching order differs from that found from the analysis of other genes suggesting that this phylogenetic tree may be difficult to resolve. Positive selection on this gene was also found.\n\nIn an analysis of the SSU rRNA gene it was found that all Asian simian \"Plasmodium\" species have a single S-type-like gene and several A-type-like genes. A 50 residue insertion in the V7 variable region near the stem 43 is shared exclusively by the S-type like sequences of the Asian simian \"Plasmodium\" species and the S- and O-type sequences of \"P. vivax\". This is consistent with their shared ancestry.\n\n\"Plasmodium vivax\" may have originated in Asia and the related species \"Plasmodium simium\" appears to be derived through a transfer from the human \"P. vivax\" to New World monkey species in South America. This was proposed in a study of howler monkeys near São Paulo, Brasil.\n\nAnother paper has suggested an African origin for \"P. vivax\".\n\nAnother paper reported the presence of \"P. vivax\" in gorilas and chimpanzees. The DNA sequences analysed fell into two clades. One clade included all the human strains: the second clade seems likely to be an undescribed species. The gorilla and chimpnazee strains did not group by species suggesting that \"P. vivax\" transmission occurs between these species. The authors suggested an Africa origin for \"P. vivax.\"\n\nA paper has suggested that \"P. vivax\" has an African origin and underwent a severe bottleneck and then expanded rapidly once it left Africa.\n\nAn African origin for \"P. vivax\" would explain the presence of \"P. gonderi\" - an Africa species - within this clade. \n\n\"Plasmodium\" species have been isolated from orangutans. These isolates appear to belong to the Asian clade and share an ancestor with \"Plasmodium inui\" and \"Plasmodium hylobati\".\n\n\n\"P. vivax\" appears to have evolved between 45,000 and 82,000 years ago from a species that infects south east Asian macques. This is consistent with the other evidence of a south eastern origin of this species. A second estimate put the earliest date of the evolution of \"P. vivax\" at 265,000 years.\n\nAn estimate of the date of origin of \"P. vivax\" has placed it at 768,000 years ago.\n\nAn estimate of the time of origin of \"P. vivax\" based on nuclear genes suggests that it originated between 232,228 and 303,030 years ago. It may have appeared in India between 79,235 and 104,008 years ago.\n\nA study of \"P. vivax\" in the Americas suggests that the strains in Venezuela and northeastern Brazil diverged from the others ~30,000 years ago. This separation may have occurred before the parasite was introduced into South America.\n\nThe most recent common ancestor of the extant \"P. knowlesi\" strains has been estimated to have appeared 257,000 (95% credibility interval 98,000–478,000) years ago. \"P. knowlesi\" underwent a rapid population growth between approximately 30,000 and 40,000 years ago. This era follows the growth in the human population in this area (~50,000 years ago).\n\n\n\"P. coatneyi\" and \"P. inui\" appear to be closely related to \"P. vivax\".\n\n\"P. vivax\" and \"P. knowesli\" appear to have diverged 25–30 million years ago.\n\n\"P. gonderi\" appears to be basal in this clade. This is consistent with its African distribution rather than the mainly Asian distribution of the other species in this group.\n\nSeveral of the 'Asian' clade - \"Plasmodium coatneyi\", \"Plasmodium cynomolgi\", \"Plasmodium fragile\", \"Plasmodium inui\", \"Plasmodium fieldi\", \"Plasmodium hylobati\", \"Plasmodium inui\", \"Plasmodium knowlesi\" and \"Plasmodium simiovale\" and an African species \"Plasmodium gonderi\" - have a single S-type-like gene and several A-type-like genes. It seems likely that these species form a clade within the subgenus \"Plasmodium\".\n\nThe 'Asian' species form a clade with \"P. simium\" and \"P. vivax\" being clearly closely related as are \"P. knowseli\" and \"P. coatneyi\" and \"P. fragile\"; similarly \"P. brazillium\" and \"P. malariae\" are related. \"P. hylobati\" and \"P. inui\" are closely related. \"P. fragile\" and \"P. gonderi\" appear to be more closely related to \"P. vivax\" than to \"P. malariae\".\n\nAn analysis of four apicoplast genome-encoded genes (small subunit rRNA, large subunit rRNA and caseinolytic protease C) of nine 'Asian' species (\"P. coatneyi\", \"P. cynomolgi\", \"P. fieldi\", \"P. fragile\", \"P. hylobati\", \"P. inui\", \"P. knowlesi\", \"P. simiovale\" and \"P. vivax\") and the African species \"P. gonderi\" suggests that \"P. coatneyi\" and \"P. knowlesi\" are closely related and that \"P. fragile\" is the species most closely related to these two. Also \"P. vivax\" and \"P. cynomolgi\" appear to be related.\n\nThe pattern emerging from this data suggests that the ancestor of \"P. gonderi\" and the 'Asian' clade (\"P. coatneyi\", \"P. cynomolgi\", \"P. fieldi\", \"P. fragile\", \"P. hylobati\", \"P. inui\", \"P. knowlesi\", \"P. simiovale\" and \"P. vivax\") infected a primate host - perhaps the ancestor of the extant rhesus monkey - and migrated with its vertebrate host from Africa to Asia via the Middle East. The Asian branch then gave rise to several clades - \"P. fragile\"-\"P. coatneyi\"/\"P. knowlesi\", \"P. hylobati\"/\"P. inui\" and \"P. cynomolgi\" - \"P. simium\"/\"P. vivax\". \"P. fieldi\", \"P. simiovale\" and \"P. vivax\" appear to be relatively early diverging species within this clade. \"P. fieldi\" and \"P. simiovale\" appear to be each other's closest relations.\n\nA summary of the currently understood branching order is as follows:\n\n\nThis branching order may have to be revised as more data becomes available. The timing of these events is still rather uncertain.\n\nThe African species \"P. georgesi\" appears to be a close relation of \"P. gondori\".\n\nAnother paper suggests that \"P. coatneyi\" and \"P. knowlesi\" are sister species while \"P. hylobati\" and \"P. inui\" are also sister species. This analysis supports the grouping of \"P. fieldi\" and \"P. semiovale\" as sister species with their closest relation being \"P. cynomogli\". It also agrees with previous analyses that place \"P. simium\" and \"P. vivax\" as sister species. It also agrees that \"P. gondori\" is the African species most closely related to the Asian clade.\n\nThis branching order may have some difficulties. A deletion of the LS1 rRNA gene of \"P. gonderi\" \"P. cynomolgi\" and \"P. simiovale\" has been reported. This mutation was not found in the other species of this group that were examined - \"P. fragile\", \"P. knowelsi\", \"P. simiae\" and \"P. vivax\". These mutations are rare and suggest a relationship between the first three species to the exclusion of the others.\n\n\n\"P. cynomolgi\", \"P. inui\" and \"P. knowlesi\" infect primates of the genus \"Presbytis\".\n\n\"P. cynomolgi\", \"P. fieldi\", \"P. inui\", \"P. knowlesi\" and \"P. semiovale\" infect primates of the genus \"Macaca\".\n\n\"P. georgesi\" and \"P. gondori\" infect primates of the genus \"Cocerebus\".\n\n\"P. gondori\" infects primates of the genus \"Mandillus\".\n\n\nWithin the 'Asian' clade are three unnamed potential species. One infects each of the two chimpanzee subspecies included in the study (\"Pan troglodytes troglodytes\" and \"Pan troglodytes schweinfurthii\"). These appear to be related to the \"P. vivax\"/\"P. simium\" clade.\n\nA new species - yet to be formally described - has been reported from orangutans (\"Pongo pygmaeus\") in Indonesia. This species was identified from mitochondrial DNA in the blood of the hosts. It appears to be related to the other members of the Asian clade.\n\nAnother as yet unnamed species likely to belong to this group has been identified in the mandrill (\"Mandrillus sphinx\").\n\nThe species infecting Old World monkeys (subgenus \"Plasmodium\") seem to form a clade.\n\n\"P. ovale\" is more closely related to \"P. malariae\" than to \"P. vivax\".\n\n\"Plasmodium ovale\" has recently been shown to consist of two cocirculating species - \"Plasmodium ovale curtisi\" and \"Plasmodium ovale wallikeri\". These two species can only be distinguished by genetic means and they separated between and . A second estimate has placed the separation of these species at (95% confidence interval 0.7-7.7 Mya)\n\n\"P. ovale\", based on an analysis of the apicoplast genome, appears to be related to the rodent species suggesting an ancestral host switch.\n\nThe relationship between the \"P. ovale\" species and those with rodent hosts has been confirmed by sequencing the genomes of both \"P. ovale species\".\n\nOne paper has reported a strain of malaria in a chimpanzee with a mitochondrial sequence identical to that of \"P. ovale\" and a second closely related to it. It seems likely as has been proposed earlier that \"P. ovale\" may have an animal reservoir.\n\nTwo unnamed potential species infect the bonbo (\"Pan paniscus\") and these are related to the \"P. malariae\"/\"P. brazillium\" clade.\n\nThe species \"P. gonderi\" appears to be the closest relation to the Asian clade.\n\n\"Plasmodium malariae\" has been considered to be closely related to \"Plasmodium brasilianum\" and \"Plasmodium rhodiani\". These species may be a single species with multiple hosts. Because the number of strains that have examined to date remains small, retirement of the \"brasilianum\" and \"rhodiani\" species names to junior synonym status should probably be delayed.\n\nAlthough the branching order among the mammalian clades has not yet been determined the branching order in the rodent infections species has been studied. The rodent parasites (\"P. berghei\", \"P. chabaudi\", \"P. vinckei\" and \"P. yoelii\") seem to form a distinct clade. \"P. berghei\" and \"P. yoelii\" appear to be sister species as do \"P. chabaudi\" and \"P. vinckei\". The separation dates between \"P. berghei\" and \"P. yoelii\" has been estimated to be (95% credibility interval 2.5 - 6.0); that between \"P. chabaudi\" and \"P. vinckei\" has been estimated to be (95% credibility interval 5.5 - 12.6); and that between the \"P. berghei\"/\"P. yoelii\" and \"P. chabaudi\"/\"P. vinckei\" clades to be (95% credibility interval 9.0 - 17.5). These estimates are consistent with those from another paper that included a number of primate infecting species.\n\n\"P. atheruri\" appears to be the sister species of \"P. vinckei\".\n\nA recently (2009) described species (\"Plasmodium hydrochaeri\") that infects capybaras (\"Hydrochaeris hydrochaeris\") may complicate the phylogentics of this genus. This species appears to be most similar to \"Plasmodium mexicanum\" a lizard parasite. Further work in this area seems indicated.\n\nUnlike other eukaryotes studied to date \"Plasmodium\" species have two or three distinct SSU rRNA (18S rRNA) molecules encoded within the genome. These have been divided into types A, S and O. Type A is expressed in the asexual stages; type S in the sexual and type O only in the oocyte. Type O is only known to occur in \"Plasmodium vivax\" at present. The reason for this gene duplication is not known but presumably reflects an adaption to the different environments the parasite lives within.\n\nIt has been reported that the C terminal domain of the RNA polymerase 2 in the primate infecting species (other than \"P. falciparum\" and probably \"P. reichenowei\") appears to be unusual suggesting that the classification of species into the subgenus \"Plasmodium\" may have an evolutionary and biological basis.\n\nIt is known from many written historical sources that \"P. vivax\" malaria was endemic in the wetlands of England from the 1500s until the 20th century. It is suspected that this disease was introduced by the Romans sometime before 400 AD. It seems likely that it remained endemic in these areas at least up to 1000 AD.\n\nA study in Senegal of 25 strains isolated there suggests that \"P. falciparum\" underwent a major (60-fold) population expansion of ~20,000-40,000 years ago.\n\nA population study based on isolates from several countries suggests that distinct clustering of continental populations - Africa, Southeast Asia and Oceania - has occurred. Within these grouping there has been some further clustering - West Africa versus East Africa, Thailand versus Cambodia. No distinction was identified between isolates from Mali and Burkina Faso.\n\nBecause of the number of species parasited by \"Plasmodium\" further discussion has been broken down into following pages:\n\n\nThe vertebrate host is the first criterion used for speciation and may be sufficient alone to determine the subgenus as in \"Ophidiella\" and \"Vinckeia\".\nThe morphological features of the parasite itself most commonly used to describe a species include the number of pigment granules, the degree of encirclement of the host nucleus, the size of the parasite, the degree of host nucleus displacement and the degree of host cell enlargement.\n\n\"Plasmodium accipiteris\"\n\"Plasmodium achiotense\"\n\"Plasmodium achromaticum\"\n\"Plasmodium acuminatum\n\"Plasmodium adleri\"\n\"Plasmodium aegyptensis\"\n\"Plasmodium aeuminatum\"\n\"Plasmodium agamae\"\n\"Plasmodium alaudae\"\n\"Plasmodium alloelongatum\n\"Plasmodium anasum\"\n\"Plasmodium anomaluri\"\n\"Plasmodium arachniformis\"\n\"Plasmodium ashfordi\"\n\"Plasmodium atheruri\"\n\"Plasmodium audaciosum\"\n\"Plasmodium auffenbergi\"\n\"Plasmodium aurulentum\"\n\"Plasmodium australis\"\n\"Plasmodium attenuatum\n\"Plasmodium azurophilum\"\n\"Plasmodium billbrayi\"\n\"Plasmodium billcollinsi\"\n\"Plasmodium balli\"\n\"Plasmodium bambusicolai\"\n\"Plasmodium basilisci\n\"Plasmodium beaucournui\" \n\"Plasmodium beebei\"\n\"Plasmodium beltrani\"\n\"Plasmodium berghei\"\n\"Plasmodium bertii\"\n\"Plasmodium bigueti\n\"Plasmodium bioccai\"\n\"Plasmodium biziurae\n\"Plasmodium blacklocki\"\n\"Plasmodium booliati\"\n\"Plasmodium bouillize\"\n\"Plasmodium brodeni\"\n\"Plasmodium brasilianum\"\n\"Plasmodium brumpti\"\n\"Plasmodium brygooi\"\n\"Plasmodium bubalis\"\n\"Plasmodium bucki\"\n\"Plasmodium buteonis\"\n\"Plasmodium caloti\"\n\"Plasmodium capistrani\"\n\"Plasmodium carmelinoi\"\n\"Plasmodium cathemerium\"\n\"Plasmodium caucasica\"\n\"Plasmodium cephalophi\n\"Plasmodium cercopitheci\n\"Plasmodium chabaudi\"\n\"Plasmodium chiricahuae\"\n\"Plasmodium circularis\"\n\"Plasmodium circumflexum\"\n\"Plasmodium clelandi\"\n\"Plasmodium cnemaspi\"\n\"Plasmodium cnemidophori\"\n\"Plasmodium coatneyi\"\n\"Plasmodium coggeshalli\"\n\"Plasmodium coluzzii\"\n\"Plasmodium colombiense\"\n\"Plasmodium columbae\"\n\"Plasmodium cordyli\"\n\"Plasmodium corradettii\n\"Plasmodium coturnixi\n\"Plasmodium coulangesi\"\n\"Plasmodium cuculus\"\n\"Plasmodium cyclopsi\"\n\"Plasmodium cynomolgi bastianelli\"\n\"Plasmodium cynomolgi ceylonensis\"\n\"Plasmodium cynomolgi cynomolgi\"\n\"Plasmodium delichoni\"\n\"Plasmodium dherteae\"\n\"Plasmodium diminutivum\n\"Plasmodium diploglossi\"\n\"Plasmodium dissanaikei\"\n\"Plasmodium dominicana\"\n\"Plasmodium dorsti\"\n\"Plasmodium draconis\"\n\"Plasmodium durae\"\n\"Plasmodium egerniae\"\n\"Plasmodium elongatum\"\n\"Plasmodium eylesi\"\n\"Plasmodium fairchildi\"\n\"Plasmodium falciparum\"\n\"Plasmodium fallax\"\n\"Plasmodium fieldi\"\n\"Plasmodium fischeri\"\n\"Plasmodium foleyi\"\n\"Plasmodium formosanum\"\n\"Plasmodium forresteri\"\n\"Plasmodium floridense\"\n\"Plasmodium fragile\"\n\"Plasmodium gaboni\"\n\"Plasmodium gabaldoni\"\n\"Plasmodium garnhami\"\n\"Plasmodium gallinaceum\"\n\"Plasmodium gemini\"\n\"Plasmodium georgesi\"\n\"Plasmodium ghadiriani\"\n\"Plasmodium giganteum\"\n\"Plasmodium giovannolai\n\"Plasmodium ginsburgi\"\n\"Plasmodium girardi\"\n\"Plasmodium globularis\"\n\"Plasmodium gloriai\"\n\"Plasmodium gologoense\"\n\"Plasmodium golvani\"\n\"Plasmodium gonatodi\"\n\"Plasmodium gonderi\"\n\"Plasmodium gracilis\"\n\"Plasmodium griffithsi\"\n\"Plasmodium guangdong\"\n\"Plasmodium gundersi\"\n\"Plasmodium guyannense\n\"Plasmodium heischi\"\n\"Plasmodium hegneri\"\n\"Plasmodium hermani\"\n\"Plasmodium heroni\"\n\"Plasmodium heteronucleare\"\n\"Plasmodium hexamerium\"\n\"Plasmodium hispaniolae\" \n\"Plasmodium hoionucleophilum\"\n\"Plasmodium holaspi\"\n\"Plasmodium holti\"\n\"Plasmodium homocircumflexum\"\n\"Plasmodium homopolare\"\n\"Plasmodium huffi\"\n\"Plasmodium hydrochaeri\"\n\"Plasmodium hylobati\"\n\"Plasmodium incertae\"\n\"Plasmodium icipeensis\"\n\"Plasmodium iguanae\"\n\"Plasmodium inopinatum\"\n\"Plasmodium intabazwe\"\n\"Plasmodium inui\"\n\"Plasmodium japonicum\"\n\"Plasmodium jeanriouxi\"\n\"Plasmodium jefferyi\"\n\"Plasmodium jiangi\"\n\"Plasmodium josephinae\"\n\"Plasmodium joyeuxi\"\n\"Plasmodium juxtanucleare\"\n\"Plasmodium kachelibaensis\"\n\"Plasmodium kadogoi\"\n\"Plasmodium kaninii\"\n\"Plasmodium kempi\"\n\"Plasmodium kentropyxi\"\n\"Plasmodium knowlesi knowlesi\"\n\"Plasmodium knowlesi edesoni\"\n\"Plasmodium koreafense\"\n\"Plasmodium kyaii\"\n\"Plasmodium lacertiliae\"\n\"Plasmodium lagopi\"\n\"Plasmodium lainsoni\"\n\"Plasmodium landauae\"\n\"Plasmodium lemuris\"\n\"Plasmodium lenoblei\"\n\"Plasmodium lepidoptiformis\"\n\"Plasmodium lionatum\"\n\"Plasmodium lomamiensis\"\n\"Plasmodium lophurae\"\n\"Plasmodium loveridgei\"\n\"Plasmodium lucens\"\n\"Plasmodium lutzi\"\n\"Plasmodium lygosomae\"\n\"Plasmodium mabuiae\"\n\"Plasmodium mackerrasae\"\n\"Plasmodium mackiei\"\n\"Plasmodium maculilabre\"\n\"Plasmodium maior\"\n\"Plasmodium majus\"\n\"Plasmodium malagasi\"\n\"Plasmodium malariae\"\n\"Plasmodium multivacuolaris\"\n\"Plasmodium marginatum\n\"Plasmodium matutinum\n\"Plasmodium megaglobularis\"\n\"Plasmodium megalotrypa\"\n\"Plasmodium melanoleuca\"\n\"Plasmodium melanipherum\n\"Plasmodium merulae\"\n\"Plasmodium mexicanum\"\n\"Plasmodium michikoa\"\n\"Plasmodium minasense\"\n\"Plasmodium minuoviride\n\"Plasmodium modestum\"\n\"Plasmodium mohammedi\"\n\"Plasmodium morulum\"\n\"Plasmodium multiformis\"\n\"Plasmodium narayani\"\n\"Plasmodium necatrix\"\n\"Plasmodium neusticuri\"\n\"Plasmodium nucleophilium\"\n\"Plasmodium octamerium\"\n\"Plasmodium odhiamboi\"\n\"Plasmodium odocoilei\"\n\"Plasmodium ovale curtisi\"\n\"Plasmodium ovale wallikeri\"\n\"Plasmodium pachysomum\"\n\"Plasmodium paddae\"\n\"Plasmodium papernai\"\n\"Plasmodium parahexamerium\"\n\"Plasmodium paranucleophilum\"\n\"Plasmodium parvulum\"\n\"Plasmodium pedioecetii\"\n\"Plasmodium pelaezi\"\n\"Plasmodium percygarnhami\"\n\"Plasmodium pessoai\"\n\"Plasmodium petersi\n\"Plasmodium pifanoi\"\n\"Plasmodium pinotti\"\n\"Plasmodium pitheci\"\n\"Plasmodium pitmani\"\n\"Plasmodium polare\"\n\"Plasmodium polymorphum\"\n\"Plasmodium praefalciparum\"\n\"Plasmodium pulmophilium\n\"Plasmodium pythonias\"\n\"Plasmodium quelea\"\n\"Plasmodium reichenowi\n\"Plasmodium relictum\"\n\"Plasmodium reniai\"\n\"Plasmodium rhadinurum\"\n\"Plasmodium rhacodactyli\"\n\"Plasmodium rhodaini\"\n\"Plasmodium robinsoni\"\n\"Plasmodium rousetti\"\n\"Plasmodium rousseloti\"\n\"Plasmodium rouxi\"\n\"Plasmodium sandoshami\"\n\"Plasmodium sapaaensis\"\n\"Plasmodium sasai\"\n\"Plasmodium saurocaudatum\"\n\"Plasmodium schwetzi\"\n\"Plasmodium sergentorum\"\n\"Plasmodium scelopori\"\n\"Plasmodium scorzai\"\n\"Plasmodium semiovale\"\n\"Plasmodium semnopitheci\"\n\"Plasmodium silvaticum\"\n\"Plasmodium simium\"\n\"Plasmodium simplex\"\n\"Plasmodium smirnovi\"\n\"Plasmodium snounoui\"\n\"Plasmodium stellatum\"\n\"Plasmodium stuthionis\"\n\"Plasmodium tanzaniae\"\n\"Plasmodium tenue\"\n\"Plasmodium tejerai\"\n\"Plasmodium telfordi\"\n\"Plasmodium tomodoni\"\n\"Plasmodium torrealbai\"\n\"Plasmodium toucani\"\n\"Plasmodium traguli\"\n\"Plasmodium tranieri\"\n\"Plasmodium tribolonti\"\n\"Plasmodium tropiduri\"\n\"Plasmodium tumbayaensis\"\n\"Plasmodium tyrio\"\n\"Plasmodium uilenbergi\"\n\"Plasmodium uluguruense\"\n\"Plasmodium uncinatum\"\n\"Plasmodium unalis\"\n\"Plasmodium uzungwiense\"\n\"Plasmodium watteni\"\n\"Plasmodium wenyoni\"\n\"Plasmodium vacuolatum\"\n\"Plasmodium valkiunasi\"\n\"Plasmodium vastator\"\n\"Plasmodium vaughani\"\n\"Plasmodium vautieri\"\n\"Plasmodium venkataramiahii\"\n\"Plasmodium vinckei\"\n\"Plasmodium vivax\"\n\"Plasmodium vivax-like\"\n\"Plasmodium volans\"\n\"Plasmodium voltaicum\"\n\"Plasmodium wenyoni\"\n\"Plasmodium yoelii\"\n\"Plasmodium youngi\"\n\"Plasmodium zonuriae\"\nAt least one species has been isolated from the mandrill (\"Mandrillus leucophaeus\") that awaits full publication. It is currently known as \"Plasmodium\" sp. DAJ-2004.\n\nAt least one species related to \"P. ovale\" appears to be present in chimpanzees. It is known only from a DNA sequence and awaits description.\n\n\"P. vivax\" strains can be separated into two distinct types depending on the organisation of the A and S rRNA genes. A gene conversion occurred in an Old World strain and this mutated strain give rise to a new calde of parasites in the New World. The Old World strains were subsequently re introduced - possibly via the slave trade - and these are related to the monkey parasite \"P. simium\". The specific name \"Plasmodium collinsi\" has been proposed for the New World strains but this has not yet been accepted.\n\nA second mutation is present in the ORF 470 gene of the plasmid in the New World \"P. vivax\" strains. This protein is highly conserved. In the Old World strains of \"P. vivax\" and its relations a valine is present. In the New World strains this residue has been replaced by an isoleucine (G -> A in the first codon position).\n\nTwo separate strains of \"P. vivax\" can be identified on the basis of the circumsporozoite protein (CSP) gene. Both of these alleles can be found in \"P. simium\" and they occur both in the New and Old Worlds. This suggests a complex history of transmission across the world and between species.\n\nAnother as yet unnamed species was isolated from humans in Madang, Papua New Guinea in 1993. This species differed immunologically and genetically from then generally recognised species infecting humans. Additional isolates of this putative species were also found in Sepik also in Papua New Guinea, Brazil, Indonesia and Madagascar. The circumsporozoite protein of this species appears to be identical to that of \"Plasmodium semiovale\". At least two species of mosquito \"Anopheles deaneorum\" and \"Anopheles oswaldoi\" appear to be capable of transmitting this parasite. These reports have not gone unchallenged and the status of this putative species is unclear at present. This unnamed species has been named \"Plasmodium vivax-like\" and its genome has been sequenced. It is the closest relative of \"P. vivax\".\n\nThis listing while currently incomplete will be updated when the relevant information becomes available.\nThe literature is replete with species initially classified as \"Plasmodium\" that have been subsequently reclassified. With the increasing use of DNA taxonomy some of these may be once again be classified as \"Plasmodium\". This appears increasing likely as it has been shown that \"Hepatocystis\" and \"Polychromophilus\" appear to lie within the genus \"Plasmodium\".\n\nThe following species have been classified into the genus \"Hepatocystis\":\n\n\nThe following species have been classified into the genus \"Haemoemba\":\n\n\nThe following species has been classified into the genus \"Garnia\":\n\n\nThe following species have been classified into the genus \"Fallisia\":\n\n\nThe following species has been classified into the genus \"Polychromophilus\":\n\n\n\"P. osmaniae\" and \"P. shortii\" are currently considered to be junior synonyms of \"P. inui\".\n\n\"P. biziurae\" and \"P. inconstans\" are now regarded as a junior synonym of \"P. relictum\".\n\nThe following species that have been described in the literature are currently regarded as being of questionable validity (\"nomen dubium\").\n\nReview: \n"}
{"id": "17068413", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17068413", "title": "List of countries by electricity production from renewable sources", "text": "List of countries by electricity production from renewable sources\n\nThis article is a list of countries by electricity generation from renewable sources every year. Note that most countries import and/or export electricity, so the percentage figures do not reflect the percentage of consumption that is renewable based.\n\nBased on REN21's 2016 report, renewables contributed 19.2% to humans' global energy consumption and 23.7% to their generation of electricity in 2014 and 2015, respectively. This energy consumption is divided as 8.9% coming from traditional biomass, 4.2% as heat energy (modern biomass, geothermal and solar heat), 3.9% hydro electricity and 2.2% is electricity from wind, solar, geothermal, and biomass. Worldwide investments in renewable technologies amounted to more than US$286 billion in 2015, with countries like China and the United States heavily investing in wind, hydro, solar and biofuels. Globally, there are an estimated 7.7 million jobs associated with the renewable energy industries, with solar photovoltaics being the largest renewable employer. worldwide, more than half of all new electricity capacity installed was renewable.\n\nThis list is based on US Energy Information Administration (EIA) statistics where not otherwise specified.\n"}
{"id": "32350997", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32350997", "title": "List of fern families", "text": "List of fern families\n\nBelow is a list of fern (Pteridophyta) families, and the genera which are placed in them, using the classification scheme proposed by Smith \"et al.\" (2006), placed in the linear order of Christenhusz \"et al.\" (2011). Note that Smith \"et al.\" (2006) used the more traditional classes as listed below, while Christenhusz \"et al.\" (2011) used the corresponding subclasses (shown in square brackets) proposed by Chase and Reveal in 2009. In their proposal, all land plants (embryophytes) are placed in a single class, Equisetopsida, and the ferns (monilophytes) are assigned five of the 14 Equisetopsida subclasses. However, Christenhusz \"et al.\" merged the Psilotidae into the Ophioglossidae subclass, leaving four fern subclasses, corresponding to the four classes of Smith \"et al.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "13875357", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13875357", "title": "List of forest parks of Thailand", "text": "List of forest parks of Thailand\n\nForest parks () in Thailand are protected areas set aside for conservation and protection from development owing to their natural scenic value that are too small to be declared national parks. The forest parks are governed by the provincial administrations. Thailand's forest parks fall under IUCN Category V, (Protected Landscape/Seascape). There are a total of 69 Forest Parks in Thailand, covering a combined land surface of 880 km², which is about a 0.17% of the total area of the country.\n\nSince the first protected area was established in Thailand, their capacity to achieve their purpose has been under multiple challenges. As other protected areas such as National Parks and Wildlife Reserves, forest parks are not free from severe threats such as land encroachment, illegal logging and poaching. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "49283190", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49283190", "title": "List of invasive plant species in Maryland", "text": "List of invasive plant species in Maryland\n\nNumerous non-native plants have been introduced to Maryland in the United States and many of them have become invasive species. The following is a list of some non-native invasive plant species established in Maryland.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "32845566", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32845566", "title": "List of rivers of Namibia", "text": "List of rivers of Namibia\n\nThis is a list of streams and rivers in Namibia, arranged geographically by drainage basin. There is an alphabetical list at the end.\n\n\n\nEkuma River\n\nFish River\n\nHoanib River\n\nKhan River - Kunene River - Kuiseb River - Kwando River\n\nNossob River\n"}
{"id": "8983743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8983743", "title": "Magnetic cloud", "text": "Magnetic cloud\n\nA magnetic cloud is a transient event observed in the solar wind. It was defined in 1981 by Burlaga et al. 1981 as a region of enhanced magnetic field strength, smooth rotation of the magnetic field vector, and low proton temperature. Magnetic clouds are a possible manifestation of a coronal mass ejection (CME). The association between CMEs and magnetic clouds was made by Burlaga et al. in 1982 when a magnetic cloud was observed by Helios-1 two days after being observed by SMM. However, because observations near Earth are usually done by a single spacecraft, many CMEs are not seen as being associated with magnetic clouds. The typical structure observed for a fast CME by a satellite such as ACE is a fast-mode shock wave followed by a dense (and hot) sheath of plasma (the downstream region of the shock) and a magnetic cloud.\n\nOther signatures of magnetic clouds are now used in addition to the one described above: among other, bidirectional superthermal electrons, unusual charge state or abundance of iron, helium, carbon, and/or oxygen.\n\nThe typical time for a magnetic cloud to move past a satellite at the L1 point is 1 day corresponding to a radius of 0.15 AU with a typical speed of and magnetic field strength of 20 nT.\n\nMagnetic clouds represent about one third of ejecta observed by satellites at Earth. Other types of ejecta are multiple-magnetic cloud events (a single structure with multiple subclouds distinguishable) and complex ejecta, which can be the result of the interaction of multiple CMEs.\n\n"}
{"id": "23971781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23971781", "title": "Magnetic energy", "text": "Magnetic energy\n\nMagnetic energy and electric energy are related by Maxwell's equations. The potential energy of a magnet of magnetic moment formula_1 in a magnetic field formula_2 is defined as the mechanical work of the magnetic force (actually magnetic torque) on the re-alignment of the vector of the Magnetic dipole moment and is equal to:\nwhile the energy stored in an inductor (of inductance formula_4) when a current formula_5 flows through it is given by:\nThis second expression forms the basis for superconducting magnetic energy storage.\n\nEnergy is also stored in a magnetic field. The energy per unit volume in a region of space of permeability formula_7containing magnetic field formula_2 is:\n\nMore generally, if we assume that the medium is paramagnetic or diamagnetic so that a linear constitutive equation exists that relates formula_2 and formula_11, then it can be shown that the magnetic field stores an energy of\n\nwhere the integral is evaluated over the entire region where the magnetic field exists.\n\n"}
{"id": "624313", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624313", "title": "Mating system", "text": "Mating system\n\nA mating system is a way in which a group is structured in relation to sexual behaviour. The precise meaning depends upon the context. With respect to animals, the term describes which males and females mate, under which circumstances; recognised systems include monogamy, polygamy (which includes polygyny, polyandry, and polygynandry), and promiscuity, all of which lead to different mate choice outcomes and thus these systems affect how sexual selection works in the species which practice them. In plants, the term refers to the degree and circumstances of outcrossing. In human sociobiology, the terms have been extended to encompass the formation of relationships such as marriage.\n\nThe primary mating systems in plants are outcrossing (cross-fertilisation), autogamy (self-fertilisation) and apomixis (asexual reproduction without fertilization, but only when arising by modification of sexual function). Mixed mating systems, in which plants use two or even all three mating systems, are not uncommon.\n\nA number of models have been used to describe the parameters of plant mating systems. The basic model is the mixed mating model, which is based on the assumption that every fertilisation is either self-fertilisation or completely random cross-fertilisation. More complex models relax this assumption; for example, the effective selfing model recognises that mating may be more common between pairs of closely related plants than between pairs of distantly related plants.\n\nThe following are some of the mating systems generally recognized in animals:\n\nThese mating relationships may or may not be associated with social relationships, in which the sexual partners stay together to become parenting partners. As the alternative term \"pair bonding\" implies, this is usual in monogamy. In many polyandrous systems, the males and the female stay together to rear the young. In polygynous systems where the number of females paired with each male is low and the male will often stay with one female to help rear the young, while the other females rear their young on their own. In polygynandry, each of the males may assist one female; if all adults help rear all the young, the system is more usually called \"communal breeding\". In highly polygynous systems, and in promiscuous systems, paternal care of young is rare, or there may be no parental care at all.\n\nThese descriptions are idealized, and the social partnerships are often easier to observe than the mating relationships. In particular:\n\nSexual Conflict occurs between individuals of different sexes that have separate or conflicting requirements for optimal mating success. This conflict may lead to competitive adaptations and co-adaptations of one or both of the sexes to maintain mating processes that are beneficial to that sex. Intralocus sexual conflict and interlocus sexual conflict describe the genetic influence behind sexual conflict, and are presently recognized as the most basic forms of sexual conflict.\n\nCompared to other vertebrates, where a species usually has a single mating system, human display great variety. Humans also differ by having formal marriages which in some cultures involve negotiation and arrangement between elder relatives. Regarding sexual dimorphism (see the section about animals above), humans are in the intermediate group with moderate sex differences in body size but with relatively large testes. This indicates relatively frequent sperm competition which is supported by reports of extrapair paternity of 2–22% in socially monogamous and polygynous human societies. One estimate is that 83% of human societies are polygynous, 0.05% are polyandrous, and the rest are monogamous. Even the last group may at least in part be genetically polygynous.\n\nFrom an evolutionary standpoint, females are more prone to practice monogamy because their reproductive success is based on the resources she is able to acquire through reproduction rather than the quantity of offspring she produces. However, men are more likely to practice polygamy because his reproductive success is based on the amount of offsprings he produces, rather than any kind of benefit from parental investment.\n\nPolygyny is associated with an increased sharing of subsistence provided by women. This is consistent with the theory that if women raise the children alone, men can concentrate on the mating effort. Polygyny is also associated with greater environmental variability in the form of variability of rainfall. This may increase the differences in the resources available to men. An important association is that polygyny is associated with a higher pathogen load in an area which may make having good genes in a male increasingly important. A high pathogen load also decreases the relative importance of sororal polygyny which may be because it becomes increasingly important to have genetic variability in the offspring (See Major histocompatibility complex and sexual selection).\n\nVirtually all the terms used to describe animal mating systems were adopted from social anthropology, where they had been devised to describe systems of marriage. This shows that human sexual behavior is unusually flexible since, in most animal species, one mating system dominates. While there are close analogies between animal mating systems and human marriage institutions, these analogies should not be pressed too far, because in human societies, marriages typically have to be recognized by the entire social group in some way, and there is no equivalent process in animal societies. The temptation to draw conclusions about what is \"natural\" for human sexual behavior from observations of animal mating systems should be resisted: a socio-biologist observing the kinds of behavior shown by humans in any other species would conclude that all known mating systems were natural for that species, depending on the circumstances or on individual differences.\n\nAs culture increasingly affects human mating choices, ascertaining what is the 'natural' mating system of the human animal from a zoological perspective becomes increasingly difficult. Some clues can be taken from human anatomy, which is essentially unchanged from the prehistoric past:\n\n\nSome have suggested that these anatomical factors signify some degree of sperm competition, though as levels of genetic and societal promiscuity are highly varied across cultures, this evidence is far from conclusive.\n\nMating in bacteria involves transfer of DNA from one cell to another and incorporation of the transferred DNA into the recipient bacteria’s genome by homologous recombination. Transfer of DNA between bacterial cells can occur in three main ways. First, a bacterium can take up exogenous DNA released into the intervening medium from another bacterium by a process called transformation. DNA can also be transferred from one bacterium to another by the process of transduction, which is mediated by an infecting virus (bacteriophage). The third method of DNA transfer is \"conjugation\", in which a plasmid mediates transfer through direct cell contact between cells.\n\nTransformation, unlike transduction or conjugation, depends on numerous bacterial gene products that specifically interact to perform this complex process, and thus transformation is clearly a bacterial adaptation for DNA transfer. In order for a bacterium to bind, take up and recombine donor DNA into its own chromosome, it must first enter a special physiological state termed natural competence. In \"Bacillus subtilis\" about 40 genes are required for the development of competence and DNA uptake. The length of DNA transferred during \"B. subtilis\" transformation can be as much as a third and up to the whole chromosome. Transformation appears to be common among bacterial species, and at least 60 species are known to have the natural ability to become competent for transformation. The development of competence in nature is usually associated with stressful environmental conditions, and seems to be an adaptation for facilitating repair of DNA damage in recipient cells.\n\nIn several species of archaea, mating is mediated by formation of cellular aggregates.\n\"Halobacterium volcanii\", an extreme halophilic archaeon, forms cytoplasmic bridges between cells that appear to be used for transfer of DNA from one cell to another in either direction.\n\nWhen the hyperthermophilic archaea \"Sulfolobus solfataricus\" and \"Sulfolobus acidocaldarius\" are exposed to the DNA damaging agents UV irradiation, bleomycin or mitomycin C, species-specific cellular aggregation is induced. Aggregation in \"S. solfataricus\" could not be induced by other physical stressors, such as pH or temperature shift, suggesting that aggregation is induced specifically by DNA damage. Ajon et al. showed that UV-induced cellular aggregation mediates chromosomal marker exchange with high frequency in \"S. acidocaldarius\". Recombination rates exceeded those of uninduced cultures by up to three orders of magnitude. Frols et al. and Ajon et al. hypothesized that cellular aggregation enhances species-specific DNA transfer between \"Sulfolobus\" cells in order to provide increased repair of damaged DNA by means of homologous recombination. This response appears to be a primitive form of sexual interaction similar to the more well-studied bacterial transformation systems that are also associated with species specific DNA transfer between cells leading to homologous recombinational repair of DNA damage.\n\nProtists are a large group of diverse eukaryotic microorganisms, mainly unicellular animals and plants, that do not form tissues. Eukaryotes emerged in evolution more than 1.5 billion years ago. The earliest eukaryotes were likely protists. Mating and sexual reproduction are widespread among extant eukaryotes. Based on a phylogenetic analysis, Dacks and Roger proposed that facultative sex was present in the common ancestor of all eukaryotes.\n\nHowever, to many biologists it seemed unlikely until recently, that mating and sex could be a primordial and fundamental characteristic of eukaryotes. A principal reason for this view was that mating and sex appeared to be lacking in certain pathogenic protists whose ancestors branched off early from the eukaryotic family tree. However, several of these protists are now known to be capable of, or to recently have had, the capability for meiosis and hence mating. To cite one example, the common intestinal parasite \"Giardia intestinalis\" was once considered to be a descendant of a protist lineage that predated the emergence of meiosis and sex. However, \"G. intestinalis\" was recently found to have a core set of genes that function in meiosis and that are widely present among sexual eukaryotes. These results suggested that \"G. intestinalis\" is capable of meiosis and thus mating and sexual reproduction. Furthermore, direct evidence for meiotic recombination, indicative of mating and sexual reproduction, was also found in \"G. intestinalis\". Other protists for which evidence of mating and sexual reproduction has recently been described are parasitic protozoa of the genus \"Leishmania\", \"Trichomonas vaginalis\", and acanthamoeba.\n\nProtists generally reproduce asexually under favorable environmental conditions, but tend to reproduce sexually under stressful conditions, such as starvation or heat shock.\n\nBoth animal viruses and bacterial viruses (bacteriophage) are able to undergo mating. When a cell is mixedly infected by two genetically marked viruses, recombinant virus progeny are often observed indicating that mating interaction had occurred at the DNA level. Another manifestation of mating between viral genomes is multiplicity reactivation (MR). MR is the process by which at least two virus genomes, each containing inactivating genome damage, interact with each other in an infected cell to form viable progeny viruses. The genes required for MR in bacteriophage T4 are largely the same as the genes required for allelic recombination. Examples of MR in animal viruses are described in the articles \"Herpes simplex virus\", \"Influenza A virus\", \"Adenoviridae\", \"Simian virus 40\", \"Vaccinia virus\", and \"Reoviridae\".\n\n"}
{"id": "41155456", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41155456", "title": "Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation (Nepal)", "text": "Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation (Nepal)\n\nThe Ministry of Energy, Water Resources and Irrigation is a governmental body of Nepal that governs the development and implementation of energy including its conservation, regulation and utilization. It furthermore develops operates electricity projects including hydropower projects. Due to the importance of water resources in Nepal, the ministry focuses on the development and utilization of hydropower. In 2018, under the second Oli cabinet, the portfolio of the ministry was enlarged and the portfolios of \"Water Resources and Irrigation\" was added to the then \"Ministry of Energy\", while the Ministry of Irrigation was discontinued.\n\nThe Department of Electricity Development serves under the ministry to facilitate and implement its work, mainly to develop and promote the electricity sector of Nepal including enhancing its financial attractiveness.\nFurthermore, two organisations also work under and with the ministry:\n\nThis is a list of former Ministers of Energy since the Nepalese Constituent Assembly election in 2013:\n"}
{"id": "51487718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51487718", "title": "Mishaguji", "text": "Mishaguji\n\n, also known as Mishaguchi or Mishakuji among other variants (see below), is a collective term for \"kami\" worshipped mainly in Nagano Prefecture (historical Shinano Province) since ancient times, with possible traces of their worship found elsewhere in east and central Japan.\n\nBelieved to be spirits that inhabit natural objects like trees or rocks that could also be called upon to possess humans or objects during religious rituals, Mishaguji are also thought to be god(s) of boundaries and protector(s) of communities. Worship of the Mishaguji occupied a central place in the religious beliefs of the Suwa region in Nagano prior to the arrival of the Yamato state in the area. Even after the local belief system was reorganized under the Yamato polity, Mishaguji worship was continued by a priest of the Moriya clan, the original politico-religious heads of Suwa.\n\nWhile the deity worshipped in the Grand Shrine of Suwa - most often called Suwa Myōjin (諏訪明神) - is nowadays usually identified with Takeminakata, portrayed in the \"Kojiki\" as a son of Ōkuninushi, the god of Izumo who initially resisted the transfer of sovereignty over the land of Japan from his father to Amaterasu, the peculiar character of many of the religious rites of Suwa Shrine - specifically, that of the Upper Shrine (上社 \"Kamisha\") - seem to point to the cult of Suwa Myōjin as originally being a derivative of indigenous Mishaguji worship under Yamato rule. Takeminakata and/or his myth has been theorized by a number of modern scholars to be possibly based on this adaptation of local beliefs.\n\nA plethora of variant names and \"ateji\" are attested for Mishaguji, including , , , , , and among others.\n\nThe name has been variously interpreted as deriving from \"shakujin\"/\"ishigami\" (石神 'stone god'), due to Mishaguji's association with stones and rocks, or \"shakujin\" (尺神), due to another association with bamboo poles and measuring ropes used in land surveying and boundary marking. (1990), considering the above explanations unsatisfactory, instead opines the name to be ultimately derived from \"(mi)sakuchi\" (honorific prefix 御 \"mi-\" + 作霊, 咲霊 \"sakuchi\"), a spirit (\"chi\"; cf. \"ikazu-chi\", \"oro-chi\") that brings forth or opens up (\"saku\", cf. 咲く 'to bloom', 裂く 'to tear open', 作 'to do/make/cultivate/grow'；cf. also the verb \"sakuru\"/\"shakuru\" 'to dig/scoop up') the latent life force present in the soil or the female womb.\n\nWorship of Mishaguji is thought to have originated in the area surrounding Lake Suwa from beliefs centering around the Earth Mother during the Jōmon period. There are a total of 675 Mishaguji shrines within Nagano Prefecture, 109 of which are in the Suwa region, the heartland of the Mishaguji cult.\n\nIn addition, traces of Mishaguji worship are found throughout the Kantō and Chūbu regions of Japan: shrines to the god(s) exist in areas such as Shizuoka (233 shrines), Aichi (229 shrines), Yamanashi (160 shrines), Mie (140 shrines) and Gifu (116 shrines). On the other hand, Mishaguji shrines are conspicuously absent in the two prefectures of Niigata and Toyama, located to the north of Nagano.\n\nMishaguji are believed to be spirits that dwell in rocks, trees, or bamboo leaves, as well as various man-made objects such as phallic stone rods ( \"sekibō\"), grinding slabs (石皿 \"ishizara\") or mortars (石臼 \"ishiusu\"). In addition to the above, Mishaguji are also thought to descend upon straw effigies as well as possess human beings, especially during religious rituals.\n\nThis concept of Mishaguji as a possessing spirit are reflected in texts that describe Mishaguji being 'brought down' (降申 \"oroshi-mōsu\", i.e. being summoned into a repository, whether human or object) or 'lifted up' (上申 \"age-mōsu\", i.e. being dismissed from its vessel) by the Moriya \"jinchōkan\", the priest with the exclusive right to call upon Mishaguji in the religious rites of the Suwa Grand Shrine.\n\nFolk beliefs considered Mishaguji to be associated with fertility and the harvest, as well as healers of diseases like the common cold or pertussis. Mishaguji have been worshipped as tutelary deities of whole villages (産土神 \"ubusuna-gami\") as well as specific kinship groups (祝神 \"iwai-gami\"). Further reflecting this relationship between Mishaguji and local communities is their being believed to preside over the act of founding villages as well as their being associated with the broadly similar concept of \"saikami\" (patrons of boundaries or borders).\n\nWithin the Suwa region, syncretism with other myths has resulted in the representation of Mishaguji as snakes, as well as their connection with the story of Takeminakata-no-kami and Moreya-no-kami; Moreya-no-kami is said to represent the autochthonous worship of Mishaguji that syncretized with the worship of new gods represented by Takeminakata-no-kami.\n\n, sacred hunts of deer culminating in the sacrifice of the animal's head to the Mishaguji, were formerly carried out at shrines such as Misayama Shrine in Suwa. In the modern era, these hunts have generally been replaced by a ceremony incorporating an artificial stuffed deer head.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4760263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4760263", "title": "Museum of Natural History, Lima", "text": "Museum of Natural History, Lima\n\nThe Natural History Museum (Museo de Historia Natural) in Lima, is Peru's most important museum of natural history. It was established in 1918 and belongs to the National University of San Marcos.\n\nThe present director is Dr. Betty Millán.\n\nThe museum was founded in 1918 by the Faculty of Sciences of the Universidad Nacional Mayor de San Marcos. The first director and founder of the museum was Carlos Rospigliosi.\n\nThe initial personal of the museum consisted in one curator in chief, and three curators for the areas of Zoology, Botany and Mineralogy.\n\nThe first scientific expedition was organized by Rospigliosi in April 1918, that collected specimens of fauna, flora and minerals from the departments of Junín and Huánuco. The second expedition was organized by the Geographic Society of Lima in 1920 that included the participation of Swedish geologist and explorer Otto Nordenskiöld. This expedition explored the highlands and foothills of the Andes in the department of Junín.\n\nIn 1920, the rector of the National University of San Marcos, Dr. Javier Prado, interceded in order to acquire the collections of Antonio Raimondi for the recently created museum. These samples included zoological, botanical and mineralogical specimens.\n\nOriginally, the museum was located at the Faculty of Humanities and Social Sciences at the campus in \"Parque Universitario\". In 1934, it moved to its current location on \"Av. Arenales\" 1256, \"Jesús María\" in Lima, Peru.\n\nThe museum is repository of representative specimens of Peruvian fauna, flora and minerals, including exhibitions of mammals, primates, invertebrates, reptiles, amphibians, birds, plants, fossils, dinosaurs, fish and minerals.\n\nHighlights of the collections include:\n\nThe first publication series was the \"Boletín del Museo de Historia Natural\" in 1937 aimed to divulge institutional activities and results of scientific research. The \"Publicaciones del Museo\" series in Zoology, Botany and Geology were published from 1948, the \"Memorias del Museo\" in 1951 and the \"Serie de Divulgación\" in 1964.\n\nSince its foundation, the direction of the museum has been responsibility of the following researchers:\n\n\nThe museum is open for visits every day.\n\nLocation\n\n"}
{"id": "1767692", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1767692", "title": "Neutron activation", "text": "Neutron activation\n\nNeutron activation is the process in which neutron radiation induces radioactivity in materials, and occurs when atomic nuclei capture free neutrons, becoming heavier and entering excited states. The excited nucleus often decays immediately by emitting gamma rays, or particles such as beta particles, alpha particles, fission products, and neutrons (in nuclear fission). Thus, the process of neutron capture, even after any intermediate decay, often results in the formation of an unstable activation product. Such radioactive nuclei can exhibit half-lives ranging from small fractions of a second to many years.\n\nNeutron activation is the only common way that a stable material can be induced into becoming intrinsically radioactive. All naturally occurring materials, including air, water, and soil, can be induced (activated) by neutron capture into some amount of radioactivity in varying degrees, as a result of production of neutron-rich radioisotopes. Some atoms require more than one neutron to become unstable, which makes them harder to activate because the probability of a double or triple capture by a nucleus is below that of single capture. Water, for example, is made up of hydrogen and oxygen. Hydrogen requires a double capture to attain instability as hydrogen-3, tritium, while natural oxygen (oxygen-16) requires three captures to become unstable oxygen-19. Thus water is relatively difficult to activate, as compared to sea salt (NaCl), in which both the sodium and chlorine ions become unstable with a single capture each. These facts were realized first-hand at the \"Operation Crossroads\" atomic test series in 1946.\n\nAn example of this kind of a nuclear reaction occurs in the production of cobalt-60 within a nuclear reactor:\n\nThe cobalt-60 then decays by the emission of a beta particle plus gamma rays into nickel-60. This reaction has a half-life of about 5.27 years; and due to the availability of cobalt-59 (100% of its natural abundance) this neutron bombarded isotope of cobalt is a valuable source of nuclear radiation (namely gamma radiation) for radiotherapy.\n\nIn other cases, and depending on the kinetic energy of the neutron, the capture of a neutron can cause nuclear fission—the splitting of the atomic nucleus into two smaller nuclei. If the fission requires an input of energy, that comes from the kinetic energy of the neutron. An example of this kind of fission in a light element can occur when the stable isotope of lithium, lithium-7, is bombarded with fast neutrons and undergoes the following nuclear reaction:\n\nIn other words, the capture of a neutron by lithium-7 causes it to split into an energetic helium nucleus (alpha particle), a hydrogen-3 (tritium) nucleus and a free neutron. The Castle Bravo accident, in which the thermonuclear bomb test at Enewetak Atoll in 1954 exploded with 2.5 times the expected yield, was caused by the unexpectedly high probability of this reaction.\n\nIn the areas around a pressurized water reactors or boiling water reactors during normal operation, a significant amount of radiation is produced due to the fast neutron activation of coolant water oxygen via a (n,p) reaction. The activated oxygen-16 nucleus emits a proton (hydrogen nucleus), and transmutes to nitrogen-16, which has a very short life (7.13 seconds) before decaying back to oxygen-16 (emitting 6.13MeV beta particles).\n\nThis activation of the coolant water requires extra biological shielding around the nuclear reactor plant. It is the high energy gamma ray in the second reaction that causes the major concern. This is why water that has recently been inside a nuclear reactor core must be shielded until this radiation subsides. One to two minutes is generally sufficient.\n\nNeutron activation is the only common way that a stable material can be induced into becoming intrinsically radioactive. Neutrons are only free in quantity in the microseconds of a nuclear weapon's explosion, in an active nuclear reactor, or in a spallation neutron source.\n\nIn an atomic weapon neutrons are only generated for from 1 to 50 microseconds, but in huge numbers. Most are absorbed by the metallic bomb casing, which is only just starting to be affected by the explosion within it. The neutron activation of the soon-to-be vaporized metal is responsible for a significant portion of the nuclear fallout in nuclear bursts high in the atmosphere. In other types of activation neutrons may irradiate soil that is dispersed in a mushroom cloud at or near the Earth's surface, resulting in fallout from activation of soil chemical elements.\n\nIn any location with high neutron fluxes, such as within the cores of nuclear reactors, neutron activation contributes to material erosion; periodically the lining materials themselves must be disposed of, as low-level radioactive waste. Some materials are more subject to neutron activation than others, so a suitably chosen low-activation material can significantly reduce this problem (see International Fusion Materials Irradiation Facility). For example, Chromium-51 will form by neutron activation in chrome steel (which contains Cr-50) that is exposed to a typical reactor neutron flux.\n\nCarbon-14, most frequently but not solely, generated by the neutron activation of atmospheric nitrogen-14 with thermal neutron, is (together with its dominant natural production pathway from cosmic ray-air interactions and historical production from atmospheric nuclear testing) also generated in comparatively minute amounts inside many designs of nuclear reactors which contain nitrogen gas impurities in their fuel cladding, coolant water and by neutron activation of the oxygen contained in the water itself. Fast breeder reactors (FBR) produce about an order of magnitude less C-14 than the most common reactor type, the pressurized water reactor, as FBRs do not use water as a primary coolant.\n\nFor physicians and radiation safety officers, activation of sodium in the human body to sodium-24, and phosphorus to phosphorus-32, can give a good immediate estimate of acute accidental neutron exposure.\n\nOne way to demonstrate that nuclear fusion has occurred inside a fusor device is to use a Geiger counter to measure the gamma ray radioactivity that is produced from a sheet of aluminium foil.\n\nIn the ICF fusion approach, the fusion yield of the experiment (directly proportional to neutron production) is usually determined by measuring the gamma-ray emissions of aluminium or copper neutron activation targets. Aluminium can capture a neutron and generate radioactive sodium-24, which has a half life of 15 hours and a beta decay energy of 5.514 MeV.\n\nThe activation of a number of test target elements such as sulfur, copper, tantalum, and gold have been used to determine the yield of both pure fission and thermonuclear weapons.\n\nNeutron activation analysis is one of the most sensitive and accurate methods of trace element analysis. It requires no sample preparation or solubilization and can therefore be applied to objects that need to be kept intact such as a valuable piece of art. Although the activation induces radioactivity in the object, its level is typically low and its lifetime may be short, so that its effects soon disappear. In this sense, neutron activation is a non-destructive analysis method.\n\nNeutron activation analysis can be done in situ. For example, aluminium (Al-27) can be activated by capturing relatively low-energy neutrons to produce the isotope Al-28, which decays with a half-life of 2.3 minutes with a decay energy of 4.642 MeV. This activated isotope is used in oil drilling to determine the clay content (clay is generally an alumino-silicate) of the underground area under exploration.\n\nHistorians can use accidental neutron activation to authenticate atomic artifacts and materials subjected to neutron fluxes from fission incidents. For example, one of the fairly unique isotopes found in trinitite, and therefore with its absence likely signifying a fake sample of the mineral, is a barium neutron activation product, the barium in the Trinity device coming from the slow explosive lens employed in the device, known as Baratol.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21296553", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21296553", "title": "Pearce Estate Wetland", "text": "Pearce Estate Wetland\n\nThe Pearce Estate Wetland is a city park located in Calgary, Alberta. The park occupies 21 hectares (52 acres, 0.21 km) along the Bow River to the east of downtown Calgary. It is described as \"constructed wetlands filled with native plants and animals\". The land was donated to the city around 1929 by then prominent Calgarian William Pearce.\n\nThe park is located east of the Calgary Zoo and the neighborhood of Inglewood, at the eastern end of International Avenue, inside a bend of the Bow River. An interpretative trail was opened to the public in 2004.\n"}
{"id": "21801994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21801994", "title": "Sett (paving)", "text": "Sett (paving)\n\nA sett, usually referred to in the plural and known in some places as a Belgian block or sampietrino, is a broadly rectangular quarried stone used for paving roads. Formerly in widespread use, particularly on steeper streets because setts provided horses' hooves with better grip than a smooth surface, they are now encountered rather as decorative stone paving in landscape architecture. Setts are often referred to as \"cobbles\", although a sett is distinct from a cobblestone in that it is quarried or worked to a regular shape, whereas the latter is generally a small, naturally-rounded rock.\nSetts are usually made of granite.\n\nPlaces paved with setts include many streets in Rome and elsewhere in Italy (where blocks are called \"sampietrini\" or \"bolognini\"), since the technique was first used by Romans, in Aberdeen (Scotland), much of Edinburgh's Old Town and New Town, and Red Square in Moscow.\n\nSilloth on Solway, the seaside town in Cumbria, still has the setts (originally laid in the 19th century) on Eden St and the seafront Criffel Street. Streets paved with setts feature in cycling competitions including the \"Tour of Britain\" which visited Silloth on Solway in 2015.\n\nIn Bruges, Belgium, most roads are in Belgian block in the center, but in the recent years, a lot of them have been replaced by asphalt to reduce noise.\n\nIn New York City, the West Village (including the Meatpacking District) and SoHo neighborhoods retain such streets. Older sections of Brooklyn such as DUMBO and surrounding neighborhoods also have streets bearing Belgian blocks.\n\nGermantown Avenue in Philadelphia, in particular its upper reaches through Germantown, Mount Airy and Chestnut Hill, is notable for being paved with Belgian blocks; repaving projects on this thoroughfare have retained or reintroduced setts to give additional historic character to these neighborhoods. Part of this character includes the tracks of the 23 trolley, though the modern tracks are encased in concrete slabs rather than setts, and the trolley line itself is currently operated by buses.\n\nIn Richmond, Virginia Belgian block streets are particularly common, most notably in Shockoe Slip. Street cars traveled through the street on tracks that are still visible though the system has been replaced by buses.\n\nThe Fells Point neighborhood of Baltimore also has Belgian block streets.\n\nIn many cities besides Richmond and Philadelphia setts have often been used for pavement around street-running trolley or tram lines in the same manner as brickwork.\n\nPortland, Oregon, used Belgian block paving extensively in the 19th century, starting near the Willamette River, to stop the streets from washing away in floods. Many streets in older parts of the city are underlain by these blocks, and a few streets in the Pearl District still feature this kind of pavement. The City of Portland stockpiles these blocks when they are dug up for street or utility repairs or renovation. They have been used between the rails in some of TriMet's MAX light rail lines to warn automobile drivers that they are driving on light rail right of way. The romantic claim that old Portland \"cobbles\" were imported as ship's ballast is incorrect; they are local basalt, quarried near St. Helens in Oregon.\n\nStreets paved with setts (French: \"pavé\") are highlights in several cycling competitions such as the final Champs-Élysées stage of the Tour de France and the Paris–Roubaix road race. Riding upon sett is more technically challenging than riding on asphalt.\n\n"}
{"id": "50889773", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50889773", "title": "Solar-assisted heat pump", "text": "Solar-assisted heat pump\n\nA solar-assisted heat pump (SAHP) is a machine that represents the integration of a heat pump and thermal solar panels in a single integrated system. Typically these two technologies are used separately (or only placing them in parallel) to produce hot water. In this system the solar thermal panel performs the function of the low temperature heat source and the heat produced is used to feed the heat pump's evaporator. The goal of this system is to get high COP and then produce energy in a more efficient and less expensive way.\n\nIt is possible to use any type of solar thermal panel (sheet and tubes, roll-bond, heat pipe, thermal plates) or hybrid (mono/polycrystalline, thin film) in combination with the heat pump. The use of a hybrid panel is preferable because it allows covering a part of the electricity demand of the heat pump and reduce the power consumption and consequently the variable costs of the system.\n\nThe operating conditions' optimization of this system is the main problem, because there are two opposing trends of the performance of the two sub-systems: by way of example, a decreasing of the evaporation temperature of the working fluid generates an increasing of the thermal efficiency of the solar panel but a decreasing in the performance of the heat pump, with a decreasing in the COP. The target for the optimization is normally the minimization of the electrical consumption of the heat pump, or primary energy required by an auxiliary boiler which supplies the load not covered by renewable source.\n\nThere are two possible configurations of this system, which are distinguished by the presence or not of an intermediate fluid that transports the heat from the panel to the heat pump. Machines called indirect-\nexpansion mainly use water as a heat transfer fluid, mixed with an antifreeze fluid (usually glycol) to avoid ice formation phenomena during winter period. The machines called direct-expansion place the refrigerant fluid directly inside the hydraulic circuit of the thermal panel, where the phase transition takes place. This second configuration, even though it is more complex from a technical point of view, has several advantages:\n\n\nGenerally speaking the use of this integrated system is an efficient way to employ the heat produced by the thermal panels in winter period, something that normally wouldn't be exploited because its temperature is too low.\n\nIn comparison with only heat pump utilization, it is possible to reduce the amount of electrical energy consumed by the machine during the weather evolution from winter season to the spring, and then finally only use thermal solar panels to produce all the heat demand required (only in case of indirect-expansion machine), thus saving on variable costs.\n\nIn comparison with a system with only thermal panels, it is possible to provide a greater part of the required winter heating using a non-fossil energy source.\n\nCompared to geothermal heat pumps, the main advantage is that the installation of a piping field in the soil is not required, which results in a lower cost of investment (drilling accounts for about 50% of the cost of a geothermal heat pump system) and in more flexibility of machine installation, even in areas in which there is limited available space. Furthermore, there are no risks related to possible thermal soil impoverishment. \n\nSimilarly to air source heat pumps, solar-assisted heat pump performance is affected by atmospheric conditions, although this effect is less significant. Solar-assisted heat pump performance is generally affected by varying solar radiation intensity rather than air temperature oscillation. This produces a greater SCOP (Seasonal COP). Additionally, evaporation temperature of the working fluid is higher than in air source heat pumps, so in general the coefficient of performance is significantly higher.\n\nIn general, a heat pump can evaporate at temperatures below the ambient temperature. In a solar-assisted heat pump this generates a temperature distribution of the thermal panels below that temperature. In this condition thermal losses of the panels towards the environment become additional available energy to the heat pump. In this case it is possible that the thermal efficiency of solar panels is more than 100%.\n\nAnother free-contribution in these conditions of low temperature is related to the possibility of condensation of water vapor on the surface of the panels, which provides additional heat to the heat transfer fluid (normally it is a small part of the total heat collected by solar panels), that is equal to the latent heat of condensation.\n\nThe simple configuration of solar-assisted heat pump as only solar panels as heat source for the evaporator. It can also exist a configuration with an additional heat source. The goal is to have further advantages in energy saving but, on the other hand, the management and optimization of the system become more complex.\n\nThe geothermal-solar configuration allows reducing the size of the piping field (and reduce the investment) and to have a regeneration of the ground during summer through the heat collected from the thermal panels.\n\nThe air-solar structure allows an acceptable heat input also during cloudy days, maintaining the compactness of the system and the easiness to install it.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18705367", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18705367", "title": "Three-dimensional quartz phenolic", "text": "Three-dimensional quartz phenolic\n\nThree-dimensional quartz phenolic (3DQP) is a phenolic-based material composed of a quartz cloth material impregnated with a phenolic resin and hot-pressed. When cured, 3DQP can be machined in the same way as metals and is tough and fire-resistant. 3DQP is used for the manufacture of nuclear weapon re-entry vehicles (RV).\n\nThe quartz material 'hardens' the RV protecting the nuclear warhead against high-energy neutrons emitted by exo-atmospheric Anti-ballistic missile (ABM) bursts before re-entry.\n\n3DQP was first used on the British Chevaline improved front end (IFE) for the Royal Navy's UGM-27 Polaris system that was in service from 1982 to 1996, when it was replaced by Trident D5.\n\nA licence to manufacture 3DQP in the US was acquired from the British Government and production was undertaken by AVCO, one of the two suppliers of US RVs, the other being General Electric. First production examples of the Chevaline ReBs were manufactured by AVCO, now part of Textron. Subsequently, production was undertaken in the UK at the Royal Ordnance Factory Burghfield using quartz material purchased from France. Documents declassified in 2013 describe in some detail the process whereby a quartz two-dimensional cloth is hand woven from quartz threads with conventional wefts and warps within a stainless steel matrix before being impregnated under pressure with a phenolic resin. A third dimension was then woven through the cavities created by removal of the stainless steel matrix before these threads were impregnated with phenolic resin inside an autoclave pressurised at up to 2000 psi. The resulting material was then lathe-turned to the ReB profile, internally and externally.\n\nThe supply by AVCO of test samples of 3DQP to France without UK permission caused friction between the British Government and AVCO, and action in the US courts by the British government.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25641524", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25641524", "title": "Winagami sill complex", "text": "Winagami sill complex\n\nThe Winagami sill complex, also called the Winagami sills, is a Paleoproterozoic large igneous province of northwestern Alberta, Canada. It consists of a series of related sills that were formed between 1.89 and 1.76 billion years ago. The Winagami sill complex covers an area of .\n"}
{"id": "916249", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=916249", "title": "Women in the World Wars", "text": "Women in the World Wars\n\nIn Great Britain just before World War I there were 24 million adult women and 1.7 million worked in domestic service, 800,000 worked in the textile manufacturing industry, 600,000 worked in the clothing trades, 500,000 worked in commerce, and 260,000 worked in local and national government, including teaching. The British textile and clothing trades, in particular, employed far more women than men and were regarded as 'women's work'.\n\nWhile some women managed to enter the traditionally male career paths, women, for the most part, were expected to be primarily involved in \"duties at home\" and \"women's work\". Before 1914, only a few countries, including New Zealand, Australia, and several Scandinavian nations, had given women the right to vote (see Women's suffrage), but otherwise, women were minimally involved in the political process.\n\nThe two world wars hinged as much on industrial production as they did on battlefield clashes. With millions of men away fighting and with the inevitable casualties, there was a severe shortage of labour in a range of industries, from rural and farm work to urban office jobs.\n\nDuring both world wars women were needed by the national war effort to undertake new roles. In Great Britain, this was known as a process of \"Dilution\" and was strongly contested by the trade unions, particularly in the engineering and ship building industries. For the duration of both World Wars, women sometimes did take on skilled \"men's work\". However, in accordance with the agreement negotiated with the trade unions, women undertaking jobs covered by the Dilution agreement lost their jobs at the end of the First World War.\n\nBy 1914 nearly 5.09 million out of the 23.8 million women in Britain were working. Thousands worked in munitions factories (see Canary girl), offices and large hangars used to build aircraft. Women were also involved in knitting socks for the soldiers on the front, as well as other voluntary work, but as a matter of survival women had to work for paid employment for the sake of their families. Many women worked as volunteers serving at the Red Cross, encouraged the sale of war bonds or planted \"victory gardens\".\n\nNot only did women have to keep \"the home fires burning\" but they took on voluntary and paid employment that was diverse in scope and showed that women were capable in diverse fields of endeavour. There is little doubt this expanded the view of the role of women in society and changed the outlook of what women could do and their place in the workforce. Although women were still paid less than men in the workforce, pay inequalities were starting to diminish as women were now getting paid two-thirds of the typical pay for men, a 28% increase. However, the extent of this change is open to historical debate. In part because of female participation in the war effort Canada, the United States, Great Britain, and a number of European countries extended suffrage to women in the years after the First World War.\n\nBritish historians no longer emphasize the granting of woman suffrage as a reward for women's participation in war work. Pugh (1974) argues that enfranchising soldiers primarily and women secondarily was decided by senior politicians in 1916. In the absence of major women's groups demanding equal suffrage, the government's conference recommended limited, age-restricted women's suffrage. The suffragettes had been weakened, Pugh argues, by repeated failures before 1914 and by the disorganizing effects of war mobilization; therefore they quietly accepted these restrictions, which were approved in 1918 by a majority of the War Ministry and each political party in Parliament. More generally, G. R. Searle (2004) argues that the British debate was essentially over by the 1890s, and that granting the suffrage in 1918 was mostly a byproduct of giving the vote to male soldiers. Women in Britain finally achieved suffrage on the same terms as men in 1928.\n\nNursing became almost the only area of female contribution that involved being at the front and experiencing the war. In Britain the Queen Alexandra's Royal Army Nursing Corps, First Aid Nursing Yeomanry and Voluntary Aid Detachment were all started before World War I. The VADs were not allowed in the front line until 1915. By 1916, the FANY began to work for the British Army as ambulance convoy drivers and, later that same year, the VAD started their own ambulance convoy.\n\nMore than 12,000 women enlisted in auxiliary roles in the United States Navy and Marine Corps during the First World War. About 400 of them died in that war.\n\nOver 2,800 women served with the Royal Canadian Army Medical Corps during the First World War and it was during that era that the role of Canadian women in the military first extended beyond nursing. Women were given paramilitary training in small arms, drill, first aid and vehicle maintenance in case they were needed as home guards. Forty-three women in the Canadian military died during WWI.\n\nThe only belligerent to deploy female combat troops in substantial numbers was the Russian Provisional Government in 1917. Its few \"Women's Battalions\" fought well, but failed to provide the propaganda value expected of them and were disbanded before the end of the year. In the later Russian Civil War, the Bolsheviks would also employ women infantry.\n\nIn the 1918 Finnish Civil War, more than 2,000 women fought in the paramilitary Women's Red Guards.\n\nWomen in World War II took on a variety of roles from country to country. World War II involved global conflict on an unprecedented scale; the absolute urgency of mobilizing the entire population made the expansion of the role of women inevitable. The hard skilled labor of women was symbolized in the United States by the concept of Rosie the Riveter, a woman factory laborer performing what was previously considered man's work.\n\nWith this expanded horizon of opportunity and confidence, and with the extended skill base that many women could now give to paid and voluntary employment, women's roles in World War II were even more extensive than in the First World War. By 1945, more than 2.2 million women were working in war industries, especially in munitions plants. They participated in the building of ships, aircraft, vehicles, and weaponry. Women also worked on farms, drove trucks, provided logistic support for soldiers and entered professional areas of work that were previously the preserve of men. In the Allied countries thousands of women enlisted as nurses serving in the front line units. Thousands of others joined defensive militias at home and there was a great increase in the number of women serving for the military itself, particularly in the Soviet Union's Red Army.\n\nDuring World War II, approximately 400,000 U.S. women served in support positions with the armed forces and more than 460 — some sources say the figure is closer to 543 — lost their lives as a result of the war, including 16 from enemy fire. Women became officially recognized as a permanent part of the U.S. armed forces after the war with the passing of the Women's Armed Services Integration Act of 1948.\n\nThe ability for women to be involved overseas opened doors for many underrepresented groups, including Latinas, to serve their country.\nSeveral hundred thousand women in countries such as England, Soviet Union, served in combat roles, especially in anti-aircraft units. The U.S. decided not to use women in combat because public opinion would not tolerate it. \n\nGermany had presented an ideal female role at home, but the urgent need for war production led to the hiring of millions of German women for factory and office work.\n\nMany women served in the resistances of Yugoslavia, Poland, France, and Italy, and in the British SOE and American OSS which aided these.\n\nApproximately 2 million Jewish women in the Holocaust were killed, and the Nazis also killed other women who belonged to groups they were committing genocide against, such as women with disabilities and Roma women.\n\nWomen, called comfort women, were forced into sexual slavery by the Imperial Japanese Army before and during World War II. Korean women were especially used.\n\nBut a far greater number of women worked in war industry than in sex slavery. Women in Japan and Korea also performed industrial labor duties during the war. They helped make bombs and guns and airplanes, etc.\n\nAustralian women during World War II played a larger role than they had during The First World War, when they primarily served as nurses and additional homefront workers. Many women wanted to play an active role in the war, and hundreds of voluntary women's auxiliary and paramilitary organisations had been formed by 1940. A shortage of male recruits forced the military to establish female branches in 1941 and 1942. Women entered roles which had traditionally been limited to men, but continued to receive lower wages.\n\nCanadian women in the World Wars became indispensable because the World Wars were total wars that required the maximum effort of the civilian population. While Canadians were deeply divided on the issue of conscription for men, there was wide agreement that women had important new roles to play in the home, in civic life, in industry, in nursing, and even in military uniforms. Historians debate whether there was much long-term impact on the postwar roles of women.\n\n\n\n\n"}
