{"id": "36927400", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36927400", "title": "Alcatraz Citadel", "text": "Alcatraz Citadel\n\nAlcatraz Citadel, also known as Fort Alcatraz, was the original military defense and prison on Alcatraz Island, off the coast of San Francisco, California, United States. The citadel was built in 1859 as a U.S. Army military defense, and began function as a war camp in 1861 and long-term military prison in 1868. During the American Civil War, the citadel and its batteries provided an important line of defense. The island continued to develop in the 1870s and 1880s, and in 1893, the first hospital on Alcatraz opened. A new upper prison was built in 1904, but after the citadel ceased function as a military defense in 1907 and the original citadel collapsed the following year, a $250,000 concrete military prison was erected between 1910 and 1912. In 1933–1934, this was modernized and became the Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary. It housed some of America's most dangerous criminals between 1934 and 1963.\n\nNative Americans, known as Ohlone (A Miwok Indian word), were the earliest known inhabitants of the Alcatraz island before it attained its niche in history as the most secure prison for notorious criminals. Even though they avoided the island as they believed that evil spirits resided there due to the bad atmosphere they got from the place, they were using it for deporting their criminals under the tribal law to live on the island in isolation. They also gathered eggs of birds and marine food from the island. Even after the Spanish discovered the Island in 1759, and started spreading Christianity, the natives who did not want to convert used the islands as their refuge.\n\nHowever, the earliest recorded owner of the island of Alcatraz is Julian Workman, to whom it was given by Mexican governor Pio Pico in June 1846, with the understanding that Workman would build a lighthouse on it. Julian Workman is the baptismal name of William Workman, co-owner of Rancho La Puente and personal friend of Pio Pico. Later in 1846, acting in his capacity as Military Governor of California, John C. Fremont, champion of Manifest Destiny and leader of the Bear Flag Republic, bought the island for $5,000 in the name of the United States government from Francis Temple. In 1850, President Millard Fillmore ordered that Alcatraz Island be set aside specifically for military purposes based upon the U.S. acquisition of California from Mexico following the Mexican–American War. Fremont had expected a large compensation for his initiative in purchasing and securing Alcatraz Island for the U.S. government, but the U.S. government later invalidated the sale and paid Fremont nothing. Fremont and his heirs sued for compensation during protracted but unsuccessful legal battles that extended into the 1890s.\n\nFollowing the acquisition of California by the United States as a result of the Treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo which ended the Mexican–American War (1848), and the onset of the California Gold Rush the following year, the U.S. Army began studying the suitability of Alcatraz Island for the positioning of coastal batteries to protect the approaches to San Francisco Bay. In 1853, under the direction of Zealous B. Tower, the United States Army Corps of Engineers began fortifying the island, work which continued, and the citadel was completed in 1859, on a budget of $87,689. The first step in this direction, taken up in 1853, was the start of construction of a fortress or citadel at the top of sandstone rock outcrops. The island was encircled with steep walls built of stone and bricks abutting the rock faces, and buildings for accommodating defense personnel and offices and temporary launching jetty were also added. A lighthouse was built and 11 cannons were fixed. The main fortress took many years to build as the building material (granite) required for construction had to be imported from China.\n\nArmy engineer James B. McPherson, later to become a prominent general during the Civil War, was one of the earliest commanders to serve on Alcatraz in 1858. The three-storied citadel took final shape by 1859 when gun positions, roads, guard houses and draw bridge over the moat (encircling the citadel) were all added. The citadel had housing capacity for 200 soldiers with food storage facility to last for four months in case of any long drawn attack. In 1859, the coastal defense system became a reality and Captain Joseph Stewart was commander of the island forces which included 86 men of Company H, Third U.S. Artillery, before departing from the island in 1861 on the outbreak of the Civil War. The military officers wore blue suits and white gloves.\nIn 1861, the citadel commenced function as a prison, with tiny new cells being added to the basement, and in 1867 was extended, becoming a long-term military prison in 1868. The citadel on Alcatraz was crucial to defense during the American Civil War (1861–1865), having some 111 cannons encircling the island at peak, and was also used as a war camp. During the Civil War, the defense establishment at Alcatraz Citadel had the onerous task to defuse the possibility of any local war between the Union and Confederate supporters who were both part of the population of California, and to protect San Francisco. Ammunition in the form of 10,000 muskets and 150,000 cartridges was supplied to the fort, which made the Fort Alcatraz and the island most impregnable and thus leaving any plans of the Confederate soldiers of taking control of the San Francisco Bay and California State could be taken under its fold was thwarted. Alcatraz was officially designated as a military prison on August 27, 1861. In March 1863, when there was a threat that the San Francisco Bay would be captured by the Confederates, the schooner, which was to carry out the operation set sail; the U.S. Navy prevented the schooner from moving out and captured the crew along with ammunition and 15 confederates who were hiding in the galleys of the ship. Consequent to this, the importance of Alcatraz increased, more and more confederates and civilians were arrested for reasons of treason and kept in the military prison, and to accommodate the increased number of prisoners, a temporary makeshift wooden prison was built in 1863 to the north of the guardhouse. In 1864, with civil war showing no signs of abating, fortifications were provided in the fort in the form of 15-inch Rodman cannons and more \"bomb-proof barracks” built. At the time of end of the Civil War in 1865, there were more than one hundred cannons in the island, which were never put to any aggressive battle, but used only once to provide gun salute in honor of President Abraham Lincoln at his official funeral procession held in San Francisco.\n\nAs the civil war ended, the military prison housed Confederate sympathizers who celebrated Lincoln's death. During the Indian Wars that followed the civil war, Indians who went against the government were sent to the Alcatraz prison. On June 5, 1873, Paiute Tom was the first Native American who was imprisoned there on transfer from Camp McDermit in Nebraska. In the 1870s, Major George Mendell ordered the prisoners, aided by mules, to assist in changing the natural landscape of the island and creating a top level, dumping debris into the coves and bay. In 1882, the citadel was enlarged to provide more accommodation for the families of the military officers working on Alcatraz. Between 1873 and 1895, 32 Native Americans were imprisoned at the citadel on Alcatraz, including 19 Hopi men held in captivity there between January and August 1895 after being transferred from Fort Defiance. The island continued to develop in the 1880s and in 1898 the population of Alcatraz increased dramatically from 26 to over 450 due to the Spanish–American War and placed a demand for new buildings. The original barracks evolved into Building 64 in 1905. The first hospital on Alcatraz opened in 1893.\n\nAs the number of prisoners to be housed in the citadel increased, more space was built in the form of the Upper Prison, which consisted of three wooden structures, each of two tiers, with the lower prison getting converted as a workshop. However, both Upper and Lower Prison cells, being made of wood, were frequently subject to fire hazards, and this led to change of the structural form of the barracks; concrete structures were built, replacing the wooden ones.\n\nIn 1904, an upper prison building was built at a higher level on the island and replaced the lower prison, with a capacity of 307 inmates.\n\nAlcatraz was renamed as the \"Pacific Branch, U.S. Military Prison” in 1907, and as the importance of the Island citadel became less and less obvious due to modernization of the naval facilities, infantry soldiers were shifted and prison guards brought in their place. It developed a reputation for its brutal methods of torturing prisoners, placing prisoners in pitch black cells for up two weeks.\n\nAlcatraz was barely affected by the 1906 San Francisco earthquake which devastated the city, and the prison population dramatically increased as prisoners were temporarily transferred to the island due to damage in the city. In 1907, Alcatraz Citadel ceased function as a military defense and became the Pacific Branch, U.S. Military Prison solely. When the original 1860s citadel collapsed in 1908, the Citadel was demolished in 1909 up to its basement over which the new prison was built by the military prisoners between 1909 and 1911 and named as “the Pacific Branch, U.S. Disciplinary Barracks for the U.S. Army”, which became popular as \"The Rock\". The prison was entirely rebuilt in concrete in 1910-1912 under the command of Colonel Reuben Turner on a $250,000 budget on the site of the remains and short-lived upper prison building. Many of the former underground tunnels and chambers of the original fort remain today and are still accessible. This building was modernized in 1934 when it reopened as a federal penitentiary, the notorious Alcatraz prison which held America's most ruthless criminals until 1963.\n\nDuring the World War I, the citadel was used for incarcerating military prisoners as also German Prisoners of War, which necessitated building of a larger building structure by demolishing the old upper and lower prisons. A new cell house formed of four cell blocks with 600 cells was built, in 1912, which at that time was reported to be the largest reinforced concrete building in the world; the cells had toilet and electricity facilities.\n\nIn the new established order, facilities for education and rehabilitation of prisoners with minimum offence were also introduced which resulted in many reformed prisoners getting back to the army. Even though the prison was a military establishment, it had its fair share of prison escapes. 29 escapes were reported involving 80 convicts out of which 62 were caught and tried while the rest of the prisoners were not traced. In the prison escape of November 28, 1918, there were four prisoners who escaped in rafts, and they were seen at Sutro Forest. However, only one was caught and the others escaped.\n\nDue to high costs of maintenance of the Alcatraz as a defense establishment, a well thought out plan was mooted to convert it into the Alcatraz Federal Penitentiary. Also during this period crime rate had escalated in the country due to the great depression with prohibition further exacerbating the situation resulting in mobsters and gangsters operating freely indulging in looting, violence and killings, with the law enforcing agencies failing to cope with the situation; prison escapes had become the order of the day. The suggestion to convert the Military Prison into a Federal Penitentiary was welcomed by the President Herbert Hoover and thus the maximum-security prison was created. The proposal for transfer of Alcatraz to the Bureau of Prisons was initiated in October 1933 and after a vigorous adaption from the military prison throughout 1934, it opened in August 1934, ending some eighty years of U.S. Army occupation. With this change of guard, 32 hardcore prisoners remained at Alcatraz while the rest were shifted to the prisons at Fort Leavenworth, Kansas, United States Penitentiary, Atlanta, Fort Jay, New Jersey and several others.\n\nThe main mode of transport accessing the island was the \"General McPherson\". Upon embarking at the port, the main grounds would be reached by a \"long dreary corridor\" known as the sally port and a drawbridge surrounded by a dry moat, below. It could hold up to 200 men during an emergency and enough supplies to last four months. Alcatraz Citadel consisted of a basement, which contained the kitchen, bakery, bedrooms, storerooms and jail cells, and two levels above ground which contained the military personnel quarters, servant quarters, parlors and a mess room. In-ground water tanks and water tanks were situated on the roof of the citadel. Other buildings included the Batteries of Rosecranz and Halleck in the north, the barracks building in the northeast, the Battery of McClellan and Fog Bell House in the south, the Battery of McPherson in the west and the Batteries of Stevens and Mansfield in the northwest and the lighthouse aside the main citadel. Battery McClellan was equipped with a 15-inch Rodman gun weighing over 25 tons, capable of launching a 330-pound explosive 4,680 yards when angled at 25 degrees. The Parade Grounds were located in the left centre. When the new concrete prison was built in 1910-2, iron staircases in the interior were retained from the old citadel and massive granite blocks originally used as gun mounts were reused as the wharf's bulkheads and retaining walls.\n"}
{"id": "1789", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1789", "title": "Apuleius", "text": "Apuleius\n\nApuleius (; also called Lucius Apuleius Madaurensis; c. 124 – c. 170 AD) was a Latin-language prose writer, Platonist philosopher and rhetorician. He was a Numidian who lived under the Roman Empire and was from Madauros (now M'Daourouch, Algeria). He studied Platonism in Athens, travelled to Italy, Asia Minor, and Egypt, and was an initiate in several cults or mysteries. The most famous incident in his life was when he was accused of using magic to gain the attentions (and fortune) of a wealthy widow. He declaimed and then distributed a witty \"tour de force\" in his own defense before the proconsul and a court of magistrates convened in Sabratha, near ancient Tripoli, Libya. This is known as the \"Apologia\".\n\nHis most famous work is his bawdy picaresque novel, the \"Metamorphoses\", otherwise known as \"The Golden Ass\". It is the only Latin novel that has survived in its entirety. It relates the ludicrous adventures of one Lucius, who experiments with magic and is accidentally turned into a donkey.\n\nApuleius was born in Madauros, a \"colonia\" in Numidia on the North African coast bordering Gaetulia, and he described himself as \"half-Numidian half-Gaetulian.\" Madaurus was the same \"colonia\" where Augustine of Hippo later received part of his early education, and, though located well away from the Romanized coast, is today the site of some pristine Roman ruins. As to his first name, no \"praenomen\" is given in any ancient source; late-medieval manuscripts began the tradition of calling him \"Lucius\" from the name of the hero of his novel. Details regarding his life come mostly from his defense speech (\"Apology\") and his work \"Florida\", which consists of snippets taken from some of his best speeches.\n\nHis father was a provincial magistrate (\"duumvir\") who bequeathed at his death the sum of nearly two million sesterces to his two sons. Apuleius studied with a master at Carthage (where he later settled) and later at Athens, where he studied Platonist philosophy among other subjects. He subsequently went to Rome to study Latin rhetoric and, most likely, to speak in the law courts for a time before returning to his native North Africa. He also travelled extensively in Asia Minor and Egypt, studying philosophy and religion, burning up his inheritance while doing so.\n\nApuleius was an initiate in several Greco-Roman mysteries, including the Dionysian Mysteries. He was a priest of Asclepius and, according to Augustine, \"sacerdos provinciae Africae\" (i.e., priest of the province of Carthage).\n\nNot long after his return home he set out upon a new journey to Alexandria. On his way there he was taken ill at the town of Oea (modern-day Tripoli) and was hospitably received into the house of Sicinius Pontianus, with whom he had been friends when he had studied in Athens. The mother of Pontianus, Pudentilla, was a very rich widow. With her son's consent – indeed encouragement – Apuleius agreed to marry her. Meanwhile, Pontianus himself married the daughter of one Herennius Rufinus; he, indignant that Pudentilla's wealth should pass out of the family, instigated his son-in-law, together with a younger brother, Sicinius Pudens, a mere boy, and their paternal uncle, Sicinius Aemilianus, to join him in impeaching Apuleius upon the charge that he had gained the affections of Pudentilla by charms and magic spells. The case was heard at Sabratha, near Tripoli, c. 158 AD, before Claudius Maximus, proconsul of Africa. The accusation itself seems to have been ridiculous, and the spirited and triumphant defence spoken by Apuleius is still extant. This is known as the \"Apologia (A Discourse on Magic)\".\n\nApuleius accused an extravagant personal enemy of turning his house into a brothel and prostituting his own wife.\n\nOf his subsequent career we know little. Judging from the many works of which he was author, he must have devoted himself diligently to literature. He occasionally gave speeches in public to great reception; he had the charge of exhibiting gladiatorial shows and wild beast events in the province, and statues were erected in his honor by the senate of Carthage and of other senates.\n\nThe date, place and circumstances of Apuleius' death are not known. There is no record of his activities after 170, a fact which has led some people to believe that he must have died about then (say in 171 ), although other scholars feel that he may still have been alive in 180 or even 190.\n\n\"The Golden Ass\" (\"Asinus Aureus\") or \"Metamorphoses\" is the only Latin novel that has survived in its entirety. It is an imaginative, irreverent, and amusing work that relates the ludicrous adventures of one Lucius, who experiments with magic and is accidentally turned into an ass. In this guise he hears and sees many unusual things, until escaping from his predicament in a rather unexpected way. Within this frame story are found many digressions, the longest among them being the well-known tale of Cupid and Psyche.\n\nThe \"Metamorphoses\" ends with the (once again human) hero, Lucius, eager to be initiated into the mystery cult of Isis; he abstains from forbidden foods, bathes, and purifies himself. He is introduced to the \"Navigium Isidis\". Then the secrets of the cult's books are explained to him, and further secrets are revealed before he goes through the process of initiation, which involves a trial by the elements in a journey to the underworld. Lucius is then asked to seek initiation into the cult of Osiris in Rome, and eventually is initiated into the \"pastophoroi\" – a group of priests that serves Isis and Osiris. The adventures of the ass stand at the beginning of the picaresque novel tradition which eventually produced \"The History of Tom Jones, a Foundling\".\n\nApologia (\"Apulei Platonici pro Se de Magia\") is the version of the defense presented in Sabratha, in 158-159, before the proconsul Claudius Maximus, by Apuleius accused of the crime of magic. Between the traditional exordium and peroratio, the argumentation is divided into three sections:\nThe main interest of the Apology is historical: it offers a lot of information about its author, magic and life in Africa in the second century. But, it is not devoid of literary value.\n\nHis other works are:\n\n\nApuleius wrote many other works which have not survived. He wrote works of poetry and fiction, as well as technical treatises on politics, dendrology, agriculture, medicine, natural history, astronomy, music, and arithmetic, and he translated Plato's \"Phaedo\".\n\nThe extant works wrongly attributed to Apuleius are:\n\n\nThe Apuleian Sphere described in \"Petosiris to Nechepso\", also known as \"Columcille's Circle\" or \"Petosiris' Circle\", is a magical prognosticating device for predicting the survival of a patient.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7898743", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7898743", "title": "Archival informatics", "text": "Archival informatics\n\nArchival informatics is the theory and application of informatics in and around the realm of archives and record keeping. More specifically, it refers to the proper understanding and use of emerging technologies, techniques, and theories such as linguistic analysis, heuristics, and automation in the storage, manipulation and retrieval of archives and databases.\n\nAn \"Archival Informatics Newsletter\" was started in 1987.\n\nThe first use of \"informatics\" specifically within the field of archival science dates back to 1986 with the formation of Archives & Museum Informatics by David Bearman. He indicated that he borrowed the term from the field of biomedicine where \"the importance of information technologies (like computers), information techniques (like full-text retrieval or digitizing radiographic images) and information theories, especially those of linguistic analysis, artificial intelligence, indexing and retrieval, are coming together in new ways of practicing medicine\". The concept was critical to him because it illustrated a \"system oriented view of the synergism of information based activities\", rather than the more parochial view implied by confined subject names such as automation or computerization. Although it has been 21 years since this term has been introduced its usage is not common in literature; largely it is used in reference to Bearman’s creation, though exceptions do exist.\n\n"}
{"id": "66076", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=66076", "title": "Art museum", "text": "Art museum\n\nAn art museum or art gallery is a building or space for the exhibition of art, usually visual art.\nMuseums can be public or private, but what distinguishes a museum is the ownership of a collection. Paintings are the most commonly displayed art objects; however, sculptures, decorative arts, furniture, textiles, costumes, drawings, pastels, watercolors, collages, prints, artist's books, photographs, and installation art are also regularly shown. Although primarily concerned with providing a space to show works of visual art, art galleries are sometimes used to host other artistic activities, such as performance arts, music concerts, or poetry readings.\n\nThe term relates to public and private institutions. Public galleries are non-profit or public museums displaying selected art collections. Private galleries refer to commercial enterprises for selling art. However, both types may host traveling exhibits or temporary exhibitions including art borrowed from elsewhere.\n\nIn broad terms, in United States usage, the word \"gallery\" alone often implies a private gallery, while a public gallery is likely an \"art museum\". In British and Commonwealth usage, the word \"gallery\" alone implies a public gallery, which is distinguished from a \"private\" or \"commercial\" gallery, and the word \"museum\" alone is understood to refer to institutions holding collections of historic, archaeological or scientific artefacts, rather than fine art.\n\nThe rooms in museums where art is displayed for the public are often referred to as galleries as well, with a room dedicated to Ancient Egyptian art often being called the \"Egyptian Gallery\", for example.\n\nThe term contemporary art gallery refers to a private for-profit commercial gallery. These galleries are found clustered together in large urban centers. Smaller cities are home to at least one gallery, but they may also be found in towns or villages, and remote areas where artists congregate, \"e.g.\" the Taos art colony and St Ives, Cornwall.\n\nContemporary art galleries are often open to the general public without charge; however, some are semi-private. They profit by taking a portion of art sales; twenty-five to fifty per cent is typical. There are also many non-profit or collective galleries. Some galleries in cities like Tokyo charge the artists a flat rate per day, though this is considered distasteful in some international art markets. Galleries often hang solo shows. Curators often create group shows with a message about a certain theme, trend in art, or group of associated artists. Galleries sometimes choose to represent exclusive artists, giving them opportunities for regular shows.\n\nA gallery's definition can also include the artist cooperative or artist-run space, which often (in North America and Western Europe) operates as a space with a more democratic mission and selection process. Such galleries have a board of directors and a volunteer or paid support staff who select and curate shows by committee, or some kind of similar process to choose art often lacking commercial ends.\n\nA vanity gallery is an art gallery charging fees from artists to show their work, much like a vanity press does for authors. The shows lack legitimate curation and often include as many artists as possible. Most art professionals are able to identify them on an artist's resume.\n\nUniversity art museums and galleries constitute collections of art developed, owned, and maintained by all kinds of schools, community colleges, colleges, and universities. This phenomenon exists in the West and East, making it a global practice. Although overlooked, there are over 700 university art museums in the US alone. This number, compared to other kinds of art museums, makes university art museums perhaps the largest category of art museums in the country. While the first of these collections can be traced to learning collections developed in art academies in Western Europe, they are now associated with and housed in centers of higher education of all types.\n\nThroughout history, large and expensive works of art have generally been commissioned by religious institutions and monarchs and been displayed in temples, churches, and palaces. Although these collections of art were private, they were often made available for viewing for a portion of the public. In classical times, religious institutions began to function as an early form of art gallery. Wealthy Roman collectors of engraved gems (including Julius Caesar) and other precious objects often donated their collections to temples. It is unclear how easy it was in practice for the public to view these items.\nIn Europe, from the Late Medieval period onwards, areas in royal palaces, castles, and large country houses of the social elite were often made partially accessible to sections of the public, where art collections could be viewed. At the Palace of Versailles, entrance was restricted to people wearing the proper apparel – the appropriate accessories (silver shoe buckles and a sword) could be hired from shops outside. The treasuries of cathedrals and large churches, or parts of them, were often set out for public display. Many of the grander English country houses could be toured by the respectable for a tip to the housekeeper, during the long periods when the family were not in residence.\n\nSpecial arrangements were made to allow the public to see many royal or private collections placed in galleries, as with most of the paintings of the Orleans Collection, which were housed in a wing of the Palais-Royal in Paris and could be visited for most of the 18th century. In Italy, the art tourism of the Grand Tour became a major industry from the 18th century onwards, and cities made efforts to make their key works accessible. The Capitoline Museums began in 1471 with a donation of classical sculpture to the city of Rome by the Papacy, while the Vatican Museums, whose collections are still owned by the Pope, trace their foundation to 1506, when the recently discovered \"Laocoön and His Sons\" was put on public display. A series of museums on different subjects were opened over subsequent centuries, and many of the buildings of the Vatican were purpose-built as galleries. An early royal treasury opened to the public was the Grünes Gewölbe of the Kingdom of Saxony in the 1720s.\n\nPrivately established museums open to the public began to be established from the 17th century onwards, often based around a collection of the cabinet of curiosities type. The first such museum was the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford, opened in 1683 to house and display the artefacts of Elias Ashmole that were given to Oxford University in a bequest.\n\nIn the second half of the eighteenth century, many private collections of art were nationalised and opened to the public.\n\nIn 1753, the British Museum was established and the Old Royal Library collection of manuscripts and artwork was donated to it for public viewing. In 1777, a proposal to the British government was put forward by MP John Wilkes to buy the art collection of the then late Sir Robert Walpole who had amassed one of the greatest such collections in Europe, and house it in a specially built wing of the British Museum for public viewing. After much debate, the idea was eventually abandoned due to the great expense, and twenty years later, the collection was bought by Tsaritsa Catherine the Great of Russia and housed in the State Hermitage Museum in Saint Petersburg.\n\nThe Bavarian royal collection (now in the Alte Pinakothek, Munich) was opened to the public in 1779 and the Medici collection in Florence around 1789 (as the Uffizi Gallery). The opening of the Musée du Louvre during the French Revolution in 1793 as a public museum for much of the former French royal collection marked an important stage in the development of public access to art by transferring the ownership to a republican state; but it was a continuation of trends already well established.\nThe building now occupied by the Prado in Madrid was built before the French Revolution for the public display of parts of the royal art collection, and similar royal galleries were opened to the public in Vienna, Munich and other capitals. In Great Britain, however, the corresponding Royal Collection remained in the private hands of the monarch and the first purpose-built national art galleries were the Dulwich Picture Gallery, founded in 1814 and the National Gallery opened to the public a decade later in 1824.\n\nWorks on paper, such as drawings, pastels, watercolors, prints, and photographs are typically not permanently displayed for conservation reasons. Instead, public access to these materials is provided by a dedicated print study room located within the museum. Murals generally remain where they have been painted, although many have been removed to galleries. Various forms of 20th-century art, such as land art and performance art, also usually exist outside a gallery. Photographic records of these kinds of art are often shown in galleries, however. Most museum and large art galleries own more works than they have room to display. The rest are held in reserve collections, on or off-site.\n\nSimilar to an art gallery is the sculpture garden (or \"sculpture park\"), which presents sculpture in an outdoor space. Sculpture installation has grown in popularity, whereby temporary sculptures are installed in open spaces during events like festivals.\n\nThe architectural form of the art gallery was established by Sir John Soane with his design for the Dulwich Picture Gallery in 1817. This established the gallery as a series of interconnected rooms with largely uninterrupted wall spaces for hanging pictures and indirect lighting from skylights or roof lanterns.\n\nThe late 19th century saw a boom in the building of public art galleries in Europe and America, becoming an essential cultural feature of larger cities. More art galleries rose up alongside museums and public libraries as part of the municipal drive for literacy and public education.\n\nIn the middle and late twentieth century, earlier architectural styles employed for art museums (such as the Beaux-Arts style of the Metropolitan Museum of Art in New York City or the Gothic and Renaissance Revival architecture of Amsterdam's Rijksmuseum) succumbed to modern styles, such as Deconstructivism. Examples of this trend include the Guggenheim Museum in New York City by Frank Lloyd Wright, the Guggenheim Museum Bilbao by Frank Gehry, Centre Pompidou-Metz by Shigeru Ban, and the redesign of the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art by Mario Botta. Some critics argue these galleries defeat their purposes because their dramatic interior spaces distract the eye from the paintings they are supposed to exhibit.\n\nMany art museums throughout history have been designed with a cultural purpose or been subject to political intervention. In particular, national art galleries have been thought to incite feelings of nationalism. This has occurred in both democratic and non-democratic countries, although authoritarian regimes have historically exercised more control over administration of art museums. Ludwig Justi was for example dismissed as director of the Alte Nationalgalerie (Old National Gallery) in Berlin in 1933 by the new Nazi authorities for not being politically suitable.\n\nThe question of the place of the art museum in its community has long been under debate. Some see art museums is fundamentally elitist institutions, while others see them as institutions with the potential for societal education and uplift. John Cotton Dana, an American librarian and museum director, as well as the founder of the Newark Museum, saw the traditional art museum as a useless public institution, one that focused more on fashion and conformity rather than education and uplift. Indeed, Dana's ideal museum would be one best suited for active and vigorous use by the average citizen, located near the center of their daily movement. In addition, Dana's conception of the perfect museum included a wider variety of objects than the traditional art museum, including industrial tools and handicrafts that encourage imagination in areas traditionally considered mundane. This view of the art museum envisions it as one well-suited to an industrial world, indeed enhancing it. Dana viewed paintings and sculptures as much less useful than industrial products, comparing the museum to a department store. In addition, he encouraged the active lending-out of a museum's collected objects in order to enhance education at schools and to aid in the cultural development of individual members of the community. Finally, Dana saw branch museums throughout a city as a good method of making sure that every citizen has access to its benefits. Dana's view of the ideal museum sought to invest a wider variety of people in it, and was self-consciously not elitist.\n\nSince the 1970s, a number of political theorists and social commentators have pointed to the political implications of art museums and social relations. Pierre Bourdieu, for instance, argued that in spite the apparent freedom of choice in the arts, people's artistic preferences (such as classical music, rock, traditional music) strongly tie in with their social position. So called cultural capital is a major factor in social mobility (for example, getting a higher-paid, higher-status job). The argument states that certain art museums are aimed at perpetuating aristocratic and upper class ideals of taste and excludes segments of society without the social opportunities to develop such interest. The fine arts thus perpetuate social inequality by creating divisions between different social groups. This argument also ties in with the Marxist theory of mystification and elite culture.\n\nFurthermore, certain art galleries, such as the National Gallery in London and the Louvre in Paris are situated in buildings of considerable emotional impact. The Louvre in Paris is for instance located in the former Royal Castle of the ancient regime, and is thus clearly designed with a political agenda. It has been argued that such buildings create feelings of subjugation and adds to the mystification of fine arts.\n\nMost art museums have only limited online collections, but a few museums, as well as some libraries and government agencies, have developed substantial online catalogues. Museums, libraries, and government agencies with substantial online collections of prints, photographs, and other works on paper include:\n\n\nMuseums, libraries, and government agencies with substantial online collections with more focus on paintings and sculpture include:\n\n\nThere are a number of online art catalogues and galleries that have been developed independently of the support of any individual museum. Many of these, like American Art Gallery, are attempts to develop galleries of artwork that are encyclopedic or historical in focus, while others are commercial efforts to sell the work of contemporary artists.\n\nA limited number of such sites have independent importance in the art world. The large auction houses, such as Sotheby's, Bonhams, and Christie's, maintain large online databases of art which they have auctioned or are auctioning. Bridgeman Art Library serves as a central source of reproductions of artwork, with access limited to museums, art dealers, and other professionals or professional organizations.\n\nThere are also online galleries that have been developed by a collaboration of museums and galleries that are more interested with the categorization of art. They are interested in the potential use of folksonomy within museums and the requirements for post-processing of terms that have been gathered, both to test their utility and to deploy them in useful ways.\n\nThe steve.museum is one example of a site that is experimenting with this collaborative philosophy. The participating institutions include the Guggenheim Museum, the Cleveland Museum of Art, the Metropolitan Museum of Art, and the San Francisco Museum of Modern Art.\n\n\n\n\n\nNOTE: There are relatively few local/regional/national organizations specifically for ART MUSEUMS. Most art museums are associated with local/regional/national organizations for ARTS or HUMANITIES or MUSEUMS.\nMany of these organizations, in the USA, are listed on these websites, with web links:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "476714", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=476714", "title": "Britain's Road to Socialism", "text": "Britain's Road to Socialism\n\nBritain's Road to Socialism is the programme of the Communist Party of Britain, and is adhered to by the Young Communist League and the editors of the \"Morning Star\" newspaper.\n\nIt proposes that socialism can be achieved in Britain by the working class leading the other classes in a popular democratic anti-monopoly alliance against monopoly capital, and implementing a left-wing programme of socialist construction. Part of this strategy involves winning the labour movement with a left-wing position, through struggle in the existing democratic bodies of the working class, such as trades unions, trades union councils and tenant's associations.\n\nThe publication of Communist Party programmes in Britain began in the 1920s with the release of \"Class against Class, the General Election Programme of the Communist Party of Great Britain\". This was published in 1929 by the Communist Party of Great Britain (CPGB), the precursor to the Communist Party of Britain, for the general election of that year in which the party fielded 25 candidates. The subsequent programme, titled \"For Soviet Britain\", was published for the party's 13th Congress in 1935. An unnamed draft programme was issued in 1939 but the Second World War and its aftermath delayed the publication of an updated programme until the 1950s.\n\n\"For Soviet Britain\" was finally superseded in February 1951 when \"The British Road to Socialism\" was published, the original incarnation of today's \"Britain's Road to Socialism\". The first edition of the document received the personal approval of Joseph Stalin prior to publication. Under its original name, it underwent revisions in 1952, 1958, 1968 and 1977.\n\nWhen the CPGB's leadership abandoned \"The British Road to Socialism\" in 1985, elements in the party that remained loyal to the programme, including the then editorial board of \"The Morning Star\", split to form the Communist Party of Britain in 1988. The party published the 6th edition of \"The British Road to Socialism\" in 1989. Two subsequent editions have been produced with further revisions and a change of name to \"Britain's Road to Socialism\". The 7th edition was published in 2001 and the 8th edition in 2011.\n\n"}
{"id": "339487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=339487", "title": "British Museum tube station", "text": "British Museum tube station\n\nBritish Museum was a station on the London Underground, located in Holborn, central London. It was latterly served by the Central line and took its name from the nearby British Museum in Great Russell Street.\n\nThe station was opened by the Central London Railway in 1900. In 1933, with the expansion of Holborn station, less than 100 yards away, British Museum station was permanently closed. It was subsequently utilised as a military office and command post, but in 1989 the surface building was demolished. A portion of the eastbound tunnel is used to store materials for track maintenance, visible from passing trains.\n\nBritish Museum station was opened on 30 July 1900 by the Central London Railway (CLR; now the Central line), with its entrance located at No. 133, High Holborn (now a meeting venue), near the junction with New Oxford Street. In December 1906, Holborn station was opened by the Great Northern, Piccadilly and Brompton Railway (GNP&BR; now the Piccadilly line) less than 100 yards away. Despite being built and operated by separate companies, it was common for the underground railways to plan routes and locate stations so that interchanges could be easily formed between services. This had been done by other lines connecting with the CLR stations at Oxford Circus and Tottenham Court Road, but an interchange station was not initially constructed between the GNP&BR and the CLR because the tunnel alignment to British Museum station would not have been suitable for the GNP&BR's route to its Strand station (later renamed Aldwych). The junction between High Holborn and the newly constructed Kingsway was also a more prominent location for a station than that chosen by the CLR.\nThe possibility of an underground passageway was initially mooted, but the idea suffered from the complexity of tunneling between the stations. Holborn station was, in any case, better situated than British Museum, as it had better tram connections (Holborn had a stop on the now defunct Kingsway tramway subway). A proposal to enlarge the tunnels under High Holborn to create new platforms at Holborn station for the CLR and to abandon the British Museum station was originally included in a private bill submitted to parliament by the CLR in November 1913, although the First World War prevented any work taking place. The works were eventually carried out as part of the modernisation of Holborn station at the beginning of the 1930s when escalators were installed in place of lifts. British Museum station was closed on 24 September 1933, with the new platforms at Holborn opening the following day.\nBritish Museum station was subsequently used up to the 1960s as a military administrative office and emergency command post, but the surface station building was demolished in 1989, and the platforms could no longer be accessed from street level. The platforms have since been removed, thus lowering the entire tunnel floor to track level. A portion of the eastbound tunnel is used by engineers to store materials for track maintenance, which can be seen from passing trains.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43605247", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43605247", "title": "CalPhotos", "text": "CalPhotos\n\nCalPhotos is an online database of natural history photographs, including many useful for identifying wildlife. It is maintained by the University of California. Its images are used by many universities, government agencies, websites, and others, including a partnership with the Encyclopedia of Life. Plant identifications are user-submitted, but a process for review and correction is available.\n\n"}
{"id": "11253620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11253620", "title": "Case hierarchy", "text": "Case hierarchy\n\nIn linguistic typology, the case hierarchy is a particular order of cases where languages that lack a particular case are unlikely to have any of the cases listed after it in the hierarchy. Equivalently, languages that do have a particular case will usually have at least one case from each position on its left. It was developed by the Australian linguist Barry Blake. The hierarchy is as follows:\n\nThis is only a general tendency, however. Many forms of Central German such as Colognian or Luxembourgish have a dative case but lack a genitive. In Irish nouns, the nominative and accusative have fallen together, while the dative and locative cases have remained separate in some paradigms; Irish also has a genitive and vocative case. In Punjabi, the accusative, genitive, and dative have merged to an oblique case, but the language still retains vocative, locative, and ablative cases. Old English had an instrumental case, but not a locative or prepositional.\n\nBlake argues that it is \"doubtful that the hierarchy can be extended much further\", but does suggest that the most common cases not listed in the hierarchy are the comitative, purposive, allative, perlative and comparative.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5870350", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5870350", "title": "Christian nationalism", "text": "Christian nationalism\n\nChristian nationalism is Christianity-affiliated religious nationalism. Christian nationalists focus primarily on internal politics, such as passing laws that reflect their view of Christianity and its role in political and social life. They are actively promoting religious (Christian) and nationalistic discourses in various fields of social life, from Politics and History, to Culture and Science. In Europe and the United States, Christian nationalism ranges from conservative to far right-wing.\n\nChristian nationalistic movements often have complex leadership structure, depending on the nature of their relationship with local Church institutions. Some movements are more lay oriented, with symbolic clerical participation and indirect support of the local Church structures, and others are actually led or strongly influenced by local clergy. Involvement of clergy in various Christian nationalistic movements since the 19th century led to the development of particular form of Christian nationalism known as \"clerical nationalism\" (also known as clero-nationalism or clerico-nationalism). Some distinctive radicalized forms of clerical nationalism even led to the rise of clerical fascism on the far-right of the political spectrum in various European countries specially during the interwar period in the first half of 20th century.\n\nIn recent years there has been a growing sentiment of nationalism between both Catholics and Protestants in Brazil.\nPoliticians like Magno Malta and Jair Bolsonaro, and political parties like Patriota, until Jair Bolsonaro left the party, promote ultraconservative ideas, like rejection of LGBT rights, opposition to abortion, and anti-secularism.\nMost Christian nationalists in Brazil are in favor of ecumenism, while attacking and rejecting contact with non-Christians, more specifically Muslims and atheists.\n\nIn the background of World War I, German Christian nationalism was reflected by Lutheranism, romanticism, idealism, and Immanence.\n\nIn the background of World War I, British Christian nationalism was reflected by empiricism, realism, and individualism.\n\nThe Lebanese Front was a coalition of mainly Christian parties in the Lebanese Civil War. In the 1980s, Christian nationalism was pursued by the Maronite community. The Maronites sought to create a Christian mini-state. Christian nationalist Michel Aoun revolted against the Syrian Lebanese regime in 1990, but was defeated with Syrian Army support; all militias except pro-Syrian Hezbollah were disarmed by 1991.\n\nIn Poland, nationalism was always characterized by loyalty to the Roman Catholic Church. Groups like the National Revival of Poland use slogans like \"Wielka Polska Katolicka\" (Great Catholic Poland) and protest vigorously against legalization of gay marriage and abortion. Conservative religious groups connected with Radio Maryja are often accused of harboring nationalist and antisemitic attitudes.\n\nReligious nationalism characterized by communal adherence to Eastern Orthodoxy and national Orthodox Churches is found in many states of Eastern Europe and in the Russian Federation. Many Russian Neo-Fascist and Neo-Nazi groups, such as the Russian National Unity, call for an increased role for the Russian Orthodox Church.\n\nThe US movement was founded by Gerald L. K. Smith. It sold and distributed, \"inter alia\", \"The International Jew\", and subscribed to the antisemitic views embodied in \"The Protocols of the Elders of Zion\" which it also published. Founded in 1942, with the purpose to preserve America as a Christian nation being conscious of a highly organized campaign to substitute Jewish tradition for Christian tradition. Its purpose was also to oppose communism, one world government and immigration. It also aimed to fight interracial relationships and all attempts to force the intermixture of the black and white races. It was effectively a political party, and promoted antisemitic and racist causes, particularly in St. Louis from the 1940s through the 1950s.\n\nThe Yugoslav National Movement (1935–45) has been described as Christian nationalist.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13802770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13802770", "title": "Chronicle of Malaysia", "text": "Chronicle of Malaysia\n\nThe Chronicle of Malaysia gives an account of Malaysia from January 1957 to 31 August 2007. Published in conjunction with the 50th anniversary of Malaysian Independence, this book provides an account of major news events that occurred during this 50-year period. It covers the events as they unfolded in an eye-witness manner as if they were newspaper stories written at that time. These key events include the raising of the Malayan flag, the Emergency, the formation of Malaysia, the 1969 riots, political upheavals, the financial crisis, judicial cases of note, sport events, cultural developments, and miscellaneous aspects of daily life.\n\nThe Chronicle was launched on 5 November 2007 by Prime Minister Abdullah Ahmad Badawi.\n"}
{"id": "299663", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=299663", "title": "Compound document", "text": "Compound document\n\nIn computing, a compound document is a document type typically produced using word processing software, and is a regular text document intermingled with non-text elements such as spreadsheets, pictures, digital videos, digital audio, and other multimedia features. It can also be used to collect several documents into one.\n\nCompound document technologies are commonly utilized on top of a software componentry framework, but the idea of software componentry includes several other concepts apart from compound documents, and software components alone do not enable compound documents. Well-known technologies for compound documents include:\n\nThe first public implementation was on the Xerox Star workstation, released in 1981.\n\n"}
{"id": "4565772", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4565772", "title": "Development plan", "text": "Development plan\n\nA \"development plan\" is an aspect of town and country planning in the United Kingdom comprising a set of documents that set out the local authority's policies and proposals for the development and use of land in their area. The development plan guides and shapes day-to-day decisions as to whether or not planning permission should be granted, under the system known as \"development control\" or \"development management\" in Scotland. In order to ensure that these decisions are rational and consistent, they must be considered against the development plan adopted by the authority, after public consultation and having proper regard for other material factors.\n\nSection 38(6) of the Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004( replacing Section 25 of Town and Country Planning (Scotland) Act 1997 and Section 54A of the Town and Country Planning Act 1990) requires that decisions made should be in accordance with the development plan unless material considerations indicate otherwise. Although development plans do not have to be rigidly adhered to, they provide a firm basis for rational and consistent planning decisions.\n\nIn England and Wales, the development plan may contain a number of documents:\nCounties and most non-metropolitan unitary districts are covered by structure plans (in which the county, national park or unitary authority set out key strategic policies as a framework for local planning) and local plans (in which district councils and national park authorities set out more detailed policies to guide development in their areas, including proposals for specific sites). Structure plans may in some cases be prepared on a joint basis between two or more authorities (e.g. a county and a unitary authority or a national park).\n\nCounty, national park and some unitary authorities also prepare minerals and waste local plans are also deemed to be local plans.\n\nIn London and the metropolitan areas, and in a few non-metropolitan unitary areas, authorities produce unitary development plans (UDPs), which combine the functions of structure and local plans and include minerals and waste policies.\n\nLocal plans and UDPs identify particular areas as suitable for housing, industry, retail or other uses, and set out the policies which the authority proposes to apply in deciding whether or not development will be permitted. The preparation of Local Plans and UDPs gives the community the opportunity to influence the detailed policies and specific proposals for the future development and use of land in their area. Because the plan forms the statutory basis for planning decisions, local people are involved in its preparation.\n\nIn Scotland, following the passing of the Planning etc. (Scotland) Act 2006, the development plan comprises Strategic Development Plans (covering a number of city areas/urban authorities), Local Development Plans and statutory Supplementary Guidance. National Park Authorities in Scotland also act a Planning Authority for the development of planning policy, and the Loch Lomond and the Trossachs and the Cairngorms National Park Local Plans also form part of the wider development plan.\n\nIn India Development Plan process is a provincial/state subject. There are various town planning authorities under each province/state that assess the growth of areas, identify suitable areas for housing, industry, public infrastructure and allocate budgets. Each of the metropolitan cities in India has an Agency which is responsible for Development Planning exercise of the cities. Mumbai city has Mumbai Metropolitan Region Development Authority commonly known as \"MMRDA\". Similarly there is Delhi Development Authority for Delhi, Bangalore now called as Bengaluru has Bengaluru Development Authority, Kolkata has Kolkata Metropolitan Development Authority and there is Chennai Metropolitan Development Authority for the south Indian city of Chennai.\n\nThe Planning and Compulsory Purchase Act 2004 has introduced a number of additional documents that will eventually supersede those mentioned above.\nThese include:\n\n"}
{"id": "30315703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30315703", "title": "Dinocochlea", "text": "Dinocochlea\n\nDinocochlea ingens is a trace fossil specimen held in the Natural History Museum of London. It is a symmetrical helicospiral several metres in length that was famously unexplained until shown in 2009 to be a concretion formed around the burrow of a worm.\n\nFound in 1921 in the Wealden area of Sussex in England during construction of an arterial road, \"Dinocochlea\" was originally presumed to be a fossilised gastropod shell. As such, it was given a Latin name that translates to \"giant terrible snail\" using the \"dino-\" prefix in a nod to \"Dinosaur\" (\"terrible lizard\") and refers to the nearby, paleontologically significant, quarry that featured many dinosaur fossils, the \"\"Iguanodon\" Necropolis\". This name also gave rise to a second theory on the origin of the object - that it is a coprolite (fossilized animal dung). The gastropod theory is now considered incorrect on the basis that there were no shell traces, nor many of the features usually found in gastropod shells such as ridges, and coils tapering to a point. Furthermore, the size of \"Dinocochlea\" is much larger than any other gastropod living or extinct. The coprolite theory is also considered incorrect on the basis that partially digested organic material which would normally remain in the dung was not present. Also, whilst dung can be formed in a spiral (notably sharks due to their digestive system's spiral valve), the consistency of \"Dinocochlea\" makes this unlikely.\n\n\"Dinocochlea\" was donated to the British Museum (Natural History) (as it was known at the time, until the Natural History Museum's separation from the British Museum). However, in 1947 the Geologists' Association argued that the specimen was \"...taken from the excavations without permission\". \"Dinocochlea\" was featured in the final episode of the 2010 BBC series \"Museum of Life\" which documented the work of the Natural History Museum.\n\n"}
{"id": "4871932", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4871932", "title": "Double-Tongued Dictionary", "text": "Double-Tongued Dictionary\n\nThe Double-Tongued Dictionary is an online dictionary. It catalogs a growing lexicon of undocumented or under-documented words on the fringes of English, focusing on slang, jargon, and new words.\n\nFormerly known as the Double-Tongued Word , the dictionary strives to record terms and expressions that are omitted, or are poorly covered, in mainstream dictionaries. It also features definitions and citations of strange and unusual words or phrases such as \"parergon,\" \"epigenetics,\" and \"bleeding deacon.\"\n\nThe information on this site is compiled, written and edited by lexicographer Grant Barrett.\n\n"}
{"id": "30679435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30679435", "title": "Fireworks of Glass Tower and Ceiling", "text": "Fireworks of Glass Tower and Ceiling\n\nFireworks of Glass Tower and Ceiling, also known as Fireworks of Glass, is a blown glass sculpture installation in the permanent collection of The Children's Museum of Indianapolis located in Indianapolis, Indiana, United States of America. The tower sits on a glass base, a pergola ceiling, and rises through the center of the museum's spiraling ramp system. Created by Dale Chihuly in 2006, it is his largest permanently installed glass sculpture. Beneath the tower is an accompanying exhibit that describes the sculpture and the process by which it was made. The tower and pergola ceiling are two distinct accessioned objects in the Children's Museum's collection.\n\n\"Fireworks of Glass and Pergola Ceiling\" is a 43-foot tower composed of 3,200 pieces of red, yellow, and cobalt blue blown glass and a pergola ceiling made up of 1,600 pieces of multicolored glass. On the tower, two to four feet pieces of twisted glass are situated on a metal armature suspended by steel cables. The tower rests on a glass plate over a pergola ceiling filled with other pieces of glass. Each piece of glass was individually blown by a team of glassblowers based out of Chihuly's studio in Tacoma, Washington.\n\nThe installation is made up of the main tower, which is composed of Horny and Gooseneck-shaped glass pieces, and the pergola ceiling, an area underneath the artwork that serves as the ceiling for the \"Fireworks of Glass\" exhibit in the lower level of the museum. The ceiling includes 1,600 pieces of glass in some of Chihuly's favourite shapes such as Putti, Seaforms, and Persians. Other shapes represented in the ceiling are Gooseneck, Mexican hat, twisted horn, split leaf, sea tube, frog foot, starfish, and horn bale.\n\nAn interactive exhibit is located on the lower level of the museum below the pergola ceiling where the tower rests. Visitors can sit on circular, rotating benches in order to look up at the pergola ceiling and observe the colours, shapes, and the light interacting with the glass. The exhibit includes hands-on elements that allow visitors to build towers using plastic pieces of coloured shapes. Computer kiosks walk the user through the glassblowing process.\n\nAfter discussions with Children's Museum CEO Dr. Jeff Patchen in June 2001, Chihuly began sketching ideas for the tall, vertical space within the museum's ramp system. It took Chihuly and his team five years to plan and create \"Fireworks of Glass,\"which was inspired by the idea of an upside down chandelier. The sculpture cost a total of $4.5 million. The sculpture was unveiled on Saturday, 18 March 2006. Indianapolis Mayor Bart Peterson said of the installation, \"This one of a kind work of art will serve as an icon for cultural tourism for our city.\"\n\nInstallation of the sculpture began in January 2006. Under the direction of Chihuly, a team of glassblowers created the 4,800 glass pieces in Tacoma, Washington before shipping them to Indianapolis in 350 cardboard boxes. After completion of the glass base, three artists from Chihuly's team and six museum collections staff began carefully adding the glass pieces to the metal armature. A plastic tube was inserted into each piece of glass to protect it when placed on the armature and to hold it securely to the metal rods. It took 14 days for all 4,800 pieces of glass to be installed, 1,600 in the pergola ceiling and 3,200 in the tower. The team worked from the bottom of the tower to the top, using ladders and scaffolding as they went. They followed design plans created by Chihuly, but also had the freedom to make design decisions on site, depending on the surrounding museum environment.\n\nOver time, dust settles on the sculpture and dulls its color. Professionals come into the museum each month to dust the tower in order to restore it to its original color. Hanging from the ceiling, they are able to rappel down and reach every piece of glass. Museum staff also clean the base and lower glass pieces on a weekly basis.\n\n"}
{"id": "270059", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=270059", "title": "Flores Historiarum", "text": "Flores Historiarum\n\nThe Flores Historiarum (Flowers of History) is the name of two different (though related) Latin chronicles by medieval English historians that were created in the 13th century, associated originally with the Abbey of St Albans.\n\nThe first \"Flores Historiarum\" was created by St Albans writer, Roger of Wendover, who carried his chronology from the creation up to 1235, the year before his death. Roger claims in his preface to have selected \"from the books of catholic writers worthy of credit, just as flowers of various colours are gathered from various fields.\" Hence he also called his work \"Flores Historiarum\". However, like most chronicles, it is now valued not so much for what was culled from previous writers, as for its full and lively narrative of contemporary events from 1215 to 1235, including the signing of Magna Carta by King John at Runnymede.\n\nThe book has survived in one thirteenth-century manuscript in the Bodleian Library (Douce manuscript 207), a mutilated 14th century copy in the British Library (Cotton manuscript Otho B. v.), and in the version adapted by Matthew Paris which forms the first part of his \"Chronica Majora\" (ed. Henry Richards Luard, Rolls Series, seven volumes).\n\nThe sources brought together in the \"Flores\" include Bede, Geoffrey of Monmouth, Sigebert of Gembloux, Florence of Worcester, Simeon of Durham, William of Malmesbury, Henry of Huntingdon, Robert de Monte, William of Tyre, Ralph de Diceto, Benedictus Abbas, Roger of Hoveden and Ralph of Coggeshall (to 1194). A detailed list is given by Luard, who in his running text also marks up the apparent source of each section. From 1201 and through the reign of King John it draws on a source common between it and the \"Annales Sancti Edmundi\" later also used by John de Taxster, and also some annals added to the St. Albans copy of Diceto.\n\nThe date of creation of the earliest nucleus of the compilation has been disputed. The manuscript in the Bodleian Library, written out ca. 1300, contains a marginal note against the annal for 1188 that reads \"up to here in Abbot John's chronicle book\". Luard took this to mean that there had existed a core of the \"Flores\" going up to 1188, the creation of which had been supervised by John of Wallingford at some point during his tenure as abbot of St Albans between 1195 and 1214. On the other hand, 1188 is also when the first manuscript of Matthew Paris's \"Chronica Majora\" concludes, with the end of the reign of Henry II, so an alternative view is that this may have been the chronicle book referred to, which may have been in the possession of a later Abbot John at the turn of the 14th century when the manuscript was written out.\n\nConsidering the text itself, some of the earlier parts of the work draw heavily on the \"Historia scholastica\" (ca. 1173) of Petrus Comestor, a copy of which was not introduced into the monastery until John of Wallingford's abbacy. (Though Luard elsewhere notes some differences between the treatment of Comestor and that of some other writers). The work of Diceto, which is used throughout the \"Flores\" but especially after 1066, was also not copied for the Abbey until 1204. In its final form the annal for 1179 contains a reference to the Lateran Council of 1215, and Vaughan finds that all of the extant manuscripts ultimately descend from a common ancestral exemplar that can be no earlier than 1228. However, Vaughan does not rule out the possibility that there might have been some earlier compilation used by Wendover, and finds some evidence for such a compilation, extending perhaps to 1066.\n\nThe second and more widely distributed \"Flores Historiarum\" runs from the creation to 1326 (although some of the earlier manuscripts end at 1306). It was compiled by various persons and quickly acquired contemporary popularity, for it was continued by many hands in many manuscript traditions. Among twenty surviving manuscripts are those compiled at St Benet Holme, Norfolk, continued at Tintern Abbey (Royal Mss 14.c.6); at Norwich (Cottonian Claudius E 8); Rochester (Cottonian Nero D 2); St Paul's, London (Lambeth Mss 1106); St Mary's, Southwark (Bodleian Library, Rawlinson Mss B 177); and at St Augustine's, Canterbury (Harleian Mss 641).\n\nIt was written originally at St Albans Abbey and later at Westminster Abbey. The earliest manuscript, the basis for all the various continuations, was conserved in Chetham's Library, Manchester. This manuscript was carried down to 1265, with brief notes and emendations in the hand of Matthew Paris. A continuation carried the chronicle down to 1306; the continuation from 1306 to 1325/26 was compiled at Westminster by Robert of Reading (d. 1325) and another Westminster monk.\n\nThe second \"Flores Historiarum\" was for many years attributed to a \"Matthew of Westminster\" who Henry Richards Luard demonstrated was actually Matthew Paris.\n\nThe Flores Historiarum is markedly opposed to Robert the Bruce. According to the chronicle after Bruce had had himself crowned king of Scots in the spring of 1306, Lady Elisabeth Bruce tells her husband: \"I reckon that you are a summer king; perhaps you won't be a winter one\".\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4002246", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4002246", "title": "Fortune Battle of the Corporate Bands", "text": "Fortune Battle of the Corporate Bands\n\nThe FORTUNE Battle of the Corporate Bands is an annual music competition for amateur company-sponsored bands in the United States, Europe and Australia. Created in 2001, the contest's proceeds benefit the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in Cleveland, OH, which also serves as the location for the final round of the competition. The FORTUNE Battle of the Corporate Bands is presented through a partnership with FORTUNE magazine and the Rock Hall, and is sponsored by the NAMM Foundation (National Association of Music Merchants), Gibson Guitars, Marshall Fridge and Fender Premium Audio.\n\nThe competition is sometimes billed as a \"celebration of musicians with day jobs\". As of 2013, a requirement is that all participants must be employees of the submitting company.\n\nThe Battle of the Corporate Bands was developed as a joint effort between FORTUNE Magazine and the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame and Museum to enhance the Museum's profile in the business community. The two executives most responsible for its creation were Kip Meyer, Director of Integrated Programs for FORTUNE and FORTUNE Small Business magazines, and Steve Dobo, Director of Sponsorships and Promotions at the Rock Hall of Fame.\n\nThe competition serves multiple purposes. First, it serves as a fundraiser for the Museum's Educational Fund. In the 2007 contest, each entrant submitted a $200 entry fee, and each finalist's company donated $7,300 to take part in the final round. The Museum also earns contributions from the competition's corporate sponsors and from ticket sales.\n\nThe contest also provides increased exposure to the companies which sponsor the bands, via the media attention generated by the contest, and via recaps of the contest that appear in FORTUNE magazine.\n\nThe contest entry process begins early in the year, when bands submit a three-song CD to a panel of judges, typically due in late April. During the first three years of the contest, this panel selected the eight national finalists. For every year since then, the judging panel selects 18 US bands to participate in one of three qualifying US regional \"Battles\" which are held in the summer. Locations for the US regional contests vary from year to year—the 2007 regionals were held in Nashville, TN, Los Angeles, and Austin, TX. In 2008 a European regional was added for the first time, in London, UK. Six bands from around Europe are selected for the European regional.\n\nAt each regional event, each of the six bands performs a 20-minute set. The judges then choose two finalists from each US regional, plus the one winner of the European regional. After all of the regionals have been completed, the judges choose an additional one or two bands as \"wild card\" finalists, typically making eight finalists in all.\n\nIn some years, a finalist is included from Australia. Since 2004, Telstra, an Australian telecommunications and information services company, has sponsored their own national competition, called ROCKINC. The winner of ROCKINC is automatically entitled to a spot in the FORTUNE competition final.\n\nOn the day of the finals, held at the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame in October, each band performs a 30-minute non-judged showcase for the public during the day. That evening, each band plays a 15-minute set for a panel of music industry judges. The judges will then select a winner, dubbed \"The Best Corporate Band in America\" for that year, along with 2nd and 3rd-place winners.\n\nMembers of the winning band receive an expenses-paid trip to the annual NAMM Show, where they will be a featured performer. In 2007, Continental Airlines also awarded two airline tickets for each member of the winning band. The band also has its name and photo displayed at the Rock Hall of Fame for one year as part of a permanent exhibit honoring the event. The winning band also receives a \"gold record\" trophy, along with varsity jackets embroidered with their band's name and the contest logo. First-place bands are not allowed to enter the competition again.\n\nAwards are also given to individuals for Best Guitarist, Best Bass Player, Best Keyboardist, Best Vocalist, Best Horn and Best Drummer.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "40980781", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40980781", "title": "Fuel Retailers Association v Motor Industry Bargaining Council", "text": "Fuel Retailers Association v Motor Industry Bargaining Council\n\nIn Fuel Retailers Association of SA v Motor Industry Bargaining Council, an important case in South African labour law, the Fuel Retailers Association (FRA) tried more than once to join a bargaining council, but because the council took the view that the FRA was not sufficiently representative to meet the requirements of the constitution, the application was refused. The Labour Court held that, when considering whether or not to order the admission of the new member, it had to consider the following:\n\n\nOther relevant factors include\n\n\nThe Labour Court also considered any possible contribution to the organisational diversity of the council within its sector and area, the threshold for admission and other requirements of the constitution of the bargaining council.\n\nThe court concluded that the FRA should be admitted as a new member, and made an order to that effect.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8654595", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8654595", "title": "Ganlu Zishu", "text": "Ganlu Zishu\n\nGanlu Zishu ( \"Character Book for Seeking an Official Emolument\") is a Chinese orthography dictionary of the Tang Dynasty. The first surviving orthographical dictionary for the regular script, it was authored by Yan Yuansun (顏元孫), a descendant of the famous scholar Yan Shigu. It is roughly based on Yan Shigu's work \"Ziyang\" (字樣 \"Character Samples\"), now surviving only in fragments. It was meant to be an official guide for the use of those who took the Imperial examination, thus the title \"Ganlu\", an allusion to the \"Analects\" (2:18).\n\nThe work comprises about 800 characters (excluding variants). The characters are collated by tone and rime (approximately those used in \"Qieyun\"). The variants of a character are divided into three types: the \"standard\" (正 \"zheng\"), the \"acceptable\" (通 \"tong\") and the \"vulgar\" (俗 \"su\"). Not every character has all the three types of variant. The examinees were supposed to use the \"standard\" form of a character.\n\nThe text was carved on stone with the calligraphy of Yan Zhenqing, nephew of Yan Yuansun. The stone has worn out, though.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4370821", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4370821", "title": "Gesta principum Polonorum", "text": "Gesta principum Polonorum\n\nThe Gesta principum Polonorum () is a medieval \"gesta\", or deeds narrative, concerned with Duke Bolesław III Wrymouth, his ancestors, and the Polish principality during and before his reign. Probably completed between 1112 and 1118, the extant text is present in three manuscripts with two distinct traditions. Its author, though anonymous, is traditionally called Gallus (a name which means \"Irish\") probably a non-Pole connected with the monastery of Saint-Gilles or elsewhere in western Europe.\n\nThe book is one of the earliest written documents on the history of Poland, but also gives a unique Eastern European perspective on the general history of Europe, supplementing what has been handed down by Western and Southern European historians. It pre-dates the \"Gesta Danorum\" and the next major source on early history of Poland, the \"Chronica seu originale regum et principum Poloniae\", by roughly a century.\n\nThe title intended for or originally given to the work is not clear. In the initial capital of the text in the Zamoyski Codex, a rubric styles the work the \"Cronica Polonorum\", while in the same manuscript the preface of Book I opens with \"Incipiunt Cronice et gesta ducum sive principum Polonorum\" (\"[Here] begins the chronicles and deeds of the dukes or princes of the Poles\"). The incipit for Book II entitles the work \"Liber Tertii Bolezlaui\" (\"Book of Bolesław III\"), and that for Book III \"Liber de Gestis Boleslaui III\" (\"Book of the Deeds of Bolesław III\"). These however are not reliable as such things are often added later.\n\nThe latest editors and only English translators of the text style it \"Gesta principum Polonorum\" (\"the deeds of the princes of the Poles\"), primarily to acknowledge its faith with the \"gesta\" genre (and the likely authenticity of this part of the title) and to avoid confusion with the later work known as the \"Chronica principum Poloniae\" (\"chronicle of the princes of Poland\").\n\nThe author of the \"Gesta\" is unknown, but is referred to by historigraphic convention as \"Gallus\", a Latin word for a \"person from France or Gaul\" (though also, potentially, a forename). The only source for \"Gallus\"' existence comes not from the text but rather from a note made by historian and Bishop of Warmia Martin Kromer (1512–89) in the margin of folio 119 of the \"Heilsberg manuscript\". It is not known why Bishop Kromer called the author \"Gallus\".\n\nIn Gottfried Lengnich's printed edition, Lengnich named the author as \"Martin Gallus\" based on a misreading of Jan Długosz, where Gallus was conflated with Martin of Opava. Martin Gallus became the standard name in German scholarship for some time to come, though this identification is now rejected by most historians. Historian Maximilian Gumplowicz identified the author as Baldwin Gallus, allegedly Bishop of Kruszwica, though likewise this theory has failed to gain general acceptance.\n\nThere have been frequent attempts to identify Gallus' origins from clues in the text . Marian Plezia and Pierre David both argued that Gallus came from Provence in what is now southern France, and was closely connected with the Benedictine monastery of Saint-Gilles. Another historian, Karol Maleczyński, argued that the evidence suggests a connection with Flanders, while Danuta Borawska and Tomasz Jasiński have argued based on stylistic evidence that he was connected with Venice and that he authored an anonymous \"translatio\" of St Nicholas. Marian Plezia argued in 1984 that his writing style suggests an education in one of the schools of central France, likely Tours or Orléans.\n\nPlezia and others further argue that Gallus' extensive knowledge of Hungary testify to connections there, postulating a connection to the Benedictine monastery of Somogyvár in Hungary, a daughter-house of St Gilles'. He appears to have been closely connected to the Awdańcy clan, a kindred of Norse or Rus origin who had been successful under Boleslaw II, and who had been exiled to Hungary but returned to prominence in Polish affairs during the reign of Boleslaw III. As he stated that \"the city of Gniezno ... means \"nest\" in Slavic\", it is thought that the author may have known the language of the country. All that is certain is that he was a monk and a non-Slav living in Poland, perhaps on a Polish benefice.\n\nGenerally, it is thought that the original text was composed at some point between 1112 and 1117. The dedicatory letter on the preface of the \"Gesta\" fixes completion of the origin text between 1112 and 1118. The last event mentioned in the work is the pilgrimage of Boleslaw III to Székesfehérvár in Hungary, which occurred in either 1112 or 1113. The work was almost certainly completed before the revolt of Skarbimir in 1117–18. There is some evidence that several interpolations were added subsequently. For instance, there is reference to the descendants of Duke Swietobor of Pomerania (ii.29).\n\nThe \"Gesta\" is not extant in the original, but instead survives in three different manuscripts representing two different traditions. The Codex Zamoyscianus (Z) and Codex Czartoryscianus (S) represent the first, and earliest documented tradition, the latter being derived from the former. The Heilsberg codex, though later and surviving in less detail, is an independent witness to the text and constitutes the second distinct tradition.\n\nThe earliest version lies in the manuscript known as the \"Codex Zamoyscianus\" or \"Zamoyski Codex\". This was written down in the late 14th-century, probably in Kraków between 1380 and 1392. It was located in the library of the Łaski family until the 15th century. Thereabouts Sandivogius (Sędziwój) of Czechłoj (d. 1476), a canon of Gniezno Cathedral and friend of the historian Jan Długosz, came into possession of it. It was later in the library of the counts of Zamość, but is now in the National Library in Warsaw as \"Ms. BOZ cim. 28\".\n\nA second version of the \"Gesta\" lies in the \"Codex Czartoryscianus\", also called the \"Sędziwój Codex\". Between 1434 and 1439 Sandivogius of Czechło had a second copy made for him, produced from the version in the \"Codex Zamoyscianus\". As it is a direct copy, its usefulness is limited in reconstructing the original text. This version currently lies in the Czartoryski Museum of Kraków, \"Ms. 1310\", fols. 242–307.\n\nThe third and latest witness to the text is the version in the so-called Heilsberg Codex. This version was written down between 1469 and 1471, based on an earlier version. The latter had been written at Kraków around 1330, was in Łekno monastery (Greater Poland) in 1378, and had been transferred to the monastery at Trzemeszno before coming into the hands of Martin Kromer, Bishop of Warmia (1579–1589).\n\nBetween the mid-16th century and the 18th century, the manuscript was located in the German-speaking Prussian town of Heilsberg (today the Polish town of Lidzbark Warmiński), hence the name. Unlike the version in the \"Codex Czartoryscianus\", this is an independent witness to the original text. It is currently in the National Library in Warsaw as \"Ms. 8006\", fols. 119–247.\n\nThe Heilsberg text omits large sections of text present in the other two manuscripts, for instance omitting several chapters like 27 and 28 in Book I.\n\nThe text of the \"Gesta\" was printed for the first time in 1749, when an edition based on the Heilsberg Codex was published by Gottfried Lengnich, reprinted two decades later by Laurence Mizler de Kolof, and has since been printed in many editions.\n\n\nJan Wincenty Bandtkie, who also used Heilsberg, was the first to utilise the Codex Zamoyscianus tradition. As the Heilsberg Codex was \"lost\" between the 1830s and the 1890s, texts in this period make no original use of it. Finkel & Kętrzyński's 1898 edition likewise makes no use of Heilsberg. Julian Krzyżanowski produced the first facsimile in the 1940s, while in the 1950s Karol Maleczyński's edition was the first to collate all three manuscripts.\n\nThe text has been fully translated several times. It was translated into Polish by Roman Grodescki by 1923, though this was not published until 1965. There was a Russian translation in 1961, a German translation in 1978 and an English translation in 2003.\n\nThe work begins with an address and dedication to Martin, Archbishop of Gniezno, and to the bishops of Poland's regions, Simon (Bishop of Plock, c. 1102–29), Paul (Bishop of Poznań, 1098–c. 1112), Maurus (Bishop of Kraków, 1110–18) and Zyroslaw (Bishop of Wroclaw, 1112–20). Thomas Bisson argued that the text was primarily written in the \"gesta\" genre of Latin literature as a celebration of Duke Boleslaw III Wrymouth, defending his actions and legimizing his dynasty (compare the near-contemporary \"Deeds of Louis the Fat\").\n\nThe work is divided into three books, focused on genealogy, politics and warfare. Book one, of 31 chapters, treats the deeds of the ancestors of Boleslaw III (beginning with the legendary Piast the Wheelwright), and their wars against the Germans and Slavic peoples such as the Rus, the Bohemians, the Pomeranians and the Mazovians. The first Book claims to rely on oral tradition, and is largely legendary in character until the reign of Mieszko I. The earlier material tells of the rises of the Piasts from peasants to ruler, a tale common in early Slavonic folk-myth.\n\nBook two, of 50 chapters, traces the birth of Boleslaw, his boyhood deeds and documents the wars waged by himself and \"count palatine\" Skarbimir against the Pomeranians. Book three, of 26 chapters, continues the story of the wars waged by Boleslaw and the Poles against the Pomeranians, the war against the German emperor Heinrich V and the Bohemians, and against the Baltic Prussians.\n\n"}
{"id": "26896506", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26896506", "title": "Ghosts in Spanish-speaking cultures", "text": "Ghosts in Spanish-speaking cultures\n\nThere are many stories of ghosts in Spanish-speaking cultures. The Spanish language is second only in number of native speakers to Mandarin Chinese, the tongue of over 360 million people. Ghost stories exist throughout Spanish-speaking America and in Spain.\n\nIn the Pampas, and particularly in Carro Quemado, the ghost of a colonel on horseback galloping in search of his soldiers killed by the Indians appears from time to time.\n\nIn a dwelling in Neuquén in the Patagonia region of Argentina, there are sudden strange fires that the fire department is unable to explain, and in which some have seen ghost appearances.\n\nIn the city of Buenos Aires is said that in the church \"St. Felicitas\", located between Finch Street and Isabel La Católica, you can spot the ghost of Felicitas Guerrero and that if a tissue is left in the church at night, the next day it appears bathed with tears.\n\nThere is extensive and varied belief in ghosts in Mexican culture. The modern state of Mexico before the Spanish conquest was inhabited by diverse peoples such as the Maya and Aztec, and their beliefs have survived and evolved, combined with the beliefs of the Spanish colonists. The Day of the Dead incorporates pre-Columbian beliefs with Christian elements. Mexican literature and movies include many stories of ghosts interacting with the living.\n\nGhosts that appear on the second floor of Casa Matusita in downtown Lima, at the intersection of Avenues Spain and Garcilaso de la Vega, seem to be particularly intense, including poltergeists and apparitions, and it is said that the Argentine comedian Humberto Vera Vilchez was driven mad there. The legend is that a man lived in this house who mistreated his two servants. One day, when he offered a lunch to some guests, the servants decided to get revenge and put a substance in food, not to kill his boss, but to cause mental disorders. After serving and while awaiting results of their macabre plan, they suddenly heard noises and screams coming from the room and came back. The picture was terrifying: mangled bodies everywhere, blood on the walls, on the table, on the ground, all the guests, including his boss, had found a tragic death, violent and terrifying. The curious thing about this house is that the paranormal events happen on the second floor and therefore the first floor is rented. It is said that no one can spend five minutes there.\n\nThe Castillo Real Felipe is located in the city of El Callao port of the capital Lima.\nAmong other legends are that the ghost of an eighteenth-century viceroy appears every night on the stairs and rooms of the castle dungeons, leading many soldiers. Also, chilling screams are heard in the dungeons.\n\nThe Galician Santa Compaña Guestier Asturian or Estadea, Estantiga or phantom Castilian is an ancient procession of candle-lit ghosts that gives very bad luck and portends death, like the banshee in Ireland.\n\nLa Velilla bell has long sounded in Aragon with nobody touching it to warn of the deaths and deaths of notable people, kings, emperors and so on. Father Benito Jerónimo Feijóo y Montenegro attempted to rationalize the fact without getting much clearer.\n\nThe House of Seven Chimneys of Madrid is haunted by the ghost of a young bride who died of sorrow when her husband, a young captain, died in the Battle of San Quentin. In the same place his father committed suicide by hanging himself in one of the beams of the mansion. It is said that she was the mistress of the king, who sent her husband into battle to die, and subsequently the father imprisoned the young woman to commit incest. A white lady appears bearing a torch on certain nights. There is also talk of a girl married to a rich old man who was stabbed to death in his basement.\n\nOn the island of Tenerife lies the \"Lercaro Palace\", now the Museum of the History of Tenerife, located in the city of San Cristóbal de La Laguna. In this mansion legend appears the ghost of Catalina Lercaro, who according to legend committed suicide by throwing herself into a well of her mansion when she was forced to marry a man she did not love. It is one of the most famous ghost stories in Spain.\n\nOn Monasterio de Madrid street there is an antiquarian shop, \"El baúl del monje\", in a house where a lawyer was killed earlier in a violent fire. When renovations were undertaken in 1998 of the most violent poltergeist episodes occurred to have been documented in Spain: lamps moved, objects and statues moved and collided, doors slammed, there were strange noises, furniture was placed in the corridor to block passage, and out of circulation coins, buttons, broken glass and chunks of charred wood fell from the roof. Electromagnetic distortions cancelled the Earth's magnetic field, bringing it to zero.\n\nPerhaps the first documented case of poltergeists in Spain was in 1724, when the doctor and writer Diego de Torres Villarroel went called to the house of the Countess of Arcos, located on Fuencarral to witness a paranormal phenomenon. He himself wrote in his life: \"I can assure that for fifteen nights I was sleepless and restless, I heard horrible noises ... so out of natural order, such as the pictures being taken down without falling from the nail or the ring, locked doors being opened, plates rolling without breaking ...\" All the servants had locked themselves away from fear of suffering from the phenomena, which consisted of repeated blows and movements of objects. The poet watched the fall of several tables in a room. He could not find the source of these sounds, although it was clear that this was not a joke.\n\nThe Conde Estruch is a Spanish-Catalan version of Count Dracula, but since the Castillo de Llers was destroyed in the Civil War, he has nowhere to appear.\n\nSevilla is a city with a rich history that also has quite a few ghosts. The best documented is that of Sister Ursula, a nun of the Order of Charity who appears in the Hospital of the Five Wounds, a Renaissance building which now houses the Parliament of Andalusia. Wander through the corridors of the building and frequent sick room and the old sacristy. The Diputación de Sevilla ghosts wander the corridors of the old barracks. No one dares to walk along the Green Street last Friday night of each month, where there is a narrow passage from the old Jewish quarter. There is also a gentleman in a cloak and ruff inhabiting the high street pharmacy Franks.\n\nOn the palace of the Plaza de Santa Eulalia in Murcia a woman appears every night on the roof screaming terrible cries. In the eleventh century, the Saavedra family lived in the palace and the wife of one of the aristocrats was unfaithful.\n\nOn the Castillo de la Concepción in Cartagena a woman appears at night who was sandwiched between the walls. Cries are in the drains of the municipal library Sewer in the evenings. The building was headquarters of the Inquisition in the eighteenth century.\n\nIn the former tuberculosis sanatorium in Sierra Espuña, closed in 1962, the ghost of a woman appears and Poltergeist phenomena occur such as windows and doors closing suddenly.\n\nIn the palace of the Servants of Jesus Street (Murcia), a nobleman beheaded a novice whom he loved. Since then, strange phenomena occur.\n\nIn the Murcia coast several ghosts have been seen, such as a Russian princess who was killed by the owner of the Isla del Barón, or the ghost ship that according to the fishermen have seen in the early hours of the Virgin.\n\nThe Cornudilla is a ghost town that belongs to the town of Requena, very close to the villages of Marcos and Ruices. During the fifties there was a lot of paranormal activity there, especially in The House of Noise, of which now only some walls are left standing.\n\nIn the pub \"El Granero\" in the city of Granada a monk named Lorenzo appears. It is in part of the Palacio de Abrantes, which was built in the sixteenth century.\n\nThe Silbón (Warbler) according to legend is the ghost of a young man who killed his father to eat his offal, and is therefore doomed to wander like a lost soul forever carrying a bag filled with his family's bones. The ghost was named for its distinctive whistle, an omen of death.\nA version of the legend in the eastern plains of Colombia says the Silbón is a lost soul of a womanizer who died alone and abandoned and seeks company. Another version says he chases pregnant women, delivering a long, sharp whistle that creates an intense cold that enters through the ears and freezes people. When the whistle is sharp a woman will die, but if it is blurred, a man dies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50502975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50502975", "title": "Hannah Johnson Howell", "text": "Hannah Johnson Howell\n\nHannah Johnson Howell (22 June 1905 – 21 May 1988) was the third Chief Librarian of the Frick Art Reference Library.\n\nHowell graduated from Penn College, Oskaloosa, Iowa in 1925. She received a Bachelor of Philosophy from the University Chicago in 1927 and a graduate degree from the school of Library Service at Columbia University in 1928.\n\nIn 1928, the year of her graduation from library school, Howell began her career at the Frick Art Reference Library. She originally worked in the Photoarchive, but later became the reference librarian of the Library's reading room. After serving as an assistant librarian from 1942–1947, Howell was appointed the third Chief Librarian of the Library in 1948. She held the position until 1970. During her tenure, the Frick Art Reference Library dramatically increased its collection of materials, including its holdings of study photographs. After her retirement from the Library, she worked as a consultant librarian.\n\n"}
{"id": "16499892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16499892", "title": "Icones Plantarum", "text": "Icones Plantarum\n\nIcones Plantarum is an extensive series of published volumes of botanical illustration, initiated by Sir William Jackson Hooker. The Latin name of the work means \"Illustrations of Plants\". The illustrations are drawn from herbarium specimens of Hooker's herbarium, and subsequently the herbarium of Kew Gardens. Hooker was the author of the first ten volumes, produced 1837-1854. His son, Sir Joseph Dalton Hooker, was responsible for Volumes XI-XIX (most of Series III). Daniel Oliver was the editor of Volumes XX-XXIV. His successor was William Turner Thiselton-Dyer. The series now comprises forty volumes.\n\n"}
{"id": "174527", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=174527", "title": "J. Paul Getty", "text": "J. Paul Getty\n\nJean Paul Getty (; December 15, 1892 – June 6, 1976), known widely as J. Paul Getty, was a British American petrol-industrialist, and the patriarch of the Getty family. He founded the Getty Oil Company, and in 1957 \"Fortune\" magazine named him the richest living American, while the 1966 \"Guinness Book of Records\" named him as the world's richest private citizen, worth an estimated $1.2 billion (approximately $ billion in 2017). At his death, he was worth more than $6 billion (approximately $ billion in 2017). A book published in 1996 ranked him as the 67th richest American who ever lived, based on his wealth as a percentage of the concurrent gross national product.\n\nDespite his vast wealth, Getty was famously frugal, notably negotiating his grandson's Italian kidnapping ransom in 1973.\n\nGetty was an avid collector of art and antiquities; his collection formed the basis of the J. Paul Getty Museum in Los Angeles, California, and over $661 million (approximately $ billion in 2017) of his estate was left to the museum after his death. He established the J. Paul Getty Trust in 1953. The trust is the world's wealthiest art institution, and operates the J. Paul Getty Museum Complexes: The Getty Center, The Getty Villa and the Getty Foundation, the Getty Research Institute, and the Getty Conservation Institute.\n\nGetty was born into an Irish-Scots family in Minneapolis, Minnesota, to Sarah Catherine McPherson (Risher) and George Getty, who was an attorney in the insurance industry. Paul was raised to be a Methodist by his parents, his father was a devout Christian Scientist and both were strict teetotalers. In 1903, when Paul was 10 years old, George Getty travelled to Bartlesville, Oklahoma, and bought the mineral rights for 1,100 acres of land. Within a few years Getty had established wells on the land which were producing 100,000 barrels of crude oil a month.\n\nAs newly-minted millionaires, the family moved to Los Angeles to escape the harsh Minnesota winters. At age 14 Paul attended Harvard Military School for a year, followed by Polytechnic High School, where he was given the nickname \"Dictionary Getty\" because of his love of reading. He became fluent in French, German and Italian - over the course of his business life he would also become conversational in Spanish, Greek, Arabic and Russian. A love of the Classics also led him to acquire reading proficiency in Ancient Greek and Latin. He enrolled at the University of Southern California, then at the University of California, Berkeley, but left both before obtaining a degree. Enamored with Europe after travelling abroad with his parents in 1910, on November 28, 1912, Paul enrolled at the University of Oxford. A letter of introduction by then-President of the United States William Howard Taft enabled him to gain independent instruction from tutors at Magdalen College. Although he did not belong to Magdalen, he claimed that the aristocratic students \"accepted me as one of their own\", and he would fondly boast of the friends he made, including Edward VIII, the future King of the United Kingdom and Emperor of India. He obtained his degree in Economics and Political Science in 1914, then spent months travelling throughout Europe and Egypt, before meeting his parents in Paris and returning with them to America in June 1914.\n\nIn the autumn of 1914, George Getty gave his son $10,000 to invest in expanding the family's oil field holdings in Oklahoma. The first lot he bought, the Nancy Taylor No. 1 Oil Well Site near Haskell, Oklahoma, was crucial to his early financial success. It struck oil in August 1915 and by the next summer the 40% net production royalty he accrued from it had made him a millionaire.\n\nIn 1919, Getty returned to business in Oklahoma. During the 1920s, he added about $3 million to his already sizable estate. His succession of marriages and divorces (three during the 1920s, five throughout his life) so distressed his father, however, that J. Paul inherited a mere $500,000 (approximately $ million in 2017) of the $10 million fortune (approximately $ million in 2017) his father George had left at the time of his death in 1930. He was left with one-third of the stock from George Getty Inc., while his mother received the other two thirds, giving her a controlling interest.\n\nIn 1936, his mother convinced him to contribute to the establishment of a $3.368 million (about $62.5 million in 2018) investment trust, called the Sarah C. Getty Trust, to ensure that the family's ever-growing wealth could be channeled into a tax-free, secure income for future generations of the Getty family. The trust enabled J. Paul to have easy access to ready capital, which at the time he was funneling into the purchase of Tidewater Petroleum stock.\n\nShrewdly investing his resources during the Great Depression, Getty acquired Pacific Western Oil Corporation, and he began the acquisition (completed in 1953) of the Mission Corporation, which included Tidewater Oil and Skelly Oil. In 1967 the billionaire merged these holdings into Getty Oil.\n\nBeginning in 1949, Getty paid Ibn Saud $9.5 million (approximately $ million in 2017) in cash and $1 million a year for a 60-year concession to a tract of barren land near the border of Saudi Arabia and Kuwait. No oil had ever been discovered there, and none appeared until four years had passed, and $30 million (approximately $ million in 2017) had been spent. From 1953 onward, Getty's gamble produced a year, which contributed greatly to the fortune responsible for making him one of the richest people in the world.\n\nGetty increased the family wealth, learning to speak Arabic, which enabled his unparalleled expansion into the Middle East. Getty owned the controlling interest in nearly 200 businesses, including Getty Oil. Associates identified his overall wealth at between $2 billion and $4 billion. It didn't come easily, perhaps inspiring Getty's widely quoted remark—\"The meek shall inherit the earth, but not its mineral rights.\" J. Paul Getty was an owner of Getty Oil, Getty Inc., George F. Getty Inc., Pacific Western Oil Corporation, Mission Corporation, Mission Development Company, Tidewater Oil, Skelly Oil, Mexican Seaboard Oil, Petroleum Corporation of America, Spartan Aircraft Company, Spartan Cafeteria Company, Minnehoma Insurance Company, Minnehoma Financial Company, Pierre Hotel at Fifth Avenue and East 61st Street (NYC), Pierre Marques Hotel at Revolcadero Beach near Acapulco, Mexico, a 15th-century palace and nearby castle at Ladispoli on the coast northwest of Rome, a Malibu ranch home and Sutton Place, a 72-room mansion near Guildford, Surrey, 35 miles from London.\n\nHe moved to Britain in the 1950s and became a prominent admirer of England, its people, and its culture. He lived and worked at his 16th-century Tudor estate, Sutton Place; the traditional country house became the centre of Getty Oil and his associated companies and he used the estate to entertain his British and Arabian friends (including the British Rothschild family and numerous rulers of Middle Eastern countries). Getty lived the rest of his life in England, dying of heart failure at the age of 83 on June 6, 1976.\n\nGetty's first forays into collecting began in the late 1930s, when he took inspiration from the collection of 18th-century French paintings and furniture owned by the landlord of his New York City penthouse, Mrs. Amy Guest, a relation of Sir Winston Churchill. He fell in love with 18th-century France and began buying furniture from the period at knock-down prices because of the still-depressed art market. He wrote several books on collecting: \"Europe and the 18th Century\" (1949), \"Collector's Choice: The Chronicle of an Artistic Odyssey through Europe\" (1955) and \"The Joys of Collecting\" (1965). The overwhelming goal in his collecting was to buy items at a bargain which would offer a sure return on his investment. His stinginess limited the range of his collecting because he refused to pay full-price: his companion in later life, Penelope Kitson, would comment that \"Paul was really too mean ever to allow himself to buy a great painting.\" Nonetheless, at the time of his death he owned more than 600 items valued at over $4 million (approximately $17.5 million in 2018 USD), including paintings by Rubens, Titian, Gainsborough, Renoir, Tintoretto, Degas, and Monet. During the 1950s, Getty's interests shifted to Greco-Roman sculpture, which led to the building of the Getty Villa in the 1970s to house the collection. These items were transferred to the Getty Museum and the Getty Villa in Los Angeles after his death.\n\nGetty was a notorious womanizer from the time of his youth, something which horrified his conservative Christian parents. His lawyer Robin Lund once said that \"Paul could hardly ever say 'no' to a woman, or 'yes' to a man.\" Lord Beaverbrook had called him \"Priapic\" and \"ever-ready\" in his sexual habits.\n\nIn 1917, when he was 25, a paternity suit was filed against Getty in Los Angeles by Elsie Eckstrom, who claimed he was the father of her newborn daughter Paula. Eckstrom claimed that Getty had taken her virginity and fathered the child, while his legal team tried to undermine her credibility by claiming that she had a history of promiscuity. In late 1917 he agreed to a settlement of $10,000, upon which she left town with the baby and was never heard of again.\n\nGetty was married and divorced five times. He had five sons with four of his wives:\n\nAt age 99, in 2013, Getty's fifth wife, Louise—now known as Teddy Getty Gaston—published a memoir reporting how Getty had scolded her for spending money too freely in the 1950s on the treatment of their six-year-old son, Timmy, who had become blind from a brain tumor. Timmy died at age 12, and Getty, living in England apart from his wife and son back in the U.S., did not attend the funeral. Teddy divorced him that year. Teddy Gaston died in April 2017 at the age of 103.\n\nGetty was quoted as saying \"A lasting relationship with a woman is only possible if you are a business failure\", and \"I hate to be a failure. I hate and regret the failure of my marriages. I would gladly give all my millions for just one lasting marital success.\"\n\nOn July 10, 1973, in Rome, 'Ndrangheta kidnappers abducted Getty's 16-year-old grandson, John Paul Getty III, and demanded by telephone a $17 million payment (approximately $ million in 2017) for the young man's safe return. However, \"the family suspected a ploy by the rebellious teenager to extract money from his miserly grandfather.\" John Paul Getty Jr. asked his father for the money, but was refused.\n\nIn November 1973, an envelope containing a lock of hair and a human ear arrived at a daily newspaper. The second demand had been delayed three weeks by an Italian postal strike. The demand threatened that Paul would be further mutilated unless the victims paid $3.2 million (approximately $ million in 2017): \"This is Paul's ear. If we don't get some money within 10 days, then the other ear will arrive. In other words, he will arrive in little bits.\"\n\nWhen the kidnappers finally reduced their demands to $3 million (approximately $ million in 2017), Getty senior agreed to pay no more than $2.2 million (approximately $ million in 2017) – the maximum that would be tax-deductible. He lent his son the remaining $800,000 (approximately $ million in 2017) at 4% interest. Paul III was found alive in a Lauria filling station, in the province of Potenza, shortly after the ransom was paid. After his release Paul III called his grandfather to thank him for paying the ransom but, it is claimed, Getty refused to come to the phone. Nine people associated with 'Ndrangheta were later arrested for the kidnapping, but only two were convicted. Paul III was permanently affected by the trauma and became a drug addict. After a stroke brought on by a cocktail of drugs and alcohol in 1981, Paul III was rendered speechless, nearly blind and partially paralyzed for the rest of his life. He died 30 years later on February 5, 2011, at the age of 54.\n\nGetty defended his initial refusal to pay the ransom on two points. First, he argued that to submit to the kidnappers' demands would immediately place his other fourteen grandchildren at the risk of copy-cat kidnappers. He added:\n\nMany anecdotal stories exist of Getty's reputed thriftiness and parsimony, which struck observers as comical, even perverse, because of his extreme wealth. The two most widely known examples are his reluctance to pay his grandson's $17 million Italian kidnapping ransom, and the notorious pay-phone which he had installed at Sutton Place. A darker incident was his fifth wife's claim that Getty had scolded her for spending too much on their terminally ill son's medical treatment, though he was worth tens of millions of dollars at the time. He was well known for bargaining on almost everything to obtain a rock-bottom price, including suites at luxury hotels and virtually all purchases like art work and real estate. Sutton Place, for instance, a 72-room mansion, was purchased from George Sutherland-Leveson-Gower, 5th Duke of Sutherland in 1959 for the extremely low price of ₤60,000, about half of what the Duke had paid when he bought it 40 years earlier.\n\n\nAuthor John Pearson attributed part of this extreme penny-pinching to the Methodist sensibility of Getty's upbringing, which emphasized modest living and personal economy. His business-like attention to the bottom-line was also a major factor: \"He would allow himself no self-indulgence in the purchase of a place to live, a work of art, even a piece of furniture, unless he could convince himself that it would appreciate in value.\"\n\nGetty famously had a pay phone installed at Sutton Place, helping to seal his reputation as a miser. Getty placed dial-locks on all the regular telephones, limiting their use to authorized staff, and the coin-box telephone was installed for others. In his autobiography, he described his reasons:\n\nWhen speaking in a televised interview with Alan Whicker in February 1963, Getty said that he thought guests would want to use a payphone. After 18 months, Getty explained, \"The in-and-out traffic flow at Sutton subsided. Management and operation of the house settled into a reasonable routine. With that, the pay-telephone [was] removed, and the dial-locks were taken off the telephones in the house.\"\n\nOn June 30, 1960, Getty threw a 21st birthday party for a relation of his friend, the 16th Duke of Norfolk, which served as a housewarming party for the newly-purchased Sutton Place. 1,200 guests consisting of the cream of British society were invited. Party goers were irritated by Getty's stinginess, such as not providing cigarettes and relegating everyone to using creosote portable toilets outside. At about 10pm the party descended into pandemonium as party crashers arrived from London, swelling the already overcrowded halls, causing an estimated ₤20,000 in damages. A valuable silver ewer by the 18th century silversmith Paul de Lamerie was stolen, but returned anonymously when the London newspapers began covering the theft. The failure of the event made the newly-arrived Getty the object of ridicule, and he never threw another large party again.\n\nGetty remained an inveterate hard worker, boasting at age 74 that he often worked 16 to 18 hours per day overseeing his operations across the world. The Arab-Israeli Yom Kippur War of October 1973 caused a worldwide oil shortage for years to come. In this period, the value of Getty Oil shares quadrupled, with Getty enjoying personal earnings of $25.8 million in 1975 (appr. $120 million in 2018 USD).\n\nHis insatiable appetite for women and sex also continued well into his 80s. He used an experimental drug, \"H3\", to maintain his potency. Getty met the English interior designer Penelope Kitson in the 1950s and entrusted her with decorating his homes and the public rooms of the oil tankers he was launching. From 1960 she resided in a cottage on the grounds of Sutton Place, and, though she did not have a sexual relationship with him, Getty held her in high respect and trust. Other mistresses who resided at Sutton Place included the married Mary Teissier, a distant cousin of the last Tsar of Russia, Lady Ursula d'Abo, who had close connections to the British Royal Family, and Nicaraguan-born Rosabella Burch.\n\n\"The New York Times\" wrote of Getty's domestic arrangement that: \"[Getty] ended his life with a collection of desperately hopeful women, all living together in his Tudor mansion in England, none of them aware that his favorite pastime was rewriting his will, changing his insultingly small bequests: $209 a month to one, $1,167 to another.\" Only Penelope Kitson received a handsome bequest upon Getty's death: 5,000 Getty Oil shares (appr. $826,500 in 1976), which doubled in value during the 1980s, and a $1,167 monthly income.\n\nGetty died June 6, 1976, in Sutton Place near Guildford, Surrey, England. He was buried in Pacific Palisades, Los Angeles County, California at the Getty Villa. The gravesite is not open to the public.\n\nThe 2017 film \"All the Money in the World\"directed by Ridley Scott and adapted from the book \"Painfully Rich: The Outrageous Fortunes and Misfortunes of the Heirs of J. Paul Getty\" by John Pearsonis a dramatisation of the abduction of Getty's grandson. Kevin Spacey originally portrayed Getty. However, after multiple sexual assault allegations against the actor, his scenes were cut and re-shot with Christopher Plummer, who was nominated for the Academy Award for Best Supporting Actor for the performance.\n\nThe kidnapping is also dramatized in the first season of the American anthology drama series \"Trust\", in which Getty is portrayed by Donald Sutherland.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "481216", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=481216", "title": "Jiu Manzhou Dang", "text": "Jiu Manzhou Dang\n\nJiu Manzhou Dang () (Manchu: \"Fe Manju Dangse\") is a set of Manchu archives stored at the National Palace Museum in Taipei, Taiwan. It is the sourcebook of \"Manwen Laodang\" and a primary source of early Manchu history. It is often called \"yuandang\" (原檔 original archives).\n\nIt covers official Manchu documents from the 3rd month of the 35th year of the Wanli Emperor (1607) to the 12th month of the 1st year of Chongde (1636). Archives are mostly written in the script without dots and circles. Although Dahai is said to have invented the script with dots and circles in 1632, subsequent archives occasionally, but not always, add dots and circles. Standard Manchu required time to establish.\n\n\"Jiu Manzhou Dang\" was discovered in 1931, a month after the discovery of the Beijing edition of \"Manwen Laodang\". Three more volumes were found in 1935. It was moved from place to place due to long-running wars and was finally carried to Taiwan by the Kuomintang. The study on original archives was started in 1960s. The National Palace Museum published the copy under the name \"Jiu Manzhou Dang\" in 1969.\n"}
{"id": "9113319", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9113319", "title": "Life 102", "text": "Life 102\n\nLife 102: What to Do When Your Guru Sues You is a book by Peter McWilliams. Couched in the tone of the author's \"Life 101\" self-help books, it levels a series of allegations against John-Roger (Roger Delano Hinkins), founder of the Movement of Spiritual Inner Awareness (MSIA) and Insight Seminars.\n\nThese allegations caused the book, self-published in 1994 under McWilliams' Prelude Press imprint, to itself become the subject of litigation for libel. Remaining copies were withdrawn from sale. The volume discusses in detail McWilliams's own experiences over a 15-year period:\n\nMcWilliams describes his struggle with depression, and claims that Hinkins promised him \"spiritual healing\" in exchange for crediting \"John-Roger\" as co-author of a series of self-improvement manuals which later made the \"New York Times\" best-seller lists.\nHinkins sued McWiliams for libel, and in due course obtained full rights to \"Life 102\". The volume has been out of print ever since. When the book later appeared on another website without permission, McWilliams sent a notarized letter requesting the site owner remove it:\n\nMcWilliams died in June 2000.\n\n"}
{"id": "1657530", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1657530", "title": "List of acronyms: M", "text": "List of acronyms: M\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1616782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1616782", "title": "List of reporting marks: Q", "text": "List of reporting marks: Q\n\n"}
{"id": "8304767", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8304767", "title": "Mircea Eliade bibliography", "text": "Mircea Eliade bibliography\n\nThis is a bibliography of works by Mircea Eliade.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19701", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19701", "title": "Monty Python and the Holy Grail", "text": "Monty Python and the Holy Grail\n\nMonty Python and the Holy Grail is a 1975 British independent slapstick comedy film concerning the Arthurian legend, written and performed by the Monty Python comedy group of Graham Chapman, John Cleese, Terry Gilliam, Eric Idle, Terry Jones and Michael Palin, and directed by Gilliam and Jones. It was conceived during the hiatus between the third and fourth series of their BBC television series \"Monty Python's Flying Circus\".\n\nIn contrast to the group's first film, \"And Now for Something Completely Different\", a compilation of sketches from the first two television series, \"Holy Grail\" draws on new material, parodying the legend of King Arthur's quest for the Holy Grail. 30 years later, Idle used the film as the basis for the musical \"Spamalot\".\n\n\"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\" grossed more than any British film exhibited in the US in 1975. In the US, it was selected as the second best comedy of all time in the ABC special \"\". In the UK, readers of \"Total Film\" magazine ranked it the fifth greatest comedy film of all time; a similar poll of Channel 4 viewers placed it sixth (2000).\n\nIn 932 AD, King Arthur and his squire, Patsy, travel throughout Britain searching for men to join the Knights of the Round Table. Arthur recruits Sir Bedevere the Wise, Sir Lancelot the Brave, Sir Galahad the Pure, Sir Robin the Not-Quite-So-Brave-as-Sir-Lancelot, and Sir Not-Appearing-in-this-Film, along with their squires and Robin's troubadours. Arthur leads the men to Camelot, but decides it is \"a silly place\" and sets off elsewhere. As they turn away, God (an image of W. G. Grace) speaks to them and gives Arthur the task of finding the Holy Grail.\n\nArthur and his men search the land for clues to the Grail. They come to a castle occupied by French soldiers who claim to have the Grail and insult the Englishmen. Arthur and his men come up with a plan to sneak in using a Trojan Rabbit, but they mishandle its execution and are forced away. Arthur decides that the knights should go their separate ways to search for clues to the Grail's whereabouts. A modern-day historian being filmed for a documentary describing the Arthurian legends is abruptly killed by a knight on horseback, triggering a modern-day police investigation.\n\nOn the knights' travels, Arthur and Bedevere attempt to satisfy the strange requests of the dreaded Knights Who Say Ni. Sir Robin avoids a fight with a Three-Headed Giant by running away while the heads are arguing. Sir Galahad is led by a grail-shaped beacon to Castle Anthrax, populated by 160 women, but to his chagrin is \"rescued\" by Lancelot. Lancelot, after finding a note from Swamp Castle believed to be from a lady being forced to marry against her will, rushes to the castle and kills nearly the entire wedding party, only to discover that the note was sent by an effeminate prince.\n\nArthur and his knights regroup and are joined by Brother Maynard and monk followers. They meet Tim the Enchanter, who directs them to a cave where the location of the Grail is said to be written, but it is guarded by the deadly Rabbit of Caerbannog. After the Rabbit kills several of the knights, Arthur uses the Holy Hand Grenade of Antioch, provided by Maynard, to destroy the creature. Inside, they find the inscription from Joseph of Arimathea, directing them to the Castle of Aarrgh. After evading a giant monster, they arrive at the Bridge of Death and must answer three questions from the bridge-keeper to pass. Lancelot answers first and correctly, and passes on. Robin and Galahad fail to answer correctly and are thrown over the bridge; then Arthur tricks the bridge-keeper, allowing him and Bedevere to pass.\n\nWhen Arthur and Bedevere reach the bridge's end, they cannot find Lancelot, unaware he was arrested by the modern-day policemen investigating the historian's death. Arthur and Bedevere find the Castle of Aarrgh, but it is occupied by the French. They amass a large army of knights to assault the castle, when suddenly a large police force shows up, arrests Arthur and Bedevere for the historian's death, and shuts down the film's production.\n\nFifteen months before the BBC visited the set in May 1974, the Monty Python troupe assembled the first version of the screenplay. When half of the resulting material was set in the Middle Ages, and half was set in the present day, the group opted to focus on the Middle Ages, revolving on the legend of the Holy Grail. By the fourth or fifth version of their screenplay, the story was complete, and the cast joked the fact that the Grail was never retrieved would be \"a big let-down ... a great anti-climax\". Graham Chapman said a challenge was incorporating scenes that did not fit the Holy Grail motif.\n\nNeither Terry Gilliam nor Terry Jones had directed a film before, and described it as a learning experience in which they would learn to make a film by making an entire full-length film. The cast humorously described the novice directing style as employing the level of mutual disrespect always found in Monty Python's work.\n\nThe film’s initial budget of approximately £200,000 was raised by convincing 10 separate investors to contribute £20,000 apiece. Three of those investors were the rock bands Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin, and Genesis, who were persuaded to help fund the film by Tony Stratton-Smith, head of Charisma Records (the record label that released Python’s early comedy albums). According to Terry Gilliam, the Pythons turned to rock stars like Pink Floyd, Led Zeppelin and Elton John for finance as the studios refused to fund the film and rock stars saw it as \"a good tax write-off\" due to UK income tax being \"as high as 90%\" at the time.\n\n\"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\" was mostly shot on location in Scotland, particularly around Doune Castle, Glen Coe, and the privately owned Castle Stalker. The many castles seen throughout the film were mainly either Doune Castle shot from different angles or hanging miniatures. There are several exceptions to this: the very first exterior shot of a castle at the beginning of the film is Kidwelly Castle in South Wales, and the single exterior shot of the Swamp Castle during \"Tale of Sir Lancelot\" is Bodiam Castle in East Sussex; all subsequent shots of the exterior and interior of those scenes were filmed at Doune Castle. Production designer Julian Doyle recounted that his crew constructed walls in the forest near Doune. Terry Jones later recalled the crew had selected more castles around Scotland for locations, but during the two weeks prior to principal photography, the Scottish Department of the Environment declined permission for use of the castles in its jurisdiction, for fear of damage.\n\nAt the start of \"The Tale of Sir Robin\", there is a slow camera zoom in on rocky scenery (that in the voice over is described as \"the dark forest of Ewing\"). This is actually a still photograph of the Gorge at Mount Buffalo National Park in Victoria, Australia. Doyle stated in 2000 during an interview with \"Hotdog\" magazine that it was a still image filmed with candles underneath the frame (to give a heat haze). This was a low-cost method of achieving a convincing location effect.\nOn the DVD audio commentary, Cleese described challenges shooting and editing Castle Anthrax in \"The Tale of Sir Galahad\", with what he felt the most comedic take being unused because an anachronistic coat was visible in it. Castle Anthrax was also shot in one part of Doune, where costume designer Hazel Pethig advised against nudity, dressing the girls in shifts.\n\nIn the scene where the knights were combatting the Rabbit of Caerbannog, a real white rabbit was used, switched with puppets for its killings. It was covered with red liquid to simulate blood, though the rabbit's owner did not want the animal dirty and was kept unaware. The liquid was difficult to remove from the fur. He also stated that he thought that, had they been more experienced in filmmaking, the crew would have just purchased a rabbit instead. Otherwise, the rabbit himself was unharmed. Also, the rabbit-bite effects were done by special puppetry by both Gilliam and SFX technician John Horton.\n\nAs chronicled in \"The Life of Python\", \"The First 20 Years of Monty Python\", and \"The Pythons' Autobiography\", it was revealed that Chapman was suffering from acrophobia, trembling, and bouts of forgetfulness during filming. These were the results of Chapman's long-standing alcohol addiction, and he decided from that moment on to remain \"on an even keel\" while the production continued. Nearly three years after \"Holy Grail\", Chapman vowed to quit drinking altogether (which he successfully achieved in December 1977).\n\nOriginally the knight characters were going to ride real horses, but after it became clear that the film's small budget precluded real horses (except for a lone horse appearing in a couple of scenes), the Pythons decided that their characters would mime horse-riding while their porters trotted behind them banging coconut shells together. The joke was derived from the old-fashioned sound effect used by radio shows to convey the sound of hooves clattering. This was later referred to in the German release of the film, which translated the title as \"Die Ritter der Kokosnuß\".\n\nThe opening credits of the film feature pseudo-Swedish subtitles, which soon turn into an appeal to visit Sweden and see the country's moose. The subtitles are soon stopped, but moose references continue throughout the actual credits until the credits are stopped again and restarted in a different visual style and with references to llamas, animals often mentioned in \"Flying Circus\". The subtitles were written by Michael Palin as a way to \"entertain the 'captive' audience\" at the beginning of the film.\n\nIn addition to several songs written by Python regular Neil Innes, several pieces of music were licensed from De Wolfe Music Library. These include:\n\n\"Monty Python and the Holy Grail\" had its theatrical debut in the United Kingdom in 3 April 1975, followed by a United States release on 27 April 1975. It was re-released on 14 October 2015 in the United Kingdom.\n\nThe film had its television premiere 25 February 1977 on the \"CBS Late Movie\". Reportedly, the Pythons were displeased to discover a number of edits were done by the network to reduce use of profanity and the showing of blood. The troupe pulled back the rights and thereafter had it broadcast in the United States only on PBS and later other channels such as IFC, where it runs uncut.\n\nIn Region 1, The Criterion Collection released a laserdisc version of the film featuring audio commentary from directors Jones and Gilliam. In 2001, Columbia Tristar published a two-disc Special Edition DVD. Disc One included two commentary tracks featuring Idle, Palin, and Cleese in the first, and Jones and Gilliam in the second, and \"Subtitles for People Who Don't Like the Film\", consisting of lines taken from William Shakespeare's \"Henry IV, Part 2\". Disc Two includes \"Monty Python and the Holy Grail in Lego\" (also known as \"Lego Knights\" or \"It's Only a Model\"), a \"brickfilm\" version of the \"Camelot Song\" as sung by Lego minifigures. It was created by Spite Your Face Productions on commission from the Lego Group and Python Pictures. The project was conceived by the original film's respective Producer and Co-Director, John Goldstone and Terry Gilliam. Disc Two also includes two scenes from the film's Japanese dub, literally translated back into English through subtitles. \"The Quest for the Holy Grail Locations\", hosted by Palin and Jones, shows places in Scotland used for the setting titled as \"England 932 A.D.\" (as well as the two Pythons purchasing a copy of their own script as a guide). Also included is a who's who page, advertising galleries and sing-alongs.\n\nA limited-edition DVD release additionally included a copy of the screenplay, a limited-edition film cell/senitype, and limited-edition art cards; however, a few of the bonus features from the Extraordinarily Deluxe Edition were omitted. A 35th anniversary edition on Blu-ray was released in the US on 6 March 2012. Special features include \"The Holy Book of Days,\" a second-screen experience that can be downloaded as an app on an iOS device and played with the Blu-ray to enhance its viewing; lost animation sequences with a new intro from animator Terry Gilliam; outtakes; and extended scenes with Python member and the movie's co-director Terry Jones.\n\nContemporary reviews were mixed. Vincent Canby of \"The New York Times\" wrote in a favorable review that the film had \"some low spots,\" but had gags which were \"nonstop, occasionally inspired and should not be divulged, though it's not giving away too much to say that I particularly liked a sequence in which the knights, to gain access to an enemy castle, come up with the idea of building a Trojan rabbit.\" Charles Champlin of the \"Los Angeles Times\" was also positive, writing that the film, \"like Mad comics, is not certain to please every taste. But its youthful exuberance and its rousing zaniness are hard not to like. As a matter of fact, the sense of fun is dangerously contagious.\" Penelope Gilliatt of \"The New Yorker\" called the film \"often recklessly funny and sometimes a matter of comic genius.\"\n\nOther reviews were less enthusiastic. \"Variety\" wrote that the storyline was \"basically an excuse for set pieces, some amusing, others overdone.\" Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\" gave the film two-and-a-half stars, writing that he felt \"it contained about 10 very funny moments and 70 minutes of silence. Too many of the jokes took too long to set up, a trait shared by both 'Blazing Saddles' and 'Young Frankenstein.' I guess I prefer Monty Python in chunks, in its original, television revue format.\" Gary Arnold of \"The Washington Post\" called the film \"a fitfully amusing spoof of the Arthurian legends\" but \"rather poky\" in tempo, citing the running gag of Swedish subtitles in the opening credits as an example of how the Pythons \"don't know when to let go of any \"shtik\"\". Geoff Brown of \"The Monthly Film Bulletin\" wrote in a mixed review that \"the team's visual buffooneries and verbal rigamaroles (some good, some bad, but mostly indifferent) are piled on top of each other with no attention to judicious timing or structure, and a form which began as a jaunty assault on the well-made revue sketch and an ingenious misuse of television's fragmented style of presentation, threatens to become as unyielding and unfruitful as the conventions it originally attacked.\"\n\nThe film's reputation grew over time. In 2000, readers of \"Total Film\" magazine voted \"Holy Grail\" the fifth greatest comedy film of all time. The next Python film, \"Life of Brian\", was ranked first. A similar poll of Channel 4 viewers in 2005 placed \"Holy Grail\" in sixth (with \"Life of Brian\" again topping the list).\nIn 2005, the film spawned a Tony Award-winning Broadway musical smash hit spinoff, \"Spamalot\". Written primarily by Idle, the show has more of an overarching plot and leaves out certain portions of the movie due to difficulties in rendering certain effects on stage. Nonetheless, many of the jokes from the film are present in the show.\n\nIn 2011, an ABC prime-time special, \"\", counted down the best films chosen by fans based on results of a poll conducted by ABC and \"People\". \"Holy Grail\" was selected as the second best comedy after \"Airplane!\".\n\nIn 2013, the Pythons lost a legal case to Mark Forstater, the film's producer, over royalties for the derivative work, \"Spamalot\". They owed a combined £800,000 in legal fees and back royalties to Forstater. To help cover the cost of these royalties and fees, the group arranged and performed in a stage show, \"Monty Python Live (mostly)\", held at The O2 arena in London in July 2014.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17775284", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17775284", "title": "Object Reuse and Exchange", "text": "Object Reuse and Exchange\n\nThe Open Archives Initiative Object Reuse and Exchange (OAI-ORE) defines standards for the description and exchange of aggregations of web resources. The OAI-ORE specification implements the ORE Model which introduces the resource map (ReM) that makes it possible to associate an identity with aggregations of resources and make assertions about their structure and semantics.\n\nThese aggregations (sometimes called \"compound digital objects\" or \"compound information objects\") may combine distributed resources together, and with multiple media types including text, images, data, and video. The goal of OAI-ORE is to expose the rich content in aggregations to applications that support authoring, deposit, exchange, visualization, reuse, and preservation.\n\nThe Andrew W. Mellon Foundation funded two years of work on the OAI-ORE project in 2006-2008. Version 1.0 of the specification was released on 17 October 2008.\n\nThe ORE standard is concerned with the description of aggregations of web resources. It defines 4 entities:\n\nThe standard accounts for the possible redundant description of the same aggregation and defines the notion of authoritative Resource Map. It also consider the notions of similar aggregations and of type of aggregated resources.\n\nThe standard is open in the sense that a Resource Map may include any additional assertions about resources.\n\nFinally, the ORE standard builds upon the \"Cool URIs \" guideline, which discussed two strategies for not confusing a thing and some representation of it.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19072712", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19072712", "title": "Oxford Dictionary of Saints", "text": "Oxford Dictionary of Saints\n\nThe Oxford Dictionary of Saints by David Hugh Farmer is a concise reference compilation of information on more than 1300 saints and contains over 1700 entries. It is published by Oxford University Press. The first edition was published in 1978. A fifth revised edition was published in 2011.\n"}
{"id": "34575314", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34575314", "title": "Pablita Abeyta", "text": "Pablita Abeyta\n\nPablita Abeyta (\"Ta-Nez-Bah\", Navajo, born July 20, 1953) was a Navajo sculptor and activist from New Mexico, United States. She was the oldest daughter of artist Narciso Abeyta.\n\nPablita Abeyta was born in Gallup, New Mexico in 1953. Both her parents were artists; her father was Narciso Abeyta. Abeyta was one of seven children. Each child had an artistic skill, ranging from weaving to sculpture to painting. Each child was given a Navajo middle name, with the goal of keeping the children connected to their Native American heritage. Her Navajo name, \"Ta-Nez-Bah,\" translates as \"One Who Completes a Circle.\"\n\nAbeyta earned her Master of Public Affairs from the University of New Mexico in 1983. After earning her degree, she became a lobbyist for the Navajo Nation Washington, D.C. office. As a lobbyist for the Navajo, she coordinated a national effort to secure the passing of amendments related to Native peoples such as the Safe Drinking Water Act, Clean Water Act, and the Superfund act. From 1986 to 1988, Abeyta was a legislative assistant for Ben Nighthorse Campbell. She left Campbell's office in 1988 to join the Bureau of Indian Affairs. In 1991, she became a congressional liaison for the National Museum of the American Indian (NMAI). At NMAI she monitored the planned museum's funding and participated in obtaining funding for the museum. She had also worked in developing proposals related to the cultural repatriation. She had also served as the special assistant to the director of the museum.\n\nAs an artist, Abeyta created sculptures that are described as \"smooth, round and sensuous.\" Her work is held in the collections of numerous private and public collections, including those of John McCain, Daniel Inouye, NMAI and the National Museum of Natural History.\n"}
{"id": "2611270", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2611270", "title": "Persian and Urdu", "text": "Persian and Urdu\n\nThe Persian language historically influenced many of the modern languages and dialects of the Middle East, Central Asia, Eastern Europe, South Asia including Urdu, a language having its origin in India during the Mughal reign, it is the national language of Pakistan and an official language in seven states/territories of India.\n\nFollowing the Turko-Persian Ghaznavid conquest of South Asia, the speech based in Delhi's Khariboli dialect and other dialects of South Asia received a large influx of Persian, Chagatai and Arabic vocabulary. The subsequent Turko-Afghan Delhi Sultanate gave way for a further continuation of this. The basis in general for the introduction of Persian language into the subcontinent was set, from its earliest days, by various Persianized Central Asian Turkic and Afghan dynasties. \n\nThis lexically diverse register of Hindustani, emerged in the northern subcontinent, was commonly called \"Zaban-e Urdu-e Mualla\" ('language of the exalted city') and eventually replaced Persian, the court language, and its name was shortened to just \"Urdu\". It grew from the interaction of Persian and Turkic-speaking Muslim soldiers and the native peoples. Under Persian influence from the state, the Persian Nastaʿlīq script was adopted, with additional figures added to accommodate the Indo-Aryan phonetic system.\n\nUnlike Persian, which is an Iranian language, Urdu is a variant of an Indo-Aryan language, Hindustani, written in the Perso-Arabic script, and contains literary conventions and specialized vocabulary largely from Persian. Some grammatical elements peculiar to Persian, such as the enclitic ezāfe and the use of pen-names, were readily absorbed into Urdu literature both in the religious and secular spheres.\n\nModern Persian has three major variants: Western Persian (spoken primarily in Iran, known by its native speakers as \"Farsi\", the literal Persian word for itself), Dari (spoken as a lingua franca by a large majority of Afghans) and Tajik (spoken by the Tajiks of Tajikistan). These variants are almost entirely mutually intelligible with one another.\n\nLikewise, Urdu is a major variant of Hindustani, the other major variant being Hindi. Both Hindi and Urdu are almost entirely mutually intelligible with one another, but have somewhat distinct vocabulary and minor terminological differences. Another major difference is their writing systems are entirely different, with Hindi using Devanagari and Urdu using the Nastaʿlīq script. \n\nHindustani gained distinction in literary and cultural spheres in South Asia because of its role as a lingua franca in the subcontinent as a result of the large number of speakers the language has, both as a first and second language. A prominent cross-over writer was Amir Khusrow, whose Persian and Urdu couplets are to this day read in South Asia. Muhammad Iqbal was also a prominent South Asian writer who wrote in Persian and Urdu.\n\nProminent Urdu Persian authors include Amir Khusrow, Muhammad Iqbal and Ghalib.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17312573", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17312573", "title": "Procurator to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland", "text": "Procurator to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland\n\nThe Procurator to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland is the principal legal advisor to the General Assembly of the Church of Scotland. The holder of the office is invariably a Queen's Counsel in Scotland. Day-to-day advice is given by the Church's own Law Department, headed by the Solicitor to the Church; the Procurator can be called on for specialist advice.\n\nFormer procurators include Lord Davidson, Lord Penrose and Lord Hodge.\n"}
{"id": "35901043", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35901043", "title": "R v Mavros", "text": "R v Mavros\n\nR v Mavros is an important case in South African law. It was heard in the Appellate Division in Bloemfontein in November 1920. Innes CJ, Solomon JA and Juta JA were the presiding officers.\n\nThe term \"arson\" in South African practice is used to denote the corresponding, but somewhat wider, crime of \"brandstichting\", which is committed by a man who sets fire to his own house wrongfully, maliciously and with intent to injure or defraud another person. Mavros in the present case had been convicted of the crime of arson, in that he had wrongfully and maliciously set alight his own store with intent to burn it and defraud a certain insurance company of the money for which it had insured the store and its goods.\n\nDeparting from the decision in \"R v Enslin\" the court held, on a point of law reserved, that the facts as alleged constituted the crime charged.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5783008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5783008", "title": "Rescript", "text": "Rescript\n\nIn legal terminology, a rescript is a document that is issued not on the initiative of the author, but in response (it literally means 'written back') to a specific demand made by its addressee. It does not apply to more general legislation.\n\nThe word originated from the Roman imperial court, which often issued rescripts, in many cases prompted by its many governors and other officials. Some important early legal collections were composed entirely of rescripts, for instance the Codex Hermogenianus, published around AD 300. The other main field of application is the papal Roman Curia, which adopted many Roman administrative terms and practices.\n\nRescripts may take various forms, from a formal document of an established type, such as a Papal Bull, to the forwarding of the demand with a simple mention by way of decision, something like \"rejected\" or \"awarded\", either to the party concerned or to the competent executive office to be carried out.\n\nBy analogy it is also applied to similar procedures in other contexts, such as the Ottoman, Chinese and Japanese imperial courts, or even prior to the Roman empire. Two well-known examples of Japanese Imperial rescripts were Emperor Hirohito's 1945 Imperial Rescript on the Termination of the War written in response to the Potsdam Declaration and his 1946 Humanity Declaration written in response to a request by General Douglas MacArthur.\n\nPapal rescripts concern the granting of favours or the administration of justice under canon law. In Roman Catholicism rescripts are responses in writing by the pope or a Congregation of the Roman Curia to queries or petitions of individuals.\n\nIn France, people have the possibility to ask an administration for a \"rescrit\" (rescript), which means that they will present to the competent administration a circumstanced particular case, and obtain a formal answer (the \"rescrit\") by the administration explaining how the law will be applied to the submitted particular case. The rescript is binding for the administration, and may be used before a court of law to exonerate the person who asked for the rescript in case of prosecution. In English common law such a hypothetical process is not allowed, and cases must be determined on fact.\n\nThe Massachusetts appellate courts issue rescripts to the lower courts. These are the equivalent of mandates in federal appellate practice.\n\n"}
{"id": "20260062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20260062", "title": "SLAMD Server", "text": "SLAMD Server\n\nA SLAMD Server is a server supported by an application server that services SLAMD clients and SLAMD jobs.\n"}
{"id": "27425320", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27425320", "title": "Samaritan woman at the well", "text": "Samaritan woman at the well\n\nThe Samaritan woman at the well is a figure from the Gospel of John, in . In Eastern Orthodox and Eastern Catholic traditions, she is venerated as a saint with the name Photine (also Photini, Photina, meaning \"the luminous one\" from φως, \"light\").\n\nThe woman appears in John 4:4–42:\n\nThis episode takes place before the return of Jesus to Galilee. Some Jews regarded the Samaritans as foreigners and their attitude was often hostile, although they shared most beliefs, while many other Jews accepted Samaritans as either fellow Jews or as Samaritan Israelites. The two communities seem to have drifted apart in the post-exilic period. Both communities share the Pentateuch, although crucially the Samaritan Pentateuch locates the holy mountain at Mount Gerizim rather than at Mount Zion, as this incident acknowledges at John 4:20.\n\nThe Gospel of John, like the Gospel of Luke, is favourable to the Samaritans throughout, and, while the Matthaean Gospel quotes Jesus at one early phase in his ministry telling his followers to not at that time evangelize any of the cities of the Samaritans, this restriction had clearly been reversed later by the time of Matthew 28:19. Scholars differ as to whether the Samaritan references in the New Testament are historical. One view is that the historical Jesus had no contact with Samaritans; another is that the accounts go back to Jesus himself. Note that in Acts 1:8, Jesus promises the apostles that they will be witnesses to the Samaritans.\n\nScholars have noted that this story appears to be modelled on a standard betrothal scene from Hebrew scripture, particularly that of Jacob in Genesis 29. This convention, which would have been familiar to Jewish readers, following on from an earlier scene in which John the Baptist compares his relationship to Jesus with that of the friend of a bridegroom.\n\nThis Gospel episode is referred to as \"a paradigm for our engagement with truth\", in the Roman Curia book \"A Christian reflection on the New Age\", as the dialogue says: \"You worship what you do not know; we worship what we know\" and offers an example of \"Jesus Christ the bearer of the water of life\". The passages that comprise are sometimes referred to as the Water of Life Discourse, which forms a complement to the Bread of Life Discourse.\n\nIn Eastern Christian tradition, the woman's name at the time of her meeting Jesus is unknown, though she was later christened \"Photina\". She is celebrated as a saint of renown. As further recounted in and , she was quick to spread the news of her meeting with Jesus, and through this many came to believe in him. Her continuing witness is said to have brought so many to the Christian faith that she is described as \"equal to the apostles\". Eventually, having drawn the attention of Emperor Nero, she was brought before him to answer for her faith, suffering many tortures and dying a martyr after being thrown down a dry well. She is remembered on the Sunday four weeks after Pascha, which is known as \"the Sunday of the Samaritan Woman\".\n\nIn Oaxaca, Oaxaca, Mexico, a celebration of the Samaritan woman takes place on the fourth Friday of Lent. The custom of the day involves churches, schools, and businesses giving away fruit drinks to passers-by.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31214651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31214651", "title": "Seated Woman on a Bench", "text": "Seated Woman on a Bench\n\nSeated Woman on a Bench is a bronze sculpture by Willem de Kooning.\n\nModeled in 1972, it was cast in 1976. It is at the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8611724", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8611724", "title": "Song Yingxing", "text": "Song Yingxing\n\nSong Yingxing (Traditional Chinese: 宋應星; Simplified Chinese: 宋应星; Wade Giles: Sung Ying-Hsing; 1587-1666 AD) was a Chinese scientist and encyclopedist who lived during the late Ming Dynasty (1368–1644). He was the author of \"Tiangong Kaiwu\", an encyclopedia that covered a wide variety of technical subjects, including the use of gunpowder weapons. The British sinologist and historian Joseph Needham called Song Yingxing \"The Diderot of China.\"\n\nSong Yingxing was born in Yichun of Jiangxi in 1587 to a gentry family of reduced circumstances, he participated in the imperial examinations, and passed the provincial test in 1615, at the age of 28. He achieved only modest wealth and influence during his life. However, he was repeatedly unsuccessful in the metropolitan examination. Song sat for the test five times, the last being in 1631 at the age of 44. After this last failure, he held a series of minor positions in provincial government. The works for which Song is known today all date from 1636 to 1637. The repeated trips to the capital to participate in the metropolitan examination likely provided him with the broad base of knowledge demonstrated in the works. Song retired from public life in 1644, after the fall of the Ming dynasty.\n\nAlthough Song Yingxing's encyclopedia was a significant publication for his age, there had been a long tradition in the history of Chinese literature in creating large encyclopedic works. For example, the \"Four Great Books of Song\" compiled much earlier in the 10th and 11th centuries (and all four combined, were much more extensive in size than his work). Just a few decades before Yingxing's work, there was also the Ming Dynasty encyclopedia of the \"Sancai Tuhui\", written in 1607 and published in 1609. Song Yingxing's famous work was the \"Tiangong Kaiwu\", or \"The Exploitation of the Works of Nature\", published in May 1637 with funding provided by Song's patron Tu Shaokui. The \"Tiangong Kaiwu\" is an encyclopedia covering a wide range of technical issues, including the use of various gunpowder weapons. Copies of the book were very scarce in China during the Qing dynasty (1644–1911) (due to the government's establishment of monopolies over certain industries described in the book), but original copies of the book were preserved in Japan.\n\nAs the historian Joseph Needham points out, the vast amount of accurately drawn illustrations in this encyclopedia dwarfed the amount provided in previous Chinese encyclopedias, making it a valuable written work in the history of Chinese literature. At the same time, the Tiangong Kaiwu broke from Chinese tradition by rarely referencing previous written work. It is instead written in a style strongly suggestive of first-hand experience. In the preface to the work, Song attributed this deviation from tradition to his poverty and low standing.\n\nSong Yingxing also published two scientific tractates that outline his cosmological views. In these, he discusses the concepts of \"qi\" and \"xing\" (形). Qi has been described in many different ways by Chinese philosophers. To Song, it is a type of all-permeating vapor from which solid objects (\"xing\") are formed. These solid objects eventually return to the state of \"qi\", which itself eventually returns to the great void. Some objects, such as the sun and the moon, remain in \"qi\" form indefinitely, while objects like stones are eternally \"xing\". Some objects, like water and fire, are intermediary between the two forms.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "20823278", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20823278", "title": "Stadtarchiv Frankfurt (Oder)", "text": "Stadtarchiv Frankfurt (Oder)\n\nThe Stadtarchiv Frankfurt (Oder), , contains the documents with information about the history of the city Frankfurt upon Oder and its citizens from the 13th century to the present day. To the archives belongs: seeds, sources for history research, acts, maps, plans, manuscripts, newspapers, magazines, books, stamps and other materials. The library (built in 1925), part of archives, contains about 16 000 volumes of printed books from 1470-2001, and 34 incunabula printed before 1470 in Frankfurt. Most of them by Viadrina University of Frankfurt. \n\n"}
{"id": "30887890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30887890", "title": "Subject access", "text": "Subject access\n\nSubject access refers to the methods and systems by which books, journals, and other documents are accessed in a given bibliographic database (e.g. a library classification system). The single records in a bibliographic file is structured in fields and each field can be searchable and combined with other fields. Such searchable data from fields of records are termed access points. Some of these access points contain information such as author name, number of pages, language of publication, name of publisher etc. These are in library jargon termed \"descriptive data\". Other kinds of access points contain information such as title words, classification codes, indexing terms etc. They are termed subject access points.\n\nHowever, a subject access point is defined as any access point useful for subject searching. There is no precise border between descriptive access points and subject access points. In theory any access point may hypothetically be used for subject searching. \n\n"}
{"id": "2826681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2826681", "title": "United Kingdom food labelling regulations", "text": "United Kingdom food labelling regulations\n\nThe law in the UK on food labelling is multifaceted and is spread over many reforms and parliamentary acts, making the subject complex. It must comply with the relevant rules in the European Union, for which the main law relating to food labelling is Regulation (EU) 1169/2011.\n\nThere are general rules applying to any food product:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34259873", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34259873", "title": "Victor Negus", "text": "Victor Negus\n\nSir Victor Ewings Negus, MS, FRCS (6 February 1887 – 15 July 1974) was a British surgeon who specialised in laryngology and also made fundamental contributions to comparative anatomy with his work on the structure and evolution of the larynx. He was born and educated in London, studying at King's College School, then King's College London, followed by King's College Hospital. The final years of his medical training were interrupted by the First World War, during which he served with the Royal Army Medical Corps. After the war, he qualified as a surgeon and studied with laryngologists in France and the USA before resuming his career at King's College Hospital where he became a junior surgeon in 1924.\n\nIn the 1920s, Negus worked on aspects of both throat surgery and the anatomy of the larynx, the latter work contributing to his degree of Master of Surgery (1924). His surgical innovations included designs for laryngoscopes, bronchoscopes, oesophagoscopes, an operating table, and tracheotomy equipment. His major publications were \"The Mechanism of the Larynx\" (1929) and his work on the clinical text \"Diseases of the Nose and Throat\", starting with the fourth edition of 1937. Negus was also awarded several lectureships and published many medical papers and other works on comparative anatomy and laryngology. He became a senior surgeon at King's College Hospital in 1940 and a consulting surgeon in 1946.\n\nNegus was one of the founders of the British Association of Otorhinolaryngologists, helping to establish his speciality as a discipline within the newly formed National Health Service. He was a member of numerous international and national otolaryngology organisations, and presided over the Fourth International Congress of Otolaryngology in London in 1949. In this period of his career following the Second World War he also worked on the anatomy of the paranasal sinuses, and played a key role in rebuilding and establishing collections of animal dissections used by comparative anatomists.\n\nNegus, who married in 1929 and had two sons, retired in 1952, though he continued to publish on comparative anatomy and the history of medicine. His honours before and after retirement included the Fellowship of King's College, London (1945), an honorary degree (1950), the Lister Medal (1954), a knighthood (1956), honorary fellowships of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh (1949) and the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland (1958), and the Honorary Gold Medal of the Royal College of Surgeons of England (1969). He died in Hindhead, Surrey, aged 87 in 1974.\n\nVictor Ewings Negus was born on 6 February 1887 in Tooting, London, the youngest of three sons of William and Emily Negus (née Ewings). His father was a solicitor, Justice of the Peace, and Deputy Lieutenant for the County of Surrey. Victor's pre-university education took place at King's College School. In 1906, he was awarded a Sambrooke scholarship to King's College London, on the Strand, where his studies for the next three years included premedical and preclinical subjects.\n\nAfter passing the required examinations, Negus proceeded in 1909 to the next stage of his basic medical education at the nearby King's College Hospital, at that time located on Portugal Street between the Strand and Lincoln's Inn Fields. Three more years of study led to the attainment in 1912 of the MRCS and LRCP (Membership of the Royal College of Surgeons and Licentiate of the Royal College of Physicians, known as the 'conjoint diploma'), marking his formal qualification to practice medicine. In the final year of these studies, Negus was an usher at the funeral service for Lord Lister at Westminster Abbey. Another connection with Lister's generation came when Negus worked as surgical dresser and house surgeon under Sir William Watson Cheyne, who had himself been house surgeon to Lister. The postgraduate stages of Negus's training involved specialisation in diseases of the ear, nose and throat, a direction influenced and guided by the otorhinolaryngologist St Clair Thomson (1857–1943). In the years following his qualification in 1912, Negus worked at King's College Hospital, and had started further clinical training at the Hospital for Diseases of the Throat in Golden Square, Soho, but this was interrupted by the outbreak of the First World War.\n\nNegus served in the Royal Army Medical Corps (RAMC) with the British Expeditionary Force for the first 18 months of the war. He initially deployed with the 1st General Hospital, then saw action in the trenches on the front line with a machine-gun battalion at the First Battle of Ypres. The effects of explosives during this period left him with tinnitus. This was followed by a period serving on hospital barges. In 1916, Negus, still with the RAMC, was posted to the 3rd (Lahore) Division (part of the British Indian Army) and took part in the Mesopotamia Campaign. As one of those who had deployed to the Western Front in the opening months of the war, he was later awarded the Mons Star. His service in the RAMC ended in 1919.\n\nFollowing his discharge from the army, Negus, again with the advice and guidance of St Clair Thomson, resumed his studies and preparations for a career in throat surgery. By 1921 he had graduated MB BS (London) [Bachelor of Medicine, Bachelor of Surgery] and by 1922 he had taken the surgical exams for the FRCS (Fellow of the Royal College of Surgeons) qualification. To gain further experience, he spent periods of time abroad studying with renowned laryngologists: firstly with Emil Moure and Georges Portmann in Bordeaux, France; and secondly with Chevalier Jackson in Philadelphia, USA. On his return to London, he became clinical assistant to St Clair Thomson at King's College Hospital.\n\nAt this point, still early in his surgical career, Negus took a different approach to that which was common at the time. Rather than be apprenticed to a leading surgeon in his ENT (ear, nose and throat) speciality, he undertook basic research on the structure of the larynx that would lead to a higher degree in 1924 and the publication of books and papers on the topic in later years. While engaged in this research, Negus continued his work at King's College Hospital, being appointed junior surgeon in 1924. It was during this period, following his return from the USA, that Negus both promoted the methods and tools he had seen used in Philadelphia by Jackson, and worked to improve the designs of the endoscopes and other equipment used in ENT surgery. These instruments, developed in collaboration with the Genito-Urinary Company of London, included laryngoscopes, bronchoscopes (such as the Negus bronchoscope) and oesophagoscopes. Other surgical innovations developed by Negus included an operating table (known as the King's College table), and a speaking valve for use in tracheotomy tubes. He also helped develop strategies for treatments of throat cancer to aid the choice between surgery and radiotherapy.\n\nIn 1929, Negus married Winifred Adelaide Gladys Rennie (1901–1980, known as Eve) with whom he would have two sons, David (1930–2010) and Richard (1932–2008). Negus's surgical and medical teaching career continued to progress, and he was appointed surgeon in 1931. It was in 1937 that his major work in clinical medicine, the fourth edition of \"Diseases of the Nose and Throat\", was published. This work, \"still used for reference\", was described as \"for many years the standard textbook in English on this subject\", and as Negus's \"major literary contribution to clinical medicine\". The 1937 edition continued work on earlier editions by St Clair Thomson, who worked jointly with Negus on the new edition. A fifth edition worked on by both men was published in 1948 following Thomson's death, and the sixth edition by Negus alone appeared in 1955.\n\nIn 1939, the Negus family moved to Haslemere, Surrey. During the Second World War, Negus again served in a medical capacity, this time with the Emergency Medical Service (EMS) at Horton Hospital, Epsom, from 1939 to 1946. In 1940, on the retirement of his colleague Charles Hope, he had been appointed senior surgeon at King's College Hospital, and in 1946 he reached the peak of his profession as a consulting surgeon. During this post-war period one of Negus's patients was the former (and future) prime minister Winston Churchill, who in 1950 was diagnosed by Negus with high-frequency sensorineural hearing loss. Negus retired from clinical and teaching work in 1952 at the age of 65.\n\nIn parallel with his career as a throat surgeon at a teaching hospital, Negus become a leading expert on the comparative anatomy of first the larynx and then the nose and the paranasal sinuses. This strand of his professional life started with the research he carried out in his thirties in the 1920s that eventually led to his degree of Master of Surgery (MS), awarded by the University of London. This work started as early as 1921 in the laboratories of the Royal College of Surgeons of England, whose museum housed the collections of animal specimens gathered by the anatomist John Hunter. Working on these specimens, and adding to them with others supplied by the Zoological Society of London, Negus carried out meticulous dissections that enabled him to trace the stages of evolution and development of the larynx across a wide variety of animals. Part of this research was submitted as his thesis, and the excellence of the work was recognised by the award of a Gold Medal with his MS degree in 1924. In addition to this, Negus gave the Arris and Gale Lecture on 28 April 1924 at the Royal College of Surgeons, with his talk titled \"On the Mechanism of the Larynx\".\n\nFurther recognition of his work came when Negus was made Hunterian Professor at the Royal College of Surgeons in 1925, followed three years later in 1928 by the awarding of the triennial John Hunter Medal (1925–7) from the Royal College of Surgeons, which came with a prize of £50. The following year Negus published his observations and conclusions in \"The Mechanism of the Larynx\" (1929), a \"classic piece of research\" still referred to forty-five years later in 1974 as \"the standard reference book\" on this topic. Negus's work had shown that the main function of the larynx is as a valve that only allows air into the lower respiratory tract. In humans, the voice is only a byproduct of this more vital function. Another lecture resulting from this work was given under the auspices of the University of London's Semon Lectureship, named after the German-born British laryngologist Felix Semon (1849–1921). This talk was delivered on 6 November 1930 at the Royal Society of Medicine under the title \"Observations on Semon's Law\".\n\nThese earlier works were followed after the Second World War by the publication of \"Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Larynx\" (1949). This work was a condensed and updated version of Negus's original 1929 work on the larynx. It was in this post-war period that Negus would increasingly study the function of the nose, both as the organ for the sense of smell (olfaction) and the role of the nose in respiration. This was prompted by wartime damage in 1941 to the Royal College of Surgeons' Hunterian Museum, which included the loss of parts of the Onodi Collection. This collection had contained specimens of the accessory sinuses (paranasal sinuses) prepared by the Hungarian laryngologist Adolf Onodi (1857–1919) and demonstrated by him in 1900. Negus undertook to replace the destroyed and damaged specimens and to extend the collection with animal specimens. This work was covered in Negus's Hunterian Lecture, delivered on 20 May 1954 at the Royal College of Surgeons under the title \"Introduction to the Comparative Anatomy of the Nose and Paranasal Sinuses\". This was followed four years later by the publication of \"Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Nose and Paranasal Sinuses\" (1958). Much of this later work was carried out after retirement in 1952, both at the laboratories of the Royal College of Surgeons and at the Ferens Institute of Otolaryngology at the Middlesex Hospital. Negus's research over many years on these topics and their relation to nose and throat surgery led to the awarding of the 1954 Lister Medal. This was presented the following year when Negus delivered the Lister Oration on 5 April 1955 at the Royal College of Surgeons. The oration was titled \"The Comparative Anatomy and Physiology of the Respiratory Tract in Relation to Clinical Problems\". Ten years later, towards the end of his life, Negus published \"The Biology of Respiration\" (1965).\n\nNegus's legacy in this field was assessed in 1986 by the British surgeon and comparative anatomist Sir Donald Frederick Norris Harrison, himself an expert on the mammalian larynx. Writing further on the subject in 1995, Harrison states that Negus's \"pioneer research into the mechanism of the animal larynx [...] established him as a unique comparative anatomist.\" Harrison quotes from the Scottish anatomist Sir Arthur Keith's preface to \"The Mechanism of the Larynx\". In this preface, Negus's 1929 work is described as showing \"the same patient power of assembling observation after observation as Darwin had and some of the hot pursuit of function as urged by Hunter\".\n\nAs one of the leading practitioners in his speciality, Negus served in many roles in its organisation and administration at both a national and international level. In particular, he worked closely with the Royal College of Surgeons of England, the body responsible for the accreditation and representation of surgeons practising in England and Wales, and also the organisation that supported him in his researches in comparative anatomy. The Royal College of Surgeons is located in London, and from 1939 to 1941 he was President of its Listerian Society.\n\nIn 1942, Negus was President of the Section of Laryngology at the Royal Society of Medicine. When Negus had been training as a surgeon, laryngology, rhinology and otology had been part of general surgery, but this was changing with the advent of ENT (ear, nose and throat) medicine as a combined and specialised discipline. Negus and colleagues attempted to set up the necessary structure within the Royal Society of Medicine to represent their profession as an emerging speciality, but the regulations in place would not allow the type of organisation they had planned. This led them, in 1943, to found the British Association of Otorhinolaryngologists which would be able to represent ENT surgeons through the Royal College of Surgeons. Following the war, Negus was co-opted to the Council of the Royal College of Surgeons in 1947, and was the first to represent otolaryngology at that level. He was also a member of the college's Court of Examiners, and worked to set up the first examination in otorhinolaryngology that could be taken for the FRCS diploma. This reorganisation was taking place against a background of immense change in how medicine was practised in the UK, due to the advent of the National Health Service (NHS). Negus's colleague, Geoffrey Bateman, writing in 1974, credits him with having the foresight to represent the interests of otolaryngology and see it established as a major speciality in its own right within the NHS.\n\nNegus became President of the British Association of Otorhinolaryngologists in 1951, and this was one of a number of presidencies he held, including that of the Thoracic Society (1949–50) and the Fourth International Congress of Otolaryngology. The latter was a large event that took place in London over a week in July 1949. It was held in the Great Hall of King's College, London, and was attended by over 700 otolaryngology specialists from 39 countries. The patron was King George VI and the congress was opened by the Duchess of Kent. Negus was President and host for the 1954 annual meeting of the Collegium Oto-rhino-laryngologicum Amicitiae Sacrum (CORLAS), held in London from 29 August to 1 September, and was the treasurer of CORLAS from 1936 to 1950. Negus was also associated with, and gave talks to, numerous medical societies in the UK and abroad, with his connections ranging from honorary fellowships to corresponding and honorary memberships. These foreign societies included the American Broncho-Esophagological Association, and the countries included Sweden, Denmark, Canada, the USA, Austria, France, Italy, Hungary, and Turkey. Bateman opined in his obituary of Negus that it seemed unlikely that any other British ENT surgeon \"has been honoured by so many societies\".\n\nFollowing his retirement, Negus continued his involvement with the Royal College of Surgeons, becoming a trustee (and later chairman of the trustees) of the Hunterian Collection, the same collection that included the specimens that had underpinned his research some thirty years earlier. He also published books on the history of the college and its collections: \"The History of the Trustees of the Hunterian Collection\" (1965); and \"The Artistic Possessions at the Royal College of Surgeons of England\" (1968).\n\nIn his later years, Negus received many awards and honours. In 1945, he was made a Fellow of King's College, London. On 25 July 1949, he received the honorary fellowship of the Royal College of Surgeons of Edinburgh. Further tributes followed as an honorary Doctor of Science (D.Sc.) was conferred on him on 17 May 1950 by the University of Manchester. Back in London, the Royal Society of Medicine made him an honorary fellow in 1954. Two years later, Negus was made a knight bachelor with the investiture taking place at Buckingham Palace on 7 February 1956. On 28 August 1958, it was the turn of the Royal College of Surgeons in Ireland to bestow their honorary fellowship on him. In addition to these awards, Negus continued to give lectures, including an Erasmus Wilson demonstration awarded by the Royal College of Surgeons of England in 1953, and the Johns Hopkins Lecture on 30 April 1957. Negus also received the 1963 Gould Award from the William and Harriet Gould Foundation of Chicago, USA, \"for his monumental contributions to the science of laryngology\".\n\nOn 13 February 1969, Negus and two others (Sir Geoffrey Keynes and Sir Stanford Cade) were presented with the Honorary Gold Medal of the Royal College of Surgeons of England. This award, which had only been made thirty times since 1802 prior to the 1969 ceremony, is presented for \"liberal acts or distinguished labours, researches and discoveries, eminently conducive to the improvement of natural knowledge and of the healing art.\" The medal was presented by Sir Hedley Atkins, the President of the Royal College of Surgeons, who paid tribute to Negus: \"Sir Victor Negus is perhaps the most distinguished of all those who have served the Council as a co-opted member. He has always been known to us as a great research worker and scientist, whose labours earned him the Lister Medal, a man of exceptional integrity and industry and a persistent advocate of the value of tradition in its best sense.\" Atkins also paid tribute to Negus's wife, Lady Negus, who had crafted and presented to the college a tapestry of its coat-of-arms. Responding, Negus thanked the members of the Council for the award and for the privilege of having used college facilities since 1921, concluding: \"I take this honour as a mark of approval for any work I have done, and I feel I can now sit back and leave it to others to carry on. I would also like to thank you for inviting my wife to be here to-day; she has taken a great part in all I have done.\"\n\nNegus died in Hindhead, Surrey, on 15 July 1974, at the age of 87, survived by his wife and children. Negus's status in the history of laryngology in the UK was remarked on in his obituary in \"The Times\", which stated that he \"made a worthy fourth to Morell Mackenzie, Felix Semon, and St Clair Thomson\". Obituaries also appeared in a range of medical journals. In due course, biographical entries appeared in volume 6 of \"Lives of the Fellows of the Royal College of Surgeons of England\" (1988) and in the Oxford Dictionary of National Biography (2004). Two photographic portraits of Negus are held in the collections of the National Portrait Gallery in London. As well as archives relating to Negus, the Royal College of Surgeons of England houses in its one of its reserve collections (the Hunterian Museum Collection) over 200 sagittal sections of animals dissected by him. Additional collections of bisected animal heads prepared by Negus are held at the Grant Museum of Zoology and Comparative Anatomy in London.\n\n\n\n\n"}
