{"id": "57816901", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57816901", "title": "2018 BWF World Championships qualification", "text": "2018 BWF World Championships qualification\n\nThese are the lists of entries of 2018 BWF World Championships qualification.\n\nThis event holds men's singles and doubles, women's singles and doubles, and mixed doubles.\n\nThis event's total limit of eligibility players is 400 players, the following charts are the rules and the distribution.\n\nDue to the phase 2 updated by BWF, the following chart is the invitation results.\n\nDue to the phase 2 updated by BWF, the following chart is the invitation results.\n\nDue to the phase 2 updated by BWF, the following chart is the invitation results.\n\nDue to the phase 2 updated by BWF, the following chart is the invitation results.\n\nDue to the phase 2 updated by BWF, the following chart is the invitation results.\n\n"}
{"id": "47014620", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47014620", "title": "400-Mile Sale", "text": "400-Mile Sale\n\nThe 400-Mile Yard Sale, sometimes referred to as the Highway 68 Yard Sale, is an outdoor second-hand sale held annually for four days, beginning in the first weekend of June. It takes place along U.S. Route 68 (US 68) in the US state of Kentucky. It is held in almost all areas along the US 68 corridor from the east side of Paducah through central Kentucky, and ending at Maysville.\n\nIn 2011, the 400-Mile Yard Sale route added Kentucky Route 80 (KY 80) from Aurora to Murray, in Calloway and Marshall counties in Kentucky.\n\nHistorically, the 400-mile sale boosts the economy of most localities along the route, most notably in Glasgow, the county seat in Barren County, as that area has the highest economical impact annually, especially with the Glasgow Highland Games taking place during the same weekend as the sale.\n\nA stretch of the concurrently running US 68 and KY 80 in the Land Between the Lakes National Recreation Area in western Trigg County is excluded from the yard sale route because the recreation area is the property of a government organization, the U.S. Forest Service. Another gap in the sale route, a stretch of US 68 in Metropolitan Lexington and Fayette County is also excluded on account of high traffic volume, especially in downtown Lexington.\n\nA town-wide yard sale in the eastern Warren County town of Smiths Grove is often held during the US 68 Yard Sale just off the highway. Elkton, the Todd County seat also has a lot of yard sales during the event, even if on other streets. The Glasgow Highland Games at Barren River Lake State Resort Park, well south of the US 68 corridor along US Route 31E, is typically held during the same weekend as the 400 mile yard sale.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5675749", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5675749", "title": "Alive: 20 Years Later", "text": "Alive: 20 Years Later\n\nAlive: 20 Years Later is a 1993 documentary film produced, directed and written by Jill Fullerton-Smith and narrated by Martin Sheen.\n\nThe documentary focused on the lives (20 years later) of the 16 Uruguayan survivors of the airplane crash of Uruguayan Air Force Flight 571, which crashed into the Andes mountains on October 13, 1972. It also discussed their participation in the production of the 1993 feature film \"Alive: The Miracle of the Andes\".\n\nThe documentary was released as a companion to \"Alive: The Miracle of the Andes\". It is also included as an extra on the DVD of the 30th Anniversary Edition of \"Alive: The Miracle of the Andes\".\n\n"}
{"id": "9280145", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9280145", "title": "An Acquaintance with Darkness", "text": "An Acquaintance with Darkness\n\nAn Acquaintance with Darkness is a historical fiction novel by Ann Rinaldi. It is part of the Great Episodes series. It is told in first-person narration.\n\n\"An Acquaintance with Darkness\" is the story of 14-year-old Emily Pigbush who lives with her mother in Washington, D.C., in 1865. Emily's father died during the Civil War while fighting for the Union. Now the Pigbushes' final servant, Ella May, has left because she was freed, leaving Emily to care for her mother alone. However, Emily sometimes has the help of her close friend, sixteen-year-old Annie Surratt and Annie's brother Johnny a twenty-year-old, whose mother runs the boarding house across the street.\n\nEmily's mother is near death, and Emily hopes to go live with Annie afterward her mother dies because her father has died in a battle of Charleston. Emily's mother's only wish is that Emily at all costs \"not\" live with her uncle, Dr. Valentine Bransby, after her death. Soon, Emily's mother dies after hearing that the Civil War was over. But then, on April 15, 1865, President Abraham Lincoln is assassinated by John Wilkes Booth in Ford Theatre. Mrs. Mary Surratt, Annie's mother, comes under suspicion of the authorities, as she may have harbored Booth; Johnny Surrat is also wanted by the police for possibly being involved in the assassination. On Annie's advice, Emily reluctantly goes to live with her uncle, Dr. Valentine Bransby.\n\nLiving with Uncle Valentine, Emily learns that Valentine is actually quite a talented doctor who strives for more discoveries in the medical field with the changing times. Emily meets Valentine's assistant, Marietta, his housekeeper, Maude, and Maude's dwarf husband, Merry. She also meets Robert deGraaf, Valentine's medical student. As Emily later figures out, Valentine, Marietta, Robert, and Maude are involved in body snatching (cadaver theft) in Washington.\n\nEmily is at first disgusted by Valentine's deeds. However, after helping obtain an illegal body for her uncle for medical purposes, Emily realizes that her uncle is stealing bodies with the purpose of helping advance the medical field and saving more lives. Meanwhile, Mrs. Surratt, is publicly hanged along with several other accomplices, and Valentine, Robert, Annie, and Emily attend the execution. Annie sells her house and flees Washington, changing her name, and leaving Emily behind. In the end, Emily tells Robert that she would like to become a nurse one day and he replies that she can not only become a nurse, but a doctor instead.\n\n"}
{"id": "10836951", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10836951", "title": "Anatolian Tigers", "text": "Anatolian Tigers\n\nAnatolian Tigers () is a term internationally used in the context of the Turkish economy to refer to and to explain the phenomenon of a number of cities in Turkey which have displayed impressive growth records since the 1980s, as well as to a defined new breed of entrepreneurs rising in prominence and who can often be traced back to the cities in question and who generally rose from the status of SMEs. \n\nWhere particular cities are concerned, the term is most often used for the capitals or depending centers of Denizli, Gaziantep, Kayseri, Bursa, Konya, Kocaeli, Kahramanmaraş. Within Turkey, the accent is laid on cities that have received little state investments or subsidies over the years. Çorum, Denizli, Gaziantep and Kahramanmaraş, in particular, are cited among the cities who \"made it themselves\". In time order, while Denizli in Turkey's Aegean Region was the early hour precursor for rapid growth in an Anatolian Tiger pattern, Gaziantep, Malatya, Konya and Kayseri are the most recently cited prominent Tigers on the basis of the number of companies they have among Turkey's 500 biggest. These largest are the forerunners of further large companies and a multitude of smaller ones.\n\nAside from their production units, the definition generally excludes companies who have their headquarters in the largest cities of Turkey; namely İstanbul, Ankara, İzmir, Bursa and Adana, as well as companies constituted with public capital. \n\nThe term is also echoed, in the form \"Anatolian Lions\" (Turkish: \"Anadolu Aslanları\"), by the name of the private sector association Askon that brings together businessmen from a number of other cities who have found common grounds between each other. This association has branches in Ankara, Burdur, Bursa, Gebze, İzmit, Konya, Malatya and Trabzon. These lions are less often cited among the tigers for several reasons.\n\nOther variations of the term, such \"Turkey's Tigers\" or \"Turkish Tigers\", as used by the PBS without excluding the most commonly used form of \"Anatolian Tigers\" have also been pronounced.\n\nBeyond their shared characteristics in an economical perspective, references have also been made, especially in international media, to different political connotations within the term, including by associating this capital with Islamic values or extending its whole under such definitions as \"Islamic capital\" or \"green capital\". The political choices and the voting trends of the cities and of particulars in question may differ widely between each other. A 2005 study by the European Stability Initiative that was focused on Kayseri uses the term \"Islamic Calvinists\" to define the entrepreneurs and their values. \n\nSeveral business awards or conferences in Turkey draw reference from the term \"Anatolian Tigers\" or its variants. \n\nThe term was copied after the \"Asian Tigers\".\n\nAccording to the 2005 Istanbul Chamber of Industry's annual ranking of Turkey's top 1000 industrial enterprises, the adjacent table contains cities which best fit the definition of Anatolian Tigers. Among these cities Trabzon has one company in top 25.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2194", "title": "April 5", "text": "April 5\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "410512", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=410512", "title": "Battle of Lake Regillus", "text": "Battle of Lake Regillus\n\nThe Battle of Lake Regillus was a legendary Roman victory over the Latin League shortly after the establishment of the Roman Republic and as part of a wider Latin War. The Latins were led by an elderly Lucius Tarquinius Superbus, the seventh and last King of Rome, who had been expelled in 509 BC, and his son-in-law, Octavius Mamilius, the dictator of Tusculum. The battle marked the final attempt of the Tarquins to reclaim their throne. According to legend, Castor and Pollux fought on the side of the Romans.\n\nThe threat of invasion by Rome's former allies in Latium led to the appointment of Aulus Postumius Albus as dictator.\n\nThe year in which the battle occurred is unclear, and has been since ancient times. Livy places the battle in 499 BC, but says some of his sources also suggest the battle occurred during Postumius' consulship in 496 BC. The other major source for this historical period, Dionysius of Halicarnassus also places the battle in 496 BC. Modern authors have also suggested 493 BC or 489 BC.\n\nLake Regillus was located in the relic of a volcanic crater between Rome and Tusculum. The lake was drained in the fourth century BC.\n\nAccording to Livy, the Volsci (a neighbouring tribe to the south of Latium) had raised troops to send to the aid of the Latins against Rome, however the haste of the Roman dictator in joining battle meant that the Volscian forces did not arrive in time.\n\nThe dictator Postumius led the Roman infantry, while Titus Aebutius Elva was Master of the Horse. Tarquin was accompanied by his eldest and last remaining son, Titus. It was said that the presence of the Tarquinii caused the Romans to fight more passionately than in any previous battle.\n\nEarly in the battle, the king was injured attacking Postumius. The magister equitum charged at Mamilius, and both were wounded: Aebutius in the arm, and the Latin dictator in the chest. The magister equitum had to withdraw from the field, and direct his troops from a distance. The king's soldiers, including many exiled Romans, began to overpower the republican forces, and the Romans suffered a setback when Marcus Valerius Volusus (consul in 505 BC) was killed by a spear while attacking Titus Tarquinius, but Postumius brought fresh troops from his own bodyguard, and halted the exiles' progress.\n\nMeanwhile, Titus Herminius Aquilinus, who had won fame fighting alongside Horatius at the Sublician bridge, and served as consul in 506 BC, engaged Mamilius and slew him; but while attempting to strip his fallen enemy and claim the spoils, Herminius was killed by a javelin. As the outcome of the battle seemed in doubt, Postumius ordered the cavalry to dismount and attack on foot, forcing the Latins to retreat and capturing the Latin camp. Tarquin and the Latin army abandoned the field, resulting in a decisive Roman victory. Postumius returned to Rome with his army, and celebrated a triumph.\n\nA popular legend reported that the Dioscuri, Castor and Pollux, fought alongside the Romans, transfigured as two young horsemen. Postumius ordered a temple built in their honour in the Roman Forum, in the place where they had watered their horses.\n\nIn the nineteenth century, the battle was celebrated in Thomas Macaulay's \"Lays of Ancient Rome\".\n\n</div>\n</div>\n"}
{"id": "45708311", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45708311", "title": "Blockupy movement", "text": "Blockupy movement\n\nBlockupy is a movement protesting against austerity. The Blockupy alliance includes trade unions and Germany's \"Linkspartei\".\n\nRepresenting grass-roots critics of supranational financial institutions such as the “troika”: the European Commission (EC), European Central Bank (ECB) and International Monetary Fund (IMF), its name is derived from the Occupy movement which sprang up in Wall Street in 2011.\n\nOrganisers have verbally supported (since July 2015, former) Greek finance minister Yanis Varoufakis's criticism that ECB policy towards Athens is “asphyxiating”.\n\nThousands of people attended the first demonstration in Frankfurt in 2012.\n\nIn 2013, protests in Frankfurt were met with heavy police violence. A peaceful demonstration was stopped, 1000 protesters were kettled for hours, and hundreds were injured, several severely. Police action was criticized heavily afterward nationally and internationally.\n\nOn 18 March 2015, the day of the opening of the Seat of the European Central Bank, Blockupy organized a major protest in Frankfurt attended by between 17,000 and 20,000 people from Germany and other parts of Europe, including 10,000 people at the main rally. The Seat of the European Central Bank, the ECB's new headquarters, was selected as the venue for the demonstration so as to highlight the contradiction between the ECB's lavish spending on its own US$1.4-billion building while forcing cuts and market reforms on countries like Greece and Cyprus. Ulrich Wilken, an organiser, said: “Our protest is against the ECB, as a member of the troika, that, despite the fact that it is not democratically elected, hinders the work of the Greek government. We want the austerity politics to end.” The pan-European protests included members of Greece's radical left governing party Syriza and Spain's anti-corruption Podemos.\nThe day included both peaceful protest and violent direct action. 10,000 people met at Römerberg, where speakers included Sahra Wagenknecht from the \"Linkspartei\", globalization critic Naomi Klein, comedian Urban Priol, Giorgios Chondros from Syriza and Miguel Urbán from Podemos. On the other side of Frankfurt, around 3,000 attempted to break through the security fence of the ECB. At least 350 people were arrested, and 280 people were injured, among them 150 police officers and 130 protesters from Blockupy. Violent scenes were reported. Organisers said police sparked this violence with provocative actions, and described it as \"not what Blockupy planned\", while the Gewerkschaft der Polizei police union claimed that the violent protesters were organized and rejected claims of provocation. The leader of the Hesse branch of the \"Linkspartei\", a member of the Blockupy alliance, said that the Blockupy movement had \"failed\" in its aim to offer peaceful protest and had brought the wider anti-capitalist movement into disrepute, a claim which was rejected by some of his party colleagues. The Blockupy representative from the Attac group described themselves as \"appalled and saddened by some actions\", but said that the majority of the protest was justified civil disobedience. Blockupy organizers from the Ums Ganze and Interventionist Left groups explicitly refused to distance themselves from the violence and expressed joy over the events. Alongside the official members of the Blockupy alliance, the protests were also possibly attended by small groups at the opposite end of the political spectrum, including members of the far-right and neo-Nazis, although their number has not been determined. The Federal Office for the Protection of the Constitution announced an investigation into whether the uninvited right-wing groups played a role in the violence that followed.\nProtesters attacked police officers with stones ahead of the demonstration. Video footage showed police dragging at least one person away. Police used tear gas, water cannons and pepper spray against people in the ECB area, and in turn reported that \"pepper spray or an acidic liquid\" had been used against officers. As well as the action against the ECB, some attendees also targeted private cars, shops, banks, firefighters and transport infrastructure. Eight bus and tram stops were vandalised, causing around €50,000 of damage, and trams and fire engines were attacked with stones. According to police figures, 30 cars, including some police vehicles, were set on fire. A home for refugees was also supposedly attacked and staff threatened, which later turned out to be incorrect.\n\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "41219113", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41219113", "title": "Carnival Queen", "text": "Carnival Queen\n\nCarnival Queen, or sometimes Carnaval Queen, is the name or title given to a woman or a girl who is chosen to perform official duties during the celebration of the Carnival, a festive season which occurs immediately before Lent wherein the main events are usually held annually in February. The title is also given to a woman or a girl who has won the beauty and talent competition during the Carnival, or a woman who won a beauty and talent contest and thus become the representative during the celebration of the Carnival. \n\nOne notable place in Spain that elects a new Carnival Queen every year is Santa Cruz de Tenerife. On the other hand, the Carnival in Tarragona - also in Spain - starts with the building of a huge barrel and the later ends with the burning of that barrel together with the burning of the effigies of the Carnival Queen and the Carnival King, a symbolic ritual that signifies bidding \"farewell to the flesh\" (literally \"to remove meat\") by men and women - such as from their diet - before the Lenten season, a form of human renewal, because meat or the \"flesh\" is prohibited during Lent.\n\n"}
{"id": "20216813", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20216813", "title": "Conflicts involving Critical Mass", "text": "Conflicts involving Critical Mass\n\nThere have been many conflicts during Critical Mass events since the founding of the worldwide bicycling advocacy event in 1992. The conflicts have resulted in injuries, property damage, and arrests, and both bicyclists and motorized vehicle drivers have been victims. Critics say that Critical Mass, held primarily in large metropolitan cities, is a deliberate attempt to obstruct automotive traffic and disrupt normal city functions, when individuals taking part refuse to obey traffic laws, while participants variously consider it a celebration of cycling, of cyclists' rights, and a practical re-imagining of urban space.\n\nOn May 11, 2007, an incident occurred in Berkeley, California, when an elderly motorist stopped at an intersection with dozens of bicycles crossing. Activists claim that the driver shouted, while bicyclists were in the intersection, \"I'm sick of you people!\" Police have not determined who had the right-of-way. The driver attempted to drive through the intersection. The motorist and his wife, two witnesses, and the police all claimed that the cyclists threw their bicycles under the vehicle. This was disputed by other witnesses. Critical Mass participants then rocked the vehicle, pounded the hood, and broke the windshield while verbally abusing the elderly couple. Approximately $3,000 worth of damage was done to the bicycles. Berkeley police did not make any arrests in the incident.\n\nOn May 30, 2003, in Buffalo, New York, during an incident known locally as \"Critical Massacre,\" police stopped two cyclists for \"failure to yield to an emergency vehicle.\" Several people were allegedly attacked by police. Nine cyclists were arrested and three were later convicted, including a journalist.\n\nChicago Police Department officers are often seen riding with Critical Mass participants, and squad cars block intersections to provide safe passage to Critical Mass cyclists. However, on August 31, 2007, seven riders were arrested on charges of obstructing traffic and disobeying police, and were held overnight. According to some of those arrested, they were released late at night or early in the morning. On multiple occasions, Critical Mass participants attempted to ride on Lake Shore Drive, a road off limits to cyclists. Police prevented participants riding on Lake Shore Drive, by blocking entrance ramps with squad cars when Critical Mass riders approach the road.\n\nAt dusk on March 28, 2008, in Honolulu, Hawaii, police collided with a young woman on a bicycle while trying to stop another bicyclist for traffic infractions. The young woman fell and hit her head on the ground, sustaining injuries requiring hospitalization. While no arrests were made, the police did issue citations and confiscate bicycles.\n\nDue to the gradual increase of cyclists participating in Critical Mass, as well as complaints from motorists and concerns for safety, Houston Police Department officers helped direct the October 2013 Critical Mass ride in Houston, Texas by controlling intersections on the bike route. In January 2014, after two months of providing free security and safe passage through heavy intersections, the Houston Police Department began considering options to charge the group for providing security for the event, citing similarities to providing security for funeral processions through the city limits. Some Critical Mass riders have spoken out in protest of paying a fee to utilize extra security and escorting through busy intersections, while many others support paying fees for extra security to keep the ride safe, which has led to increased discussions between the city and group for additional alternatives to the building conflicts.\n\nIn London on September 2005, a few weeks after the 7 July 2005 bombings, Metropolitan Police required the organisers to provide a route six days before the event and placed strict restrictions on riders under threat of arrest. The threat was retracted when politicians and cyclist groups objected. In October 2005, the ride had close to 1,200 participants, significantly more than usual. A long stop in Parliament Square, part of the government's exclusion area in the Serious Organised Crime and Police Act 2005, led to a slow and cumbersome ride.\n\nOne participant sought a declaration from the High Court of England and Wales that police need not be notified about the rides, in a \"friendly action\" in which neither side sought damages. The High Court agreed, exempting Critical Mass from notification under Section 11 of the Public Order Act 1986. The ruling was reversed on appeal. In 2008, Friends of the Earth, who supported the legal action, said the case would be appealed to England's highest legal authority, the House of Lords, on the grounds that, after 11 years, Critical Mass is \"commonly or customarily held.\" In October 2008, the House of Lords ruled in favour of the Critical Mass participant.\n\nDuring the 2012 Summer Olympics, cyclists were arrested on opening day after police claim they ignored regulations in place during the Olympics. Jenny Jones of the Green Party and the Greater London Assembly has questioned the police actions, calling them \"out of all proportion to common sense\" and \"tragically unnecessary.\" A Critical Mass website asked riders to be \"peacefully assertive\" during the monthly ride, while police claim they asked riders to keep to the south of the River Thames. When the riders got close to the Olympic Park, police began to cordon off the area and arrest riders. In total, 182 people were arrested, of whom 4 were charged, and 178 were bailed pending further inquiries. The action led to 5 of the 182 people arrested being convicted in court.\n\nOn the August 31, 2007, ride in Minneapolis, Minnesota, a confrontation occurred between cyclists and the police. The police presence included undercover officers, three marked squad cars, a state patrol helicopter, and unmarked vehicles. The ride had been linked with weekend protests of the following year's Republican National Convention. After the arrest of a cyclist for \"riding in a snake-like manner,\" cyclists began chanting \"Let him go!\" and \"What's the charge?\" The police called for backup, and dozens of police officers responded, using mace and tasers. Minneapolis police arrested 19 participants, including three minors. The adults were arrested on suspicion of rioting, a gross misdemeanor.\n\nOn May 27, 2011, in Minsk, Belarus, police forces aided by special units transported 13 cyclists to the police station for violation of traffic rules and for not following orders to disband. Detained participants were fingerprinted and fined, then released.\n\nOn April 30, 2016 two cyclists were arrested during a Critical Mass action. As of September 2016, one was released and the other is facing trial.\n\nPolice in New York City have claimed that Critical Mass bicyclists blocking intersections to allow bikes to pass may delay emergency vehicles in the gridlock.\n\nDuring the US 2004 Republican National Convention, police arrested 250 riders after the ride caused \"massive disruptions\" in the city. Many court cases resulted regarding the legality of the ride, whether police have the right to arrest cyclists and seize bicycles, and whether the event needs a permit. In December 2004, a federal judge dismissed New York City's injunction against Critical Mass as a \"political event.\" On March 23, 2005, the city filed a lawsuit seeking to prevent Time's Up!, a direct action environmental group, from promoting or advertising Critical Mass rides. The lawsuit also stated that Time's Up! and the public could not ride or gather at a Critical Mass bike ride, claiming a permit was required.\n\nDuring a bicycle rally on July 25, 2008, NYPD patrolman Patrick Pogan pushed rider Christopher Long off his bicycle. In a criminal complaint, Pogan wrote that he had ordered Long to stop because he was weaving in and out of traffic, forcing vehicles to swerve or stop, and generally disrupting the normal flow of traffic. In addition, Pogan wrote that he suffered lacerations on his arms because Long steered his bike into him and knocked him down, and when he tried to place Long under arrest, Long began flailing, kicking and screaming, \"You are pawns in the game!\" Long spent the next day in police custody on charges of attempted assault, resisting arrest and disorderly conduct.\n\nWithin days, members of the rally's sponsoring organization Time's Up! posted a video of the incident on YouTube. The video went viral and received over 400,000 hits within five days. Critical Mass activists claimed it supported their claims that the police department has demonstrated a pattern of arresting participants in the rally on false charges. Witnesses also disputed Pogan's account, saying that Long was the one to receive injuries, traffic was stopped for the rally, and that Pogan had simply scanned the group of cyclists to find one he could take down.\n\nThe union that represents NYPD officers said Pogan was just doing his job to protect the public from a reckless bike rider, and Pogan's father — himself a retired NYPD detective — defended him, saying \"You gotta do what you gotta do to make an arrest.\" The prosecutor's office dismissed the charges against Long. NYPD placed Pogan, who had spent only three weeks as a police officer, on a desk assignment while the city investigated the incident.\n\nOn December 16, 2008, Pogan appeared in court and pleaded not guilty to felony charges of falsifying business records and filing a false instrument, and misdemeanor charges of third-degree assault, second-degree harassment and making a punishable false written statement. After the indictment, the police department suspended Pogan and, two months later, Pogan resigned as the department prepared to fire him. His attorney said that his defense would center on the department's training procedures and claims that events occurring off-camera needed to be taken into account.\n\nOn July 8, 2009, it was reported that Long, then a Hoboken, NJ, resident, was suing the New York Police Department for $1.5 million, alleging that Pogan falsified his arrest report in order to legitimize his assault on Long.\n\nDuring his trial in April 2010, Pogan acknowledged that the video looked \"very extreme.\" He testified that he had anticipated a collision with Long, since the rider lowered his right shoulder as the officer approached. Jurors found Pogan not guilty of harassment and assault and acquitted him of four of the seven counts of which he had been charged. He was found guilty of filing a criminal complaint that contained false statements concerning the cyclist. Pogan received no jail time but, because he is a convicted felon, he is not eligible to become a New York City police officer in the future. Long said in an interview that he was pleased with the verdict, in part because it would prevent Pogan from becoming a New York City police officer again.\n\nOn February 25, 2011, an automobile driver deliberately collided with around 20 cyclists that were participating in a Critical Mass event in Rua José do Patrocinio in Porto Alegre, southern Brazil. Out of approximately 150 people that were taking part in the event, dozens of bicycles were damaged, 15 people were injured and eight were transported to the emergency room. While the driver left the scene of the incident, demonstrators remained on the street, demanding that the driver be found and arrested. The driver was later identified as 47-year-old Ricardo José Neis. After Neis gave his statement to the police, his attorney, Luis Fernando Coimbra Albino, stated that the Neis was acting in self-defense after several cyclists threatened him and his son and assaulted his car. According to witnesses present at the event, Neis was acting violently behind the bicycles and hit the rear wheels of two different cyclists, and any contact from the cyclists on his car was meant as a sign asking him to slow the vehicle down. Witnesses also reported that Neis had two different transversal roads he could have taken to avoid waiting for the cyclists to proceed. On March 1, 2011, Neis attempted to transfer from a hospital to a psychiatric clinic, but this request was rejected by court officials. He was held in the hospital under police custody, but was later released and indicted under 17 counts of attempted murder. One of the most severely injured cyclists, 23-year-old Ricardo Mattes Ambus, was readmitted to the hospital on March 3, 2011, due to an intracranial haematoma.\n\nDuring the following week, between February 28 and March 6, 2011, many protests in support of Critical Mass Porto Alegre were organized in several major cities in South America and around the world. In response, local cyclists organized the World Bike Forum in Porto Alegre to raise awareness of violence in traffic against cyclists. The first Forum took place during the anniversary of the incident.\n\nOn November 24, 2016, Ricardo Neis was sentenced to 12 years and 9 months in jail for attempted murder and aggravated assault.\n\nOn the night of July 25, 1997, in San Francisco, the ride attracted 5,000 participants, which resulted in congested traffic, confrontations with motorists, and arrests. Interest and tension had been growing for several weeks due to increased rhetoric from then-Mayor Willie Brown regarding cracking down on the event. The local newspapers published a city-approved route after the mayor withdrew his threat to have bicyclists arrested for not obtaining a parade permit. Because of the large turnout, it was difficult if not impossible for cyclists to follow the sanctioned route. Riders instead found themselves engaged in verbal and physical altercations with motorists and police, as well as among themselves. Two officers reported injuries in confrontations with bike riders. Local media reported that \"about 250\" bicyclists were arrested, most for disrupting traffic, and a few for being drunk in public, battery, and outstanding warrants.\n\nOn the March 2007 ride in San Francisco, a rider was arrested on felony (later reduced to misdemeanor) charges in San Francisco's Tenderloin neighborhood for denting a limousine using a bicycle lock. The driver told police he got out of his car to talk to two cyclists who allegedly blocked his path. After exchanging words with one of the cyclists, the driver said he grabbed one of the bicycles and tried to pull it out of the way. He then got back into his limo to go around the riders, but before he could move, he said, another cyclist ran into the side of his car, then punched the hood with a U-shaped lock. The cyclist told police he only hit the limousine after the driver gunned his engine. During the incident, one of the limousine's tires was slashed and the driver's keys were stolen.\n\nTowards the end of the ride, near the Japan Center and Western Addition neighborhoods, a mother from Redwood City, California, traveling with her two young daughters in the vehicle, tried to drive through the mass of riders. A witness claimed to have observed the driver strike a cyclist and flee before cyclists chased and surrounded her vehicle. The driver denied striking a cyclist and alleged that hundreds of cyclists surrounded her minivan while she and her 11- and 13-year-old daughters were inside, banged on her car, scratched the paint, and threw a bicycle through the rear window of the vehicle, causing $5,300 in damages.\n\nIn April 2007, San Francisco Mayor Gavin Newsom requested that Critical Mass riders police themselves. \"It does the bicycle-advocacy community no good to have people that are aggressive and dispirit the entire movement,\" Newsom said. \"I would encourage the bicycle coalition to say, 'Look, we don't put up with this, enough is enough.' \"\n\nIn November 2009, Stanley Roberts of KRON 4 News recorded several Critical Mass confrontations between bicyclists and vehicles at Van Ness and O'Farrell Streets. An old Critical Mass website advised riders not to be confrontational and block traffic, but in footage filmed by Roberts, bicyclists engaged in confrontational arguments with motorists and blocked roads to vehicular traffic.\n\nIn August 2015, KQED posted an article on a Critical Mass confrontation between a bicyclist and a female Zipcar driver in the San Francisco Marina District. 39 year old Ian Hespelt was arrested a few days later by the San Francisco Police Department's bicycle patrol at AT&T Park during the Billy Joel concert. Hespelt was charged with four felonies including assault, vandalism, maliciously throwing a substance at a vehicle and false imprisonment. Hespelt was also wanted in Washington state on a felony drug charge warrant.\n\nTwo riders were arrested during the June 2006 ride in Seattle, Washington, after a fight with two undercover detectives whom the cyclists confused for gang members. Witnesses disputed the claim made by the sheriff's office that the detectives identified themselves. The King County Sheriff's Office decided not to press felony charges in the case, saying there were too many issues over the circumstances surrounding the allegations.\n\nOn July 25, 2008, Critical Mass prevented a motorist from driving from a curbside parking space into cyclists in Seattle's Critical Mass on East Aloha. The motorist made statements to Seattle police that he drove away, hitting bicycles and riders (one of them an attorney), and told the press that he \"freaked out and overreacted\" when bicyclists threatened to tip his vehicle. According to some witnesses, the motorist drove into at least two cyclists and tried to flee.\n\nA group of riders caught the vehicle, broke its rear windshield, slashed the tires, and assaulted the motorist when he got out. Damage to the car was estimated at $1,500. The motorist was struck in the back of his head by a bike lock and later hospitalized. Two cyclists were arrested for vandalism to the car. Seattle police did not charge the motorist.\n\nOn July 27, 2007, in Vilnius, Lithuania, police took five participants into custody, including two minors, for not following orders to disband.\n\nIn Walnut Creek, California, on June 20, 2008, a car bumped into the rear wheel of a Critical Mass rider. An argument ensued among the driver and passenger of the car and the cyclist involved, after which the passenger and driver of the car assaulted the cyclist. The police arrived and arrested the passenger and driver of the automobile involved in the assault.\n\nOn June 21, 2002, in Warsaw, Poland, the Critical Mass event was stopped by a cordon of fully armed riot police on Plac Konstytucji (Constitution Square), who demanded their dispersal and detained some of the participants. Other Critical Mass participants responded with a sit-in protest, blocking an important traffic junction, and then tried to evade the blockade by taking different routes to Plac Zamkowy (Castle Square), the Critical Mass rally point. This event was widely reported by the media and, as a result, the Warsaw municipality decided to legalize future events, rather than escalate the conflict. Beginning in September 2002, Critical Mass events in Warsaw are organized in full cooperation with the police force. Once a year in August, beginning in 2007, a special Critical Mass is organized in cooperation with the city officials to commemorate the Warsaw Uprising.\n\nOn March 28, 2013, in Buenos Aires, Argentina, a taxi driver ran over a group of Critical Mass riders, injuring 2 cyclists, before fleeing from the scene.\n"}
{"id": "96598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=96598", "title": "Cornerstone Festival", "text": "Cornerstone Festival\n\nCornerstone Festival was a Christian music festival put on by Jesus People USA and held annually around July 4 near Bushnell, Illinois, drawing some 20,000 attendees each year. In a given year, many artists that played at Cornerstone also played at other events such as Creation Festival and mainstream festivals and tours such as the Warped Tour. The final festival was held in 2012.\n\nCornerstone Festival was a member of the Christian Festival Association.\n\nFrom 1984 to 1990, Cornerstone was held at the Lake County Fairgrounds near Grayslake, Illinois. In 1991, Cornerstone moved near the town of Bushnell (outside Macomb) where the organizers of the festival purchased a large piece of land, which is now called \"Cornerstone Farm\".\n\nTens of thousands of people attended Cornerstone Farm each year and saw over 300 bands play many styles of music, including rock, metal, punk, hardcore and pop music. In addition to the many musicians, Cornerstone Festival also presented guest speakers, and featured independent/foreign film screenings, writers' seminars, and art workshops.\nIn 2010 the festival's main stage moved to the \"Midway\", which is about 0.7 miles northeast of its previous location in the \"bowl\".\n\nThe 2011 festival featured a Jesus Rally showcasing many of the groundbreaking Jesus music artists including; Servant, Daniel Amos, Randy Stonehill, Barry McGuire, Resurrection Band, Phil Keaggy, and Classic Petra.\n\nOn May 15, 2012 it was announced that the 2012 Festival will be the last. The final song performed at Cornerstone, on July 7, 2012, was \"To Bid Farewell\" performed by Derri Daugherty and Steve Hindalong of The Choir.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47205287", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47205287", "title": "Death and state funeral of Raúl Alfonsín", "text": "Death and state funeral of Raúl Alfonsín\n\nRaúl Alfonsín was the president of Argentina from 1983 to 1989. He died on March 31, 2009, aged 82. He had lung cancer and died at his home; a massive candlelight vigil took place in the vicinity of it. Vice president Julio Cobos, the acting president at the time, arranged three days of national mourning and a state funeral at the Palace of the Argentine National Congress. Alfonsín was seen by 40,000 people and the senior politicians of the country; people from other countries also voiced their respect for him. A military escort took his coffin to the La Recoleta Cemetery, and left him at the pantheon for the veterans of the Revolution of the Park.\n\nAlfonsín had lung cancer for almost a year before his death, which led to pneumonia. His medic Alejandro Sandler explained that his health had worsened at several points, which were followed by brief recoveries. In his last days he was visited by vice president Julio Cobos and monsignor Justo Laguna, who gave him the Anointing of the Sick. He received home care, as Sandler preferred him to stay with his family. The president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner was out of the country and phoned several times; Ricardo Alfonsín called her at 17:00 and informed her of his father's health. He died on March 31, 2009, at 20:30; Sandler announced it at 21:03. Alfonsín was sleeping at the moment, next to his family. Cobos was the first politician to arrive at his home.\n\nWhen the first news of the death of Alfonsín were released, the vicinity of his house at the Santa Fe avenue was filled by hundreds of people, who started a Candlelight vigil. The multitude included friends, neighbors and political supporters. The politicians Felipe Solá and Ricardo Gil Lavedra attended the meeting as well. The balconies of nearby houses were filled with flowers and banners. \n\nThe president Cristina Fernández de Kirchner was out of the country at the moment, and although she arranged an early return, she could not return to the country in time for the funeral. As a result, the vice president Julio Cobos arranged the state funeral of Alfonsín, alongside Eduardo Fellner (president of the Chamber of deputies) and José Pampuro (acting president of the Senate). His widow, former First Lady of Argentina María Lorenza Barreneche, was unable to attend her husband's public state funeral due to her own declining health.\n\nAs a former Argentine president, his body was displayed at the Blue Hall of the Palace of the Argentine National Congress. He also set three days of national mourning, from March 31 to April 2. Daniel Scioli, governor of the Buenos Aires Province (birthplace of Alfonsín), also announced a provincial mourning. Almost a thousand people attended, and at some moments they sang the Argentine National Anthem.\n\nThe people were allowed to enter to the Congress on April 1, 10:00. Initially, it was intended to keep the Congress open until 20:00, but the number of people attending it forced to delay it for the morning of April 2. The event was attended by the former presidents Carlos Menem, Fernando de la Rúa, Eduardo Duhalde and Néstor Kirchner, all the members of the Supreme Court of Argentina, mayor Mauricio Macri, governor Daniel Scioli, the president of Uruguay Tabaré Vázquez and several other politicians. The Congress was visited by almost 40,000 people. It was the largest state funeral in Argentina since the death of Juan Perón in 1974.\n\nThere was a ceremony afterwards with speeches from politicians from Alfonsín's tenure and from the Kirchner administration. The ceremony was aired in \"cadena nacional\". It was followed by a mass given by José María Arancedo, archbishop of Santa Fe. Finally, a procession in the Callao Avenue with a military escort took the corpse to the La Recoleta Cemetery. People threw flowers to the coffin, fly Argentine and radical flags, and sung the national anthem. He was left in the pantheon for the veterans of the Revolution of the Park, until he got a special one for himself.\n\nTwenty-two Argentine bishops at the Holy See held a mass for Alfonsín as well. It was at the Archbasilica of St. John Lateran, and was attended by the Argentine ambassador Juan Pablo Cafiero, the Italian monsignor Giuseppe Laterza and the Argentine monsignor Guillermo Karcher. The bishops met Pope Benedict XVI the following day.\n\nThe living former presidents of Argentina sent their condolences for Alfonsín. Carlos Menem said that his death was a great loss for democracy. He also wrote an editorial for the \"La Nación\" newspaper, titled \"Un viejo adversario saluda a un amigo\" (), mirroring the famous quotation of the radical leader Ricardo Balbín during the funeral of Perón. Fernando de la Rúa said that \"he fought all his life for politics and democracy. He raised up the values of democracy. Respect and affection were always present in him\". Eduardo Duhalde described him as a family friend, and said Argentina lost a great man. Néstor Kirchner praised the trial of the Juntas. He also received condolences of José Sarney, Patricio Aylwin and Julio María Sanguinetti, contemporary presidents of Brazil, Chile and Uruguay. The governments of Brazil, Chile, Colombia, France, Mexico, Paraguay, Peru, Spain, United States and Uruguay also sent messages of condolences.\n\nRicardo López Murphy, minister of economy of president Fernando de la Rúa, said that Alfonsín was \"the man who fought for our democracy and the strengthening of institutions, during a time of conflicts and polarizations that our society was merged into\". Cristian Ritondo, legislator of the Republican Proposal, said that \"Alfonsín was the main actor of the return of democracy to Argentina. He was a sinonym of work, responsibility and patriotism\". Gerardo Morales said that \"when we were young in 1983 and sang 'we are life, we are peace', it was more than a slogan, it was a synthesis of our hopes: do not suffer more persecutions, live in democracy, in freedom and peace. We were part of the collective project led by Alfonsín\". Elisa Carrió pointed that she had political disputes with him, but respected him nonetheless. Julio César Strassera, judge of the trial of the juntas, hoped that Alfonsín would be remembered as a great democrat. Daniel Scioli, governor of the Buenos Aires province, praised that he died with a complete peace of mind. Mauricio Macri, mayor of Buenos Aires, considered that he must have died in peace, after fulfilling his goals.\n\n"}
{"id": "211889", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=211889", "title": "Electrical injury", "text": "Electrical injury\n\nElectrical injury is a physiological reaction caused by electric current passing through the (human) body. Electric shock occurs upon contact of a (human) body part with any source of electricity that causes a sufficient magnitude of current to pass through the victim's flesh, viscera or hair. Physical contact with energized wiring or devices is the most common cause of an electric shock. In cases of exposure to high voltages, such as on a power transmission tower, physical contact with energized wiring or objects may not be necessary to cause electric shock, as the voltage may be sufficient to \"jump\" the air gap between the electrical device and the victim.\n\nThe injury related to electric shock depends on the magnitude of the current. Very small currents may be imperceptible or produce a light tingling sensation. A shock caused by low current that would normally be harmless could startle an individual and cause injury due to suddenly jerking away from the source of electricity, resulting in one striking a stationary object, dropping an object being held or falling. Stronger currents may cause some degree of discomfort or pain, while more intense currents may induce involuntary muscle contractions, preventing the victim from breaking free of the source of electricity. Still larger currents usually result in tissue damage and may trigger fibrillation of the heart or cardiac arrest, any of which may ultimately be fatal. If death results from an electric shock the cause of death is generally referred to as electrocution. \n\nHeating due to resistance can cause extensive and deep burns. Voltage levels of 500 to 1000 volts tend to cause internal burns due to the large energy (which is proportional to the duration multiplied by the square of the voltage divided by resistance) available from the source. Damage due to current is through tissue heating. For most cases of high-energy electrical trauma, the Joule heating in the deeper tissues along the extremity will reach damaging temperatures in a few seconds.\n\nA domestic power supply voltage (110 or 230 V), 50 or 60 Hz alternating current (AC) through the chest for a fraction of a second may induce ventricular fibrillation at currents as low as . With direct current (DC), 300 to 500 mA is required. If the current has a direct pathway to the heart (e.g., via a cardiac catheter or other kind of electrode), a much lower current of less than 1 mA (AC or DC) can cause fibrillation. If not immediately treated by defibrillation, fibrillation is usually lethal because all of the heart muscle fibres move independently instead of in the coordinated pulses needed to pump blood and maintain circulation. Above 200 mA, muscle contractions are so strong that the heart muscles cannot move at all, but these conditions prevent fibrillation.\n\nCurrent can cause interference with nervous control, especially over the heart and lungs. Repeated or severe electric shock which does not lead to death has been shown to cause neuropathy. Recent research has found that functional differences in neural activation during spatial working memory and implicit learning oculomotor tasks have been identified in electrical shock victims.\n\nWhen the current path is through the head, it appears that, with sufficient current applied, loss of consciousness almost always occurs swiftly. (This is borne out by some limited self-experimentation by early designers of the electric chair and by research from the field of animal husbandry, where electric stunning has been extensively studied).\n\nOSHA found that up to 80 percent of its electrical injuries involve thermal burns due to arcing faults. The arc flash in an electrical fault produces the same type of light radiation from which electric welders protect themselves using face shields with dark glass, heavy leather gloves, and full-coverage clothing. The heat produced may cause severe burns, especially on unprotected flesh. The arc blast produced by vaporizing metallic components can break bones and damage internal organs. The degree of hazard present at a particular location can be determined by a detailed analysis of the electrical system, and appropriate protection worn if the electrical work must be performed with the electricity on.\n\nThe minimum current a human can feel depends on the current type (AC or DC) as well as frequency for AC. A person can feel at least 1 mA (rms) of AC at 60 Hz, while at least 5 mA for DC. At around 10 milliamperes, AC current passing through the arm of a human can cause powerful muscle contractions; the victim is unable to voluntarily control muscles and cannot release an electrified object. This is known as the \"let go threshold\" and is a criterion for shock hazard in electrical regulations.\n\nThe current may, if it is high enough and is delivered at sufficient voltage, cause tissue damage or fibrillation which can cause cardiac arrest; of AC (rms, 60 Hz) or of DC at high voltage can cause fibrillation. A sustained electric shock from AC at 120 V, 60 Hz is an especially dangerous source of ventricular fibrillation because it usually exceeds the let-go threshold, while not delivering enough initial energy to propel the person away from the source. However, the potential seriousness of the shock depends on paths through the body that the currents take. If the voltage is less than 200 V, then the human skin, more precisely the stratum corneum, is the main contributor to the impedance of the body in the case of a macroshock—the passing of current between two contact points on the skin. The characteristics of the skin are non-linear however. If the voltage is above 450–600 V, then dielectric breakdown of the skin occurs. The protection offered by the skin is lowered by perspiration, and this is accelerated if electricity causes muscles to contract \nabove the let-go threshold for a sustained period of time.\n\nIf an electrical circuit is established by electrodes introduced in the body, bypassing the skin, then the potential for lethality is much higher if a circuit through the heart is established. This is known as a microshock. Currents of only 10 µA can be sufficient to cause fibrillation in this case with a probability of 0.2%.\n\nThe voltage necessary for electrocution depends on the current through the body and the duration of the current. Ohm's law states that the current drawn depends on the resistance of the body. The resistance of human skin varies from person to person and fluctuates between different times of day. The NIOSH states \"Under dry conditions, the resistance offered by the human body may be as high as 100,000 ohms. Wet or broken skin may drop the body's resistance to 1,000 ohms,\" adding that \"high-voltage electrical energy quickly breaks down human skin, reducing the human body's resistance to 500 ohms\".\n\nThe International Electrotechnical Commission gives the following values for the total body impedance of a hand to hand circuit for dry skin, large contact areas, 50 Hz AC currents (the columns contain the distribution of the impedance in the population percentile; for example at 100 V 50% of the population had an impedance of 1875Ω or less):\n\nThe voltage-current characteristic of human skin is non-linear and depends on many factors such as intensity, duration, history, and frequency of the electrical stimulus. Sweat gland activity, temperature, and individual variation also influence the voltage-current characteristic of skin. In addition to non-linearity, skin impedance exhibits asymmetric and time varying properties. These properties can be modeled with reasonable accuracy. Resistance measurements made at low voltage using a standard ohmmeter do not accurately represent the impedance of human skin over a significant range of conditions.\n\nFor sinusoidal electrical stimulation less than 10 volts, the skin voltage-current characteristic is quasilinear. Over time, electrical characteristics can become non-linear. The time required varies from seconds to minutes, depending on stimulus, electrode placement, and individual characteristics.\n\nBetween 10 volts and about 30 volts, skin exhibits non-linear but symmetric electrical characteristics. Above 20 volts, electrical characteristics are both non-linear and symmetric. Skin conductance can increase by several orders of magnitude in milliseconds. This should not be confused with dielectric breakdown, which occurs at hundreds of volts. For these reasons, current flow cannot be accurately calculated by simply applying Ohm's law using a fixed resistance model.\n\n\nThe term \"electrocution,\" coined about the time of the first use of the electric chair in 1890, originally referred only to \"electr\"ical exe\"cution\" and not to accidental or suicidal electrical deaths. However, since no English word was available for non-judicial deaths due to electric shock, the word \"electrocution\" eventually took over as a description of all circumstances of electrical death judicial punishment or not.\n\nThe lethality of an electric shock is dependent on several variables:\n\n\nOther issues affecting lethality are frequency, which is an issue in causing cardiac arrest or muscular spasms. Very high frequency electric current causes tissue burning, but does not penetrate the body far enough to cause cardiac arrest (see electrosurgery). Also important is the pathway: if the current passes through the chest or head, there is an increased chance of death. From a main circuit or power distribution panel the damage is more likely to be internal, leading to cardiac arrest. Another factor is that cardiac tissue has a chronaxie (response time) of about 3 milliseconds, so electricity at frequencies of higher than about 333 Hz requires more current to cause fibrillation than is required at lower frequencies.\n\nThe comparison between the dangers of alternating current at typical power transmission frequences (i.e., 50 or 60 Hz), and direct current has been a subject of debate ever since the War of Currents in the 1880s. Animal experiments conducted during this time suggested that alternating current was about twice as dangerous as direct current per unit of current flow (or per unit of applied voltage).\n\nIt is sometimes suggested that human lethality is most common with alternating current at 100–250 volts; however, death has occurred below this range, with supplies as low as 42 volts. Assuming a steady current flow (as opposed to a shock from a capacitor or from static electricity), shocks above 2,700 volts are often fatal, with those above 11,000 volts being usually fatal, though exceptional cases have been noted. According to a Guinness Book of World Records comic, seventeen-year-old Brian Latasa survived a 230,000 volt shock on the tower of an ultra-high voltage line in Griffith Park, Los Angeles on November 9, 1967. A news report of the event stated that he was \"jolted through the air, and landed across the line\", and though rescued by firemen, he suffered burns over 40% of his body and was completely paralyzed except for his eyelids. The shock with the highest voltage reported survived was that of Harry F. McGrew, who came in contact with a 340,000 volt transmission line in Huntington Canyon, Utah. \n\nThere were 550 reported electrocutions in the US in 1993, 2.1 deaths per million inhabitants. At that time, the incidence of electrocutions was decreasing. Electrocutions in the workplace make up the majority of these fatalities. From 1980–1992, an average of 411 workers were killed each year by electrocution. A recent study conducted by the National Coroners Information System (NCIS) in Australia has revealed three-hundred and twenty-one (321) closed case fatalities (and at least 39 case fatalities still under coronial investigation) that had been reported to Australian coroners where a person died from electrocution between July 2000 and October 2011.\n\nIn Sweden, Denmark, Finland and Norway the number of electric deaths per million inhabitants was 0.6, 0.3, 0.3 and 0.2, respectively, in years 2007-2011.\n\nPeople who survive electrical trauma may suffer a host of injuries including loss of consciousness, seizures, aphasia, visual disturbances, headaches, tinnitus, paresis, and memory disturbances. Even without visible burns, electric shock survivors may be faced with long-term muscular pain and discomfort, fatigue, headache, problems with peripheral nerve conduction and sensation, inadequate balance and coordination, among other symptoms. Electrical injury can lead to problems with neurocognitive function, affecting speed of mental processing, attention, concentration, and memory. The high frequency of psychological problems is well established and may be multifactorial. As with any traumatic and life-threatening experience, electrical injury may result in post traumatic psychiatric disorders. There exist several non-profit research institutes that coordinate rehabilitation strategies for electrical injury survivors by connecting them with clinicians that specialize in diagnosis and treatment of various traumas that arise as a result of electrical injury.\n\nElectric shock is also used as a medical therapy, under carefully controlled conditions:\n\nMild electric shocks are also used for entertainment, especially as a practical joke for example in such devices as a shocking pen or a shocking gum. However devices such as a joy buzzer and most other machines in amusement parks today only use vibration that feels somewhat like an electric shock to someone not expecting it.\n\nElectroshock weapons are incapacitant weapons used for subduing a person by administering electric shock to disrupt superficial muscle functions. One type is a conductive energy device (CED), an electroshock gun popularly known by the brand name \"Taser\", which fires projectiles that administer the shock through a thin, flexible wire. Although they are illegal for personal use in many jurisdictions, Tasers have been marketed to the general public. Other electroshock weapons such as stun guns, stun batons (\"cattle prods\"), and electroshock belts administer an electric shock by direct contact.\n\nElectric fences are barriers that uses electric shocks to deter animals or people from crossing a boundary. The voltage of the shock may have effects ranging from uncomfortable, to painful or even lethal. Most electric fencing is used today for agricultural fencing and other forms of animal control purposes, though it is frequently used to enhance security of restricted areas, and there exist places where lethal voltages are used.\n\nElectric shocks are used as a method of torture, since the received voltage and current can be controlled with precision and used to cause pain and fear without always visibly harming the victim's body.\n\nSuch torture uses electrodes attached to parts of the victim's body: most typically, while wires are wound around the fingers, toes, or tongue; attached to the genitals; or inserted in the vagina to provide a return circuit; the voltage source (typically some sort of prod) of precisely controllable pressure is applied to other sensitive parts of the body, such as the genitals, breasts, or head. The parrilla is an example of this technique. Other methods of electrical torture (such as the picana) do not use a fixed wire but the prod has two electrodes of different polarity a short distance apart so as to make a circuit through the flesh between them when it is placed on the body, thus making it easy for the operator to target the shocks accurately in the places that cause the victim most pain and distress. When the voltage and current is controlled (most typically, high voltage and low current) the victim feels the pain of electric shock but is not physically harmed. Repeated shocks to the genitals will result in the victim losing control of his or her bladder and unintentionally urinating, while extensive passage of the current through the buttocks will cause the victim to unintentionally defecate.\n\nElectrical torture has been used in war and by repressive regimes since the 1930s: The U.S. Army is known to have used electrical torture during World War II and during the Algerian War electrical torture was a favorite method of French military forces; Amnesty International published an official statement that Russian military forces in Chechnya tortured local women with electric shocks by attaching wires onto their breasts; Japanese serial killer Futoshi Matsunaga used electric shocks to control his victims.\n\nAdvocates for the mentally ill and some psychiatrists such as Thomas Szasz have asserted that electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is torture when used without a \"bona fide\" medical benefit against recalcitrant or non-responsive patients. A similar argument and opposition apply to the use of painful shocks as punishment for behavior modification, a practice that is openly used only at the Judge Rotenberg Institute.\n\nElectric shock delivered by an electric chair is sometimes used as an official means of capital punishment in the United States, although its use has become rare in recent times. Although some original proponents of the electric chair considered it to be a more humane execution method than hanging, shooting, poison gassing, etc., it has now generally been replaced by lethal injections in states that practice capital punishment. Modern reporting has claimed that it sometimes takes several shocks to be lethal, and that the condemned person may actually catch fire before the process is complete.\n\nOther than in parts of the United States, only the Philippines reportedly has used this method, from 1926 to 1976. It was intermittently replaced by the firing squad, until the death penalty was abolished in that country. Electrocution remains legal in at least 5 states (Virginia, Florida, Alabama, North Carolina and Kentucky) of the United States.\n\nUse of insulated gloves , insulated boots, mats and tools.\nProtecting electrical circuit with RCD (Residual-current device).\n\n\n"}
{"id": "559251", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=559251", "title": "Featherbedding", "text": "Featherbedding\n\nFeatherbedding is the practice of hiring more workers than are needed to perform a given job, or to adopt work procedures which appear pointless, complex and time-consuming merely to employ additional workers. The term \"make-work\" is sometimes used as a synonym for featherbedding.\n\nThe term \"featherbedding\" is usually used by management to describe behaviors and rules sought by workers. The term may equally apply to mid- and upper-level management, particularly in regard to top-heavy and \"bloated\" levels of middle- and upper-level management. Featherbedding has also been occasionally used to describe rent-seeking behavior by corporations in response to economic regulation.\n\nThe term \"featherbedding\" originally referred to any person who is pampered, coddled, or excessively rewarded. The term originated in the use of feathers to fill mattresses in beds, providing for more comfort. The modern use of the term in the labor relations setting began in the United States railroad industry, which used feathered mattresses in sleeping cars. Railway labor unions, confronted with changing technology which led to widespread unemployment, sought to preserve jobs by negotiating contracts which required employers to compensate workers to do little or no work or which required complex and time-consuming work rules so as to generate a full day's work for an employee who otherwise would not remain employed.\n\nIn a 1965 bulletin the United States Department of Labor referred to \"featherbedding\" as:\nSince the mid-19th century, \"featherbedding\" has been most commonly used in the labor relations field. Increasingly, the term has come to refer only to work rules or collective bargaining agreements demanded by labor unions.\n\nIn nations where trade union activities are legally defined, legal definitions of featherbedding exist. These definitions are few in number, and tend to be narrowly drawn. For example, the Taft-Hartley Act in the United States defines featherbedding in Section 8(b)(6) as any agreement or union demand for payment of wages for services which are not performed or not to be performed. However, in 1953, the Supreme Court of the United States ruled that the Act's definition only applies to payments for workers not to work. Therefore, work rules requiring minimum crew sizes, the assignment of duties to craft workers, and other \"make-work\" agreements do not constitute featherbedding.\n\nFeatherbedding is commonly seen by economists as a solution to \"who should bear the burden of technological change?\"\n\nLabor economists often argue that featherbedding is the most economically optimal position from both an employer's and employee's perspective. Featherbedding only emerges under certain circumstances. Chief among these is that the employer has an exploitable surplus (e.g., profit) to support the practice. Featherbedding also arises where market forces fail and organizations are permitted to be noncompetitive. Under this analysis, corporations (for example) are already inefficient and featherbedding does not make them more or less so. Featherbedding can, in some circumstances, take excess resources (profits) away from the employer and give them to workers in the form of more income per worker or higher numbers of employees at the same income level. Featherbedding is considered economically efficient because it occurs in the give-and-take of collective bargaining. If employers were relatively strong vis-a-vis unions, unions would be unable to impose featherbedding on them. As the politico-socio-economic strength of each party changes over time, collective bargaining outcomes will as well, enlarging or reducing the number and impact of featherbedding rules on the employer.\n\nMore recent political analyses of featherbedding have concluded that featherbedding is not necessarily economically optimal, but is better than other forms of bargaining. Under this analysis, the best form of collective bargaining would be one in which the union and employer bargain not only over wages but the level of employment. Most unions in the United States, for example, bargain solely over wages. Bargaining over work rules (featherbedding) as well as wages achieves outcomes close to those reached by bargaining solely over wages, but is better than bargaining over wages alone.\n\nLegal scholars and certain social theorists argue that featherbedding may be an expression of the concept of a job as a property right. These analysts argue that while the owner or employer has the \"right\" to extract profit because of his or her investment of capital, so the worker has the \"right\" to extract profit because of his or her investment of labor. Featherbedding, it is argued, arises and becomes a significant problem in places where the job property right is not part of the legal regime and remains unprotected (such as the United States).\n\nSeizing on economists' emphasis on power in the workplace, other social theorists conclude that featherbedding is a result of weak labor unions and unenforced and unprotected worker rights. Under this analysis, featherbedding is a response by unions to their weakness, not strength.\n\nImproved workplace employment rights, improved economic policies and less antagonistic labor-management relations, it is argued, would reduce featherbedding.\n\nOthers see certain kinds of featherbedding as a corrective for market failures. For example, the delivery of social services is often not quantifiable except in the extreme. When the market is unable to quantify a good or service, the market will fail to accurately price it. Market failure results. In complex organizations, or in those whose inputs and outputs are difficult to quantify, it becomes increasingly difficult to determine what constitutes featherbedding. For example, defining \"quality health care\" is problematic, as is defining a \"quality education\". In such situations, frontline professional workers place heavy emphasis on work rules and minimums. Many white-collar professionals (in particular those such as nurses and teachers) and highly skilled craft workers place heavy emphasis on staffing minimums, for example, as a means of ensuring a \"high quality\" outcome. While some argue that this is an exercise in the professional judgment of such workers, others call this featherbedding and point to the low level of evidence that such rules improve outcomes.\n\nIn Brazil, featherbedding is considered endemic in government-owned and private-sector industries. Some analysts argue that featherbedding is a reaction to economic insecurity, and helps stabilize the national economy by spreading wealth.\n\nIn France, featherbedding was encouraged by the nationalized rail transportation system after World War Two with a view to keeping down the unemployment rate. This was in addition to railway express rates being kept very low. The railroad ran at a huge deficit as a result.\n\nIn post-war Japan, featherbedding is uncommon. A post-war consensus emerged among labor unions that featherbedding was not in the best interest of workers, and unions in Japan have tended to avoid the practice. A heavy government emphasis on full employment and a strong social safety net helped reinforce this consensus.\n\nThere are no national, regional, or local statutes or regulations governing labor unions in Sweden. Sweden has no national bureau or agency overseeing or regulating labor relations, and no agency monitors or regulates internal trade union matters. Nevertheless, despite relatively close relationships between employers and unions, featherbedding is almost unknown in Sweden.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, featherbedding is also referred to as \"overmanning\".\n\nIn the U.S., the Taft-Hartley Act defines and outlaws featherbedding. However, as previously noted, the U.S. Supreme Court has narrowly defined featherbedding, leaving most practices undisturbed.\n"}
{"id": "26911117", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26911117", "title": "Festival de Beaune", "text": "Festival de Beaune\n\nThe Festival de Beaune: \"Festival international d’opéra baroque\" is a month-long annual summer festival of baroque opera in Beaune, France. It is notable for revivals of many baroque operas and performances of Mozart on original instruments.\n\nMore recently the town has also become host, in a different week, to the \"Festival international du film policier de Beaune\" - a festival of detective films.\n\nFounded in 1982, the Baroque Music Festival of Beaune has presented over 80 operas, over 30 of them significant revivals and world, European or French premières; over 100 oratorio and sacred music concerts, including 5 revivals or premières. In addition to recitals by individual performers. The festival also runs classes and voice workshops, the \"Académie de Chant baroque\".\n\nThe concerts take place in the Hospices de Beaune, 15th century, and in the Collégiale Notre-Dame de Beaune, 12th century, over four weekends in July.\n\nThe following includes only major revivals and premières:\n\nGeorge Frideric Handel: \"Flavio\". dir. René Jacobs\nGeorge Frideric Handel: \"Scipione\". dir. Christophe Rousset\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4966126", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4966126", "title": "Formula LGB", "text": "Formula LGB\n\nFormula LGB is a series of single seater, open wheel class race cars manufactured by Super Speeds (A division of L.G.Balakrishnan Brothers, the manufacturers of Rolon Chains and Sprockets) for LG Sports in Coimbatore, India. These cars are similar to the wingless Formula Fords intended as a low cost starter series with power in the range of 90 to 100 bhp (70 to 75 kW).\n\nThe cars were launched in India in 2003 and up till 2005 only one model was manufactured hence simply known as Formula LGB.In 2006 when another Hyundai engined model was launched the existing Formula LGB became Formula LGB Swift to avoid confusion of model name.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49594898", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49594898", "title": "Galva Opera House", "text": "Galva Opera House\n\nThe Galva Opera House is a historic theater located at 334-348 Front Street in Galva, Illinois. Built in 1878, the theater opened as the \"Blue Ribbon Temperance Hall\"; by 1886, it had lost its association with the temperance movement and was known by its present name. Galva's location on two major railroad lines allowed traveling theatrical troupes to visit the theater; shows produced by local talent performed in the building as well. Local schools also used the building for their graduation ceremonies, sporting events, and school plays until Galva High School opened its own auditorium in 1932. The building was used as a roller skating rink in the 1920s and 1930s and hosted Lions Club events in the 1950s.\n\nThe building was added to the National Register of Historic Places on February 11, 1982.\n"}
{"id": "26195794", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26195794", "title": "German ship Doggerbank", "text": "German ship Doggerbank\n\nThe German ship \"Doggerbank\" (Schiff 53) was an auxiliary minelayer and blockade runner of Nazi Germany in World War II.\n\nLaid down as the UK merchant vessel Speybank in 1926, the vessel was captured in 1941 by the , converted to an auxiliary minelayer for the \"Kriegsmarine\" and renamed \"Doggerbank\". After laying mines off the coast of South Africa, it travelled to Japan. On the return trip, it was accidentally sunk by the , with all but one of the 365 men on board (108 crew plus 257 prisoners-of-war) lost at sea.\n\n\"Speybank\" was built in 1926 at Harland & Wolff at Govan, Glasgow for Andrew Weir & Co. The ship was captured on 31 January 1941 by German auxiliary cruiser \"Atlantis\" in the Indian Ocean. \"Speybank\" was sent back to France under the command of Paul Schneidewind and reached Bordeaux on 10 May 1941.\n\nThe ship was taken over by the German \"Kriegsmarine\" in 1941, renamed \"Doggerbank\" – \"Schiff 53\" (German: \"Ship 53\"), and converted to an auxiliary minelayer. It remained under the command of \"Kapitänleutnant\" Paul Schneidewind.\n\n\"Doggerbank\" left France in January 1942 to lay mines of the coast of South Africa and then to proceed to Japan. The mines were laid successfully in March/April 1942 and \"Doggerbank\" arrived in Japan later that year.\n\nIn Japan, \"Doggerbank\" took aboard many of the survivors of the auxiliary cruiser and the German tanker \"Uckermark\", the former \"Altmark\", which had been destroyed in an accident in Yokohama on 30 November 1942. In total, the ship carried 365 men on board when leaving the Far East. It also carried a cargo of 7,000 tons of raw materials and rubber, fats and fish oil.\n\nThe ship travelled \"via\" Kobe, Saigon, Singapore and Jakarta, which it left on 10 January 1943, heading to France. In the mid-Atlantic on 3 March 1943, at 9.53 pm, it was torpedoed by . \"U-43\" mistook it for a British ship \"of the type\" as \"Doggerbank\" was traveling ahead of its schedule. The ship was hit by all three torpedoes fired at it and sank within two minutes, with perhaps two hundred men killed instantly.\n\n\"U-43\" observed five life boats being launched by the ship and attempted to make contact with the survivors, but failed to get close enough because of the darkness. Unaware of the ship's sinking as it had been unable to send a distress signal, the German admiralty took days to realise the ship had been lost.\n\nThe eventual sole survivor of the crew of 108 and the 257 prisoners-of-war on board, Fritz Kürt, was in \"Doggerbank\"'s jolly boat, together with the ship's captain, Schneidewind, a small number of other men and the ship's dog. The boat headed for the South American coast, approximately three weeks away. Through suicide and accidents, the small crew was eventually reduced to two, Kürt and an old sailor by the name of Boywitt, the captain having shot himself and the ship's dog having drowned. Desperate for water and food, Boywitt drank sea water on the 19th day of their journey and died, while Kürt was too weak to even roll the dead body overboard. Kürt was eventually picked up by the Spanish motor tanker \"Campoamor\" on 29 March and taken to Aruba.\n\nThe German submarine \"U-43\" was sunk on 30 July 1943 without survivors.\n\nKürt was exchanged in a prisoner-of-war swap in 1944, reported back to the German admiralty and then hid in Hamburg until the end of the war, having been about to be arrested.\n\n"}
{"id": "13909439", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13909439", "title": "Grand Opera House (Wilmington, Delaware)", "text": "Grand Opera House (Wilmington, Delaware)\n\nThe Grand Opera House, also known as The Grand or Masonic Hall and Grand Theater, is a 1,208-seat theater for the performing arts in Wilmington, Delaware, United States. The four-story building was built in 1871 by the Delaware Grand Lodge of Masons to serve as a Masonic Temple and auditorium. The construction cost was $100,000. It was designed in Second Empire style by Baltimore architect Thomas Dixon and incorporates symbolism from Freemasonry into the cast-iron facade. Its central pediment contains an Eye of Providence.\n\nHistorically, the Grand hosted a variety of operas, symphonies, Victorian melodramas, minstrel shows, burlesque, vaudeville, and other exhibitions, including performers such as Ethel Barrymore, \"Buffalo Bill\" Cody and John Philip Sousa. For most of the twentieth century the Grand was operated exclusively as a movie theater, run by Warner Brothers from 1930 and eventually closing in 1967. It was reopened four years later and returned to programming emphasizing classical music, partnering with the Delaware Symphony Orchestra, OperaDelaware, and the First State Ballet Theatre.\n\nIt was listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 1972 with assertions of both architectural and historical significance. It was argued it is \"one of the finest remaining examples of 19th century cast iron architecture in America\" and that it has important association with events and persons in Delaware's history.\n\nIn 1973, management was turned over to a non-profit organization and the building underwent extensive restoration, which was completed in 1976.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "55825265", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55825265", "title": "Independence Day of Cambodia", "text": "Independence Day of Cambodia\n\nIndependence Day () is a national holiday observed annually in Cambodia every 9 November. The date celebrates Cambodia's Declaration of Independence from France on 9 November 1953. The site to celebrate the ceremony is at Independence Monument. The vital celebrations are held in the capital city, Phnom Penh although there are some celebrations in many provinces.\n\nFrance started controlling Cambodia in 1863. After being colonized around 80 years, King Norodom Sihanouk began claiming dependence from France in 1949. In 1953, he was successful to gain full independence, and France agreed to decolonize the whole country. Due to this accomplishment, Cambodian citizens viewed him as \"the father of independence (ព្រះមហាវីរបុរសជាតិ – ព្រះបិតាឯករាជ្យជាតិ)\", which depicts that he was the hero of the country. He made the country to develop rapidly.\n\nEvery year, Independence Day is a very special and happy day for the whole nation. It portrayed the Khmer success over colonization. It is celebrated in many places around the country, and the absolutely crucial one takes place at Independence Monument (វិមានឯករាជ្យ) in Phnom Penh.\n\nOn that day, all the leaders and representatives of state organizations and public departments must participate and celebrate the formal ceremony in the morning. Usually the roads around the Independence Monument are closed to provide the space for the ceremony. The whole ceremony is broadcast on national television and radio. Other channels also broadcast it from the National TV. Therefore, the people around the country can watch it.\n\nEvery state palace is decorated with some slogans related to the independence of Cambodia, and the lights. At night, there is firework in the Chatomuk River (ទន្លេចតុមុខ) located in front of the Royal Palace. Because it is the holiday, there are a lot of people going out to see that event in front of the Royal Palace and Chroy Changvar area, which is opposite to the Royal Palace.\n"}
{"id": "24414097", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24414097", "title": "Jakarta Fashion Week", "text": "Jakarta Fashion Week\n\nJakarta Fashion Week or (\"'JFW\") is a fashion event held annually in Jakarta, Indonesia. Since its first edition in 2008, JFW was being held at the Pacific Place shopping mall, but later the main event is shifted to Senayan City. JFW organized as a collaboration between the Municipal Government of Jakarta, major stakeholders of the fashion industry and Feminagroup. \n\nThe event aims to provide directions to the Indonesian fashion industry as well as a vehicle to demonstrate its wealth in talents and creativity., and ultimately transform Jakarta as a major fashion hub in the region and the world. As the world's most populous Muslim majority country, Indonesia has high demand for clothing that adheres to religious rules emphasizing modesty for women. One of the main goal of JFW to transform the country's fashion industry as the global leader in the Muslim fashion that is worth nearly $100 billion. All the shows are invites-only, targeted to celebrities, socialites, buyers, local and foreign media and all who love fashion.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47748206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47748206", "title": "Kaga Rebellion", "text": "Kaga Rebellion\n\nThe Kaga Rebellion or Chōkyō Uprising was a large-scale revolt in Kaga Province (present-day southern Ishikawa Prefecture), Japan, in late 1487 through 1488. Togashi Masachika, who ruled Kaga Province as \"shugo\", had been restored to power in 1473 with aid from the Asakura clan as well as the Ikkō-ikki, a loose collection of lesser nobility, monks, and farmers. By 1474, however, the Ikkō-ikki grew discontent with Masachika, and launched some initial revolts, which were easily quelled. In 1487, when Masachika left on a military campaign, between one hundred thousand and two hundred thousand Ikkō-ikki revolted. Masachika returned with his army, but the Ikkō-ikki, backed by several disaffected vassal families, overwhelmed his army and surrounded him in his palace, where he committed \"seppuku\". The former vassals of Masachika granted the position of \"shugo\" to Masachika's uncle Yasutaka, but over the next several decades, the Ikkō-ikki increased their political hold on the province, which they would effectively control for almost a century.\n\nDuring the 15th century in Japan, peasant revolts, known as \"ikki\", became much more commonplace. During the turmoil of the Ōnin War (1467–1477) and subsequent years, these rebellions increased in both frequency and success. Many of these rebels became known as Ikkō-ikki, a collection of peasant farmers, Buddhist monks, Shinto priests, and jizamurai (lesser nobles) who all espoused belief in the Jōdo Shinshū sect of Buddhism. Rennyo, the Hongan-ji abbot who led the Jōdo Shinshū movement, attracted a large following in Kaga and Echizen Province, but distanced himself from the political goals of the \"ikki\", advocating violence only for self-defense or defense of one's religion.\n\nDuring the mid-15th century, a civil war broke out among the Togashi clan over the position of \"shugo\". Togashi Masachika had been driven out of Kaga by his younger brother, Kochiyo. When the Ōnin War broke out in 1467, Masachika sided with Hosokawa and Kochiyo with Yamana. In 1473, Masachika requested aid from Asakura Toshikaga, the lord of Echizen and ally of Hosokawa, as well as from the priests of Yoshizaki, who were associated with Rennyo. Masachika promised the \"ikki\" that if restored to power, he would lift his supporters out of their poverty. Further motivating the \"ikki\" to support Masachika were the religious policies of Kochiyo: Kochiyo patronized the Takada school of Jōdo Shinshū, a fierce rival to the Hongan-ji for control of the Shinshū sect, and persecuted followers of the Hongan-ji. Toshikaga pledged his support, as did the Yoshizaki priests, the latter prior to any approval from Rennyo. Rennyo eventually granted his approval to the actions of the Yoshizaki priests, and with Toshikaga providing military aid and the Ikkō-ikki rioting throughout Kaga, Masachika quickly overthrew his brother. But Ikkō-ikki support of Masachika was short-lived. By 1474, the Ikkō-ikki were in dispute with Masachika as they claimed that he did not fulfill his promises of economic reward, and they attempted a rebellion. Rennyo refused to support their actions and the rebels were quickly defeated and forced to take refuge in Etchū Province. In 1475, Shimotsuma Rensu, a disciple of Rennyo, falsely claimed that Rennyo supported a renewed uprising in Kaga. The revolt failed, and Rennyo excommunicated Rensu.\n\nTiring of his efforts to restrain the unruly Ikkō-ikki, Rennyo left Yoshizaki for the capital region.\n\nDespite the previous revolts having been easily suppressed, unrest continued to simmer in Kaga under Masachika's governance. The Ikkō-ikki who remained in Kaga grew bolder, refusing to pay taxes and even seizing tax revenue and land, despite Rennyo's continued protestations. In 1487, Masachika left with a large army for Ōmi Province in response to a call for aid from \"shōgun\" Ashikaga Yoshihisa, who was attempting to suppress the robber baron Rokkaku Tokoyori. In Masachika's absence, the Ikkō-ikki, led by Rengo, Renkō, and Rensei, three sons of Rennyo, launched their revolt and between one hundred thousand and two hundred thousand members took up arms. Masachika quickly returned from his military expedition, and defeated the rebels in several battles. However, several vassal families, discontent with Masachika, joined with the rebels. The rebels cut off Masachika from reinforcements from his allies in the bordering Echizen, Etchū, and Noto Provinces, and besieged his castle. Masachika, trapped in a burning castle and faced with certain defeat, committed \"seppuku.\" In his place, the vassal families who rebelled against Masachika put forward his uncle and ex-\"shugo\", Yasutaka, as a candidate to be the new \"shugo\".\n\nFollowing the overthrow of Masachika, Kaga became known as \"hyakusho no motaru kuni\" (\"the kingdom of peasants\", or \"province ruled by peasants\"). \"Shōgun\" Yoshihisa, a friend and ally of Masachika, demanded that Rennyo excommunicate the Kaga \"ikki\". However, Hosokawa Masamoto, an influential political figure who was also a close friend and patron of Rennyo, negotiated a deal which permitted Rennyo to merely reprimand the \"ikki\" while Masamoto would join the Hongan-ji. In Kaga, Togashi Yasutaka took power as \"shugo\", ruling the province until his death in 1504. Afterward, under the rule of his son, Taneyasu, the \"ikki\" began to assert their influence over the vassal families that supported them in the uprising. The \"ikki\" soon split into rival political factions and initiated a series of political struggles which culminated in a civil war in 1531. The heads of the three predominant Hongan-ji temples in Kaga, as well as Taneyasu, were defeated when Renjun, a son of Rennyo, brought in Ikkō-ikki troops from Mikawa Province. Upon Renjun's victory, the office of \"shugo\" was abolished and the leaders of the opposition were exiled. The Ikkō-ikki would control Kaga until 1580, when forces loyal to Oda Nobunaga defeated them.\n\n"}
{"id": "4121575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4121575", "title": "Langerado", "text": "Langerado\n\nLangerado Music Festival was an annual music festival, taking place in early spring in South Florida, first organized in 2003 by Ethan Schwartz In 2008 the festival was held at the Seminole Big Cypress Indian Reservation in the Everglades. The festival featured primarily music of the jamband genre, but also offered a wide selection of other musical styles and traditionally offered a stage for local bands, as well.\n\nIn 2009 the festival was to be moved to Miami, but on February 3, 2009, it was announced that Langerado 2009 would be canceled due to sluggish ticket sales.\n\nOn March 8, 2011 it was announced to members of the festival's mailing list that Langerado 2011 was to be relaunched by C3 Presents and Boros Entertainment and would take place at South Florida's Markham Park on October 8 and 9, 2011.\n\nOn June 1, 2011 tickets went on sale for the 2011 festival.\nThe 2011 festival was cancelled again on September 3, 2011 by Boros Entertainment and C3 Presents due to low ticket sales.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10691770", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10691770", "title": "List of floods", "text": "List of floods\n\nThis is a list of major floods.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "12646543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12646543", "title": "Long-term complications of standing", "text": "Long-term complications of standing\n\nThe long-term complications of standing are the conditions that may arise after prolonged time in a standing or upright position including standing, walking or running. Many of the complications come from prolonged standing (more the 60% of a work day) that is repeated several times a week. There are many different jobs that require prolonged standing. These included: \"retail staff, Baristas, bartenders, assembly line workers, security staff, engineers, catering staff, library assistants, hair stylists and laboratory technicians.\"\n\nCornell university has calculated that \"Standing requires ~20% more energy than sitting\".\n\nThere are no exact measures of how prevalent the complications are. However, European studies report that between one third and one half of all workers spend at least four hours per Working time (for an average workday of eight hours) standing or walking. One estimate from the United Kingdom stated that over 11 million people stand for long periods of time without rest.\n\nProper posture is often referred to as a \"neutral spine\"; slouching is an improper posture or a \"nonneutral spine\"\n\nSlouching is often times described as improper posture, movement or rigidity of the spine, especially the cervical and thoracic regions, in relation to other parts of the body.\n\nVaricose veins are veins that have become enlarged and twisted, especially within the legs, ankles and feet of an affected individual.\n\nWhen standing, gravity pulls the blood downwards to the lower part of the body. Body mechanisms, such as vasoconstriction and valves of the veins, assist in pumping blood upwards. As blood is pumped through the body, the valves within the veins prevent the blood from flowing backwards. After extensive, prolonged standing, these valves can become weak and eventually fail. When this happens, blood is no longer being prevented from flowing backward. Gravity will pull the blood back into an individuals legs, ankles and feet. This forces the veins to expand or \"balloon\" to accommodate this extra blood.\n\nThe valves of the veins work best in concert with accompanying muscle contractions that force the blood to continue moving up the leg. Standing with some muscles constantly strained weakens these muscles and therefore the strength of the contractions. Varicose veins have also been associated with chronic heart and circulatory disorders and hypertension as well as complications related to pregnancy.\n\nProlonged standing increases the risk for hospitalization from varicose veins. Among the working age population one out of five hospitalizations from varicose veins are as a result of prolonged standing. Prolonged standing leads to impeded blood flow and stasis in the veins in the lower limbs, which can cause varicose veins.\n\nStanding for prolonged periods can lead to certain cardiovascular disorders. In a study by Krause et al. (2000) the authors examined the relationship between standing at work and the progression of carotid atherosclerosis in men. Standing for long periods can change the distribution of blood in the extremities. This in turn causes the blood to pool and reduces the circulating blood plasma volume leading to hemodynamic changes that impact the body. The authors reported that long periods of standing at work were significantly associated with atherosclerotic progression. This study provides evidence that hemodynamic changes from standing can influence the progressions of carotid atherosclerosis. The authors also found that men with carotid stenosis or ischemic heart disease were at greater risk for the progression of atherosclerosis . Atherosclerosis can lead to coronary artery disease, carotid artery disease, peripheral artery disease, and aneurysms.\n\nStanding places significant pressure on the joint of the hips, knees, ankle and feet but without any significant movement of it. This reduces the normal lubrication and cushioning of synovial joints, causing them to tear. The combined effect of pressure and tearing can cause extensive amounts of pain and make it difficult to move or walk.\n\nMuscles kept in a constant stress position quickly become exhausted and can result in pain and swelling in the lower back, legs, ankles and feet.\n\nThe Occupational Safety and Health Administration (OSHA) has stated that muscle fatigue and musculoskeletal disorders account for \"33% of all worker injury and illness\". Considerable research has been conducted as to the extent of muscle injuries and all have concluded that these are expected but can be reduced with breaks and the availability of chairs.\n\nResearch has shown that the body experiences muscle fatigue after standing for five hours; this fatigue persists for more than 30 minutes after the end of the work day according to electronic measurements of fatigue. The perception of fatigue is subjective and does not necessarily correlate with the experimental indicators of fatigue.\n\nWalking or standing more than six hours per day has been linked with pre-term births, low birth weights as well as high blood pressure for the mother.\n\nResearchers have found that working more than 25 hours a week has been \"associated with slower rates of fetal growth\". They also found that, on average, there are no \"negative effects of working up to 36 weeks into pregnancy\".\n\nA systematic review from Karakolis and Callaghan found that sit-stand workstations did not reduce worker productivity. Three of the reviewed studies found increased productivity when workers used sit stand stations, four reported no impact on the productivity of workers, and one reported mixed results.\n\nThere is no real prevention for standing, but there are ways to mitigate time spent standing in the workplace. Experts suggest to move around and change positions throughout the day. It is best not to sit in one position for more than 20 minutes, or to stand in one position for more than 8 minutes.\n\nIf prolonged sitting in the workplace is required or desired, individuals should gradually transition to significant periods of standing. When transitioning from sitting to standing, individuals might experience musculoskeletal discomfort or fatigue while the body adapts.\n\nCompanies should design workstations that are conducive to good health. Workstations should allow workers to choose between several working positions and to move easily between them. Additionally, workers should be able to adjust the height of their workstations to fit their body size. Other helpful aspects of workstations are footrests, elbow rests, and seats so workers can sit when they need to.\n\nThe choice of footwear can change the impact of prolonged standing. Shoes should support the foot, have shock-absorbing cushions, fit the foot well, and be comfortable. Shoes should not be flat, have heels higher than 5 cm, or change the shape of the foot. There are also special insoles for shoes that can be used when soft mats or chairs are not available. Additionally the floors in a work area should not be metal or concrete. It is best to have cork or rubber covered floors. Floors should not be slippery.\n\nTraining and education are important components of avoiding complications from standing. Employees trained in ergonomics experience less muscle discomfort and more productivity while using sit-stand work stations than workers not trained.\n\nProper floor mats can also be used to reduce stress on feet and knees. Anti-fatigue matting is recommended and launderable matting is preferred. A study investigating the effects of 4 different standing conditions on assembly workers showed that using mats and shoes with in-soles was perceived as more comfortable for the workers than without while standing on hard floors.\n\n"}
{"id": "5635910", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5635910", "title": "Marc Garlasco", "text": "Marc Garlasco\n\nMarc Garlasco (born September 4, 1970) is an American former Pentagon senior intelligence analyst, now senior civilian protection officer for the United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA) and senior military advisor for the Human Rights Council (HRC). Having served for seven years at the Pentagon, becoming chief of high-value targeting, Garlasco left in 2003 and joined Human Rights Watch (HRW) as a senior military expert, specializing in battle damage assessment, military operations, and interrogations for the Emergencies Division, where he investigated human rights issues in a number of different conflicts zones. The author of a World War II German anti-aircraft medals reference book, Garlasco was suspended by HRW with pay, \"pending an investigation\", on September 14, 2009 after it was alleged that he had collected Nazi memorabilia. Garlasco downplayed the controversy, indicating he collected German and US World War II memorabilia because of family history and his interest in military history. He resigned from HRW in February 2010. He served as senior civilian protection officer for UNAMA in 2011, heading the UN's Protection of Civilians office. In early 2012, as the U.N. senior military advisor for the HRC's Independent Commission of Inquiry on Libya, he investigated civilian casualties while leading a survey of NATO's activities in Libya.\n\nGarlasco has a B.A. in Government from St. John's University 1988 — 1992 and an M.A. in International Relations from the Elliott School of International Affairs at the George Washington University(1992–1995) He lives in Pleasantville, New York. Garlasco was the senior military analyst in Human Rights Watch's (HRW) Emergencies Division. He specialized in battle damage assessment, military operations, and interrogations.\n\nHe worked with a defense contractor before being hired as an intelligence professional at the Defense Intelligence Agency working in the Pentagon; he survived the 9/11 attack on the building. He claims he was Chief of High-value targeting in The Pentagon during the Second Gulf War where he claimed to lead the effort to track and target Saddam Hussein. The initial targets and attack, known as the \"DECAP strike\", was identified by the CIA and the actual attacks were planned by TLAM and F-117 (see:). Garlasco was a member of the Operation Desert Fox (Iraq) Battle Damage Assessment team in 1998, led a Pentagon Battle Damage Assessment team to Kosovo in 1999 and recommended several thousand aimpoints on targets during military operations in Iraq and Serbia. Later that year Garlasco debriefed Iraqi nationals to gather intelligence about Saddam Hussein. He described it as \"contingency planning for a war that was probably never going to be fought.\" He also participated in over 50 interrogations as a subject matter expert. In total, Garlasco served for seven years in the Pentagon.\n\nIn 2003, Garlasco was responsible for dropping two, laser-guided, 500-kilogram bombs on a house in the Tuwaisi, neighborhood of Basra, Iraq, that he believed to contain Saddam Hussein's cousin Ali Hassan al-Majid, also known as Chemical Ali, the man responsible for launching poison gas attacks on Kurds in Iraq beginning in 1988. Watching the attack via satellite form a room in the Pentagon, Garlasco threw his arms in the air and shouted: \"I just blew up Chemical Ali!\" However, Chemical Ali was not in the house; 17 other people were killed instead. Garlasco left his Pentagon job in 2003 two weeks after the failed attack to take a position as senior military analyst at Human Rights Watch.\n\nGarlasco explained the calculus of civilian deaths in high-value targeting to the television news program 60 Minutes this way, \"Our number was 30. So, for example, Saddam Hussein. If you're gonna kill up to 29 people in a strike against Saddam Hussein, that's not a problem. But once you hit that number 30, we actually had to go to either President Bush, or Secretary of Defense Rumsfeld.\" Garlasco told the interviewer that prior to the invasion of Iraq, he personally recommended 50 high-value targets for air strikes, but, according to Garlasco, none of the targets on his list was actually killed. Rather, \"a couple of hundred civilians at least\" were killed in strikes he recommended. Garlasco defended the efforts made by the American military to minimize civilian casualties, \"I don't think people really appreciate the gymnastics that the U.S. military goes through in order to make sure that they're not killing civilians\". He responded to the question \"If so much care is being taken why are so many civilians getting killed?\" by stating \"Because the Taliban are violating international law, and because the U.S. just doesn't have enough troops on the ground. You have the Taliban shielding in people's homes. And you have this small number of troops on the ground. And sometimes the only thing they can do is drop bombs.\"\n\nAfter leaving the Pentagon, Garlasco joined Human Rights Watch as a senior military analyst; his task was to document laws-of-war violations and other atrocities committed during significant conflicts around the world. In an interview he gave for the Washington Post Garlasco described the transition from targeter to human rights advocate; \"I had been a part of it, so it was a lot harder than I thought it would be. It really dawned on me that these aren't just nameless, faceless targets. This is a place where people are going to feel ramifications for a long time.\"\n\nIn December 2003, Garlasco co-authored the report 'Off Target - The Conduct of the War and Civilian Casualties in Iraq' after carrying out field work with two other HRW staff to investigate the effect of the air war, ground war, and the immediate post-combat environment on civilians after the fall of Baghdad to U.S. led Coalition forces in the Iraq War. Garlasco and colleagues focused on the main fighting areas in the Tigris and Euphrates river valleys where civilian deaths had been reported, visiting ten cities in total. The report focused on the identification and investigation of potential violations of international humanitarian law by both Coalition and Iraqi forces together with the identification of patterns of conflict which may have resulted in avoidable civilian casualties.\n\nIn October 2004, Garlasco co-authored the report 'Razing Rafah: Mass Home Demolitions in the Gaza Strip' after carrying out research with two other HRW staff in the Gaza Strip, Israel, and Egypt. The report documented what it described as a \"pattern of illegal demolitions\" by the IDF in Rafah, a refugee camp and city at the southern end of the Gaza Strip on the border with Egypt where sixteen thousand people lost their homes after the Israeli government approved a plan to expand the de facto \"buffer zone\" in May 2004. Garlasco and colleagues examined the background to and effects of the demolitions, the security situation in Rafah, the IDF's main stated rationales for the demolitions, responding to and preventing attacks on its forces and the suppression of weapons smuggling through tunnels from Egypt, and concluded that in most cases the demolitions were \"carried out in the absence of military necessity\" in violation of international law.\n\nGarlasco has made it a personal objective to prevent the use of cluster munitions. He co-authored the 2006 Human Rights Watch report condemning Israel's use of such weapons in Lebanon and a report in 2008 documenting how civilians living in South Ossetia suffered the use of cluster munitions by both the Russian and Georgian armies. Colin Kahl, a professor of security studies at Georgetown University, said that Garlasco \"knows more about airstrikes than anyone in the world who isn't in the military currently\", adding that \"when Marc says stuff is messed up, the military has to take it seriously. It's not some wing nut in a human rights group out to get the military\".\n\nAccording to Haaretz, Garlasco worked in the Pentagon for seven years and \"was known over the last years of his career for his harsh condemnation of Israel\".\n\nJohn H. Richardson, a writer at \"Esquire\", writes that Garlasco's work on torture scandals in Iraq resulted in testimony from American soldiers that led directly to John McCain's anti-torture amendment. Richardson also writes that Garlasco was one of the first foreigners to cross the border into Georgia during its war with Russia, and that during the Gaza War Garlasco lived in an apartment in the middle of the war zone and spent weeks visiting hospitals and bomb sites.\n\nGarlasco has attracted some criticism for his reporting, with the \"Ottawa Citizen\", for example, suggesting in an editorial that he \"has made a career of painting Israel as a criminal state\".\n\nGarlasco appeared as an expert in the documentary film \"No End in Sight\", which examined in detail some of the key decisions made by the US military and the Pentagon in the early days after the invasion of Iraq. He was also featured in a \"60 Minutes\" story on US military targeting practices that aired October 28, 2007.\n\nEmma Daly confirmed in March 2010 that Garlasco resigned from Human Rights Watch in February 2010, and offered no elaboration.\n\nBeginning in 2011, Garlasco served as senior civilian protection officer for United Nations Assistance Mission in Afghanistan (UNAMA). Heading the UN's Protection of Civilians office, Garlasco monitored civilian casualty rates, and admonished Taliban leader Mullah Mohammad Omar to refrain from using mines. In early 2012, as the U.N. senior military advisor for the Human Rights Council's (HRC) Independent Commission of Inquiry on Libya, he investigated civilian casualties while leading a survey of NATO's activities in Libya.\n\nOn September 14, 2009 Garlasco was suspended with pay after a controversy arose regarding when it was publicized that he collects Nazi memorabilia. Criticism that had started to appear, posted by what the Guardian called Pro-Israeli bloggers, had questioned the appropriateness of Garlasco's hobby. Garlasco has stated his hobby of collecting German and American World War memorabilia from the Second World War is because of his family history and his interest in military history.\n\nOn September 9, 2009 \"The Jerusalem Post\" quoted blogger Omri Ceren saying that Garlasco is \"obsessed with the color and pageantry of Nazism, has published a detailed 430-page book on Nazi war paraphernalia, and participates in forums for Nazi souvenir collectors\". Other newspapers such as \"The Guardian\" and \"Haaretz\" covered the controversy in the following days.\n\n\"The Guardian\" reported on what it described as \"mounting internet attacks on Garlasco\". Pro-Israeli bloggers had questioned the appropriateness of Garlasco's hobby and discovered one blogpost in which Garlasco wrote, \"The leather SS jacket makes my blood go cold it is so COOL!\"\n\nIsraeli Prime Minister Benyamin Netanyahu's policy director commented that Human Rights Watch's employment of \"a man who trades and collects Nazi memorabilia\" as its senior military expert is a \"new low\".\n\nThough Garlasco initially responded to the allegations under the pen name Flak88, writing \"I would reply, but I don't want to encourage them... Anyway, I doubt if they read my book. More than anything else, it is related to my work.\"\n\nHRW Communications Director Emma Daly at first responded to the charge by saying, \"Marc Garlasco is not pro-Nazi. These allegations are monstrous. He does not delve into Nazi memorabilia. Garlasco is a student of military history and he has an interest in military history\". HRW later issued an official statement that the accusation against Garlasco \"is demonstrably false and fits into a campaign to deflect attention from Human Rights Watch's rigorous and detailed reporting on violations of international human rights and humanitarian law by the Israeli government,\" adding that Garlasco \"has never held or expressed Nazi or anti-Semitic views\". HRW associate director Carroll Bogert accused \"The Guardian\" of \"repeat[ing] defamatory nonsense unworthy of [the] newspaper,\" adding that \"[t]he allegations of pro-Nazi sympathies are part of a larger campaign to smear non-governmental organisations which criticise the Israel Defense Forces' conduct of the Gaza offensive\". Iain Levine, the watchdog's programme director responded by saying that \"The Israeli government is trying to eliminate the space for legitimate criticism of the conduct of the IDF, and this is the latest salvo in that campaign\".\n\nIn what has been described by Ed Pilkington of \"The Guardian\" as an \"abrupt change of tact\" (\"sic\") for Human Rights Watch, Garlasco was \"suspended with pay\" from HRW pending an investigation. According to Bogert, \"[W]e have questions as to whether we've learned everything we need to know\". Regarding the suspension, HRW has indicated \"This is not a disciplinary measure. Human Rights Watch stands behind Garlasco's research and analysis\".\n\nCritics of Human Rights Watch have suggested that Garlasco's enthusiasm for Nazi-era badges and uniforms goes beyond historical interest and raises questions Nazi sympathy or anti-Semitism.\n\nNGO Monitor, an Israeli NGO that monitors human rights organisations for perceived political bias, described Garlasco's hobby as \"problematic\" and \"insensitive\". John Richardson of \"Esquire\" magazine wrote that because Garlasco has criticized Israel for alleged human-rights violations, \"NGO Monitor has decided to try to destroy Marc Garlasco — not to argue with him or dispute his statistics, but to destroy him personally.\"\n\nAntony Lerman, former director of the Institute for Jewish Policy Research, wrote that Human Rights Watch failed to see Garlasco's hobby \"could be used to discredit his role as author of highly critical reports of Israel's military conduct in Gaza\". Lerman further wrote that Garlasco working \"on reports critical of Hamas and Hezbollah was ignored\", concluding that \"as another excuse to attack HRW, and deflect attention from its reports' findings, the Garlasco affair was a gift\".\n\nYaron Ezrahi, a Professor of Political Science at the Hebrew University of Jerusalem, said he did not believe that Mr. Garlasco's interest in memorabilia could support allegations of \"premeditated bias,\" though he indicated it may hurt Human Rights Watch's credibility, and that the revelations had \"armed the right-wing fanatics\" who try to \"demonize\" anybody who questions the effects of Israeli military operations. A group of ten Israeli rights groups also protested that the Israeli government has been attempting to \"instill fear and silence or alarm vital organizations\" that were engaging in free public discourse.\n\nIn the \"Christian Science Monitor\", Robert Marquand claimed Garlasco's critics were using him \"to distract from or obfuscate findings that war crimes and crimes against humanity may have taken place in Gaza\" and that a U.N. report by Richard Goldstone showed illegal white phosphorus use consistent with Garlasco's first hand testimony.\n\nIn \"Nazi scandal hits human rights group\", Katie Engelhart in \"Macleans\" magazine reported that \"For HRW, the timing of the exposé could not be worse. The group has thrown its weight behind the UN-sponsored Goldstone report, which accuses both Israel and the Palestinians of committing war crimes in the Gaza strip earlier this year. Garlasco's actions will surely lead many to question the group's credibility\".\n\nAccording to the New York Times, HRW Middle East advisory committee member Helena Cobban questioned on her blog whether Garlasco's military collecting activities were \"something an employer like Human Rights Watch ought to be worried about? After consideration, I say Yes\". NGO Monitor head Gerald M. Steinberg, a Professor of Political Science at Bar Ilan University, argued that Human Rights Watch's response to the matter was \"too little, too late\". Cobban says in suspending Garlasco Human Rights Watch is now \"in a better position to take part in the public discussion in this country on what our government should be doing with regard to the Goldstone report\".\n\nEmma Daly confirmed in March 2010 that Garlasco resigned from Human Rights Watch in February 2010, and offered no elaboration. A reporter from the \"Times Online\" attempted to contact Garlasco, who wouldn't comment. A friend of Garlasco's indicated he had \"in effect\" been fired, but had entered into a confidentiality agreement with HRW in which he would be paid for the remainder of his contract if he kept silent. Gerald M. Steinberg, in an op-ed in the Ottawa Citizen, wrote that while HRW had promised an investigation, it has not offered any information about it to the public, or addressed the issue of the credibility of Garlasco's reports on Israeli human rights violations.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "35274106", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35274106", "title": "Mary Queen of Scots Got Her Head Chopped Off", "text": "Mary Queen of Scots Got Her Head Chopped Off\n\nMary Queen of Scots Got Her Head Chopped Off is a 1987 play by Liz Lochhead. It explores the relationship between Elizabeth I of England and Mary Stuart. It is primarily written to be from a female point of view, and is considered to be Lochhead's most successful and critically acclaimed play. According to the BBC website:\n\nIt was first performed by the Communicado Theatre Company at the 1987 Edinburgh Festival. Mary Queen of Scots Got Her Head Chopped Off was broadcast as a radio play directed by Marilyn Imrie by BBC Radio 4 on 11 February 2001. \n\nThe National Theatre of Scotland toured a new production of the play across Scotland in 2009, directed by Alison Peebles who played Elizabeth in the original production. \"Mary Queen of Scots Got Her Head Chopped Off\" was revived again on stage in 2011, and toured to Lyceum Theatre, Edinburgh and Dundee Rep Theatre.\n\n"}
{"id": "13333872", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13333872", "title": "Mishpacha", "text": "Mishpacha\n\nMishpacha (, \"Family\") is the flagship magazine in a weekly magazine package produced by The Mishpacha Group in both English and Hebrew. \n\nThe Mishpacha Publishing Group was founded in 1984 with the publication of the Hebrew Mishpacha magazine. Publisher and CEO Eli Paley teamed with Rabbi Moshe Grylak towards the goal of producing a magazine that would serve as a conduit for the exchange of ideas and values between the varying streams within Jewish orthodoxy, among them the Hasidic, Yeshivish, Sephardic, and Modern Orthodox communities. With no other weekly or monthly magazines geared towards Orthodox Jewish readership at that time, Mishpacha quickly gained popularity, in effect launching the Jewish Orthodox magazine industry.\n\nFirst beginning as a monthly, it became a weekly in the beginning of 1991.\n\nThe English Mishpacha launched in 2004 with a weekly package including the flagship Mishpacha Magazine and Mishpacha Junior. Mishpacha was the first full-color weekly magazine targeting the Anglo-Orthodox population worldwide, with the standalone children's magazine also serving as an innovation. Family First, introduced to the package in 2005, was also the first of its kind, a full-color weekly magazine by and for Jewish women.\n\nMishpacha frequently addresses social problems. For example, it has addressed issues such as the \"shababniks\" (Haredi street youth) and violence in the family; and has waged a battle against educational institutions’ discrimination against Mizrahim and the newly religious. But it brings up these issues without mentioning names, so no one will be hurt.\n\nMishpacha's publications, as a rule, do not print photos of women. There have been rare exceptions to this. For example, when Hillary Clinton was running for president against Donald Trump, the magazine chose to print her face, although very obscured by a blue field. This policy is a break from Jewish tradition. Prior to 1990, most Orthodox publications , such as the Jewish Observer of the Agudas Yisroel of America, would regularly include photos of women.\n\nSome attribute the significant increase in Haredim joining Israel's army to Mishpacha as well as mental health awareness and mental health services access over the past decade amongst Orthodox Jewish populations to the public dialogue stimulated by Mishpacha magazines and other Jewish publications such as Ami.\nMishpacha has been banned by many rabbinical leaders including Rabbi Yosef Shalom Elyashiv. However, Mishpacha has turned to the rabbinical court of the Haredi community (Badatz) which forbade harassment of the magazine.\nHaaretz, the newspaper of Israel's secular left, describes the Hebrew version of \"Mishpacha\" as one of the \"most powerful\" newspapers in the Haredi community.\n\n"}
{"id": "2665811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2665811", "title": "Ms. Olympia", "text": "Ms. Olympia\n\nMs. Olympia is the title given to the winner of the women's bodybuilding portion of Joe Weider's Olympia Fitness & Performance Weekend—an international professional bodybuilding competition that was held annually by the International Federation of BodyBuilders (IFBB). It was first held in 1980, and from 2000 to 2014 it has been held at the same time as the Mr. Olympia contest as part of the \"Olympia Weekend\". The 2000 contest also saw the introduction of weight classes. No overall winner was named in 2000, but starting in 2001, a posedown between the two class winners decided the overall title. In 2005, the contest returned to the one open class format. The top overall winners are Iris Kyle (ten overall and two heavyweight), Lenda Murray (eight), Corinna Everson (six), and Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls (four). In 2014, the final Ms. Olympia competition was held.\n\nIn 1980, the first Ms. Olympia (initially known as the \"Miss\" Olympia) was held with Rachel McLish winning and becoming the first Ms. Olympia. Rachel was dethroned by Ritva Elomaa in 1981, but regained the title in 1982. George Snyder lost the rights to the Ms. Olympia in 1982, and after this the contestants were no longer hand-picked, but instead qualified for the Ms. Olympia through placings in lesser contests. As female bodybuilding grew and progressed, the competitors' level of training gradually increased, with most of the competitors in the earliest shows having very little weight training experience, and the sport slowly evolving towards more muscular physiques. This trend started to emerge in 1983, with McLish not competing in the big shows, Carla Dunlap won the 1983 Ms. Olympia. Dunlap possessed a much more muscular physique than previous Ms. Olympia winners McLish or Elomaa.\n\nIn 1984, Corinna Everson won the Ms. Olympia title. Everson would go on to win six consecutive Ms. Olympia titles in a row before retiring in 1989 undefeated as a professional, the only woman ever to accomplish this.\n\nNormally, competitors must qualify for the Ms. Olympia by achieving certain placings in lesser pro contests. However, the cancellation of the Women's Pro World contest in 1990 left only the Ms. International as a Ms. Olympia qualifier. Consequently, the IFBB decided to open the 1990 Ms. Olympia to all women with pro cards, and a field of thirty competitors entered. This was also the first Ms. Olympia without the incumbent Ms. Olympia champion defending her title. Lenda Murray earned a decisive victory by winning the first Ms. Olympia competition she attended in 1990 and emerging as the successor to Corinna Everson. The 1991 Ms. Olympia was the first to be televised live. Lenda Murray barely edged out Bev Francis, a former Australian powerlifter, by a single point that year. Lenda Murray faced a serious challenge from Denise Rutkowski in 1993, and some argue that Rutkowski, not Murray, should have won that year. Rutkowski shocked the Ms. Olympia contest entourage and fans by retiring in 1994, just as her career was gaining mainstream popularity and her potential for winning a Ms. Olympia title was high.\n\nIn the 1996 Ms. Olympia, six-time consecutive Ms. Olympia champion Lenda Murray was dethroned by Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls (then known as Kim Chizevsky). Chizevsky-Nicholls had previously placed 2nd in the 1995 Ms. Olympia, but her victory came as something of a surprise, since many had regarded Murray as virtually unbeatable. After being defeated by Chizevsky-Nicholls and placing second again in the 1997 Ms. Olympia, Murray retired from bodybuilding. Chizevsky-Nicholls went on to win the 1998 Ms. Olympia, held in Prague, Czech Republic, the first and only time the competition had been held outside the United States.\n\nIn response to the increased size displayed by Murray and Francis at the previous Ms. Olympia, the IFBB made an attempt to \"feminize\" the sport. The IFBB, led by Ben Weider, had created a series of \"femininity\" rules—one line in the judging rules said that competitors should not be \"too big\". The judges’ guide to the competitors stated that they were looking for a feminine, but not emaciated, physique. Advertising in Muscle & Fitness for the 1992 Ms. Olympia featured Anja Schreiner of Germany prominently, relegating two-time defending champion Murray to a small \"also competing\" notice. Nevertheless, Murray apparently met the \"femininity\" requirements, and managed to retain her title; Schreiner finished 6th, and promptly retired from competition. After 1992, the judging rules were rewritten, with the new rules retaining provisions for aesthetics but allowing the contests to be judged as physique contests. Murray went on to win six consecutive Ms. Olympia titles from 1990 to 1995, matching Corinna Everson's record.\n\nThe 1999 Ms. Olympia was originally scheduled to be held on October 9 in Santa Monica, California. However, one month before the scheduled date, the IFBB announced that the contest had been cancelled. The main cause was the withdrawal of promoter Jarka Kastnerova (who promoted the 1998 contest in Prague) for financial reasons, including a low number of advance ticket sales for the 1999 event. The backlash following the announcement led to a flurry of activity, with the contest being rescheduled as part of the Women's Extravaganza (promoted by Kenny Kassel and Bob Bonham) in Secaucus, New Jersey on 2 October. Last minute sponsorship came from several sources, most significantly in the form of $50,000 from Flex magazine. Amid all the turmoil, Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls won her fourth consecutive Ms. Olympia title. Also notable about the 1999 Ms. Olympia was that this was the first Ms. Olympia Iris Kyle competed in. However, after the 1999 Ms. Olympia, Kim Chizevsky-Nicholls retired from bodybuilding and began competing in fitness and figure competitions in 2001.\n\nThe 2001 Ms. Olympia featured a \"surprise\" win from Juliette Bergmann who returned to competition after not competing since 1989. Entering the Olympia as a lightweight, she defeated heavyweight winner Iris Kyle for the overall title. In the five years that the Ms. Olympia was contested in multiple weight classes, this was the only time that the lightweight winner took the overall title.\n\nAfter five-year absence, six-time Olympia winner Lenda Murray returned to the 2002 Ms. Olympia, with Bergmann won lightweight and Murray winning heavyweight and overall. Murray went on to win both the heavyweight and overall in the 2002 and 2003 Ms. Olympia. Murray was for the second time in her career was dethroned of her Ms. Olympia title by Iris Kyle in 2004, who won the heavyweight and overall. After her 2004 Ms. Olympia defeat, Murray, retired from bodybuilding.\n\nThe IFBB introduced several changes to Ms. Olympia in 2000. The first change was that Ms. Olympia contest would no longer be held as a separate contest, instead became part of the \"Olympia Weekend\" in Las Vegas and held the day before the men’s show. The second change was when heavyweight and lightweight classes where added. The third change was the new judging guidelines for presentations were introduced. A letter to the competitors from Jim Manion (chairman of the Professional Judges Committee) stated that women would be judged on healthy appearance, face, makeup, and skin tone. The criteria given in Manion's letter included the statement \"symmetry, presentation, separations, and muscularity BUT NOT TO THE EXTREME!\" The 2000 Ms. Olympia is the only Ms. Olympia with no overall winner, with Andrulla Blanchette winning lightweight class and Valentina Chepiga winning heavyweight class.\n\nThe IFBB introduced the so-called '20 percent rule', requesting \"that female athletes in Bodybuilding, Fitness and Figure decrease the amount of muscularity by a factor of 20%\". The memo stated that the request \"applies to those female athletes whose physiques require the decrease\". Another change added to the 2005 Ms. Olympia, was the abandonment of the weight class system adopted in 2000. In 2005 Ms. Olympia, Iris Kyle was dethroned by Yaxeni Oriquen-Garcia.\n\nIris Kyle reclaimed her Ms. Olympia title in 2006. Iris Kyle has gone on to win nine consecutive Ms. Olympia's in a row from 2006, 2007, 2008, 2009, 2010, 2011, 2012, 2013, and 2014. With ten overall wins, Kyle has won more Olympia titles, male or female, than any other bodybuilder, and announced her retirement right after winning the title in 2014, which was when the final Ms. Olympia competition was held.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "53325865", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53325865", "title": "Mt. Carmel Cemetery (Philadelphia)", "text": "Mt. Carmel Cemetery (Philadelphia)\n\nMt. Carmel is a Jewish cemetery in the Wissinoming neighborhood of Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. It was established in the mid-1800s.\n\n"}
{"id": "58010817", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58010817", "title": "Parade of sovereignties", "text": "Parade of sovereignties\n\nThe parade of sovereignties (, Parad suverenitetov) was a series of declarations of sovereignty of various degree by the constituents of the Soviet Union in late 1980s - early 1990s. These declarations stated the priority of the constituent republic power within its territory over the central power, which have led to the War of Laws between the center and the republics. The process followed the loosened power grip of the Communist Party of the Soviet Union as a result of \"demokratizatsiya\" policy of the \"perestroika\" period of Mikhail Gorbachev. Despite the efforts of Gorbachev to preserve the union under a new treaty in the form of the Union of Sovereign States, soon afterwards many constituents declared their full independence, and the process resulted in the dissolution of the Soviet Union.\n\nThe first region to declare independence was the Nakhichevan Autonomous Soviet Socialist Republic (January 19, 1990; however Heydar Aliyev, the leader of Azerbaijan SSR, having roots in Nakhchivan, managed to keep Nakhchivan Republic within Azerbaijan).\n\nThe first top-level Soviet republic to declare independence was Estonian SSR (November 16, 1988: Estonian Sovereignty Declaration, March 30, 1990: decree on the transition to the restoration of the Estonian statehood, May 8, 1990: Law on the State Symbols, which declared the independence , August 20, 1991: Law of the Estonian restoration of Independence).\n\nThis massive secessionist event has served as a testbench for various theories of secession.\n"}
{"id": "4322551", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4322551", "title": "Park Theatre (Manhattan)", "text": "Park Theatre (Manhattan)\n\nThe Park Theatre, originally known as the New Theatre, was a playhouse in New York City, located at 21, 23, and 25 Park Row, about east of Ann Street and backing Theatre Alley. The location, at the north end of the city, overlooked the park that would soon house City Hall. French architect Marc Isambard Brunel collaborated with fellow émigré Joseph-François Mangin and his brother Charles on the design of the building in the 1790s. Construction costs mounted to precipitous levels, and changes were made in the design; the resulting theatre had a rather plain exterior. The doors opened in January 1798.\n\nIn its early years, the Park enjoyed little to no competition in New York City. Nevertheless, it rarely made a profit for its owners or managers, prompting them to sell it in 1805. Under the management of Stephen Price and Edmund Simpson in the 1810s and 1820s, the Park enjoyed its most successful period. Price and Simpson initiated a star system by importing English talent and providing the theatre a veneer of upper-class respectability. Rivals such as the Chatham Garden and Bowery theatres appeared in the 1820s, and the Park had to adapt to survive. Blackface acts and melodrama squeezed Italian opera and English drama out of their preferential positions. Nevertheless, the theatre maintained its upscale image until it burned down in 1848.\n\nIn the late 18th century, New York's only playhouse was the decaying and increasingly low-brow John Street Theatre. Tired of attending such an establishment, a group of wealthy New Yorkers began planning the construction of a new playhouse in 1795. Investors bought 113 shares at $375 each to cover the estimated $42,375 cost. To plan the structure, the owners hired celebrated architect Marc Isambard Brunel, a Frenchman who had fled to New York to avoid the Reign of Terror and was then the city's engineer. Part way through construction, however, the project ran out of money. The owners sold more shares for what would eventually mount to a construction cost of more than $130,000. \nAs a cost-saving measure, Brunel's exterior design for the building was not implemented. The resulting three-story structure measured wide by deep and was made of plain dressed stone. The overall effect was an air of austerity. The interiors, on the other hand, were quite lavish. The building followed the traditional European style of placing a gallery over three tiers of boxes, which overlooked the U-shaped pit.\n\nThe section of Manhattan where the theatre stood was not stylish: the New Theatre, as it was called, was neighbor to Bridewell Prison, a tent city's worth of squatters, and the local poorhouse. Lewis Hallam, Jr., and John Hodgkinson, both members of the John Street Theatre company, obtained the building's lease. They hired remnants of the Colonial Old American Company to form the nucleus of the theatre's in-house troupe and thus give the establishment the sheen of tradition and American culture. Meanwhile, the men quarreled, and construction continued languorously. The theatre finally held its first performance on January 29, 1798, despite still being under construction. The gross was an impressive $1,232, and, according to theatre historian T. Allston Brown, hundreds of potential patrons had to be turned away.\nNew York newspapers generally praised the New Theatre:\n\nOn Monday evening last, the New Theatre was opened to the most overflowing house that was ever witnessed in this city. Though the Commissioners have been constrained to open it in an unfinished state, it still gave high satisfaction.\n\nThe essential requisites of hearing and seeing have been happily attained. We do not remember to have been in any Theatre where the view of the stage is so complete from all parts of the house, or where the actors are heard with such distinctness. The house is made to contain about 2,000 persons. The audience part, though wanting in those brilliant decorations which the artists have designed for it, yet exhibited a neatness and simplicity which were highly agreeable. The stage was everything that could be wished. The scenery was executed in a most masterly style. The extensiveness of the scale upon which the scenes are executed, the correctness of the designs, and the elegance of the painting, presented the most beautiful views which the imagination can conceive. The scenery was of itself worth a visit to the theatre.\n\nThe theatre offered performances on Mondays, Wednesdays, Fridays, and Saturdays. William Dunlap eventually joined the management team. Hallam parted mid-season, and Hodgkinson waited for season's end before doing the same. Dunlap remained as sole proprietor; his expenses were so great that he had to make at least $1,200 per week to break even. He left in 1805 after declaring bankruptcy. After a few more failed managers, the owners sold the theatre to John Jacob Astor and John Beekman in 1805. These men kept it until its demolition in 1848.\n\nOver three months in 1807, English-born architect John Joseph Holland remodeled the theatre's interior. He added gas lighting, coffee rooms, roomier boxes, and a repainted ceiling.\n\nAfter acquiring a controlling interest in the theatre, Stephen Price became manager in 1808. He instituted a star system, whereby he paid English actors and actresses to play English dramas there. Price spent much time in England, including four years (1826–1830) as manager of the Theatre Royal, Drury Lane, where he recruited successful actors for the Park and for a circuit of theatres in other American cities. During this period, Price left much of the operating management of the theatre to Edmund Simpson. The Park at this point was already known for high-class entertainments, but Price and Simpson's policies helped to reinforce this as they booked English drama, Italian opera, and other upper-class bills, such as actress Clara Fisher. Price and Simpson also fostered the careers of many American performers, including Edwin Forrest and Charlotte Cushman.\n\nThe Park burned down in May 1820, and was entirely destroyed except for its exterior walls. The owners rebuilt the following year, and reopened in September 1821.\nIn the early 1820s, the New Theatre was New York's only theatre, and the lack of competition allowed the theatre to enjoy its most profitable period. The Chatham Garden Theatre was built in 1823 and provided the first real challenge to the Park's primacy; the Bowery Theatre followed in 1826. The New Theatre, having lost its newness, became known as the Park Theatre around this time. At first, each of the rivals aimed for the same upper-class audience. However, by the late 1820s and early 1830s, the Bowery and Chatham Garden had begun to cater to a more working-class clientele. In comparison, the Park became the theatre of choice for \"bon ton\". This was helped by the evolution of its neighborhood. New York home owners had steadily moved northward from Bowling Green so that by this point, the Park stood in an upper-class residential area and fronted City Hall and a large park. Coffeehouses and hotels soon followed.\n\nDespite its upper-class luster, however, some commentators found due cause to criticize the Park. In her landmark book, \"Domestic Manners of the Americans\", the British writer Frances Trollope gave a mixed review:\n\nThe piece was extremely well got up, and on this occasion we saw the Park Theatre to advantage, for it was filled with well-dressed company; but still we saw many 'yet unrazored lips' polluted with the grim tinge of hateful tobacco, and heard, without ceasing, the spitting, which of course is its consequence. If their theaters had the orchestra of the Feydeau, and a choir of angels to boot, I could find but little pleasure, so long as they were followed by this running accompaniment of \"thorough base\".\n\nBy the late 1830s, blackface acts and Bowery-style melodrama had come to eclipse traditional drama in popularity for New York audiences. Simpson adapted, booking more novelty acts and entertainments that emphasized spectacle over high culture. The patronage changed, as well, as the \"New York Herald\" noted:\n\nOn Friday night the Park Theatre contained 83 of the most profligate and abandoned women that ever disgraced humanity; they entered in the same door, and for a time mixed indiscriminately with 63 virtuous and respectable ladies... Men of New York, take not your wives and daughters to the Park Theatre, until Mr. Simpson pays some respect to them by constructing a separate entrance for the abandoned of the sex.\n\nNevertheless, the theatre's traditional patronage continued to support it, and the Park largely maintained its high-class reputation.\n\nEdgar Allan Poe wrote a more critical editorial in the \"Broadway Journal\":\n\nThe well-trained company of rats at the Park Theatre understand, it is said, their cue perfectly. It is worth the price of admission to see their performance. By long training they know precisely the time when the curtain rises, and the exact degree in which the audience is spellbound by what is going on. At the sound of the bell [signaling the start of the show] they sally out; scouring the pit for chance peanuts and orange-peel. When, by the rhyming couplets, they are made aware that the curtain is about to fall, they disappear—through the intensity of the performers. A profitable engagement might be made, we think, with \"the celebrated Dog Bill [part of William Cole's act in P. T. Barnum's American Museum].\n\nThe Park Theatre was finally destroyed by fire on December 16, 1848. The Astor family opted not to rebuild it, the more fashionable clientele having moved north to Washington Square and Fifth Avenue; instead they had stores constructed on the site.\n\nNotes\nSources\n"}
{"id": "9538397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9538397", "title": "Photomarathon", "text": "Photomarathon\n\nA photomarathon is a photography competition in which participants must take a series of photographs on predetermined subjects in a set period of time, typically 12 to 24 hours. On most competitions, part of the rules is that photos should be handed in \"straight out of camera\" -with no post-editing or production allowed. Photos are typically judged using criteria that combine photographic technique and creativity in interpreting the theme.\n\nThere are over 74 competitions worldwide which use some variations of the rules above.\n\nThe photomarathon concept started in Madrid in 1986, before being taken up in Copenhagen, Denmark, where a competition has been taking place annually since 1989. In 2014 the Danish competition took place in Copenhagen and Aalborg, with separate competitions lasting 6, 12 and 24 hours, for both digital cameras and mobile phones.\n\nThe photographic marathon is an idea generated by Eduardo Soto Perez, Antonio Bolivar Sanchez Cañete, who then were called Collective Cartela (along with Juan Antonio Manzano Aróstegui and Luis Alvarez Gallovich), in late 1983. In 1984, presented to the Youth Department of the City of Madrid (Spain), where Chema de Mingo and Chus Medrano considered the interest of its sponsorship to the cultural dynamism of the city. They obtained the support of Kodak Spain and Albacolor laboratories.\n\nIn 1985 they managed to launch the first edition in Madrid with a surprising success participation (2500 photographers). This competition would be quickly imitated in cities across Spain and many others around the world. The Collective Cartela itself organized 4 successive editions in Madrid. Also held in Santiago de Compostela (Spain) and later, with his partner, Antonio de Juana, in Lisbon (Portugal).\n\nFor 24 hours the photographers had to make 24 photographs with themes that were provided to them 4 by 4, at checkpoints that were performed every 4 hours. The first edition included 2512 participants, the film was in black and white. Participants should pass 6 dynamic controls plus the final film`s collection point. This structure was established as a functional dynamics for subsequent editions. Several version came later, half marathons of 12 hours or even less were made.\n\nGiven the impossibility that existed in Spain to properly register an idea, Eduardo Soto Perez and Antonio Bolívar, now as the company Mil Millones, SA, they proceeded to register Photographic marathon at the Legal Deposit (M-28891-1986) being subsequently also registered in the Registry of Intellectual Property of Madrid with the number 02482. The idea triumphed and soon spread in cities across Spain and other countries, photographic marathons were and are still held in many cities. In 1987 a first Photo Marathon was held in New York, in Stockholm in 1988. In 1989 hold his first Copenhagen Photomarathon, following Berlin in 1998. Both events continue to organize annually.\n\nPhotomarathons and the European Month of Photography\n\nIn 2010 Photomarathons were first represented during the European Month of Photography, with a joint exhibition in Berlin, under the theme \"Time travel\". The exhibition was a retrospective of the 10 years of the Photomarathon in Berlin, and included the three winning series of Copenhagen and Cardiff photomarathons.\n\nIn 2012, the photomarathons in the cities of Copenhagen, Cardiff and Berlin shared the same topic, with the winning photographs in each city being exhibited in the others.\n\nOne reason for the massive success of this contest was to combine photography and action: conducting urban photographic adventures.\n\nThe proposed themes stimulate the creativity of the participants (for example: \"They come from abroad\"), thousands of photographers concentrated in certain parts of the city in a precise moment (“Walking by Puerta del Sol at twelve o'clock when I decided to take a picture of the clock\"), or filled parks with excited reporters trying to capture the image suggested (\"Elf, a costumed character who must be locate and photograph in the Buen Retiro Park”).\n\nThis opened a new dimension to photographic competitions introducing ingenuity, spontaneity, active participation and creativity, and perseverance and physical and mental strength to complete 24 hours of the contest.\n\nThe photographers competed but also made friends, had fun and acquired a better knowledge of their city, museums, places and services. In addition the organization prepared in each control artistic and cultural activities (small plays of theater, exhibition of short films, musical performances, art exhibitions, participatory structures, mazes, swimming in a public pool at dawn, etc.) all that were organized exclusively for the photographers during the contest.\n\nSome of the topics that were proposed along 4 editions held in Madrid: \"Self Portrait,\" \"Music, music, music\", \"News of the Day\", \"Sunrise in Madrid\" \"Morning Sport\", \"Nature, flora and fauna\", \"Madrid`s Cocidito\", \"Will jump to 12.00 from the top of the Torre de Madrid\", \"Stumble\", \"Untitled\", \"Farewell\" , etc.\n\nThe jury, choose among photographers and artists of renown (Ouka Lele, Miguel Trillo, Ciuco, Jorge Arranz, etc.) and, from the second edition on, incorporating the winners of the previous editions (Daniel Font, Amador Toril Jose Antonio Red, etc.). The awards were given at a mass party followed for an exhibition of photographs of the winners.\n\nThe photomarathon has also been used by some educationalists as a study aid.\n\nThere are over 80 photomarathons held around the world in over 30 countries. The vast majority are throughout Europe, North America and South America. In Asia there is a competition in Yangon, Myanmar and since 2014 in Shenyang, China. In Africa a photomarathon is held in Nairobi, Kenya.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25339206", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25339206", "title": "Pickens Hall", "text": "Pickens Hall\n\nPickens Hall was a vaudeville venue at Heuvelton in St. Lawrence County, New York. It was built in 1858 and is a three-story, rectangular stone building, 65 feet wide and 74 feet deep. It is an Italianate style building with commercial space on the first floor and office/storage rooms on the second floor. There is a General Store on the first floor, function space on the second, and a newly restored Opera House on the third floor which serves as a venue for various performances. The $2.75 million restoration project just received an \"Excellence in Historic Preservation\" award from the Preservation League of NY State.\n\nIt is listed on the National Register of Historic Places in 2004.\n\nIn 2007 The Heuvelton Historical Association received a $50,000 state grant to restore Pickens Hall which is now open as Pickens General Store.\n\n"}
{"id": "22392020", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22392020", "title": "Play party (United States)", "text": "Play party (United States)\n\nA play party is a social event in which people gather to sing and dance. Play parties began in the 1830s in the United States as a route around strict religious practices banning dancing and the playing of musical instruments. The areas most influenced by the practice were the Southern and Midwestern parts of the United States. Folk songs, many of European and English origin, were used as means to give the attendants choreographed movements for each phrase. No instruments were played at the events, as they were banned by the religious movements of the area. Singing and clapping were used to convey each song. Because dancing was banned, the movements took on the quality of children's games. Though the performance of play parties dwindled in the 1950s, music educators use them as ways to incorporate music and dance in their classrooms.\n\nSome traditional examples of play-parties are: Skip to My Lou, Buffalo Gals, Bingo, Pop Goes the Weasel, Old Dan Tucker, Coffee Grows on White Oak Trees, Shoot the Buffalo, etc.\n"}
{"id": "1061521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1061521", "title": "Prophecy of the Popes", "text": "Prophecy of the Popes\n\nThe Prophecy of the Popes () is a series of 112 short, cryptic phrases in Latin which purport to predict the Roman Catholic popes (along with a few antipopes), beginning with Pope Celestine II. The alleged prophecies were first published by Benedictine monk Arnold Wion in 1595. Wion attributes the prophecies to Saint Malachy, a 12th-century Archbishop of Armagh, Ireland.\n\nGiven the very accurate description of popes up to around 1590 and lack of accuracy for the popes that follow, historians generally conclude that the alleged prophecies are a fabrication written shortly before they were published. Certain theologians in the Roman Catholic Church have dismissed them as forgery. The Catholic Church has no official stance on the prophecies, however. \n\nThe prophecies conclude with a pope identified as \"Peter the Roman\", whose pontificate will allegedly precede the destruction of the city of Rome.\n\nThe alleged prophecies were first published in 1595 by a Benedictine named Arnold Wion in his \"Lignum Vitæ\", a history of the Benedictine order. Wion attributed the prophecies to Saint Malachy, the 12th‑century Archbishop of Armagh. He explained that the prophecies had not, to his knowledge, ever been printed before, but that many were eager to see them. Wion includes both the alleged original prophecies, consisting of short, cryptic Latin phrases, as well as an interpretation applying the statements to historical popes up to Urban VII (pope for thirteen days in 1590), which Wion attributes to Alphonsus Ciacconius, an attribution which was refuted by Claude-François Menestrier in 1694.\n\nAccording to an account put forward in 1871 by Abbé Cucherat, Malachy was summoned to Rome in 1139 by Pope Innocent II to receive two wool palliums for the metropolitan sees of Armagh and Cashel. While in Rome, Malachy purportedly experienced a vision of future popes, which he recorded as a sequence of cryptic phrases. This manuscript was then deposited in the Vatican Secret Archives, and forgotten about until its rediscovery in 1590, supposedly just in time for a papal conclave ongoing at the time.\n\nSaint Bernard of Clairvaux, a contemporary biographer of Malachy who recorded the saint's alleged miracles, makes no mention of the prophecies. The earliest known reference to them dates to 1587.\n\nSeveral historians have concluded that the prophecies are a late 16th‑century forgery. Spanish monk and scholar Benito Jerónimo Feijóo y Montenegro wrote in his \"Teatro Crítico Universal\" (1724–1739), in an entry called \"Purported prophecies\", that the high level of accuracy of the alleged prophecies up until the date they were published, compared with their high level of inaccuracy after that date, is evidence that they were created around the time of publication. The prophecies and explanations given in Wion correspond very closely to a 1557 history of the popes by Onofrio Panvinio (including replication of errors made by Panvinio), which may indicate that the prophecies were written based on that source.\n\nOne theory to explain the creation of the prophecies, put forward by 17th-century French priest and encyclopaedist Louis Moréri, among others, is that they were spread by supporters of Cardinal Girolamo Simoncelli in support of his bid to become pope during the 1590 conclave to replace Urban VII. In the prophecies, the pope following Urban VII is given the description \"Ex antiquitate Urbis\" (\"from the old city\"), and Simoncelli was from Orvieto, which in Latin is \"Urbevetanum\", old city. Moréri and others proposed the prophecies were created in an unsuccessful attempt to demonstrate that Simoncelli was destined to be pope.\n\nHowever, the discovery of a reference to the prophecies in a 1587 letter has cast doubt on this theory. In this document the entourage of the Cardinal Giovanni Girolamo Albani interprets the motto \"De rore coeli\" (\"From the dew of the sky\") as a reference to their master, on the base of the link between \"alba\" (\"dawn\") and Albani, and the dew, as a typical morning atmospheric phenomenon.\n\nThe interpretation of the prophecies for pre-publication popes provided by Wion involves close correspondences between the mottos and the popes' birthplaces, family names, personal arms, and pre-papal titles. For example, the first motto, \"Ex castro Tiberis\" (from a castle on the Tiber), fits Pope Celestine II's birthplace in Città di Castello, on the Tiber.\n\nEfforts to connect the prophecies to historical popes who were elected after its publication have been more strained. For example, Pope Clement XIII is referred to in a prophecy as \"Rosa Umbriae\" (the rose of Umbria), but was not from Umbria nor had any but the most marginal connection with the region, having been briefly pontifical governor of Rieti, at the time part of Umbria.\n\nOne writer notes that among the post-publication (post-1595) predictions there remain \"some surprisingly appropriate phrases\", while adding that \"it is of course easy to exaggerate the list's accuracy by simply citing its successes\", and that \"other tags do not fit so neatly\". Among the reported \"successes\" are \"Religion depopulated\" for Benedict XV (1914–22) whose papacy included World War One and the atheistic communist Russian Revolution; \"Light in the sky\" for Leo XIII (1878–1903), with a comet in his coat of arms; and \"Flower of flowers\" for Paul VI (1963–78), with fleur-de-lys in his coat of arms.\n\nPeter Bander, then Head of Religious Education at a Cambridge college, wrote in 1969:\nM. J. O'Brien, a Catholic priest who authored an 1880 monograph on the prophecies, provided a more scathing assessment:\nIn recent times some interpreters of prophetic literature have drawn attention to the prophecies due to their imminent conclusion; if the list of descriptions is matched on a one-to-one basis to the list of historic popes since the prophecies' publication, Benedict XVI (2005–13) would correspond to the second to last of the papal descriptions, \"Gloria olivae\" (the glory of the olive).\nThe longest and final prophecy predicts the Apocalypse:\n\nThis may be translated into English as:\n\nSeveral historians and interpreters of the prophecies note that they leave open the possibility of unlisted popes between \"the glory of the olive\" and the final pope, \"Peter the Roman\". In the \"Lignum Vitae\", the line \"In persecutione extrema S.R.E. sedebit.\" forms a separate sentence and paragraph of its own. While often read as part of the \"Peter the Roman\" prophecy, other interpreters view it as a separate, incomplete sentence explicitly referring to one or more popes between \"the glory of the olive\" and \"Peter the Roman\".\n\nThe list can be divided into two groups; one of the popes and antipopes who reigned prior to the appearance of the prophecies c. 1590, for whom the connection between the motto and the pope is consistently clear. The other is of mottos attributed to popes who have reigned since the appearance of the prophecies, for whom the connection between the motto and the pope is often strained or totally absent and could be viewed as shoehorning or postdiction.\n\nThe list has most commonly been divided between mottos 74 and 75, based on the mottos that were explained by Wion and those that were not. Lorenzo Comensoli Antonini divides the list between mottos 73 and 74, based on the loose connection between Pope Urban VII and the motto \"From the dew of the sky\", and the reference to the prophecy in a 1587 letter, prior to Urban VII's papacy.\n\nRené Thibaut divides the table at a different point, between the 71st and 72nd motto, asserting that there is a change in style at this point. He uses this distinction to put forward the view that the first 71 mottos are post-dated forgeries, while the remainder are genuine. Hildebrand Troll echoes this view, noting that mottos 72–112 use a symbolic language related to the character of the pope and his papacy, in contrast to the more literal mottos for earlier popes.\n\nThe text on the silver lines below reproduces the original text (including punctuation and orthography) of the 1595 \"Lignum Vitae\", which consisted of three parallel columns for the popes before 1590. The first column contained the motto, the second the name of the pope or antipope to whom it was attached (with occasional errors), and the third an explanation of the motto. There are some indications that both the mottos and explanations were the work of a single 16th century individual. The original list was unnumbered.\n\nFor this group of popes, the published text only provides names for the first three (i.e., those who were popes between the appearance of the text c. 1590, and its publication in 1595) and provides no explanations.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4954895", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4954895", "title": "Rainbow Serpent Festival", "text": "Rainbow Serpent Festival\n\nRainbow Serpent Festival is a 4-day annual open-air electronic music, art, and lifestyle festival that takes place during the Australia Day long weekend, around 26 January, in Lexton, Victoria, 160 kilometers west of Melbourne, Australia. The festival is mainly known for psychedelic trance, minimal techno, and chill-out music on its main stage, but it features other genres of electronic music and non-electronic music on the smaller stages. The festival also has many art installations, workshops, and other attractions. The festival has expanded from a solely music event to an event that places an emphasis on sustainability, well-being, performance and art. It includes market stalls, healing arts and multi-cultural foods. Approximately 12,000 people attend the festival each year.\n\nMany people dress up in colourful costumes, often featuring glitter and beads. Some of the days have themes; in 2016, these themes included different colour parties and a Safari day.\n\nThe name Rainbow Serpent comes from the Indigenous Australians dreamtime creation myth of the Rainbow Serpent. The first edition of the festival was in 1998.\n\nFestival organizers have been criticized for the amount of drugs and sexual assault at the event and, in 2016, the future of the festival was questioned. However, fans have defended the festival in response to critical reports. \n\nThe festival has a social services space called \"The Nest\" to address instances of sexual assault and harassment. Victims are given access counselling and support services and medical resources.\n\nThe Main Stage focuses on harder music such as Psytrance. Usually, the stage begins with an ambient act and progressively increases in energy throughout the night. The Main Stage runs for 20 hours, starting at 8:00 pm Saturday night, and finishes 4:00 pm Sunday afternoon.\n\nThe Market Stage plays a large variety of music ranging from ambient music, glitch hop, and tech house to psytrance. The Market Stage is the longest running stage at the festival, starting on the Friday night, and finishing early on Monday evening, it runs for about 72 hours continuously with no breaks except for one hour for the Main Stage opening ceremony. Many of the headliner acts actually play on the Market Stage, rather than on the Main Stage depending on their music style. The Monday afternoon on the Market Stage is widely regarded as one of the highlights of the festival, much like Saturday night on the Main Stage.\n\nThe Sunset Stage plays a variety of music throughout the festival, however, it closes for the 24-hour duration of the Main Stage opening. The Sunset Stage has more acts and genres than the Market Stage and the Main Stage provide.\n\nThe Chillout Stage runs throughout the festival.\n\nThe Playground Stage, introduced to the festival in 2009, focuses on live performance music. The genres covered include dub, reggae, hip-hop, funk, folk, Balkan, electro-swing, cumbia and jazz. It also showcases non-musical performers ranging from magicians to comedians, mimes, and fire twirlers.\n\n2010 - Robert Babicz, David Tipper\n\n2011 - Shpongle. Alex Grey painted live on the Main Stage during Shpongle's performance.\n\n2014 - The Orb\n\n2015 - Pretty Lights\n\n2017 - Hallucinogen\n\nIn 2012, Daniel Buccianti, a 34-year-old man, died due to a heroin overdose. According to Victoria Police the death was not suspicious. That same year, a 25-year-old man suffered a cardiac arrest, also due to a drug overdose. He was hospitalised, but survived.\n\nIn 2014, a man was charged with 210 counts of 'upskirting', and there were numerous other assaults and drug offences, along with ten people being hospitalised many for reasons related to drugs.\n\nIn 2015, a sexual assault was reported to have occurred at the festival, as well as 45 arrests for drug offences and an assault on police.\n\nIn 2017, a 22-year-old man died during the festival after drinking Amyl nitrite. Police also reported two sexual assaults, and a number of assaults, including one assault on police, and drug offences.\n\n\n \n"}
{"id": "28577705", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28577705", "title": "Refah tragedy", "text": "Refah tragedy\n\nThe \"Refah\" tragedy () was a maritime disaster that took place during World War II, in June 1941, when the cargo steamer \"Refah\" of neutral Turkey, carrying Turkish military personnel from Mersin in Turkey to Port Said, Egypt, was sunk in eastern Mediterranean waters by a torpedo fired from an unidentified submarine. Of the 200 passengers and crew aboard, only 32 survived.\n\nTurkey remained neutral until the final year of World War II, but due to its proximity to the fighting, it decided to mobilize a large army in case the country came under attack. In the early stages of the war, the Turkish government had already ordered four submarines, four destroyers, twelve landing craft and aircraft for four flights from the United Kingdom.\n\nDelivery was delayed because of wartime difficulties. Nevertheless, the British decided to make the submarines and aircraft available, fearing a possible pro-German tendency among the Turkish statesmen. It was planned that both the delivery and the training of the military personnel would take place in England. The direct air route from Turkey to England would have meant travelling over Nazi German-controlled Europe, so it was decided to go by sea to Egypt (under British control at the time), then to England by air. The British demanded that the Turkish mission should arrive by 25 June at the latest in Port Said, to join a British convoy going home.\n\nThe Turkish government chartered the steamer \"Refah\", a cargo ship owned by the Berzilay & Benjamen Company. She was built in 1901 at Sunderland, England, and sailed under the name \"Perseveranza\" until renamed \"Refah\" (literally: \"Prosperity\") in 1931 by the Turkish owner. The 3,805-ton vessel was long with beam and draught, and maximum speed. The ship departed from Istanbul on 16 June 1941 and arrived five days later in the southeastern Turkish port of Mersin.\n\nCommander Zeki Işın, appointed leader of the mission, inspected the 40-year-old, coal cargo vessel and reported his findings to the authorities in Ankara: the ship had insufficient cabins, beds and toilets for the estimated 170 passengers she was expected to carry, and only two lifeboats were available, each for 24 people. He concluded that the cargo ship was not suitable for a journey of this kind across the Mediterranean Sea.\n\nThe ship underwent some minor modifications in great haste before the journey. She was fitted with additional toilets, cabins and beds brought from the naval school in Mersin. Turkish colours were painted on both sides of the steamer's hull and also on the weather deck. In order to signal her identity as a neutral country's vessel even in the night, she was brightly lit.\n\nOn 18 June 1941, Nazi Germany and Turkey signed the German–Turkish Treaty of Friendship that followed an invitation by Adolf Hitler with his letter from 4 March 1941 to the Turkish president İsmet İnönü. Meanwhile, Nazi German troops had already invaded the entire Balkans and stood on Turkey's doorstep. While this pact angered the British government, Nazi Germany, its allies and Finland started an offensive (Operation Barbarossa) on 22 June against the Soviet Union, relying on its secure southern front.\n\nThe Turkish military mission came to 171 people, comprising 19 Turkish Navy officers, 72 petty officers, 58 seamen, 20 Turkish Air Force Academy cadets and two civilians. The ship had 28 crew members. A British liaison officer boarded the vessel immediately before her departure, who gave the ship's captain İzzet Dalgakıran the necessary route details.\n\nOn 23 June at 17:30 hours local time, the \"Refah\" weighed anchor, and sailed towards Port Said in eastern Mediterranean waters with a total of 200 people aboard. Turkey was neutral so the voyage was considered safe and the steamer was not escorted by warships.\n\nAround at 22:30 hours, while the passengers were eating their rations throughout the ship, an explosion occurred as the ship was about east off the coast of Cyprus. She was hit by a torpedo fired from an unidentified submarine. The vessel flooded and began to sink.\n\nAccording to the survivors, who later recounted the subsequent events, one of the lifeboats fell into the sea with people sleeping inside. The ship's electrical system went dead and her radio became disabled, so that no distress call could be transmitted. Some passengers fell and some jumped into the water. Lt. Nevzat Erül came alongside the second lifeboat with a pistol in his hand and directed a rescue operation for 24 passengers. However, the lifeboat could not be launched because the davit did not operate. Meanwhile, some people already in the water climbed up the ship, as they did not expect her to sink immediately. People tried to dismount wooden toilet doors and hold covers for use as rafts. Muhittin Darga, one of the survivors, said in an interview given in 1983 that they waited aboard the sinking ship until 02:00 hours, and then jumped into the lifeboat; the ship was so low in the water at this point that the lifeboat was touching the surface. Around four hours after the explosion, the ship snapped in two pieces and went down.\n\nDarga added that the British officer wearing a lifejacket could not get into the lifeboat. He learned later that the British officer was missing. Most of the people who jumped into the sea drowned. The people in the lifeboat rescued three or four victims from the sea. They used a lifeboat's oar as a mast and a blanket as a sail. Although only away from Cyprus, a south wind drove them to the Turkish coast. Those clinging to the makeshift rafts were rescued by boats that came along, while others who left their rafts to swim away drowned. 28 people in the lifeboat landed after 20 hours on the Turkish coast near Karataş lighthouse.\n\nOnly then did the tragedy become known. Military aircraft and motorboats were immediately deployed to the scene. A search was conducted all day long. However, only four more survivors could be rescued. Of the 200 people aboard, the disaster claimed the lives of 168 people in total, while only 32 survived.\n\nTurkey had declared its neutrality in the war eleven times before, and no country claimed responsibility for the attack on the Turkish ship. Britain's ambassador to Turkey, Sir Hughe Knatchbull-Hugessen stated that the attack was made by a Nazi German or Italian submarine operating in the area. This allegation was denied by the Nazi German news agency, DNB. Another assertion that the \"Refah\" was sunk by a French warship, which mistook her for an Egyptian vessel, could not be verified because the passengers did not see any warship. Finally, the British were accused, either because they were not willing to deliver the military equipment ordered by Turkey, or to trigger Turkey's involvement in the war on the side of the Allies.\n\nAccording to Ret. Group Captain Haydar Gürsan, one of the survivors, the ship was torpedoed twice by a French submarine. French reconnaissance aircraft flew over the scene the next morning without reporting the incident to Turkish authorities. He added that a French officer told him in Beirut that the ship was sunk by the French, and this information was also recorded by military intelligence. After reports about Mediterranean marine activities poured in, it became clear that the anonymous submarine belonged to Vichy France. In the summer of 1941, forces of Free France and Vichy France were fighting over Syria; one of Vichy France's submarines mistook \"Refah\" for a vessel of Free France. Later on, although not officially announced, it is believed that French government handed over two of her submarines to Turkey, as a compensation.\n\nHowever, recently disclosed documents from Italian and German archives support an alternative story. A report published by the Italian Navy gives coordinates where the Italian submarine \"Ondina\" attacked vessels. The site of \"Refah\"<nowiki>'</nowiki>s sinking matches this information.\n\nAfter the disaster became generally known, discussions in the Turkish parliament led to the opening of an investigation into the case. Minister of Transport Cevdet Kerim İncedayı and Minister of National Defence Saffet Arıkan resigned from the cabinet on 12 November 1941. The parliamentary investigation, concluded on 18 December found these ministers free of guilt. A further investigation found the responsible civil servants not guilty.\n\nThe Turkish government paid 4,000 Turkish lira (TL) in compensation to each legal inheritor of the people killed in the disaster, 800 TL to each naval officer, 400 TL to each petty officer and cadet, and 100 TL to each seaman who survived the incident.\n\nIn remembrance of the victims of the tragedy, a monument was erected in the Atatürk Park of Mersin, which is situated next to the Port of Mersin.\n"}
{"id": "11648538", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11648538", "title": "Saladin: The Animated Series", "text": "Saladin: The Animated Series\n\nSaladin (Arabic: صلاح الدين \"Ṣalāḥ ad-Dīn\") is an animated project inspired by the life Salah Al-Din Yusuf Ibni Ayub, the Islamic hero who united Muslims in the holy war against the Crusaders in the 12th century. The series was conceived and produced by the Multimedia Development Corporation (MDeC) in Malaysia. Saladin will be a 13-part animated TV series. Production started in May 2004 and a six-minute trailer was previewed during the Multimedia Super Corridor’s 10th Anniversary celebration in April 2005. The first (new) episode aired in late 2009, which afterwards, was one of the biggest Animation successes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15484577", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15484577", "title": "Santa María School massacre", "text": "Santa María School massacre\n\nThe Santa María School massacre was a massacre of striking workers, mostly saltpeter works (nitrate) miners, along with wives and children, committed by the Chilean Army in Iquique, Chile on December 21, 1907. The number of victims is undetermined but is reliably estimated at over 2,000. It occurred during the peak of the nitrate mining era, which coincided with the Parliamentary Period in Chilean political history (1891–1925). With the massacre and an ensuing reign of terror, not only was the strike broken, but the workers' movement was thrown into limbo for over a decade. For decades afterward there was official suppression of knowledge of the incident, but in 2007 the government conducted a highly publicized commemoration of its centenary, including an official national day of mourning and the reinterment of the victims' remains. \n\nThe site of the massacre was the Domingo Santa María School, where thousands of miners from different nitrate mines in Chile's far north had been camping for a week after converging on Iquique, the regional capital, to appeal for government intervention to improve their living and working conditions. Rafael Sotomayor Gaete, the minister of the interior, decided to crush the strike, by army assault if need be. On December 21, 1907, the commander of the troops at the scene, General Roberto Silva Renard, in accordance with this plan, informed the strikers' leaders that the strikers had one hour to disband or be fired upon. When the time was up and the leaders and the multitude stood firm, General Silva Renard gave his troops the order to fire. An initial volley that felled the negotiators was followed by a hail of rifle and machine gun fire aimed at the multitude of strikers and their accompanying wives and children.\n\nChilean society faced a crisis from the late 19th century onwards: what was delicately referred to at the time as the \"social question\"—namely, \"the problem of worsening living and working conditions in the country's mining centers and major cities\" The nitrate miners' strike of December 1907 was the last of a series of strikes and other forms of unrest that began in 1902, chief among them being the strike in Valparaíso in 1903 and the meat riots in Santiago in 1905. In Chile, the workers' movement in general, and syndicalism in particular, got started among the nitrate miners. \n\nGeographically, the region Chileans today have come to refer to as the Norte Grande (Big North) lies within the Atacama Desert, the driest region on Earth. The Norte Grande and the Norte Chico immediately to the south belong to the Chilean \"pampa\", a vast plain located between the Pacific Ocean and the western foothills of the Andes mountains. The Norte Grande, which administratively consisted (before 1974) of the two Provinces of Tarapacá and Antofagasta, had been seized by Chile from Bolivia and Peru in the War of the Pacific (1879–1884), giving Chile an area rich in minerals, principally copper and saltpeter (sodium nitrate). Tensions provoked by the control of the mines had been one of the leading causes of the 1891 Chilean Civil War, when pro-Congress forces triumphed.\n\nThe mining of nitrate had become the mainstay of the nation's economy at the end of the 19th century, Chile being the exclusive producer worldwide. According to the census of November 28, 1907, Tarapacá Province held 110,000 inhabitants. In the provinces of Tarapacá and Antofagasta about 40,000 workers were active in the nitrate industry, of whom about 13,000 came from Bolivia and Peru. \n\nLife in the mining camps—a nitrate works was known locally as an , a term whose use extended to the adjoining settlement—was grueling and physically dangerous. The enterprises exercised a severe control over the life and working conditions inside the mines, which rendered the workers extremely vulnerable to arbitrary actions perpetrated by the owners. Each \"oficina\" was a company town in which the mine owner owned the workers' housing, owned the company store (known in Chile as a ), monopolized all commerce, and employed a private police force. Each mining camp ran its own money system, paying its workers in tokens, which could be spent only within the mining camp. Mine managers frequently put off paydays for up to three months.\n\nAt the beginning of the 20th century, the above mentioned \"social question\" prompted unrest among the workers at the nitrate \"oficinas\" in the Tarapacá Province. They began to mobilize politically, repeatedly petitioning the national government in Santiago to get involved and bring about improvements in their dreadful living and working conditions. The Parliamentary Period governments, however, were reluctant to intervene in negotiations between employers and workers, and they tended to see large scale workers' movements (especially if accompanied by massive demonstrations) as incipient rebellions.\n\nOn December 10, 1907, a general strike broke out in Tarapacá Province. This was the start of the 18 Pence Strike (\"la huelga de los 18 peniques\"), the name referring to the size of the wage the being demanded by workers in one particular mining occupation, workers known as \"jornaleros\". A large contingent of strikers traveled to the provincial capital, the port city of Iquique, carrying the flags of Chile, Peru, Bolivia, and Argentina. They camped at the horse racing track. As workers from other nitrate works swelled the ranks of this movement, nearly all commerce and industry in the north of the country was brought to a halt. The demands published by the strikers on December 16 in a memorial were as follows:\n\nOn December 16, thousands of striking workers from other industries arrived at Iquique in support of the nitrate miners' demands upon the provincial authorities, with the aim of prodding the authorities to act. Previous entreaties to the government, in particular petitions presented by delegations in 1901, 1903, and 1904, had been fruitless.\n\nThe national government in Santiago sent extra regiments by land and sea to reinforce the two regiments stationed in Iquique. President Pedro Montt appointed General Roberto Silva Renard to handle the situation. Silva Renard, under confidential orders from the minister of the interior, Rafael Sotomayor, was ordered to use all necessary means to force the miners to dissolve and return to work. \n\nMore and more worker contingents joined the strike by the day. It has been estimated that by December 21 the strikers in Iquique numbered ten to twelve thousand. Soon after the journeys to Iquique began, this great conglomeration of workers met in Manuel Montt plaza and at the Santa María School, asking the government mediate between them and the bosses of the foreign (English) nitrate firms to resolve their demands. For their part, the bosses refused to negotiate until the workers went back to work. \n\nThe acting intendant of Tarapacá Province, Julio Guzmán García, mediated negotiations with representatives of the \"pampinos\" (plains dwellers) until the arrival at the port December 19 of the titular intendant, Carlos Eastman Quiroga, and General Roberto Silva Renard, chief of the First Military Zone of the Chilean Army, accompanied by Colonel Sinforoso Ledesma. Their arrival was cheered by the workers because a nitrate miners' petition to the government nearly two years earlier, under the previous president, had received an encouraging response, although the demands had not been satisfied. But the interior ministry felt no solidarity with the demands of the strikers. The ministry relayed orders to the strikers to leave the plaza and the school and gather at the horse racing track, where they were to board trains and return to work. They refused, sensing that if they went back to work, their requests would be ignored. \n\nIn the face of the growing tension between the groups, on December 20, 1907 the strikers' representatives held a meeting with Intendant Eastman. Simultaneously, a decree published in the press announced the declaration of a state of siege, which entailed the suspension of constitutional rights. While the meeting with Intendant Eastman was taking place in the Buenaventura nitrate works, a group of workers and their families tried to leave the spot, but troops opened fire on them by the railroad tracks and kept shooting. As a result, six workers died and the rest of the group was wounded.\n\nThe funerals of the slain workers were held the next day, December 21, 1907. Immediately at their conclusion, all workers were ordered to leave the school premises and vicinity and relocate to the Club Hípico (Horse Club). The workers refused to go, fearing they might be bombarded by the guns of warships which were lined up alongside the road they would have to travel. \n\nAt 2:30 in the afternoon, General Silva Renard told the leaders of the workers' committee that if the strikers did not start heading back to work within one hour, the troops would open fire on them. The workers' leaders refused to go, and only a small group of strikers left the plaza. \n\nAt the hour indicated by Silva Renard, he ordered the soldiers to shoot the workers' leaders, who were on the school's roof, and they fell dead with the first volley. The multitude, desperate and trying to escape, surged toward the soldiers, and were fired upon with rifles and machine guns. After a period of firing from the Manuel Montt plaza, the troops stormed school grounds with machine guns, firing into the school's playgrounds and classrooms, killing in a frenzy without regard to the women and children screaming for mercy. The survivors of the massacre were brought at saber point to the Club Hípico, whence they were sent back to work and subjected to a reign of terror.\n\nThe government ordered that death certificates not be issued for the fallen and had them buried in a mass grave in the city cemetery. The remains were not exhumed until 1940. They were reinterred in the courtyard of the Legal Medical Service of that city. \n\nThe number of victims claimed by the action is disputed. On one hand, the official report of General Silva Renard speaks at first of 140 dead, later to rise to 195. This is the number offered by a witness to the massacre, Nicolás Palacios, a physician in the mines and a political dissident of national renown. However, this figure is considered unrealistic given the number of workers present. The highest estimate has been 3,600, although this is considered speculative. The most widely accepted figure is around 2,200.\n\nGeneral Silva Renard reported to the government in Santiago as to what happened, minimizing his role and laying responsibility on the strikers. The National Congress's reaction was lukewarm. \n\nImprovements in the conditions of the workers came slowly. It would not be until 1920 that minimum labor standards started to be enacted, such as mandating payment in legal tender and setting the maximum length of the working day. General Silva Renard was seriously wounded in 1914 in an assassination attempt on the part of a Spanish anarchist, Antonio Ramón, whose brother, Manuel Vaca, had been one of the victims of the massacre.\n\nOn the occasion of the centenary of the massacre, the government of president Michelle Bachelet ordered the reexhumation of the remains and their interment in a special monument erected at the scene of the deed. Public exhibits were mounted. President Bachelet decreed a national day of mourning for December 21, 2007.\n\nThe facts of the massacre were suppressed by the government for many years. With the passage of time, its tragic details inspired singers and poets, while its social effects were investigated from the middle of the 20th century on. Chief among these artistic and academic works are: \n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "14728263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14728263", "title": "Siege of Tripoli (1271)", "text": "Siege of Tripoli (1271)\n\nThe 1271 Siege of Tripoli was initiated by the Mamluk ruler Baibars against the Frankish ruler of the Principality of Antioch and the County of Tripoli, Bohemond VI. It followed the dramatic Fall of Antioch in 1268, and was an attempt by the Mamluks to completely destroy the Crusader states of Antioch and Tripoli.\n\nIn the mid-13th century, the Crusaders had been steadily losing ground, and were being squeezed between the advancing troops of the Egyptian Mamluks from the south, and the advancing Mongol Empire from the east, with insufficient assistance arriving from Europe in the West. Around 1260, Bohemond VI, under the influence of his father-in-law, King Hethum I of Armenia, had submitted Antioch and Tripoli to the Mongol Empire, making them vassal states which contributed troops to the Mongol forces, in their battles against the Muslims. The Mongols made dramatic victories in Persia and Syria, effectively destroying the Abbasid and Ayyubid Caliphates, and causing a shift of Islamic power to the Egyptian Mamluks in Cairo. However, before the Mongols could continue their advance southwards through Palestine towards Egypt, a succession crisis resulted in the withdrawal of the majority of their troops, as the Mongol princes convened on Karakorum to decide on a new Great Khan. A smaller force was left to occupy Syria and engage in raids through Palestine, but the Crusaders and the Mamluks engaged in a truce, which allowed the Mamluks to advance northwards through Crusader territory, and engage the weakened Mongol force at the Battle of Ayn Jalut in 1260. When the bulk of the Mongol forces returned in 1262, they were never able to avenge the loss. Meanwhile, the Mamluks proceeded to reclaim the rest of the Levant from Crusader hands. Jerusalem had been taken in 1244 by the Khwarezm Turks, and the Egyptian Mamluks worked their way northward, capturing castle after castle.\n\nIn 1268, the Egyptian Mamluks besieged and captured Antioch, leaving Bohemond with only Tripoli. Baibars next turned his sights on Tripoli, and sent a letter to Bohemond threatening him with total annihilation, and taunting him for his alliance with the Mongol ruler Abaqa:\n\nBohemond begged for a truce, so as not to lose Tripoli as well. Baibar mocked him for lack of courage, and asked him to pay all the expenses of the Mamluk campaign. Bohemond had enough pride left to refuse the offer. By this time, the Mamluks had captured every inland castle of the Franks, but the Mamluks had heard reports about the arrival of the Ninth Crusade, led by the prince who would later be Edward I of England. Edward had landed in Acre on May 9, 1271, where he was soon joined by Bohemond and his cousin King Hugh of Cyprus and Jerusalem.\n\nBaibars therefore accepted Bohemond's offer of a truce in May, abandoned the siege of Tripoli, and instead concentrated his forces in Damas, in anticipation of future battles. Edward made an attempt to coordinate his own actions with the Mongols, but was not successful since the Mongols were busy with internal conflicts, and Edward's own forces were very small and fairly ineffective. He therefore opted to negotiate his own truce with the Mamluks, before returning to England.\n\nThe next major offensive against Tripoli was in 1289 by the Mamluk Sultan Qalawun, who successfully orchestrated the Fall of Tripoli and destruction of the Crusader State. He then made plans to capture the last major Crusader stronghold, Saint-Jean d'Acre, but died in 1290. The Fall of Acre was achieved in 1291 by Qalawun's son, Al-Ashraf Khalil.\n\n"}
{"id": "3536248", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3536248", "title": "So. Central Rain (I'm Sorry)", "text": "So. Central Rain (I'm Sorry)\n\n\"So. Central Rain (I'm Sorry)\" is a song by the American alternative rock band R.E.M. It was released in May 1984 as the first single from the group's second studio album \"Reckoning\". \"So. Central Rain (I'm Sorry)\" became the second R.E.M. single to chart on the \"Billboard\" Hot 100, peaking at number 85.\n\nR.E.M. performed a rough version of the song on the NBC television show \"Late Night with David Letterman\" on October 6, 1983—before the song even had a title—in what was the band's first U.S. network television appearance.\n\nThe video, directed by Howard Libov, was filmed at the Reflection Studio in Charlotte, North Carolina during the recording of \"Reckoning\" there, and first aired in June 1984. It featured the members of the band playing their instruments behind white screens (gobos) in an otherwise empty room, with Michael Stipe singing in the foreground. Stipe refused to lip sync to the song. Guitarist Peter Buck said, \"We played a recording of the track, and the rest of us faked it, but Michael insisted on singing a new vocal to make it more real for him.\"\n\nThe song is also featured in the \"Left of Reckoning\" video shot by James Herbert.\n\nA version of the song was released by Grant-Lee Phillips on his 2006 covers album, \"Nineteeneighties\".\n\nThe song also was covered by Hem on the 2006 album \"No Word from Tom\".\n\nAll songs written by Bill Berry, Peter Buck, Mike Mills, and Michael Stipe unless otherwise indicated.\n\n7\" Single\n\n12\" single\n\nAlbum\n\nNotes:\n\n"}
{"id": "24209098", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24209098", "title": "Thracian warfare", "text": "Thracian warfare\n\nThe history of Thracian warfare spans from the 10th century BC up to the 1st century AD in the region defined by Ancient Greek and Latin historians as Thrace. It concerns the armed conflicts of the Thracian tribes and their kingdoms in the Balkans. Apart from conflicts between Thracians and neighboring nations and tribes, numerous wars were recorded among Thracian tribes.\n\nInstances of Thracian people engaging in armed conflict occur in the Iliad of Homer and in Greek mythology. The Greek Temenids ousted the Thracians from Pieria (later central Macedonia). The Thracians, prominent warriors who became allies of Troy, came from the Aegean coast. In the Odyssey there is only one instance of Thracians, that of Cicones again on the coast, but they are weak.\n\nThe Thracians were a particularly fierce culture in terms of violence and conflict and so they appeared in Greek Mythology as mostly associated with its stories of strife. The god of war Ares was said to have been born in Thrace and was also heavily worshiped there; in contrast to the revulsion of his worship by many other Balkan city states. Homer recounts in the book of Odyssey that an embarrassed Ares retreated among his Thracian followers when his love affair with the goddess Aphrodite was caught and the two were promptly ensnared by Hephaestus.\n\nThracian tribes fought amongst each other and they allied themselves with the Greeks against other Thracian tribes. Those allied with the Greeks were more civilized and they were usually established in settlements along the Thracian coast. The interior tribes were known as savages, retaining their barbarous habits even until the Roman period. Due to the constant conflict, these tribes have been easily conquered by the Egyptian Sesostris, the Teucrians, Mysians, and, finally the Persians under Darius Hystaspis. The tribal wars also kept Thrace from becoming a major regional power due to the lack of a central government. \n\nAt the onset of the Peloponnesian War, the Thracian tribes were united under the rule of Sitalces, king of the Odrysae. It was allied with Athens during the conflict. However, the kingdom was again split into different parts after the death of king Seuthes. It was during this time when Philip of Macedon conquered a large swath of Thrace, absorbing the territory and its tribes into Macedon. \n\nThe \"Odrysian kingdom\" (Ancient Greek, \"Βασιλεία Όδρυσων\") was a union of Thracian tribes that endured between the 5th century BC and the 3rd century BC. The Odrysian state was the first Thracian kingdom that acquired power in the region, by the unification of many Thracian tribes under a single ruler, King Teres 5th century BC. It became involved in wars and military conflicts against the Romans, Greek colonies, the kingdom of Macedon and the Diadochi, the Persian Empire, Paeonians, Dacians, Celts, Scythians and Thracian tribes. Sometimes it was allied with various Ancient Greek tribes or Greek city states. During the Peloponnesian war, Thracians were the allies of Athens. The Thracians fought alongside Athenians and Macedonians against the forces of the Spartans. Greek generals like Iphicrates and Charidemos fought for the Odrysae as well. The Thracians served under Scythian kings in 310 BC. Odrysian military strength was based on intra-tribal elite making the kingdom prone to fragmentation. Although the kingdom was wealthy, a large proportion of its income was in kind and suitable portions had to be paid to the tribal chiefs. The army was mostly fed and paid by plunder. Sitalces was able to raise an army supposedly 150,000 strong for his invasion of Macedonia in 429 BC but these economic and political factors (plus the onset of winter) meant that this army only held together for about six weeks and any Thracian conquests were ephemeral.\n\nThe Sapaeans ruled Thrace after the Odrysians until its incorporation to the Roman Empire as a province. Thrace became a Client state of Rome at 11 BC and was annexed at 46 AD.\nThrace had the potential to muster a huge number of troops though this rarely occurred. By tradition, Thracians honored warriors and, according to Herodotus, despised all other occupations.\nThe Thracians fought as peltasts using javelins and crescent or round wicker shields called \"peltes\". Missile weapons were favored but close combat weaponry was carried by the Thracians as well. These close combat weapons varied from the dreaded rhomphaia to clubs (used to knock the heads off the spears in Xenophon's Anabasis by Thynians), one- and two-sided axes, bows, knives, spears, akinakes and long swords. Thracians shunned armor and greaves and fought as light as possible, favoring mobility above all other traits and had excellent horsemen. The sica was considered their national weapon.\nThe Bithynian Thracians had contributed a number of 6,000 men (60,000 according to Herodotus) in Xerxes I of Persia campaign of 480 BC but in general resisted Persian occupation and turned against Mardonius's army as he retreated. The Triballi frequently used Scythian and Celtic equipment. Thracians decorated their bodies with tattoos like the Illyrians and the Dacians.\n\nThucidides writes of their infantry tactics when attacked by Theban cavalry:\n\"dashing out and closing their ranks according to the tactics of their country\"\nArrian writes of a tactic using wagons.\n\nA Thracian javelinman would wield a crescent wicker shield and a couple of javelins. This troop type was to persist into the classic and Hellenistic era. Organized groups of spearmen or javelin throwers were not used.\n\nIn the 4th century BC, both infantry and cavalry troops started wearing helmets (some of leather) and some peltasts are seen with greaves.\n\nPrincipal weapons in the 4th century BC (as well as earlier) were the spear and short knife.\n\nArmor, when it was available (for the nobility), was at first leather or bronze but iron armour started appearing in the 4th century BC.\n\nThracian cavalry would wear leather armor or no armor and would be armed with javelins, a bow, or a spear. Only royal cavalry would wear armor. Oval shields and peltes (even by heavy cavalry) were later used. Thracian cavalry was numerous. It was also legendary for its combat power so that Philip of Macedon adopted its wedge-shaped formation for the Macedonian cavalry maneuvers.\n\nThe helmet type used mostly was the Chalcidian type helmet (over 60 have been found) and, to a much lesser extent, the Corinthian type helmet (one has been found), Phrygian type helmet, Attic type helmet and Scythian type helmet (an open face helmet) with many hybrid types occurring. No Illyrian type helmet has been found in the east Balkans.\n\nA Thracian footman (3rd century BC - 1st century BC) could wield a knife or sword, Rhomphaia, a helmet, two javelins and a light oval wooden shield (or a heavier iron-rimmed and spined thureos). No Thracian infantry wore greaves until the 4th century BC. Later native and Greek types started being used, the Greek type being rarer. Thracians used mixed Thracian and Greek equipment and armors from different time periods, to the point of wearing armors that ceased to be used elsewhere; this is something they did even in the classic era. Later they adopted Roman armaments.\nThracians were highly sought as mercenaries due to their ferocity in battle, but they were infamous for their love of plunder. Thracian mercenaries played an important role in the affairs between Athenians and Spartans. The Odomantii were described as expensive mercenaries. In one instance in 413 BC, Dii mercenaries were so expensive to pay that after they missed the boat to Sicily the Athenians sent them home. They were hired occasionally by Persians. Croesus had hired many Thracian swordsmen for the Lydian army. They also served in the Republican Roman and Mithridatic armies, as well as the armies of the Diadocii. They provided up to one third of the cavalry in Macedonian armies and up to a fifth of their infantry (usually as levies or allies rather than mercenaries). They later formed one of the most important nationalities in the Roman army, contributing up to 20,000 troops at any one time to auxiliary units during the early empire.\n\nA Thracian chieftain could have access to armor and helmets. One could be equipped with a Chalcidian type helmet, a breastplate (this sort of armor is rarely found outside Crete and only one has been found in Thrace, a bell-type cuirass) with a mitrai (a plate attached to the bottom of the cuirass to protect the abdomen) a wicker pelte, two javelins and a sword. Body armor was restricted to nobles and army commanders. Greek armor was in use in Thrace before the classical age. Nobles would sometimes wear pectorals on their chests as a sign of rank.\nThere was no Thracian navy but there were instances of Thracians turning to piracy. The Greek cities of the coast that paid tribute to the Thracian kings did sometimes provide the Thracian kings with ships.\n\nEven though Thracians attempted to build only one polis, they had forts in hills built as places of refuge. Thracian villages had basic fortifications as Xenophon witnesses in Anabasis. Tacitus in his Annals describes a Roman attack against a hill fort. There were many Thracian hill forts and some were inhabited. Other fortified Thracian towns existed at places like Hellis and Kabyle.\n\nScythians akinakes, Scythian saddles and horse archer equipment to the Scythian type helmet also called Kuban type. It was an open-face bronze helmet that stopped halfway (like a skullcap) and had leather flaps with sewn bronze plates that protected the back part of the head including the nape and the sides of the face.The Scythian cavalry wedge had been adopted by the Thracian cavalry. Despite the power of the Odrysians except during the reigns of Teres and Sitalkes they were still weaker than the Scythians militarily. Scale armor was adopted as well as a composite metal cuirass. The most northern Thracian tribe, the Getai, were so similar to the Scythians that they were often confused with them. Odrysian Thracian kings made treaties and royal marriages as equals with the Scythians. The royal name Spartokos (Spartacus) is shared between some Thracian royalty and some Crimean Skythian kings.\n\nThracian warfare was affected by Celts in a variety of ways like the adoption of certain long swords though this must not have been universal among them. The Triballi had adopted Celtic equipment. Another weapon, the sica was called \"Thracian sword\" (Ancient Greek,\"Θρακικον ξίφος\") though it did not originate from there, despite its popular usage (it was considered their national weapon). The sword's utmost origin was the Hallstatt culture and the Thracians may have adopted or inherited it.\n\nGreece affected Thracian warfare early on with the xiphos and other swords, Greek type greaves, breastplates, a variety of helmets and other equipment. During the Hellenistic period more Greek armaments were adopted. Seuthes had adopted a Greek tactic for a night march (though night marches and attacks were a favourite Thracian tactic). Thracian kings were the first to be Hellenized.\n\nThracians of the Roman client states used Roman equipment. From 11 BC onwards Thracians would start resembling Roman legionaries. Thracians in Moesia, Dacia and the North were Romanized.\nThracians were regarded as warlike, ferocious, and savagely bloodthirsty. Thracians were seen as \"Barbarians\" by other peoples, namely the Greeks and the Romans. Plato in his \"Republic\" considers them, along with the Scythians, extravagant and high spirited; and in his \"Laws\" considers them a war-like nation, grouping them with Celts, Persians, Scythians, Iberians and Carthaginians. Polybius wrote of Cotys' sober and gentle character being unlike that of most Thracians. Tacitus in his \"Annals\" writes of them being wild, savage and impatient, disobedient even to their own kings. Polyaenus and Strabo write how the Thracians broke their pacts of truce with trickery. The Thracians struck their weapons against each other before battle and engaged in night attacks. Diegylis was considered one of the most bloothirsty chieftains by Diodorus Siculus. An Athenian club for lawless youths was named after the Triballi. The Dii were responsible for the worst atrocities of the Peloponnesian war killing every living thing, including children and dogs, in Tanagra and Mycalessos. Thracians would impale Roman heads on their spears and Rhomphaias such as in the Kallinikos skirmish in 171 BC. Herodotus writes that \"they sell their children and let their wives commerce with whatever men they please\".\nThis is a list of battles or conflicts that Thracians had a leading or crucial role in, usually as mercenaries.\n\n"}
{"id": "7052407", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7052407", "title": "Trippin' on a Hole in a Paper Heart", "text": "Trippin' on a Hole in a Paper Heart\n\n\"Trippin' on a Hole in a Paper Heart\" is a song by American rock band Stone Temple Pilots, featured on their third album, \"Tiny Music... Songs from the Vatican Gift Shop\". An alternative rock tune, it was recorded in 1995 and released as a single the following year. The track is also on the greatest hits album, \"Thank You\".\n\n\nThe core music was written by drummer Eric Kretz, while the lyrics were written by Scott Weiland. Although many fans have different interpretations of the lyrics, Weiland directly stated in a radio interview that the very ambiguous and mysterious lyrics to the song actually alluded to a \"very bad experience dropping acid.\" In his autobiography \"Not Dead and Not For Sale\", he adds that it \"reflects my hunger for redemption\"\n\nThe band has had six songs reach the number one position on the \"Billboard\" Hot Mainstream Rock Tracks chart, with \"Trippin' on a Hole in a Paper Heart\" being the last of these to reach the top. In 1997, the song received a nomination for Best Hard Rock Performance at the Grammy Awards.\n\n"}
{"id": "24480417", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24480417", "title": "Tsushima incident", "text": "Tsushima incident\n\nThe Tsushima incident occurred in 1861 when the Russians attempted to establish a year-round anchorage on the coast of the island of Tsushima, a Japanese territory located between Kyushu and Korea.\n\nOn 13 March 1861, the Russian corvette \"Posadnik\" (Посадник, 1856), captained by Nicolai Birilev, arrived in Tsushima island in the inlet of Ozaki, the captain demanding landing rights. This event triggered fear in the Japanese Shogunate, as the Russians had already attempted to breach Japan's isolation policy in the northern island of Hokkaido with the events involving Adam Laxman in 1792, the burning of villages there in 1806, and the events leading to the arrest of Vasilii Golovnin in 1811. At that time, only a few Japanese ports were open to foreign ships (Hakodate, Nagasaki, Yokohama), and Tsushima was clearly not one of them, thus suggesting unfriendly intentions on the part of the Russians. If taken over by the Russians, Tsushima could have become an effective base for further aggression. Japan received British help to support its policy. As tension rose, a second Russian ship arrived, and requests were made by the Russians to build a landing base and to receive supplies.\n\nOn 13 May 1861, the Russians sent a launch to explore the eastern coast of the island, despite the presence of two Saga Domain warships, \"Kankō Maru\" and \"Denryū Maru\", as well as one British warship. On May 21, 1861, a clash took place between the Russian sailors of a launch and a group of samurai and farmers, in which one farmer was killed and one samurai, who soon committed suicide, was captured by the Russians. In mid-July, Hakodate bugyō Muragaki Norimasa went directly to the Russian Consulate in Hakodate, demanding the departure of the ship to the Russian Consul Goshkevitch.\n\nAs this strategy did not work, the Japanese asked the British to intervene, as they also had an interest in preventing the Russians from extending their influence in Asia. Admiral Hope arrived in Tsushima with two warships on 28 August, and on 19 September 1861 \"Posadnik\" finally had to leave Tsushima.\n\nThe late 1850s saw a period of Russian expansion into the Sea of Japan, with the setting up a post in the estuary of the Amur in 1850, the acquisition of the present Primorsky Krai by the Treaty of Aigun (1858) and the Convention of Peking (1860), and the establishment of Vladivostok in 1860.\n\nIn 1858 the Imperial Russian Navy leased a strip of Nagasaki Bay coastline across the village of Inasa as a winter anchorage for the Chinese Flotilla's emerging Pacific Fleet (all domestic anchorages froze up in winter). Flotilla commander Admiral Ivan Likhachev realized the dangers of basing the fleet in a foreign port, and settled on establishing a permanent base in Tsushima. He was aware that the British had attempted to set their flag there in 1859 and had conducted hydrographic surveys around the island in 1855. In 1860 he requested a go-ahead from the government in Saint Petersburg; the cautious foreign minister, Alexander Gorchakov, ruled out any incursions against British interests, while General Admiral Konstantin Nikolayevich suggested making a private deal with the head of Tsushima-Fuchū Domain, as long as it did not disturb \"the West\". In case of failure the Russian authorities would deny all knowledge of the expedition.\n\nIn line with Likhachev's will and Konstantin's advice \"Posadnik\" left Hakodate February 20, 1861 and on March 1 reached the village of Osaki on the western coast of Asō Bay (Tatamura Bay in historical reports). Sō Yoshiyori, head of Sō clan, immediately informed the Bakufu government, however, the cautious cabinet of Andō Nobumasa delayed their response and Yoshiyori had to act on his own. Birilev, captain of \"Posadnik\", made personal contact with Sō, exchanged courtesy gifts, and secured Yoshiyori's consent to survey the Imosaki Bay; \"Posadnik\" arrived there on April 2. The crew disembarked, raised the Russian flag, and began building temporary housing, a landing jetty and prepared to refit the ship which needed repairs to propeller and stern tube. Japanese officials tacitly agreed with de facto establishing a naval base and even assigned a team of fifteen local carpenters to help the Russians; the latter rewarded Sō with a gift of small naval cannons. Likhachev inspected the bay twice, March 27 on board \"Oprichnik\" and April 16 on board \"Svetlana\" and recorded friendly behaviour of the Japanese, however, in April the situation irreversibly changed.\n\nOn April 12, 1861 when the Russians disembarked from their launches, a group of local peasants led by one Matsumura Yasugorō attempted to bar entrance and drive the Russians back. In the ensuing clash Yasugorō was killed, two Japanese peasants taken hostage, the rest fled; no Russian fatalities were recorded. Sō appeased the population, ordering them to wait for a Bakufu pronouncement, and did not take any action. Russian sources say nothing about presence of Japanese or British warship in the area.\n\n \nOguri Tadamasa, the messenger of Bakufu, arrived in Tsushima in May and politely told Birilev to leave; Birilev explained that he would not move unless his own Admiral ordered him to retreat. After 13 days of waiting in vain Oguri left; he left a letter allowing contacts between Birilev and local administration without prejudices against further radical action by the Japanese. Birilev used the permit to the full, and persuaded the council of Japanese officials to issue a charter agreeing with Russian naval presence in Tsushima. Tsushima elders granted the coastline between Hiroura and Imosaki exclusively to the Russians and agreed to bar entrance to any other foreign nation. The charter, however, clearly said that all these concessions depended on good will of the central government. The latter vehemently opposed the deal and called the British envoy Rutherford Alcock for help. Alcock immediately dispatched two ships under command of Vice Admiral James Hope.\n\nLikhachev, as instructed by Konstantin, ordered a general retreat and sent the message to Tsushima with the \"Oprichnik\". Birilev and \"Posadnik\" left Tsushima on September 7, 1861, while \"Oprichnik\" and \"Abrek\" stayed in the harbor; both left at the end of September 1861. Likhachev later said that the failure had its upside: \"We did not allow the British conquest of the islands\", an opinion indirectly supported by contemporary personal meetings between Gorchakov and ambassador Francis Napier; the latter, however, never gave a definite answer about British plans in Tsushima. Likhachev was demoted from his command and tendered a voluntary resignation, which was rejected; the admiral was given command of a Baltic Fleet squadron. The Russian Navy stayed at Nagasaki until the completion of the Port Arthur base in China.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6838582", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6838582", "title": "United Nations Conference on the Human Environment", "text": "United Nations Conference on the Human Environment\n\nThe United Nations Conference on the Human Environment was held in Stockholm, Sweden from June 5–16 in 1972.\n\nWhen the United Nations General Assembly decided to convene the 1972 Stockholm Conference, at the initiative of the Government of Sweden to host it, UN Secretary-General U Thant invited Maurice Strong to lead it as Secretary-General of the Conference, as the Canadian diplomat (under Pierre Trudeau) had initiated and already worked for over two years on the project.\n\nSweden first suggested to the United Nations Economic and Social Council ECOSOC in 1968 the idea of having a UN conference to focus on human interactions with the environment. ECOSOC passed resolution 1346 supporting the idea. General Assembly Resolution 2398 in 1969 decided to convene a conference in 1972 and mandated a set of reports from the UN secretary-general suggesting that the conference focus on \"stimulating and providing guidelines for action by national government and international organizations\" facing environmental issues. Preparations for the conference were extensive, lasting 4 years, including 115 governments, and costing over $30,000,000.\n\nThe Soviet Union and other Warsaw Pact nations boycotted the conference due to the lack of inclusion of East Germany, which was not allowed to participate as it was not a full member of the UN.\n\nAt the conference itself, divisions between developed and developing countries began to emerge. The Chinese delegation proved hostile to the United States at the conference, issuing a 17 point memorandum condemning United States policies in Indochina, as well as around the world. This stance emboldened other developing countries, which made up 70 of the 122 countries attending. Multiple countries including Pakistan, Peru, and Chile issued statements that were anti-colonial in nature, further worrying the United States delegation. So harsh was the criticism that Rogers Morton, at that time secretary of the interior, remarked \"I wish the Russians were here\", to divert the attention of the Chinese criticisms.\n\nThe meeting agreed upon a Declaration containing 26 principles concerning the environment and development; an Action Plan with 109 recommendations, and a Resolution.\n\nPrinciples of the Stockholm Declaration:\n\nOne of the seminal issues that emerged from the conference is the recognition for poverty alleviation for protecting the environment. The Indian Prime Minister Indira Gandhi in her seminal speech in the conference brought forward the connection between ecological management and poverty alleviation.\n\nSome argue that this conference, and more importantly the scientific conferences preceding it, had a real impact on the environmental policies of the European Community (that later became the European Union). For example, in 1973, the EU created the Environmental and Consumer Protection Directorate, and composed the first Environmental Action Program. Such increased interest and research collaboration arguably paved the way for further understanding of global warming, which has led to such agreements as the Kyoto Protocol and the Paris Agreement, and has given a foundation of modern environmentalism.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "28640574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28640574", "title": "VMworld", "text": "VMworld\n\nVMworld is a global conference for virtualization and cloud computing, hosted by VMware. It is the largest virtualization-specific event. It has been held in San Diego, California in 2004; Las Vegas, Nevada in 2005, 2008, 2011, 2016, 2017, and 2018; Los Angeles, California in 2006; and San Francisco, California in 2007, 2009, 2010, 2012, 2013, 2014 and 2015.\n\nThere is also an annual VMworld conference held in Europe, usually in October following the US conference.\n\nThe conference normally lasts between 3 and 5 days, and consists of breakout sessions, panels, exhibit hall, and hands-on labs. The first conference was held in the Fall of 2004, and attracted more than 1600 attendees and over the years has attracted over 20,000 attendees annually.\n\nSponsors and partners include Cisco, NetApp, Intel, HPE, Dell, Hitachi, IBM, Sandisk, and Samsung.\n\n"}
{"id": "17132774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17132774", "title": "Vilanova International World Music Festival", "text": "Vilanova International World Music Festival\n\nVilanova International World Music Festival is a multicultural festival of music, workshops and conferences, that is taking place every year along the third weekend of July, in Vilanova i la Geltrú, in Catalonia, Spain, since 1981. It is the oldest world music festival in Catalonia and also in Spain having been far ahead of its time. The festival lasts for three days and the programme covers from 11 o’clock in the morning until night. There are more than thirty activities thought up for children and adults. Most of performances in this event are free.\n\nThe festival is also characterized by the good atmosphere, the integration of all kind of audiences, locals from Vilanova i la Geltrú and also tourists.\n\nThe festival is organized by Vilanova i la Geltrú Council, with Catalan national government support.\n\nThis festival belongs to the most selected group of world music festivals in Spain: Etnosur (Alcalá la Real, Jaén, Andalucía), Getxo (Basque Country), La Mar de Músicas (Cartagena, Murcia), Ortigueira (Galicia), and Pirineos Sur (Aragón). In Catalonia another important event is Fira Mediterrania in Manresa, the most important folk market in Mediterranean area.\n\nA long list of artists -more than 300- from the Catalan Countries and all over the world -from more than sixty different countries- has paid a visit to the Festival throughout its history. Some of the names on the roll have become internationally well-known and famous artists.\n\nIn 2008 the Festival incorporates for the first time a section addressed to children, baptized like \"Small Musicians\", and another known as \"Vermut Meetings\", in which the artists explain to the public their projects.\n\nIn 2010 the Festival celebrated its 30th anniversary. Television of Catalonia has produced a special program devoted to the thirty years of the festival, through the program Rodasons.\n\nAlso in 2010 the festival creates the network Festivals with Charm, together with the festival Altaveu in Sant Boi de Llobregat, and Acústica in Figueres.\n\nIn the summer of 2010 issue, Interfolk magazine has said about the Vilanova festival: \"one of most important appointments of the musical summer in Spain. FiMPT was born in full effervescence of the process of recovery of traditional elements and festivities, and conceived like an open platform to every type of traditional music, coming from the country and internationally, to announce the possibilities of expression and of definition of this type of music. Three decades after its creation, it has consolidated fully and has accredited as one of the most important examples in Europe in its style and one of the most complete in its genre\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17370947", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17370947", "title": "Zlatno Slavejče", "text": "Zlatno Slavejče\n\nZlatno Slavejče (; ) is the oldest children's festival in the Republic of Macedonia. Many children who have performed at the festival have gone on to become stars.\n"}
