{"id": "30794474", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30794474", "title": "CWC Group", "text": "CWC Group\n\nCWC Group Limited is an energy and infrastructure conference, exhibition and training company that was established in 1997 by Tim Clark, Alirio Parra and Lisa Shelton.\n\nCWC Group Limited provides international business executives with Government summits, International industry conferences, Exhibitions, Private retreats, Roadshows, Bespoke consultancy, Recruitment Fairs, Recruitment Process Outsourcing, Public training courses and In-house training courses.\n\nIn 2007 and 2011, CWC Group Limited won the Queen's Award For Enterprise – International Trade\n\n"}
{"id": "18419704", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18419704", "title": "Calliope: Pittsburgh Folk Music Society", "text": "Calliope: Pittsburgh Folk Music Society\n\nCalliope: Pittsburgh Folk Music Society is an organization that promotes folk music and folk dance in the Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, area. The Society started in the late 1960s, when performances were often held in George Balderose's house. As time went on, the Society grew and eventually began renting out other performance venues for its shows. Since 1976, Calliope has been a nonprofit educational and presenting organization that promotes and preserves traditional and contemporary folk music and its allied arts. Today, Calliope sponsors various musical performances, a school of music, and now .\n\nCalliope's yearly concert series features performances by many well-known musicians in various musical genres, and these performances are typically held in the Carnegie Lecture Hall, which is located in the back of the Carnegie Museum of Natural History complex in the Oakland neighborhood of Pittsburgh. Past Calliope events have included performances by the following musicians: Jean Ritchie, Odetta, Doc Watson, the Del McCoury Band, David Bromberg, Tom Rush, Richard Thompson, Mike Seeger, The New Lost City Ramblers, John McCutcheon, Robin and Linda Williams, Roger McGuinn, Sam Bush Band, The Roches, Gillian Welch, Guy Clark, Slaid Cleaves, Chris Smither, Tommy Emmanuel, Andy M. Stewart, David Holt, Lúnasa, Alvin Youngblood Hart, Saffire - The Uppity Blues Women, Ladysmith Black Mambazo, The Wailin' Jennys, Alejandro Escovedo, The Greencards, Rani Arbo and Daisy Mayhem, and many others.\n\n"}
{"id": "14186722", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14186722", "title": "China Girls Mathematical Olympiad", "text": "China Girls Mathematical Olympiad\n\nThe China Girls Mathematical Olympiad (CGMO) is a math competition with a proof-based format similar to the International Mathematical Olympiad. It was originally organized in 2002 for teams of girls representing different regions within China. Later, the Chinese organizers decided to invite other nations to send teams of girls from their countries. Russia has participated at least since 2004. The United States participated in 2007-2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30257665", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30257665", "title": "Clarisse Leite", "text": "Clarisse Leite\n\nClarisse Leite (Dias Batista) (b. 11 January 1917. d. 2003) was a Brazilian composer, pianist and music educator. She was born in São Paulo and studied in São Paulo and France. After completing her studies, she worked as a professor of music at Academia Internacional, Rio de Janeiro.\n\nHer sons Cláudio César Dias Baptista, Arnaldo Dias Baptista and Sérgio Dias Baptista became rock musicians.\n\nLeite composed for orchestra, chamber, piano and vocal performance. She was known for compositions based on Brazilian folklore. Selected works include:\n\nHer works have been recorded and issued on CD, including:\n"}
{"id": "19587345", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19587345", "title": "Continental education system", "text": "Continental education system\n\nThe German education system or continental education system is a higher education model, often contrasted with the Anglo-Saxon education system and the Scandinavian education system. It was the standard tertiary education model for most of the countries of Continental Europe before the implementation of the Anglo-Saxon model there due to the Bologna Process.\n\nA distinction exists between vocational education (Fachhochschule; i.e.: school of applied sciences) and academic higher education (at university). This is also called dual education system.\n\nIn contrast to the Anglo-Saxon model with common lower and higher academic degree for all subjects (Bachelor degree and Master's degree, respectively), in the German model the degrees are \"Diplom\" for the more practical subjects such as i.e. engineering, but also economics and business and (in Germany and Austria) the \"Magister Artium\" for the more theoretical subjects, such as social sciences or humanities. \n\n"}
{"id": "21236297", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21236297", "title": "Curriculum for Excellence", "text": "Curriculum for Excellence\n\nCurriculum for Excellence is the national curriculum for Scottish schools for learners from the ages 3-15. \n\nIt was developed out of a 2002 consultation exercise – the 'National Debate on Education' – undertaken by the-then Scottish Executive on the state of school education. In response to the National Debate, Ministers established a Curriculum Review Group in November 2003 to identify the purposes of education for the 3-18 age range and to determine key principles to be applied in a redesign the curriculum. Its work resulted in the publication in November 2004 of the document \"A Curriculum for Excellence\". This document identified four key purposes of education; those that enable young people to become, \"successful learners, confident individuals, responsible citizens and effective contributors.\"\n\nThe Curriculum for Excellence was implemented in schools in 2010−11.\nIts implementation is overseen by Education Scotland.\n\nIn Scotland, councils and schools both have some responsibility for what is taught in schools and they must also take national guidelines and advice into account.\n\nA review was undertaken by the OECD, having been commissioned by the Scottish Government to look at the broad general education.\n\nNew qualifications were set out in 2014 by the Scottish Qualifications Authority to meet with the Curriculum for Excellence. The new qualifications are Access 1, Access 2, National 3, National 4, National 5, Higher and Advanced Higher which replaced the former Standard Grade.\n\nBefore its introduction, many within the Scottish teaching profession, including the teachers' trade union The Educational Institute of Scotland (EIS) and its members, believed that the Curriculum for Excellence was vague, in particular regarding its supposed 'outcomes and experiences'. There existed a fear that this imprecision would result in a lack of clarity in what was expected of teachers in the classroom and in the assessment of pupils' progress and attainment. \nAt present (January 2013), the Curriculum is in the second school term of its first year of operation, and concerns remain about assessments. \n\nThe original concerns led one of the most educationally successful Scottish local authorities, East Renfrewshire, to delay implementation of the secondary school phase of the new curriculum by one year. Some Scottish independent schools, including St Aloysius' College, in Glasgow, chose to do likewise. \nSt George's School for Girls, an independent school in Edinburgh, decided not to adopt the Curriculum for Excellence and offered the General Certificate of Secondary Education for pupils entering their fourth year (English Year 10) classes from 2013 onwards.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29077887", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29077887", "title": "D2L", "text": "D2L\n\nD2L, often referred to as Desire2Learn, is a global cloud software company with offices in the United States, Canada, Singapore, Australia, Europe, and Brazil. It is the developer of the Brightspace learning management system which cloud-based software used by schools, higher education, and businesses for online and blended classroom learning. D2L is also the developer of Open Courses a Massive Open Online Course platform.\n\nD2L was founded in 1999 by President and CEO John Baker M.S.C. in his third year of Systems Design Engineering at the University of Waterloo. Today the company has over 750 employees.\n\nIn 2004, D2L first introduced support for Competency Based Education, and launched an integrated ePortfolio product to allow learners to document their own learning.\n\nD2L embraced open standards including SCORM, IMS LTI, IMS Course Packaging, IMS Common Cartridge and IMS Caliper.\n\nIn 2011, D2L acquired Captual Technologies Inc. and the technology is now known as Brightspace Capture.\n\nIn 2012, D2L raised $80 million in financing. In the same year, D2L became the recipient of Platinum Learning Impact Award in the event hosted by IMS Global.\n\nIn 2013, D2L was recognized by the National Federation of the Blind for its leadership in Accessibility with the Dr. \"Jacob Bolotin Award\". In the same year, D2L acquired Wiggio, and Knowillage Systems Inc., the creator of the adaptive learning engine called LeaP.\n\nIn 2014, D2L raised an $85 million series B financing round. In the same year, D2L acquired the Achievement Standards Network (ASN) to be an open API and open data system for curriculum standards globally.\n\nIn 2016, D2L was the first and only LMS to partner with the National Federation of the Blind's Strategic Nonvisual Access Partner program to ensure learning systems are fully accessible.\n\nLaunched in beta in 2016 and made generally available in early 2017, D2L became the first (academic) LMS to provide full capability on any mobile device using responsive web design as part of its Daylight User Experience.\n\nIn 2006, D2L and Blackboard were involved in a legal dispute over issues related to US Patent 6988138. D2L won the patent case on appeal at the Federal Circuit, and invalidated the patent at the USPTO. In December 2009, the companies issued a joint press release indicating that legal proceedings had ended with both companies.\n\nD2L's first Learning Environment clients included University of Guelph, VirtualHighSchool, and the University of Waterloo. The technology is now used by over 1200 schools, colleges, universities, and businesses around the world.\n\nBrightspace was built using micro-services and operates as a software as a service. It incorporates Web Components and Google Polymer, HTML5, and responsive web design to provide a modern user interface that can work on any mobile device.\n\nBrightspace combines a Learning Environment, ePortfolio, Learning Repository, Video Recorder, Virtual Classroom, eTextbook platform called Binder, and Mobile apps, in one cloud-based platform.\n\nEngagement Plus combines a cloud-based Lecture Capture system, interactive components for engaging course design, and a Course Catelog/Registration System.\n\nPerformance Plus is a bundle of learning analytics to help automate tasks and identify risks. An adaptive learning engine personalizes the content for each learner. Learning Analytics and Intelligent Agents provide early intervention to help learners. And a set of data that can be used to make improvements based upon analysis.\n\nIn 2016, Fast Company recognized D2L as a leader in Data Science.\n\nIn 2008, D2L entered the massive open online course MOOC market to support MOOC pioneers Stephen Downes and George Siemens. D2L then launched Open Courses to facilitate experimentation with new pedagogy and develop new ways to reach global learners.\n\nThe University of Tasmania used D2L's MOOC platform to support tens of thousands of learners with >70% of those students starting the courses finishing, bucking the trend of low completion rates in large MOOCs.\n\nD2L's services include: cloud-based learning system, end-user help desk support, technical account management, technical data management, advisory consulting, program management, training, course development, customization, and accessibility design support.\n\n"}
{"id": "15312516", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15312516", "title": "Ecopedagogy", "text": "Ecopedagogy\n\nThe ecopedagogy movement is an outgrowth of the theory and practice of critical pedagogy, a body of educational praxis influenced by the philosopher and educator Paulo Freire. Ecopedagogy's mission is to develop a robust appreciation for the collective potentials of humanity and to foster social justice throughout the world. It does so as part of a future-oriented, ecological and political vision that radically opposes the globalization of ideologies such as neoliberalism and imperialism, while also attempting to foment forms of critical ecoliteracy.\n\nOne of ecopedagogy's goals is the realization of culturally relevant forms of knowledge grounded in normative concepts such as sustainability, planetarity (i.e. identifying as an earthling) and biophilia (i.e. love of all life).\n\nThe ecopedagogy movement began in a Latin American educational context, growing out of discussions at the second Earth Summit, held in Rio de Janeiro, Brazil in 1992. Educators desired to present a theory and discourse about the interrelationship between society and the environment, a statement would eventually be ratified as the Earth Charter in 2000. In 1999 the First International Symposium on the Earth Charter in the Perspective of Education was held by the Instituto Paulo Freire, Brasil directed by Moacir Gadotti and in collaboration with the Earth Council and UNESCO. This was soon followed by the First International Forum on Ecopedagogy. As a result of these conferences, the Ecopedagogy Charter was also formed, launching the spread of ecopedagogy seminars and programs around the world. \n\nEcopedagogy's primary goal is to create a \"planetary consciousness\" through revolutionary teaching and learning. The movement aims to create educational programs that interrogate the intersection of social, political, economic and environmental systems. As an outgrowth of critical pedagogy, ecopedagogy critiques environmental education and education for sustainable development as vain attempts by mainstream forms of pedagogy seeking to appear relevant regarding current issues of environmental degradation. It is critical of mainstream representations of nature that are potentially informed by racist, sexist, and classist values, and wary of the tendency of \"greenwashing\" of environmental terminology. \n\nWhile members of the ecopedagogy movement recognize that environmental education can accomplish some positive change, they question the ways in which environmental education (especially within global north) is often reduced to forms of experiential pedagogy and outdoor education without questioning the mainstream experience of nature as pristine wilderness. Ecopedagogy points out that environmental education is often tethered to state and corporate-sponsored science and social studies standards or fails to articulate the political necessity for widespread understanding of the unsustainable nature of modern lifestyles. However, ecopedagogy has tried to utilize the ongoing United Nations Decade of Educational for Sustainable Development (2005–2015) to make strategic interventions on behalf of the oppressed, using it as an opportunity to unpack and clarify the concept of sustainable development.\n\nEcopedagogy scholar Richard Kahn describes the three main goals of the ecopedagogy movement to be:\n\n\nAngela Antunes and Moacir Gadotti (2005) write:\"Ecopedagogy is not just another pedagogy among many other pedagogies. It not only has meaning as an alternative project concerned with nature preservation (Natural Ecology) and the impact made by human societies on the natural environment (Social Ecology), but also as a new model for sustainable civilization from the ecological point of view (Integral Ecology), which implies making changes on economic, social, and cultural structures.\"According to social movement theorists Ron Ayerman and Andrew Jamison, there are three broad dimensions of environmentally related movements: cosmological, technological, and organizational. In ecopedagogy, these dimensions are outlined by Richard Kahn (2010) as the following:\n\n\nEcopedagogy is not the collection of theories or practices developed by any particular set of individuals. Rather, akin to the World Social Forum and other related forms of contemporary popular education strategies, it is a worldwide association of critical educators, theorists, non-governmental and governmental organizations, grassroots activists and concerned citizens who engage in ongoing dialogue and political action. This process attempts to develop ecopedagogical praxis in relation to the needs of particular places, groups and time periods.\n\nThe earliest use of the term \"ecopedagogy\" may have been by de Haan (1984) in a now little known German text . Shortly thereafter, in the first known English use of the term, Gronemeyer (1987) described ecopedagogy as the merging of environmentalist politics and adult education. Ecopedagogy has also been discussed by Ahlberg (1998) ; Jardine (2000) ; Petrina (2000) ; Yang & Hung (2004) ; and Payne (2005) . The work of Lummis (2002) shares some sympathies, such as a critical theory approach.\n\nIronically, at the same time it was coined by Freire's friend-cum-critic Ivan Illich (1988) to describe an educational process in which educators and educands become inscribed in abstract pedagogical systems, resulting in pedagogy as an end and not a means. As used by Illich, ecopedagogy is represented by forms of education that seek the total administration of life through mandatory pedagogical experiences of systemization. As such, he believed that the movements for lifelong education and the creation of global classrooms (Illich & Verne, 1981) by bureaucratic educational institutions exemplified such approaches. However, he was also critical of popular environmentalist pedagogy attempting to mobilize people's sentiments for solutions to problems such as global warming, hunger, and rainforest destruction. Illich's point was that such an ecopedagogy works on a problems/solutions axis that implies a global managerialism that is abhorrent to truly sustainable living in the world. This is a different idea from the way the term and concept is being defined and utilized in critical education circles today, though it is potentially of great importance for the future development of the ecopedagogy movement on the whole.\n\nPaulo Freire was himself at work on a book of ecopedagogy upon his death in 1997, parts of which are included in his posthumous \"Pedagogy of Indignation\" (2004). Other influential books include: Francisco Gutierrez and Cruz Prado's \"Ecopedagogy and Planetary Citizenship\" (1999), Moacir Gadotti's \"Pedagogy of the Earth\" (2000), and Richard Kahn's \"Critical Pedagogy, Ecoliteracy, and Planetary Crisis: The Ecopedagogy Movement\". \n\nBoth supporters and critics of ecopedagogy agree that historically, critical educators in the West have been largely unsuccessful at addressing environmental issues in their classrooms. However, much disagreement still exists between critics and supporters of ecopedagogy on the ethics, theoretical approach, and methodology of this pedagogical style.\n\nOne critic, C.A. Bowers, argues that if ecopedagogy (and the larger critical pedagogy of Freire and Gadotti) were universally adopted, it would contribute to the hegemonic spread of Western culture and systems, thereby choking out non-Western ways of thinking, viewing, and interacting with the human and built environments. Bowers further argues that adoption of Freirean ecopedagogy would hasten the existence of a world monoculture and would fail to address the systemic roots of the current ecological crisis and fail to protect the commons from further exploitation. In this view, ecopedagogy is akin to an educational Trojan horse that is little more than a vehicle for transmitting Western culture and domination. \n\nModerate critics of ecopedagogy argue that the critical lens of ecopedagogy can be useful, but that its adherents must be actively critical of ecopedagogy itself. They argue that without a constant focus on understanding and fostering diversity in thought, culture, and ecosystem, ecopedagogy is meaningless and could be counter-productive to its aims. Ecopedagogy (and critical pedagogy) has also been heavily criticized for not being critical of the categories that underlie its work. Here, critics argue that in valuing individualism, ecopedagogy fails to attend to traditional eco-centered cultures' already deep connection to the non-human world. Moreover, some scholars from the eco- and critical pedagogical traditions fail to recognize how the \"primary categories in classical liberal thought may operate in the discourse of critical pedagogy\".\n\nEcopedagogy emphasizes the necessity of praxis alongside theory. Besides the specific ecopedagogy degree programs and Paulo Freire Institutes, there are many instances of ecological education that not only teach people the critical thinking of ecopedagogy but also engage them in learning through action. For example, a study conducted with 10-year-old children in West Scotland concluded that interactive dramatic education was successful in engaging students in ecological, social, and political dimensions of global problems such as solid waste and deforestation. The dramatic exercises required to make a decision or take a stance, thus strengthening their understanding and conviction of the issues. And ecopedagogy is not limited to formal students; in Turkey, for example, participatory action research showed that an outdoor community-based ecopedagogy program for university professors was successful in the \"promotion of public participation, the engagement of students, teacher and parents in local environmental issues, and the development of social capital to achieve environmental sustainability. By situating local knowledge within critical pedagogy and social activism, these projects can help universities to bridge the gap between academia and society.\"\n\nGreta Gaard outlines the necessity for children's environmental literature to encompass the following core aspects of ecopedagogy:\n\n\nThe question of technology had become increasingly pertinent. While the production and consumption of technology largely has a negative effect on the environment and certain aspects of society-environment relations, technology still provides certain new avenues in ecopedagogy. For example, more people have access to information and collaboration through the internet and thus can engage in informal ecological education faster and in wider spheres. Similarly, community projects to install solar panels or wind turbines or simple technology that help farms to transition to agroecology are examples of the uses of technology in ecopedagogy. \n\n"}
{"id": "51309479", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51309479", "title": "Education Consolidation and Improvement Act", "text": "Education Consolidation and Improvement Act\n\nThe 1981 Education Consolidation and Improvement Act (ECIA) reauthorized the Elementary and Secondary Education Act (ESEA), significantly deregulating education in the United States and shifting a number of responsibilities back to the state level. As part of the Reagan administration’s Omnibus Reconciliation Act of 1981, this act curtailed federal intervention and funding for domestic social causes while expanding the role of state and local government in administering education. This deregulation is symbolized by the reduced size of Title I, which was reduced from 75 pages to just 14.\n\nAccording to the National School Boards Association, ECIA said little of classroom instruction and provided little incentives to experiment or innovate their practice. Part of the problem was that EICA was passed very quickly and its development was based on little legislative history. By 1983, the influential A Nation at Risk report moved the debate around ECIA away from fiscal compliance and toward program excellence school improvement, and student achievement. The subsequent Hawkins-Stafford Elementary and Secondary School Improvement Act of 1988 had this missing emphasis, by formally encouraging “program improvement” from the states.\n\nFederal funding for education was cut by over $1 billion. Title I, which was renamed Chapter I under ECIA, allocated $3.034 billion in FY 1982 from the federal government’s budget to support education. Most of these funds were distributed via formula grants to local education agencies; state educational agencies only received a small amount of funding. Chapter II funds amounted to $456 million in FY 1982 and were paid out to state education agencies depending on their school-age populations. 80 percent of Chapter II funds were then distributed to local educational agencies on the basis of three major areas: basic skills development, educational improvement and support services, and special projects. The remaining 20 percent of Chapter II funds were allocated by the state to cover expenditures related to curriculum development, training, planning, technical assistance, administration, monitoring, and enforcement activities. Finally, Chapter III specified the Secretary of Education’s power to issue regulations.\n"}
{"id": "18112819", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18112819", "title": "Education in Montserrat", "text": "Education in Montserrat\n\nEducation in Montserrat is compulsory for children between the ages of 5 and 14, and free up to the age of 17. The Government of Montserrat developed an Education in the Country Policy Plan for 1998–2002 in conjunction with the United Kingdom. Under this plan, the government is supporting initiatives in the areas of curriculum development, student assessment and evaluation, professional development for teachers, post-secondary education expansion, and educational infrastructure and information technology.\n\nThe educational system is similar to that of England. In 1990 all primary school-aged residents were enrolled in school.\n\nMethodists created two schools, one each in Plymouth and Cavalla Hill. The Sturges family founded the Olveston School.\n\nGovernment daycares include Lookout Daycare, St. John's Daycare, and Salem Daycare. Government nurseries include Brades Nursery, Lookout Nursery, and Salem Nursery. Aunt Madge Child Care, a private institution, has nursery and daycare services. Lookout Nursery opened in 2001, Lookout Daycare opened in 2002, and Salem Nursery opened in 2005. St. John's Nursery closed in 2001.\n\nThere are two government primary schools with Kindergarten and grades 1-6:\n\nThere are two private primary schools with Kindergarten and grades 1-6:\n\nThee is also a Special Needs Unit primary school which opened in 2003.\n\nThe only secondary school (pre-16 years of age) on the island is the Montserrat Secondary School (MSS), a government-operated school in Salem. Montserrat Community College (MCC) is a community college (post-16 and tertiary) in Salem. MCC took over sixth-form college from MSS upon its opening in 2004.\n\nThe University of the West Indies maintains its Montserrat Open Campus. The University of Science, Arts and Technology in Olveston, a private tertiary institution, was established in 2003 and is accredited by Montserrat's Ministry of Education.\n\nIn the pre-1997 era, Montserrat had state, private, and church schools. In 1989 the island had two day care centres. Its 12 nursery schools had 460 students in 1988. Its 12 primary schools had 1,403 students in 1988.\n\nPrior to 1928 residents had to go outside Montserrat to get secondary schooling. In 1928, the first secondary institution, Montserrat Boys Grammar School, a government boys-only school, opened. In 1932 a private girls-only secondary school opened. They merged into MSS in 1938.\n\nIn the pre-1997 era, Plymouth Junior Secondary School, Salem Junior Secondary School, and the MSS junior section had lower secondary education while MSS senior section had upper secondary education. They were branches of one secondary institution, and together had 1,043 students in 1988.\n\nThere was also a technical college, Montserrat Technical College (MTC), with 72 students in 1988.\n\n"}
{"id": "2036716", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2036716", "title": "Education in Papua New Guinea", "text": "Education in Papua New Guinea\n\nEducation in Papua New Guinea is managed through nineteen provinces and two district organisational units. It is tuition-free and attendance is not compulsory. With a literacy rate of 64.2%, Papua New Guinea has the lowest literacy rate in Oceania.\nThe first school in Papua New Guinea was established in 1873 by English missionaries. Missionaries would continue providing the basis for education, with English and German as primary languages. In 1914, as part of World War I, Australia took control over German New Guinea and English became the sole official language.\nThe Currie Commission was created in 1964 to investigate the establishment of higher education in the Territory of Papua and New Guinea. In 1965 the first university in Papua New Guinea, the University of Papua New Guinea, was established. It was heavily influenced by the Australian education system.\n\nEducation in Papua New Guinea has been tuition-free since 2012, as one of the election promises of the People's National Congress.\nPapua New Guinea's history of missionary education has led to a large part of education being provided by religious schools. The Department of Education has estimated that 29% of the country's lower secondary education is operated by churches. 3% is operated by private international schools, while the remainder is funded by the government.\n\nPapua New Guinea has an A-to-D grading system, with D being a failing grade.\n\nThere are six universities in Papua New Guinea. These are accredited under the PNG Office of Higher Education and have establishing Acts of Parliament. The six universities and the main campus of each are, in alphabetical order:\nIn 2015, Papua New Guinean Sign Language became an official language in PNG. Based on Auslan, it is used in deaf education.\n"}
{"id": "13953967", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13953967", "title": "First Student (United States)", "text": "First Student (United States)\n\nFirst Student, a division of FirstGroup America, is a brand used by the Scottish transport company FirstGroup for student transport in the United States. According to the company's website, it is the largest provider of school bus services in the United States. The company operates out of 650 locations in 39 US states and eight Canadian provinces.\n\nWith a workforce of 57,000 employees and a fleet of 48,000 vehicles, First Student transports approximately 6 million students daily. The company bus fleet drives over 600 million miles every year. First Student is the first school bus operator to integrate Zonar, an electronic fleet-management software program, into its fleet.\n\nFirst Student was created in 1999 when FirstGroup acquired the student transportation division of Ryder. During the next decade, the company expanded through the acquisition of other school bus contractors. \n\nBy 2007, FirstGroup had built the First Student network into one of the largest school bus contractors in the United States, and in the same year, the company acquired Laidlaw in a merger, taking over its school transportation operations as well. \n\nThe First Student brand has since been expanded into the UK, where First Student UK provides new student transportation services. \n\nOne bus has toured the country on trials.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11139487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11139487", "title": "Frictionless plane", "text": "Frictionless plane\n\nThe frictionless plane is a concept from the writings of Galileo Galilei. In his 1608 \"The Two New Sciences\", Galileo presented a formula that predicted the motion of an object moving down an inclined plane. His formula was based upon his past experimentation with free-falling bodies. However, his model was not based upon experimentation with objects moving down an inclined plane, but from his conceptual modeling of the forces acting upon the object. Galileo understood the mechanics of the inclined plane as the combination of horizontal and vertical vectors; the result of gravity acting upon the object, diverted by the slope of the plane.\n\nHowever, Galileo's equations do not contemplate friction, and therefore do not perfectly predict the results of an actual experiment. This is because some energy is always lost when one mass applies a non-zero normal force to another. Therefore, the observed speed, acceleration and distance traveled should be less than Galileo predicts. This energy is lost in forms like sound and heat. However, from Galileo's predictions of an object moving down an inclined plane in a frictionless environment, he created the theoretical foundation for extremely fruitful real-world experimental prediction.\n\nFrictionless planes do not exist in the real world. However, if they did, one can be almost certain that objects on them would behave exactly as Galileo predicts. Despite their nonexistence, they have considerable value in the design of engines, motors, roadways, and even tow-truck beds, to name a few examples.\n\nThe effect of friction on an object moving down an inclined plane can be calculated as\n\nwhere formula_2 is the force of friction exerted by the object and the inclined plane on each other, parallel to the surface of the plane, formula_3 is the normal force exerted by the object and the plane on each other, directed perpendicular to the plane, and formula_4 is the coefficient of kinetic friction.\n\nUnless the inclined plane is in a vacuum, a (usually) small amount of potential energy is also lost to air drag.\n\n"}
{"id": "3536121", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3536121", "title": "George Elliott Howard", "text": "George Elliott Howard\n\nGeorge Elliott Howard (1849–1928) was an American educator and author, born at Saratoga, New York.\n\nHe graduated from the University of Nebraska in 1876, studied in Europe at the universities of Munich and Paris (1876–1878), and was professor of history in the University of Nebraska from 1879 to 1891, and professor at Stanford from 1891 to 1901.\n\nProfessor Howard lectured at Cornell University (1902) and at the University of Chicago (1903–1904), then returned to the University of Nebraska.\n\n"}
{"id": "25487876", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25487876", "title": "Ghana School Feeding Programme", "text": "Ghana School Feeding Programme\n\nThe Ghana School Feeding Programme (GSFP) is a pilot project to provide food to children at school. It is run by the GSFP Secretariat in partnership with international agencies including the World Bank, the World Food Programme, the Partnership for Child Development and UNICEF, as well as national organizations including Canadian International Development Agency (CIDA), the US Agency for International Development (USAID) and the Dutch embassy.\n"}
{"id": "16926744", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16926744", "title": "Grundtvig programme", "text": "Grundtvig programme\n\nThe Grundtvig programme is a European funding programme that is part of the European Commission’s Lifelong Learning Programme 2007–2013 and aims to strengthen the European dimension in adult education and lifelong learning across Europe.\n\nThe programme specifically seeks to address the educational challenge of an ageing population and to provide adults with alternative pathways to updating their skills and competences. The Grundtvig programme encompasses all types of learning, whether these take place in the 'formal' or 'non-formal' system of education for adults, or in more 'informal' ways, such as autonomous learning, community learning or experiential learning. \n\nIt is open to anyone in adult education. This includes adult learners, teachers and trainers from a variety of organisations including local authorities, non-governmental organisations, charities, universities, community groups, etc. 'Adult' in the Grundtvig programme refers to all persons over the age of 25 and all persons aged 16–24 who are no longer undergoing initial education within the formal education system. \n\nThe Grundtvig programme provides funding for a wide range of activities. Some examples are basic skills, foreign languages, parental education, arts and culture projects. All projects involve working with European partners and offer a learning and personal development experience for staff and learners.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "39608849", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39608849", "title": "Henry C. Groseclose", "text": "Henry C. Groseclose\n\nHenry C. Groseclose was born on May 17, 1892. He lived in Ceres, Virginia for most of his life. Mr. Groseclose completed his junior college degree from Washington and Lee University in 1917. In his later years, he also received his bachelor’s degree, as well as his master’s degree, in agricultural education from Virginia Tech. While Mr. Groseclose was an agriculture teacher at the Virginia Polytechnic Institute, he, along with three other agriculture teachers, Walter Newman, Edmund Magill and Harry Sanders, decided to establish a club for the farm boys in the school. The organization was formed in 1925. Groseclose named the organization the Future Farmers of Virginia, or FFV for short. \nThe original meaning for the abbreviation FFV stood for the First Families of Virginia. The “first families” referred to the families of both George Washington and Thomas Jefferson. Referring to Washington and Jefferson, Groseclose once stated that, “The Future Farmers of America should follow the example of these great sons of early Virginia by using scientific knowledge, intelligence, and enthusiasm to the end that agriculture may again be known as the profession of the real aristocrat.” Groseclose wrote the by-laws, as well as the constitution that the FFV would be based on. \nIn 1926, he also wrote, and brought into play, the formal ceremony that would take place as an organizational pattern to structure each meeting. Two years later, in 1928, the FFV became a nationwide organization. This developed the organization that is known today as the Future Farmers of America, or The National FFA Organization, or just FFA for short. The by-laws drawn up by Henry Groseclose became the foundation of the newly national organization. Also, the formal ceremony that Groseclose developed was taken on by the FFA as a national ritual that is still used today. Groseclose was a seventh degree Grange member, and he was also involved with the Masons, so it was no surprise when he developed levels of memberships for the FFV, which transferred through to the FFA, that were similar to the three leveled membership structure that the Masons uses. These three levels included the Greenhand, the Virginia Farmer and the Virginia Planter. \nWhile the official emblem of the National FFA Organization was being drawn, Groseclose’s original emblem, which he hand drew himself, was highly considered and ended up playing a part in the emblem that is still the emblem of the National FFA Organization today. The part of the emblem that was from Mr. Groseclose’s original drawing included a background setting of a half plowed wheat field with an owl perched upon a spade of wheat in front of the field. \nHenry Groseclose served as the Executive Secretary of the National FFA Organization for two years between 1928 and 1930. During his office of Executive Secretary, he announced at the national convention of 1930 that he had written, and would be releasing, an official FFA manual, which outlined the organization, procedures and structures of the National FFA Organization. Mr. Groseclose also served as the Treasurer of the National FFA Organization for 11 years, between 1930 and 1941. \nIn September 1925, Henry Groseclose set his expectations for the members of the FFV, and the purpose of the establishment of the Future Farmers of Virginia was by saying, \"In my opinion the farm boys of Virginia who are enrolled in vocational agriculture are equal to any other group of boys in the state. But somehow the boys themselves seem to have a feeling of inferiority. Especially is this true when the farm boy goes to the city and has to compete with his city cousin. This condition should not exist. I believe that a strong organization of our boys in agriculture would help them to overcome this handicap. Let's form an organization that will give them a greater opportunity for self-expression and for the development of leadership. In this way they will develop confidence in their own ability and pride in the fact that they are farm boys.\" Mr. Henry C. Groseclose died on June 4, 1950. In 2002, the Department of Historic Resources established a marker in Mr. Groseclose’s honor. It is Marker number KC-5 and it is displayed in Bland County of Ceres, Virginia.\n\n"}
{"id": "13039906", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13039906", "title": "Higher education in Norway", "text": "Higher education in Norway\n\nHigher education in Norway is offered by a range of eight universities, nine specialised universities, 24 university colleges as well as a range of private university colleges. The national higher education system is in accordance with the Bologna process, with bachelor's degrees (\"first cycle\", three years), master's degrees (\"second cycle\", two years) and doctoral degrees (\"third cycle\", three years). Acceptance is offered after finishing upper secondary school with general university admissions certification.\n\nPublic education is free, with an academic year with two semesters, from August to December and from January to June. The ultimate responsibility for the education lies with the Norwegian Ministry of Education and Research.\n\nAcceptance to higher education requires either fulfilled three years of upper secondary school with general university admissions certification. This is awarded non-vocational students or vocational students who choose to not take their apprenticeship. Conversely study competence can be achieved by the so-called 23/5 rule where applicants must be 23 years of age and have a total of five years of upper secondary education and work experience as well as have passed courses in Norwegian, English, mathematics, science and social studies. To be accepted as certain lines (for instance engineering) advanced courses in mathematics, physics and chemistry must be passed.\n\nAdmission to bachelor level programs is coordinated through the Norwegian Universities and Colleges Admission Service based on a point scale, with the highest ranking students offered a place. Points are awarded based on average grades from upper secondary school, but additional points are awarded students with secondary two-year course specialization, science specialization, age and fulfilled one year of higher education, military service or folk high school. Secondary school grades can be improved to increase points, but 40% of the places are only offered based on original transcripts without age or study points.\n\nIn 2003 a national reform, called the Quality reform, was implemented throughout the entire national higher education system. Norway was one of the first countries in Europe to implement the Bologna convention, thus creating a 3+2+3 year system in accordance with the Bologna Process.\n\nA further step was taken in 2005 when the Act Relating to Universities and University Colleges and the Private Higher Education Institutions Act were merged into one common Act, the Act relating to universities and university colleges. The common act ensures greater equality between the public and private higher education institutions, thus focusing more on the quality in higher education than ownership. The evaluation of Quality Assurance Systems at and accreditation of both public and private institutions are handled by a national agency for quality assurance, NOKUT.\n\nMost students that fulfill the requirements for entrance to higher education in Norway are accepted to three-year Bachelor programs.\n\nEntrance to the two-year master programs are based upon the academic qualifications (grades) from the bachelor level.\n\nSome programs (including architecture, business management at NHH, engineering at NTNU), Master of Dentistry and Master of Laws are five-year programs (one-tier degrees).\n\nThree types of master's degrees are offered: Master of Science (science and business), Master of Philosophy (humanities and social studies) and Master of Technology (engineering).\n\nSome professional oriented programs have been granted an exemption from the Bologna system. Physicians (cand.med.), veterinarians (cand.med.vet.), psychologist (cand.psychol.) and theologians (cand.theol.) are therefore still awarded degrees for six years of study.\n\nDoctor Philosophae degrees are awarded after three years of research-oriented education. Most programs also include one year of compulsory teaching as part of the education, making the total length of the program four years.\n\nAccording to the ECTS-system the grading are given according to scale of six grades, ranging from an A to F, with A being the best and E the worst passing grade. F is a fail.\n\nA normal study progression awards 60 credits (stp) per year (30 per semester), most institutions either use a 7.5 or a 10 credit block system.\n\nExaminations are usually held every semester, in December and June, although exceptions occur.\n\nPrior to 2002 the higher education in Norway had a significantly different system of education with roots back to the start of higher education in the country. It was based on a 3.5 or 4 year cand.mag. degree supplemented with a Masters or \"hovedfag\" lasting 1.5 or 2 years. Total study time was five years within sciences while it was six years within social studies and humanities. Master's degrees were named based on the line of study, for instance cand.scient. within science, cand.polit. in political studies or cand.oecon. within economics. Certain professional studies, such as medicine, law, and some engineering and business administration courses had professional studies that offered full-length degrees (without issuing cand.mag. titles). The titles awarded were cand.jur. (law, 6 years), cand.med. (medical doctor, 6 years), cand.psychol. (doctor of psychology, 6 years), siviløkonom (business administration, 4 years) or sivilingeniør (engineering, 4.5 years). NHH had a monopoly educating siviløkonoms while NTH had a monopoly educating sivilingeniørs. Doctorate studies were offered on top of the masters.\n\nGrading was performed on a 1.0 to 4.0 system, with 1.0 as the best grade and 4.0 the worst passing grade. A total of 41 different grades could be awarded with the system. Credits (then called \"vekttall\") were issued based on a nominal study of 20 credits per year (or 10 per semester).\n\nTraditionally there were only four universities in Norway, located in Oslo (since 1811), Bergen (1948), Trondheim (1968) and Tromsø (1972). Since 2005 any college offering five master programs and four doctoral programs can title themselves a university, leading to the Norwegian University of Life Sciences, Stavanger University College and Agder University College converting to universities.\n\nThe public universities of Norway are:\n\nCurrently there are no private universities in Norway, although BI Norwegian Business School has tried to advance to a full university.\n\nThere are six public and three private specialised universities in Norway, each functioning as a national competence centre for the field they represent. Six are located in Oslo, one is in Molde, one is in Bergen and one in Stavanger. The Norwegian Institute of Technology and the Norwegian College of Agriculture have converted to full universities.\n\nThe public specialised universities in Norway are:\n\nThe private specialised universities are:\n\nThe 23 university colleges in Norway are responsible for regional education of primarily bachelor level education within the fields of nursing, teaching, business management, engineering and information technology, though most colleges also offer a number of other educations as well.\n\nThe public university colleges in Norway consist of:\nThe accredited private university colleges in Norway are:\n\nThere are a number of private higher education institutions in Norway, although the public institution cover more than ninety per cent of the student population in the country, meaning that less than ten per cent of students attend private institutions.\n\nThe private institutions offer primarily programs and courses within popular fields of study where the number of public places is limited or offering accelerated courses. However some provide specialised courses not found in the public institutions such as Noroff University College in Kristiansand.\n\nMost of the private institutions are foundations, either autonomous (like the BI Norwegian Business School and Campus Kristiania) or part of various religious societies, like the School of Missions and Theology or Queen Maud University College.\n\nStudents attending private institutions may have to pay school fees equivalent to the entire cost of operating the education, though the Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund will grant loans to cover the tuition fees.\n\nThere are no tuition fees for attending public higher education in Norway, as all the costs are covered by the Ministry of Education and Research.\n\nStudents are also given the opportunity to apply for financial support (a part loan/part grant) from the Norwegian State Educational Loan Fund. The main requirement for support from Fund is that you are a Norwegian citizen. However, foreign citizens may also be entitled to financial support.\n\nEligible applicants may be granted financial support (a part loan/part grant) of about NOK 90,000. It is initially given as a full loan, but upon completion of modules in the education around 40 percent of the amount is transferred to a scholarship/grant if the modules are passed. There is no interest paid while taking the education.\n\nWhile studying, all students belong to a student welfare organisation that takes care of such services as housing, on-campus dining, book stores, kindergartens, advisory services and some health care. Part of this is finances through a student fee, typically at NOK 300–500 per semester. There are a total of 25 such organisations, each covering a geographic area and often consisting of more than one institution. The sole exception is Oslo where there are two.\n\nThe five main universities in Bergen, Oslo, Trondheim, Tromsø and Stavanger all offer a wide selection of courses within most fields, while certain minor fields have been left to the specialised universities, including veterinary studies and sports. Many educations are left to the regional colleges.\n\nArchitecture is only offered at two public institutions, NTNU in Trondheim and the Oslo School of Architecture and Design. In addition the private college Bergen School of Architecture offers architect education. NTNU accepts students based on grades while the Oslo School accepts students based on a portfolio. Landscape architecture and area planning is offered at the Norwegian University of Life Sciences at Ås.\n\nMost business administrators are educated at the regional colleges throughout the country, with Bachelor programs offered in Alta, Tromsø, Narvik, Bodø, Steinkjer, Trondheim, Molde, Ålesund, Sogndal, Bergen, Haugesund, Stavanger, Kristiansand, Kongsberg, Oslo, Ås, Halden, Lillehammer, Gjøvik and Hamar. In addition NHH in Bergen is the specialised college offering the highest level of education within the field. Business administration is also offered at some private colleges, most notably the BI Norwegian Business School in Oslo.\n\nEight institutions offer a Master of Science in Business Administration, also granting the right to use the protected title siviløkonom. These are Bodø Graduate School of Business, Trondheim Business School, Molde University College, the Norwegian School of Economics and Business Administration, the University of Stavanger, the University of Agder, BI Norwegian Business School and the Norwegian University of Life Sciences. Until the 1980s this level of education was only offered at NHH.\n\nIn general, three-year bachelor's degrees in engineering are offered throughout the country at the regional colleges, most dominantly within the fields of construction, chemistry, electronics and informatics, though many others also exist. Five-year Master of Technology degrees are offered as well, primarily at the Norwegian University of Science and Technology (NTNU) in Trondheim and the University of Stavanger (UiS), though also at some other institutions to a lesser degree. Candidates with three years of education can apply to attend the last two years at NTNU or UiS to complete a Master's study. All Master engineers can use the protected title sivilingeniør. NTNU offers 14 different programs in engineering, whereas UiS only offers 8 different studies in engineering.\n\nJuridical education is offered at the universities in Oslo, Bergen and Tromsø. Education lasts five years, and after that you are given the title \"Master i Rettsvitenskap\", meaning a legal skilled person. For becoming a lawyer you need to work as lawyer apprentice (advokatfullmektig) for at least two years and have had five cases before a judge.\n\nMedicine is offered at the four of the five major universities in Oslo, Bergen, Trondheim and Tromsø, who have close cooperation with the university hospitals in the cities. Medical education takes six years and still grants the old cand.med. degree. After school candidates are required 1.5 years of practice before being granted certification. After six additional years of work experience they are awarded specialist certification.\n\nThere are two ways to become a qualified teacher in Norway. For primary and lower secondary levels a four-year general teacher education is offered at most regional colleges in the country. This education qualifies the teachers to teach all subjects offered in the lower levels of education in Norway, though it allows students to specialize in subjects. Preschool teaching is offered at some of the regional colleges too.\n\nFor upper secondary school taking a degree at a university within the appropriate subject is the preferred course of line. After taking a degree, either at Bachelor or Master level, a one-year course in pedagogy is required before teacher certification is granted. To teach a particular subject at the upper secondary level, 60 credits in the appropriate field is required, making most teachers qualified to teach two or three subjects, though these are not absolute requirements.\n\nVirtually all education within the sciences are offered at the five major universities, in Bergen, Oslo, Trondheim, Tromsø and Stavanger, though some regional colleges have one-years or perhaps Bachelor programs in certain fields.\n\n"}
{"id": "45595036", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45595036", "title": "Institute of International Relations (Turkmenistan)", "text": "Institute of International Relations (Turkmenistan)\n\nThe Institute of International Relations (Turkmen: Halkara Gatnaşyklary Instituty; Russian: Институт международных отношений) is a diplomatic academy of Turkmenistan, which is considered as the country's \"national school of diplomacy.\" It was formally created on March 20, 2008, by decree of Turkmenistan's President Gurbanguly Berdimuhamedow.\n\nThe institute includes four colleges (\"faculties\"): international relations, international law, international economic relations, and international journalism. Subordinate to them are six departments: international relations and diplomacy, international and comparative law, international economic relations, theory and practice of journalism, world languages, and social sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "21052587", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21052587", "title": "Instituto Superior de Intérpretes y Traductores", "text": "Instituto Superior de Intérpretes y Traductores\n\nThe Instituto Superior de Intérpretes y Traductores, S.C. (in English: Superior Institute of Interpreters and Translators), commonly known as ISIT, is a private university located in Mexico City, Mexico. It focuses on interpretation and translation, and it became the first institution in the Americas to academically acknowledge these disciplines as bachelor degrees.\n\nISIT has worked along with Fondo de Cultura Económica (Economic Culture Fund), the Instituto Nacional de Bellas Artes (National Institute of Fine Arts), Asociación de Escritores de México (Writers Association of Mexico) and the National Autonomous University of Mexico (UNAM). It is also a member of the American Translators Association.\n\nIt relies on Spanish, English, French, Portuguese and Italian for fields such as automotive, Chemistry, Engineering and Politics.\n\nISIT's library stores 2500 volumes, 250 videocassettes, 90 audio cassettes and 20 maps, and it is recognised by UNAM's Centro Universitario de Investigaciones Bibliotecológicas.\n\n"}
{"id": "18767385", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18767385", "title": "Interagency Language Roundtable", "text": "Interagency Language Roundtable\n\nThe Interagency Language Roundtable (ILR) is an unfunded organization comprising various agencies of the United States Federal Government with the purpose of coordinating and sharing information on foreign language activities at the federal level.\n\nThe ILR's primary function is to act as an avenue for the varying participating federal agencies to keep abreast of modern methods and technology regarding the teaching of language, the use of language, and any other language related issues.\n\nThe ILR membership consists of a large number of people with professional interest in language with regards to the teaching, learning, or use of language in a professional context. About 60% of the membership are federal employees.\n\nAside from general membership, the ILR has three standing special interests committees:\n\nCommittees are chaired by federal employees from five different agencies.\n\nAdditionally, the ILR hosts the ILR Special Interest Group (SIG) on the Center for Advanced Study of Language (CASL). CASL SIG meetings, unlike ILR plenary meetings, are not open to general membership, allowing only federal representatives in attendance.\n\nAny interested person may attend unrestricted ILR plenary meetings and events, requiring only two days advance registration via the ILR home page. To become an ILR member, a person must first join their mailing list. Joining a specific committee requires only notifying a co-chair of the committee involved, and regularly attending meetings. Further details are listed on the ILR website. Membership is free.\n\nPlenary meetings are held monthly between September and June. Lectures and demonstrations on linguistic general interest topics are featured at every plenary meeting. Prior to each plenary meeting, each committee meets to discuss specific topics of interest. Some committee meetings are not open to general membership, due to coverage of certain topics of federal interest. These meetings' attendance restrictions are announced in advance.\n\nMost plenary meetings boast between 75 and 100 attendees.\n\nAll officers of the ILR are volunteers who hold full-time federal positions elsewhere.\nThe Foreign Service Institute, the National Cryptologic School, and the Defense Language Institute lend additional minor clerical assistance.\n\nThe origins of the ILR can be traced back to 1955, when the Foreign Service Institute's Howard Sollenberger, the CIA's Clyde Sargent, and James Frith of the Air Force Language Program, conversed regarding the need for communication and coordination between federal agencies in training, policies, and practices of foreign languages.\n\nSubsequent meetings included attendance by members of the local academic community as well as Charles Ferguson, Director of the Center for Applied Linguistics.\n\nThe ILR was formally institutionalized in 1973, after a study conducted by the General Accounting Office demonstrated the value of the organization.\n\nSince the 1950s, the ILR has made a number of contributions to the field of linguistics, both for American and foreign linguists, including, but not limited to:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2121860", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2121860", "title": "International Conference on Bisexuality", "text": "International Conference on Bisexuality\n\nThe International Conference on Bisexuality (ICB), also known as the International BiCon, was a periodic gathering of bisexual activists and academics from around the world.\n\nStarted by Fritz Klein and a group of fellow activists, the first ICB was held in Amsterdam in 1991 and followed the concept of a BiCon started in the UK in 1984. The last one was 2010 in London.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51911702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51911702", "title": "International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy", "text": "International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy\n\nThe International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy – ICISSP – will have the third edition in 2017 in conjunction with the International Conference on Model-Driven Engineering and Software Development - MODELSWARD - and the International Conference on Sensor Networks - SENSORNETS. \nThis conference aims to create a meeting point for practitioners and researchers interested in security and privacy challenges that concern information systems covering technological and social issues.\n\nThe format of this conference counts on technical sessions, poster sessions, tutorials, doctoral consortiums, panels, industrial tracks and keynote lectures. The papers presented in the conference are made available at the SCITEPRESS digital library, published in the conference proceedings and some of the best papers are invited to a post-publication with Springer, in a CCIS Series book.\n\nICISSP also counts on keynote talks. Elisa Bertino (Purdue University, United States), Nancy Cam-Winget (Cisco Systems, United States) and Bart Preneel (KU Leuven, Belgium) are the names announced in the conference website as the invited speakers for the next conference edition.\n\n\nProceedings of the 4th International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy. \n\nProceedings of the 3rd International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy. \n\nProceedings of the 2nd International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy. \n\nProceedings of the 1st International Conference on Information Systems Security and Privacy . \n\n2016<br>\n\"Best Paper Award\" – Christoph Kerschbaumer, Sid Stamm and Stefan Brunthaler. “Injecting CSP for Fun and Security” \n\n\"Best Student Paper Award\" - Kexin Qiao, Lei Hu and Siwei Sun, “Differential Security Evaluation of Simeck with Dynamic Key-guessing Techniques” \n\n2015<br>\n\"Best Paper Award\" - Fabian Knirsch, Dominik Engel, Christian Neureiter, Marc Frincu and Viktor Prasanna. \"Model-driven Privacy Assessment in the Smart Grid\"\n\n\"Best Student Paper Award\" - Carsten Büttner and . \"A Novel Anonymous Authenticated Key Agreement Protocol for Vehicular Ad Hoc Networks\"\n\n"}
{"id": "57999503", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57999503", "title": "International Education Association of South Africa", "text": "International Education Association of South Africa\n\nThe post-apartheid era provided South African Universities and Technikons the opportunity to further enhance existing international relations, or to establish new relationships, towards promoting education in South Africa in the context of internationalization of higher education. In 1992 already, Dr Derek Swemmer (Registrar: University of the Witwatersrand) and Dr Roshen Kishun (Registrar University of Natal) started discussions that focused on areas of mutual concern and interests. One of the key challenges were to set a common agenda for all South African tertiary institutions with a key focus on internationalisation. After a number of meetings between the various stakeholders, the International Education Association of South Africa (IEASA) was officially launched on 29 January 1997.\n\nThe International Education Association of South Africa aims to draft, monitor and/or implement policies that contribute towards international education. To this end, IEASA promotes and maintains cooperative relationships with relevant government and other departments and bodies.\n\nIEASA annually publishes Study SA, a South African publication that provides an overview of South African Higher Education issues and developments. \n"}
{"id": "1018774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1018774", "title": "Joseph M. Acaba", "text": "Joseph M. Acaba\n\nJoseph Michael \"Joe\" Acaba (born May 17, 1967) is an American educator, hydrogeologist, and NASA astronaut. In May 2004 he became the first person of Puerto Rican heritage to be named as a NASA astronaut candidate, when he was selected as a member of NASA Astronaut Training Group 19. He completed his training on February 10, 2006 and was assigned to STS-119, which flew from March 15 to March 28, 2009 to deliver the final set of solar arrays to the International Space Station. Acaba served as a Flight Engineer aboard the International Space Station, having launched on May 15, 2012. He arrived at the space station on May 17 and returned to Earth on September 17, 2012. Acaba returned to the International Space Station in 2017 as a member of Expedition 53/54. \n\nAcaba's parents, Ralph and Elsie Acabá, from Hatillo, Puerto Rico, moved in the mid-1960s to Inglewood, California where he was born. They later moved to Anaheim, California. Since his childhood, Acaba enjoyed reading, especially science fiction. In school, he excelled in both science and math. As a child, his parents constantly exposed him to educational films, but it was the 8-mm film showing astronaut Neil Armstrong's Moon landing which really intrigued him about outer space. During his senior year in high school, Acaba became interested in scuba diving and became a certified scuba diver through a job training program at his school. This experience inspired him to further his academic education in the field of geology. In 1985, he graduated with honors from Esperanza High School in Anaheim.\n\nIn 1990, Acaba received his Bachelor's degree in Geology from the University of California, Santa Barbara and in 1992, he earned his Master's degree in Geology from the University of Arizona. Acaba was a Sergeant in the United States Marine Corps Reserves where he served for six years. He also worked as a hydrogeologist in Los Angeles, California. Acaba spent two years in the United States Peace Corps and trained over 300 teachers in the Dominican Republic in modern teaching methodologies. He then served as Island Manager of the Caribbean Marine Research at Lee Stocking Island in the Exumas, Bahamas. Upon his return to the United States, Acaba moved to Florida where he became Shoreline Revegetation Coordinator in Vero Beach. He taught one year of science and math in high school and four years at Dunnellon Middle School. He also briefly taught at Melbourne High School in Melbourne, Florida. Upon his return to Earth in Fall 2012, Acaba began coursework for a Ph.D. in education from Texas Tech University through a distance learning program.\n\nOn May 6, 2004, Acaba and ten other people were selected from 99 applicants by NASA as astronaut candidates. NASA's administrator, Sean O'Keefe, in the presence of John Glenn, announced the members of the \"19th group of Astronaut Candidates\", an event which has not been repeated since 1958 when the original group of astronauts was presented to the world. Acaba, who was selected as an Educator Mission Specialist, completed his astronaut training on February 10, 2006 along with the other ten Astronaut Candidates. Upon completion of his training, Acaba was assigned to the Hardware Integration Team in the International Space Station branch, working technical issues with European Space Agency (ESA) hardware.\nAcaba was assigned to the crew of STS-119 as Mission Specialist Educator, which was launched on March 15, 2009 at 7:43 p.m., after NASA engineers repaired a leaky gas venting system the previous week, to deliver the final set of solar arrays to the International Space Station. Acaba, who carried on his person a Puerto Rican flag, requested that the crew be awakened on March 19 (Day 5) with the Puerto Rico folklore song \"Qué Bonita Bandera\" (What a Beautiful Flag) referring to the Puerto Rican flag, written in 1971 by Florencio Morales Ramos (Ramito) and sung by Jose Gonzalez and Banda Criolla.On March 20, he provided support to the first mission spacewalk and on March 21, he performed a spacewalk with Steve Swanson in which he helped to successfully unfurl the final \"wings\" of the solar array that will augment power to the ISS. 2 days later, Acaba performed his second EVA of the mission, with crew member Ricky Arnold. The main task of the EVA was to help move the CETA carts on the outside of the station to a different location. On March 28 the and its crew of seven safely touched down on runway 15 at NASA's Kennedy Space Center in Florida at 3:14 p.m. EDT. Acaba said he was amazed at the views from the space station.\nOn May 15, 2012, Acaba was one of three crew members launching from Kazakhstan aboard the Soyuz TMA-04M spacecraft to the International Space Station. He and his fellow crew members, Gennady Padalka and Sergei Revin, arrived and docked with the space station two days after launch, on May 17 at 4:36 UTC. Acaba, along with Padalka and Revin, returned to Earth on September 17, 2012, after nearly 125 days in space.\n\nAcaba served as the Branch Chief of the International Space Station Operations branch. The office is responsible for mission preparation and on-orbit support of space station crews.\nUntil being selected as flight engineer for Expedition 54\\Expedition 55 Acaba served as Director of Operations Russia in Star City supporting crew training in Soyuz and Russian Segment systems.\n\nIn 2017 it was announced that Acaba would be returning to the ISS for his third mission, onboard Soyuz MS-06. The Soyuz vehicle was originally slated to launch with a crew of 2, due to the Russian crew cuts on the ISS for 2017, however at short notice it was decided that the 3rd seat would be filled by an experienced astronaut and would be funded by Roscosmos to cancel out owed debts. Acaba's backup for the mission was Shannon Walker, who should fly as prime crew on Soyuz MS-12. Acaba launched on Soyuz MS-06 on September 12, 2017, performing a 6 hour rendezvous with the ISS. On October 20, 2017, Acaba and Randy Bresnik performed an EVA to continue with the lubrication of the new end effector on the robotic arm, and to install new cameras. The duration was 6 hours and 49 minutes. During the mission Acaba's home in Houston was flooded by Hurricane Harvey and Hurricane Maria struck his native Puerto Rico.\n\nOn March 18, 2008, Acaba was honored by the Senate of Puerto Rico, which sponsored his first trip to the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico since being selected for space flight. During his visit, which was announced by then President of the Puerto Rican Senate, Kenneth McClintock, he met with schoolchildren at the Capitol, as well as at the Bayamón, Puerto Rico Science Park, which includes a planetarium and several surplus NASA rockets among its exhibits.\n\nAcaba, returned to Puerto Rico on June 1, 2009. During his visit, he was presented with a proclamation by then Governor Luis Fortuño. He spent seven days on the island and came into contact with over 10,000 persons, most of them schoolchildren.\n\nHe received the Ana G. Mendez University System Presidential Medal and a Honorary Doctorate from the Polytechnic University of Puerto Rico, where he inaugurated a flight simulator on February 7, 2013 during one of his visits to Puerto Rico to promote the study of math and science among students, as well as to visit his relatives. Caras Magazine named him one of the most influential and exciting Puerto Ricans of 2012.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49205875", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49205875", "title": "Journal of School Health", "text": "Journal of School Health\n\nThe Journal of School Health is a monthly peer-reviewed academic journal covering the health of school students. It was established in 1930 as the School Physicians' Bulletin, obtaining its current name in 1937. It is published by Wiley-Blackwell on behalf of the American School Health Association. The editor-in-chief is Robert J. McDermott. According to the \"Journal Citation Reports\", the journal has a 2014 impact factor of 1.434, ranking it 11th out of 37 journals in the category \"Education Scientific Disciplines\".\n"}
{"id": "11515238", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11515238", "title": "Kimberly Johnson", "text": "Kimberly Johnson\n\nKimberly Johnson (born 1971) is an American poet and Renaissance scholar.\n\nJohnson was raised in West Jordan, Utah. She earned her MA in 1995 from the Johns Hopkins University Writing Seminars, her MFA in 1997 Iowa Writers' Workshop, and a PhD in 2003 from University of California, Berkeley.\n\nShe teaches courses in creative writing and Renaissance literature at Brigham Young University (BYU). Johnson's academic interests include lyric poetry, John Milton, and John Donne.\n\nHer work has appeared recently in \"The New Yorker\", \"Slate\", \"The Iowa Review\", \"32 Poems\", and \"The Yale Review\", and her translations from Latin and Greek have been published in literary and academic journals. She has also published a number of scholarly articles on seventeenth-century literature.\n\nShe has edited a collection of essays on Renaissance literature, and an online archive of John Donne's complete sermons.\n\nShe is married to poet Jay Hopler.\n\nIn 2005, she was awarded a Creative Writing Fellowship from the National Endowment for the Arts to support the completion of her second collection, \"A Metaphorical God\". In 2011, she received a Guggenheim Fellowship.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6825217", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6825217", "title": "List of public schools in Chișinău", "text": "List of public schools in Chișinău\n\nThis is a list of public high schools (lyceums) that include grades 9 through 12 in Chişinău, Moldova.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30972447", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30972447", "title": "Lyryx Learning Inc", "text": "Lyryx Learning Inc\n\nLyryx Learning (Lyryx) is an educational software company offering open educational resources (OERs) paired with affordable online homework for undergraduate introductory courses in Mathematics & Statistics and Business & Economics.\n\nIn 1997, Claude Laflamme and Keith Nicholson, Professors in the Department of Mathematics and Statistics at the University of Calgary, began work on the design of online tools to support student learning in their classes. Laflamme and Nicholson developed and implemented a formative assessment system which provided immediate, substantive feedback to students based on their work.\n\nIn 2000, Laflamme and Nicholson, together with two software developers, Bruce Bauslaugh and Richard Cannings, formed Lyryx Learning Inc., to offer this platform in a number of quantitative disciplines. By 2010, Lyryx supported approximately 100,000 students and 2,000 instructors per year in Canada.\n\nAfter several years of developing formative online assessment for content from various publishers, including McGraw-Hill Ryerson in Canada and Flat World Knowledge in the US, Lyryx became a fully independent publisher supporting OERs in 2013 with the launch of Lyryx with Open Texts.\n\nTo support the use of OERs in large enrollment undergraduate introductory courses in Mathematics & Statistics and Business & Economics, Lyryx moved to a social enterprise business model: Funding from the online homework supports both the development and maintenance of OERs as well as contributions to the community. In addition, Lyryx also offers an option of free access to their online homework from an institution's computer labs.\n\nLyryx with Open Texts includes:\n\n\nAccounting\nEconomics\nMathematics\n\nIn addition to lyryx.com, Lyryx Learning open textbooks are also listed in the following repositories:\n\nLyryx with Open Texts received a \"2017 Honorable Mention\" from the Open Education Consortium \n\n"}
{"id": "27451232", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27451232", "title": "MaRRS Spelling Bee", "text": "MaRRS Spelling Bee\n\nMaRRS International Spelling Bee is one of the Spelling Bee competition held in Asia for school children. It is conducted by MaRRS Intellectual Services Pvt. Ltd. The assessment and learning materials for the M.I.S.B is created in association with expert faculty from the English and Foreign Language University (E.F.L.U),Hyderabad. The objective of the competition is to enhance the spelling and literary skills of children by encouraging them to explore the English language, expand their vocabulary and improve their communication and comprehension skills.\n\nUnlike a normal Spelling Bee, the M.I.S.B has been designed as a motivational learning programme with training modules built in. The eleven rounds of the competition goes beyond just spellings and tests almost all the elements of the English Language.\n\nThe competition was started in 2003, and now close to a million students participate in the competition annually.\n\nThe First International Championship was conducted in Mumbai on 17 April 2007. Arjun B. Nair from Infant Jesus School, Kerala, was the first overall champion.\n\nThe Second International Championship was conducted on 8 November 2009 at two venues, Delhi and Dubai. Twenty students from the Dubai Center and sixty students from the Indian Center qualified for the final round. Shivani Nirgudkar of Thakur Public School, Mumbai was adjudged the best performer of the competition.\n\nThe Third International Championship was held at Nexus International School, Malaysia. Aditi D. Joshi of Manovikas School, Goa (India), was the best performer of the year.\n\nThe Fourth International Championship was held at Al Nahda Girls' School, Al Mushrif, Abu Dhabi. Juzer Malbari of Christ Church School, Mumbai was the best performer.\n\nThe competition begins from the school level and moves on to the First National Assessment(F.N.A), State, National and finally to the International Level. The students are divided into six categories based on their grades at school. They face written and oral rounds. The written rounds are rounds such as Dictation, Jumbled Letters, Word Application, Crossword, Idioms, and Phrasal Verbs. The oral rounds involve Spell It (students spell the words until they make a mistake), pronunciation, and finally Antonyms and Synonyms round. In 2012, two new rounds were added from the State Oral and National Written rounds onwards. The Word Origin round (oral) deals with etymology, while the Supra segmentals round (written) is divided into two — one with the marking of stress and syllables and the other with the identification of the underlined letter's pronunciation (in IPA).\n\n"}
{"id": "39074994", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39074994", "title": "Makerere University Library", "text": "Makerere University Library\n\nMakerere University Library is the main library of Makerere University in Kampala, Uganda. It is the oldest academic library in Uganda, established in 1949. In addition to its primary role as an academic library, it also serves as the national reference library and the legal depository of all works published in Uganda. It has been a depository for the United Nations since 1956.\n\nAlong with the main library, there are seven specialized branch libraries. On-campus libraries include the College of Business and Management Studies, College of Education and External Studies, College of Engineering, Design, Art and Technology; College of Humanities and Social Sciences; College of Natural Sciences; and College of Veterinary Medicine, Animal Resources and Bio-Security.\nThe College of Agriculture and Environmental Sciences at Kabanyolo and College of Health Sciences at Albert Cook Medical Library at Mulago have libraries located off campus.\n\nThe largest library is the main branch, which is 130,000 square feet and contains the majority of the collection. It has undergone numerous renovations and extensions in 1962, 1972 and 2006. The most recent occurred in December 2012, after which the President of the Republic of Uganda officially reopened the library.\n\nThe Office of University Librarian is the director and reports to the Vice-Chancellor of Academic Affairs. The current director is Maria Musoke, who is the first Ugandan woman to have a Ph.D. in information science. There are ten other program directors, each responsible for a specific area or function of the library.\nAll policy must be approved by University council, the highest tier of decision making at the university. The library also uses the following committees for administrative purposes: finance, appointments, heads of sections/college libraries, professional staff, ICTs/projects, research and staff development, preservation and conservation and staff welfare.\n\nThe Africana and special collection area of the library is located on the fourth floor of the main library. It contains materials related to East Africa, general Africana texts and books and documents on Uganda.\nThis includes papers, reports and publications from individuals, private and official organizations dating ranging from the 19th century to current day. Examples include copies of the first newspapers and photographs from Uganda,church files, UN publications and diaries and journal entries form explorers, travelers, missionaries, military and political figures. Especially notable is the amount of historical documents from the early periods of colonization in East Africa.\nConsidered the primary depository and research center for East African history, it also includes a music and photographic collection of great historic and cultural significance.<ref name=\"Africana/Special Collections Official\"></ref> Theses and dissertations from African universities are also stored in this area along with university archival materials.\n\nOriginating in 1990,the book bank houses copies of textbooks and classroom materials collected from academic departments throughout the university's history.Current textbooks and materials are also held here. It ensures that students have access to textbooks despite limited funds, allows sharing between departments and keeps a record of curricular materials. The collection currently contains 200,000 materials.\n\nThe area dedicated to law contains textbooks on law and human rights in a number of languages and periodicals and law reports from the UK, America, India and Africa. It also houses the Human Rights and Peace Center (HURIPEC) Collection of humanitarian law materials which focuses on teaching research, teaching and activism. In conjunction with the program of study offered by the University, this is the first human rights center in Sub-Saharan Africa.\n\nNamed for the International Development Agency which donated the core collection, it includes reference materials and textbooks for undergraduate use. The World Bank continues to play an active role in the contribution of materials.\n\nEach of the branch libraries contains technology services and facilities. The majority are in the main branch, including computer labs and training units. There is a specialized computer lab for students with disabilities and designated areas software use and digital media. The Research and Learning Commons provide students with support and tutoring with research, writing and mathematics.\nThere is also an online training platform which provides information about upcoming bibliographic and technology instruction courses.\nAccording to Elly Amani Gamukama, the systems administrator at the main library, “the university has made it a policy that every first year student must go through a computer course. We are aiming at reaching the international standard which is 1 computer per 50 students. Starting next year, all students will undergo training in the use of the available databases and other library resources that will be compulsory and carrying credit”.\n\nThe libraries of Makerere University received a $650K grant in 2001 for the duration of four years. The project goal was to “make significant contribution to equitable improvement of the academic standards of Makerere University, with a priority to science-based and gender disciplines”. Specific objectives included the creation of an interlibrary loan program with library partners and other academic libraries, to increase the collection in specific areas, minimize book theft and loss and hire and retrain staff.\nThe implementation of an Electronic Document Delivery Service, Science Citation Index and book safety system resulted from the grant. Approximately 5,000 books relating to the fields of science and gender were added to the collection. Funding also purchased computers and established an information literacy program for students, faculty and staff. The project is ongoing and received an additional $400K grant in 2004 to develop an automation process beginning with the main library.\n\nThe Department for Research Cooperation (SAREC) at the Swedish International Development Cooperation Agency provided the library with almost $1 million to build ICT structure, create a PHD program for library staff, increase training and purchase subscriptions to electronic journals and licenses. This also created a partnership with a variety of university libraries in Sweden to share practices, training and education.\n\nThe Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation has used a variety of non-governmental organizations to support development in Uganda through the improvement of academic services at the university. The library recently received a $200K grant to support an administrative computing project.\n\nLaunched in 2003, the DATAD is part of the Association of African Universities program to manage the collection, organization and dissemination of dissertations and theses. Partially sponsored by the Ford Foundation and Rockefeller Foundation, this is the largest collection of African scholarly work in the world. Some of the collection has been digitized and is available at http://www.aau.org/?q=datad.\n\nThe library is in the process of digitizing its collection for access through MakLIBIS, the university’s online public access catalog (OPAC). This electronic database will replace its existing print indexes. The project also includes digitizing photographs and scanning archival material to make the rare collection more accessible.\n\nMakerere University is an institutional repository which collects, organizes and allows retrieval of scholarly articles and books, theses and dissertations, conference proceedings and technical reports in an electronic format. The library uses DSpace technology to work in conjunction with the Open Archives Initiative. All researchers can submit content and copyright is according to either the publishing body or the content owner.\nThe depository contains an approximate 2.000 titles, over 2,382 sound recordings and 1,907 files of print materials. The digital library has undergone various challenges; including copyright issues, inadequate skills, low bandwidth, out of date equipment and inadequate funding.\n"}
{"id": "9527991", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9527991", "title": "Math Field Day", "text": "Math Field Day\n\nMath Field Day is a name for various mathematics competitions, including a team competition in Orange County, California and an individual competition in West Virginia. The remainder of this article is about the West Virginia competition.\n\nThe West Virginia Math Field Day is the largest individual mathematics competition ranging from grades 4-12 held in West Virginia. In 4th-9th grade, students compete within their own grade. In 10th, 11th, and 12th grades, students compete within all of the grades mentioned. The West Virginia Council of Teachers of Mathematics are avid supporters of Math Field Day, and created it to spur students' curiosity in mathematics.\n\nThere are 8 regions created from the 55 counties of the state. The counties of each region are \n\n\nThe levels of competition in Math Field Day are outlined below. In the event of a county containing all of the students in a particular grade level in one school, the first stage of the competition is that of the county level.\n\nSchool-Math Field Day begins at the school level. In 4th, 5th, 6th 7th, 8th, and 9th grades, each school is allowed to send a \"team\" of four students from each grade to the county competition. In 10th, 11th, and 12th grades, the top ten students proceed to county.\n\nCounty-From the county competition, the top four students from each grade 4th-9th are eligible to attend their region's Math Field Day. In 10th, 11th and 12th grades, the top ten students proceed to their region's Math Field Day.\n\nRegion-As in the county level, the top three students from each grade 4-9 will proceed to the state competition. Also, the top ten students from grades 10-12 will proceed to the state Math Field Day.\n\nState-Twenty-four students from each grade 4-9 compete at the state competition, and eighty students from grades 10-12. The top five placing students from each grade 4-9 will receive an award, and here the competition ends for them. In grades 10-12, though, it continues. The top fifteen students will make up West Virginia's American Regions Mathematics League(ARML) team. The next top 15 scoring individuals will be the alternates for the team.\n\nNationals (for 10th-12th only)-The ARML test is administered at three locations. West Virginia takes the test at Pennsylvania State University. Here, students compete in both individual and team rounds, though there are significantly more team-oriented rounds than individual ones. Last year, West Virginia competed in Division B, and placed 66th of the 79 teams who competed in this competition.\n\nMath Field Day also occurs in PUSD of Pasadena California.\n\nSchool:math of eleventh\n\"Written Test\" – This first section of the test counts for the majority of a competitor's points. Each student is given 45 minutes to complete 40 multiple-choice questions without a calculator. Each question is worth 10 points, so the maximum a student can get is 400 points. Usually, students get at near perfect scores on these tests.\n\n\"Mental Math Computation\" – The second section of the test is mental math. It comprises two sections: mental math estimation and mental math exact. For the mental math estimation portion, students are shown a problem on a projector screen or flashcards. They are then given 20 seconds to answer the question. Students are not allowed any scrap paper and are also not allowed any mark-outs on the answer sheet to prevent cheating. Student guesses within 10% of the actual answer are recorded correct. There are 10 questions on this section, each worth 10 points. \nThe second part of the mental math portion is mental math exact. Students are read a question two times and must answer the question in 20 seconds. Again, no mark-outs are allowed on the answer sheet and no scrap paper is allowed. Like the mental estimation portion, there are 10 questions, each worth 4 points. The mental math section usually can be counted on to break up ties.\n\nCounty:\n\nThe format of the county competition is almost exactly a duplicate of the school competition, except that in addition to these the Written Test and Mental Math Computation, students in grades 4–9 take part in a Quantity Estimation component as well.\n\n\"Quantity Estimation\" – This additional section does not add to the total score of a competitor. Students are allowed to see and hold a bag of candy for around 20 seconds, and must guess the weight in grams of the bag. Previously, students had to guess how many pieces of candy were in the bag, but since scores were so close on this section, it was changed to grams. This section is used to break a tie if scores in both the Written Test and Mental Math Computation are equal.\n\nRegion:\n\nAt the regional level,in grades 4–8, students take part in a Physical Estimation section, and students in 9th grade are administered a Short Answer section. Also, the Written Test now has 50 questions, with students being allotted one hour to complete the test.\n\n\"Physical Estimation\" – This section is said to be the hardest portion of all the tests administered. Students in grades 4–8 are allowed to look and touch an object for around 20 seconds. They then have to guess one physical property of the object, such as length, width, circumference, or area. Students are not allowed a calculator during this portion.\n\n\"Short Answer\" – This section is identical to the Target Round in MathCounts. Students in grade 9 are administered four rounds of two questions, and are allotted 5 minutes to complete each round of questions. The difficulty level of the questions varies from an easy question that might have been on the Written Test to questions that take the vast majority of the time to solve.\n\nState:\n\nAgain, the Written Test and Mental Math Computation portions are administered, as are Physical Estimation and Short Answer. In addition to the portions mentioned, a Math Relay section is added.\n\n\"Math Relay\" – The top three students representing each region work together as a team, though this portion is not scored. First, a student will solve a problem and then hand the answer to the next student. Using this answer, the second student will plug it in the question to solve it, and pass his or her answer on to the last student. This competition is to lower the tension at the state competition and to promote amiability between students.\n\nCompetition for grades 10-12 consists of any combination of the following:\n\n\nThe top 10 students from the county level proceed to regions. The top 10 students from the region represent the region at the State Math Field Day. The top 15 students at the state competition represent West Virginia at the American Regions Math League.\n\nThe following counties have formats that differ from those aforementioned at their own Math Field Day.\n\nBraxton County- 4th through 8th consist of the written test as well as the estimation/mental math. A mathematical game referred to as \"combo\" is played for fun but not added to the score of the contestants (Please contribute to the official rules of combo or the citation thereof). A separate reward is given to the highest scorer in a grade for combo. 9th consists of two written parts. One being the complete written test, the other being a portion given two questions at a time with a total of 8 questions.\n\nThe following is a list of past winners:\n\n"}
{"id": "22093397", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22093397", "title": "Minister of Education (South Africa)", "text": "Minister of Education (South Africa)\n\nThe Minister of Education used to be a Minister in the Cabinet of South Africa, with the responsibility of overseeing the Department of Education, including South Africa's schools and universities. \n\nOn 10 May 2009 newly elected president Jacob Zuma split the education portfolio into that of the Minister of Basic Education and that of the Minister of Higher Education and Training.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "21163596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21163596", "title": "Ministry of Education (Ghana)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Ghana)\n\nThe Ministry of Education (MOE) is a multiportfolio government ministry of Ghana, responsible for the government and management of Ghana's education. It is responsible for the national education curriculum, primarily instituted by Ghana Education Services, which is part of the Ministry.\n\nThe Ministry of Education was established under the Civil Service Law 327 and under the PNDC Law 1993 with the mandate to provide relevant education to all Ghanaians.\n\nThe Ministry's main offices are located in Accra.\n\nThe first Minister of Education in Ghana was J.B. Erzuah under the Nkrumah government in 1957.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57452179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57452179", "title": "Ministry of Education (Russia)", "text": "Ministry of Education (Russia)\n\nMinistry of Education of the Russian Federation, also called Ministry of Enlightenment of the Russian Federation () was established on 17 May 2018 after the split of the Ministry of Education and Science into two parts. It oversees school education and school accreditation in the Russian Federation. \nThe minister is Olga Vasilieva; earlier she was a head of the parent ministry. The agency has its headquarters in Tverskoy District, Central Administrative Okrug, Moscow. (The second child agency is the Ministry of Science and Higher Education.) \n\n\n"}
{"id": "37503128", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37503128", "title": "Neohumanism", "text": "Neohumanism\n\nNeohumanism is a holistic philosophical theory proposed by Prabhat Ranjan Sarkar to promote individual and collective progress. In this philosophy universalism plays a central role. It claims to elevate humanism to level of universalism. It claims not to have any grouping intention.\n\nSarkar detailed Neohumanism in his 1982 book \"The Liberation of Intellect: Neohumanism\".\n\nIn 1987, Sarkar published \"Neohumanism in a Nutshell\" (parts 1 and 2). They contain more discourses on Neohumanism, from various times that he discussed it.\n\nNeohumanism has three stages of development.\n\nList of Neohumanism's key concepts in alphabetical order.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, love for the Supreme (devotion) is the highest and most valuable treasure of humanity. It automatically results in universalism. However, neohumanism deems devotion to be a very tender inner asset, frequently assailed by materialism and other onslaughts from the external world. To preserve this treasure, Sarkar submits neohumanism as a practical philosophy that provides a protective fence for devotion by (1) establishing harmony between the spiritual and material worlds (2) providing perennial inspiration for the onward march of society.\n\nNeohumanism defines dogma as a mental prison. In other words, a dogma is any concept (belief) that one is expected to accept without question. Neohumanism perceives such conduct as fundamentally contrary to human nature, which includes a constant quest for mental expansion. Hence, the position of neohumanism on dogma is that all dogma must be eradicated.\n\nNeohumanism discourages both geosentiment and sociosentiment, because both tend to be injurious to society. However, neohumanism observes that, of the two, sociosentiment is more pernicious. Under the influence of sociosentiment, one group of people are driven to exploit a second group of people, that second group of people are driven to exploit a third group of people, and so on.\n\nAccording to Neohumanism, there are many types of exploitation, but exploitation always tends to come down to the economic plane. Economic exploitation manifests itself in two forms:\n\nA common name for psycho-economic exploitation is neocolonialism. However, Neohumanism observes that there is nothing new about psycho-economic exploitation. Wherever politico-economic exploitation takes place, it is invariably accompanied by psychic exploitation, the goal of which being to make the colonized people more docile. In other words, according to Neohumanism, in both politico-economic exploitation and psycho-economic exploitation, psychic exploitation is the foundation. Neohumanism asserts that when politico-economic exploitation is combined with psycho-economic exploitation, the likely social devastation is much greater.\n\nIn nature, there is a mainstream, and there is also positive and negative deviation from the mainstream. This is true for all species of living beings. Neohumanism classifies this deviation for plants, animals, and humans. When a living being substantially deviates from the mainstream in a constructive fashion, neohumanism describes that being as \"remarkable\", \"good\", or \"blissful\" (depending on whether the structure of that being is of a plant, animal, or human respectively). Conversely, when a living being substantially deviates from the mainstream in a destructive fashion, neohumanism describes that being as \"notorious\", \"bad\", or \"demonic\" (depending on whether the structure of that being is of a plant, animal, or human respectively). In respect to exploitation, our main concern is with human structures, specifically those human structures with genius that is exercised for destructive purpose, \"demons in human form/framework\" (DHFs).\n\nDHFs are geniuses, and so they are exceptionally devious. They know how to pander to and play on the geosentiments and sociosentiments of the common people, who rarely think deeply. But truth does not remain hidden forever. So whenever a particular abuse of geosentiment or sociosentiment is about to get exposed or that particular geosentiment or sociosentiment is likely to lose popularity, DHFs switch to a different sentiment. Neohumanism designates the adaptive art of conveniently switching sentiments as \"metamorphosed sentimental strategy\".\n\nAccording to neohumanism, DHFs wreak great havoc upon this world. Because of their adeptness at metamorphosed sentimental strategy, Sarkar also sometimes refers to DHFs as \"human chameleons\". Like chameleons, DHFs are often very difficult to spot. Nevertheless, Sarkar insists that it is the duty of all neohumanists to identify the DHFs. Not only must neohumanists identify the DHFs, but they must also expose them.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, the radius of geosentiment and sociosentiment may be relatively short or long. In other words, they both have a minimal and maximal expression (geosentiment or sociosentiment \"minimitis\" and \"maximitis\"). With respect to sociosentiment, its minimal expression (\"sociosentiment minimitis\") is the attraction felt toward one's nuclear family. That minimal sociosentiment may be extended to embrace a larger community, for example, a city, a state, a nation, an ethnicity, a religious group, and so on. When sociosentiment extends beyond nationalism and internationalism, theoretically embracing all human beings, that is \"sociosentiment maximitis\". According to Sarkar, general (or ordinary) humanism is essentially sociosentiment maximitis.\n\nNeohumanism is of the view that general or ordinary humanism is a distorted humanism that has done and is still doing harm in the world. According to neohumanism, in so far as humanism expanded sociosentiment, it was a positive trend; but in so far as it sets limits on the expansion of the underlying spirit of humanism, love, it has been and continues to be counterproductive.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, there is a tendency for general humanists to substitute pity for love. Sarkar said this type of pseudohumanism inevitably fosters intra-human conflict.\n\nNeohumanism rejects the classic definition of human being as \"rational animal\", which first appeared in Aristotle's \"Metaphysics\" insisting that human beings have characteristics distinct from animals. It considers human life to be an ideological flow, characterized by identification with and commitment to an ideology.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, the impetus (inspiration or motivation) for human movement - human dynamism - may be either of two conflicting principles: the principle of selfish pleasure (\"átma-sukha tattva\") or the principle of social equality (\"sama-samája tattva\").\n\nAccording to neohumanism, selfishness is a socially divisive mental ailment. Those who promote or accept the dogmas founded on the principle of selfish pleasure typically do so in order to secure their own vested interests.\n\nThe concept of egalitarianism has been in circulation for thousands of years. Over time, the concept has become broader and more sophisticated. Recently, various studies have been conducted with results that endorse the tremendous importance of having a more equitable society (see, for example, \"\" by Richard G. Wilkinson and Kate Pickett). Neohumanism promotes egalitarianism by asserting the principle of social equality and rejecting all dogma and superstition. According to neohumanism, realization of the principle of social equality is a natural consequence of spiritual practice (especially meditation founded on yogic morality, Yama-Niyama). However, realization of this principle is not the final stage of neohumanism, because application of a principle is somewhat mechanical. In the final stage of neohumanism, the human being's life is transformed into a blissful mission of love (see the third stage of neohumanism).\n\nMany general humanists support the concept of internationalism. Neohumanism observes that internationalism does not even rise to the standard of ordinary humanism. Indeed, it poses the same sort of risk to global peace as nationalism. Sarkar explains the problem as follows:\n\nFrom the perspective of neohumanism, the League of Nations could not prevent World War II, and the United Nations cannot prevent a World War III. Only a world government could ensure peace on this planet.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, the major cause of mental disorder is a lack of harmony between the rhythm and speed of the inner world and the outer world. In modern times, humanity has made great progress in the intellectual sphere. But, for most people, the speed of that intellectual progress is not well reflected in the external world (for example, a rising standard of living). Similarly, the patterns of thought for most persons (their internal psychic rhythm) is quite different from the external rhythm of the objective world. These disparities naturally cause clash, and that clash is felt even more in the psychic realm than the physical realm. Neohumanism asserts that this is the reason why many human beings lose their mental balance.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, in addition to various activities like thinking and remembering, mind has three modes of functioning: \"instinct\", \"sentiment\", and \"rationality\".\n\n\nProtopsychospirituality (also known as \"protospiritualistic mentality\") is a type of thinking whereby one remembers that everything and everyone with whom one comes in contact is a manifestation of Supreme Consciousness (\"Parama Brahma\"). Before and after doing any action, if one remembers that all existential phenomena emanate from and return to the Supreme (Cosmic) Existential Nucleus, a benevolent mode of thinking naturally arises within the mind. In that state of mind, one cannot contemplate doing harm to others. Neohumanism asserts that a protospiritualistic mentality is essential for identifying some exceptionally devious exploiters. Identification becomes possible when the person with a protospiritualistic mentality notes that her/his benevolent mode of thinking is not reflected in the actions of the exploiter.\n\nCulture generally refers to the refinements in human expressions. Everyone eats. However, to eat only after washing one's hands is commonly deemed to be part of the \"culture\" of eating. According to neohumanism, human culture is one, but there are variations in its expression. For example, humans, being social creatures, typically like to communicate; but, depending on locality, different languages are used. Neohumanism observes that whenever one group of people has sought to economically exploit another group of people, the former group simultaneously attempted to destroy the local cultural expressions of the latter group. This has been done through the imposition of \"pseudoculture\". Examples of the imposition of pseudoculture are the forced acceptance of an imperialist ruler's language, religious dogma, style of dress, style of eating, political forms, historical perspectives, and artistic expressions.\n\nPseudoculture is imposed by various means from brute force to the mass media to public education. Often, the standard of refinement in pseudoculture is less than that which it replaces. But regardless of the standard of refinement, the end result is that the cultural backbone of the colonized society is broken. Psychologically crippled, the colonized people lose the will and the power to protest against exploitation. Instead, they tend to deem it just and proper to hand over much of their national wealth to the exploiters.\n\nPhilosophers have defined rationality in various ways. Some of those definitions could equally apply to animals or even plants. Neohumanism offers a new and precise definition of rationality that calls for a standard of mentality that is not discernible in any species other than human beings. According to neohumanism, rationality (also known as \"rationalistic mentality\") is a three-stage process of discrimination that begins with adequate study to assimilate all relevant facts, proceeds to analyze the pros and cons of an action, and ends with a decision in favor of only a \"blissful auxiliary\" (practical action that furthers the welfare of all).\n\nThroughout history, religion has had a domineering influence on the human mind. According to neohumanism, all religions are based on dogma, and the propagation of that religious dogma has been instrumental in the creation of satellite groups. Some religious persons and priests propagate the damaging dogma of religion unwittingly. When such persons are made to understand their mistake, some admit their error and rectify themselves. Others, however, refuse to do so, fearing that the admission of error would injure their prestige. The latter group of persons thereby join the ranks of conscious agents of injustice.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, two types of sentiment are common to human beings (in both an individual and collective sense): geosentiment and sociosentiment. Both sentiments have a minimal and a maximal expression (geosentiment or sociosentiment \"minimitis\" and \"maximitis\"). As with any sentiment, both geosentiment and sociosentiment may have good uses, but there is also great risk of harm (harm to others and harm to oneself). Neohumanism observes that those who would exploit other human beings for their own selfish gain (exploiters) typically employ these two types of sentiment, often shifting or transforming sentiments whenever convenient.\n\nGeosentiment is the attraction felt toward one's own home, city, or country. Its minimal expression (\"geosentiment minimitis\") is love for one's home (house, homestead, or the like). The maximal expression of geosentiment (\"geosentiment maximitis\") is love for one's country. In theory, one might feel love for the entire planet, but today such an expression of geosentiment would be very rare, possibly non-existent. In the future, when interplanetary travel becomes commonplace, geosentiment maximitis may expand.\n\nGeosentiment presents in many forms: geopolitics, geoeconomics, geopatriotism, georeligion, and so on. For example, georeligion would associate a religion or a religious group with a specific territory. So, the belief that God has granted a particular territory to a particular group of people is an example of georeligion. Similarly, the belief that prayer must be carried out facing in a specific direction is another expression of georeligion. Such type of beliefs (geosentiments) may prove harmless or harmful, depending on circumstances. According to neohumanism, the potential for harm in geosentiment can be curbed through the cultivation of a rationalistic mentality.\n\nSociosentiment is the attraction felt toward one's own family, nation, or other social grouping (linguistic, religious, political, and so on). Its minimal expression (\"sociosentiment minimitis\") is the attraction felt toward one's nuclear family. That minimal sociosentiment may be extended to embrace a larger community, for example, a city, a state, a nation, an ethnicity, a religious group, and so on. When sociosentiment extends beyond nationalism and internationalism, theoretically embracing all human beings, that is \"sociosentiment maximitis\". According to Sarkar, general (or ordinary) humanism is essentially sociosentiment maximitis.\n\nSociosentiment presents itself in many forms: sociopolitics, socioeconomics, sociopatriotism, socioreligion, and so on. For example, sociopatriotism might express itself as jingoism with declarations like \"my country, right or wrong\" or \"my country over all others\". Socioeconomics might express itself in the form of an imperialist attempt to create colonies or satellite states.\n\nCompared to geosentiment, sociosentiment has the capacity to do - and has done - much greater harm in the world. Sociosentiment can also be more difficult to recognize. As such, rationality might not be adequate to offset the dangers of sociosentiment. To overcome sociosentiment, neohumanism prescribes an additional tool, protopsychospirituality.\n\nNeohumanism extends the concept of \"society\" to include all living beings. Unlike most other theories, past or present, neohumanism distinguishes between human society and society (in its broadest or universal sense).\n\nIn respect to the universal society, the stance of neohumanism corresponds to the spirit of the third fundamental principle of PROUT. The physical, mental, and spiritual potential of each and every living being should be developed to the maximum. This means that humans should not only respect and protect the rights of the non-human creatures but also actively promote their welfare and happiness.\n\nRegarding human society, neohumanism asserts that no one should be left to lag behind. In a healthy human society, no one should suffer from oppression. Every problem - big or small, individual or collective - should be taken as a problem of the entire humanity. So, for example, neohumanism is claimed to oppose any form of social discrimination based on race or sex, and support women's rights. Neohumanism makes men responsible for acting in support of those rights.\n\nThe concern of neohumanism for social justice extends even to relatively minor but intractable matters. So, for example, though it pertains only to grammar, the male bias of the English language should not continue. When the pronoun 'he' can mean 'he' or 'she' and when 'man' can mean 'man' or 'woman', should not the same be the case with 'she' and 'woman'? Either English must have neutral words or the meaning of existing words must change. Though such type of change generally takes a while to implement, neohumanism insists that it be done.\n\nAs with PROUT, neohumanism views social progress as a condition in which the welfare and happiness of the entire society is increased. Neohumanism considers the individual and the society to be an inalienable concomitance. Unlike other philosophical theories that would satisfice or allegedly optimize social well-being through principles like the lesser of two evils principle or the greatest good for the greatest number, neohumanism measures progress on the basis of improvements in the poorest sectors of society. According to neohumanism, what is genuinely good for the individual is also good for the society; and what is genuinely good for the society is also good for the individual.\n\nNeohumanism distinguishes two ways in which social progress may be effected: evolution and revolution.\n\n\nOf the two systems, neohumanism greatly prefers revolution.\n\nNeohumanism distinguishes four types of people who take a stance on the subject of social change: reactionaries, reformists, vocal revolutionaries, and revolutionaries.\n\n\nAccording to neohumanism, revolutionaries are the true well-wishers of society. As such, neohumanism asserts that only the revolutionaries can effect significant social progress.\n\nNeohumanism's concept of universalism is non-religious. It is a type of love that extends to all beings of this universe, animate and even inanimate. From the perspective of Neohumanism, such a viewpoint is the ultimate outcome of the principle of 'social equality and 'protopsychospirituality'.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, the human-centered utilitarian approach of general humanism is problematic in that it allows the possibility of cruelty to animals and plants. Such type of cruelty inevitably fosters inter-creature clash. Neohumanism extends this analysis by observing that cruelty has a tendency to become habitual. In other words, what a human does today to an animal, that same human may do tomorrow to another human being. Hence, according to neohumanism, general humanism may also foster intra-human clash. To offset the anthropic bias of general humanism and to reduce the potential for conflict, neohumanism posits two types of value: utility value and existential value.\n\nAccording to neohumanism, until now, people have tended to think primarily in terms of utility value, typically the utility that another entity has for oneself or one's nation. So, for example, when horses were a primary means of transportation, the utility value of horses to human beings was very great. Today, with more efficient and comfortable means of transportation, horses have lost most of their utility value for humans. Accordingly, Sarkar argues that the status of horses in modern society is much reduced. But neohumanism insists that horses also have \"existential value\". The existential value of a horse to itself is no less than the existential value of a human being to itself. In terms of the existential value one holds for one's own existence, all beings are said to be equal. Neohumanism would give greater importance to this existential value than to utility value. Sarkar said: \"Who says that those creatures who have lost their immediate utility value have no right to exist? No one has the moral right to say this.\"\n\n\nIn a recent book, Helen Crovetto asserts that there is a \"dramatic\" number of correlations between Ananda Marga and Mark Juergensmeyer's \"description of religious groups inclined toward terrorism\". Crovetto mentions here the imagery of \"cosmic war\" that appears in Sarkar's writings, and Crovetto repeatedly references language that seems to \"satanize\" opponents, for example, the term \"demon in human form\" that is part of the terminology of neohumanism. After considerable analysis, Crovetto concludes that it is probably more appropriate to describe the followers of Sarkar as \"revolutionary\" rather than \"terrorist\". As such, Crovetto classifies them as \"revolutionary sociospiritual \"utopians\"\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1602010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1602010", "title": "Of Pandas and People", "text": "Of Pandas and People\n\nOf Pandas and People: The Central Question of Biological Origins is a controversial 1989 (2nd edition 1993) school-level textbook written by Percival Davis and Dean H. Kenyon and published by the Texas-based Foundation for Thought and Ethics (FTE). The textbook endorses the pseudoscientific concept of intelligent design—namely that life shows evidence of being designed by an intelligent agent which is not named specifically in the book, although proponents understand that it refers to the Christian God. They present various polemical arguments against the scientific theory of evolution.\n\nA third edition of the book was published in 2007 under the title The Design of Life: Discovering Signs of Intelligence in Biological Systems.\n\nThe book argues that the origin of new organisms is \"in an immaterial cause: in a blueprint, a plan, a pattern, devised by an intelligent agent\". The text remains non-committal on the age of the Earth, commenting that some \"take the view that the earth's history can be compressed into a framework of thousands of years, while others adhere to the standard old earth chronology\". The book raises a number of objections to the theory of evolution, such as the alleged lack of transitional fossils, gaps in the fossil record and the apparent sudden appearance \"ex nihilo\" of \"already intact fish with fins and scales, birds with feathers, beaks, and wings, etc\". The book makes no explicit reference to the identity of the intelligent designer implied in the \"blueprint\" metaphor.\n\nKevin Padian, a biologist at University of California, Berkeley reviewed the book and called it \"a wholesale distortion of modern biology\". Michael Ruse, a professor of philosophy and biology, reviewed it, calling the book \"worthless and dishonest\". Gerald Skoog, Professor of Education at Texas Tech University, wrote in his 1989 review that the book reflected a creationist strategy to focus their \"attack on evolution\", interpreting the \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" ruling as though it legitimised \"teaching a variety of scientific theories\", but the book did not contain a scientific theory or model to \"balance\" against evolution, and was \"being used as a vehicle to advance sectarian tenets and not to improve science education\".\n\nThere are currently two editions of the book, the 1989 first edition edited by Charles Thaxton, a chemist who earned his PhD in physical chemistry from Iowa State University, and the 1993 second edition, which included a \"Note to Teachers\" by Mark D. Hartwig and Stephen C. Meyer. A third edition was retitled \"The Design of Life\". Jon Buell, the president of the Foundation for Thought and Ethics, said that the ruling in \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" that intelligent design was religious would make the textbook \"radioactive\" in public schools and would be \"catastrophic\" for the marketability of both the (then) present (second) edition and the (then) forthcoming third edition, citing possible losses of around US$500,000. The renaming of the book is viewed by some as way of mitigating this and at the same time distancing the book from past controversy.\n\nFor the 1993 edition, Michael Behe wrote a chapter on blood clotting, presenting arguments which he later presented in very similar terms as \"irreducible complexity\" in a chapter in his 1996 book \"Darwin's Black Box\". Behe later agreed that they were essentially the same when he defended intelligent design at the Dover Trial.\n\nThe book is published by the Foundation for Thought and Ethics (FTE), a non-profit organization founded by ordained minister Jon Buell in Richardson, Texas, in 1980 as a tax-exempt charitable and educational organization, with articles of incorporation which stated that its purpose includes \"proclaiming, publishing, preaching [and] teaching…the Christian Gospel and understanding of the Bible and the light it sheds on the academic and social issues of the day\". In the original Internal Revenue Service tax-exemption submission, Buell described the foundation as a \"Christian think-tank\" and stated that the organization's first activity would be the editing of a book \"showing the scientific evidence for creation\". Co-author Percival Davis later acknowledged that religious concerns underlay the writing of the book; in a November 1994 interview with the \"Wall Street Journal\", he commented: \"Of course my motives were religious. There's no question about it.\"\n\nIn 1981, the FTE advertised in a creationist newspaper, seeking authors for a textbook that would be \"sensitively written to present both evolution and creation\". Their first production was \"Unlocking the secrets: The Mystery of Life's Origin\" by creationist Charles Thaxton (a chemist), Walter L. Bradley, and Roger L. Olsen. \nIn this book, Thaxton presented arguments for \"Special Creation by a creator beyond the cosmos\", and described Special Creation as holding \"that the \"source that produced life\" was intelligent\".\n\nThaxton approached Dean H. Kenyon to write the foreword. When \"Mystery\" was ready to go to the printers late in 1982, work began on the textbook, written by Kenyon and Percival Davis with Thaxton as editor.\n\nA draft dated 1983 was entitled \"Creation Biology Textbook Supplements\", and was stated in the language of creationism, including the following statement:\n\nA 1986 draft with the title \"Biology and Creation\" included a similar statement, and defined \"creation\" using the classic creationist concept of \"abrupt appearance\":\nA 1987 draft entitled \"Biology and Origins\" made only minor grammatical alterations to these statements. \nThe FTE sought a publisher for the book, sending a Boston firm a prospectus which indicated that the draft had been sent to school districts for testing as well as to prospective publishers. In the prospectus, Buell stated that a \"new independent scientific poll... shows almost half of the nation's biology teachers include some creation in their view of biological origins. Many more who don't still believe it should be included in science curriculum.\" Additionally, he enclosed projections showing expected revenue of over $6.5 million in five years based upon \"modest expectations for the market.\" If creationist teaching in schools was explicitly permitted by the Supreme Court of the United States in the \"Louisiana \"Balanced Treatment Act\"\" case that was then ongoing, the FTE's founder Jon Buell wrote that \"you can throw out these projections, the nationwide market would be explosive!\"\n\nThe \"Louisiana \"Balanced Treatment Act\"\" case — \"Edwards v. Aguillard\" — was decided by the Supreme Court in 1987. The court determined that teaching creationism in public schools violated the Establishment Clause of the United States constitution, but that alternative scientific theories could be taught. While the decision ruled out any return to teaching traditional Young Earth creationism in science classes, it did offer an opening for those willing to recast creationist doctrine in the language of science.\n\nIn 1987 a further draft of the book was produced with the new title \"Of Pandas and People\", which still had the definition \"creation means that various forms of life began abruptly\", and used the term \"creationists\":\nThe outcome of the case prompted significant editorial changes to the book. Dean H. Kenyon had presented an affidavit to the court in which he defined \"creation science\" as meaning \"origin through abrupt appearance in complex form\", which did \"not include as essential parts... catastrophism, a world-wide flood, a recent inception of the earth or life... the concept of kinds, or any concepts from Genesis or other religious texts\", but this attempt to re-define creation science did not succeed in the \"Edwards\" case. Both authors had previously written young Earth creationist publications referring to biological design: a 1967 book co-written by Percival Davis referred to \"design according to which basic organisms were created\", and in a 1984 article as well as in his affidavit to Edwards v. Aguillard, Kenyon defended creation science by stating that \"biomolecular systems require intelligent design and engineering know-how\". According to the Discovery Institute's account published in December 2005, Charles Thaxton as editor of the \"Pandas\" book needed a new term after the Supreme Court case, and found it in a phrase he \"picked up from a NASA scientist – intelligent design\". He thought: \"That's just what I need, it's a good engineering term….. it seemed to jibe... And I went back through my old copies of \"Science\" magazine and found the term used occasionally.\" In a new draft of \"Pandas\" prepared shortly after the 1987 Supreme Court ruling, approximately 150 uses of the root word \"creation\", such as \"creationism\" and \"creationist\", were systematically changed to refer to \"intelligent design\". The definition remained essentially the same, with \"intelligent design\" substituted for \"creation\", and \"intelligent creator\" changed to \"intelligent agency\":\nThe term \"creationists\" was changed to \"design proponents\", but in one case the beginning and end of the original word \"creationists\" were accidentally retained, so that \"creationists\" became \"cdesign proponentsists\".\n\nFTE founder Jon Buell says that the word \"creationism\" was a \"placeholder term\" whose definition \"changed to include a religious context after the draft was written, so the writers changed the word.\" However, the proof that intelligent design was creationism re-labeled played a significant part in the Kitzmiller trial, and \"cdesign proponentsists\" has been described as \"the missing link between creationism and intelligent design.\"\n\n\"Of Pandas and People\" was published in 1989 by \"Haughton Publishing Co.\" This was the assumed name of a Mesquite, Texas, printing firm, Horticultural Printers, Inc., which mainly served the agricultural industry and had no other books in print, nor any in-house writers or science advisors. (It should not be confused with the well-known children's and school textbook publisher, Houghton Mifflin). Printing costs were met by donations to the FTE, whose members were told in a December 1988 fundraising letter that donors would receive an enameled box with a panda on the lid as a gift. The box would \"become a pleasant reminder to pray for our work\", as Buell put it.\n\nFollowing the book's publication in 1989, the FTE embarked on a lengthy campaign to get the book into use in schools across the United States. Previous creationist efforts to dilute or overturn the teaching of evolutionary theory had relied largely on a \"top-down\" approach of pro-creationist legislators passing laws to regulate science education in schools. However, these had repeatedly failed to survive court challenges. The FTE took a \"bottom-up\" approach instead, mobilizing local Christian conservative groups to push school boards and individual teachers to adopt the book and also to get themselves elected to school boards and local educational committees.\n\nBuell told supporters:\nThe FTE provided publicity materials to its supporters to assist them in promoting the adoption of the book. These included a video of testimonials by pro-ID scientists and a promotional script, including \"lines to take\" on contentious issues.\n\nFor instance, on the controversial issue of ID's perceived overlap with religion, the FTE's suggested response read:\nThe FTE was aided in this effort by \"traditional\" creationist organizations such as the Institute for Creation Research, which sells \"Of Pandas and People\" through its own online shop and catalogue. The book was explicitly marketed by retailers as a creationist work; in the 2005 \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" case, donated copies of the book were accompanied by a catalog which listed \"Pandas\" under \"creation science\".\n\nDiscovery Institute Senior Fellows William A. Dembski and Jonathan Wells are the listed authors of this edition, presented as a sequel. The preface of \"The Design of Life\" is by Jon A. Buell, president of the Foundation for Thought and Ethics, which is the publisher of \"The Design of Life\".\n\nThe book includes 100 pages of footnotes and notes.\n\nThe book tries to address some novel areas. For example, it states that intelligent design does not require miracles or the supernatural, but still does not rely on \"materialistic explanations\". The book states that \"Supernatural explanations invoke miracles and therefore are not properly part of science\", and that \"[e]xplanations that call on intelligent causes require no miracles but cannot be reduced to materialistic explanations.\"\n\nAlso, the book tries to explain away the loss of intelligent design in the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover\" decision: \"In the end, not any court rulings or public policies or Hollywood films, will decide the merit of intelligent design.\"\n\nA blog associated with the book began on December 17, 2007.\n\nDembski wrote in his blog, \"Uncommondescent\", that \"The Design of Life\" had 9 five star reviews, and only a single one star review on Amazon.com on December 5, 2007. California State University emeritus professor Mark Perakh has written that he believes Dembski and his associates at the Discovery Institute are deceitfully manipulating the Amazon.com review system to promote their own work and denigrate the work of their adversaries.\n\nThe Discovery Institute's blog, \"Evolution News and Views\", also gave the book a positive. Evolution News and Views says that \"The Design of Life\" describes how evolution cannot account for the necks of giraffes, how the transition from reptiles to mammals took place, how whales evolved from land animals, and how all evolutionary explanations of the bacterial flagellum are fallacious. In addition, the review asserts that this book exposes substantial holes in abiogenesis and common descent, as well as refuting SETI objections to intelligent design and discussions of the shortcomings of ocular design.\n\nDembski was interviewed about the book by Focus on the Family's Citizenlink in December, 2007. Dembski described the book as accessible, but noted that it also includes a CD and endnotes that delve deeper into the technical issues. Dembski said the book corrects many of the misrepresentations and biased descriptions of intelligent design that have appeared. Dembski also revealed that he believes that the \"intelligent designer\" is the Christian god.\n\nMany of the book's arguments are identical to those raised by creationists, which have been dismissed by the scientific community. A comparison of an early draft of \"Of Pandas and People\" to a later 1987 draft showed how in hundreds of instances the word \"creationism\" had been replaced by \"intelligent design\" and \"creationist\" replaced by \"intelligent design proponent\", while \"creator\" was replaced by \"agency\" or \"designer\". In his 2007 book \"Monkey Girl\" Edward Humes describes how this change was made after Edwards v. Aguillard settled that teaching \"Creation Science\" in public schools was unconstitutional.\n\nScientific and education professional groups have strongly criticized \"Of Pandas and People\" and have opposed its use in schools. Science educator Gerald Skoog described it as \"a vehicle to advance sectarian tenets and not to improve science education\" and said \"This book has no potential to improve science education and student understanding of the natural world.\"\n\nA review of \"Of Pandas and People\" by paleontologist Kevin Padian of the University of California at Berkeley for the National Center for Science Education's \"Bookwatch Reviews\" in 1989 called the book a \"wholesale distortion of modern biology\", and says that FTE's writers had misrepresented such topics as the Cambrian explosion, the history of birds, and the concept of homology. Padian described the treatment of homology in \"Of Pandas and People\" as \"shameful\", citing:\n\nPadian's conclusion was: \"It is hard to say what is worst in this book: the misconceptions of its sub-text, the intolerance for honest science, or the incompetence with which science is presented. In any case, teachers should be warned against using this book.\"\n\nThe FTE's activist approach has produced heated controversies in several US states as Christian conservatives and school boards sought to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\" in public schools, against the opposition of mainstream scientists, educators and civil liberties organizations. This has caused several notable controversies, culminating in the \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\" case in Pennsylvania in which the contents and antecedents of the book came under scrutiny.\n\nIn Alabama, 11,800 people signed a petition which was presented to Alabama's school textbook committee, endorsing intelligent design and urging the adoption of \"Of Pandas and People\" as a class textbook. In January 1990 the book was withdrawn from consideration by its publishers, the Haughton Publishing Co., who said that they \"backed off because they weren't given [the] chance to defend [the] book.\"\n\nBy 1990, a public campaign was mounted in Idaho to urge the state school board to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\". However, the book was rejected by the board.\n\nIn March 1990, the school board in Pinellas County, Florida, rejected an appeal by a retired minister \"to adopt the textbook \"Of Pandas and People\" that would offer a creationist's view\".\nIn January 1993, right-wing members of the school board of Vista, California, sought to include \"Of Pandas and People\" in the school science curriculum. A teachers' committee voted unanimously to reject the book saying it lacked scientific merit. The board eventually backed away from plans to require creation science to be taught in science classes.\n\nIn September 1994, residents of Louisville, Ohio, voted 121-2 to urge the local school board to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\". Creationism had been taught openly in district schools until a lawsuit forced a change of policy in 1993. In the wake of the decision, the district was given 150 copies of the book.\n\nIn October 1994, school officials in St. Lucie County, Florida, distributed copies of the book to every high school and one middle school in the county to be reviewed by teachers and principals for use as a possible supplement for science classes. The response from teachers was negative but county school officials still planned to distribute the books to school libraries so teachers and students could use it as a resource. According to the local Civic, Business and Ministry Coalition, copies of the book were purchased by the Coalition from the Institute for Creation Research in San Diego, California, and were sent to school administrators on the grounds that it was \"a good, science-based text appropriate for school children\". The Coalition was reported to have met administrators on several occasions to promote creation science. However, the county school board did not find out about the matter until January 1995.\n\nThe \"Wall Street Journal\" reported in November that according to the Foundation for Thought and Ethics, 22,500 copies of the book had been printed and teachers and curriculum buyers in 48 states had bought it. Fifteen school districts had ordered quantities large enough to indicate classroom use, but had not been identified \"for fear of embroiling them in controversy\".\n\nIn January 1995, conservative members of the Plano, Texas, school trust proposed to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\" as a supplement to the existing curriculum course materials. The district school board unanimously voted to bar the book's acquisition following an outcry from local residents, many of whom attended the board's meeting wearing buttons with a red \"X\" over a panda. Two of the proponents of the book subsequently lost their seats on the Plano school board.\n\nIn a 1996 \"Time\" magazine article it was reported that \"school boards in Washington State and Ohio\" were considering whether to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\" as a school textbook.\n\nIn April 1997, the school board of Chesapeake, Virginia, purchased copies of the book for the libraries of each of the district's 15 high schools and middle schools. The acquisition was made on the recommendation of School Superintendent W. Randolph Nichols, but the board stated that the book was intended for use \"as a resource book, not as a science book\" and that it was not endorsing creationism.\n\nIn June 1999, the school district in Burlington, Washington, approved a local science teacher's proposal to use extracts from \"Of Pandas and People\" in the classroom \"so long as he balances it with enough support for teachings on evolution which he always included in his courses but about which he says he has doubts — especially in terms of the origin of the human race\". The decision followed an earlier demand by the American Civil Liberties Union, that the teacher, Roger DeHart, should cease his years-long practice of teaching intelligent design in his classes. He stated that he needed to counterbalance the inclusion of information that was \"at best wrong and at worst fraudulent\" in the standard textbooks used in Burlington schools.\n\nThat same year, another attempt to introduce \"Of Pandas and People\" into Idaho schools was reported to have been rejected by the state textbook committee.\n\nIn March 2000, the science curriculum director of the Kanawha County, West Virginia, school district selected \"Of Pandas and People\" as a textbook \"that presents Darwin's Theory of Evolution as theory, not fact\" following pressure from the local community and teachers. A committee of science teachers unanimously voted to purchase copies of the book, but ultimately decided to abandon the idea for fear of litigation. A Christian conservative legal group, the Thomas More Law Center, offered to represent the county for free if any litigation arose but its offer was rejected. A proposal to buy the book for school libraries was eventually rejected by the school board, though a conservative member of the board pledged to pay for at least 14 copies out of her own pocket.\n\nIn Pratt, Kansas, the local school board voted to remove any mention of macroevolution, the age of the Earth, and the origin of the Universe from science curriculum, but rejected a bid to adopt \"Of Pandas and People\" for educational purposes.\n\n\"Of Pandas and People\" became the focus of a litigation and controversy in Dover, Pennsylvania in 2004 after the Dover Area School Board endorsed it as a reference book. Perhaps inevitably, the ensuing court case was dubbed the \"Panda Trial\" by the media in an allusion to the famous \"Monkey Trial\" of 1925.\n\nAlthough the board did not actually purchase the book, 60 copies were donated to the district by an anonymous party. It was revealed in court that a school board member asked his church for donations for the purchase of those books although that board member had denied all knowledge of the source of donation in an earlier deposition. Amid an international controversy, the board also became the first in the US to promote the teaching of intelligent design in the classroom, sparking a lawsuit, \"Kitzmiller v. Dover Area School District\", by the American Civil Liberties Union and other plaintiffs.\n\nThe FTE became involved in the Dover controversy when it became clear that \"Of Pandas and People\" would be a major focus of litigation. The foundation filed a motion to join the defending side in June 2005, arguing that a finding that intelligent design was religious would destroy FTE's ability to market its textbooks within the district, and affect its ability to market the textbooks to any public school in the United States. Had the motion been granted, the FTE would have become a co-defendant with the Dover Area School Board, and able to bring its own lawyers and expert witnesses to the case. However, William A. Dembski, co-author of the new \"Pandas\" edition, and the Discovery Institute withdrew from the case. The Judge told the defendants: \"To me it looks like Mr. Dembski was dropped as an expert because he didn't want to produce, or because his employer didn't want to produce the manuscript [on subpoena to the court] of \"The Design of Life\".\"\n\nIn his decision on the motion, Judge John E. Jones III ruled that FTE was not entitled to intervene in the case because its motion to intervene was not timely, describing FTE's excuses for not trying to become involved earlier as \"both unavailing and disingenuous\". Judge Jones also held that FTE failed to demonstrate that it has \"a significantly protectable interest in the litigation warranting intervention as a party\" and that its interests will not be adequately represented by the defendants.\n\nWhile FTE did not become a party Jon A. Buell, the director of FTE testified on July 14, 2005, at the Dover Trial. Buell denied having known about actions of the Thomas More Law Center to which the Judge said it \"strains credulity\".\n\nIn November 2005, eight of the nine members of the Dover school board were voted out of office and replaced with candidates who opposed the previous board's decision to introduce intelligent design and lay doubts on evolution.\n\nOn December 20, 2005, the US District Court ruled that intelligent design is not science and is essentially religious in nature, and the board's requirement endorsing intelligent design as an alternative to evolution in science classes, unconstitutional on the grounds that its inclusion violates the Establishment Clause of the First Amendment.\n\nThe judge in the Dover trial specifically referred to \"Pandas\" in his decision, stating:\n\nThe newly elected board unanimously rescinded the policy on January 3, 2006.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1233585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1233585", "title": "Partnership for Academic Competition Excellence", "text": "Partnership for Academic Competition Excellence\n\nThe Partnership for Academic Competition Excellence (PACE) is a United States based 501(c)(3) non-profit organization that promotes high school quiz bowl and runs the National Scholastic Championship (NSC), an end-of-year national tournament for high school quiz bowl teams. PACE was founded in 1996 by a group of quiz bowl players and coaches who were dissatisfied with the quality of high school quiz bowl at the time. The NSC has been run in the June of every year since 1998. Beyond running the NSC, PACE offers advice and staff assistance to high schools and colleges who run high school quiz bowl tournaments. PACE does not currently supply questions for regular season tournaments or offer a collegiate competition program, unlike NAQT or Questions Unlimited.\n\nIn addition to running a national tournament, PACE awards the Benjamin Cooper Academic Ambassador Award each year at the opening ceremony of the NSC. The award is chosen by PACE members to honor \"a high school academic competition team member, advisor, or organization whose character best promotes the spirit and honor of quiz bowl competition\". It is named for Ben Cooper, who, as the captain of the It's Academic quiz bowl team at Georgetown Day School, worked with the PACE founders to provide a player's perspective on the plans for the inaugural NSC. Ben Cooper died in an automobile accident just before the start of his senior year. In 2004, PACE expanded its recognition program to include a \"Young Ambassador\" Award to recognize individuals or recent alumni from high school or college quiz bowl programs for \"valuable and significant contributions to the high school academic competition community\".\n\nPACE runs the National Scholastic Championship, a tournament for high school quiz bowl teams. Teams that attend the PACE NSC are mainly from schools in the United States, with teams from Canada, and Singapore having also attended. Teams qualify by placing well at a PACE-certified tournament. There are three levels of qualifier events, with higher levels allowing qualified teams to register earlier. A number of teams can also qualify via a wild card bid. There is no limit to the number of teams from a single school that can qualify or attend. In order to qualify multiple teams from one school, multiple teams must concurrently qualify at the same tournament.\n\nThe tournament takes place over two days during the weekend. On Saturday, teams are grouped into pools for preliminary rounds and play a round robin within that group, then are regrouped for playoff rounds based on their win-loss record in their preliminary group. On Sunday, teams are again regrouped into \"superplayoff\" brackets. Usually, a final will be played between the top two teams, though specific circumstances can make a final match unnecessary. Following the final rounds, an All-Star game featuring the top individual scorers is played and the closing ceremony is held.\n\nEach round consists of two halves of ten tossups and ten bonuses. Tossups are worth 10 points for a correct answer, though 20 points may be awarded if they are answered early. Team are not penalized points. Bouncebacks are allowed for bonuses. In the event of a tie, three tossups with bonuses are read. If the score is still tied after this, a sudden death tossup will be read.\n\nFrom 1998 to 2009, the NSC used a slightly different gameplay format that was distinct from most other quiz bowl tournaments. The old format had three rounds with varying gameplay, the Related Tossup-Bonus round, the Category Quiz round, and the Stretch round.\n\nIn March 2009, PACE organized the second annual \"The Weekend of Quizbowl\", a regular season invitational tournament at George Mason University that drew teams from across the United States. Part of the tournament ran on a custom question packets set that was also sold to other invitational tournaments. PACE did not run the tournament the following year. In 2014, PACE created an outreach fund to give monetary grants of up to 200 to high school quiz bowl teams.\n\n"}
{"id": "22801842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22801842", "title": "Philosophical counseling", "text": "Philosophical counseling\n\nPhilosophical counseling, also sometimes called philosophical practice, is a contemporary movement in practical philosophy. Developing since the 1980s, practitioners of philosophical counseling ordinarily have a doctorate or minimally a master's degree in philosophy and offer their philosophical counseling or consultation services to clients who look for a philosophical understanding of their lives, social problems, or even mental problems. In the last case philosophical counseling might be in lieu of, or in conjunction with, traditional psychotherapy. The movement has often been said to be rooted in the Socratic tradition, which viewed philosophy as a search for the Good and the good life. A life without philosophy was not worth living for Socrates.\n\nPeter Koestenbaum at San Jose State University in California was an early figure in Philosophical Counseling. His 1978 book \"The New Image of the Person: The Theory and Practice of Clinical Philosophy\" set out the essential contributions of philosophy to counseling. His own practice was augmented by extensive training of mental health professionals in applications of philosophical principles.\n\nThe world's oldest association of philosophical counseling and practice appears to be the German Society for Philosophical Practice and Counseling, which was founded in 1982 by the German philosopher, Gerd B. Achenbach. In the United States, the oldest association of philosophical counseling and practice appears to be the National Philosophical Counseling Association (NPCA), formerly called the American Society for Philosophy, Counseling, and Psychotherapy, which was co-founded in 1992 by three American philosophers, Elliot D. Cohen, Paul Sharkey, and Thomas Magnell. The NPCA offers a primary certificate in logic-based therapy (LBT) through the Institute of Critical Thinking.\n\nThe American Philosophical Practitioners Association (APPA) was founded in 1998 in New York City by Professor Lou Marinoff. APPA offers a certification program in client counseling for those with advanced degrees in philosophy who wish to practice philosophical counseling. It also publishes a professional Journal and has a membership list of those certified as philosophical counselors on its website. Marinoff was at the center of a 2004 controversy when his philosophical counseling practice at City College of New York was temporarily shuttered by college officials who feared he was offering mental health advice without proper training and licensing; Marinoff responded by suing for what he described as his freedom of speech being stifled.\n\nThere are presently a number of professional associations for philosophical counseling throughout the world, including France, Belgium, Germany, Austria, Switzerland, Great Britain, Italy, Spain, Greece, the Netherlands, Norway, Denmark, Poland, Finland, Luxembourg, Israel, Canada, South Africa, Australia, Brazil, Portugal, Korea, Turkey, Japan, Taiwan, Singapore and the United States.\n\nAccording to the Preamble of the NPCA Standards of Practice,\nActivities common to philosophical practice include:\n\nThe methods and orientations of philosophical counselors vary greatly. Some practitioners, such as Gerd B. Achenbach (Germany), Michel Weber (Belgium) and Shlomit C. Schuster (Israel) are dialogical and dialective engaged, while confessing to a \"beyond method\" approach. They hold that philosophical counseling has the aim to empower clients' philosophical abilities, which additionally may have therapeutic implications. \"Others are directive oriented and view philosophical counseling as a form of mental health intervention\". Some philosophical practitioners, notably Louis Marinoff (U.S.) and Guenther Witzany (Austria), view philosophical practice as a separate practice area distinct from mental health practices such as psychology and mental health counseling; while others, notably Elliot D. Cohen (U.S.), think they are necessarily intertwined. Some philosophical counselors draw inspiration from the anti-psychiatry movement, arguing that widespread mental health diagnostic criteria as outlined in DSM IV have unfairly or inaccurately pathologized humanity.\n\nAccording to a \"New York Times\" article on philosophical counseling, \"only Cohen and Marinoff have branded easily comprehended techniques. Cohen's logic-based therapy builds on the work of his mentor Albert Ellis, who invented rational emotive behavior therapy.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "9886368", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9886368", "title": "Prerana Deshpande", "text": "Prerana Deshpande\n\nPrerana Deshpande is a recognized indian exponent of Kathak dance.\n\nShe started to study Kathak under Sharadini Gole when she was seven years old. Her first performance was when she was fifteen years old. Then she studied Kathak under Guru-Shishya Parampara tradition from Rohini Bhate, of Lucknow and Jaipur gharanas for twenty two years. She is known for her graceful movements, and for mastery over various aspects of Kathak, such as abhinaya (expression) and command over the laya (rhythm).\n\nPrerana Deshpande had her formal education at the Centre of Performing Arts of Pune University (Lalit Kala Kendra), India. She completed her master's degree in Kathak and stood first in the university. She also completed a bachelor's degree in Mathematics, and applies this formal mathematical knowledge to her dance.\n\nAs a dedication to her art, Deshpande established Nrityadham, an institute for Kathak dance in Pune, where she teach to students from India and abroad, and has a stable group of advanced performers who participate in shows and festivals.\n\nPrerana is married with the prominent tabla soloist Shri Supreet Deshpande. They have an only daughter, Ishwari Deshpande, who is also one of her advanced students in Nrityadham. Ishwari started to dance when she was three years old, around 1999, and she has stood out as a kathak dancer at least since her twelve years old.\n\nCreative collaboration named 'Mharo Pranam' on the life and lyrics of Meera Bai, conceptualized by Pt. Hemant Pendse with Kathak choreography by Prerana Deshpande.\n\nIn 2007, Prerana Deshpande collaborated with famous Odissi dancer Sujata Mohapatra in a Kathak - Odissi collaboration inspired by the World Heritage Site of Ajanta & Ellora. The production titled \"Ajanta Comes Alive - Tribute to Ajanta & Ellora\" premiered in the cultural capital of Maharastra, Pune, on February 18, 2007. Presented by dance scholar Sunil Kothari, this collaboration was subsequently staged in various cities of the country.\n\nIn 2010, Prerana and Sujata continued performing together. In 2018, Prerana premiered \"Space: Taal-mala\", a long piece performed by the interpreters of Nrityadham, based on the rhythmic work of the dancer Pt. Mohanrao Kallianpurkar. For that premiere Ratikant Mohapatra was invited with his Odissi company.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3202914", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3202914", "title": "Quetelet professor", "text": "Quetelet professor\n\nThe title of Quetelet professor is a distinction awarded to professors at Columbia University. It is named after Adolphe Quetelet, the Belgian astronomer, mathematician, statistician and sociologist.\n\nThe prize is currently held by:\n"}
{"id": "2165703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2165703", "title": "Residence hall director", "text": "Residence hall director\n\nA Residence Hall Director is college or university employee generally responsible for the management and daily operations of campus residence halls. While the term Residence Hall Director is the common title used for this position, they are also known at different schools as Area Coordinators (ACs), Area Directors (ADs), Hall Coordinators (HCs), Community Directors (CDs), Hall Directors (HDs), Resident or Residence Directors (RDs), Resident Deans (RDs), Residence Hall Coordinators (RHCs), or Residence Life Coordinators (RLCs). While different titles are used by different colleges and universities, the positions generally have similar job requirements, dependent upon the size of the institution and scope of the position's overarching department.\n\nAlthough not universal, some universities require Residence Hall Directors to have earned the minimum of a bachelor's degree, while most others require a master's degree in college student personnel, higher education, or another related or relevant field. Some universities fill the Residence Hall Director positions with graduate students who are only part time and may be required to complete fewer tasks or are responsible for smaller residential areas. There are also institutions that hire undergraduate students for the position. These students are often overseen by an Area Coordinator or a mid-level student affairs officer.\n\nThe main responsibility of the hall director is the direct supervision of Resident Assistants (RAs). Often carrying out the training of the RAs themselves, Residence Hall Directors meet frequently with their RAs to ensure the residence hall community is healthy and operating smoothly.\n\nIn addition to meeting and managing the RAs and any other hall staff, Residence Hall Directors frequently (depending on the university) have many of the following responsibilities:\n\nAnother aspect of being a Residence Hall Director is that they also tend to live in the hall or a separate adjoining apartment. They also tend to be on call 24 hours a day and are generally called by their RAs if problems arise needing attention.\n\n"}
{"id": "19271546", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19271546", "title": "School of Computing (Robert Gordon University)", "text": "School of Computing (Robert Gordon University)\n\nThe Robert Gordon University's School of Computing Science and Digital Media is one of the four schools in the Faculty of Design and Technology at The Robert Gordon University in Aberdeen, Scotland and offers a wide range of undergraduate and postgraduate degree programmes, as well as a PhD programme. The School has been recognised as the best computer science department of any UK modern university in the Good University Guide 2009.\n\nThe School's research areas include Information Retrieval and Interaction, Computer Science Education, Knowledge Based Systems, Computational Intelligence, Graphics and Imaging, and Mathematics for Computing and Engineering. Much of its research is encompassed by SmartWeb, a centre of excellence on intelligent computing technologies and their application to new types of Web-based systems and services. A new £1 million purpose-designed Computing Technologies Research Centre has recently been opened. The School is located in the Sir Ian Wood building (formerly known as Riverside East) at the University's Garthdee campus. \n"}
{"id": "3428892", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3428892", "title": "South African Democratic Teachers Union", "text": "South African Democratic Teachers Union\n\nThe South African Democratic Teachers Union (SADTU) is the largest trade union for teachers in South Africa. It is allied to the African National Congress and is an affiliate of the Congress of South African Trade Unions (COSATU).\n\nThe union has rejected a proposal by the Department of Basic Education (DBE) for performance-agreement contracts for school principals, pointing out that employment contracts already outlines principals' obligations, and claiming that such performance agreements would be unfair in the light of poor resourcing and lack of skills at schools.\n\nIn 2017, the National Education Collaboration Trust began work with SADTU to improve teaching at the basic education level in the Eastern Cape and Limpopo provinces.\n\nIn April, 2014, City Press reported that SADTU officials were running a racket, which involved accepting monetary bribes from educators in return for access to teaching or managerial positions. SADTU responded that the union was \"only party to the filling of posts as observers to ensure the fairness\" of the process.\n\nThe DBE subsequently set up a ministerial task team (MTT), headed by Professor John Volmink, to investigate. The MTT indicated that six provinces were affected by the racketeering: the North West, KwaZulu-Natal, Gauteng, Limpopo, Mpumalanga, and the Eastern Cape. Gauteng Education MEC Panyaza Lesufi admitted that his department was controlled by SADTU, and that the selling and buying of educational posts was \"endemic\". The Minister of Basic Education Angie Motshekga observed that the investigations implicated primarily SADTU, although other teachers unions and government officials were also involved. \n\nThe dysfunction in schools was attributed to \"weak\" government systems that had been \"infiltrated\" by a \"complex patronage system\". The report's conclusion was that SADTU's membership in the ANC's tripartite alliance gave it “enormous power and influence” over the education system, described the situation as “dangerous and inappropriate”, and found that it held the education system hostage to political processes.\n\nFollowing the release of the MTT's report, which SADTU had stalled until May, 2016, NAPTOSA, the second-largest teachers union in the country, welcomed the \"honest attempt to address a vexing problem\" but accused the Volmink team of \"union-bashing\"; NATU, the third-largest teachers union, found the investigation lacking, and the following year called for a judicial commission of inquiry, which would be able to more substantively investigate the issue due to its judicial powers. SADTU objected that they were being singled out for scapegoating for the ills of South Africa's education system, and insisted that there was no evidence that SADTU had facilitated improper conduct.\n\nA similar report by the SA Council of Educators found that the union as a whole had been involved, not just \"a few rogue elements\", as SADTU had maintained.\n\nSADTU has blamed KwaZulu-Natal's provincial education department for the educator shortages in the province, blaming \"the redistribution of teachers as a result of a post provisioning norms process\". 2 800 teaching posts remained unfilled in the province in February, 2017.\n\n\"The Economist\", characterising South Africa's educational system as \"one of the worst in the world\", placed the blame on SADTU for \"a lack of accountability and the abysmal quality of most teachers\". \n\nThe Department of Basic Education itself has identified SADTU as an obstruction to government efforts to improve education, with Minister Motshekga describing the union's influence as a \"stranglehold\" on education.\n\n"}
{"id": "32802391", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=32802391", "title": "The Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College", "text": "The Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College\n\nThe Newman Guide to Choosing a Catholic College is a guide published annually by the Cardinal Newman Society to assist students in choosing a Catholic college or university. It includes a list of Catholic institutions of higher education selected for their adherence to Catholic teaching and commitment to higher education. The guide seeks to include schools which comport with the principles of \"Ex Corde Ecclesiae\".\n\nFirst published in 2007, the Guide identifies 20 of the 197 Catholic colleges in the United States, as well as seven colleges and universities abroad and online where, in the Society's view, \"students can reasonably expect a faithful Catholic education and a campus culture that generally upholds the values taught in their homes and parishes.\"\n\nThe Guide claims \"to show students where they can learn and grow in a genuine Catholic environment without the nonsense that has overtaken even some of the most well-known Catholic universities.\" Not all recommended colleges are accredited, and the criteria for recommendation includes whether or not the Tridentine Mass is offered on campus.\n\nThe Newman Guide is published both in printed book form and online. The Guide's website includes all of the information for free.\n\n"}
{"id": "2219703", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2219703", "title": "Tuition Assistance Program", "text": "Tuition Assistance Program\n\nThe Tuition Assistance Program is a financial aid program for students who are New York State residents and who are attending a post-secondary educational institution in New York. It is a program of the Higher Education Services Corporation which is a New York State Agency.\n\nThe Tuition Assistance Program, better known as TAP, is an aid program that helps New York State residents going to college with their tuition. To become eligible for TAP, students must be United States citizens and New York State residents. With the TAP award, a student can earn from $500 to $5,000. Because TAP is a grant, the aid does not need to be repaid. There are several determining factors that influence how much aid students receive, such as family income and tax status (independent or dependent). Dependent students qualify for TAP if their family net tax income is below $80,000, and independent students who are married but have no parental income qualify if their income is below $40,000. Single independent students qualify for TAP if they have no parental income and their personal income is below $10,000. Other qualifications include number of college credits and grade point average for individuals who are already in school.\n\nThe Tuition Assistance Program is a part of a program called The Higher Education Services Corporation. The Higher Education Services program is a financial aid agency for college students. Tuition assistance is available for SUNY/CUNY colleges and can be used for tuition and fees for coursework related to students' majors. To apply for TAP, students can visit the financial aid website at FAFSA.gov. To apply students will first need the school name and code. If students are working part-time individuals can receive up to $1500, and if students are working full-time they can receive up to $3,000. If students are in school one must be a full-time student with at least a 2.0 average and taking 12 credits or more. Students will need to have a high school diploma and have graduated high school in the United States to be eligible for TAP. Also, according to the Higher Education Services Corporation, students must be charged at least $200 tuition per year.\n\nUndergraduate students who enroll in bachelors programs can receive four years of TAP if they are studying full-time. If students do not fulfill the requirements for the tuition assistance then they can lose their funding and can be forced to repay the aid for that course. If a student is unable to keep up with credits or grades (for example, if a student's grade point average is below a C- with fewer than 12 credits) then the student can lose the assistance. Because TAP is a state program, some states have appeal programs, allowing participants to explain why they could not meet the requirements. Some states do not have the appeal process. If a student drops a class that TAP is paying for, the student may need to pay the full amount for that course. TAP is an award and it will appear on a student’s financial aid award letter from the school the student is attending or planning to attend and from the New York State higher service corporation (NYSHESC). The letter states how much aid students will be getting. Undergraduate students are limited to only 8 semesters to receive TAP.\n\nIf students are in the HEOP program, which is the Arthur O. Eve Higher Education Opportunity program, then they are able to receive TAP for 10 semesters. To receive TAP students have to be studying a specific major and in an approved degree program. Each year the deadline to complete a TAP form is June 30. After filling out a FAFSA application, the website will provide a link to the TAP homepage to fill the application. Students will acquire a user ID and a pin number to apply and make changes.\n\nIn addition to the federal government's Free Application for Student Aid (FAFSA), there are programs similar to TAP in other states. Each state has its own grant/scholarship program for college students. The qualifications in each program are the similar to TAP. Some examples of different state grant programs are California's Cal grant program, Cal Dream Act, and Georgia's HOPE grant program. Grants are also provided by the US Military. The military tuition assistance program is for students who are of a military family. The military tuition program helps to pay almost the full amount of a student’s tuition costs. The program pays semester hours that are $250 and less and only applies to active duty members.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43874041", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43874041", "title": "United South End Settlements", "text": "United South End Settlements\n\nThe United South End Settlements (USES) consist of four settlement houses, founded as part of the Settlement movement to provide services such as daycare, education, and healthcare to improve the lives of the poor, and a children's museum dating back to 1891. With their slogan of \"neighbors helping neighbors since 1891\", the United South End Settlements continues to serve Boston's South End and Lower Roxbury community today. USES has grown and evolved over time to remain relevant to the South End.\n\nThe history of USES began in 1891 when William J. Tucker founded what was to become known as the South End House at 6 Rollins Street. The South End House would be the first of its kind \"in Boston and the fourth one in the United States.\" Before the incorporation of the final five organizations into USES, the Federation of South End Settlements was formed in 1950. The Federation of South End Settlements was made up of the South End House, Lincoln House (1892), Hale House (1895), Harriet Tubman House (1904), Ellis Memorial House, and Eldridge House. This federation was founded in order to create a larger pool of funds for the organizations to share. Eventually the Ellis Memorial and Eldridge Houses would disassociate themselves in 1959, and the four remaining houses and the Children's Art Centre would unite to become the United South End Settlements in January 1960.\n\nUSES originally focused on providing services to \"[improve] housing, public health, and sanitation, developing day care programs that included medical care for children, and creating mental health programs.\" Specifically, USES' \"residents established milk stations, public baths, dispensaries, and services, such as emergency loan and stamp savings programs\" USES also founded \"specialized schools for industrial, vocational, and employment training for both women and men\" to create more opportunity in the South End neighborhood. Culture and arts were not forgotten in the South End either as USES provided \"free concerts, art exhibitions, reading rooms, and a variety of social, drama, and literary clubs\" for its residents. As of 2014, USES still provides many of the same services that it has all along, incorporating the technology of today into its programs and curriculums for the residents of the South End and Lower Roxbury community.\n\n\n\nIndividuals interested in volunteering with the organization must submit an application (available online). All volunteers and interns are given the opportunity to list their preferred programs and hours of availability.\n\nDonating to USES is possible online. Donors that give at least one-thousand dollars annually are named members of the Harriet Tubman Society and their names can be featured on the USES website.\n"}
{"id": "13231259", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13231259", "title": "United Theological College of the West Indies", "text": "United Theological College of the West Indies\n\nThe United Theological College of the West Indies (UTCWI) is an ecumenical seminary training male and female clergy in Kingston, Jamaica, for Protestant denominations throughout the Caribbean.\n\nThe college was founded in 1966 . It moved to its current, custom-built site adjacent to University of the West Indies (UWI) Mona campus in the early 1970s. The Roman Catholic St. Michael's Theological College was built alongside at the same time.\n\nIt is affiliated to the University of the West Indies, forming the Department of Theology in the Faculty of Arts and Education (formerly Arts and General Studies).\n\nIt offers a Doctor of Ministry degree in co-operation with Columbia Theological Seminary in Georgia, United States.\n\n"}
{"id": "36487460", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36487460", "title": "Women in STEM fields", "text": "Women in STEM fields\n\nMany scholars and policymakers have noted that the fields of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics (STEM) have remained predominantly male with historically low participation among women since their origins during the Age of Enlightenment.\n\nScholars are exploring the various reasons for the continued existence of this gender disparity in STEM fields. Those who view this disparity as resulting from discriminatory forces are also seeking ways to redress this disparity within STEM fields (these typically construed as well-compensated, high-status professions with universal career appeal). Some proponents view diversity as an inherent human good, and wish to increase diversity for its own sake, regardless of its historical origin or present cause. \nStudies suggest that many factors contribute to the attitudes towards the achievement of young women in mathematics and science, including encouragement from parents, interactions with mathematics and science teachers, curriculum content, hands-on laboratory experiences, high school achievement in mathematics and science, and resources available at home. In the United States, research findings are mixed concerning when boys' and girls' attitudes about mathematics and science diverge. Analyzing several nationally representative longitudinal studies, one researcher found few differences in girls' and boys' attitudes towards science in the early secondary school years. Students' aspirations to pursue careers in mathematics and science influence both the courses they choose to take in those areas and the level of effort they put forth in these courses.\n\nA 1996 study suggested girls begin to lose self-confidence in middle school because they believe that men possess more intelligence in technological fields. The fact that men outperform women in spatial analysis, a skillset many engineering professionals deem vital, generates this misconception. Feminist scholars postulate that boys are more likely to gain spatial skills outside the classroom because they are culturally encouraged to build and work with their hands. Research shows that girls can develop these same skills with the same form of training.\n\nA 1996 study of college freshmen by the Higher Education Research Institute shows that men and women differ greatly in their intended fields of study. Of first-time college freshmen in 1996, 20 percent of men and 4 percent of women planned to major in computer science and engineering, while similar percentages of men and women planned to major in biology or physical sciences. The differences in the intended majors between male and female first-time freshmen directly relate to the differences in the fields in which men and women earn their degree. At the post-secondary level, women are less likely than men to earn a degree in mathematics, physical sciences, or computer sciences and engineering. The exception to this gender imbalance is in the field of life science.\n\nIn Scotland, a large number of women graduate in STEM subjects but fail to move onto a STEM career compared to men. The Royal Society of Edinburgh estimates that doubling women's high-skill contributions to Scotland's economy would benefit it by £170 million per annum.\n\nFemale college graduates earned less on average than male college graduates, even though they shared the earnings growth of all college graduates in the 1980s. Some of the differences in salary are related to the differences in occupations entered by women and men. Among recent science and engineering bachelor's degree recipients, women were less likely than men to be employed in science and engineering occupations. There remains a wage gap between men and women in comparable scientific positions. Among more experienced scientists and engineers, the gender gap in salaries is greater than for recent graduates. Salaries are highest in mathematics, computer science, and engineering, which are fields in which women are not highly represented. In Australia, a study conducted by the Australian Bureau of Statistics has shown that the current gender wage gap between men and women in STEM fields in Australia stands at 30.1 percent as of 2013, which is an increase of 3 percent since 2012. In addition, according to a study done by Moss, when faculty members of top research institutions in America were asked to recruit student applicants for a laboratory manager position, both men and women faculty members rated the male applicants as more hireable and competent for the position, as opposed to the female applicants who shared an identical resume with the male applicants. In the Moss study, faculty members were willing to give the male applicants a higher starting salary and career mentoring opportunities.\n\nThe percentage of PhDs in STEM fields in the U.S. earned by women is about 42%, whereas the percentage of PhDs in all fields earned by women is about 52%. Stereotypes and educational differences can lead to the decline of women in STEM fields. These differences start as early as the third grade according to Thomas Dee, with boys advancing in math and science and girls advancing in reading.\n\nUNESCO, among other agencies including the European Commission and The Association of Academies and Societies of Sciences in Asia (AASSA), have been outspoken about the underrepresentation of women in STEM fields globally.\n\nDespite their efforts to compile and interpret comparative statistics, it is necessary to exercise caution. Ann Hibner Koblitz has commented on the obstacles regarding the making of meaningful statistical comparisons between countries:\n\nEven when different countries use the same definitions of terms, the social significance of the categories may differ considerably. Koblitz remarks:\n\nA fact sheet published by UNESCO in March 2015 presented worldwide statistics of women in the STEM fields, with a focus on Asia and the Pacific region. It reports that, worldwide, 30 percent of researchers are women. In these areas, East Asia, the Pacific, South Asia and West Asia had the most uneven balance, with 20 percent of researchers being women in each of those sub-regions. Meanwhile, Central Asia had the most equal balance in the region, with women comprising 46 percent of its researchers. The Central Asian countries Azerbaijan and Kazakhstan were the only countries in Asia with women as the majority of their researchers, though in both cases it was by a very small margin.\nAs of 2004, 13.9% of students enrolled in science programs in Cambodia were female and 21% of researchers in science, technology, and innovation fields were female as of 2002. These statistics are significantly lower than those of other Asian countries such as Malaysia, Mongolia, and South Korea. According to a UNESCO report on women in STEM in Asian countries, Cambodia's education system has a long history of male dominance stemming from its male-only Buddhist teaching practices. Starting in 1924, girls were allowed to enroll in school. Bias against women, not only in education but in other aspects of life as well, exists in the form of traditional views of men as more powerful and dignified than women, especially in the home and in the workplace, according to UNESCO's \"A Complex Formula\".\n\nUNESCO's \"A Complex Formula\" states that Indonesia's government has been working towards gender equality, especially through the Ministry of Education and Culture, but stereotypes about women's roles in the workplace persists. Due to traditional views and societal norms, women struggle to remain in their careers or to move up in the workplace. Substantially more women are enrolled in science-based fields such as pharmacy and biology than in mathematics and physics. Within engineering, statistics vary based on the specific engineering discipline; women make up 78% of chemical engineering students but only 5% of mechanical engineering students. As of 2005, out of 35,564 researchers in science, technology, and engineering, only 10,874 or 31% were female.\n\nAccording to UNESCO, 48.19% of students enrolled in science programs in Malaysia were female as of 2011. This number has grown significantly in the past three decades, during which the country's employment of women has increased by 95%. In Malaysia, over 50% of employees in the computer industry, which is generally a male-dominated field within STEM, are women. Of students enrolled in pharmacy, more than 70% are female, while in engineering only 36% of students are female. Women held 49% of research positions in science, technology, and innovation as of 2011.\n\nAccording to UNESCO's data from 2012 and 2011 respectively, 40.2% of students enrolled in science programs and 49% of researchers in science, technology, and innovation in Mongolia are female. Traditionally, nomadic Mongol culture was fairly egalitarian, with both women and men raising children, tending livestock, and fighting in battle, which mirrors the relative equality of women and men in Mongolia's modern-day workforce. More females than males pursue higher education and 65% of college graduates in Mongolia are women. However, women earn about 19–30% less than their male counterparts and are perceived by society to be less suited to engineering than men. Thirty percent or less of employees in computer science, construction architecture, and engineering are female while three in four biology students are female.\n\nAs of 2011, 26.17% of Nepal's science students were women and 19% of their engineering students were also women. In research, women held 7.8% of positions in 2010. These low percentages correspond with Nepal's patriarchal societal values. In Nepal, women that enter STEM fields most often enter forestry or medicine, specifically nursing, which is perceived as a predominantly female occupation in most countries.\n\nIn 2012, 30.63% of students enrolled in science programs in South Korea were female, a number that has been increasing since the digital revolution. Numbers of male and female students enrolled at most levels of education are comparable as well, though the gender difference is larger in higher education. Confucian beliefs in the lower societal value of women as well as other cultural factors could influence South Korea's STEM gender gap. In South Korea, as in other countries, the percentage of women in medicine (61.6%) is much higher than the percentage of women in engineering (15.4%) and other more math-based stem fields. In research occupations in science, technology, and innovation, women made up 17% of the workforce as of 2011. In South Korea, most women working in STEM fields are classified as \"non-regular\" or temporary employees, indicating poor job stability. In a study conducted by the University of Glasgow which examined math anxiety and test performance of boys and girls from various countries, researchers found that South Korea had a high sex difference in mathematics scores, with female students scoring significantly lower than and experiencing more math anxiety on math tests than male students.\n\nAnn Hibner Koblitz reported on a series of interviews conducted in 2015 in Abu Dhabi with women engineers and computer scientists who had come to the United Arab Emirates and other Gulf states to find opportunities that were not available to them in their home country. The women spoke of a remarkably high level of job satisfaction and relatively little discrimination. Koblitz comments that\n\nIn the European Union only 16.7% on average of ICT (Information and communication technology) specialists are women. Only in Romania and Bulgaria do women hold more that 25 percent of these roles. The gender distribution is more balanced, particularly in new member states when taking into account ICT technicians (middle and low-ranking positions).\n\nIn 2012 the percentage of women PhD graduates was 47.3% of the total, 51% of the social sciences, business and law, 42% of the science, mathematics and computing, and just the 28% of PhD graduates in engineering, manufacturing and construction. In the computing subfield only 21% of PhD graduates were women. In 2013 in the EU as an average men scientists and engineers made up 4.1% of total labour force, while women made up only 2.8%. In more than half of the countries women make up less than 45% of scientists and engineers. The situation has improved, as between 2008 and 2011 the number of women amongst employed scientists and engineers grew by an average of 11.1% per year, while the number of men grew only by 3.3% over the same period.\n\nIn 2015 in Slovenia, Portugal, France, Sweden, Norway, and Italy there were more boys than girls taking advanced courses in mathematics and physics in secondary education in Grade 12.\n\nIn 2018 European Commissioner for Digital Economy and Society Mariya Gabriel announced plans to increase the participation of women in the digital sector by challenging stereotypes; promoting digital skills and education and advocating for more women entrepreneurs.\n\nAccording to the National Science Foundation, women comprise 43 percent of the U.S. workforce for scientists and engineers under 75 years old. For those under 29 years old, women comprise 56% of the science and engineering workforce. Of scientists and engineers seeking employment 50% under 75 are women, and 49% under 29 are women. About one in seven engineers are female.\n\nMen are much more likely than women to have a STEM career regardless of educational attainment. Women in STEM fields earn considerably less than men, even after controlling for a wide set of characteristics such as education and age. On average, men in STEM jobs earn $36.34 per hour while women in STEM jobs earn $31.11 per hour.\nWomen dominate the total number of persons with bachelor's degrees, as well as those in STEM fields defined by the National Center for Education Statistics. However, they are underrepresented in specific fields including Computer Sciences, Engineering, and Mathematics.\n\nAsian women are over-represented in STEM fields in the U.S.(though not as much as males of the same ethnicity) compared to African American, Hispanic, Pacific Islander, and Native American women. Within academia, these minority women represent less than 1% of tenure-track positions in the top 100 U.S. universities despite constituting approximately 13% of total US population. A 2015 study suggested that attitudes towards hiring women in STEM tenure track positions has improved, with a 2:1 preference for women in STEM after adjusting for equal qualifications and lifestyles (e.g., single, married, divorced).\n\nPrejudice and assumed stereotypes keep women of color, especially black women from studying in STEM fields. Psychologically, stereotypes on black women's intellect, cognitive abilities, and work ethic contribute to their lack of confidence in STEM. Spelman College is looking to change how the world looks at African American women, and welcomes black women helping to support them in becoming involved and technically proficient in STEM. Spelman provides the environment which cultivates creativity, intellectual thinking, and curiosity to broaden their thinking for complex solutions. 2,100 students of Spelman come from forty-four states, one territory and eleven countries, with one of the highest ranks of all institutions with black graduating with bachelors of science and engineering.\n\nAccording to the National Household Survey, women represented 39% of STEM graduates in Canada, as opposed to 66% in non-STEM fields. A study conducted by the University of British Columbia discovered that only 20–25% of computer science students from all Canadian college and universities are women. As well, only about 1 in 5 of that percentage will graduate from those programs.\n\nStatistically, women are less likely to choose a STEM program, regardless of mathematical ability. Young men with lower marks in mathematics are more likely to pursue STEM fields than their women-identified peers with higher marks in mathematics.\n\nIn terms of the most prestigious awards in STEM fields, fewer have been awarded to women than to men. Between 1901 and 2017 the female:total ratio of Nobel Prizes were 2:207 for physics, 4:178 for chemistry, 12:214 for physiology/medicine, and 1:79 for economic sciences.\nThe ratios for other fields were 14:114 in literature and 16:104 for peace. Maryam Mirzakhani was the first woman and first Iranian to receive the Fields Medal in 2014. The Fields Medal, is one of the most prestigious prize in mathematics, and has been awarded 56 times in total.\n\nFewer female students participate in prestigious STEM-related competitions such as the International Mathematical Olympiad. In 2017, only 10% of the IMO participants were female and there was one female on the South Korean winning team of six.\n\nAbbiss states that \"the ubiquity of computers in everyday life has seen the breaking down of gender distinctions in preferences for and the use of different applications, particularly in the use of the internet and email.\" Both genders have acquired skills, competencies and confidence in using a variety of technological, mobile and application tools for personal, educational and professional use at high school level, but the gap still remains when it comes to enrollment of girls in computer science classes, which declines from grades 10 to 12. For higher education programs in information and communications technology, women make up only 3% of graduates globally.\n\nA review of UK patent applications, in 2016, found that the proportion of new inventions registered by women was rising, but that most female inventors were active in stereotypically female fields such as \"designing bras and make-up\". 94% of inventions in the field of computing, 96% in automotive applications and mining, and 99% in explosives and munitions, were by men. In 2016 Russia had the highest percentage of patents filed by women, at about 16%.\n\nThere are a variety of proposed reasons for the relatively low numbers of women in STEM fields. These can be broadly classified into societal, psychological, and innate explanations. However, explanations are not necessarily restricted to just one of these categories.\n\nSchiebinger claims discrimination, both overt and covert, faced by women in STEM fields leads to fewer women in STEM fields. In the 1980s, researchers demonstrated a general evaluative bias against women.\n\nIn a 2012 study, email requests were sent to meet to professors in doctoral programs at the top 260 U.S. universities. It was impossible to determine whether any particular individual in this study was exhibiting discrimination, since each participant only viewed a request from one potential graduate student. However, researchers found evidence for discrimination against ethnic minorities and women relative to Caucasian men. In another study, science faculty were sent the materials of student who was applying for a lab manager position at their university. The materials were the same for each participant, but each application was randomly assigned either a male or a female name. The researchers found that faculty members rated the male candidates as both more competent and more hirable than the females candidate, despite applications being otherwise identical. If individuals are given information about a prospective student's gender, they may infer that he or she possesses traits consistent with stereotypes for that gender. A study in 2014 found that men are favored in some domains, such as tenure rates in biology, but that the majority of domains were gender-fair. The authors interpreted this to suggest that the underrepresentation of women in the professorial ranks was not solely caused by sexist hiring, promotion, and remuneration.\n\nStereotypes about what someone in a STEM field should look and act like may cause established members of these fields to overlook individuals who are highly competent. The stereotypical scientist or individual in another STEM profession is usually thought to be male. Women in STEM fields may not fit individuals' conception of what a scientist, engineer, or mathematician \"should\" look like and may thus be overlooked or penalized. The Role Congruity Theory of Prejudice states that perceived incongruity between gender and a particular role or occupation can result in negative evaluations. In addition, negative stereotypes about women's quantitative abilities may lead people to devalue their work or discourage these women from continuing in STEM fields.\n\nBoth men and women who work in \"nontraditional\" occupations may encounter discrimination, but the forms and consequences of this discrimination are different. Individuals of a particular gender are often perceived to be better suited to particular careers or areas of study than those of the other gender. A study found that job advertisements for male-dominated careers tended to use more agentic words (or words denoting agency, such as \"leader\" and \"goal-oriented\") associated with male stereotypes. Social Role Theory, proposed in 1991, states that men are expected to display agentic qualities and women to display communal qualities. These expectations can influence hiring decisions. A 2009 study found that women tended to be described in more communal terms and men in more agentic terms in letters of recommendation. These researchers also found that communal characteristics were negatively related to hiring decisions in academia.\n\nAlthough women entering traditionally male professions face negative stereotypes suggesting that they are not \"real\" women, these stereotypes do not seem to deter women to the same degree that similar stereotypes may deter men from pursuing nontraditional professions. There is historical evidence that women flock to male-identified occupations once opportunities are available. On the other hand, examples of occupations changing from predominantly female to predominantly male are very rare in human history. The few existing cases—such as medicine—suggest that redefinition of the occupations as appropriately masculine is necessary before men will consider joining them.\n\nAlthough men in female-dominated occupations may contend with negative stereotypes about their masculinity, they may also experience certain benefits. In 1992 it was suggested that women in male-dominated occupations tended to hit a glass ceiling; while men in female-dominated occupations may hit a \"glass escalator\". While the glass ceiling can make it difficult for women and minorities to reach the top of an occupation, the \"glass escalator\" allows men to excel in a profession that is female dominated.\n\nThe Black Sheep effect occurs when individuals are likely to evaluate members of their in-group more favorably than members of their out-group when those members are highly qualified. However, when an individual's in-group members have average or below average qualities, he or she is likely to evaluate them much lower than out-group members with equivalent qualifications. This suggests that established women in STEM fields will be more likely than established men to help early career women who display sufficient qualifications. However, established women will be less likely than men to help early career women who display insufficient qualifications.\n\nThe Queen Bee effect is similar to the Black Sheep effect but applies only to women. It explains why higher-status women, particularly in male-dominated professions, may actually be far less likely to help other women than their male colleagues might be. A 2004 study found that while doctoral students in a number of different disciplines did not exhibit any gender differences in work commitment or work satisfaction, faculty members at the same university believed that female students were less committed to their work than male students. What was particularly surprising was that these beliefs by faculty members were most strongly endorsed by female faculty members, rather than male faculty members. One potential explanation for this finding is that individual mobility for a member of a negatively stereotyped group is often accompanied by a social and psychological distancing of oneself from the group. This implies that successful women in traditionally male-dominated careers do not see their success as evidence that negative stereotypes about women's quantitative and analytical abilities are wrong, but rather as proof that they personally are exceptions to the rule. Thus, such women may actually play a role in perpetuating, rather than abolishing, these negative stereotypes.\n\nIn STEM fields, the support and encouragement of a mentor can make a lot of difference in women's decisions of whether or not to continue pursuing a career in their discipline This may be particularly true for younger individuals who may face many obstacles early on in their careers. Since these younger individuals often look to those who are more established in their discipline for help and guidance, the responsiveness and helpfulness of potential mentors is incredibly important.\n\nWomen in STEM may leave due to not being invited to professional meetings, the use of sexually discriminating standards against women, inflexible working conditions, the perceived need to hide pregnancies, and the struggle to balance family and work. Women in STEM fields that have children either need child care or to take a long leave of absence. When a nuclear family can not afford child care, typically it is the mother that gives up her career to stay at home with the children. This is due in part to women being paid statistically less in their careers. The man makes more money so the man goes to work and the woman gives up her career. Maternity leave is another issue women in STEM fields face. In the U.S. maternity leave is required by The Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 (FMLA). The FMLA requires 12 weeks of unpaid leave annually for mothers of newborn or newly adopted children. This is one of the lowest levels of leave in the industrialized world. Unlike the United States, most countries have the right to paid time off. If a new mother does not have external financial support or savings, they may not be able to take their full maternity leave. Few companies allow men to take paternity leave and it may be shorter than women's maternity leave. Longer paternity leaves for men could allow women to go back to work while their partners stay home with the children.\n\nIn 1993 \"The New England Journal of Medicine\" indicated that three-quarters of women students and residents were harassed at least once during their medical training.\n\nIn engineering and science education, women made up almost 50 percent of non-tenure track lecturer and instructor jobs, but only 10 percent of tenured or tenure-track professors in 1996. In addition, the number of female department chairs in medical schools did not change from 1976 to 1996. Moreover, women who do make it to tenured or tenure-track positions may face the difficulties associated with holding a token status. They may lack support from colleagues and may face antagonism from peers and supervisors. However, in 2014 a team of psychologists and economists conducted extensive analyses of national data and concluded that the state of women in STEM has changed greatly in the past two decades and any conclusions about their status based on data prior to 2000 are likely to be outdated. In general, they concluded that women had very sizable gains in academic science, including remuneration, promotion, and job satisfaction.\n\nAlthough it has been posited that more female role models would encourage more women to enter fields dominated by men, research has indicated this is not the case, and that women's lack of interest in STEM fields may instead in part stem from stereotypes about employees and workplaces in STEM fields, to which stereotypes women are disproportionately responsive.\n\nIn the early 1980s Rossiter put forth the concept of \"territorial segregation\" or occupational segregation, which is the idea that women \"cluster\" in certain fields of study. For example, \"women are more likely to teach and do research in the humanities and social sciences than in the natural sciences and engineering\", and the majority of college women tend to choose majors such as psychology, education, English, performing arts, and nursing.\n\nRossiter also used \"hierarchical segregation\" as an explanation for the low number of women in STEM fields. She describes \"hierarchical segregation\" as a decrease in the number of women as one \"moves up the ladder of power and prestige.\" This is related to the leaky STEM pipeline concept. The metaphor of the leaky pipeline has been used to describe how women drop out of STEM fields at all stages of their careers. In the U.S., out of 2,000 high school aged persons, 1944 were enrolled in high school fall 2014. Assuming equal enrollment for boys and girls, 60 boys and 62 girls are considered \"gifted.\" By comparing enrollment to the population of persons 20–24 years old, 880 of the 1000 original women, and 654 of the original 1000 men will enroll in college (2014). In freshmen year 330 women and 320 men will express an intent to study science or engineering. Of these only 142 women and 135 men will actually obtain a bachelor's degree in science or engineering, and only 7 women and 10 men will obtain a PhD in science or engineering.\n\nA meta-analysis concluded that men prefer working with things and women prefer working with people. When interests were classified by RIASEC type (Realistic, Investigative, Artistic, Social, Enterprising, Conventional), men showed stronger Realistic and Investigative interests, and women showed stronger Artistic, Social, and Conventional interests. Sex differences favoring men were also found for more specific measures of engineering, science, and mathematics interests.\n\nIn a 3-year interview study, Seymour and Hewitt (1997) found that perceptions that non-STEM academic majors offered better education options and better matched their interests was the most common (46%) reason provided by female students for switching majors from STEM areas to non-STEM areas. The second most frequently cited reason given for switching to non-STEM areas was a reported loss of interest in the women's chosen STEM majors. Additionally, 38% of female students who remained in STEM majors expressed concerns that there were other academic areas that might be a better fit for their interests. Preston's (2004) survey of 1,688 individuals who had left sciences also showed that 30 percent of the women endorsed \"other fields more interesting\" as their reason for leaving.\n\nAdvanced math skills do not often result in a woman being interested in a STEM career. A Statistics Canada survey found that even young women of high mathematical ability are much less likely to enter a STEM field than young men of similar or even lesser ability.\n\nRecent research reveals an interesting phenomenon that has been called the Patriarchy Paradox: the more gender equal societies are the less equal they are in the choices men and women make with respect to STEM (Science, Technology, Engineering, Mathematics) education and careers. The reasons for this now well-established phenomenon remain a matter of speculation.\n\nResearch has found that women steer away from STEM fields because they believe they are not qualified for them; the study suggested that this could be fixed by encouraging girls to participate in more mathematics classes. One of the factors behind girls' lack of confidence might be unqualified or ineffective teachers. Teachers' gendered perceptions on their students' capabilities can create an unbalanced learning environment and deter girls from pursuing further STEM education. They can also pass these stereotyped beliefs unto their students. Studies have also shown that student-teacher interactions affect girls' engagement with STEM. Teachers often give boys more opportunity to figure out the solution to a problem by themselves while telling the girls to follow the rules. Teachers are also more likely to accept questions from boys while telling girls to wait for their turns. This is partly due to gender expectations that boys will be active but that girls will be quiet and obedient. Prior to 1985, girls were provided fewer laboratory opportunities than boys. In middle and high school, science, mathematics, mechanics and computers courses are mainly taken by male students and also tend to be taught by male teachers. A lack of opportunities in STEM fields could lead to a loss of self-esteem in math and science abilities, and low self-esteem could prevent people from entering science and math fields.\n\nOut of STEM-intending students, 35% of women stated that their reason for leaving calculus was due to lack of understanding the material, while only 14% of men stated the same. The study reports that this difference in reason for leaving calculus is thought to develop from women's low level of confidence in their ability, and not actual skill. This study continues to establish that women and men have different levels of confidence in their ability and that confidence is related to how individual's performance in STEM fields. It was seen in another study that when men and women of equal math ability were asked to rate their own ability, women will rate their own ability at a much lower level. Programs with the purpose to reduce anxiety in math or increase confidence have a positive impact on women continuing their pursuit of a career in the STEM field.\n\nNot only can the issue of confidence keep women from even entering STEM fields, but even women in upper-level courses with higher skill are more strongly affected by the stereotype that they (by nature) do not possess innate ability to succeed. This can cause a negative effect on confidence for women despite making it through courses designed to filter students out of the field.\n\nStereotype threat arises from the fear that one's actions will confirm a negative stereotype about one's in-group. This fear creates additional stress, consuming valuable cognitive resources and lowering task performance in the threatened domain. Individuals are susceptible to stereotype threat whenever they are assessed in a domain for which there is a perceived negative stereotype about a group to which they belong. Stereotype threat undermines the academic performance of women and girls in math and science, which leads to an underestimation of abilities in these subjects by standard measures of academic achievement. Individuals who identify strongly with a certain area (e.g., math) are more likely to have their performance in that area hampered by stereotype threat than those who identify less strongly with the area. This means that even highly motivated students from negatively stereotyped groups are likely to be adversely affected by stereotype threat and thus may come to disengage from the stereotyped domain.\nNegative stereotypes about girls’ capabilities in mathematics and science drastically lower their performance in mathematics and science courses as well as their interest in pursuing a STEM career. Studies have found that gender differences in performance disappear if students are told that there are no gender differences on a particular mathematics test. This indicates that the learning environment can greatly impact success in a course.\n\nStereotype threat has been criticized on a theoretical basis. Several attempts to replicate its experimental evidence have failed. The findings in support of the concept have been suggested to be the product of publication bias.\n\nA study was done to determine how stereotype threat and math identification can affect women who were majoring in a STEM related field. There were three different situations, designed to test the impact of stereotype on performance in math. One group of women were informed that men had previously out-performed women on the same calculus test they were about to take. The next group was told men and women had performed at the same level. The last group was told nothing about how men had performed and there was no mention of gender before taking their test. Out of these situations, women performed at their best scores when there was no mention of gender. The worst scores were from the situation where women were told that men had performed better than women. For women to pursue the male-dominated field of STEM, previous research shows that they must have more confidence in math/science ability.\n\nSome studies propose the explanation that STEM fields (and especially fields like physics, math and philosophy) are considered by both teachers and students to require more innate talent than skills that can be learned. Combined with a tendency to view women as having less of the required innate abilities, researchers propose this can result in assessing women as less qualified for STEM positions. In a study done by Ellis, Fosdick and Rasmussen, it was concluded that without strong skills in calculus, women cannot perform as well as their male counterparts in any field of STEM, which leads to the fewer women pursuing a career in these fields. A high percentage of women that do pursue a career in STEM do not continue on this pathway after taking Calculus I, which was found to be a class that weeds out students from the STEM pathway.\n\nThere have been several controversial statements about innate ability and success in STEM. A few notable examples include Lawrence Summers, former president of Harvard University who suggested cognitive ability at high end positions could cause a population difference. Summers later stepped down as president. Former Google engineer, James Damore, wrote a memo entitled Google's Ideological Echo Chamber suggesting that differences in trait distributions between men and women was a reason for gender imbalance in STEM. The memo stated that affirmative action to reduce the gap could discriminate against highly qualified male candidates. Damore was fired for sending out this memo.\n\nThere are a multitude of factors that may explain the low representation of women in STEM careers. Anne-Marie Slaughter, the first woman to hold the position of Director of Policy Planning for the United States Department of State, has recently suggested some strategies to the corporate and political environment to support women to fulfill to the best of their abilities the many roles and responsibilities that they undertake. The academic and research environment for women may benefit by applying some of the suggestions she has made to help women excel, while maintaining a work-life balance.\n\nA number of researchers have tested interventions to alleviate stereotype threat for women in situations where their math and science skills are being evaluated. The hope is that by combating stereotype threat, these interventions will boost women's performance, encouraging a greater number of them to persist in STEM careers.\n\nOne simple intervention is simply educating individuals about the existence of stereotype threat. Researchers found that women who were taught about stereotype threat and how it could negatively impact women's performance in math performed as well as men on a math test, even when stereotype threat was induced. These women also performed better than women who were not taught about stereotype threat before they took the math test.\n\nOne of the proposed methods for alleviating stereotype threat is through introducing role models. One study found that women who took a math test that was administered by a female experimenter did not suffer a drop in performance when compared to women whose test was administered by a male experimenter. Additionally, these researchers found that it was not the physical presence of the female experimenter but rather learning about her apparent competence in math that buffered participants against stereotype threat. \nThe findings of another study suggest that role models do not necessarily have to be individuals with authority or high status, but can also be drawn from peer groups. This study found that girls in same-gender groups performed better on a task that measured math skills than girls in mixed-gender groups. This was due to the fact that girls in the same-gender groups had greater access to positive role models, in the form of their female classmates who excelled in math, than girls in mixed-gender groups. \nSimilarly, another experiment showed that making groups achievements salient helped buffer women against stereotype threat. Female participants who read about successful women, even though these successes were not directly related to performance in math, performed better on a subsequent math test than participants who read about successful corporations rather than successful women. \nA study investigating the role of textbook images on science performance found that women demonstrated better comprehension of a passage from a chemistry lesson when the text was accompanied by a counter-stereotypic image (i.e., of a female scientist) than when the text was accompanied by a stereotypic image (i.e., of a male scientist).\nOther scholars distinguish between the challenges of both recruitment and retention in increasing women's participation in STEM fields. These researchers suggest that although both female and male role models can be effective in recruiting women to STEM fields, female role models are more effective at promoting the retention of women in these fields. Female teachers can also act as role models for young girls. Reports have shown that the presence of female teachers positively influences girls' perceptions of STEM and increases their interest in STEM careers.\n\nResearchers have investigated the usefulness of self-affirmation in alleviating stereotype threat. One study found that women who affirmed a personal value prior to experiencing stereotype threat performed as well on a math test as men and as women who did not experience stereotype threat. A subsequent study found that a short writing exercise in which college students, who were enrolled in an introductory physics course, wrote about their most important values substantially decreased the gender performance gap and boosted women's grades. Scholars believe that the effectiveness of such values-affirmation exercises is their ability to help individuals view themselves as complex individuals, rather than through the lens of a harmful stereotype. Supporting this hypothesis, another study found that women who were encouraged to draw self-concept maps with many nodes did not experience a performance decrease on a math test. However, women who did not draw self-concept maps or only drew maps with a few nodes did perform significantly worse than men on the math test. The effect of these maps with many nodes was to remind women of their \"multiple roles and identities,\" that were unrelated to, and would thus not be harmed by, their performance on the math test.\nOrganizations such as Girls Who Code, StemBox, Blossom, Engineer Girl, Girls Can Code in Afghanistan, @IndianGirlsCode, and Kode with Klossy (spearheaded by supermodel Karlie Kloss) aim to encourage women and girls to explore male-dominated STEM fields. Many of these organizations offer summer programs and scholarships to girls interested in STEM fields. The U.S. government has funded similar endeavors; the Department of State's Bureau of Educational and Cultural Affairs created TechGirls and TechWomen, exchange programs which teach Middle Eastern and North African girls and women skills valuable in STEM fields and encourage them to pursue STEM careers. There is also the TeachHer Initiative, spearheaded by UNESCO, Costa Rican First Lady, Mercedes Peñas Domingo, and Dr. Jill Biden which aims to close the gender gap in STEAM curricula and careers. The Initiative also emphasizes the importance of after school activities and clubs for girls.\n\nCurrent campaigns to increase women's participation within STEM fields include the UK's WISE as well as mentoring programs, such as the Million Women Mentors initiative connecting girls and young women with STEM mentors, GlamSci, and Verizon's #InspireHerMind project. The US Office of Science and Technology Policy during the Obama administration collaborated with the White House Council on Women and Girls to increase the participation of women and girls within STEM fields along with the \"Educate to Innovate\" campaign.\n\n"}
{"id": "47066384", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47066384", "title": "Yogi Haider", "text": "Yogi Haider\n\nYogi Haider born Shamshad Haider is a yoga teacher living in Pakistan. He is the founder of \"Yoga Pakistan\" and \"Way of Nature\" through which he teaches yoga and meditation. He studied yoga in Burma, Tibet, Nepal and India, including from S. N. Goenka. Haider belongs to Pakistan's Punjab province. He has been teaching yoga since 1994. His organisation teaches yoga to over 10,000 students in Islamabad, Karachi, Rawalpindi and Lahore. His students include Pakistani politicians such as Qaim Ali Shah (Chief Minister of Sindh) and Ghulam Mustafa Khar (former Governor of Punjab). Haider gives free public training. Haider says that his ambition is to emulate Ramdev Baba and popularise yoga amongst Pakistanis. Haider has been called as the face of yoga in Pakistan. He has been described coming across as an Indian yogi, simple, peaceful and confident. He speaks English, Urdu, Hindi, Punjabi, Arabic and Nepalese.\n\nHaider's workshop in Lahore was attacked by Islamists for being a part of Hindu culture. A yoga centre belonging to one of Haider's associates was subject to arson and completely destroyed.\n"}
