{"id": "9347026", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9347026", "title": "1971 killing of Bengali intellectuals", "text": "1971 killing of Bengali intellectuals\n\nIn 1971 the Pakistan Army and their local collaborators, most notably the extreme right wing Islamist militia groups Al-Badr, engaged in the systematic execution of Bengali pro-liberation intellectuals during the Bangladesh liberation war of 1971, a war crime. Intellectuals were killed during the entire duration of the war. The largest number of executions took place on 25 March and 14 December 1971, as it became apparent that Bangladesh would become independent. 14 December is commemorated in Bangladesh as Martyred Intellectuals Day.\n\nAt the beginning of Operation Searchlight, on the night of 25 March 1971, a number of professors from Dhaka University were killed.\n\nSince the establishment of the State of Pakistan, the rulers of West Pakistan discriminated against citizens of East Pakistan and denied them civil and political rights. The discrimination was visible in all disciplines and the attack on the language and culture was direct. As a result, the discontent and anger in the minds of Bengalis turned to political and cultural protests and these movements were led by intellectuals from all parts of the society. They encouraged and seeded the idea of nationalism in the heart of Bengalis through social and cultural activities. As a result of their cultural movement, the people of East Pakistan (now Bangladesh) gradually became aware of their rights which turned the movement towards political protests.\n\nAs the war neared its end, a final effort to wipe off as many intellectuals as possible took place, mostly planned between 12 and 14 December to eliminate the future leaders of the new nation. On 14 December 1971, over 200 of East Pakistan's intellectuals including professors, journalists, doctors, artists, engineers, and writers were picked up from their homes in Dhaka by the Al-Badr militias and Pakistani Army. Notable novelist Shahidullah Kaiser and playwright Munier Choudhury were among the victims. They were taken blindfolded to torture cells in Mirpur, Mohammadpur, Nakhalpara, Rajarbagh and other locations in different sections of the city. Later they were executed en masse, most notably at Rayerbazar and Mirpur. In memory of the martyred intellectuals, 14 December is mourned in Bangladesh as Shaheed Buddhijibi Dibosh Day of the Martyred Intellectuals.\n\nIt is widely speculated that the killings of 14 December was orchestrated by Maj Gen Rao Farman Ali. After the liberation of Bangladesh a list of Bengali intellectuals (most of whom were executed on 14 Dec) was discovered in a page of his diary left behind at the Governor's House. The existence of such a list was confirmed by Ali himself although he denied the motive of genocide. The same was also confirmed by Altaf Gauhar, a former Pakistani bureaucrat. He mentioned an incident in which Altaf requested Ali to delete a friend's name from the list and Ali did that in front of him.\n\nMany notable intellectuals who were killed from 25 March to 16 December 1971 in different parts of the country include:\nOn 3 November 2013, a Special Court in Dhaka has sentenced two former leaders of the al-Badr killing squad to death for war crimes committed during Bangladesh's war of liberation in 1971. Chowdhury Mueen-Uddin, a Muslim leader based in London, and Ashrafuz Zaman Khan, based in the US, were sentenced in absentia after the court found that they were involved in the abduction and murders of 18 intellectuals – nine Dhaka University professors, six journalists and three physicians – in December 1971. Prosecutors said the killings were carried out between 10 and 15 December, when Pakistan was losing the war in Bangladesh (then East Pakistan), and were part of a campaign intended to strip the newborn nation of its intellectuals.\n\nOn 2 November 2014 International Crimes Tribunal, Bangladesh sentenced Mir Quasem Ali to death for war crimes which include the killings of intellectuals. It was proved in the tribunal that he was a key organiser of the Al-Badr, which planned and executed the killing of the intellectuals on 14 December 1971.\n\nThe number of intellectuals killed is estimated in Banglapedia as follows:\n\nThe district wise break-up of the number of martyred academicians and lawyers published in 1972 was as follows –\nAdministrative districts and divisions mentioned here are as they were in 1972.\n\nMartyred Intellectuals Day is held annually to commemorate the victims. In Dhaka, hundreds of thousands of people walk to Mirpur to lay flowers at the Martyred Intellectuals Memorial. The president and the prime minister of Bangladesh and heads of all three wings of the Bangladesh armed forces pay homage at the memorial.\n\n"}
{"id": "55914971", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55914971", "title": "Abigail Rogers", "text": "Abigail Rogers\n\nAbigail Rogers (1818–1869) was an American advocate for women's rights and women's education. She founded the Michigan Women's College, and was posthumously inducted into the Michigan Women's Hall of Fame in 2007.\n\nRogers spent her whole life advocating for the admittance of women into Michigan universities. In September 1855, she founded the Michigan Women's College in Lansing, Michigan with Delia Rogers and pioneer James Turner, with the stated goal \"to keep before the public mind as constantly as they could, the duty of the State to provide for the education of its daughters as it had already provided for the education of its sons.\" The college held daily sessions in the Michigan State Capitol until acquiring a location of their own in 1857. Ten years later over 1000 students had been educated. In 1869, Rogers died. Later that same year, in part as a result of her work Michigan State University (in 1869) admitted women, and the next year, the University of Michigan (in 1870) admitted women. The Michigan Women's College would eventually become the Michigan School for the Blind.\n"}
{"id": "33792727", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33792727", "title": "Association for Middle Level Education", "text": "Association for Middle Level Education\n\nThe Association for Middle Level Education (AMLE), formerly National Middle School Association (NMSA), is an international education association dedicated exclusively to the middle level grades. With more than 30,000 members in the United States, Canada, and 46 other countries, AMLE represents principals, teachers, central office personnel, professors, college students, parents, community leaders, and educational consultants. In addition, AMLE's network includes 58 affiliates in the United States, Canada, Europe, and Australia that serve regional, state, provincial, and local needs.\nAMLE provides professional development, journals, books, research, and other information to assist educators helping them to reach every student, grow professionally, and create great schools.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "29053670", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29053670", "title": "Association for Studies in International Education", "text": "Association for Studies in International Education\n\nThe Association for Studies in International Education (ASIE) is a group of organizations whose stated mission is to encourage serious research and publications dealing with international education and academic mobility, to stimulate interest in such work, and to develop and promote ways to disseminate this work in cost-effective and accessible formats. The initial objective and primary focus of ASIE in fulfillment of this mission is the publication and distribution of the Journal of Studies in International Education (JSIE).\n\nThe Journal of Studies in International Education (JSIE) is published by Nuffic on behalf of the association.\n"}
{"id": "4926702", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4926702", "title": "BCeSIS", "text": "BCeSIS\n\nBCeSIS (the British Columbia Enterprise Student Information System) is the implementation of a common student information system by independent schools and school districts of British Columbia, Canada. eSIS is commercial software developed by The Administrative Assistants Ltd of Ontario, Canada, that provides a foundation for a centrally hosted, web accessible student information system.\n\nThe BCeSIS System is currently hosted by Fujitsu Canada under contract to the British Columbia Ministry of Education. Currently all districts have signed a memorandum of understanding to voluntarily adopt BCeSIS on their own timeline. Support for schools and districts adopting the new system is provided by their own local staff resources in conjunction with Fujitsu Service Desk and the Ministry of Education. The Independent Schools of BC have pooled their resources as a consortium (the iGroup) and implementation/training and support of BCeSIS for Independent and First Nations School is handled by this consortium.\n\nSome teachers dislike the system, believing it to be a tool of social control, centralizing potentially sensitive private information, and placing important decisions about student education in the hands of unelected committees with no background in education.\n\nThe system also draws criticism for its archaic user interface. Some screens within the program allow arrow key movement, some functions use icons or multi-level text clicks, others require mouse clicks. The general design was not field tested on its intended users, nor was it tested on multiple browsers, and resulted in a poor user experience. For example, fields containing parent phone numbers only display the part of the number; a mouse click and arrow clicks are required to see the rest. Students lists (a typical class consists of 24–30 students) shows only thirteen names on the screen; one has to scroll down for the rest. Marks entry encounters similar design faults: sideways scrolling within student field-sets are required to access the three types of data typically entered (percent, work habits, comment selection). Combined with a start-up beset with server problems the introduction of BCeSIS was met with sharp anxiety and a call to examine whether the system was worth the $80 million expenditure.\n\nBCeSIS requires the use of outdated Java versions, as support for newer versions of Java was never implemented. There are many known serious security issues with the outdated version of Java required to run BCeSIS \n\nUsing the Teacher Assistant interface, the teacher has access to the student demographics and contact information as well as details regarding the students' performance, programs and special education needs. BCeSIS gathers attendance in the classroom using an electronic attendance checklist and allows both the teacher and the office to share information regarding student absences. In an upcoming release of BCeSIS the province will be implementing a new capability called Parent Assistant that will allow parents to monitor their children's attendance and performance as it is entered into the system.\n\nBCeSIS drew media attention in September 2010 for slow performance that hampered the efforts of schools to make timetable changes, process student transfers, and complete attendance. With new school district using the service, Fujitsu Service Desk was forced to limit the number of logins and post \"BCeSIS unavailable\" messages during peak usage hours. This compounded the performance issues and resulted in a number of internet parodies, including a re-subtitled scene from the movie Downfall.\n\nOn September 19, 2011, The Vancouver Sun reported that the Ministry of Education would be discontinuing use of the BCeSIS software, based on a recommendation by Gartner, Inc, and would likely not have a replacement in place until 2014. The Minister of Education, George Abbott, said that the system had glitches but was still good value for money, and was being replaced largely because the technology was outdated.\n\nBCeSIS is now being replaced by MyEducationBC. The first schools will be going live in September 2014. More information about implementation of MyEducationBC can be found at: https://web.archive.org/web/20140406113440/http://sisimplementation.ca/\n\n"}
{"id": "8737973", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8737973", "title": "Council for Higher Education in Israel", "text": "Council for Higher Education in Israel\n\nThe Council for Higher Education in Israel (, \"HaMo'atza LeHaskala Gevoha\") is a supervisory body for universities and colleges in Israel. It is the only organization with the authority to award academic educational accreditation. The head of the council is always the Minister of Education, and at least two-thirds of its members are academics.\n\nThe council is located in Albert Einstein Square, Jerusalem, next to the Israel Academy of Sciences and Humanities.\n\nThe council was established in 1958, a time at which most of the academic institutions were dependent on the governmental budget, and there was concern among academics that the government would politically influence higher education institutions.\n\nIn 1956 the government appointed a special committee, which was supposed to advise the government how to act, in order to assure that no ruling political party will be able to influence the academic institutions. The Governor of the Bank of Israel, David Horowitz, was the head of the committee, which advised the government to appoint a special apolitical and academic council which would supervise the functioning of the academic institutions and their relations with the government. Soon after, in 1958, the Knesset passed the Council for Higher Education Law, which established the organisation.\n\nIn December 2005, new legislation came into force, which enlarged the student representation at the council from one to two members, one for university students and one for college students.\n\nThe total budget of the council, which is funded by the government, is 6 billion NIS per year, which is then transferred to the public universities and colleges. Among its duties, the council is responsible for the establishment of new universities and the expansion of existing universities.\n\nThe most important body of the council is the committee for budget and planning, which deals with the division of funding between the various universities and colleges.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "506386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=506386", "title": "David Wechsler", "text": "David Wechsler\n\nDavid Wechsler (; January 12, 1896 – May 2, 1981) was a Romanian-American psychologist. He developed well-known intelligence scales, such as the Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) and the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC). A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Wechsler as the 51st most cited psychologist of the 20th century.\n\nWechsler was born in a Jewish family in Lespezi, Romania, and emigrated with his parents to the United States as a child. He studied at the City College of New York and Columbia University, where he earned his master's degree in 1917 and his Ph.D. in 1925 under the direction of Robert S. Woodworth. During World War I, he worked with the United States Army to develop psychological tests to screen new draftees while studying under Charles Spearman and Karl Pearson.\n\nAfter short stints at various locations (including five years in private practice), Wechsler became chief psychologist at Bellevue Psychiatric Hospital in 1932, where he stayed until 1967.\n\nHe died on May 2, 1981.\n\nWechsler is best known for his intelligence tests. He was one of the most influential advocates of the role of nonintellective factors in testing. He emphasized that factors other than intellectual ability are involved in intelligent behavior. Wechsler objected to the single score offered by the 1937 Binet scale. Although his test did not directly measure nonintellective factors, it took these factors into careful account in its underlying theory. The Wechsler Adult Intelligence Scale (WAIS) was developed first in 1939 and then called the Wechsler-Bellevue Intelligence Test. From these he derived the Wechsler Intelligence Scale for Children (WISC) in 1949 and the Wechsler Preschool and Primary Scale of Intelligence (WPPSI) in 1967. Wechsler originally created these tests to find out more about his patients at the Bellevue clinic and he found the then-current Binet IQ test unsatisfactory. The tests are still based on his philosophy that intelligence is \"the global capacity to act purposefully, to think rationally, and to deal effectively with [one's] environment\" (cited in Kaplan & Saccuzzo, p. 256).\n\nThe Wechsler scales introduced many novel concepts and breakthroughs to the intelligence testing movement. First, he did away with the quotient scores of older intelligence tests (the Q in \"I.Q.\"). Instead, he assigned an arbitrary value of 100 to the mean intelligence and added or subtracted another 15 points for each standard deviation above or below the mean the subject was. While not rejecting the concept of general intelligence (as conceptualized by his teacher Charles Spearman), he divided the concept of intelligence into two main areas: verbal and performance (non-verbal) scales, each evaluated with different subtests.\n\n"}
{"id": "27113008", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27113008", "title": "Educology", "text": "Educology\n\nEducology is the study of education, or more precisely, educological research (or inquiry) is the study of education, and educology is the product of the study, provided that the study is careful, disciplined, successful research (or inquiry) which treats education as the dependent variable and which examines the effects of other variables upon education.\n\nThe term educology denotes the fund of knowledge about education. The fund consists of the entire set of recorded true statements about education. Educology includes\nSome basic warranted assertions about education which have been produced by educological research and inquiry include:\n\nEducology consists of knowledge about all aspects of education, official and unofficial, effective and ineffective, good and bad. It includes knowledge (recorded true statements) about\nFor the purposes of research and guided study, educology is commonly organized into subsets or subfunds of educology. The organization is done in relation to features or aspects in the field of phenomena of education that are being researched and/or studied under guidance. Common subfunds of educology include\nDevelopment of educology commenced in the 1950s. Since that time, educology has been extended through publication of research findings in journals and books and through the establishment of departments of educology and the provision of educology courses in universities.\n\nThe term educology has been in use in the English language since the seminal work in educology by Professor Lowry W. Harding at Ohio State University in the 1950s and Professor Elizabeth Steiner [Maccia] and her husband and colleague, Professor George Maccia, at Indiana University in the 1960s. In the late 1960s and early 1970s, John B. Biggs and Rachel Elder coined the term independently of Harding, Steiner and Maccia. Other researchers in the English speaking world who worked on developing and extending educology in the 1970s and 1980s included James E. Christensen, James E. Fisher, David E. Denton, Diana Buell Hiatt, Charles M. Reigeluth and M. David Merrill, James F. Perry, Marian Reinhart, Edmund C. Short, John Walton, Catherine O. Ameh, Laurie Brady, Berdine F. Nel, Maryann J. Ehle and others.\n\nIn Europe, development of educology in the 1980s and 1990s came from the research of Anton Monshouwer, Theo Oudkerk Pool, Wolfgang Brezinka, Carlos E. Olivera, Nikola Pastuovic and in the early 2000s by Birgitta Qvarsell, Kestutis Pukelis and Izabela Savickiene and Sharon Link. Recent contributions to the development of educology have come from the American educologists Theodore W. Frick of Indiana University, Bloomington, and Kenneth R. Thompson of System-Predictive Technologies, Columbus, Ohio and the Australian educologist James E. Christensen of Educology Research Associates. The \"International Journal of Educology\" (initially published in Australia, later in the USA and most recently in Lithuania) commenced publication in 1987, and it continues in electronic form into the present. The \"IJE\" has served as a forum for the clarification and extension of educology, with the publication of over 100 refereed articles in educology over a period exceeding 30 years. Some universities have adopted the term for their publications, e.g. the University of Illinois and Indiana University. Other universities have used educology for institutional organization and curriculum arrangements. Since the dissolution of the USSR in 1991, a number of universities in the Baltic countries and elsewhere in Europe have established departments and faculties of educology and offer courses and degrees in educology. They include Vilnius University (Lithuania), Siauliai University (Lithuania), Vilnius Pedagogical University (Lithuania), Vytautas Magnus University (Lithuania), Mykolas Romeris University (Lithuania), Kaunas University of Medicine (Lithuania), Klaipėda University (Lithuania), Tallinn University (Estonia), Stockholm University (Sweden), University of Presov (Slovakia) and Comenius University in Bratislava (Slovakia). In addition to academic institutions, some for-profit and not-for-profit organizations have adopted the term in either the name of their organizations or in their publications.\n\nThe term \"educology\" derives from the term \"education\" and the suffix \"-logy\". The term was coined to dispel the confusion caused by using the term \"education\" to name the process of teaching, studying and learning under guidance, and calling knowledge about the educational process by the same name, \"education\". A range of arguments for the use of the term \"educology\" has been developed over the past fifty years and more. Some have argued that the term \"educology\" should be used to name only \"philosophy of education\", or only \"theory of education\", or only scientific knowledge about education (science of education) or only knowledge about effective practices in education (praxiological knowledge, also spelled \"praxeology\"). The prevailing and generally accepted argument which has emerged from the discourse among educologists over the last half of the 20th and the early 21st century is that the term \"educology\" names the entire fund of knowledge about education including theoretical, philosophical, scientific and praxiological knowledge.\n\nWithin common usage of the English language and also within special usages (i.e. technical usages) of that language, several terms have been used to name the fund of recorded knowledge about education. Included among those terms are \"pedagogy\", \"andragogy\", \"ethology\", \"Education\", \"Education Studies\", \"Professional Education\" and \"psychopedagogy\". However, educologists argue that one term performs the job of naming the fund of knowledge about education even better than these seven: \"educology\". Educologists maintain that the term \"educology\" suits the job best for three compelling reasons:\nEducologists argue that the concept of educology implies the inclusion of the entire fund of recorded propositional knowledge about the entire process of education, from nascence to senescence. It is not limited only to knowledge about the education of children (pedagogy) or to that of male adults (andragogy). It is not recorded knowledge about processes other than education, such as knowledge about character development (ethology) or a combination of psychological knowledge and knowledge about the practice of teaching (psychopedagogy). The name \"educology\" eliminates the ambiguity which is created by naming the process of guided study with the term \"education\" and naming the fund of recorded propositional knowledge about that process with the same term \"education\".\n\nEducologists demonstrate the power of the term \"educology\" to dispel ambiguity through techniques such as word substitution in sentences. For example, the practice of capitalizing the term \"education\" and of adding the term \"professional\" or the term \"studies\" or the term \"teacher\" to the term \"education\" are attempts to remove ambiguity. Educologists argue that the use of these terms (\"Education\", \"Education Studies\", \"Professional Education\" and \"Teacher Education\") are not nearly as cogent in dispelling the ambiguity as is the use of the term \"educology\". This can be illustrated with, for example, the sentence,\n\nThe ambiguity created in the meaning of the sentence can be reduced somewhat, but not entirely, by substituting the second \"education\" with the terms \"Education\", \"Education Studies\", \"Professional Education\" and \"Teacher Education\".\nThe ambiguity created in the meaning of the sentence can be eliminated entirely by substituting the second \"education\" with the term \"educology\".\n\nThe term substitution of educology for education completely eliminates the ambiguity and conforms with the convention for naming funds of knowledge with the suffix \"-logy\": for example, \"psychology\" from \"psyche\" (mind) plus \"-logy\" (knowledge about); \"sociology\" from \"society\" plus \"–logy\" (knowledge about); \"educology\" from \"education\" plus \"–logy\" (knowledge about).\n\nEducologists maintain that there are at least three compelling reasons for creating new terms in discourse about the educational process.\n\nEducologists conclude that the case for the term \"educology\" is supported by all three reasons. The term \"education\" functions ambiguously to name the process and also to name warranted assertions about the process. To educologists, it is a misnomer to name warranted assertions about the educational process with the term \"education\". It is like using the term \"animals\" to name zoology. It is a category mistake. The term \"educology\" names a new meaning for which there is no satisfactory existing term. It names, and only names, and names nothing more than, nor less than, knowledge about education.\n\nEducologists recognize that there is discourse \"in\" education and discourse \"about\" education. Discourse \"in\" education occurs in the form of talk and writing within the educational process. Discourse \"in\" education is one of many phenomena within the educational process. Discourse \"about\" education, when it is sound, well founded and warranted, is educology. These two categories of discourse are illustrated in Table 1.\n\nTable 1: Example of educational discourse and educological discourse\n\nThe term \"study\" denotes the set of activities one undertakes to learn something.\n\nStudy can be done independently, outside of the educational process, without the guidance of a teacher. And it can be undertaken under the guidance of a teacher, within the educational process. Education is a process about which one can conduct inquiry and research. Educology is the fund of knowledge which is produced from well disciplined and successful inquiry and research about the process.\n\nEducology is not the study of education because educology is not an activity. Study is an activity. One can study educology, i.e. undertake activities to learn knowledge about education with a view to extending one's range of knowing about education. But the activity of studying about education is not the fund of knowledge about education.\n\nEducation is studied by experiencing it as a participant and an observer. The study of education (i.e. undertaking study about the educational process), if conducted as serious, well disciplined inquiry and research, can produce educology (recorded true statements about education).\n\nEducology is studied by reading it. The study of educology (i.e. undertaking study of the fund of knowledge about education), conducted independently or conducted under the guidance of a teacher, can lead a student to learn educology and develop an educological understanding of education.\n\nEducology is the fund of knowledge about education, so it is not accurate to characterize educology as theory, and only theory. Educology incorporates facts with theories. Educologists develop and use theory to extend and organize educology. They also use theory to guide their research. Three kinds of theory commonly developed and used in educological inquiry are descriptive, explanatory and normative theory.\n\nDescriptive theory consists of well defined terms. Educologists formulate and use well defined terms to denote, discern, observe and describe aspects or features in the field of phenomena of education. For example, they use clear, unambiguous, phenomenologically sound definitions of the terms \"teacher\", \"student\", \"content\" and \"setting\" to denote, discern, observe and describe teachers, students, content and settings within the field of phenomena of education.\n\nExplanatory theory consists of a system of mutually implied statements. Educologists develop and use explanatory theory to provide reasons for why things happen as they do in education and to predict what will happen under a given set of circumstances. The predictions serve as hypotheses which can be tested. The verification or falsification of hypotheses provides evaluations of the adequacy or inadequacy of the explanatory theory. Through the evaluation of explanatory theory, the theory is affirmed, or revised, or abandoned for a more suitable explanatory theory.\n\nNormative theory consists of norms (i.e., an explicitly stated set of standards and/or rules) which are appropriate to use in making and justifying evaluations (i.e. judgments about the instrinsic worth of something) and prescriptions (i.e. recommendations about what proper, moral, ethical action ought to be taken). Educologists conduct inquiry about what set of norms are appropriate and justifiable, and they use the norms to make and justify evaluations of states of affairs in education and prescriptions for actions to take in the field of phenomena of education.\n\nEducology is a fund of knowledge, not a discipline. But educologists use a set of disciplines to produce educology. The set of disciplines requisite for producing educology includes the sets of techniques and rules which are necessary for conducting at least three categories of inquiry and research:\nEducologists use the term \"process of inquiry\" to mean the same as the process of asking questions, formulating answers to those questions, and presenting necessary and sufficient evidence to warrant that the answers which are formulated are necessarily true, in the case of analytic educological facts, or very highly probably true, in the case of empirical educological facts, or are valid, sound and fruitful, in the case of educological explanatory theories and educological justificatory arguments.\n\nThe educological perspective is inclusive of the following perspectives in discourse about the educational process or about aspects of the educational process:\nEducologists use one, or a selection and sometimes all of these perspectives in their inquiry. For example, in conducting inquiry about secondary education, educologists typically address the questions of:\nWell founded and warranted answers to these questions are all part of the educology of secondary education.\n\nIn contrast to other viewpoints (in the sense of arrangements of discourse, e.g. sociology, anthropology, psychology), the educological perspective treats the educational process as the dependent variable, and it is used to conduct research and inquiry about the effects of other factors, such as social settings, economic activity and political attitudes, upon the educational process.\n\nTreating education \"qua\" education, the educological perspective conceives of education as a system made up of the elements of teacher, student, content and setting, all standing in relation to each other. The educological perspectives analyzes the relations among these four elements. For example, it examines what set of relations does\nAll other educological questions derive from this basic set of four questions.\n\nOf course, regardless of what questions are asked about a field or how a field of phenomena is described or characterized, that field remains unchanged. Spoken or written discourse about the way a plant uses sunlight, water and soil to grow does not affect the plant in its use of those things. We can use spoken or written discourse, however, to take effective action in relation to a plant to influence its growth.\n\nAnd so it is with the different arrangements of discourse (or viewpoints) about the educational process. None of the arrangements (sociology, anthropology, psychology, educology, etc.) changes the form and function of the educational process. All can be used to take some kind of action in relation to the educational process to achieve some intended outcome or desired goal, aim, objective or state of affairs.\n\nThe domain or territory of educology is the set of all phenomena within the educational process. Inquiry and research from an educological perspective is undertaken about this set of phenomena with the intention of producing warranted assertions, or knowledge, about education. Part of the domain or territory of educology is represented in the following table.\n\nTable 2: Categories of phenomena within the educational process for educological inquiry\n\nThe relationship between educological inquiry and educology is the relationship between a process and its product. Educological inquiry uses a logic of inquiry and a set of techniques of inquiry to produce a set of products of inquiry.\n\nLogic of inquiry. The set of disciplines which is used in the verification of statements (i.e. the warranting of assertions) is the logic of an inquiry. At least three principles of verification are used in educological inquiry.\n\nTechniques of inquiry. The actual behaviors performed and the procedures followed in adducing evidence to verify a statement (warrant an assertion) are the techniques of an inquiry. Examples include conducting surveys, experimentation, drawing analogies, running simulations, locating documents, taking notes, classifying objects, defining terms, clarifying concepts, etc.\n\nProducts of inquiry. The product of successful inquiry about the educational process is educology. Educology is the set of warranted assertions (i.e. statements which are judged to be true) about some aspect of the process of teaching, studying and guided intentional learning. The set can be classified into at least three categories, viz. analytic, normative and empirical knowledge.\n\nDiscipline for forming educology. The logic and techniques for conducting inquiry about the educational process constitute the discipline requisite for conducting sound and productive educological research and inquiry, including retro-search, re-search and neo-search. The product of sound, well disciplined and fruitful educological inquiry is educology.\n\nTable 3: The discipline requisite for producing educology\n\nThe product of successful educological inquiry is educology, and educology can be arranged into subsets or subfunds of educology. Two categories which are critical for the arrangement of the product of educological inquiry and research are (1) the phenomena about which inquiry is conducted and (2) the purpose of the inquiry. The use of these categories makes possible the arrangement of subfunds of educology.\n\nPhenomena of inquiry. The something which is investigated in the act of research (including retro-search, re-search and neo-search) is the set of phenomena being inquired about, or the phenomena of inquiry, or the object of knowledge. Phenomena in the educational process can be classified into many categories. Six of the critical categories are:\n\nPurpose of inquiry. The intended outcome of an inquiry is its purpose. At least seven purposes of inquiry can be distinguished: (1) characterization, (2) description, (3) explanation, (4) prediction, (5) prescription, (6) evaluation and (7) justification.. Characterization is a set of statements which identifies the essential properties which distinguish one category of phenomena from another. Description is a set of statements which elucidates and represents a state of affairs as it exists. Explanation is a set of statements which provides reasons for why a state of affairs is as it is. Prediction is a set of statements which foretells how a state of affairs will be. Prescription is a set of statements which tells what, how and when to do something in order to achieve a desired state of affairs. Evaluation is a set of statements which reports that a state of affairs is good (or bad) or relatively better (or worse). Justification is a set of statements which presents a coherent argument about why a course of action ought to be taken (or not be taken) and/or why a state of affairs is good (or bad), better (or worse), ethical (or inethical), valuable (or worthless).\n\nSubfunds of educology. An arrangement of educological assertions in relation to a nominated set of purposes and a specified set of features within the educational process constitutes a subfund of educology. At least seven major subfunds of educology can be distinguished with respect to phenomena of inquiry and purpose of inquiry. They include\nOther arrangements, of course, are possible. Examples include the\nCulture, curriculum, early childhood, etc. are phenomena of inquiry. Thus, the subfunds of educology in the second list are arranged in relation to some subset of phenomena found in the field of phenomena of education. The subfunds of educology arranged by phenomena of inquiry typically include (1) analytic philosophical, (2) normative philosophical, (3) historical, (4) scientific, (5) empirical non-scientific, (6) praxiological, and (7) jurisprudential educology within them. For example, the educology of women implies all seven subfunds. Thus, within the educology of women, there is the\nSee Table 4.\n\nTable 4: Critical categories for arranging educology into subfunds of educology\n\nAt least four meanings of the term \"philosophy of education\" can be distinguished:\nThe first two are subfunds of educology. The third and fourth are knowledge about educology, not about education. Therefore, they are meta-educology, or knowledge about knowledge about education.\n\nAnalytic philosophy of education (or analytic philosophical educology) is an arrangement of warranted assertions which describes and characterizes the necessary implications of concepts and propositions used in discourse within the process of education. The theorizing of James Gribble, George F. Kneller, John B. Magee, Gilbert Ryle, Israel Scheffler and B. Othanel Smith, for example, exemplifies analytic philosophy of education, or analytic philosophical educology.\n\nRelevant to the explication of philosophy of education is the concept of \"language of education\". The term functions ambiguously. It can mean (1) \"language or discourse which occurs within the process of teaching and studying\", and it can also mean (2) \"language or discourse which is about the process of teaching and studying\". In its first sense, language of education means language \"in\" education. In its second sense, it means language \"about\" education. These two senses can be distinguished by subscripts:\nWhat people say while engaged in the role of teaching or in the role of studying under guidance are examples of [language of education] or language \"in\" education. Educology is [language of education] or language \"about\" education. Educology is only that language or discourse about education which is warranted with evidence. Obviously not all discourse (or assertions) about education is warranted with evidence.\n\nNormative philosophical educology is the same as normative knowledge about education or normative philosophy of education. This arrangement of educology again requires the use of the three disciplines (analytic, normative, empirical). Questions of what is desirable and undesirable for and in the educational process (normative questions) lead on to questions of meaning (analytic questions) and questions of the actual consequences of actions or practices (empirical questions). To settle normative questions competently, one must also be able to settle questions of meaning and questions of actual consequences.\n\nNormative philosophical educology addresses questions such as,\n\nNormative philosophy of education (or normative philosophical educology) describes and characterizes that which has worth in education. The theorizing of Ernest Bayles, John Dewey and John Butler, for example, exemplifies normative philosophy of education, or normative philosophical educology.\n\nNormative philosophical educology is part of educology. It is a subfund of educology. Its focus is upon desirable and undesirable or relatively desirable and undesirable states of affairs, relationships, entities, practices, situations and the like within the educational process (and for the educational process).\n\nNormative philosophical educology is closely related to philosophy of education, but it is not identical with it. Often the term \"philosophy of education\" is used without distinguishing between normative and analytic philosophy. This usage conflates different arrangements of knowledge.\n\nPhilosophy of educology. Given the distinction between two senses of language of education, a third meaning of philosophy of education is possible to distinguish. Language about education can be an object of inquiry, or something about which inquiry can be conducted. It can be analyzed, and true statements about it can be produced. This set of true statements, or warranted assertions, constitutes a fund of knowledge. That fund includes the logic, epistemology, ethics and praxiology of making warranted assertions about the educational process. The fund includes that which is named by the term \"research methods\" or \"research methodologies\", because research methodologies about the educational process are included in the praxiology of \"educology\" (vs. the praxiology of \"education\").\n\nIn common usage discourse about education, the logic and epistemology of forming warranted assertions about the educational process is called \"philosophy of education\", because in common usage, the term \"education\" names (1) \"the teaching and studying process\" and (2) \"knowledge about that process\". But a name which more adequately characterizes the fund is the term \"philosophy of educology\". The substitution of the term \"educology\" for the term \"education\" in the name \"philosophy of education\" (making it \"philosophy of educology\") clarifies the point that the object of knowledge (i.e. that which the knowledge describes, characterizes and explains) is language (discourse) about education. Philosophy of educology includes analytic philosophy of educology and normative philosophy of educology.\n\nIn addition to educological inquiry and subfunds of educology, there is meta-educological inquiry and meta-educology. There is language (or discourse) \"within\" the educational process (what teachers say to students and vice versa) and language (or discourse) \"about\" the educational process (what is said about teachers and students). There can be warranted assertions about the educational process, i.e. verified statements about teachers and students. There can also be warranted assertions about what is said about teachers and students, i.e. verified statements about statements about the educational process. Warranted assertions about the educational process are educology. Warranted assertions about statements about the educational process are meta-educology. The statement,\n\nis an example of educology. In contrast, the statement in brackets,\n\nis an example of meta-educology. It is a warranted assertion about a statement about education.\n\nMeta-educological inquiry. Meta-educological inquiry includes asking and answering questions (with the necessary and sufficient evidence) about (1) the necessary implications, (2) the value and worth and (3) the attribution and provenance of discourse about the educational process. Thus, at least three categories of meta-educological inquiry can be distinguished: (1) analytic, (2) normative and (3) empirical.\n\nAnalytic meta-educological inquiry requires the use of the principle of necessity reasoning as its logic of inquiry. It produces warranted analytic meta-statements as its product of inquiry. Its techniques of inquiry include concept isolation, propositional isolation, concept analysis, propositional analysis, definition (including classificatory, synonymy, equivalent expression definition), identification of definition functions (including reportive, stipulative, programmatic functions), explication, model case, contrary case, borderline case, invented case, related concept, unrelated concept, term substitution, subscripts, invented terms, social context technique, result in language technique, practical results technique. Its phenomenon of inquiry (phenomenon about which inquiry is conducted) is the entire set of discourse about the educational process. Its purpose of inquiry is description and explanation of the implications of all discourse about the educational process. The statement in brackets, \nis an example of an analytic meta-educological statement.\n\nNormative meta-educological inquiry requires the use of the principle of normative reasoning as its logic of inquiry. It produces warranted normative meta-statements (evaluations and prescriptions) as its product of inquiry. Its techniques of inquiry include value clarification, value validation, value vindication and rational value choice. Its phenomena of inquiry (phenomena about which inquiry is conducted) are intrinsically and extrinsically good and bad states of affairs for and within discourse about the educational process. Its purpose of inquiry is description, explanation, prediction, prescription and justification of intrinsically and extrinsically good states of affairs for and within discourse about the educational process. The statement in brackets, \nis an example of a normative meta-educological statement.\n\nEmpirical meta-educological inquiry requires the use of the principle of observation (extrospection) as its logic of inquiry. It produces warranted empirical meta-statements as its product of inquiry. Its techniques of inquiry include location of recorded texts, authentication of recorded texts and citation of recorded texts. Its phenomena of inquiry (phenomena about which inquiry is conducted) is extant recorded statements (i.e. texts in articles, journals, papers, books, etc.) about the educational process. Its purpose of inquiry is description, attribution and provenance of extant discourse about the educational process. The statement in brackets,\n\nis an example of an empirical meta-educological statement.\n\nNot a subfund of educology. Meta-educology does not constitute a subfund of educology. Educology is its phenomenon of inquiry, just as education is the phenomenon of inquiry for educology. Educology is the phenomenon about which meta-educological research inquires. Education is the phenomenon about which educological research inquires. See Table 5.\n\nTable 5: Critical categories for forming analytic, normative and empirical meta-educology\n\nIt is the responsibility of educological researchers to be expert in both educological inquiry and meta-educological inquiry. Both activities are required in the task of competently making warranted assertions about the educational process. It is the educological researcher's responsibility to identify significant problems about the educational process and to solve those problems. It is also the educological researcher's obligation to clarify:\n\n\nTo ask and answer these five questions is to undertake meta-educological research. If the educological researcher omits these questions, the researcher risks derailment at the very beginning of the inquiry. Much work can be wasted and invalid results perpetrated if an analytic question is mistaken for an empirical one, or an empirical one, for a normative one. Each kind of question implies its appropriate logic, product, techniques, phenomena and purpose of inquiry. Analytic questions must be treated as analytic questions for the results to be valid, and so it is for normative and empirical questions. This is why educological researchers, in order to do their job properly and correctly, must be able to undertake expert meta-inquiry at the second level of discourse, i.e. at the level of warranted assertions about statements about the educational process. See Table 6.\nTable 6: Education, educology and meta-educology and corresponding levels of discourse\n\nEducologists distinguish between knowledge about education and knowing about education. Knowledge is recorded warranted assertions. Knowing is the learned ability to perform consciously, purposefully, intelligently and adequately in relation to some state of affairs.\n\nEducological knowledge. Educology is one among many funds of knowledge. It is the fund of recorded warranted assertions about the educational process. It is located in the discourse of books or any other medium suitable for recording statements, e.g. magnetic tape, microfilm, microfiche, computer memory, CDs, DVDs. Recorded propositional knowledge about the educational process is related to knowing about the educational process, but it is quite distinct from it as well.\n\nEducological knowing. From an educological viewpoint, knowing is an ability which is realized (vs. potential). It is learned (vs. being inherited or being instinctual). It is an ability to perform with some intention (i.e. it is a purposeful performance). It is done in relation to some state of affairs. And the ability takes some form, or is manifested in some way (at least five forms of knowing can be distinguished). An example of knowing is that of knowing about education. Knowing about education is educological knowing. It is the learned ability to perform adequately with intention or purpose in relation to the educational process. Knowing is located within the function of people. It is their cognitive function in relation to the educational process. People can know, but not be demonstrating that knowing at any one instant. An instance of demonstrated knowing is an exemplification of knowing. For example, a woman sitting on a bus one morning may be able to ice skate. While she is not ice skating at that moment, she still knows how to ice skate. When she actually ice skates later that afternoon, she is providing an exemplification of her knowing how to ice skate. When she teaches her students that afternoon how to execute a three-point turn, her demonstration of the three-turn is an exemplification of knowing how to do a three-turn organized for purposes of teaching and guided study. As students, people can study the recorded propositions in educology and exemplifications of educological knowing (live or recorded in some medium - sound, photographs, film, DVD, etc.) in order to extend their educological knowing. In doing so, they extend their cognitive function in relation to the educational process. Through their study, they might improve their function with respect to their conduct as teachers, students, counselors, coaches, trainers, mentors, curriculum developers, educational administrators and managers, or educological researchers (including retro-researchers, re-searchers and neo-searchers).\n\nExtension of knowing from studying educology. As students, through their study of educology and exemplifications of educological knowing (knowing-that-one, knowing-that, knowing-how and knowing-to), people can extend their ability to speak purposefully and adequately about education or to speak purposefully and adequately while engaging within the process of education as a teacher, student, counselor, curriculum developer, administrator or manager. They might extend their ability to think to themselves, silently, about education, to write soundly about education, or to draw supportable and warranted inferences about education. Studying educology and representations of educological knowing, under guidance or independently, is a means by which one can extend one's ability to recall educational states of affairs, anticipate educational moments, create educational occasions, or discern educational transactions.\n\nTransience of knowing vs. permanence of knowledge. It is the nature of human beings that we are mortal. We all die, and our knowing dies with us. But educology and recorded exemplifications of educological knowing do not die. While a person's cognitive function ceases with that person, recorded propositions about education remain in the recorded media, and recorded exemplifications of educological knowing also remain in the recorded media. Each person who comes anew as a student to the fund of educology and the recorded exemplifications of educological knowing has the opportunity to extend her or his educological knowing. In addition, new generations, through successful educological research (retro-search, re-search, neo-search) have the opportunity to contribute to the revision and extension of the fund of warranted assertions which constitutes educology.\n\nEducologists distinguish at least four kinds of educological knowing. Each of the kinds may be manifested in at least five forms and at three levels. The four kinds are \"knowing-that-one\", \"knowing-that\", \"knowing-how\" and \"knowing-to\". The five forms are linguistic, physical, physiological, imaginal and emotional. The three levels are preconventional, conventional and postconventional. The four kinds of knowing are distinguishable with respect to the object or states of affairs in relation to which the knowing is performed. The five forms of knowing are distinguishable with respect to the manner in which the knowing is manifested. The three levels of knowing are distinguishable with respect to the degree of expertise with which the knowing is performed.\n\nRange of knowing. The combination of kinds, forms and levels of knowing constitutes a range of knowing. A range of knowing may vary from narrowly restricted to widely extended. It is possible for a person to develop \"knowing-that-one\" without \"knowing-how\" or \"knowing-that\" without \"knowng-to\". It is possible for a person to develop, for example, \"knowing-how\" at a conventional level in a linguistic form, but not in a physical form. A wide or extensive range of knowing constitutes understanding.\nTable 7: Range of knowing as combinations of levels, kinds and forms of knowing\n\nKnowing-that-one. \"Knowing-that-one\" about education is the ability to perform adequately in relation to unique states of affairs within education. A teacher recognizes, is acquainted with and appreciates Michael's moods, motivations, aspirations and capabilities, not as an adolescent or a middle class child or a student in his 9th year of school, but as Michael, in all of his uniqueness. This is an example of a teacher's \"knowing-that-one\". The teacher might be able to manifest this \"knowing-that-one\" of Michael in talking with Michael (linguistic knowing), in anticipating Michael's behavior (imaginal knowing), in making gestures to which Michael will respond positively (physical knowing). \"Knowing-that-one\" of education gives the knower (e.g. teacher, student, counselor, administrator, manager, curriculum developer, researcher) sensitivity for the educational process and for features within the process so that significant and important aspects of the process can be discerned and appreciated by the knower.\n\nKnowing-that. \"Knowing-that\" about education is the ability to perform adequately in relation to states of affairs within education as members of categories. A teacher can, for example, classify Michael's behavior as typical of 15-year-olds. The teacher can categorize Michael's capabilities as characteristic of middle level achievers and relate his aspirations and motivations to what one might expect of middle class adolescents. The teacher might manifest this \"knowing-that\" in writing a report (linguistic knowing), in having a feeling of familiarity and towards Michael's behavior as typical of boys of his age (an emotional knowing), in imagining how Michael will resemble his mates in a year's time (imaginal knowing), in making gestures and managing body language towards boys of Michael's kind (physical knowing). \"Knowing-that\" gives the knower adequacy and power with respect to theory (i.e. \"knowing-that\" gives theoretical adequacy). The knower with \"knowing-that\" about education can describe and explain (i.e. theorize) about the educational process in terms of categories, classifications and relationships of features or aspects of the educational process. The knower can do this, if she or he has \"knowing-that\", with necessary and sufficient evidence and sound inferences.\n\nKnowing-how. \"Knowing-how\" is the ability to use a set of procedures to achieve an intended result. A teacher, for example, starts class by having the children line up outside the classroom, enter the classroom in single file and take their seats as assigned seats. The teacher has learned that this set of procedures achieves an orderly entry into the room and focuses the attention of pupils upon what is to happen next in the lesson. In this example, this teacher is manifesting \"knowing-how\". When the teacher is giving directions, the \"knowing-how\" is being manifested as linguistic \"knowing-how\". It can be manifested in gestures and body language (physical knowing), in feelings (emotional knowing), in anticipation (imaginal knowing). \"Knowing-how\" is the basis for effective action within the educational process.\n\nKnowing-to. \"Knowing-to\" is the realized ability to exercise conscious intention, will and choice in a rational way that is consistent with a set of freely and rationally chosen norms (i.e. standards and/or rules). A synonym for \"knowing-to\" is conative knowing. Conative knowing is a state of \"knowing-to\", as distinct from \"knowing-that-one\", \"knowing-that\" or \"knowing-how\". Individuals have achieved a state of \"knowing-to\" when they can say (and mean and justify it), \"I am willing to do that.\" That state of willingness, or \"knowing-to\", is the same as conative knowing. Conative knowing is the ability to choose rational courses of action which are consistent with standards and rules by which to regulate, control and direct one's self. Conative knowing is the basis for living a rational, principled life. Conative knowing gives us the ability to set goals and make plans in relation to criteria and to make choices consistent with chosen plans and goals. Conative knowing, or \"knowing-to\", is the realized ability to consciously and thoughtfully live consistently by a set of standards and rules. An example of \"knowing-to\" is a teacher consciously choosing to treat each and every student respectfully, courteously and fairly.\n\nOther possibilities of knowing. While the examples just given of \"knowing-that-one\", \"knowing-that\", \"knowing-how\" and \"knowing-to\" were ones in which a teacher manifested the four kinds and five forms of knowing, other players in the educational process are capable of learning these kinds and forms of knowing about education. These include students, counselors, coaches, mentors, administrators, managers, curriculum specialists and any one interested in knowing about education from a professional viewpoint or from the viewpoint of extending one's liberal education. One can develop educological knowing as a liberal study as well as a professional study.\n\nLevels of knowing. At least three levels of knowing are possible (preconventional, conventional and postconventional). The three levels relate to the distinctions of beginner, intermediate, expert and expert innovator. One who has preconventional knowing is just at the beginning of learning some kind and form of knowing about education. The person has not yet achieved the conventions for a set of knowing. At the conventional level, the person has learned the conventions, and the level includes both intermediate and expert performances. The postconventional level is being manifested when the knower is creating innovations which have not yet become conventions. Innovative expert performers within the educational process and researchers who are engaged in neo-search about the educational process, if successful, are performing at the postconventional level of knowing. They are setting new standards or conventions of knowing about education.\n\nFrom an educological viewpoint, understanding is the realized ability to perform consciously, purposefully, intelligently and in a well informed way to resolve challenges, solve problems and achieve desired results within some state of affairs. Educological understanding is an understanding of states of affairs within the educational process. More specifically, educological understanding is the realized ability to perform consciously, purposefully, intelligently and in a well informed way to resolve challenges, solve problems and achieve desired results for and within the educational process. Educological understanding relates to educological knowing in that educological understanding is the achievement of some range of educological knowing at the conventional and post-conventional levels. A wide or extensive range of educological knowing at the conventional and post-conventional levels constitutes educological understanding.\n\nWithin matters educational, experience is highly prized. While it is true that experience within the educational process is important for developing educological understanding, educologists maintain that experience alone is insufficient. All of us experience disease, but this does not qualify us as medical practitioners. We occupy space and exist in time, but this experience does not transform us into physicists. So it is with educological knowing. In order to develop educological understanding, one must engage in experiences with an educological perspective so that the significant and important features of the experience may be discerned, reflected upon, evaluated and appreciated educologically. In order to develop a range of knowing about education, one must, as a student, study educology and representations of educological knowing in addition to having experience within the educational process. Rational constructive action within the educational process requires educological understanding. Without understanding, naive uninformed action can be taken, but not rational, well informed action. If naive uninformed action is constructive, it will be by accident, not by educological knowing. The way to rational constructive action within the educational process is through coming to know as much as one can about education from an educological perspective. Educological knowing requires study of educology, i.e. the reading and comprehension, reflection upon and intelligent action in relation to warranted assertions about the educational process. It is educology which provides concepts, propositions, facts and theory about education and cognitive structure for reasoning about education and for taking rational constructive action in and for education.\n\nLiberal and professional education. Educologists argue that educology has uses in the curriculum of liberal education as well as professional education. Liberal education is undertaken to extend one's ability to function as a free person with free will within a free and democratic society. Professional education is undertaken to function as an effective, ethical and accountable practitioner, e.g. a teacher, counsellor or mentor, within the educational process. Sound educological understanding provides the basis for undertaking rational, constructive action within the educational process and for engaging in sound, well informed discourse about the educational process. Through studying educology, one can develop educological understanding towards several ends, e.g. towards\nThe liberal and professional uses of educology are described, explained and illustrated in a number of educological works.\n\nNaming professional organizations. Another important use of educology is the naming of professional organizations whose purposes are to conduct research, produce knowledge and disseminate knowledge about the educational process. For example, the conflation of (1) object of inquiry with (2) product of inquiry is removed by making the change of name from:\n\nNaming organizational units. Likewise, educology has an important use for naming organizational units whose purpose it is to teach and extend knowledge about the educational process. The use of educology in the naming of organizational units within academies, institutes, colleges and universities dispels conflation of concepts and confusion in discourse about education. For example, the name change from:\nremoves the conflation of (1) object of inquiry with (2) product of inquiry and makes clear that the purpose of the units is to teach and study knowledge about educational phenomena and extend knowledge about the educational process.\n\nStructuring programs, curricula and courses. Within organizational units of educology (university faculties, colleges, schools, departments) the six critical categories of\nhave important applications for making decisions about\nUse of these categories reduces the likelihood of category mistakes, nonsensical contradictions and wasteful duplication in educological programs, curricula, courses and organization of staff. The application of the six categories also increases the probability of arrangements of academic staff and curricula which have coherency, clarity and flexibility, without ambiguity or equivocation. The benefits of using the six critical categories include the likelihood of producing an organization which (1) makes sense to those whom it arranges and (2) contributes to cooperative effort towards the worthwhile goal of extending knowledge about education.\n\nThe role of units of educology. From an educological perspective, the proper role of a unit of educology (i.e. a faculty, school, college, department or division of educology) within a university is to provide a favorable and supportive environment in which\nTable 8: Key roles in a unit (department, faculty, college, school) of educology\n"}
{"id": "22574844", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22574844", "title": "Evangelical Theology Student Council", "text": "Evangelical Theology Student Council\n\nThe Evangelical Theology Student Council (German: „Studierendenrat Evangelische Theologie“) or SETh, is a German student advisory board which represents the interests of all Evangelical [Lutheran] theology students throughout Germany. More than 40 member organisations, consisted of student representatives at state and clerical universities, as well as student convents of Evangelical churches, belong to the SETh.\n\nThe highest organ of the SETh is the three times annually plenary meeting which assembles delegates of all member organisations, residing at places provided by varying student boards within the SETh. Subjects of the plenary meetings are, among others, education and church politics in Germany.\n\nThe SETh maintains relations to the Evangelical Church in Germany (German: Evangelische Kirche in Deutschland), the assembly of the Evangelical Theological Faculties in Germany (German: Evangelisch-Theologischer Fakultätentag), the Standing Conference of the Ministers of Education and Cultural Affairs of the Länder in the Federal Republic (German: Kultusminsterkonferenz), and other related organisations.\n\n"}
{"id": "35567116", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=35567116", "title": "Faculty of Political Science and International Relations, Matej Bel University", "text": "Faculty of Political Science and International Relations, Matej Bel University\n\nThe Faculty of Political Science and International Relations at Matej Bel University (FPVaMV-UMB), (Slovakian: Fakulta politických vied a medzinárodných vzťahov Univerzity Mateja Bela v Banskej Bystrici) is a public policy and international relations teaching and research institution. It offers bachelor's degrees in political science and international relations, master's degrees in European studies, international relations and political science and also grants several doctoral degrees and conducts research in subjects relating to politics, government and international affairs.\n\nAlong with its Slovak taught programs the faculty also offers French dual degree programs in co-operation with the Versailles Saint-Quentin-en-Yvelines University, and English taught Master's and PhD. programs.\n\nThe faculty is widely recognized as one of the leading international relations institutes. The Academic Ranking and Rating Agency ranked the faculty's international affairs and diplomacy program first in nation, and among top in Central Europe.\n\nSince 2009 the faculty headquarters the National Center of Excellence for International Security Studies funded through the RD Program of the EU.\n\nThe faculty campus is located in the historical city downtown of Banská Bystrica, bordering the branch office of the National Bank of Slovakia and the Matej Bel University Rector´s department. The campus consists of two buildings, which are set in a 4-acre urban park overlooking the river Hron. The main building is an early 17th-century chateau, which was completely reconstructed in 1995 and 2010. The second building is an early 17th-century servant's house, which served for many years as a headquarters for the faculty's various student organizations. Partially reconstructed by the Euro-Atlantic Center, it had been the headquarters for the Slovak Atlantic Commission and the Centre of Nations, until 2011 when the newly established Slovak-French university institute moved into this object.\n\nThe faculty has had a distinctive international reputation since it was founded in 1995. The faculty's graduates have, on average, one of the largest salaries in the country.\n\nThe Faculty of Political Science and International Relations maintains a highly selective admission standard for its undergraduate programs. Applicants must have a completed secondary school education, reached the age of 17 or more and possess excellent knowledge in History, Geography, Economics, Current Global Issues and two foreign languages.\n\nApplications for undergraduate programs must be sent before the end of February of the year the applicant would like to enroll. The application has to include a PVSS form, CV, and a certificated Report card from grade 9-12. In order to qualify for the applicant status, the school requires to pass the Maturita which is held nationwide in May. After the Maturita, students have to take an admission test at the faculty. The questions are postulated in Slovak, English and a second foreign language (German, Spanish, French, Russian.\n\nThe content of the questions for programs offered by the department of \"International Relations\" is from the areas of: Politics, World and Slovak History, International Relations and Diplomacy, Geography, Culture, Economic theory and current Slovak and World News. The content of the questions for programs offered by the department of \"Political Science\" is from the areas : Politics, World and Slovak History, Sociology, Culture, Economic theory, Slovak and International Law and current Slovak and World News.\n\nThe main factor for admission is the average percentage from the admission test, assistant factors are not including.\n\nThe school's undergraduate admission rate in 2011 was 34,9%\n\nThe faculty consists of the following departments:\n\n\nThe Department of International Relations and Diplomacy deals with teaching activities related to the following subjects: Diplomacy, Diplomatic and Consular Law, European Studies, Geopolitics of the Slovak Republic, Humanitarian Law, Integration Processes and Basic Principles of European Law, Canadian Studies, etc. The department also offers a doctoral degree program in international relations and diplomacy.\n\n\nThe Department of Politics provides full-time bachelor's and master’s programs in \"International Relations\" and \"Political Science\" as well as a full-time doctoral program in \"Theory of politics\".\n\n\nThe Department of Security Studies focuses on applied political issues for example, globalization and regional problems, socioeconomic geography of regions in the world, geography of the Slovak republic and political geography.\n\n\nThe Faculty of Political Science and International Relations headquarters the National Center of Excellence for International Security Studies. The Center is funded by the Operational Program for Science and Research of the European Regional Development Fund. Its main goals are to\n\nThe faculty publishes the \"Politické vedy\" journal which was run from 1998-2000 in cooperation with the Institute of Political Sciences at the Slovak Academy of Sciences, but since 2000 it has been exclusively administrated by the Faculty of Political Science and International Relations.\n\nAs a part of its internationally focused education, it encourages students to add an international component to their studies by living in a foreign country. The school believes that the experience is a key part of an education in international affairs because it increases understanding of the world by providing students with a variety of new and unexpected perspectives. The program functions as bilateral partnerships with a number of schools.\n\nSome of these include The London School of Economics in UK, Indiana University in US, University of Bologna in Italy, University of Cologne in Germany, Katholieke Universiteit Leuven in Belgium, Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Serbia) - Diplomatic Academy, Complutense University of Madrid in Spain etc. The faculty constantly looks for new partners and schools are added on a yearly basis.\n\nIn 2011, the faculty established the Slovak-French University Institute, in partnership with the French Embassy in Slovakia and two French Universities. The institute is headquartered on the school's campus and its main goal is to support scientific cooperation and academic mobility between French and Slovakian universities.\n\nThere are about 600 full-time students and 100 part-time students at the faculty.\n\nStudent organizations at FPVaMV-UMB provide students with opportunities to get involved in a wide variety of interest areas including academic, social, religious, artistic, service-based, diversity and many more.\n\nThe Faculty of Political Science and International Relations of Matej Bel University is home to the Sigma Phi Kappa fraternity. However, there is no \"Greek row\" on campus, nor is the fraternity formally acknowledged by the faculty. Activities of SPK are wide-ranging and include the organization of sporting events, organizing student parties, participating in fund raising events and more. The Sigma Phi Kappa also publishes a newsletter called PARTA HREJ.\n\nSPK's symbol is a platypus, representative colors are yellow and light blue.\n\nThe school is administrated by the Dean's department. The school's scientific and research tasks are however determined by the Scientific Board. The main governing body of the school is the Academic Senate.\n\nThe faculty's current dean is Associate Professor Branislav Kováčik. The first dean of the faculty was Peter Kulašik, formerly a senior scientist at the Political Science Institute of the Slovak Academy of Sciences.\n\n"}
{"id": "16700171", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=16700171", "title": "Financial Literacy Month", "text": "Financial Literacy Month\n\nNational Financial Literacy Month is recognized in the United States in April in an effort to highlight the importance of financial literacy and teach Americans how to establish and maintain healthy financial habits.\n\nIn 2000, The National Endowment for Financial Education introduced Youth Financial Literacy Day and turned it over to the Jump$tart Coalition for Personal Financial Literacy so that the event would not promote any one organization and instead focus on financial literacy as a whole. The Jump$tart Coalition and its approximately 150 partners expanded the event to a month.\nIn 2003, the United States Senate designated April as \"Financial Literacy for Youth Month\". In March 2004 the Senate passed Resolution 316 that officially recognized April as \"National Financial Literacy Month\".\n\nMany of the country’s financial institutions and nonprofit financial educational organizations promote the month by holding promotional events and creating educational materials that center around effectively handling money and dealing with debt.\n\nMoney Management International, a nonprofit credit and debt counseling firm, created a microsite to support the mission of National Financial Literacy Month, with a step by step process for improving financial wellness.\n\nIn 2003 the United States Congress showed its support for the idea of a financial literacy month. Senate Resolution 48 and House Resolution 127 asked President George W. Bush to declare April Financial Literacy for Youth Month. At that time, governors of eight states had already named the month of April as such. April was named National Financial Literacy Month by the passing of Senate Resolution 316 with unanimous consent.\n\nIn April 2005, the United States House of Representatives passed a bill supporting the goals and ideals of Financial Literacy Month. This bill, and the resolution passed by the Senate, called on President Bush to issue a proclamation calling on Federal Government, States, localities, schools, nonprofit organizations business and the people of the United States to observe the month with appropriate programs and activities. During his term in office, President Bush did not issue a proclamation.\n\nDuring Financial Literacy Month in 2006, The Financial Literacy and Education Commission unveiled a new national strategy in their report \"Taking Ownership of the Future: The National Strategy for Financial Literacy\". The report outlined a series of outreach and education goals for the public and private sectors aimed to help Americans improve their understanding of financial issues such as credit management, savings, and homeownership.\n\nThroughout the years, multiple states have also proclaimed April as Financial Literacy Month including Arkansas, Oklahoma, Pennsylvania, and Texas.\n\nDiffering from the US, November is Canada’s Financial Literacy Month. The month is organized by the Financial Literacy Action Group (FLAG), a coalition of 7 non-profit organizations who work with the federal government body Financial Consumer Agency of Canada (FCAC).\n\nThroughout November FLAG organizes events across Canada to educate and engage with the public regarding the need for financial literacy and promote services available to the public: \n“[FLAG] raises awareness of the need for financial literacy and highlights the programs, services and tools available to help Canadians improve their financial knowledge, skills and confidence.”\n\nThe purpose of this month is to educate the public so Canadians are equipped to:\n\n- Provide for themselves and their family\n\n- Invest in their future and the future of their children\n\n- Understand their financial rights and obligations\n\n- Contribute to the community as a good citizen\n\nSimilar to the United States, many of the country’s financial institutions (such as Planswell, Wealthsimple, RBC) and nonprofit financial educational organizations promote the month by creating educational material and hosting promotional events that center around topics of personal finances. \n\n"}
{"id": "8775964", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8775964", "title": "Firsthand learning", "text": "Firsthand learning\n\nThe first documented use of the term firsthand learning, by Mark St. John of Inverness Research Associates, was in a lecture at the Workshop Center at the City College of New York. Firsthand learning is, at its core, learning from direct experience.\n\nArising from a learner's innate curiosity and the desire to investigate real phenomena, firsthand learning empowers people by providing them with opportunities to figure things out for themselves, to believe in the analytical abilities of their own minds, and to connect with the world around them. It requires close engagement with the immediate environment.\n\nFirsthand learning is an inquiry process that is generative of questions that focus subsequent investigations. The process invites learners to gather and record their observations, to analyze and interpret them, and to arrive at provisional answers. Firsthand learning involves communication of the results of this investigative process. Sharing evidence and discussing findings with others underscores that learning is a social process.\n"}
{"id": "43197490", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43197490", "title": "Friends of Waldorf Education", "text": "Friends of Waldorf Education\n\nThe Friends of Waldorf Education (\"Freunde der Erziehungskunst Rudolf Steiners e. V.\"), referred to as the “Friends” below, is a charity association founded in 1971 registered in Stuttgart, Germany. The association fosters initiatives all over the world for a free education and organisations that work on the basis of Waldorf education.\n\nAs umbrella organisation for the German government-sponsored Voluntary Services, the association places approximately 1000 volunteers per year both inside Germany and internationally.\n\nThe branch “Crisis or Emergency Education” of the Friends of Waldorf Education carries out international War and Catastrophe assistance for traumatised children and young people since 2006.\n\nin 1969, Waldorf education celebrated the 50th anniversary of its establishment and was expanding increasingly throughout the world. In order to bring together a group of people who would support the growing school movement both ideally and financially, Ernst Weissert founded the Friends of Waldorf Education on 10 October 1971.\n\nErnst Weissert himself did not stand for membership of the Executive, leaving this task to his closest assistant and second member, Dr. Manfred Leist. Other members of the Executive were Günter Ziegenbein (member of the Board of the Waldorf school in the Kräherwald, Stuttgart), and Armin Scholter, the administrator of the same school. This guaranteed a secure existence for the association. Many former students of the Waldorf school, Uhlandshöhe became members and have, to a great extent, remained so until today. Both Ernst Weissert and Manfred Leist had, however, other pressing tasks in building up the German school’s movement and within the leadership of the , so that there was little time left over for this association.\n\nIn 1976, certain former Waldorf students had the idea of founding a Worldwide School’s association. Ernst Weissert took up this intention and offered them the Association Friends of Waldorf Education as a legal entity. Andreas Büttner, Nana Göbel and Justus Wittich were elected onto the executive in November 1978, Günther Ziegenbein and Armin Scholter withdrew. The association was renamed “Freunde der Erziehungskunst Rudolf Steiners” (Friends of the Art of Education of Rudolf Steiner). Under the guidance of the new executive, the international support and networking activity was built up, amongst others with the newly founded International Aid Fund.\n\nIn 1994 the Friends were invited by UNESCO to attend the International Education Conference in Geneva in order to present Waldorf Education before an international public. This co-work with UNESCO continued and in May 2001 the Friends of Waldorf Education established official relations with UNESCO.\n\nToday the association employs about 90 co-workers and has two branches, one in Berlin and another in Karlsruhe\n\nIn the executive of the association are Nana Göbel, Bernd Ruf, Henning Kullak-Ublick and Andreas Schubert.\n\nThe work of the Friends consists of different areas of activity, all of which stand in relation to and serve Waldorf education.\n\nThe Friends support Waldorf schools, Waldorf kindergartens, and anthroposophical Special education organisations throughout the world through donations but also through counselling, networking, mentoring etc. The association has no capital of its own, is thus not a foundation, but receives donations and legacies from many different individual donors, from Waldorf schools and other institutions and from foundations connected with it. These it uses in accordance with the wishes of the donors, for is important for the Friends that the donors themselves decide who or what they wish to support.\n\n95% of all donations received by the Friends are for a specific pre-defined purpose. The donors support institutions to which they themselves have a relationship, because of a report they have read or some other personal reason.\n\nIn order to support essential larger investments, the Friends work together with foundations and other aid funds, as well as with the BMZ (Federal Ministry of Economic Cooperation and Development).\n\nSince 1993 the Friends have promoted and organised international voluntary services.\n\nVolunteers work in Waldorf educational or anthroposophicallly oriented institutions, communities (of persons with and without disability), schools, nursery schools and social projects.\n\nA year of social service abroad can be arranged with the Friends through the following (German) state funded programmes:\n\nThe Friends are certified for this international social service work with the Quifd Quality Seal Quifd-Gütesiegel (Qualität im Freiwilligendienst).\n\nFrom 2011, the association offers voluntary services within Germany itself.\n\nIn 2006 the Friends were authorised to offer a year of social service to international volunteers in Germany. This “incoming” programme has been incorporated into the State Voluntary Services since 2011.\n\nAt the end of the 1990s the organisation of educational godparents was taken up as a new area of engagement in order to enable individual children in countries where Waldorf schools receive no state funding, having therefore to rely entirely on fee income, to nevertheless attend a Waldorf school.\n\nGodparents constitute a quite individual form of assistance. Waldorf schools have from the beginning been dedicated and open to all human beings and classes of society. It should not depend on the economic situation of the parents whether a child is able to attend a Waldorf school or not. In this manner the godparents support the individual child and also the whole school community.\n\nThus far the association has organised around 700 godparents. These support the equivalent number of children at over 50 schools with amounts ranging between 25 and 200 Euros per month.\n\nFrom 1994 on, students have engaged themselves on one day of the year for Waldorf initiatives the world over. By means of artistic endeavours or day jobs they collect money for Waldorf institutions and projects that are in need of financial assistance.\n\nWith the help of the Friends and their partner organisations, the Bund der Freien Waldorfschulen and the European Council for Steiner Waldorf Education, the student campaign has grown from year to year. Students learn to become engaged on behalf of others and to take an interest in other cultural environments as well as experiencing how to organise community events and transform their ideas into reality.\n\nOver 200 Waldorf schools participate each year in more than 30 countries on a commonly agreed day in Autumn.\n\nAround 2.5 million Euros have been collected by students on the WOW-Days since 1994 (2013) and have supported over 100 organisations worldwide.\n\nCollected donations are first paid into the account of the Friends of Waldorf Education, who undertake to transfer 100% of the amount on to the projects.\n\nEmergency or crisis education concerns itself with the psychological stabilising of children and young people in warfare and the aftermaths of natural catastrophes. To date over 25 engagements have taken place in nine different countries.\n\nCurative teacher Bernd Ruf developed a comprehensive concept based on the insights of Waldorf education for this Emergency education after he had experienced the results of trauma on children in a refugee camp in Beirut during the war in Lebanon in 2006. Following on armed conflicts and natural catastrophes the Friends have thus far worked in Lebanon (2006, 2013), China (2008, 2013), Gaza (2009 – 2013), Indonesia (2009), Haiti (2010), Kirgistan (2010), Japan (2011), and Kenya (2012, 2013). They are members of the aid organisation Aktion Deutschland Hilft (ADH) and work in cooperation with partners such as the organisation Habitat for Humanity in Chile.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13300579", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13300579", "title": "Fundamentals of Physics", "text": "Fundamentals of Physics\n\nFundamentals of Physics is a calculus-based physics textbook by David Halliday, Robert Resnick, and Jearl Walker. The textbook is currently in its tenth edition (published 2013). The current version is a revised version of the original 1960 textbook \"Physics for Students of Science and Engineering\" by Halliday and Resnick, which was published in two parts (Part I containing Chapters 1-25 and covering mechanics and thermodynamics; Part II containing Chapters 26-48 and covering electromagnetism, optics, and introducing quantum physics). A 1966 revision of the first edition of Part I changed the title of the textbook to \"Physics\". It is widely used in colleges as part of the undergraduate physics courses, and has been well known to science and engineering students for decades as \"the gold standard\" of freshman-level physics texts. In 2002, the American Physical Society named the work the most outstanding introductory physics text of the 20th century.\n\nThe first edition of the book to bear the title \"Fundamentals of Physics\", first published in 1981, was revised from the original text by Farrell Edwards and John J. Merrill. Walker has been the revising author since 1990.\nIn the more recent editions of the textbook, beginning with the fifth edition, Walker has included \"checkpoint\" questions. These are conceptual ranking-task questions that help the student before embarking on numerical calculations.\n\nThe textbook covers most of the basic topics in physics:\n\nThe extended edition also contains introductions to topics such as quantum mechanics, atomic theory, solid-state physics, nuclear physics and cosmology. A solutions manual and a study guide are also available.\n\n\n\"Fundamentals of physics\" at Wikibooks:\n"}
{"id": "10210225", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10210225", "title": "Ghana Baptist University College", "text": "Ghana Baptist University College\n\nThe Ghana Baptist University College is a university college located at Kumasi in Ghana. Its establishment in November 2006 was announced by the Ghana Baptist Convention. The university has been granted accreditation by the National Accreditation Board. The school is one of the leading names in terms of private universities in the nation.\n\nThe Ghana Baptist University has been formed partly from the Ghana Baptist Seminary. The Ghana Baptist University institution is affiliated to the University of Cape Coast through its Department for the Study of Religions.\n\nThe university has two campuses. They are:\n\nThe university college has four programmes.\nOthers include:\n\nGhana Baptist University College is affiliated to three institutions namely:\n\n"}
{"id": "41672667", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41672667", "title": "Gymnasium Kadaň", "text": "Gymnasium Kadaň\n\nGymnasium Kadaň () is a Czech regional gymnasium in the Ústí nad Labem Region of Kadaň. Gymnasium is the oldest school in Kadaň and fifth oldest in Ústí nad Labem Region. The school was established in 1803 with 99 students and continued under the control of the Piarists until 1823. The institute of Gymnasium was then reestablished in 1872 in a new building. The Gymnasium was again closed in 1951 by communist education reform. A new Gymnasium was established in 1958.\n\n"}
{"id": "2466500", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2466500", "title": "Hauptschule", "text": "Hauptschule\n\nA Hauptschule (, \"general school\") is a secondary school in Germany, starting after four years of elementary schooling, which offers Lower Secondary Education (Level 2) according to the International Standard Classification of Education. Any student who attends a German elementary school can go to a \"Hauptschule\" or \"Gesamtschule\", while students who want to attend a \"Realschule\" or \"Gymnasium\" need to have good marks in order to do so. The students spend five to six years at the \"Hauptschule\", from 5th to 9th (or 10th) grade. They finish around age 15 to 17.\n\n\"Hauptschulen\" were first introduced in West Germany in 1950 and are now a part of secondary education in Germany, the other schools being the \"Gymnasium\" for the university-bound and the \"Realschule\" for the future technicians.\n\nThe main aim of \"Hauptschulen\" is to offer young students with average grades or below, most of whom will not attend a university, an adequate general academic education. (However some of the graduates will attend a university later in life, see below.) They largely teach the same subjects as a \"Realschule\" or \"Gymnasium\", but at a slower pace. Subjects that are taught at \"Gymnasien\", but not at \"Hauptschulen\", include Latin and Ancient Greek, while \"introduction to the world of work\" (\"Arbeitslehre\") is taught at Hauptschulen, but not at \"Gymnasien\".\n\nSubjects taught at a \"Hauptschule\" also include mathematics, physics/chemistry, biology, geography, history, religion (or a substitute subject), music, art, politics, sport and language. From the first year of \"Hauptschule\", all children learn English. Once students have obtained their leaving certificate at the age of 15/16, they can go into practical vocational training, start work in the public service at basic or secretarial level, or attend a \"Berufsfachschule\" (full-time vocational school). The jobs for which they apply consequently require practical skills rather than academic knowledge. They may also qualify for further education in a \"Realschule\" or \"Gymnasium\" if their marks are good enough.\n\nMost \"Hauptschulen\" are state-run and thus do not cost any money to attend; however some private \"Hauptschulen\" do exist. Such \"Hauptschulen\" have comparatively low tuition fees and/or offer stipends. The \"youth welfare office\" may also cover the costs of the student attending a private \"Hauptschule\".\n\nThe German state spends more money on students attending public \"Hauptschulen\" than it spends on students attending public \"Realschulen\" or \"Gymnasien\", and \"Hauptschulen\" have a more favourable student-teacher-ratio than those other types of school. \"Hauptschulen\" often have a very diverse student body in terms of ethnic groups, languages spoken at home, religions, social classes, and students' abilities. The schools face many challenges, because they sometimes have to educate students of average abilities alongside students that have learning difficulties or need special attention. In some German states, such as Bavaria, \"Hauptschulen\" offer different classes to their students. They offer the so-called M-classes for it advanced students, regular classes and the so-called P-classes for students who are struggling.\n\nPercentage of jobholders holding \"Hauptschulabschluss\", \"Realschulabschluss\" or \"Abitur\" in Germany:\n\nHistorically, a vast majority in Germany went to \"Hauptschule\"; in 2000 54.5% of jobholders had an \"Hauptschulabschluss\", indicating they graduated from one. However, in the 1970s an educational expansion started and parents started sending their children to better schools. Thus younger jobholders are less likely to hold a \"Hauptschulabschluss\" than older ones.\n\nThe percentage of children attending a \"Hauptschule\" differs very much by region (it may be as high as 60% or as low as 4%). Most \"Hauptschulen\" reside in conservative areas (like Bavaria), because conservative parties want to strengthen the \"Hauptschule\", while the SPD closed \"Hauptschulen\", replacing them with comprehensive schools. In these areas, in many cases, the Hauptschule is not a school of first choice for a student and is attended by students, of whom is believed that they for a number of reasons may not profit from the more competitive environment of other schools.\n\nIn some areas, where few students attend the \"Hauptschule\", and those who do often suffer from learning disabilities, \"Hauptschule\" students have come to be increasingly stigmatized over the last years, the opinion of the general public often being that \"Hauptschulen\" only harbor the bottom end of society. Stereotypes of dysfunctional family backgrounds, absent and/or unemployed parents and domestic violence and alcohol abuse are often cited when describing what is believed to be the typical social origin of these students. Teachers often complain about ongoing difficulties in trying to properly educate them and parents refusing to take responsibility. Moreover, and based on these problems, in some areas it has become very hard for \"Hauptschule\" graduates to find qualified work or begin an apprenticeship, even in professions which traditionally welcomed them and in some areas have now shifted their focus to better qualified applicants, e.g. mechanics, construction or sales. In some areas, an overwhelming majority of each graduating class is therefore forced to accept low-paying unskilled labor or live on welfare indefinitely; many choose to stay in school for another year to obtain their diploma, which slightly, but not fundamentally, improves their career prospects. In 2006 a debate about violence at German Hauptschulen was sparked after teachers of the infamous Rütli School wrote a letter to the senate office demanding the school to be closed down. The letter stated: \n\nBaumert, Stanat and Watermann did a report on so called \"problem schools\" in 2000. \"Problem schools\" according to the scientist were:\n\nThe number of \"problem schools\" that could be identified varied greatly by State of Germany. In Bavaria no \"problem school\" could be found. In Baden-Württemberg only 4.8 percent of Hauptschulen and in Rheinland-Pfalz 8.7 percent of Hauptschulen must be called \"problem schools\". In contrast 60 percent of all Hauptschulen in Berlin, 68.8 percent of Hauptschulen in Hamburg and 95.7 percent of all Hauptschulen that existed in Bremen must be called \"problem schools\". (Berlin and Hamburg have abolished the Hauptschule since then.)\n\nThe graduation certificate is the \"Hauptschulabschluss\", which like the assignment to other types high schools is less valuable than the \"Realschulabschluss\" or university-bound Abitur. \nFurthermore, persons holding a \"Hauptschulabschluss\" may go to night school in order to earn their \"Realschulabschluss\" or Abitur.\nHowever, in some States of Germany students that do well enough in \"Hauptschule\" receive the \"Mittlere Reife\". Students holding a \"Mittlere Reife\" are allowed to participate in classes at the Gymnasium. They can get their Abitur there.\n\nSome States of Germany do not have a Hauptschule. In most Eastern German States, Hauptschulen never existed and still do not exist. In the German Democratic Republic most students attended a polytechnical school, and only a select few attended a specialist school. Nowadays, all Eastern German States offer some kind of \"Intermediate School\" (which may be called Regelschule, Mittelschule, or Regionale Schule). It has to be pointed out that while those schools are called \"intermediate schools\", there are actually no \"intermediate schools\", because no school called \"lower school\" exists. Intermediate schools do not select students on aptitude. All States of Eastern Germany also offer Gymnasien, while all but Saxony also offer comprehensive schools.\n\nIn the German state of Saarland, the Hauptschule has been abolished, and Hauptschulen have been merged with Realschulen to form \"Erweiterte Realschulen\", however those \"Erweiterte Realschulen\" still do stream by ability after 7th grade. They offer a fast and a slow track. The state of Schleswig-Holstein also abolished the Hauptschule and mainstreamed students into the Regionalschule.\n\nThe state of Rhineland-Palatinate has merged Hauptschulen and Realschulen to form a new type of school called \"Realschule plus\", which offers general education classes (that resemble classes held at the normal Realschule) as well as remedial classes.\n\nStarting in 2010/2011 Hauptschulen were formally abolished in the German States Berlin and Hamburg. They were merged with Realschulen and Gesamtschulen to form a new type of comprehensive school called \"Stadtteilschule\" in Hamburg and \"Sekundarschule\" in Berlin (see: Education in Berlin, Education in Hamburg).\n\nIn the United States, most schools are comprehensive high schools and educate students of all ability ranges, as the concept of tracking by test score was largely abandoned there by the 21st century. However, some school districts, such as the Renton School District, maintain separate schools for students who do not succeed in the comprehensive school, usually students who get the lowest test score results. Although most US students get uniform diplomas, some states are adopting high school graduation examinations with very high standards.\n\nAlthough Marc Tucker of the NCEE designed the Certificate of Initial Mastery around the German education model, most US states expect all students to meet one high passing standard, and tests are used to ensure success for all rather than sorting between types of high schools. High school is mandatory until the age of 17–18 in most states, but those who leave before receiving a diploma are considered to be dropouts with a dismal future. All students, even those not going to college, must graduate with the skills necessary to succeed in college. It is thought that the incentive of losing a diploma will provide enough incentive to make that a reality, but some critics doubt that it was ever a practical idea. Students who do not pass the tests will receive no diploma or alternate documents that indicate that they do not meet the state's minimum standards for graduation.\n"}
{"id": "27984169", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27984169", "title": "High-probability request sequence", "text": "High-probability request sequence\n\n\"High-probability request sequence\" is a term used to describe one of several strategies which are used by educators and others to promote and maintain appropriate behaviors in children and in adults with developmental disabilities.\n\nA \"high-probability request\" is a request to which the learner complies willingly under most conditions. In contrast, a \"low-probability request\" is one that often results in a challenging or inappropriate behavior. The \"high-probability request sequence\" involves both kinds of requests.\n\nWhen using this strategy, an educator or parent first chooses a \"target\" behavior that is not usually performed when requested. Then he or she quickly asks the learner to do several tasks that he or she normally does willingly (the \"high-probability requests\"), followed immediately by an instruction that's more difficult or less popular (the \"low-probability request\"). The learner is praised or rewarded after complying with each request. The effectiveness of this approach in leading the learner to identify the target behavior with the previous behaviors, and thus perform it more readily when asked, has been the subject of a number of research studies listed below. (Desirable activities before the non-desirable activity)\n"}
{"id": "56865978", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56865978", "title": "Ida M. Eliot", "text": "Ida M. Eliot\n\nIda M. Eliot (1839–1923) was a writer, educator, philosopher, and entomologist who published one of the first books on caterpillars, \"Caterpillars and Their Moths\" (1902) with Caroline Soule.\n\nEliot was born in 1839 in New Bedford, Massachusetts to Congressman Thomas D. Eliot. Eliot graduated from the Salem Normal School (now Salem State University) in Salem, Massachusetts. Eliot then moved to St. Louis, Missouri where her uncle, William Greenleaf Eliot was a prominent minister and philanthropist. In St. Louis after the Civil War, Eliot founded a school for freed African America students in a church basement. She served as assistant principal of the St. Louis Normal School (Harris-Stowe State College) under her close friend, Anna Brackett. Eliot and Brackett associated with the St. Louis Hegelians, and both later published philosophical works. In 1872 when Anna Brackett resigned as principal, Eliot moved with Brackett to New York City. With Brackett, Eliot adopted a three-year-old daughter, Hope Davison, in 1873 and a second daughter, Bertha Lincoln, in 1875. In New York, Brackett and Eliot started The Brackett School for Girls, located at 9 West 39th Street, and they hired notable female teachers such as Mary Mitchell Birchall, the first woman to receive a bachelor's degree from a New England college. Eliot's adopted daughter, Hope, went on to graduate from college. By 1900 Ida had moved back to New Bedford with her daughter, Ida, and sister Edith. Eliot died 1923 and was buried in New Bedford, Massachusetts.\n\n\n\n[Category:Entomology]]"}
{"id": "5269114", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5269114", "title": "Instituto Potosino de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica", "text": "Instituto Potosino de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica\n\nInstituto Potosino de Investigación Científica y Tecnológica, A.C. (IPICyT, and in English: San Luis Potosí Institute of Scientific Research and Technology) is one of 26 Public Research Centers in Mexico, funded by CONACyT. It was founded on Nov. 24, 2000.\n\nIt is divided into five academic departments: Nanoscience and Materials, Control and Dynamical Systems, Environmental Science, Applied Geosciences and Molecular Biology.\n\nIt also houses the Centro Nacional de Supercómputo de los Centros CONACyT (National Supercomputing Center for CONACyT).\n"}
{"id": "29172870", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29172870", "title": "Integrity Watch Afghanistan", "text": "Integrity Watch Afghanistan\n\nIntegrity Watch Afghanistan (IWA) is an Afghan non-governmental organization that works to increase transparency (social), integrity and accountability in Afghanistan through the provision of policy-oriented research, monitoring, capacity building and advocacy on political corruption and aid effectiveness.\n\nIWA was created in October 2005 and developed a National Corruption Survey which measures Afghans' perspective on petty corruption. Prior to 2010 the Corruption Survey included only a few of the 34 provinces and was not able to give a national overview of the corruption situation in Afghanistan. In the 2010 National Corruption Survey, 32 out of the 34 provinces of Afghanistan were covered but the survey still faces some limitations as it was unable to survey areas that are in conflict and under pure Taliban control.\n\nIWA's research measures the evolution of corruption trends and habits in Afghanistan and produces training tools to raise awareness about corruption. The organisation also works to strengthen local capacities to prevent corruption within the Afghan public institutions, private sector, civil society organisations and the public at large. IWA has three programmatic pillars: Community Based Monitoring, Public Service Monitoring and Extractive Industries Monitoring.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "56085", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56085", "title": "Japanese school uniform", "text": "Japanese school uniform\n\nThe Japanese school uniform is modeled in appearance similar to that of the European-style naval uniforms and was first used in Japan in the late 19th century, replacing the traditional kimono. Today, school uniforms are common in many of the Japanese public and private school systems. The Japanese word for this type of uniform is .\n\nThe gakuran and sailor-style dress have always been a part of Japan's \"growing modern\" culture due to it appearing formal and has existed as a concept. An official from Tombow Co., a manufacturer of the sailor fuku (sailor outfits), said that the Japanese took the idea from scaled down sailor suits worn by children of European royal families. The official said \"In Japan, they were probably seen as adorable Western-style children’s outfits, rather than navy gear.\" Sailor suits were adopted in Japan for girls because the uniforms were easy to sew. Old-fashioned textbooks state that the uniforms were based on the Imperial Japanese Army uniform rather than the said stated of the European. The sides of the uniform had similarity to existing styles of Japanese dressmaking, and the collar had straight lines. Many home economics classes in Japan up until the 1950s gave sewing sailor outfits as assignments. Girls sewed sailor outfits for younger children in their communities.\n\nIn the 1980s \"sukeban\" gangs began modifying uniforms by making skirts longer and shortening the tops, and so schools began switching to blazer or sweater vest style uniforms to try to combat the effect. As of 2012, 50% of Japanese junior high schools and 20% of senior high schools use sailor suit uniforms.\n\nThe \"Asahi Shimbun\" stated in 2012 that \"The sailor suit is changing from adorable and cute, a look that 'appeals to the boys,' to a uniform that 'girls like to wear for themselves.'\" As of that year, contemporary sailor suits have front closures with zippers or snaps and more constructed bodices. The \"Asahi Shimbun\" stated that \"[t]he form is snug to enhance the figure—the small collar helps the head look smaller, for better balance\".\n\nThe Japanese junior and senior-high-school uniform traditionally consists of a military-styled uniform for boys and a sailor outfit for girls. These uniforms are based on Meiji era formal military dress, themselves modeled on European-style naval uniforms. The sailor outfits replace the undivided hakama (andon bakama 行灯袴) designed by Utako Shimoda between 1920 and 1930. While this style of uniform is still in use, many schools have moved to more Western-pattern catholic school uniform styles. These uniforms consist of a white shirt, tie, blazer with school crest, and tailored trousers (often not of the same color as the blazer) for boys and a white blouse, tie, blazer with school crest, and tartan culottes or skirt for girls.\n\nRegardless of what type of uniform any particular school assigns its students, all schools have a summer version of the uniform (usually consisting of just a white dress shirt and the uniform slacks for boys and a reduced-weight traditional uniform or blouse and tartan skirt with tie for girls) and a sports-activity uniform (a polyester track suit for year-round use and a T-shirt and short pants for summer activities). Depending on the discipline level of any particular school, students may often wear different seasonal and activity uniforms within the same classroom during the day. Individual students may attempt to subvert the system of uniforms by wearing their uniforms incorrectly or by adding prohibited elements such as large loose socks or badges. Girls may shorten their skirts, permanently or by wrapping up the top to decrease length; boys may wear trousers about the hips, omit ties, or keep their shirts unbuttoned.\n\nSince some schools do not have sex-segregated changing- or locker-rooms, students may change for sporting activities in their classrooms. As a result, such students may wear their sports uniforms under their classroom uniforms. Certain schools also regulate student hairstyles, footwear, and book bags; but these particular rules are usually adhered to only on special occasions, such as trimester opening and closing ceremonies and school photo days.\n\nIt is normal for uniforms to be worn outside of school areas, however this is going out of fashion and many students wear a casual dress. While not many public elementary schools in Japan require uniforms, many private schools and public schools run by the central government still do so.\n\nThe and the are the uniforms for many middle-school and high-school boys in Japan. The color is normally black, but some schools use navy blue.\n\nThe top has a standing collar buttoning down from top-to-bottom. Buttons are usually decorated with the school emblem to show respect to the school. Pants are straight leg and a black or dark-colored belt is worn with them. Boys usually wear penny loafers or sneakers with this uniform. Some schools may require the students to wear collar-pins representing the school and/or class rank.\n\nThe second button from the top of a male's uniform is often given away to a female he is in love with, and is considered a way of confession. The second button is the one closest to the heart and is said to contain the emotions from all three years attendance at the school. This practice was apparently made popular by a scene in a novel by Taijun Takeda.\n\nTraditionally, the gakuran is also worn along with a matching (usually black) student cap, although this custom is less common in modern times.\n\nThe gakuran is derived from the Prussian Waffenrock. The term is a combination of \"gaku\" (学) meaning \"study\" or \"student\", and \"ran\" (らん or 蘭) meaning the Netherlands or, historically in Japan, the West in general; thus, \"gakuran\" translates as \"Western student (uniform)\". Such clothing was also worn by school children in South Korea and pre-1949 China.\n\nThe is a common style of uniform worn by female middle school students, traditionally by high school students, and occasionally, elementary school students. It was introduced as a school uniform in 1920 in and 1921 by the principal of , Elizabeth Lee. It was modeled after the uniform used by the British Royal Navy at the time, which Lee had experienced as an exchange student in the United Kingdom.\n\nMuch like the male uniform, the gakuran, the sailor outfits bears a similarity to various military styled naval uniforms. The uniform generally consists of a blouse attached with a sailor-style collar and a pleated skirt. There are seasonal variations for summer and winter: sleeve length and fabric are adjusted accordingly. A ribbon is tied in the front and laced through a loop attached to the blouse. Several variations on the ribbon include neckties, bolo ties, neckerchiefs, and bows. Common colors are navy blue, white, grey, light green and black.\n\nShoes, socks, and other accessories are sometimes included as part of the uniform. These socks are typically navy or white. The shoes are typically brown or black penny loafers. Although not part of the prescribed uniform, alternate forms of legwear (such as loose socks, knee-length stockings, or similar) are also commonly matched by more fashionable girls with their sailor outfits.\n\nThe sailor uniform today is generally associated solely with junior high schools, since a majority of (though by no means all) high schools have changed to more Western-style plaid skirts or blazers.\n\nVarious schools are known for their particular uniforms. Uniforms can have a nostalgic characteristic for former students, and are often associated with relatively carefree youth. Uniforms are sometimes modified by students as a means of exhibiting individualism, including lengthening or shortening the skirt, removing the ribbon, hiding patches or badges under the collar, etc. In past decades, brightly coloured variants of the sailor outfits were also adopted by Japanese \"yankii\" and \"Bōsōzoku\" biker gangs.\n\nBecause school uniforms are a popular fetish item, second-hand sailor outfits and other items of school wear are brokered through underground establishments known as \"burusera\", although changes to Japanese law have made such practices difficult. The pop group Onyanko Club had a provocative song called \"Don't Strip Off the Sailor Suit!\".\n\n"}
{"id": "28281084", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28281084", "title": "Johan van Hulst", "text": "Johan van Hulst\n\nJohan Willem van Hulst (28 January 1911 – 22 March 2018) was a Dutch school director, university professor, author and politician. In 1943, with the help of the Dutch resistance and students of the nearby University of Amsterdam, he was instrumental in saving over 600 Jewish children from the nursery of the Hollandsche Schouwburg who were destined for deportation to Nazi concentration camps. For his humanitarian actions he received the Yad Vashem distinction Righteous Among the Nations from the State of Israel in 1973.\n\nVan Hulst served as Senator of the Netherlands from July 1956 to June 1981. He was elected to be the parliamentary leader of the Christian Historical Union (CHU) in the Senate from December 1968 until June 1977, when the CHU merged into the Christian Democratic Appeal CDA. He then became the first CDA Leader in the Senate. Van Hulst previously served as the party chair of the CHU from September 1969 until February 1972. He also was a Member of the European Parliament (MEP) for the Christian Democratic Group from October 1961 until September 1968.\n\nHe later was an \"emeritus\" professor of pedagogy at the VU University Amsterdam and a prolific author with more than a hundred publications. He was also a noted chess player.\n\nVan Hulst was born on 28 January 1911 in Amsterdam, the son of Gerrit van Hulst and Geertruida Hofman. He studied psychology and pedagogy at the VU University Amsterdam.\n\nIn the meantime he worked as a teacher and mentor in Oudewater, Utrecht and Purmerend.\n\nIn 1942 van Hulst was the director of the Reformed Teacher Training College, a Protestant religious seminary at Plantage Middenlaan 27, Amsterdam. Across the street at Plantage Middenlaan 24 was the Hollandse Schouwberg theatre, the main clearing site for the Jews living in Amsterdam who had been issued deportation notices by the Nazi government.\n\nChildren who arrived at the Schouwberg were separated from their families and sent to the neighbouring crèche at Plantage Middenlaan 31 run by Henriëtte Pimentel. The créche shared a back garden with the college that van Hulst directed. \n\nStarting in January 1943, Pimentel and Walter Süskind, a German Jew who had been appointed by the Nazis to run the Hollandsche Schouwberg operation, began canvassing potential adoptive families for physical descriptions of children who could fit into their families without detection. Once the children's parents had agreed, the names of the children to be rescued were removed from the Nazi's registry of Jews who had passed through the Schouwberg theatre. \n\nThen, working with Pimentel, Süskind and dozens of other volunteers, Van Hulst arranged for the children to be spirited over the hedge separating the neighbouring back yards of the crèche and the teachers' college, often assisted by the teachers-in-training or local university students. When the time came to move the rescued children and babies away from the school, they would be hidden in containers such as bags, sacks or laundry baskets.\n\nNumerous methods were used to move the hidden children from the school. In one method, the operation's helpers would wait for the moment a tram passed, blocking the view of Nazi guards at the facing Hollandsche Schouwberg, to cycle away with the hidden child. \n\nThe operation came to a halt on 29 September 1943 when the Nazis sent Pimentel and 100 children from the crèche to Nazi concentration camps. Decades later, Van Hulst described his experience: \"Now try to imagine 80, 90, perhaps 70 or 100 children standing there, and you have to decide which children to take with you. [...] That was the most difficult day of my life. [...] You know for a fact that the children you leave behind are going to die. I took 12 with me. Later on I asked myself: ‘Why not 13?'\" Van Hulst thought twelve was the right number, otherwise the Germans would notice his plan and shut it down. In total, the operation had rescued between 500 and 1,000 Jewish babies and children.\n\nVan Hulst received the Yad Vashem distinction in 1973. During a visit to the Netherlands in 2012, Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin Netanyahu said of Van Hulst: \"We say, those who save one life saves a universe. You saved hundreds of universes. I want to thank you in the name of the Jewish people, but also in the name of humanity.\" Van Hulst replied, talking about the children he could not save: \"I only can hope the angels may conduct you into paradise.\"\n\nIn 2016, the former Reformed Teacher Training College became the Dutch National Holocaust Museum.\n\nShortly before his 107th birthday in 2018, Van Hulst gave an interview on Dutch television, talking about his experiences during the war.\n\nVan Hulst served a member of the Senate of the Netherlands from 1956 to 1981 and from 1961 until 1968 he was a Member of the European Parliament. He also was Chairman of the CHU 1969 from until 1972.\n\nFrom 1972 until 1981 Van Hulst was group leader in the Senate; first for the CHU and from 1977 on for the CDA.\n\nVan Hulst was elected as Chairman of the CHU on 5 October 1968 during the CHU party conference of 1968.\n\nVan Hulst was tasked with preparing for the upcoming general election of 1971.\n\nVan Hulst was an active chess player. At the age of 95 he won the Corus Chess Tournament for former politicians. He won it again in 2010. \n\nAccording to René van der Linden, who served as President of the Senate of the Netherlands, Van Hulst was the first former member of the Senate to reach the age of 100 since the establishment of the upper house in 1815.\n\nOn 22 March 2018, Van Hulst died at the age of 107. Amsterdam's bridge number 233 was dedicated to Van Hulst shortly after his death. The Johan van Hulstbrug is located in the Hortus Botanicus in Amsterdam-Centrum, near the school he managed. U.S. Ambassador to the Netherlands Pete Hoekstra stated after Van Hulst died: \"Mister Van Hulst is truly an inspiration for how one person can make a real difference, even in the darkest of times.\" The Senate of the Netherlands commemorated Mr. Van Hulst in its plenary session of 17 April 2018.\n\n"}
{"id": "1024684", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1024684", "title": "Judy Woodruff", "text": "Judy Woodruff\n\nJudy Carline Woodruff (born November 20, 1946) is an American broadcast journalist, who has worked in network, cable, and public television news since 1976. She is currently anchor and managing editor of the \"PBS NewsHour\". Woodruff has covered every presidential election and convention since the race that culminated in the win of 39th U.S. president Jimmy Carter. She has interviewed several heads of state and moderated U.S. presidential debates.\n\nAfter graduating from Duke University in 1968, Woodruff entered local television news in Atlanta. Thereafter, she was named White House correspondent for NBC News in 1976, a position she held for six years. She joined PBS in 1982, where she continued White House reports for the nightly news program the \"PBS NewsHour\", formerly \"The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour\", in addition to presenting another program. She moved to CNN in 1993 to host \"Inside Politics\" and \"CNN WorldView\" together with Bernard Shaw, until he left CNN. Woodruff left CNN in 2005, and returned to PBS and the \"NewsHour\" in 2006. In 2013, she and Gwen Ifill were named official anchors of the \"PBS NewsHour\", succeeding founding presenter Jim Lehrer. Woodruff and Ifill shared managing newsgathering duties until Ifill's death from cancer in 2016. Woodruff succeeded Ifill as the program's sole main presenter.\n\nWoodruff was born on November 20, 1946 in Tulsa, Oklahoma to William H. Woodruff, a chief warrant officer in the Army, and Anna Lee (née Payne) Woodruff. She has one sister, Anita. She grew up as an army brat, and because of that moved multiple times during her childhood, attending seven schools between kindergarten and seventh grade. Woodruff first moved from Oklahoma to Germany, when she was five years old. She then moved to army bases in Missouri and New Jersey, returned to Oklahoma, lived in Taiwan for a few years, and subsequently went to North Carolina, before settling in the Augusta, Georgia area, when her father was stationed at Fort Gordon. Woodruff went to the Academy of Richmond County, a high school in Augusta. In 1963, she won the beauty pageant Young Miss Augusta.\n\nWoodruff attended Meredith College in Raleigh, North Carolina between 1964-66, initially pursuing a degree in mathematics. In an interview, she said that her political science teacher at Meredith got her interested in politics. She transferred to political science at Duke University in 1966. She was active in the student government of Duke, and was a member of the sorority Alpha Delta Pi. \n\nWhile studying, she worked for Georgia Representative Robert Grier Stephens Jr. as an intern during two summers, but was discouraged from working in Washington, D.C. because of the manner in which women were being treated there. Woodruff decided to enter journalism in her senior year. She graduated from Duke with a bachelor's degree in 1968. She served on the board of trustees of the university between 1985-97. Woodruff received an honorary degree (D.H.L.) from Duke in 1998, and she was also awarded an honorary degree (LL.D.) from the University of Pennsylvania in 2005.\n\nWoodruff applied for her first job in journalism during the spring break of her senior year at Duke. She was hired as a secretary at the news department of the ABC affiliate in Atlanta, Georgia (WQXI-TV), and began working after she graduated in 1968. Besides being a secretary, she presented the weather forecast on Sundays in her last six months at the station. Woodruff left the affiliate after a year and a half to move to the local CBS affiliate WAGA-TV in 1970, working as a reporter. She covered the Georgia State Legislature, and anchored the noon and evening news.\n\nIn 1975, she moved to NBC, where she served as a general-assignment reporter based in Atlanta. Together with Kenley Jones, she covered the southeast, an area spanning 10 states, and the Caribbean. Woodruff was assigned to cover Jimmy Carter's successful 1976 presidential campaign for NBC, when Carter was not yet seen as a major contender. She had already covered Carter's second gubernatorial campaign in 1970 for WAGA-TV. Woodruff traveled with Carter's presidential campaign until she was taken off the campaign trail halfway through 1976. Although she was not on the campaign trail anymore, she kept reporting about the Carter campaign for NBC. After he won the presidency and was inaugurated on January 20, 1977, she moved to Washington, D.C. to become NBC News' White House correspondent. She continued covering the White House into the Reagan presidency until 1982. Subsequently, she was the White House correspondent for \"The Today Show\" on NBC for a year.\n\nWoodruff moved to PBS in mid-1983, becoming the chief Washington correspondent for \"The MacNeil/Lehrer NewsHour\", when the duration of that program was extended to one hour. In addition to reporting on politics, she conducted studio interviews and served as a backup anchor. Woodruff started hosting the weekly documentary series \"Frontline with Judy Woodruff\" a few months later in 1984 after its presenter Jessica Savitch died in October the year before. Woodruff left \"Frontline\" in 1990 to spend more time with her family and at the \"NewsHour\". While at PBS, she covered all presidential conventions and campaigns, and moderated the 1988 vice-presidential debate between United States Senators Dan Quayle (R-IN) and Lloyd Bentsen (D-TX). The debate is remembered for the remark \"Senator, you're no Jack Kennedy\", made by Senator Bentsen.\n\nWoodruff left the \"NewsHour\" in 1993 to move to CNN. She was first asked to work for CNN by Tom Johnson at the end of 1992, and took the job four months later after some initial hesitation. In June 1993, Woodruff started anchoring the political talk show \"Inside Politics\", that aired on weekdays, together with Bernard Shaw, and the international news program \"The World Today\" together with Frank Sesno. Sesno was replaced by Shaw in May 1994. When the daily world affairs program \"CNN WorldView\" was launched in 1995, Woodruff and Shaw became the hosts. \n\nShe remained co-anchor of \"WorldView\" until it went off the air in 2001. In February 2001, Shaw retired, which caused Woodruff to become the sole host of \"Inside Politics\", which was subsequently renamed \"Judy Woodruff's Inside Politics\". During her time at CNN, Woodruff has also co-anchored CNN's election coverage and the news shows \"Live From...\" and \"CNN NewsStand\" on Wednesdays. She was the sole anchor of the 1996 documentary series \"Democracy in America\" as well. She reported on the 1995 World Conference on Women in Beijing, and co-anchored CNN's special coverage of, among other things, President Richard Nixon's funeral, the Centennial Olympic Park bombing, 9/11, the War in Afghanistan, the Space Shuttle \"Columbia\" disaster, and the Iraq War. \n\nShe moderated numerous presidential primary debates, namely three Republican debates and one Democratic debate during the 2000 campaign season and one Democratic debate during the 2004 campaign season.\n\nWoodruff left CNN in June 2005 after her contract expired in order to teach, write, and work on a long-form television project. She was a visiting fellow at the Shorenstein Center on Media, Politics and Public Policy at Harvard University in the fall of 2005, and taught a course at the Sanford School of Public Policy at Duke University on media and politics in the fall of 2006. Additionally, Woodruff started hosting \"Conversations with Judy Woodruff\", a monthly Bloomberg Television program, in which she interviewed people, in 2006. She also hosted the Bloomberg election night coverage of the 2006 midterms. Woodruff continued presenting \"Conversations with Judy Woodruff\" until 2013.\n\nWoodruff started working for MacNeil/Lehrer Productions in 2006 on the multi-media project \"Generation Next: Speak Up. Be Heard\" about the views of Americans between the ages of 16 and 25. The project included a PBS documentary series, segments on the \"NewsHour\", a series of NPR specials, and articles on the Internet and in \"USA Today\". Woodruff returned to \"The NewsHour with Jim Lehrer\" as a special correspondent that same year, and became a senior correspondent a few months later in February 2007. As a senior correspondent, she reported, conducted studio interviews, was part of the political team, and occasionally filled in as anchor. In December 2009, the news program moved to a dual anchor format, and changed its name to \"PBS NewsHour\". Jim Lehrer, the main anchor was alternately joined by Woodruff, Gwen Ifill, and Jeffrey Brown. \n\nLehrer stepped down as anchor of the \"NewsHour\" in June 2011, which resulted in the news program being anchored by Woodruff, Ifill, Brown, Ray Suarez, and Margaret Warner on a rotating basis. Earlier that year, the documentary \"Nancy Reagan: The Role of a Lifetime\", of which Woodruff was the principal reporter, was released. In September 2013, she became co-anchor of the \"PBS NewsHour\", presenting the program with Gwen Ifill on weekdays and alone on Fridays. It was the first time an American network broadcast had been anchored by two women. Besides the \"NewsHour\" itself, the duo also presented PBS coverage of special events, including presidential conventions, election night, and States of the Union. In February 2016, Woodruff and Ifill moderated the sixth Democratic presidential debate. When Ifill died in November 2016, Woodruff became the sole anchor of the \"NewsHour\". PBS initially sought a replacement for Ifill, but in March 2018 formalized Woodruff's position as \"solo anchor\". \"The New York Times\" described her performance on the \"NewsHour\" as follows: \"Ms. Woodruff's measured delivery, with her hands clasped and her voice low, stands as a counterweight to a haywire era of American news.\"\n\nWoodruff wrote the book \"This Is Judy Woodruff at the White House\", in which she described her experiences as a journalist. It was published by Addison-Wesley in 1982. Over her career, she has advocated women's organizations, and was part of a group of journalists that founded the International Women's Media Foundation, an organization that internationally supports women in the media, in 1990. She has served on its board of directors, and is currently part of its advisory council.\n\nBesides, Woodruff has – together with her husband – supported families with children with spina bifida, a condition one of her sons was born with, by counseling them and raising money. The couple helped organize the Spina Bifida Association of America's annual roast, during which politicians roast journalists, to raise funds for the association. The event, which was broadcast by C-SPAN, was held between 1989 and 2008.\n\nWoodruff has also served on the boards of trustees of a number of other organizations, including the Newseum, the Freedom Forum, the National Museum of American History, Global Rights, the Carnegie Corporation of New York, America's Promise, the Urban Institute, The Duke Endowment, and the John S. Knight Journalism Fellowships at Stanford. \n\nWoodruff is a former member of the Knight Commission and a current member of the Council on Foreign Relations and the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.\n\nIn 2003, Woodruff was inducted into the Georgia Association of Broadcasters Hall of Fame.\n\nWoodruff is married to Al Hunt, a columnist and former reporter, and they live in Washington, D.C. They met during a softball game between journalists and staff of the Carter presidential campaign in Plains, Georgia in 1976. Their marriage took place on April 5, 1980 in St. Alban's Episcopal Church in Washington, D.C. The couple has three children, Jeffrey (1981), Benjamin (1986), and Lauren (1989). Woodruff gave birth to Jeffrey about five hours after appearing on air. Jeffrey was born with a mild case of spina bifida, and became disabled and brain damaged after surgery in 1998, which caused Woodruff to reduce her workload at CNN. Lauren was adopted from Korea when she was four months old. Judy Woodruff is not related to fellow television news journalist Bob Woodruff.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38755561", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38755561", "title": "Katharine Worth", "text": "Katharine Worth\n\nKatharine Worth (4 August 192228 January 2015) was a British academic, Professor of Drama at Royal Holloway, University of London. She was the first Professor of Drama at London University and the first woman professor of Drama in the UK.\n\nKatherine Joyce Worth (née Lorimer) was born in Newcastle upon Tyne on 4 August 1922 to George and Elizabeth Lorimer. The family later moved to Newbiggin-by-the-Sea and Whitley Bay, Northumberland, where she grew up. She was successful in obtaining a scholarship to Bedlington High School but left to sit the Civil Service entry exam when she was sixteen years-old. She obtained a BA in English through a correspondence course with the University of London whilst employed as a junior civil servant. She went on to Bedford College, University of London where she wrote a dissertation on George Bernard Shaw for her Masters in Research, followed by a doctoral thesis on American playwright and Nobel laureate Eugene O’Neill for her PhD, under the supervision of Una Ellis-Fermor the College's then Hildred Carlile Professor of English.\n\nWorth initially lectured for the University of London department of Extra-Mural Studies and for the Central School of Speech and Drama. In 1964 she was appointed lecturer at Royal Holloway, becoming reader in 1974 and then professor in 1978. Worth set up a joint English and Drama degree at Royal Holloway in 1978, later introducing single honours Drama. On her appointment as the first professor of drama at the University of London she also became the first woman in England to hold this academic title. In her teaching Worth was always committed to combining theory with theatre practice.\n\nWorth was a distinguished expert on Modern theatre, especially Irish theatre, and a leading authority on Samuel Beckett. Worth published many essays and books – including \"Samuel Beckett’s Theatre: Life-Journeys\" – on Beckett. She also produced several productions of his plays: for example, working with actor Patrick Magee Worth produced Beckett’s television play \"Eh Joe\" and his radio plays, \"Words and Music\", \"Embers\" and \"Cascando\". Beckett gave Worth special permission to work with these texts. Beckett also gave Worth permission to adapt his short story \"Company\"; the award winning production of Worth's adaptation – directed by Tim Pigott-Smith and performed by Julian Curry at the Demarco Gallery Theatre 2–29 August 1987 - received a Fringe First at the Edinburgh Festival. It was later staged at the Belfast Festival (23-8 November 1987), the Donmar Warehouse in London (18 January - 6 February 1988, the Lehman College Center for the Performing Arts of the City University of New York (April 1988), the Princess Grace Theatre, Monaco (18 May 1991), and the 1991 Beckett Festival, Dublin. Worth also produced a double bill of Wilde's \"Salome\" and Yeats’s \"Full Moon in March\".\n\nFollowing her retirement, Worth spent a decade (1987–97) as co-editor of the Society for Theatre Research’s \"Theatre Notebook\", a journal of the history and technique of the British theatre; she also served as a visiting professor at King’s College London for most of this period. In addition she held a Leverhulme Professorial Fellowship (1987–89) and served on the advisory boards of the journals \"Yeats Annual\" and \"Modern Drama\" as well as those of many others.\n\nIn 2013 several rehearsal rooms and a new theatre named after Caryl Churchill were added to Sutherland House, the Regency villa that houses Royal Holloway's drama department. The new complex was named 'The Katharine Worth Building' in Worth's honour.\n\nOn 8 May 2015, Worth’s life was one of those celebrated on BBC Radio 4’s obituary programme \"Last Word\".\n\nIn 1947 she married George Worth, with whom she had a daughter, Libby, and two sons, Christopher and Charles. She died on 28 January 2015 of a viral infection and is survived by her children, George having predeceased her.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "5895387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5895387", "title": "Lebanese International University", "text": "Lebanese International University\n\nThe Lebanese International University (LIU; ) is a private university established by the philanthropist and former Lebanese defense and education minister Abdul Rahim Mourad. The language of instruction is English.\n\nThe Lebanese International University was established in April, 2001, as \"The Bekaa University\" under Presidential Decree No.5294 as, with its grand campus constructed within the western region of the Beqaa Valley; at Al-Khyara, the West Beqaa (al-Beqaa al-Gharbi).\n\nHaving graduated its first Freshman class in June 2002, with a vision of becoming a true national university with international presence, a new campus in Beirut was opened and the name was changed to \"Lebanese International University\", or LIU in short. Another five campuses were later built: next to Sidon in south Lebanon, Tyr, Nabatieh, Tripoli and Mount Lebanon.\n\nLIU created buildings in Aden, Sana'a and Taiz in Yemen as well as two additional campuses in Mauritania and Senegal.\n\nThe Beirut campus is located within a residential area of Mouseitbeh in west Beirut. It consists of seven buildings, Blocks A to G.\n\nThe first building, as shown on the picture, is Block-A. This building is about five to six stories high, and the office of the campus manager can be found at the fifth floor.\n\nThe second building, Block-B, is much larger, and it is about eight stories high. Three stories below, the university has an underground parking space and two auditoriums. Major facilities for students, such as the registration office, the business office, and student affairs office, are located at the first floor of the building. The university cafeteria can also be found in this story.\nThe third building, Block-C, is almost the biggest building among the Blocks, it is about nine stories high. Two stories below considered as parking, Block-C contains at his ninth floor the Mass Communication offices and Specialized Rooms as a Studio equipped with all the needed equipments for the students knowing that the Lebanese International University offers four different Bachelors in the Mass Communication department.\n\nStarting Autumn 2011-2012, three new blocks will be founded to acquire the upcoming number of students, named as Block D, E & G\nmade of five stories each, in addition to the dorms made for the transferring students moving from other campuses to Beirut.\nIn September 2006, the university announced the opening of its Yemeni campus in Sana'a.\n\nToday the Lebanese International University has 9 campuses across Lebanon, in Beirut, Khiara, Rayak, Tripoli, Saida, Sour, Nabatieh, Halba and Mount Lebanon. It also has campuses in Yemen, Morocco, Senegal and Mauritania.\n\nThe Lebanese International University has five faculties:\n\n The School of Arts & Sciences includes the following different Majors:\n\nDegrees Offered\n\nThe Scope is the official student-run magazine published by the Lebanese International University (LIU). It covers LIU news on all campuses as well as recent accomplishments by schools, instructors and students.\n\nIn June 2017, LIU changed its name to International University of Beirut in all but the Bekaa campuses - Khiara and Rayak - where it remained LIU.\n\n"}
{"id": "57527235", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57527235", "title": "Lee Ann Jung", "text": "Lee Ann Jung\n\nLee Ann Jung is an American educator, professor, author, and international consultant. Jung began her career as a special educator in 1994. Much of Jung's work centers on supporting international schools to include and support students with disabilities and learning differences. Jung developed and leads an international inclusive leadership program, the world's largest program devoted to preparing teachers in international schools in the area of special education and inclusion. She was 2017-2018 chair of the Classroom Assessment Special Interest Group of the American Educational Research Association.\n\nJung is considered an international authority in the areas of assessment and grading for students with disabilities and inclusion in international schools. Her notable works in these areas include the bestselling book, \"Grading Exceptional and Struggling Learners\", and a new book, \"From Goals to Growth: Intervention and Support in Every Classroom\". In addition to her five books, Jung's more than 40 articles have appeared in journals such as \"Phi Delta Kappan\" and \"Educational Leadership\" as well as many other peer-reviewed publications.\n"}
{"id": "3146854", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3146854", "title": "Lee Cronbach", "text": "Lee Cronbach\n\nLee Joseph Cronbach (April 22, 1916 – October 1, 2001) was an American educational psychologist who made contributions to psychological testing and measurement.\nAt the University of Illinois, Urbana, Cronbach produced many of his works: the \"Alpha\" paper (Cronbach, 1951), as well as an essay titled The Two Disciplines of Scientific Psychology, in the American Psychologist magazine in 1957, where he discussed his thoughts on the increasing divergence between the fields of experimental psychology and correlational psychology (to which he himself belonged).\n\nCronbach was the president of the American Psychological Association, president of the American Educational Research Association, Vida Jacks Professor of Education at Stanford University and a member of the United States National Academy of Sciences. Cronbach is considered to be \"one of the most prominent and influential educational psychologists of all time.\" A \"Review of General Psychology\" survey, published in 2002, ranked Cronbach as the 48th most cited psychologist of the 20th century.\n\nBorn in Fresno, California, Cronbach was selected as a child to participate in Lewis Terman's long-term study of talented children. He received a bachelor's degree from Fresno State College and a master's degree from the University of California, Berkeley. Cronbach had an interest in educational and psychological measurement due to Thurstone’s work on the measurement of attitudes. This work of Thurstone intrigued Cronbach, motivating him to complete and receive his doctorate in educational psychology from the University of Chicago in 1940.\n\nAfter teaching mathematics and chemistry at Fresno High School, Cronbach took faculty positions at the State College of Washington (now Washington State University), the University of Chicago, and the University of Illinois, finally settling at Stanford University in 1964. In 1956 he was elected as a Fellow of the American Statistical Association.\n\nCronbach's research can be clustered into three main areas: measurement theory, program evaluation, and instruction. This includes several issues, such as the nature of the teaching-learning process, the measurement of variables describing instructional interactions, the evaluation of educational programs, and educational psychology’s aspiration as an emerging social science discipline. His contributions to measurement issues were of great importance to all educational psychologists. These contributions included improvements to the technology of psychometric modeling, as well as reformulations, which went beyond the mathematics of understanding the psychology of test performances.\n\nEducational psychologists have benefited from Cronbach's quest for a better explanation of learning in response to instruction; making countless contributions to educational psychology. Cronbach was able to sharpen the sensitivity of educational research, such as how different learners cope with the demands within different learning environments. He advocated the use of extensive local studies and field methods, producing useful narratives of teaching and learning. Cronbach's contributions include refining research questions which seek to understand the person-situation interactions in educational settings, recognizing the abandonment of strict scientism is in favour of a more pluralistic philosophical and empirical agenda, and emphasizing that the role of context is just as essential as improved interpretations of educational processes. Cronbach developed a framework for evaluation design, implementation and analysis. He believed that the purpose of evaluation to provide constructive feedback for program implementers and clients was incorrect. On the contrary, he believed that it was the design, implementation and analysis which should reflect the feedback goal.\n\nCronbach has proven that research is valuable - to the extent where research serves the purpose of improving some aspect of social reality. This allowed Cronbach to lay out guidelines - much like a road-map - for researchers and practitioners of educational psychology spreading awareness of the challenges and prospects of conducting program evaluations.\n\n\"The special task of the social scientist in each generation is to pin down the contemporary facts. Beyond that, [Cronbach] shares with the humanistic scholar and the artist in the effort to gain insight into contemporary relationships, and to align the culture’s view of man with present realities. To know man as he is is no mean aspiration.\" \n\nCronbach worked on the concept of reliability which had a huge impact on the field of educational measurement. His earliest work was the publication of \"Cronbach's alpha\" a method for determining the reliability of educational and psychological tests. This allowed new interpretations of the index of reliability. Cronbach had created this formula which could be applied throughout a variety of tests and other measurement instruments - gaining an enormous amount of popularity among practitioners. \nCronbach's Alpha provided a measure of reliability from a single test administration thus showing that on repeated occasions, or even other parallel forms of testing, were not needed to estimate a test's consistency (this followed closely from the works of Kuder and Richardson). The Alpha is useful because not only is it easily calculated, but it is also quite general and can be applied universally - for example: dichotomously scored multiple-choice items or polytimous attitude scales.\n\nAs Cronbach’s work on reliability progressed, during the 1950s and 1960s it led to his work on the generalizability theory. He began his work with the aim to produce a handbook on measurement - allowing people to apply mathematical concepts to transform one’s behaviours and events into quantitative results. Cronbach believed that there were two flaws in the concept of taking observed test scores into true score and error components: he believed that true scores were \"ill-defined\" and errors were \"all-inclusive\". The Generalizability theory addresses the question of the relative influence on test performance based on different aspects of how tests are being administered to people. A question that would be addressed, for example, would be: \"will students perform consistently on different occasions?\" \n\nThe Generalizability theory expanded when Cronbach became concerned that an undifferentiated error term covered up information about systematic variations which could be important in terms of test performance. With this in mind, he teamed up with two other members and developed a \"random model\" (introduced by the British statistician R.A. Fisher) where he was determined to figure out the complexities of error variance. This \"G\" theory thus provided a combination of the psychological with the mathematical producing a comprehensive framework and statistical model which identified sources of measurement error.\n\nCronbach's theory goes beyond examining consistency in a student’s relative standing in distribution – it recognizes and acknowledges that the particular item used in any given test is only a small indicator from a wider domain of knowledge. Only such extensions to reliability investigations were made possible by the Generalizability theory - which allowed researchers to address more realistic educational problems, and encouraged researchers to place substantial considerations when they made inquires to demonstrate that validity is important especially when evaluating information extracted from test scores.\n\nWith the help from Paul Meehl, Cronbach placed the concept of validity theory in the centre of educational and psychological testing. Cronbach & Meehl believed that \"...it [is]imperative that psychologists make a place for [advocating construct validity] in their methodological thinking, so that its rationale, its scientific legitimacy, and its dangers may become explicit and familiar. This would be preferable to the widespread current tendency to engage in what actually amounts to construct validation research and use of constructs in practical testing, while talking an \"operational\" methodology which, if adopted, would force research into a mold it does not fit.\" Cronbach acknowledged reliability as an important characteristic of a test, but believed that reliability and validity went hand-in-hand,and at times, 'trade-offs' were necessary in order to improve reliability. The paper, \"Construct Validity in Psychological Tests\", compiled by both Cronbach and Meehl, represents their research efforts for over 50 years on validity.\n\nCronbach, L. J., & Shavelson, R. J. (2004). My current thoughts on coefficient alpha and successor procedures. \"Educational and Psychological Measurement\" 64, no. 3, pp. 391–418\n\nSternberg, Robert J. (Ed); Pretz, Jean E. (Ed). (2005). \"Cognition and Intelligence: Identifying the Mechanisms of the Mind\"; New York: Cambridge University Press, 2005. 345 pp\n\n"}
{"id": "47550062", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47550062", "title": "List of Canadian archives associations", "text": "List of Canadian archives associations\n\nBelow is a list of professional associations that are relevant to the work of archives and archivists. Included are provincial and territorial associations, national special-interest associations, and history/oral-history/built-heritage associations that are specific to a Canadian location. You may also wish to see the list of related associations on the Association of Canadian Archivists page. \n\n"}
{"id": "20847179", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20847179", "title": "List of Rectors of Thomasschule zu Leipzig", "text": "List of Rectors of Thomasschule zu Leipzig\n\nRectors of the Thomasschule zu Leipzig (St. Thomas School of Leipzig), in Leipzig, Germany.\n\n"}
{"id": "36670402", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=36670402", "title": "List of libraries in Belgium", "text": "List of libraries in Belgium\n\nThis is a list of libraries in Belgium.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "31520089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31520089", "title": "List of steam museums", "text": "List of steam museums\n\nThere are many steam museums around the world.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "9559457", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9559457", "title": "Loren Grey", "text": "Loren Grey\n\nLoren Grey (1915 – 2007; born Middletown, New York) was an American novelist and educational psychologist who attended the USC Rossier School of Education.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "19834", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=19834", "title": "Mary Wollstonecraft", "text": "Mary Wollstonecraft\n\nMary Wollstonecraft (27 April 1759 – 10 September 1797) was an English writer, philosopher, and advocate of women's rights. During her brief career, she wrote novels, treatises, a travel narrative, a history of the French Revolution, a conduct book, and a children's book. Wollstonecraft is best known for \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), in which she argues that women are not naturally inferior to men, but appear to be only because they lack education. She suggests that both men and women should be treated as rational beings and imagines a social order founded on reason.\n\nUntil the late 20th century, Wollstonecraft's life, which encompassed several unconventional personal relationships, received more attention than her writing. After two ill-fated affairs, with Henry Fuseli and Gilbert Imlay (by whom she had a daughter, Fanny Imlay), Wollstonecraft married the philosopher William Godwin, one of the forefathers of the anarchist movement. Wollstonecraft died at the age of 38, eleven days after giving birth to her second daughter, leaving behind several unfinished manuscripts. This daughter, Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, became an accomplished writer herself, as Mary Shelley, whose best known work was \"Frankenstein\".\n\nAfter Wollstonecraft's death, her widower published a \"Memoir\" (1798) of her life, revealing her unorthodox lifestyle, which inadvertently destroyed her reputation for almost a century. However, with the emergence of the feminist movement at the turn of the twentieth century, Wollstonecraft's advocacy of women's equality and critiques of conventional femininity became increasingly important. Today Wollstonecraft is regarded as one of the founding feminist philosophers, and feminists often cite both her life and work as important influences.\n\nWollstonecraft was born on 27 April 1759 in Spitalfields, London. She was the second of the seven children of Elizabeth Dixon and Edward John Wollstonecraft. Although her family had a comfortable income when she was a child, her father gradually squandered it on speculative projects. Consequently, the family became financially unstable and they were frequently forced to move during Wollstonecraft's youth. The family's financial situation eventually became so dire that Wollstonecraft's father compelled her to turn over money that she would have inherited at her maturity. Moreover, he was apparently a violent man who would beat his wife in drunken rages. As a teenager, Wollstonecraft used to lie outside the door of her mother's bedroom to protect her. Wollstonecraft played a similar maternal role for her sisters, Everina and Eliza, throughout her life. For example, in a defining moment in 1784, she convinced Eliza, who was suffering from what was probably postpartum depression, to leave her husband and infant; Wollstonecraft made all of the arrangements for Eliza to flee, demonstrating her willingness to challenge social norms. The human costs, however, were severe: her sister suffered social condemnation and, because she could not remarry, was doomed to a life of poverty and hard work.\n\nTwo friendships shaped Wollstonecraft's early life. The first was with Jane Arden in Beverley. The two frequently read books together and attended lectures presented by Arden's father, a self-styled philosopher and scientist. Wollstonecraft revelled in the intellectual atmosphere of the Arden household and valued her friendship with Arden greatly, sometimes to the point of being emotionally possessive. Wollstonecraft wrote to her: \"I have formed romantic notions of friendship ... I am a little singular in my thoughts of love and friendship; I must have the first place or none.\" In some of Wollstonecraft's letters to Arden, she reveals the volatile and depressive emotions that would haunt her throughout her life. The second and more important friendship was with Fanny (Frances) Blood, introduced to Wollstonecraft by the Clares, a couple in Hoxton who became parental figures to her; Wollstonecraft credited Blood with opening her mind.\n\nUnhappy with her home life, Wollstonecraft struck out on her own in 1778 and accepted a job as a lady's companion to Sarah Dawson, a widow living in Bath. However, Wollstonecraft had trouble getting along with the irascible woman (an experience she drew on when describing the drawbacks of such a position in \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\", 1787). In 1780 she returned home, called back to care for her dying mother. Rather than return to Dawson's employ after the death of her mother, Wollstonecraft moved in with the Bloods. She realized during the two years she spent with the family that she had idealized Blood, who was more invested in traditional feminine values than was Wollstonecraft. But Wollstonecraft remained dedicated to her and her family throughout her life (she frequently gave pecuniary assistance to Blood's brother, for example).\n\nWollstonecraft had envisioned living in a female utopia with Blood; they made plans to rent rooms together and support each other emotionally and financially, but this dream collapsed under economic realities. In order to make a living, Wollstonecraft, her sisters, and Blood set up a school together in Newington Green, a Dissenting community. Blood soon became engaged and after their marriage her husband, Hugh Skeys, took her to Lisbon, Portugal, to improve her health, which had always been precarious. Despite the change of surroundings Blood's health further deteriorated when she became pregnant, and in 1785 Wollstonecraft left the school and followed Blood to nurse her, but to no avail. Moreover, her abandonment of the school led to its failure. Blood's death devastated Wollstonecraft and was part of the inspiration for her first novel, \"\" (1788).\n\nAfter Blood's death, Wollstonecraft's friends helped her obtain a position as governess to the daughters of the Anglo-Irish Kingsborough family in Ireland. Although she could not get along with Lady Kingsborough, the children found her an inspiring instructor; Margaret King would later say she \"had freed her mind from all superstitions\". Some of Wollstonecraft's experiences during this year would make their way into her only children's book, \"Original Stories from Real Life\" (1788).\n\nFrustrated by the limited career options open to respectable yet poor women—an impediment which Wollstonecraft eloquently describes in the chapter of \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\" entitled \"Unfortunate Situation of Females, Fashionably Educated, and Left Without a Fortune\"—she decided, after only a year as a governess, to embark upon a career as an author. This was a radical choice, since, at the time, few women could support themselves by writing. As she wrote to her sister Everina in 1787, she was trying to become \"the first of a new genus\". She moved to London and, assisted by the liberal publisher Joseph Johnson, found a place to live and work to support herself. She learned French and German and translated texts, most notably \"Of the Importance of Religious Opinions\" by Jacques Necker and \"Elements of Morality, for the Use of Children\" by Christian Gotthilf Salzmann. She also wrote reviews, primarily of novels, for Johnson's periodical, the \"Analytical Review\". Wollstonecraft's intellectual universe expanded during this time, not only from the reading that she did for her reviews but also from the company she kept: she attended Johnson's famous dinners and met such luminaries as the radical pamphleteer Thomas Paine and the philosopher William Godwin. The first time Godwin and Wollstonecraft met, they were disappointed in each other. Godwin had come to hear Paine, but Wollstonecraft assailed him all night long, disagreeing with him on nearly every subject. Johnson himself, however, became much more than a friend; she described him in her letters as a father and a brother.\n\nWhile in London, Wollstonecraft pursued a relationship with the artist Henry Fuseli, even though he was already married. She was, she wrote, enraptured by his genius, \"the grandeur of his soul, that quickness of comprehension, and lovely sympathy\". She proposed a platonic living arrangement with Fuseli and his wife, but Fuseli's wife was appalled, and he broke off the relationship with Wollstonecraft. After Fuseli's rejection, Wollstonecraft decided to travel to France to escape the humiliation of the incident, and to participate in the revolutionary events that she had just celebrated in her recent \"Vindication of the Rights of Men\" (1790). She had written the \"Rights of Men\" in response to the Whig MP Edmund Burke's conservative critique of the French Revolution in \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790) and it made her famous overnight. \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" was published on 1 November 1790, and so angered Wollstonecraft that she spent the rest of the month writing her rebuttal. \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men, in a Letter to the Right Honourable Edmund Burke\" was published on 29 November 1790, initially anonymously; the second edition of \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\" was published on 18 December, and this time the publisher revealed Wollstonecraft as the author.\n\nWollstonecraft called the French Revolution a \"glorious \"chance\" to obtain more virtue and happiness than hitherto blessed our globe\". Against Burke's dismissal of the Third Estate as men of no account, Wollstonecraft wrote: \"Time many show, that this obscure throng knew more of the human heart and of legislation than the profligates of rank, emasculated by hereditary effeminacy\". About the events of 5–6 October 1789, when the royal family was marched from Versailles to Paris by a group of angry housewives, Burke praised Queen Marie Antoinette as a symbol of the refined elegance of the \"ancien régime\", who was surrounded by \"furies from hell, in the abused shape of the vilest of women\". Wollstonecraft by contrast wrote of the same event: \"Probably you [Burke] mean women who gained a livelihood by selling vegetables or fish, who never had any advantages of education\".\n\nWollstonecraft was compared with such leading lights as the theologian and controversialist Joseph Priestley and Paine, whose \"Rights of Man\" (1791) would prove to be the most popular of the responses to Burke. She pursued the ideas she had outlined in \"Rights of Men\" in \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" (1792), her most famous and influential work. Wollstonecraft's fame extended across the English channel, for when the French statesmen Charles Maurice de Talleyrand-Périgord visited London in 1792, he visited her, during which she asked that French girls be given the same right to an education that French boys were being offered by the new regime in France.\n\nWollstonecraft left for Paris in December 1792 and arrived about a month before Louis XVI was guillotined. Britain and France were on the brink of war when she left for Paris, and many advised her not to go. France was in turmoil. She sought out other British visitors such as Helen Maria Williams and joined the circle of expatriates then in the city. On 26 December 1792, Wollstonecraft saw the former king, Louis XVI, being taken to be tried before the National Assembly, and much to her own surprise, found the sight of Louis riding down the streets as a prisoner in a wagon \"made the tears flow insensibly from my eyes, when I saw Louis sitting, with more dignity than I expected from his character, in a hackney coach going to meet death, where so many of his race have triumphed\". During her time in Paris, Wollstonecraft associated mostly with the moderate Girondins rather than the more radical Jacobins.\n\nIn February 1793, France declared war on Britain, and Wollstonecraft attempted to leave France for Switzerland, but was declined permission. In March 1793, the Jacobin-dominated Committee of Public Safety came to power in France, instituting a totalitarian regime meant to mobilise France for the first \"total war\", and life become very difficult for foreigners in France. All foreigners living in France were put under police surveillance, had to produce six written statements from Frenchmen testifying to their loyalty to the republic in order to be granted residency permits, and on 12 April 1793 all foreigners were forbidden to leave France. Despite her sympathy for the revolution, life for Wollstonecraft become very uncomfortable, all the more so as the Girondins had lost out to the Jacobins. Some of Wollstonecraft's French friends lost their heads to the guillotine as the Jacobins set out to annihilate all of their enemies.\n\nHaving just written the \"Rights of Woman\", Wollstonecraft was determined to put her ideas to the test, and in the stimulating intellectual atmosphere of the French revolution she attempted her most experimental romantic attachment yet: she met and fell passionately in love with Gilbert Imlay, an American adventurer. Wollstonecraft put her own principles in practice by sleeping with Imlay despite not being married, which was not something that was considered acceptable behavior from a \"respectable\" British woman at the time. Whether or not she was interested in marriage, he was not, and she appears to have fallen in love with an idealized portrait of the man. While Wollstonecraft had rejected the sexual component of relationships in the \"Rights of Woman\", Imlay awakened her passions and her interest in sex. Wollstonecraft was to a certain extent disillusioned by what she saw in France, writing that the people under the republic were still behaved slavishly to those who held power while the government remained \"venal\" and \"brutal\". Despite her disenchantment, Wollstonecraft wrote: \"I cannot yet give up the hope, that a fairer day is dawning on Europe, though I must hesitatingly observe, that little is to be expected from the narrow principle of commerce, which seems everywhere to be shoving aside \"the principle of honor\" of the \"noblesse\". For the same pride of office, the same desire of power are still visible; with this aggravation, that, fearing to return to obscurity, after having but just acquired a relish for distinction, each hero, or philosopher, for all are dubbed with these new titles, endeavors to make hay while the sun shines.\" Wollstonecraft was offended by the way that the Jacobins refused to grant Frenchwomen equal rights, denounced \"Amazons\", and made it clear the role of women was to conform to Rousseau's ideal of as a helper to men. On 16 October 1793, Marie Antoinette was guillotined with one of the charges that she been convicted of being she had committed incest with her son. Though Wollstonecraft disliked the former queen, she was troubled by the way that the Jacobins had made Marie Antoinette's alleged perverted sexuality that had caused her to engage in an incestuous relationship with the Dauphin one of the central reasons for why the French people should hate her. On 31 October 1793, most of the Girondin leaders were guillotined, which caused Wollstonecraft to faint when Imlay broke the news to her.\n\nTo protect Wollstonecraft, Imlay registered her as his wife in 1793, even though they were not married. After declaring war on Britain, France was blockaded by the Royal Navy, which caused shortages that worsened the problem of inflation. Imlay engaged in blockade-running, chartering ships to bring in food and soap from America into France, which explained why both he and Wollstonecraft were not arrested during the Reign of Terror. As the Terror began in France with arrests and executions occurring daily, Wollstonecraft came under suspicion as someone from a nation that was at war with France and who was known to be a friend of leading Girondins, which led Imlay to make a false statement to the U.S. embassy in Paris that he had married her, automatically making her into an American citizen, in order to protect her from arrest. Some of her friends were not so lucky; many, like Thomas Paine, were arrested, and some were even guillotined (Wollstonecraft's sisters believed she had been imprisoned). Wollstonecraft called life under the Jacobins \"nightmarish\" with gigantic parades in the day where everyone had to cheer, lest they fall under suspicion of not being committed to the republic, and police raids at night to arrest \"enemies of the republic\". In a letter to her sister Everina, written in March 1794, Wollstonecraft wrote: It is impossible for you to have any idea of the impression the sad scenes I have been a witness to have left on my mind...death and misery, in every shape of terrour, haunts this devoted country – I certainly am glad that I came to France, because I never could have had else a just opinion of the most extraordinary event that has ever been recorded.\n\nWollstonecraft soon became pregnant by Imlay, and on 14 May 1794 she gave birth to her first child, Fanny, naming her after perhaps her closest friend. Wollstonecraft was overjoyed; she wrote to a friend: \"My little Girl begins to suck so MANFULLY that her father reckons saucily on her writing the second part of the R[igh]ts of Woman\" (emphasis hers). She continued to write avidly, despite not only her pregnancy and the burdens of being a new mother alone in a foreign country, but also the growing tumult of the French Revolution. While at Le Havre in northern France, she wrote a history of the early revolution, \"An Historical and Moral View of the French Revolution\", which was published in London in December 1794. Imlay, unhappy with the domestic-minded and maternal Wollstonecraft, eventually left her. He promised that he would return to Le Havre where she went to give birth to her child, but his delays in writing to her and his long absences convinced Wollstonecraft that he had found another woman. Her letters to him are full of needy expostulations, explained by most critics as the expressions of a deeply depressed woman but by some as a result of her circumstances—alone with an infant in the middle of a revolution.\n\nIn July 1794, Wollstonecraft welcomed the fall of the Jacobins, predicting this would be followed with a restoration of freedom of press in France, which led her to return to Paris. In August 1794, Imlay departed for London and promised to return soon. The winter of 1794–95 was the coldest winter in Europe for over a century, which reduced Wollstonecraft and her daughter Fanny down to desperate circumstances. The river Seine froze that winter, which made it impossible for ships to bring food and coal to Paris, leading to widespread starvation and deaths from the cold in that city. Wollstonecraft continued to write to Imlay, asking him to return to France at once, declaring she still had faith in the revolution and did not wish to return to Britain. In 1793, the British government began a crackdown on radicals, suspending civil liberties, imposing drastic censorship, and trying for treason all suspected of sympathy with the revolution, which led Wollstonecraft to fear she would be imprisoned if she returned. After she left France on 7 April 1795, she continued to refer to herself as \"Mrs Imlay\", even to her sisters, in order to bestow legitimacy upon her child.\n\nThe British historian Tom Furniss called \"An Historical and Moral View of the French Revolution\" the most neglected of Wollstonecraft's books, which was first published in London in 1794, and a second edition did not appear until 1989. The reason for this neglect is later generations were more interested in her feminist writings rather her account of the French Revolution, which Furniss regretted as he called \"An Historical and Moral View of the French Revolution\" easily Wollstonecraft's \"best work\". Wollstonecraft was not trained as a historian, but she used all sorts of journals, letters and documents recounting how ordinary people in France reacted to the Revolution, and attempted to counter-act what Furniss called the \"hysterical\" anti-revolutionary mood in Britain, which depicted the Revolution as due to the entire French nation apparently all going mad. Wollstonecraft argued that the revolution was not due to the French people all going insane in 1789 as popular opinion in Britain held, but was due to a set of social, economic and political conditions that left no other way out of the crisis that gripped France in 1789. \"An Historical and Moral View of the French Revolution\" presented a difficult balancing act for Wollstonecraft as she condemned the Jacobin regime and the Reign of Terror, but at same time, she continued to argue that revolution was a great achievement, which led her to stop her history in late 1789 rather than write about the Terror of 1793–94. Burke had ended the \"Reflections\" with reference to the events of 5–6 October 1789, when a group of women from Paris forced the French royal family from the Palace of Versailles to Paris. Burke called the women \"furies from hell\" while Wollstonecraft called the women just merely ordinary housewives angry about a lack of bread to feed their families. Against Burke's idealised portrait of Marie Antoinette as a noble victim of a mob, Wollstonecraft portrayed the queen as a \"femme fatale\", a seductive, scheming and dangerous woman. Wollstonecraft argued that the values of the aristocracy were corrupting ones for women since in a monarchy, the main purpose of a woman was to bear sons to continue the house, which essentially reduced a woman's value down to her womb. Moreover, Wollstonecraft argued unless a queen was a queen regnant, most queens were queen consorts, which meant a woman to exercise influence via her husband or son, which encouraged manipulative behavior. Wollstonecraft argued that aristocratic values by emphasising the value of a woman's body and her ability to be charming over the value of her mind and character had encouraged women like Marie Antoinette to be manipulative and ruthless, making the queen into a corrupted and corrupting product of the \"ancien régime\".\n\nSeeking Imlay, Wollstonecraft returned to London in April 1795, but he rejected her. In May 1795 she attempted to commit suicide, probably with laudanum, but Imlay saved her life (although it is unclear how). In a last attempt to win back Imlay, she embarked upon some business negotiations for him in Scandinavia, trying to recoup some of his losses. Wollstonecraft undertook this hazardous trip with only her young daughter and a maid. She recounted her travels and thoughts in letters to Imlay, many of which were eventually published as \"Letters Written During a Short Residence in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark\" in 1796. When she returned to England and came to the full realization that her relationship with Imlay was over, she attempted suicide for the second time, leaving a note for Imlay:\n\nShe then went out on a rainy night and \"to make her clothes heavy with water, she walked up and down about half an hour\" before jumping into the River Thames, but a stranger saw her jump and rescued her. Wollstonecraft considered her suicide attempt deeply rational, writing after her rescue, I have only to lament, that, when the bitterness of death was past, I was inhumanly brought back to life and misery. But a fixed determination is not to be baffled by disappointment; nor will I allow that to be a frantic attempt, which was one of the calmest acts of reason. In this respect, I am only accountable to myself. Did I care for what is termed reputation, it is by other circumstances that I should be dishonoured.\n\nGradually, Wollstonecraft returned to her literary life, becoming involved with Joseph Johnson's circle again, in particular with Mary Hays, Elizabeth Inchbald, and Sarah Siddons through William Godwin. Godwin and Wollstonecraft's unique courtship began slowly, but it eventually became a passionate love affair. Godwin had read her \"Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark\" and later wrote that \"If ever there was a book calculated to make a man in love with its author, this appears to me to be the book. She speaks of her sorrows, in a way that fills us with melancholy, and dissolves us in tenderness, at the same time that she displays a genius which commands all our admiration.\" Once Wollstonecraft became pregnant, they decided to marry so that their child would be legitimate. Their marriage revealed the fact that Wollstonecraft had never been married to Imlay, and as a result she and Godwin lost many friends. Godwin received further criticism because he had advocated the abolition of marriage in his philosophical treatise \"Political Justice\". After their marriage on 29 March 1797, Godwin and Wollstonecraft moved to 29 The Polygon, Somers Town. Godwin rented an apartment 20 doors away at 17 Evesham Buildings in Chalton Street as a study, so that they could both still retain their independence; they often communicated by letter. By all accounts, theirs was a happy and stable, though brief, relationship.\n\nOn 30 August 1797, Wollstonecraft gave birth to her second daughter, Mary. Although the delivery seemed to go well initially, the placenta broke apart during the birth and became infected; puerperal (childbed) fever was a common and often fatal occurrence in the eighteenth century. After several days of agony, Wollstonecraft died of septicaemia on 10 September. Godwin was devastated: he wrote to his friend Thomas Holcroft, \"I firmly believe there does not exist her equal in the world. I know from experience we were formed to make each other happy. I have not the least expectation that I can now ever know happiness again.\" She was buried at Old Saint Pancras Churchyard, where her tombstone reads, \"Mary Wollstonecraft Godwin, Author of \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\": Born 27 April 1759: Died 10 September 1797.\" (In 1851, her remains were moved by her grandson Percy Florence Shelley to his family tomb in St Peter's Church, Bournemouth.) Her monument in the churchyard lies to the north-east of the church just north of Sir John Soane's grave. Her husband was buried with her on his death in 1836, as was his second wife, Mary Jane Godwin (1766–1841).\n\nIn January 1798 Godwin published his \"Memoirs of the Author of A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\". Although Godwin felt that he was portraying his wife with love, compassion, and sincerity, many readers were shocked that he would reveal Wollstonecraft's illegitimate children, love affairs, and suicide attempts. The Romantic poet Robert Southey accused him of \"the want of all feeling in stripping his dead wife naked\" and vicious satires such as \"The Unsex'd Females\" were published. Godwin's \"Memoirs\" portrays Wollstonecraft as a woman deeply invested in feeling who was balanced by his reason and as more of a religious sceptic than her own writings suggest. Godwin's views of Wollstonecraft were perpetuated throughout the nineteenth century and resulted in poems such as \"Wollstonecraft and Fuseli\" by British poet Robert Browning and that by William Roscoe which includes the lines:\n<poem>\n</poem>\n\nWollstonecraft has what scholar Cora Kaplan labelled in 2002 a \"curious\" legacy that has evolved over time: \"for an author-activist adept in many genres ... up until the last quarter-century Wollstonecraft's life has been read much more closely than her writing\". After the devastating effect of Godwin's \"Memoirs\", Wollstonecraft's reputation lay in tatters for nearly a century; she was pilloried by such writers as Maria Edgeworth, who patterned the \"freakish\" Harriet Freke in \"Belinda\" (1801) after her. Other novelists such as Mary Hays, Charlotte Turner Smith, Fanny Burney, and Jane West created similar figures, all to teach a \"moral lesson\" to their readers. (Hays had been a close friend, and helped nurse her in her dying days.)\n\nIn contrast, there was one writer of the generation after Wollstonecraft who apparently did not share the judgmental views of her contemporaries. Jane Austen never mentioned the earlier woman by name, but several of her novels contain positive allusions to Wollstonecraft’s work. The American literary scholar Anne K. Mellor notes several examples. In \"Pride and Prejudice\", Mr Wickham seems to be based upon the sort of man Wollstonecraft claimed that standing armies produce, while the sarcastic remarks of protagonist Elizabeth Bennet about \"female accomplishments\" closely echo Wollstonecraft's condemnation of these activities. The balance a woman must strike between feelings and reason in \"Sense and Sensibility\" follows what Wollstonecraft recommended in her novel \"Mary\", while the moral equivalence Austen drew in \"Mansfield Park\" between slavery and the treatment of women in British society tracks one of Wollstonecraft's favorite arguments. In \"Persuasion\", Austen's characterization of Anne Eliot (as well as her late mother before her) as better qualified than her father to manage the family estate also echoes a Wollstonecraft thesis.\n\nScholar Virginia Sapiro states that few read Wollstonecraft's works during the nineteenth century as \"her attackers implied or stated that no self-respecting woman would read her work\". (Still, as Craciun points out, new editions of \"Rights of Woman\" appeared in the UK in the 1840s and in the US in the 1830s, 1840s, and 1850s.) If readers were few, then \"many\" were inspired; one such reader was Elizabeth Barrett Browning, who read \"Rights of Woman\" at age 12 and whose poem \"Aurora Leigh\" reflected Wollstonecraft's unwavering focus on education. Lucretia Mott, a Quaker minister, and Elizabeth Cady Stanton, Americans who met in 1840 at the World Anti-Slavery Convention in London, discovered they both had read Wollstonecraft, and they agreed upon the need for (what became) the Seneca Falls Convention, an influential women's rights meeting held in 1848. Another woman who read Wollstonecraft was George Eliot, a prolific writer of reviews, articles, novels, and translations. In 1855, she devoted an essay to the roles and rights of women, comparing Wollstonecraft and Margaret Fuller. Fuller was an American journalist, critic, and women's rights activist who, like Wollstonecraft, had travelled to the Continent and had been involved in the struggle for reform (in this case the Roman Republic)—and she had a child by a man without marrying him. Wollstonecraft's children's tales were adapted by Charlotte Mary Yonge in 1870.\n\nWollstonecraft's work was exhumed with the rise of the movement to give women a political voice. First was an attempt at rehabilitation in 1879 with the publication of Wollstonecraft's \"Letters to Imlay, with prefatory memoir\" by Charles Kegan Paul. Then followed the first full-length biography, which was by Elizabeth Robins Pennell; it appeared in 1884 as part of a series by the Roberts Brothers on famous women. Millicent Garrett Fawcett, a suffragist and later president of the National Union of Women's Suffrage Societies, wrote the introduction to the centenary edition (i.e. 1892) of the \"Rights of Woman\"; it cleansed the memory of Wollstonecraft and claimed her as the foremother of the struggle for the vote. By 1898, Wollstonecraft was the subject of a first doctoral thesis and its resulting book.\n\nWith the advent of the modern feminist movement, women as politically dissimilar from each other as Virginia Woolf and Emma Goldman embraced Wollstonecraft's life story. By 1929 Woolf described Wollstonecraft—her writing, arguments, and \"experiments in living\"—as immortal: \"she is alive and active, she argues and experiments, we hear her voice and trace her influence even now among the living\". Others, however, continued to decry Wollstonecraft's lifestyle. A biography published in 1932 refers to recent reprints of her works, incorporating new research, and to a \"study\" in 1911, a play in 1922, and another biography in 1924. Interest in her never completely died, with full-length biographies in 1937 and 1951\n\nWith the emergence of feminist criticism in academia in the 1960s and 1970s, Wollstonecraft's works returned to prominence. Their fortunes reflected that of the second wave of the North American feminist movement itself; for example, in the early 1970s, six major biographies of Wollstonecraft were published that presented her \"passionate life in apposition to [her] radical and rationalist agenda\". The feminist artwork \"The Dinner Party\", first exhibited in 1979, features a place setting for Wollstonecraft. In the 1980s and 1990s, yet another image of Wollstonecraft emerged, one which described her as much more a creature of her time; scholars such as Claudia Johnson, Gary Kelly, and Virginia Sapiro demonstrated the continuity between Wollstonecraft's thought and other important eighteenth-century ideas regarding topics such as sensibility, economics, and political theory.\n\nWollstonecraft's work has also had an effect on feminism outside the academy in recent years. Ayaan Hirsi Ali, a political writer and former Muslim who is critical of Islam in general and its dictates regarding women in particular, cited the \"Rights of Woman\" in her autobiography \"Infidel\" and wrote that she was \"inspired by Mary Wollstonecraft, the pioneering feminist thinker who told women they had the same ability to reason as men did and deserved the same rights\". British writer Caitlin Moran, author of the best-selling \"How to Be a Woman\", described herself as \"half Wollstonecraft\" to the \"New Yorker\". She has also inspired more widely. Nobel Laureate Amartya Sen, the Indian economist and philosopher who first identified the missing women of Asia, draws repeatedly on Wollstonecraft as a political philosopher in \"The Idea of Justice\".\n\nSeveral plaques have been erected to honor Wollstonecraft.\n\nThe majority of Wollstonecraft's early productions are about education; she assembled an anthology of literary extracts \"for the improvement of young women\" entitled \"The Female Reader\" and she translated two children's works, Maria Geertruida van de Werken de Cambon's \"Young Grandison\" and Christian Gotthilf Salzmann's \"Elements of Morality\". Her own writings also addressed the topic. In both her conduct book \"Thoughts on the Education of Daughters\" (1787) and her children's book \"Original Stories from Real Life\" (1788), Wollstonecraft advocates educating children into the emerging middle-class ethos: self-discipline, honesty, frugality, and social contentment. Both books also emphasize the importance of teaching children to reason, revealing Wollstonecraft's intellectual debt to the important seventeenth-century educational philosopher John Locke. However, the prominence she affords religious faith and innate feeling distinguishes her work from his and links it to the discourse of sensibility popular at the end of the eighteenth century. Both texts also advocate the education of women, a controversial topic at the time and one which she would return to throughout her career, most notably in \"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\". Wollstonecraft argues that well-educated women will be good wives and mothers and ultimately contribute positively to the nation.\n\nPublished in response to Edmund Burke's \"Reflections on the Revolution in France\" (1790), which was a defence of constitutional monarchy, aristocracy, and the Church of England, and an attack on Wollstonecraft's friend, the Rev Richard Price at the Newington Green Unitarian Church, Wollstonecraft's \"A Vindication of the Rights of Men\" (1790) attacks aristocracy and advocates republicanism. Hers was the first response in a pamphlet war that subsequently became known as the \"Revolution Controversy\", in which Thomas Paine's \"Rights of Man\" (1792) became the rallying cry for reformers and radicals.\n\nWollstonecraft attacked not only monarchy and hereditary privilege but also the language that Burke used to defend and elevate it. In a famous passage in the \"Reflections\", Burke had lamented: \"I had thought ten thousand swords must have leaped from their scabbards to avenge even a look that threatened her <nowiki>[</nowiki>Marie Antoinette<nowiki>]</nowiki> with insult.—But the age of chivalry is gone.\" Most of Burke's detractors deplored what they viewed as theatrical pity for the French queen—a pity they felt was at the expense of the people. Wollstonecraft was unique in her attack on Burke's gendered language. By redefining the sublime and the beautiful, terms first established by Burke himself in \"A Philosophical Enquiry into the Origin of Our Ideas of the Sublime and Beautiful\" (1756), she undermined his rhetoric as well as his argument. Burke had associated the beautiful with weakness and femininity and the sublime with strength and masculinity; Wollstonecraft turns these definitions against him, arguing that his theatrical \"tableaux\" turn Burke's readers—the citizens—into weak women who are swayed by show. In her first unabashedly feminist critique, which Wollstonecraft scholar Claudia L. Johnson argues remains unsurpassed in its argumentative force, Wollstonecraft indicts Burke's defence of an unequal society founded on the passivity of women.\n\nIn her arguments for republican virtue, Wollstonecraft invokes an emerging middle-class ethos in opposition to what she views as the vice-ridden aristocratic code of manners. Influenced by Enlightenment thinkers, she believed in progress and derides Burke for relying on tradition and custom. She argues for rationality, pointing out that Burke's system would lead to the continuation of slavery, simply because it had been an ancestral tradition. She describes an idyllic country life in which each family can have a farm that will just suit its needs. Wollstonecraft contrasts her utopian picture of society, drawn with what she says is genuine feeling, to Burke's false feeling.\n\nThe \"Rights of Men\" was Wollstonecraft's first overtly political work, as well as her first feminist work; as Johnson contends, \"it seems that in the act of writing the later portions of \"Rights of Men\" she discovered the subject that would preoccupy her for the rest of her career.\" It was this text that made her a well-known writer.\n\n\"A Vindication of the Rights of Woman\" is one of the earliest works of feminist philosophy. In it, Wollstonecraft argues that women ought to have an education commensurate with their position in society and then proceeds to redefine that position, claiming that women are essential to the nation because they educate its children and because they could be \"companions\" to their husbands rather than mere wives. Instead of viewing women as ornaments to society or property to be traded in marriage, Wollstonecraft maintains that they are human beings deserving of the same fundamental rights as men. Large sections of the \"Rights of Woman\" respond vitriolically to conduct book writers such as James Fordyce and John Gregory and educational philosophers such as Jean-Jacques Rousseau, who wanted to deny women an education. (Rousseau famously argues in \"\" (1762) that women should be educated for the pleasure of men.)\n\nWollstonecraft states that currently many women are silly and superficial (she refers to them, for example, as \"spaniels\" and \"toys\"), but argues that this is not because of an innate deficiency of mind but rather because men have denied them access to education. Wollstonecraft is intent on illustrating the limitations that women's deficient educations have placed on them; she writes: \"Taught from their infancy that beauty is woman's sceptre, the mind shapes itself to the body, and, roaming round its gilt cage, only seeks to adorn its prison.\" She implies that, without the encouragement young women receive from an early age to focus their attention on beauty and outward accomplishments, women could achieve much more.\n\nWhile Wollstonecraft does call for equality between the sexes in particular areas of life, such as morality, she does not explicitly state that men and women are equal. What she does claim is that men and women are equal in the eyes of God. However, such claims of equality stand in contrast to her statements respecting the superiority of masculine strength and valour. Wollstonecraft famously and ambiguously writes: \"Let it not be concluded that I wish to invert the order of things; I have already granted, that, from the constitution of their bodies, men seem to be designed by Providence to attain a greater degree of virtue. I speak collectively of the whole sex; but I see not the shadow of a reason to conclude that their virtues should differ in respect to their nature. In fact, how can they, if virtue has only one eternal standard? I must therefore, if I reason consequently, as strenuously maintain that they have the same simple direction, as that there is a God.\" Her ambiguous statements regarding the equality of the sexes have since made it difficult to classify Wollstonecraft as a modern feminist, particularly since the word and the concept were unavailable to her.\n\nOne of Wollstonecraft's most scathing critiques in the \"Rights of Woman\" is of false and excessive sensibility, particularly in women. She argues that women who succumb to sensibility are \"blown about by every momentary gust of feeling\" and because they are \"the prey of their senses\" they cannot think rationally. In fact, she claims, they do harm not only to themselves but to the entire civilization: these are not women who can help refine a civilization—a popular eighteenth-century idea—but women who will destroy it. Wollstonecraft does not argue that reason and feeling should act independently of each other; rather, she believes that they should inform each other.\n\nIn addition to her larger philosophical arguments, Wollstonecraft also lays out a specific educational plan. In the twelfth chapter of the \"Rights of Woman\", \"On National Education\", she argues that all children should be sent to a \"country day school\" as well as given some education at home \"to inspire a love of home and domestic pleasures.\" She also maintains that schooling should be co-educational, arguing that men and women, whose marriages are \"the cement of society\", should be \"educated after the same model.\"\n\nWollstonecraft addresses her text to the middle-class, which she describes as the \"most natural state\", and in many ways the \"Rights of Woman\" is inflected by a bourgeois view of the world. It encourages modesty and industry in its readers and attacks the uselessness of the aristocracy. But Wollstonecraft is not necessarily a friend to the poor; for example, in her national plan for education, she suggests that, after the age of nine, the poor, except for those who are brilliant, should be separated from the rich and taught in another school.\n\nBoth of Wollstonecraft's novels criticize what she viewed as the patriarchal institution of marriage and its deleterious effects on women. In her first novel, \"Mary: A Fiction\" (1788), the eponymous heroine is forced into a loveless marriage for economic reasons; she fulfils her desire for love and affection outside of marriage with two passionate romantic friendships, one with a woman and one with a man. \"Maria: or, The Wrongs of Woman\" (1798), an unfinished novel published posthumously and often considered Wollstonecraft's most radical feminist work, revolves around the story of a woman imprisoned in an insane asylum by her husband; like Mary, Maria also finds fulfilment outside of marriage, in an affair with a fellow inmate and a friendship with one of her keepers. Neither of Wollstonecraft's novels depict successful marriages, although she posits such relationships in the \"Rights of Woman\". At the end of \"Mary\", the heroine believes she is going \"to that world where there is neither marrying, nor giving in marriage\", presumably a positive state of affairs.\n\nBoth of Wollstonecraft's novels also critique the discourse of sensibility, a moral philosophy and aesthetic that had become popular at the end of the eighteenth century. \"Mary\" is itself a novel of sensibility and Wollstonecraft attempts to use the tropes of that genre to undermine sentimentalism itself, a philosophy she believed was damaging to women because it encouraged them to rely overmuch on their emotions. In \"The Wrongs of Woman\" the heroine's indulgence on romantic fantasies fostered by novels themselves is depicted as particularly detrimental.\n\nFemale friendships are central to both of Wollstonecraft's novels, but it is the friendship between Maria and Jemima, the servant charged with watching over her in the insane asylum, that is the most historically significant. This friendship, based on a sympathetic bond of motherhood, between an upper-class woman and a lower-class woman is one of the first moments in the history of feminist literature that hints at a cross-class argument, that is, that women of different economic positions have the same interests because they are women.\n\nWollstonecraft's \"Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark\" is a deeply personal travel narrative. The twenty-five letters cover a wide range of topics, from sociological reflections on Scandinavia and its peoples to philosophical questions regarding identity to musings on her relationship with Imlay (although he is not referred to by name in the text). Using the rhetoric of the sublime, Wollstonecraft explores the relationship between the self and society. Reflecting the strong influence of Rousseau, \"Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark\" shares the themes of the French philosopher's \"Reveries of a Solitary Walker\" (1782): \"the search for the source of human happiness, the stoic rejection of material goods, the ecstatic embrace of nature, and the essential role of sentiment in understanding\". While Rousseau ultimately rejects society, however, Wollstonecraft celebrates domestic scenes and industrial progress in her text.\nWollstonecraft promotes subjective experience, particularly in relation to nature, exploring the connections between the sublime and sensibility. Many of the letters describe the breathtaking scenery of Scandinavia and Wollstonecraft's desire to create an emotional connection to that natural world. In so doing, she gives greater value to the imagination than she had in previous works. As in her previous writings, she champions the liberation and education of women. In a change from her earlier works, however, she illustrates the detrimental effects of commerce on society, contrasting the imaginative connection to the world with a commercial and mercenary one, an attitude she associates with Imlay.\n\n\"Letters Written in Sweden, Norway, and Denmark\" was Wollstonecraft's most popular book in the 1790s. It sold well and was reviewed positively by most critics. Godwin wrote \"if ever there was a book calculated to make a man in love with its author, this appears to me to be the book.\" It influenced Romantic poets such as William Wordsworth and Samuel Taylor Coleridge, who drew on its themes and its aesthetic.\nThis is a complete list of Mary Wollstonecraft's works; all works are the first edition and were authored by Wollstonecraft unless otherwise noted.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "429869", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=429869", "title": "Max Knoll", "text": "Max Knoll\n\nMax knoll (17 July 1897 – 6 November 1969) was a German electrical engineer. \n\nKnoll was born in Wiesbaden and studied in Munich and at the Technical University of Berlin, where he obtained his doctorate in the Institute for High Voltage Technology. In 1927 he became the leader of the electron research group there, where he and his co-worker, Ernst Ruska, invented the electron microscope in 1931. In April 1932, Knoll joined Telefunken in Berlin to do developmental work in the field of television design. He was also a private lecturer in Berlin. \n\nAfter World War II, Knoll joined the University of Munich as extraordinary professor and director of the Institute for Electromedicine. He moved to the USA in 1948, to work at the Department of Electrical Engineering at Princeton University. \n\nIn 1956 he returned to Munich and engaged in a series of experiments at the Technische Hochschule, involving the generation of phosphenes by electrically stimulating the brains of himself and other subjects. He retired in 1966.\n\n"}
{"id": "11587231", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11587231", "title": "Middle States Commission on Higher Education", "text": "Middle States Commission on Higher Education\n\nThe Middle States Commission on Higher Education (abbreviated as MSCHE and legally incorporated as the Mid-Atlantic Region Commission on Higher Education) is a voluntary, peer-based, non-profit association that performs peer evaluation and accreditation of public and private universities and colleges in selected regions of the United States and foreign institutions of American origin. It is one of the seven regional accreditation organizations dating back 125 years and is recognized by the United States Department of Education and the Council for Higher Education Accreditation.\n\nIts headquarters are in Center City, Philadelphia.\n\nThe Middle States Commission on Higher Education is recognized by the U.S. Secretary of Education to accredit degree-granting institutions in the states of New York, New Jersey, Pennsylvania, Delaware, and Maryland; the District of Columbia, (Washington, D.C.), plus the American territories/commonwealths of Puerto Rico, and the U.S. Virgin Islands (in the Caribbean Sea), that wish to participate in Federal \"Title IV\" student loan programs. The commission also accredits non-American institutions such as Central European University in Budapest and Athabasca University in Alberta, Canada.\n\nMSCHE grew out of the Middle States Association of Colleges and Schools (MSA), an organization established in 1887 to improve education using evaluation and accreditation. MSCHE itself was established in 1919 and was one of three Commissions of MSA until 2013 when MSCHE incorporated as a separate entity in Pennsylvania as the Mid-Atlantic Region Commission on Higher Education doing business as the Middle States Commission on Higher Education.\n\n\n\n<br>\n"}
{"id": "51611410", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51611410", "title": "Ministry of Education, Employment and Gender Affairs", "text": "Ministry of Education, Employment and Gender Affairs\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Employment and Gender Affairs is a ministry of the Cayman Islands. It is headquartered on the fifth floor of the Government Administration Building in George Town, Grand Cayman, Cayman Islands.\n\nThe Cayman Islands Department of Education Services (DES) operates public schools on the island. It is headquartered in a separate building in George Town.\n\n"}
{"id": "21034646", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=21034646", "title": "Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (Cambodia)", "text": "Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (Cambodia)\n\nThe Ministry of Education, Youth and Sport (Khmer: ក្រសួងអប់រំ យុវជន និងកីឡា) (MoEYS) is the government ministry responsible for promoting and regulating education, youth and sport development, in Cambodia. \n\nMission:\nEnsuring that all Cambodian children and youth have equal opportunity to access quality education consistent with the Constitution and the Government’s commitment to the United Nations Convention on the Rights of the Child, regardless of social status, geography, ethnicity, religion, language, gender, or disabilities.\n\nThe Ministry has six directorates:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "30876750", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30876750", "title": "Nanjing University", "text": "Nanjing University\n\nNanjing University (NJU or NU, sometimes Nanking University, ), known as Nanda (), is a major public university, the oldest institution of higher learning in Nanjing, Jiangsu, and a member of the elite C9 League of Chinese universities.\n\nEstablished in 1902 as Sanjiang Normal School, it underwent a number of name changes until it was renamed Nanjing University in 1950. It merged with the University of Nanking in 1952.\n\nIn addition to its membership in the C9 League, Nanjing University has been designated a Class A institution in the Double First Class University plan, a government initiative to cultivate an elite group of Chinese universities into \"world-class\" institutions. The university is perennially ranked one of the best research universities in China, and one of China's most selective universities. It is ranked among the top universities worldwide in major global university rankings. Regarding research output, the Nature Index 2017 ranks Nanjing University number 2 in China, number 3 in Asia Pacific and number 12 in the world.\n\nNanda has two main campuses: the Xianlin campus, northeast of Nanjing, and the Gulou campus, in the central area of Nanjing City.\n\nNanjing, situated in the lower part of the Yangtze, has historically been the capital of various kingdoms and dynasties, with the reputation as the center of education. In 258 CE, the Kingdom of Wu under the reign of Emperor Jing of Wu, founded a Confucian learning institute for the purpose of learning Six Arts. In the first year of Jianwu reign (317), Taihsueh (太學) campus was built in today's Fuzimiao () area on the banks of Qinhuai River, and Nanking Imperial University began recruiting students from common families instead of only from noble families. Like its forerunner Chengjun () and succeeding Shang Hsiang () founded by Yu (, 21st century BCE) in Chungyuan, the earliest recorded imperial higher learning institutions and their successors, it was the Kingdom's central university, which after Han dynasty excellent students from local schools could be selected to attend to pursue further education.\n\nIn 470 during the Former Song dynasty, the Imperial Central University (Zongmingguan) became a comprehensive institution combining higher education and research, with five divisions: Literature, History, Confucian Study, Xuan Study and Yin Yang Study. The campus of School of Literature and School of History were located in today's Nanjing University Gulou campus, west to Gulou () mountain, and the campus was moved to today's Chaotian Palace () area at the time when Wang Jian () was university president and the areas of study were narrowed, with a heavy focus on Confucian classics. In the period the faculty members included such scholars and scientists as Zu Chongzhi (), Ge Hong (), Wang Xizhi (), and students included such figures as Xiao Daocheng, Emperor Gao of Southern Qi who studied at School of Confucian Studies, and Zhong Rong, a founding scholar of poetics who graduated from division of literature. After the fall of Chen dynasty, the school was closed and later replaced by Nanking Academy (or Jiangzhou Academy, Jiangzhou Zhouxue) in Sui dynasty.\n\nIn 937 when campus of the imperial national university was again in Fuzimiao area, Li Shandao, a scholar of the university, established another national school Lushan National Academy outside the capital city Nanking which is called Bailudong Shuyuan (White Deer Grotto Academy), a famous academy that hosted many renowned scholars including Zhu Xi, Lu Jiuyuan and Wang Yangming.\n\nIn 1382 the Imperial University ( Kuotzuchien or Guozijian) moved campus from Nanking Fuzimiao area to south of Qintian Mountain () and Xuanwu Lake (the area around Nanjing University campus before 1952. In 1952 Nanjing University moved to Gulou and its engineering school was split and formed several independent colleges including Nanjing Institute of Technology, which at its peak spanning 10 Li and hosting near 10,000 students, and around there were institutes including Qintian Jian (Imperial Astronomy Institute) and Taiyi Yuan (Imperial Medical Institute). In 1403 Peking Guozijian (Beijing Guozijian, Imperial University of Peking) was established. The Imperial University of Nanking () developed and flourished in the period, consisting of six schools: three basic level colleges (Chengyi, ChongChih, Guangye), two middle level schools (Hsiudao, Chenghsin) and one advanced level school (Shuaihsing), altogether 4 years to complete according to the system, one and a half years for both of the former two levels and one year for the latter level, to achieve 8 credit points a year and then upon graduation Chushen (qualification, diploma) would be awarded, with subjects including Confucian classics, history, literature, mathematics, law, calligraphy, equestrianism and archery, etc. Yongle Encyclopedia was completed at Imperial Nanking University in 1408 after five years compilation, 9169 scholars selected from nationwide took part in it, thereinto 2180 were student scholars of the university. The publishing house of the imperial university of Nanking had been a publishing centre for several hundred years. Wu Cheng'en, Tang Hsiantzu and Zheng Chenggong studied there during the Ming dynasty.\n\nEach time when Nanking became a non-capital city, the Nanking Imperial University was changed to be regional Nanking Academy. The Imperial Nanking University was changed to Nanking Academy (, Jiangning Fuxue) in 1650 after Qing dynasty replaced Ming dynasty, and in 1865 after Taiping Rebellion the academy was relocated to Chaotian Palace. The ancient school history was recognized during ROC. In 1954 the school authority controlled by CPC decided to set the year starting to establish the modern new type school Sanjiang Normal College as the school's new founding year.\n\nIn 1902, Sanjiang Normal College () under the new educational system, using Japanese modern higher institutions of learning as references, was beginning to be established to replace the traditional Chinese school Nanking Academy, and was opened in the next year, with campus constructed south to Qintian Mountain. The name was changed to Liangjiang Normal College () in 1906, and the new president Li Ruiqing () established the first faculty of modern art in China.\n\nIn 1915 after the Republic of China replaced Qing dynasty, the Nanking Higher Normal School () was founded to replace Liangjiang Higher Normal School which was closed three years before due to Xinhai Revolution, Jiang Qian () was appointed as the president. The school established the China's first faculty of modern gymnastics (physical education) in 1916. In 1920 the school consisted of five colleges: Liberal Arts, Agriculture, Engineering, Commerce and Education.\n\nThe \"China Science Society\" (), a major science organization in the modern history of China, founded its headquarter in the school in 1918. Its members established \"Academia Sinica\" () which was later moved to Taiwan and known as the \"Chinese Academy of Sciences\" () in mainland China. Numerous Chinese modern science pioneers, most of whom studied in America and some European countries such as Britain, France, and Germany, converged there to found many fields of science in China. It became the Chinese cradle of modern science. Among 81 academicians of \"Academia Sinica\" elected for the first time in 1948, five entered or graduated from the university in 1920. More than half of the leading Chinese scientists whose works were published in scientific journals in the early period of Chinese modern science were graduates or academics of Nanjing University.\n\nKuo Ping-wen (Guo Bingwen, ), an influential university president, was appointed in 1919 after Jiang Qian. The school meeting passed \"The Audit Law for Women Students\" () on December 7, 1919, as result of efforts of the educationist T'ao Hsing-chih (Tao Xingzhi, ), as well as the president Guo Bingwen, and the professors including Liu Boming (), Luh Chih-wei (Lu Zhiwei, ), Yang Hsingfo (Yang Xingfo, ), etc., and then decided to formally recruit female students. The school became the first higher learning institution in China to recruit coeducational students. It enrolled eight women students in the first year 1920, and in addition, more than 50 female auditing students were admitted.\n\nIn 1921 the National Southeastern University () was founded, and in 1923 Nanking Higher Normal School was merged into it. In the autumn of 1921, the Faculty of Business established in 1917 was moved to Shanghai to establish the first business school conferring degrees in China. The university consisted of five colleges (or schools) at the time: Liberal Arts (including departments of Chinese literature, foreign literature, history, philosophy, psychology，mathematics, physics, chemistry, biology, geoscience, and the Department of Politics, Law and Economics), Education, Agriculture, Engineering, and Commerce (or Business, including departments of general commerce, business administration, accounting, finance, economics, international trade, etc.), and soon later the College of Liberal Arts was divided to be College of Humanities and College of Sciences. The earliest modern scientific research laboratories and groups in China were established at the university. It integrated teaching and research, with status of university's independence and academic freedom, and was regarded as the earliest Chinese modern university. The university along with its affiliated primary school and middle school served as a pioneer and model which laid the foundations for the establishment of modern educational system (, Renhsü Hsüehchih, 1922) in China, and in addition, its experimental kindergarten (Gulou Kindergarten) founded in 1923 was later also adopted as the model for Chinese kindergartens (Kindergarten Courses Standards by Ministration of Education, 1932), including its teaching system, teaching materials, teaching methods and teaching tools. In October 1921, \"Hsuehheng Society\" (or Xueheng Society, ) was founded in the university which was the focus of the \"Hsuehheng School\" included the scholars Liu Yizheng (), Liu Boming (劉伯明), Mei Guangdi (), Wu Mi () and Hu Hsien-Hsu (Hu Xiansu, ). They reinvigorated Confucian culture and humanism and published the monthly \"Critical Review\" (Xueheng, in Chinese) in January 1922. It enabled Nanjing University to become a center of Confucian thought and humanistic scholarship. During this period, Nanjing University was known as the foremost \"Oriental Education Centre\" and recognized as an academic and cultural exchange centre for east and west. Many scholars visited and instructed there, including the American educationist Paul Monroe, W. H. Kilpatrick, E. L. Thorndike, philosopher John Dewey, British philosopher Bertrand Russell, German philosopher Hans Driesch and the Indian (also Bengali) poet Rabindranath Tagore.\n\nThe university became the capital national university after Nanking was made the capital by Nationalist Government, initially renamed National Dyisyi Chungshan University (or called National Nanking Chungshan University) in June 1927 when National Southeastern University merged eight public schools in Jiangsu province, and was renamed Jiangsu University in February 1928, and in May 1928, it was renamed National Central University (). At the time there were eight colleges (or schools): Humanity, Social Science, Natural Science, Engineering, Education, Commerce, Agriculture, and Medicine. The College of Commerce moved to Shanghai in 1921 and College of Medicine established in Shanghai in 1927 were split from the university in 1932. In 1935 College of Medicine was again established, in Nanjing. During the Anti-Japanese War between 1937 and 1945, the university moved to Chongqing, while the College of Medicine and Department of Animal Husbandry & Veterinary Medicine of College of Agriculture moved to Chengdu. The Chinese Association of Natural Science () was originated at the university in 1927 and adopted the name next year, which was the second largest scientific organization in China in 1949, after China Science Society. China Association of Scientific Workers () was founded in the university in 1944. China Science Society and the associations were merged to be the China Association for Science and Technology () in 1958 in Beijing. The Natural Science Forum was initiated by the university faculties in 1939, which was later renamed Jiusan Forum (Sept. 3rd Forum) and became Jiusan Society in 1945, an organization for intellectual groups in China. In the united college entrance examinations beginning in 1937, about two-thirds of students put the university as the first choice. It became the first Chinese university enrolling blind college student, when enrolled Luo Fuxin () in 1942.\n\nIn 1949, during the late time of Chinese Civil War, the central government of the Republic of China retreated from Nanking and the National Central University was renamed National Nanking University (National Nanjing University, ) after Nanking was controlled by CPC army, before the establishment of People's Republic of China. In 1952, many colleges and departments, mainly colleges of education (or teacher, normal, including art and physical education departments), engineering, agriculture, and medicine, were split from Nanjing University, and many new independent schools were formed, including Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing Institute of Technology which was located at former Nanjing University site and later renamed Southeast University, etc. At the same time, University of Nanking (), a private university established in 1888 and sponsored by American churches, was merged into Nanjing University (), which lost its \"national\" appellation in 1950 to reflect the reality that all universities in the PRC would be public, and Nanjing University moved campus to the site of University of Nanking where was west to Gulou Mountain and was also once the site of imperial Nanjing University in ancient times. A separate National Central University was reinstated in Taiwan by its old alumni association in 1962.\nDuring the period of communist society including the period of Proletarian Cultural Revolution, the school suffered heavily. In 1976, Nanjing University faculty members and students launched Anti Cultural Revolution Force Movement which was called \"Nanjing Incident\" by the authorities of the time, spreading countrywide. In 1978, Hu Fuming, a faculty member of Nanjing University in philosophy, wrote the historic article entitled \"Practice is the Sole Criterion for Testing Truth\", and after being published it led to the nationwide \"Debate on Standards for Judging the Truth\", and thus in certain degree liberated thought and promoted the ending of Cultural Revolution and the coming of reform era.\n\nMany faculties have been reestablished or newly founded since the Reform after 1978, e.g., law reestablished in 1981, medical school in 1987, environmental department newly founded in 1984. Some departments were divided into two or more departments, e.g., the Chinese language and literature department divided into departments of language & linguistics, literature, philology and drama arts, or some new faculties came out of older faculties, e.g., computer came out of mathematics, urban planning came out of geography, in many case formed integratively, i.e., formed based on parts of two or more faculties, e.g., parts of faculties of physics and chemistry integratively formed material faculty. In around 1990 the university consisted of schools (colleges) of Humanities, Sciences, Technological Sciences, Medicine, Business, etc.. Then many departments became schools, e.g., mathematics, physics, chemistry, or grouped into new schools, e.g., architecture and urban planning. The size of university significantly expanded during the years.\n\nIn 2009, Xianlin Campus was opened, replacing Pukou Campus which was put into use in 1993, and Pukou Campus became the campus of Jinling College which was founded by Nanda. The Xianlin campus is a main campus along with Gulou campus.\n\nMore than 1500 years ago, ancient University of Nanjing founded the earliest faculties of literature, history, etc.. In modern times, Nanjing University established Chinese first faculties of art, gymnastics, biology, psychology, business management, etc.. Its faculties, departments and schools have been changed and evolved timely. For example, in 1921, the university consisted of 5 schools: liberal arts, education, agriculture, engineering and business, in 1928 the school of liberal arts had become three schools, and the university consisted of 8 schools: humanities, social sciences, natural sciences, education, agriculture, engineering, business and medicine, and now, many former departments of humanities, natural sciences and social sciences have become schools.\n\nThe system of academic degree or diploma has also been changed. In the early years of ROC the university adopted the system similar to western especially American universities and began to award bachelor's degree. The university founded China's first modern laboratories in physics, chemistry, etc.. In 1922, the university professors founded The Biology Research Institute of Science Society of China, the first modern scientific research institute in China, integrated with the university's biology department. With the aid of Rockefeller Foundation, Science Centre was constructed in 1924 and completed three years later. In 1926 the university passed The General Regulation of Graduate Institute. China's first doctor's degree was awarded by the school of medicine of the university in 1931. Soon the educational system was changed. In the early 1980s after a period of transformation, universities in mainland China resumed to award doctor's degrees, and graduate and undergraduate education were integrated into departments and schools. Nanjing University is the first in mainland China to award doctor's degrees in such fields as Chinese studies, world history, computer science.\n\nIt is distinguished in many fields including Chinese Language and Literature, and natural sciences.\nIts faculty, including part-time faculty, includes more than twenty Nobel Laureates engaged in teaching.\nThe university is a Double First Class University Plan university in 15 academic disciplines.\n\nCurrent schools and departments\n\nNanjing University has three main campuses: Gulou, Xianlin and Pukou campus. The distance between Gulou and Xianlin campus is about 18 kilometers.\n\nGulou Campus is located in Gulou District, at the center of Nanjing City. The main campus itself is divided into two sections by Hankou Road: North Garden, Bei Yuan, is where teaching and research take place; and South Garden, Nan Yuan, serves as the living area for both students and academic staff.\n\nPukou Campus is situated in the suburban Pukou District, by the northern side of Nanjing New & High-Tech Industry Development Zone, and became part of Nanjing University in 1993. Once Pukou campus hosted undergraduate freshmen, sophomore and junior students. In 2009, the Pukou campus became the campus hosted the undergraduate students in Nanjing University Jinling College, which was founded by Nanjing University in 1998. Nanjing University Biomedical Research Institute is also located in Pukou.\n\nXianlin Campus is located in the northeast of Nanjing, in the Xianlin Universities Town, south of Yangtse River and Qixia Mountain, east of Purple Mountain, and west of Baohua Mountain. The campus is home to undergraduate students and parts of graduate students. It was opened in September 2009. There is the stop of Nanjing University Xianlin Campus on Line 2 of Nanjing Subway, which enables Xianlin and Gulou campus to be connected through subway.\n\nIn Gulou campus, there are several museums including Nanjing University Museum, Museum of Art and Archaeology, Museum of Earth Science. There is Sun Yat-sen House. It's said that Sun Yat-sen, the first president (provisional president) of the Republic of China, lived there. There are also Pearl Buck House, John Rabe House, etc.. Gulou campus is now becoming mainly for professional graduate campus.\n\nThe location of Nanjing University has changed for several times, with historical campuses mainly in Fuzimiao (on the bank of Qinhuai River), Gulou, Chaotiangong and Sipailou (south of Qintian Mountain) areas. In addition, during Anti-Japanese War, its main campus moved to Shapingba, Chungking, with two auxiliary campuses, one in Bohsi, Chungking, and one in Hwahsiba, Chengdu, in some sense combined with Chongqing University and Western China University (now medical school of Sichuan University) respectively. It also deserves to mention that before the war, with the rapid development of the university, a new campus planned to cover an area of 8000 mu (about ) south to Niushou Mountain in the southern suburb area of Nanjing had been built for near a year. After the war, it moved back to Nanjing, making former campus Sipailou as main campus, and the new campus Dingjiaqiao was built for agriculture and medical schools. Nanjing University relocated in Gulou six years after moving back, and then near sixty years later Xianlin campus emerged. Today's Nanjing University Gulou campus is the location of Imperial University of Nanjing during Former Song dynasty in more than 1500 years ago when it was in the west of the city, and now it's in the centre of the city.\n\nOfficially translated into English as \"Sincerity with Aspiration, Perseverance and Integrity\". Another version is \"Be Honest and Intelligent, Study Hard and Act Sincerely.\"()\n\nThe first half of this motto was the motto during the National Central University time, and the last half was quoted from the classic literature work \"Book of Rites\". It was voted to be the motto by university students in 2002, and the then university president supported it and wrote an article to interpret it.\n\nThe translation does not fully express the meaning of the Chinese words of the motto. Motto counterparts between Chinese and English literally: Cheng (诚, Sincerity, Honesty, Integrity), Pu (樸, Simplicity, Austerity, naturally being oneself), Xiong (雄, Sturdiness, Majesty, being vigorous and keeping ideal and ambition, being firm and persistent with fortitude), Wei (偉, Greatness, having great ideal and ambition, with great mind comprehending, containing and improving world), Li Xue (勵學, Endeavor to Learn), Dun Xing (敦行, Urge to Act, Act Sincerely). The term Dun Xing comes from the context in Book of Rites: Having broad knowledge and strong learning ability and being modest, acting in sincerity and benignity and not slack, that is a gentleman (gentleperson) (博聞強識而讓 敦善行而不怠 謂之君子).\n\nThe school song, recovered in 2002, was created in 1916. It is the first school song in the modern history of Nanjing University, with the lyrics written by Jiang Qian and melody composed by Li Shutong ().\n\nThe present school anniversary is on May 20 every year, which was set by the school authority in 1954 in some sense due to some ideological reasons of the time, with the starting year being 1902 when relaunching the school as a modern higher learning institution, and the day May 20 in memory of the movement of anti-hunger and anti-war initiated by the university in that day of 1947. In recent years, the date May 20 has another new meaning: in Chinese Nanjing pronunciation, 5.20, sounds like I Love You (Wu Ai Ni). It shows students' love to their Alma Mater.\n\nThe School of Modern Engineering and Applied Sciences was established in 2009, replacing former School of Technological Sciences. NU received a RMB 400 million endowment gift from enterpriser Yang Xiu on the anniversary day in 2012, 300 million was designated for the establishment of engineering school and the rest for history study development fund. The Engineering Building covering floor space of 6000 sqm was started to construct in Xianlin campus in 2014.\n\nAccording to Nature Index released in January 2018, the ranking of high-quality natural sciences research by Nature Publishing Group, Nanjing University is ranked No.3 in China, No.4 in Asia Pacific, No.14 in the world among all institutions (including CAS in China, CNRS in France and other national organizations), and ranked No.2 in China, No.3 in Asia Pacific, and No.10 in the world among universities.\n\nNanjing University was ranked 91-100 for World Reputation Ranking in 2017 by Times Higher Education World University Rankings, and 114 by 2015 QS World University Rankings. \n\nIt's ranked 7th in China by ShanghaiRanking in 2018.\n\nReviewing rankings, domestically, according to university rankings in China, Nanjing University was generally ranked among the top 3 universities before the university merger tide occurred in the several years about after 2000, and then ranking down, even falling to No.7. Chinese university ranking by Chinese Academy of Management Science since 1995 ranked Nanjing University between 1st and 3rd before 2000 and since then between 3rd and 6th. Chinese university ranking since 1999 by the higher education publisher Netbig consistently ranked the university among the top 3 before 2005, and in the most recent ranking among the top 5. Academic Ranking of World Universities since 2003 by Shanghai Jiaotong University (ShanghaiRanking) suggested a domestic rank of number 2 to number 7. The first-time integrative ranking of universities in China, in 1989, ranked Nanda as the No.1 comprehensive university.\n\nKnown for its stringent admission criteria, Nanjing University was reported by national media to be the No. 1 most selective university (\"the university that is the hardest to get in\") in mainland China.\n\nIn 2012, 667 new students from abroad attended Nanda, among them about 20% from USA, 22% from Britain, France, Germany and Italy and the rest from other countries. In 2013 Nanda recruited 761 overseas students from 61 countries. In 2014, there were about 3600 overseas students, about 40% from Asia, 40% from Europe and North America, and 20% from other regions.\n\nNanjing University has a long history in the field of Chinese language and literature. The School of Literature founded by Hsieh Yuan in the 15th year of Yuanjia reign (CE 438) was the oldest literature school in ancient China. In modern times, it was the first in mainland China to have granted a doctoral degree in Chinese Language and Literature. In addition, Nanjing Universiyy is in close cooperation with the United Nations to offer a Chinese language programme. Widely recognized as one of the most eminently prestigious Schools of Chinese in the world, it was ranked with Peking University as Joint No. 1 in Chinese Language and Literature. Peking University and Nanjing University are widely recognized in the academic community as the two top universities in the field of Chinese Language and Literature in the world, with both consistently taking the two top places in rankings on the subject. [Nanjing University] had produced modern China's first PhD in Chinese Language and Literature, Dr. Mo Lifeng (莫砺锋), who is still serving as its Professor of Chinese.\n\nNanjing University established the first department of Western literature among Chinese universities, in 1921. Two years later the department was merged with English department and other faculties including French and German and renamed department of foreign languages and literature, later known as school of foreign studies. China Association for the Study of American Literature (CASAL) is located in the school.\n\nThe University collaborates with Singapore University of Social Sciences (SUSS) to provide SUSS's PhD in Chinese Language and Literature.\n\nNanjing University Herbarium (N) was founded in the 4th year of ROC, although there were herbarium specimens in the school before. It's the first modern herbarium in China. It is located in the Tianjiabing Building.\n\n\nSome notable alumni:\n\n\n\n\nNanjing University in literature, media and various related works\n\n\n"}
{"id": "427545", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=427545", "title": "National Geographic Bee", "text": "National Geographic Bee\n\nThe National Geographic GeoBee (called the National Geography Bee from 1989-2000 and the National Geographic Bee from 2001-2018, also referred to as the Nat Geo Bee) is an annual geography contest sponsored by the National Geographic Society. The bee, held every year since 1989, is open to students in the fourth through eighth grades in participating schools from the United States.\n\nThe entities represented at the national level come from all fifty States, all the U.S. territories, the U.S. Department of Defense Dependents Schools (DoDDS), and the District of Columbia.\n\nThe National Geographic Bee Finals was moderated by \"Jeopardy!\" host Alex Trebek for its first 25 years (1989-2013). However, at the 2013 National Geographic Bee, Trebek announced that 2013 would be his last year hosting the Finals. Newscaster Soledad O'Brien took his place the following year, moderating the bee in 2014 and 2015. O'Brien was then replaced by Mo Rocca in 2016, 2017, and 2018.\n\nThe current champion is Venkat Ranjan, from Windemere Ranch Middle School in San Ramon, California.\n\nThe competition begins at the elementary school and middle school levels (4th grade - 8th grade) and usually occurs in November, December, or January. This competition requires at least 6 people to enter. Private, public, and homeschooled students are allowed to enter. Typically, between five and six million students are entered each year (any number of competitors may enter this competition). The two major stages in this competition are called the preliminary and the final stages. Often, the preliminary competition is further split into preliminary rounds and a semi-final. In the event of a tie, a tiebreaker round is held at the end of the preliminary rounds.\n\nIn the preliminary rounds, competitors are divided into groups of twenty and each contestant is asked one question from each of the eight themed rounds. Categories include:\nContestants are awarded 1 point per question. At the end of seven rounds, players with the top ten scores advance to the finals. In addition to the game, a player may ask for a repeat of a spelling during these rounds. However, they are restricted to only asking twice in duration of the entire geographic bee.\n\nQuite often there is a tie, in which case a semi-final tiebreaker round is needed. For example, if six players finished the preliminary rounds with eight points and fifteen finished with seven points, the six who finished with eight points automatically advance to the final competition. The fifteen with seven points move into the semi-final round where the top four are determined to fill the remainder of the seats in the finals. This is done by asking every player the same question at the same time and giving each player twelve seconds to write down the answer. Each question is automatically repeated twice. Everyone reveals their answer at the end of the twelve seconds and players are eliminated on a single-elimination basis. If, using the above example of four open seats in the finals, there is a question where eight players are left in the semi-final round and three players get the question right, those three advance to the finals. The other five who got the question wrong will continue with the single-elimination procedure to determine which competitor will take the last open seat in the finals. A player cannot ask judges to spell or repeat words in the semi-final round.\n\nThe final competition consists of two parts: the final round and the championship round. Each of the ten finalists starts with a clean slate and is eliminated after two incorrect answers. This continues until the number of contestants drops from ten to two and a third-place finisher is determined. A player is not officially eliminated until the end of a series of questions, since if all but one competitor makes their second miss in that round, all the players stay in the competition. Again, a player may ask for a spelling or repeat on any question, but only once per question. Earlier in the round, questions may require oral answers or written answers from all the competitors at one time. Quite often, many of the earlier questions in this round contain visuals as part of the question, such as maps or pictures. Question examples in the past have included pictures of state quarters with the name rubbed off and maps of the US with national forests shown and numbered. Contestants, at the time, were given the name of the national forest and (he or she) must match states with trees. At the national level, competitions may include items such as flags, musical instruments, hats, and even live animals. After a certain round, all questions must require oral answers only.\n\nIf there is a tie for the championship round or third place, there will be an elimination round. For example, if four players are left and three make their second mistake, the fourth advances to the championship round and the other three enter the tiebreaker. The moderator will then ask each of the three players, at the same time, to write their answers to the same question. In this special round, questions can be repeated by players but they cannot ask how to spell a given word. As a result, if one of three responses are correct, he or she will rise to the championship round and the other two will move to the tiebreaker round until a third-place winner determined.\n\nIn the championship round, both players start with a clean slate again. The moderator asks both contestants the same question at the same time, repeated twice, and both players have fifteen seconds to write their answer. Both players then show their answers and each player who wrote a correct answer receives one point. There are three questions in the championship round. The player with the most points at the end is the champion. If both players are tied at the end, the competition enters the championship tiebreaker round. The rules are the same as for the championship round, except that the last player to answer a question incorrectly is the runner-up.\n\nIn 2010, National Geographic partnered with mobile development company Concentric Sky to launch a series of official app-based study tools titled Geobee Challenge.\n\nQualifying Test \n\nThe Qualifying Test is the only part of the bee that is entirely written. Every school champion takes this test to see if he or she can qualify for the state bee. The test comprises 70 multiple choice questions, which must be completed in 60 minutes. The top 100 scorers in each state or territory advance to the state level competition. Beginning with the 2016 Bee, the Qualifying test is online, and no longer is administered on paper.\n\nThe winner of each school-level competition takes an online test, and the top 100 in each state or territory qualify for the State Bee. If there is a tie in the State Qualifying Test, all students in the tie get an invitation to the State Bee (i.e. there were 105 State Bee Qualifiers in the 2018 California State Geographic Bee). The rules at the state level are same as that at the school level, except that there are eight preliminary rounds instead of seven and each player is limited to two repeats or spelling for all eight preliminary rounds. Players are also limited to two repeats or spellings in the final round if they qualify. All the state bees are held on the same date, at the same time (in early April or late March) at all locations. The most recent Bee was held on 6 April 2018. State bees originally occurred for the fifty states, five U.S. territories (Guam, Puerto Rico, US Virgin Islands, American Samoa, Northern Mariana Islands), Washington, D.C., and the Department of Defense Dependent Schools (DoDDS), for a total of 57. The third-place finisher from each state receives $50, the second-place finisher $75, and the winner $100. ( The 2018 state Bee doubled that price.) In 1999 the state competitions for Guam, American Samoa, and Northern Mariana Islands were merged into one state competition known as the Pacific Territories, bringing the number down to 55. In 2009, the Puerto Rico and US Virgin Islands competitions were merged into a single competition known as the Atlantic Territories, and since then there have only been 54 state competitions. The 54 state champions receive an all-expense paid trip to Washington, D.C. for the national competition.\n\nThe rules at the national level are the same as those at the state, except that there are ten preliminary rounds instead of eight. There was also a video part of the prelims where students submitted a video worth 6 points, but was replaced by a written test. The championship round can also consist of five questions instead of three. The competition is held over four days, with the preliminary rounds on the first day and the final rounds on the third. The national finals are held in late May at National Geographic Society headquarters in Washington, D.C. and are hosted by Mo Rocca. The ten finalists are guaranteed $500. The third-place finisher receives a $10,000 college scholarship, the second-place finisher receives a $25,000 college scholarship, and the National Champion receives a $50,000 college scholarship, as well as a lifetime membership in the National Geographic Society. From 2009 to 2015, the National Champion also won a trip to the Galápagos Islands. In 2016, National Champion Rishi Nair won a trip to southeast Alaska, including a stop at Glacier Bay National Park. This was because 2016 was the centenary of the U.S. National Park Service. 2017 National Champion, Pranay Varada, received a trip to the Galápagos Islands. The Top Ten format is also different from state. Originally, it was the same format, but in 2012, they changed it where correct answers are worth points, and a bonus question can earn you extra points as well, with eliminations being every few rounds. In 2015, they adopted the current format. There are no longer bonus questions, and the first five rounds are USA based and worth one point for most questions. The fifth round is a “lightning round” where you are asked three rapid fire questions. Then, four students with the lowest scores are eliminated, a tie being broken with a tiebreaker about estimation. The next four rounds are global and are all worth two points per question, and end again with another lightning round. After this, the top three are left. There are two “GeoChallenges” in the final competition, one worth three points in round 3, and for the top ten a 45-second oral response worth six points. The top two then compete in a normal championship round.\n\nThere was an international competition, which was also moderated by Alex Trebek, but it was run differently. The top finishers from each country's national competition formed a team representing their country and participated in an Olympic-style event which included a team written competition and a team oral competition. The 2013 competition was held in Saint Petersburg, Russia. The 2015 National Geographic World Championship, originally planned to take place in Stockholm, Sweden, was canceled, and the competition was since put on hiatus.\n\nThe selection process of the National Geographic GeoBee competition is not well designed to reliably promote the most qualified contestants as it leaves significant room for chance. This is due to the small number of questions and the fact that each contestant answers different questions. Particularly, during the preliminary rounds contestants are eliminated with a single mistake if there are more than 9 perfect scores.\nThe fact that a single mistake is not a reliable indicator for a contestant's overall strength was demonstrated during the 2014 National competition. The preliminary rounds resulted in 9 contestants with perfect score who accordingly became finalists. The 10th spot was filled by tie breaker rounds between contestants who made a single mistake during the preliminaries and went to the Virginia champion Akhil Rekulapelli, who then went on to win the finals.\n\nOf the twenty-nine National Geographic GeoBee champions, twenty-seven are male and two are female. Five are from the state of Washington, four are from the state of Michigan, four are from Texas, two are from Kansas, two are from New Jersey, two are from Florida, and various other states have been home to one champion each.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38250395", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38250395", "title": "Ngapartji Ngapartji", "text": "Ngapartji Ngapartji\n\nNgapartji Ngapartji was a community development and Indigenous language maintenance/revitalisation project produced by the Australian arts and social change company Big \"h\"ART conducted in various locations across the Anangu, Pitjantjatjara and Yankunytjatjara (APY) Lands in Central Australia and in Alice Springs. The project ran from 2005 to 2010 with spin-off projects and related performances. The project was structured around an experimental and reflexive arts-based community development program which included the creation of an online interactive language and culture learning website by Pitjantjatjara-speaking young people, elders and linguists; a bilingual touring theatre work and a media campaign promoting the development of an Australian national Indigenous language policy.\n\n\"Ngapartji Ngapartji\"’s main objective was to effect a sustained positive change in various disadvantaged, struggling Indigenous communities by offering local individuals opportunities to engage with their cultural capital in arts-based practice. Through the creation of art in various forms, Big \"h\"ART sought to maintain and revitalise the Pitjantjatjara language and thus to preserve cultural knowledge, to improve general literacy levels (defined as both the ability to read and write as well as the ability to engage in a culturally meaningful manner with new media and modern technology) and to promote social cohesion as a crime prevention measure. It was part of the project’s aim to “positively [profile] the strength of culture at a time where health and social issues [were] dominating […] media [accounts of the region and its people].”.\n\nOn a global scale, the project aimed to raise awareness, interest and appreciation of Indigenous languages in general and to provide a model for revitalisation of endangered languages.\n\nBetween 1955 and 1963 the British military was given permission to conduct a number of nuclear tests around Maralinga in the South Australian desert. After initially downplaying the environmental and social impacts of those tests, the Australian and UK governments conceded in 1994 to a payment of AUD$13.5 million in compensation to the local Maralinga Tjarutja people.\n\nThe research for a planned theatre show on actor Trevor Jamieson’s family brought him and Big \"h\"ART’s creative director Scott Rankin and producer Alex Kelly to the APY Lands where many of the displaced Maralinga Tjarutja people found shelter. Consultations with community elders and the Jamieson’s extended family about the regions’ history and contemporary challenges brought forth first ideas about the project's focus and structure. In 2002, the play \"Career Highlights of the Mamu\" represented the first stage in the theatrical exploration of the family’s story.\n\nIn 2005, Kelly moved to Alice Springs and started to establish further contacts with community members, organisations and institutions across the APY Lands. The objective of this early stage was to meet locals, to listen to their stories and their first-hand accounts of issues facing their communities and to learn about local ideas on how to tackle those problems. At the heart of the issues people repeatedly identified in the consultations lay two causes: alienation between the generations and an imminent loss of the Pitjantjatjara language and culture.\n\nA challenge for Big \"h\"ART workers and community members involved was to find a suitable framework that would capture the imagination of both old and young and would bring them together in a meaningful exchange. The development of a second mainstage theatre production taking place in interaction with the Ernabella (SA) community provided one possible field of interaction. To allow for a more targeted approach in language maintenance, the development of an integrated online language course based on short film-clips proved to be another: The technological aspect and fun of creating film and digital media appealed to a large number of young people whilst elders were able to pass on language and cultural knowledge in a setting which fostered respect for their wealth of experience. In a series of workshops, artists associated with Big \"h\"ART developed short film clips on country with a group of youngsters from town camps and remote communities, while elders were providing and advising on the content of the language lessons.\n\nOver the course of the project, this kind of working environment fostered mutual learning that allowed participants to experience themselves and others as creative and productive co-workers as well as helping to reduce the alienation between the generations. Beth Sometimes notes that “[by] developing activities that [were] driven by an engagement with Indigenous language such as music recording, filmmaking and travelling to cities to deliver [the] bilingual theatre show, the domains in which the language is used [were] increased. Both younger and older Pitjantjatjara participants engage[d] with broader dialogue concerning language, and in discussion around emerging conceptual realms regarding the experiences that [were] being shared.\".\n\nMany of the films were, in addition to being uploaded onto the ninti-website, published on DVD compilations and distributed by the young people across their communities. A range of workshops was also offered in other disciplines such as dance, photography, digital storytelling and music. Activities included song writing, performing, voice training, recording and sampling. As well as bringing artists to remote communities to conduct those workshops, Big \"h\"ART also partnered with the record label ‘Tracks of the Desert’ to record and publish project material, i.e. the “Ngurakutu Ara” CD in Ernabella (SA) with proceeds going towards purchasing musical equipment for the community. All songs and other materials recorded in the project have been made available to the communities by way of portable storage media and by uploading material onto publicly accessible computers.\n\nEspecial care was taken to afford the young people as much exposure for their artworks as possible to enhance the experience of appreciation and to incite communication and reflection. Participants presented the project and their works at conferences and festivals while a strong media strategy ensured regular coverage on local and national level.\n\nTo afford opportunities for the expansion of professional skills, creative developments of the associated theatre show were organised in Ernabella (SA) to give people the chance to observe working processes, to grow and to participate in various capacities on and off-stage, i.e. by joining the multiple tours of the production to national festivals as paid performers or assisting technicians.\n\nIn order to maximise the impact of language revitalisation, Big \"h\"ART collaborated with the ‘Centre for Aboriginal Economic Policy and Research’ of the Australian National University (ANU) whose researchers advised on the literacy elements of the project while conducting a three-year study, as part of the ‘Lifespan Learning and Literacy in Remote Indigenous Communities 2007-10’ ANU and Fred Hollows Foundation linkeage project. Improvement of literacy in both Pitjantjatjara and English was a strong element of the project: As many participants had had negative experiences with formal education settings and shame being a strong inhibitor to participation in Indigenous communities, literacy was playfully integrated into the general workshop activities and ‘trained on the job’. This tied in with the asset-based approach Big \"h\"ART adopted for the project in that the task-focus was laid on the story while literacy skills were imparted by way of accessing this story and supporting the individuals in translating it into art.\n\nTogether with the ANU researchers and other experts in the field, Big \"h\"ART commenced to push for a change in national policy regarding the maintenance of Indigenous languages in Australia as part of the project’s legacy which eventually prompted the release of the Commonwealth Government’s strategy paper \"Indigenous Languages – A National Approach\" in August 2009 and the tabling of the House of Representatives Standing Committee Report into Indigenous Language Learning.\n\nThe two pillars of the project, the Pitjantjatjara language course and the performance piece, kept informing each other throughout the project.\n\nThe theatre show \"Ngapartji Ngapartji\" premiered at the 2005 Melbourne International Arts Festival as a work in progress.\n\nThe play has lead actor Trevor Jamieson recounting his family’s story, situating it in the larger context of the British nuclear testing around Maralinga. The show explores themes of dispossession and displacement from country, home and family, yet within this political constellation, the focus remains firmly on the detrimental impacts the events had on the social fabric and cultural life of the Indigenous people of the region.\n\nAs Ben Hermann notes, the play “mixes traditional storytelling, tragedy, humour, pop-culture references and direct audience participation to both entertain and educate audiences about the history of Indigenous Australians”. The feature of direct participation awards audiences opportunities to learn Pitjantjatjara words and phrases, thus tying-in the show with the language focus of the larger project. As a whole, Sometimes argues, “\"Ngapartji Ngapartji\" […] exposed the general public to Indigenous language in an emotive context – theatre – providing a platform for meaningful engagement and giving liberty to understanding.\".\n\nThe play starts out in its bilingual form with an introduction given by Trevor Jamieson in which he establishes his troubled brother Jangala as the touchstone of his narrative. The following show sets out to contextualise his story within the larger family story which in turn is framed by the political history of their home-country, the Spinifex nation of the South Australian desert which encompasses the British nuclear testing site of Maralinga.\n\nBefore jumping into the narrative which spans 60 years of dislocation and emotional trauma, the cast (an Indigenous choir, members of the Jamieson family and a group of non-Indigenous, Australian actors from mixed ethnic backgrounds) teaches the children’s song ‘Head, Shoulder, Knees and Toes’ in Pitjantjatjara to the audience. The song resurfaces throughout the performance in different languages and contexts to signal and remind of a common humanity all people on earth share. To strengthen this theme and to open up an emotive space of understanding, the show also makes use of a wide array of popular songs translated into Pitjantjatjara and performed bilingually.\n\nThe family story then quickly proceeds from the family-focalised first encounters with Afghan Australian people in the desert to the beginnings of Christian missionary endeavours.\n\nIntersecting the family story is a larger global narrative of the Second World War and its annihilating race for nuclear power which will invariably come to affect the Jamieson’s as their home-country is turned into a nuclear testing ground. The links established by this narrative eventually all tie in with the family story and serve to turn the abstract, political frame into an intimately personal one in which accountability and impact can no longer be deferred onto the distant and other.\n\nThe story resumes with father Arnold Jamieson being born on country just before the family is moved to Cundalee mission ca. 440 km west of their home country. The strain of dislocation and attempts to save as many family members as possible while evacuation measures of the government fall short of communicating over the cultural divide, eventually break up the grandparents’ marriage, ending in the murder of the grandmother by the grandfather. The story then follows Arnold on his journey into adulthood, longing for his country while restricted to far-away missions. The love and belonging he finds with his wife Gail opens up the hope for a new beginning beyond trauma and sorrow. Overcoming, however, is barred by the murder of Gail’s mother on her way to the wedding by a taxi-driver and the vision of more and more Pitjantjatjara people losing their way in between the two cultures. As cultural protocols are explained, the audience is invited to consider the adopted solutions for reconciliation in Australia from an Indigenous perspective.\nThe last third of the show is increasingly interspersed with video footage of intimate family conversations revolving around the worry for Jangala’s life in this culturally divided space, bringing the focus back onto the brother and present issues facing the displaced Spinifex people in their country. The play ends on a note that affirms Indigenous persistence and survival, expressing hope to be one day released from the cycle of trauma and sorrow.\n\n\"Ngapartji Ngapartji\" has toured Australia extensively in between 2005 and 2008 with the show undergoing various developments throughout its production history. In 2012, the show was revived in Canberra in a condensed version under the name \"Ngapartji One\".\n\nPresentations of the show included among others:\n\n\nCreative Producer: Alex Kelly\n\nKey Performer/Co-creator: Trevor Jamieson\n\nWriter/Director: Scott Rankin\n\nPerformers/singers/teachers/musicians: Jarmen Jamieson, Lex Marinos, Yumi Umiumare, Tomoko Yamasaki, Saira Luther, Andrew MacGregor, Damian Mason, Pantjiti McKenzie, Lorna Wilson, Jennifer Mitchell, Janet Inyika, Julie Miller, Maureen Watson, Elton Wirri, Kunmanara (Iris) Ajax, Amanyi (Dora) Haggie, Mervin Adamson, Belinda Abbott, Imuna Kenta, Rhoda Tjitayi, Melissa Thompson, Delaine Singer, Deanne Gillen, Alana Kelly, Sandy Brokus Abbott, Linda Stanley, Unurupa (Nami) Kulyuru, Sadie Richards, Makinti Minutjukur, Renita Stanley, Alison (Milyika) Carroll, Najeeba Azimi, Nathaniel Garrawurra, Conway Ginger, Melissa Abbott, Joanne Andrews, Keischa Haines, Kalem Haines, Nick Hemple, Dilly,\n\nMusical Composer: Damian Mason\n\nSet and Costume Design: Genevieve Dugard\n\nLighting Design and Production Support: Neil Simpson\n\nAV Design: Suzy Bates, Olaf Meyer\n\nLanguage Reference Group: Pantjiti McKenzie, Jennifer Mitchell, Simon McKenzie, Paul Eckert, Gordon Inkatji, Yanyi Baker\n\nTranslators: Lorna Wilson, Thomas Holder, Yumi Umiumare, Najeeba Azimi, Lex Marinos\n\nWhile creative content created for the project received coverage in local and national media and festivals, the overall project and associated theatre show received the following awards and nominations:\n\n\nThe \"Ngapartji Ngapartji\" project officially wrapped in 2010. However, in order to create a tangible legacy of the project, Big \"h\"ART produced a range of media illustrating the project’s journey:\n\nThe media kit ‘Memory Basket’ “captures the story of the project through photos, music, text and film” and was distributed across Australian libraries.\n\nThe film \"Nothing Rhymes with Ngapartji\" documents the staging of the theatre show in a creek bed in the remote Indigenous community of Ernabella (SA) in 2008, the negotiation of cultural protocols following the death of Arnold Jamieson and the personal repercussions for the creative team.\n\nAs mentioned above, the joint advocacy for a new national policy to revitalise and maintain Indigenous languages across Australia eventually prompted the release of the Commonwealth Government’s strategy paper \"Indigenous Languages – A National Approach\" in August 2009 and the tabling of the House of Representatives Standing Committee Report into Indigenous Language Learning.\n\nAnother legacy of the project is the spin-off performance work \"Nyuntu Ngali\", which was workshopped in Ernabella (SA) in early 2009 before completing seasons at the Adelaide Festival Theatre (Nov 2009), the Australian Performing Arts Market (Feb 2010) and the Sydney Theatre Company (May 2010).\n\nThe creative team of \"Ngapartji Ngapartji\" was invited to Japan in early 2012 to attend the commemorations of the Fukushima disaster and to celebrate the publication of a Japanese translation of the script.\n\nBig \"h\"ART’s \"Namatjira\" project was also incepted during \"Ngapartji Ngapartji\"’s lifetime as Elton Wirri (artist and project participant) provided the link to the Hermannsburg community and helped promote Big \"h\"ART as a company of credence among elders.\n\nA most important legacy of the project according to academic Dave Palmer was that people connected with their culture in a new way, building strong identities and asserting themselves flexibly and successfully in a multicultural context. The Pitjantjatjara concept of ‘ngapartji ngapartji’ itself provided the overarching framework for such a new form of intercultural engagement: glossed as ‘I give you something. You give me something’ it denotes a reciprocal exchange of gifts that create a social framework of mutual obligations. In contrast to Western ideas of trade, here the defining element of exchange is not the material value of the objects and services traded but the fact that trading itself establishes bonds that link people to each other – not only in a material way, but also socially, emotionally and spiritually. Consequently, it is deferral of immediate gratification that keeps people engaged and not a quid pro quo situation that is sought.\n\nDavis, Matt (2009): “Stories with the Heart”. In: Outback (66), p. 88-91.\n\nGrehan, Helena: Performance, Ethics and Spectatorship in a Global Age, Basinstoke: Palgrave Macmillan, 2009. p. 63-92\n\nGrehan, Helena (2010): “Aboriginal Performance: Politics, Empathy and the Question of Reciprocity”. In: Australasian Drama Studies (56). p. 38-52\n\nPalmer, Dave: Ngapartji Ngapartji: The Consequences of Kindness, Perth: Murdoch University, 2010.\n\nRankin, Scott: Ngapartji Ngapartji, in Namatjira / Ngapartji Ngapartji, Currency Press: Sydney, 2012. <http://www.currency.com.au/product_detail.aspx?productid=2516&ReturnUrl=/search.aspx?q=ngapartji>.\n\nSometimes, Beth et al.: “Ngapartji Ngapartji; Indigenous Languages in the Arts”, in: Hobson, John et al.: Re-Awakening Languages. Theory and Practice in the Revitalisation of Australia’s Indigenous Languages, Sydney: Sydney University Press, 2010. p. 84-89\n\n"}
{"id": "624625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=624625", "title": "On the Cruelty of Really Teaching Computer Science", "text": "On the Cruelty of Really Teaching Computer Science\n\n“On the Cruelty of Really Teaching Computing Science” is a 1988 paper by E. W. Dijkstra which argues that computer programming should be understood as a branch of mathematics, and that the formal provability of a program is a major criterion for correctness.\n\nDespite the title, most of the article is on Dijkstra’s attempt to put computer science into a wider perspective within science, teaching being addressed as a corollary at the end.\nSpecifically, Dijkstra made a “proposal for an introductory programming course for freshmen” that\nconsisted of Hoare logic as an uninterpreted formal system.\n\nSince the term \"software engineering\" was coined, formal verification has almost always been considered too resource-intensive to be feasible. In complex applications, the difficulty of correctly specifying what the program should do in the first place is also a common source of error. Other methods of software testing are generally employed to try to eliminate bugs and many other factors are considered in the measurement of software quality.\n\nThe notion that cost of production of hardware should be a constraint in programming was foreign to Dijkstra. He viewed the cost controls as artifacts that could become excuses and the controls of nature as nonexistent in digital systems, which above the level of circuits guarantee a second, constructed nature.\n\nUntil the end of his life, Dijkstra maintained that the central challenges of computing hadn’t been met to his satisfaction, due to an insufficient emphasis on program correctness (though not obviating other requirements, such as maintainability and efficiency).\n\nComputer science as taught today does not follow of Dijkstra's advice. The curricula generally emphasize techniques for managing complexity and preparing for future changes, following Dijkstra's earlier writings. These include abstraction, programming by contract, and design patterns. Programming techniques to avoid bugs and conventional software testing methods are taught as basic requirements, and students are exposed to certain mathematical tools, but formal verification methods are not included in the curriculum except perhaps as an advanced topic. So in some ways, Dijkstra's ideas have been adhered to; however, the ideas he felt most strongly about have not been.\n\nNewly formed curricula in software engineering have adopted Dijkstra's recommendations. The focus of these programs is the formal specification of software requirements and design in order to facilitate the formal validation of system correctness. In Canada, they are often accredited engineering degrees with similar core competencies in physics-based engineering.\n\nThere is also greater emphasis on the social aspects of programming, such as learning how to program as part of a team, and how to write code that is easily re-used by other people, or \"borrowing\" code from other programs' source code, which was not considered immoral or illegal at the time. Some institutions focus more on pleasing the computing industry by teaching the most popular programming languages, or teaching the use of commonly available development tools, than they do on imparting the foundational concepts of computing science.\n"}
{"id": "5201941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5201941", "title": "Pre-service teacher education", "text": "Pre-service teacher education\n\nPre-service teacher education is the education and training provided to student teachers before they have undertaken any teaching.\n\nBefore entering into a pre-service education program, most students will have obtained a previous academic degree, either a general or honours, in a subject of their choice, (\"e.g.\" English, math, science, religion). The alternative to this is that students may work simultaneously on an undergraduate bachelor's degree and a pre-service education program. The latter route incorporates education courses throughout the program's 4 or 5 years, and culminates in a final year of specific pre-service training. Students who complete a bachelor's degree before returning to a university to complete the pre-service education program are in a \"consecutive\" pre-service program, while students who complete their pre-service training at the same time as their undergraduate degree are in a \"concurrent\" program. \n\nIn Australia, pre-service teachers generally undergo an online course for qualification into pre-service teacher education. these courses are designed to enhance teachers' knowledge, skills and confidence.\n\nIn the United Kingdom, a teaching qualification in further education (TQFE) is offered at many universities and can be used as a qualification in pre-service teacher education.\n\nIn the US, students are often required to take a test prior to acceptance into an accredited program, and/or upon graduation in order to earn certification. Commonly, the PRAXIS I or PRAXIS II are required for this purpose. Common topics include classroom management, lesson plans, and professional development. There are a number of places to study pre service teacher education in the US. The Michigan State University offers courses in elementary and secondary teacher preparation, as well as a master's degree in teaching and curriculum.\n\nThe practical nature of pre-service education training programs aligns with American philosopher John Dewey's theory of experience. In his book Experience and Education Dewey prescribes that learning must be based upon the actual life experiences of an individual that are interactive, experimental, and purposive in nature. Donald Schon expanded upon Dewey's model by focusing further upon the importance of reflective practice in the learning process. Schon was a proponent of using reflection in teacher education and other professions to guide learning through reflection on past experiences to guide future learning and practice, as evidenced in his 1996 work, Educating the reflective practitioner: Toward a new design for teaching and learning in the professions.\n\nProvincial and state territories across North America vary greatly in population, language, demographics, geography and other social factors. As such the universities and colleges that offer pre-service education recognize unique factors about the student populations they serve, and in response have created unique programs to meet those needs. That being said, there are two major components that are common to pre-service education programs.\n\nA major focus in the pre-service education program is the practicum - the pre-service teacher is placed within a school setting (either elementary, or senior) and shadows an experienced teacher. All faculties of education in Canada include a practicum component in their pre-service programs. The pre-service teacher will be given opportunities to develop skills through observing their associate teacher, creating lesson plans, teaching lessons and experiential learning about classroom management.\n\nTo complement the practicum, pre-service programs offer academic based courses, designed to expose teacher candidates to collaborative inquiry, current research, educational philosophy, theory, pedagogy and practical resources to provide a foundation for their work as educators. This, combined with the experience gained through the practicum prepare the next generation of teachers for the challenges of the classroom.\n\nAfter completing a pre-service program, a graduate must apply for certification to be hired by a public school board. This is granted by a provincial or state governing authority. Not all pre-service programs are designed the same and a certificate obtained in one country may not be recognized in another. Within the US, state-to-state reciprocity is limited. In Canada jurisdictional requirements for teacher education differs provincially, and each province has a designated authority responsible for the evaluation, certification and provision of teacher qualifications. It is significantly more challenging to receive certification in a state or province other than that in which the teacher attended their pre-service program. This makes it difficult for pre-service graduates to find employment outside of the state or province in which they received their training.\n\n"}
{"id": "574718", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=574718", "title": "Southern Oregon University", "text": "Southern Oregon University\n\nSouthern Oregon University (SOU) is a public liberal arts college located in Ashland, Oregon, United States. Founded in 1926, it was formerly known as Southern Oregon College and Southern Oregon State College. It offers programs in business, economics, criminology, natural sciences, including environmental science, Shakespearean studies and theatre arts programs. It is headquarters for Jefferson Public Radio and public access station Rogue Valley Television. Southern Oregon University is a member of the Council of Public Liberal Arts Colleges.\n\nSouthern Oregon University began as Ashland Academy in 1872, founded in part by Reverend Henry Skidmore of Oregon's Methodist Episcopal Church. In 1878, the school was renamed Ashland College, and then renamed Ashland College and Normal School in 1879. In 1887, the State of Oregon proclaimed the school an official state normal school. However, the state did not provide any funding for the school, and in 1890 the school closed. In 1892, the school selected a new site in the city with financial assistance from Methodists in Portland, and construction began on what was named the Ashland Collegiate Institute. The school reopened in 1895 as the Southern Oregon State Normal School, and state funding began in 1899.\nIn 1904, the school became a full state school, but funding was eliminated in 1909, leading to the closing of the campus. In 1926, the state reestablished Southern Oregon State Normal School in Ashland at a new location on land donated by the city, where the university is currently located. The residents of Ashland passed the \"Normal School Site Bonds\" to build the new facility. The building was later named Churchill Hall after the Normal School' president Churchill who oversaw the relocation project. Churchill now serves as Southern's administrative building, with the president's office on the first level. Churchill Hall closely resembles Eastern Oregon University's Inlow Hall. Both buildings were built at during the same time from the same architecture semantics. The buildings were designed by architect John Bennes and retain their original Renaissance style.\n\nIn 1932, the Oregon State Board of Higher Education renamed the institute Southern Oregon Normal School. In 1939, the state board eliminated normal schools in Oregon. The university received full accreditation from the American Association of Teachers Colleges. With the accreditation, Oregon Governor Charles A. Sprague signed into law the bill changing the institution's name to Southern Oregon College of Education. In 1956, the university underwent another name change, to Southern Oregon College to reflect the institute's diverse degree options. In 1975, it was renamed Southern Oregon State College. In 1979 Dr. Natale Sicuro became president and led the movement in 1997, it officially became Southern Oregon University.\n\nIn the spring of 2014 the faculty of Southern Oregon University held a vote of no confidence in President Mary Cullinan, Provost James Klein, and Vice President of Finance and Administration Craig Morris, citing a failure in leadership and fiscal mismanagement. 83% of the faculty participated in the vote, with 76% of those faculty expressing no confidence in Cullinan, 84% expressing no confidence in Klein, and 92% expressing no confidence in Morris. Cullinan and Klein subsequently left the University.\n\nIn 2014, Roy Saigo signed on as the university's interim president. He served until the end of 2015-16 school year.\n\nSouthern Oregon University consists of the College of Arts and Sciences, the School of Business, and the School of Education. In addition to the main campus, classes are offered on the university's satellite campus in downtown Medford. The main campus is home to an Oregon Health Science University satellite campus, which maintains a school of nursing. An Honors College was inaugurated in 2013. \n\nThe College of Arts and Sciences was formed in 2007 by combining the SOU School of Arts & Letters, School of Sciences, and the School of Social Sciences. In 2011, \"U.S. News & World Report\" ranked Southern as the 71st best amongst the regional universities in the west.\n\nSouthern Oregon University and Rogue Community College worked together to implement the guidelines of the white paper \"Annexation of Jackson County to the District of Rogue Community College,\" signed on March 6, 1996. During the 1997–99 biennium, Rogue Community College and Southern Oregon University received regional partnership funding from the legislature to jointly launch several new initiatives to provide additional access for a larger number of residents in southern Oregon. Construction on the downtown Medford center broke ground March 2007 and was completed September 2008. The three-story, center includes classrooms, science labs, computer labs, a Prometric Testing Center and the Business Center. The Higher Education Center offers lower- and upper-division level courses, as well as three master's degree programs: Master in Business Administration (offered in a cohort format with classes held on Saturdays), Master in Management (courses offered online and at night), and the Master of Arts in Teaching (a two-year, part-time version of the Southern Oregon University one-year Master of Arts in Teaching program).\n\nThe library was named after Oregon state senator Lenn Hannon after he secured $20 million in government bonds and $3.5 million in private support. The \"Hannon Library\" finished construction in 2005. To show their support the board named initially named the library \"The Lenn and Dixie Hannon Library\" but was later changed to just \"Hannon Library\". The library almost doubled the size of the existing library and making much needed room for expanding publications. The library also had many technological advancements that kept long term value for the community. \n\nThe \"Siskiyou\" a student edited university paper staffed by student reporters and photographers. It is published online each Wednesday during the academic year.\n\nMany of the majors offered at the university have associated clubs. There are clubs for hobbies, sports, and music, as well as continued support for multiculturalism. Southern Oregon University students are involved in community arts. \"Outside\" magazine rated Southern Oregon University 20th on a list of U.S. universities in 2003, based on recreational opportunities.\n\nStudent activities and support are supplemented by a number of resource centers on campus. The Women's Resource Center, Ecology Center of the Siskiyous, Commuter Resource Center, and the Queer Resource Center all provide services, resources, and events to their respective communities. The university is represented on the Board of Directors of the Oregon Student Association.\n\nThere are several Residence Halls on campus, as well as family housing complexes.\nA new residence complex, the North Campus Village, began construction in the Spring of 2012 and opened in the Fall of 2013.\n\nSouthern Oregon sports teams, known as the Raiders, have the Red-tailed Hawk as a mascot. The Raiders are a member of the NAIA, primarily competing in the Cascade Collegiate Conference. Men's sports include basketball, cross country, football, track & field and wrestling; while women's sports include basketball, cross country, soccer, softball, track & field and volleyball. Southern Oregon's football team competes in the Frontier Conference, winning the NAIA championship in 2014, and its wrestling team competes as an Independent in the NAIA West Regional, winning the National Wrestling Championship four times: in 1978, 1983, 1994, and 2001.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45321979", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45321979", "title": "Théodore Limperg", "text": "Théodore Limperg\n\nThéodore Limperg jr. (Amsterdam, December 21, 1879 – Amsterdam, December 6, 1961) was a Dutch accountant, and Professor in Business economics at the University of Amsterdam. He is particularly known for his contribution to the international debate about replacement costs in the 1920s.\n\nThéodore Limperg was born late 1879 as the son of Theodorus Limperg, chief administrative officer in Amsterdam, and Mathilda Speijer. Because his father's first name and his were almost alike, he called himself Th. Limperg jr. throughout his life. He graduated in 1897 at the Commercial High School, and in 1900 obtained a teaching licence in accounting. In the same year he started his training to become Chartered Accountant at the Dutch Institute of Accountants (Nederlands Instituut van Accountants NIvA), predecessor of the Nederlands Instituut van Registeraccountants (NIVRA), and acquired his degree in 1904.\n\nLimperg had started working as assistant accountant to gain practical experience. In 1901 he was admitted to the Netherlands Institute of Accountants, and joined the accountancy firm Volmer & Co as member. Some years later with his younger brother, who had become auditor, he founded the firm Th. and L. Limperg. This company merged in 1970 with Moret, De Jong & Starke to Moret & Limperg, which eventually merged into Ernst & Young. In 1922 Limperg was appointed Professor of Business Economics at the Municipal University of Amsterdam, nowadays University of Amsterdam. He ended his work as practicing accountant at the firm Th. and L. Limperg. In addition to his professorship he served in various administrative and advisory positions.\n\nDuring World War II within the Senate of the Municipal University of Amsterdam, he was one of the leading figures in the resistance against the Germans. He was dismissed from his post in April 1943 and was forced into hiding. His son, the architect Koen Limperg, belonged to the resistance group that organised the attack on the Amsterdam Resident registration office in 1943. He was later captured and executed 1 July 1943 in Overveen.\n\nAfter the Liberation Limperg took up his professorship again, and served another five years until his retirement in 1950.\n\nLimperg married twice: In 1906 with Emma Altink (deceased in 1947), and in 1953 with Marguerite Isabelle Marie Goossens. He had three children. Besides Koen he had a son Theo, who was a lawyer and specialized in copyright law, and a daughter Emmy, first economics teacher and later lecturer in Wageningen.\n\nLimpergs ideas on accountancy in general are considered of great significance for the development of accountancy and business economics in The Netherlands. However, he sparingly published. His collected works was largely compiled from college notes made by his disciples. Limperg's economic theories have become known through the writings of his students, especially through the work of Salomon Kleerekoper. Limperg has been named 'patriarch of the Dutch accountants.' The cornerstone of his work was his theory about replacement value.\n\nLimperg wanted to bring the accountancy practice and theory on a higher level. He published a series of articles starting in 1905 in the newly established \"Accountancy\" journal about the future direction of the profession, and its requirements. Another focus was on the relationship between accountancy and society. Limperg argued, that auditor reports should not only be prepared for direct clients, but for anyone who wants to take notice.\n\nIn 1905 he became editor-in-chief at the \"Accountancy\" journal. In his articles he criticized the Nederlands Instituut van Accountants NIvA (Dutch Institute of Chartered Accountants), of which he was a member as well. The institute didn't take this for granted. When the board of the institute came into conflict with a fellow member, J.G.Ch. Volmer, Limperg chose his side. In 1906 Limperg was disbarred by Niva-governance. Many other members followed his example and stepped down. In the same year these dissidents jointly founded the Nederlandsche Accountants-Vereeniging NAV (Dutch Accountants Institute).\n\nIn the years following Limperg would shape the organization a model accountancy organization. The \"Accountancy\" journal became the prime magazine of the association. The Nederlandsche Accountants-Vereeniging upheld stringent entrance requirements, and conducted its own examinations. A disciplinary board supervised the conduct of its members. The Nederlandsche Accountants-Vereeniging eventually merged into the Nederlands Instituut van Accountants in 1919. With the merge the new methods, quality standards for membership and the disciplinary board, became standard practice.\n\nIn 1923 after a dispute with the publisher Limperg started a new monthly accountancy magazine, entitled \"Maandblad voor Accountancy en Bedrijfseconomie (MAB),\" which still exists nowadays.\n\nBeside the accountancy profession, Limperg campaigned for quality improvement of the Dutch business education and trade education on an academic level in a separate university. In 1913 he got his way, when in Rotterdam the Netherlands School of Commerce was founded, which in 1973 became the Erasmus University Rotterdam. In 1921 in the University of Amsterdam a new Faculteit der Handelswetenschappen (Faculty of Trade science) got started, which would become the Faculty of Economics and Econometrics.\n\nLimperg would bear his mark on the organization and growth of the new faculty. He proposed additional auditor training, which started in 1929, and proposed to change its name to Faculty of Economics, which was implemented in 1935.\n\nIn his days, buildings, machinery and inventories on the balance sheet were traditionally validated based on historical costs; the costs paid to produce or to purchase the item. Another, better picture of the value can be determined based on replacement costs; the price one would pay to produce or to purchase the item. As a consequence, the assets of the company should be regularly reassessed. That provides a revaluation reserve, which is part of the equity.\n\nThis idea didn't originate from Limperg, but he did further develop the concept. His ideas had a decisive influence on the method of cost calculation and determination of profit in several Dutch companies, including Philips.\n\nThe Dutch legislation offers a choice between valuation at historical cost or valuation at replacement cost. Even after the introduction of the International Financial Reporting Standards (IFRS) for listed companies that still applies. Under International Financial Reporting Standards, the company is required to pay for the replacement of the value to be taken. For equipment they may continue to use the replacement cost.\n\nSome of the most noted students of Limperg.\nBecause many proponents of Limperg's theories taught at the University of Amsterdam (like Limperg himself), they are often called the \"Amsterdam School\" of accountancy.\n\nLimperg can be seen in many ways as a social democrat. He didn't emphasize his political views too much, to uphold his position as scientist, but he was politically engaged. In November 1938 he co-authored with fourteen others (among them the later Minister of Finance Piet Lieftinck), an open letter to the government regarding the policy of public finance. The manifesto opposed the conservative politics promoted by the direct advisers to the government, and called for a more active economic policy. Limperg also espoused the Plan van de Arbeid (Labor Plan), a plan to combat the economical crisis, drawn up by Hein Vos and Jan Tinbergen in the early thirties.\n\nAfter the Second World War Limperg took a seat in the Board of Trustees of the scientific department of the Nederlands Verbond van Vakverenigingen (Dutch Trade Union Confederation).\n\nThe work of Limperg received much acknowledgements. In 1935 he was appointed honorary president of the Comité International de l'Organisation Scientifique. The Netherlands School of Commerce (now Erasmus University Rotterdam) awarded him an honorary doctorate in 1947. In 1950 he received the Wallace Clark Medal for his international contribution to scientific management.\n\nThe Dutch inter-university institute for accountancy bears his name: Limperg Institute. This institute, in which five universities and the Nederlandse Beroepsorganisatie van Accountants (NBA), the Dutch association of auditors, cooperate, coordinates the Dutch postgraduate accountancy courses. The Institute organizes the annual Limperg Day, where the Limperg Medal is awarded to an individual, who has made a significant contribution to scientific research in the fields of accounting and auditing.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "42983328", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42983328", "title": "University of North Carolina academic-athletic scandal", "text": "University of North Carolina academic-athletic scandal\n\nThe University of North Carolina academic-athletic scandal involved proven fraud and academic dishonesty committed at the University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill (UNC). It is one of the most notorious academic scandals in United States history. Following a lesser scandal that began in 2010 involving academic fraud and improper benefits with the university's football program, two hundred questionable classes offered by the university's African and Afro-American Studies department (commonly known as AFAM) came to light. While initially the media focused more on the implications for the famous UNC men's basketball program, the entire university was placed on probation by its accrediting organization.\n\nAn internal investigation by the university released in 2011 and another investigation commissioned by former North Carolina governor Jim Martin in 2012 found numerous academic and ethical issues with the AFAM department, including unauthorized grade changes and faculty signatures, a disproportionate number of independent study class offerings relative to other departments, and an over-representation of student-athletes enrolled in such classes. Then in 2014 began charges and counter-charges between university officials and former learning specialist Mary Willingham, including disputes about statistics and methods of analysis by Willingham alleging that certain student-athletes are not academically qualified for college. As a result of these revelations, the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools placed the university on probation for one year, endangering the university's regional accreditation. Losing accreditation would have resulted in the loss of any federal funding or support. \n\nThe university introduced new standards, protocols and rules to ensure nothing similar could ever happen again. As a result, UNC successfully exited probation and regained full standing by June 2016. The National Collegiate Athletic Association (NCAA) then completed its own investigation in October 2017, finding no violations of its rules, since the NCAA does not interfere with a university's academic programs. \n\nThe controversy sparked debate as to whether the university educated some of its student-athletes improperly and called into question the role of NCAA Division I athletics relative to the academic mission of NCAA-member colleges and universities.\n\nGreg Barnes of Inside Carolina initially broke the scandal with ESPN following closely behind. On July 15, 2010, ESPN reported that the NCAA interviewed several North Carolina football players over alleged gifts, extra benefits, and sports agent involvement. Reportedly, the investigation began after North Carolina defensive tackle Marvin Austin made a post on Twitter on May 29 that year, and the post contained a reference to a nightclub in Miami in which a sports agent's party had taken place two months earlier. The university later suspended Austin and over ten other football players from the team. On October 11, 2010, Austin was expelled from the football team, and the NCAA declared wide receiver Greg Little and defensive end Robert Quinn \"permanently ineligible\" due to receiving improper benefits.\n\nOn August 26, 2010, the NCAA began a separate investigation of North Carolina football that involved possible academic fraud involving a tutor in the university's academic support program. The tutor was later identified as Jennifer Wiley ( known as Jennifer Wiley Thompson due to marriage). Another source familiar with the investigation said that Wiley was accused of \"inappropriate help on papers that football players were required to write for classes.\" However, Baddour said on September 24 that Wiley declined to cooperate with the NCAA.\n\nBecause the university felt that the NCAA investigation was extremely embarrassing to the university's reputation, North Carolina fired football head coach Butch Davis on July 27, 2011. The next day, athletic director Dick Baddour announced that he would resign and allow chancellor Holden Thorp to hire a football head coach.\n\nOn March 12, 2012, the NCAA issued formal sanctions against North Carolina football: a postseason ban for 2012, reductions of 15 scholarships, and 3 years of probation. The NCAA found North Carolina guilty of multiple infractions, including academic fraud and failure to monitor the football program. However, the NCAA did not find anything extending to lack of institutional control, explaining that the university \"educated its tutors regarding academic improprieties and its coaches regarding outside athletically related income...self-discovered the academic fraud and took decisive action...cooperated fully, is not a repeat violator and...exhibited appropriate control over its athletics program.\" In November 2013, the university sent a letter of disassociation to Austin, Little, and Quinn.\n\nThe crux of the alleged irregularities proceeded from the UNC Department of African and Afro-American Studies. Over approximately fifteen years, the department offered two hundred independent study courses, many without full adherence to University procedure for course provisioning or sufficient professorial oversight. The irregularities called into question the Department's academic integrity and led to the Southern Association of Colleges and Schools putting the university on academic probation for one year, an almost unprecedented step against a major research university.\n\nA basic charge by critics was that UNC did not live up to its end of the bargain by not sufficiently educating some of its student-athletes. Rebecca Schuman of \"Slate.com\" accused the university of \"abjectly failing some of its students\" by keeping them \"functionally illiterate.\"\n\nGerald Gurney, president of the Drake Group for Academic Integrity in College Sport, called UNC \"the mother of all academic fraud violations\" because of \"cooperation of friendly faculty and [a] cover-up.\" Paul M. Barrett, in a cover story for the March 3, 2014 \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" magazine, wrote: \"...rather than seriously investigate the connection between sports and classroom corruption, top university administrators used vague committee reports to obfuscate the issue.\"\n\nSuspicions about the UNC Department of African and Afro-American Studies were raised as early as 2011. UNC defensive end Michael McAdoo filed a lawsuit against the NCAA on July 1, 2011 seeking reinstatement to the football team. The NCAA declared McAdoo ineligible for accepting improper benefits and committing academic fraud, based on the UNC Undergraduate Honor Court finding that McAdoo committed academic dishonesty by having Jennifer Wiley complete a bibliography and works-cited section on a research paper for an AFAM class. From this lawsuit, McAdoo was forced to make public the paper; an analysis by Dan Kane of the Raleigh \"News & Observer\" found that the Honor Court failed to find multiple instances of plagiarism in McAdoo's paper. On July 13, a North Carolina Superior Court judge in Durham refused to grant an injunction against the NCAA, thus upholding ineligibility for McAdoo.\n\nThen in August, Dan Kane reported that football player Marvin Austin took a 400-level course in the department the summer before his freshman fall semester. According to an academic adviser at the university, \"it is unusual for any freshman to begin his or her college education with a 400 level course.\" On September 1, 2011, just over a week after Kane's article about Austin's transcript was published, AFAM department chair Julius Nyang'oro resigned from his executive position but remained on faculty.\n\nMore controversy for AFAM came after the transcript of former North Carolina football and basketball player Julius Peppers was found under a University of North Carolina web address (www.unc.edu) by members of \"PackPride\", a Scout.com community for fans of rival school NC State. A university staffer originally posted the transcript with Peppers's identifying information removed on a secure UNC server as a test record in 2001. Six years later, another staffer mistakenly moved the test record to an unsecured server. The transcript showed a cumulative grade point average of 1.82 from the summer 1998 to spring 2001 terms with 11 grades of D or F. Additionally, Peppers's grades for AFAM classes were on average higher than for non-AFAM classes, and Peppers was never academically ineligible for athletic competition despite his grades. Through his agent, Peppers confirmed that the transcript was his and stated that there was \"no academic fraud.\" University chancellor Holden Thorp later apologized to Peppers.\n\nOn May 2, 2012, UNC released the results of an internal investigation into AFAM courses commissioned by Jonathan Hartlyn, senior associate dean for social sciences and global programs, and William L. Andrews, senior associate dean for fine arts and humanities. The report examined AFAM classes from the summer 2007 to summer 2011 sessions. Among the findings in the Hartlyn-Andrews report:\n\nOn December 19, 2012, UNC released a report, commissioned by former North Carolina governor Jim Martin, in collaboration with accounting firm Baker Tilly Virchow Krause, LLP. The report examined data back to the 1990s. Among its findings:\n\nThere were felony fraud charges brought against Nyang'oro for being paid $12,000 to teach a non-existent class, but these charges were dropped by the Orange County district attorney based on recommendations from Kenneth Wainstein in exchange for Nyang'oro's cooperation.\n\nOne of the academic tutors assigned to help student-athletes was Mary Willingham, who was hired by the university in 2003 to assist student-athletes with their academic work. Willingham's 2009 Master of Arts thesis for the University of North Carolina at Greensboro was titled \"Academics & athletics - a clash of cultures: Division I football programs\" and asserted in part: \"While admission standards are on the rise at major public universities, many under-prepared student-athletes (football) are admitted each year because they are the 'best' player in the state/country, creating academic disparities.\" In a November 2012 interview with Dan Kane of \"The News & Observer\", Willingham made her initial claims about the university helping student-athletes stay eligible via improper assistance. In 2013, the Drake Group gave Willingham the Robert Maynard Hutchins Award for being \"a university faculty or staff member who defends the institution's academic integrity in the face of college athletics.\"\n\nIn early 2014, Willingham went to national media to express her concerns about the university. In interviews with Sara Ganim of CNN in January and Paul M. Barrett of \"Bloomberg Businessweek\" in March, Willingham alleged:\n\nIn response to Willingham's claims about student-athlete literacy, UNC released another report by a board of educational experts outside the university that examined data between 2004 and 2012. That report found that there were 341 men's and women's basketball players and football players during these years; of this group, 34 students did not meet CNN's threshold of being \"college literate\", which meant a minimum SAT reading score of 400 or an ACT score of 16; essentially, the university suggested that of its athletes, ten percent had academic issues. This is in contrast with the allegation by Mary Willingham, based on her personal investigations, that 60% of college athletes were not \"college literate\". In another of her analyses, she found that 150 to 200 of 400 student-athletes were \"underperforming\", some \"badly underperforming\", with the last group being mostly made of men's and women's players of basketball and football. One view suggested that the university's response to these and other allegations was to try to change the focus away from wrongdoing, in part by challenging Willingham's assertions and research. The review board disputed her findings on the grounds that her methodology was not appropriate.\n\nA series of emails released on 11/29/2015 containing 20,000+ pages of communications, including emails between Mary Willingham and other UNC staff members, seem to lend credence to the review board's refutation of Willinghams's methodology. Willingham never provided the methodology she used to come to her conclusions. Notwithstanding the fact that there is no methodology for combining multiple tests to determine grade levels, however there was one person who could completely confirm Willingham's findings. Lyn Johnson was the psychologist who administered and scored the tests in question and aggregated the data for the UNC academic support program. In a January 16, 2014 email exchange between Johnson and Willingham, Johnson asks Willingham to explain her conclusions, stating \"Where did you get the 60% reading below 8th grade level?\" Willingham didn't explain how, and that Johnson had to ask confirms Willingham didn't obtain her conclusions from Johnson. This strongly supports the review board's findings that Willinghams's methodology was not appropriate.\n\nWillingham also was interviewed by Bernard Goldberg in a report for HBO's \"Real Sports with Bryant Gumbel\" that was broadcast on March 25, 2014. The report was a general look at how some top NCAA Division I schools hire learning specialists like Willingham to help keep student-athletes eligible. A representative for UNC stated in response that HBO reported on \"information that has previously been reported and discussed.\"\n\nA segment by ESPN's \"Outside the Lines\" from March 25, 2014 drew attention because Willingham showed a 146-word essay about Rosa Parks and claimed that an unnamed student-athlete at UNC earned an A-minus in an AFAM class for turning that essay in. However, according to \"Slate.com\", the paper shown by Willingham \"was most likely a draft of one piece of a take-home final for a legitimate introductory course.\" \"The News & Observer\" stated in a clarification note to a story that mentioned that essay: \"It is unclear what grade the student received for the essay. Willingham said it was a class that met, and had other assignments.\"\n\nIn April 2014, Willingham announced her resignation. In June 2014, Willingham filed a lawsuit against UNC.\n\nIn August 2014, citing posts in the Scout.com UNC message board \"Inside Carolina\", Dan Kane reported in \"The News & Observer\" that passages in Willingham's 2009 master's thesis appeared to be plagiarized.\n\nOn June 6, 2014, the ESPN program \"Outside the Lines\" broadcast an interview with Rashad McCants, who was a starter on the North Carolina basketball team that won the 2005 NCAA championship, in which McCants claimed to have taken phony classes and had tutors write his classwork. However, all sixteen other members of the 2005 team released a statement which disputed McCants's account. Additionally, coach Roy Williams, separately interviewed by the same program, disputed McCants's claims. In contrast, in a noted 2004 interview with television station WRAL, McCants compared attending UNC with being in jail.\n\nInterviewed again on \"Outside the Lines\" on June 11, McCants stood by his claims about his academic experience at North Carolina. He also called on his fellow members of the 2004–05 basketball team to release their university transcripts because, in his opinion, \"the truth is there in the transcripts\" regarding bogus classes.\n\nUniversity officials contacted McCants via mail and text message in the days following ESPN's initial interview with McCants, because McCants expressed \"knowledge of potential NCAA rule violations involving the University of North Carolina,\" according to a letter signed by the athletics director of compliance. However, McCants had not responded as of July 7, nor had he discussed his claims with the NCAA, according to the Associated Press.\n\nIn February 2014, the university hired Kenneth L. Wainstein, a former official in the United States Department of Justice, to conduct an independent investigation.\n\nOn October 22, 2014, the report was released reporting that for 18 years, at least 3,100 students took \"nonexistent\" classes, saying, \"These counselors saw the paper classes and the artificially high grades they yielded as key to helping some student-athletes remain eligible.\" The report named both Julius Nyang'oro and Debbie Crowder as facilitators of the practice.\n\nSome reforms have been instituted. These included better governance standards, more accountability for support programs for student-athletes, new department structures, and more classroom audits and oversight of courses, according to a university source. Employees called \"checkers\" were sent to classes to see whether, in fact, they were being held, as part of an improved auditing system. Further, university officials made statements which affirmed that they were proud of the accomplishments of their sports programs and varsity teams. An athletics director spoke highly of the university's scholarship program; one said most of their student-athletes graduate and have successful careers. Some officials criticized the allegations; for example, a basketball coach objected that the allegations had slandered the \"moral character of his players.\"\n\nOn October 13, 2017, the NCAA announced it would not levy penalties against North Carolina, saying it \"could not conclude that the University of North Carolina violated N.C.A.A. academic rules.\" In their defense, North Carolina cited cases where Auburn and Michigan had similar misconduct and the NCAA did not act. It was ultimately concluded by the panel that the courses were for the entire student body, not just the student-athletes. The panel did conclude that since Nyang'oro did not cooperate with the investigation he was issued a five-year show-cause period as punishment for him, \"any NCAA member school employing the [Nyang'oro] must show cause why he should not have restrictions on athletically related activity.\"\n\nCommittee on Infractions head for the NCAA, Greg Sankey, stated \"While student-athletes likely benefited from the so-called 'paper courses' offered by North Carolina, the information available in the record did not establish that the courses were solely created, offered and maintained as an orchestrated effort to benefit student-athletes.\" North Carolina chancellor Carol Folt commented on the resolution of the case when she said \"I believe we have done everything possible to correct and move beyond the past academic irregularities and have established very robust processes to prevent them from recurring.\" Tyrone P. Thomas, a lawyer for Mintz Levin and does work with colleges and universities, felt the ruling was \"... a massive loophole, and from the P.R. side it looks horrible — these athletes can do what they do, and it looks horrible. But guess what? Maybe that's not the N.C.A.A.'s job. This is something the schools have always self-regulated.\" \n\n\n"}
{"id": "5283815", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5283815", "title": "Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority", "text": "Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority\n\nThe Victorian Curriculum and Assessment Authority (VCAA) is a statutory authority of the Government of Victoria responsible for the provision of curriculum and assessment programs for students in Victoria, Australia. The VCAA is primarily accountable to the Victorian Minister for Education. It is also responsible to the Minister for Training and Skills and the Minister for Families and Children in relation to sections of Part 2.5 of the \"Education and Training Reform Act 2006\".\n\nThe mission of the VCAA is to provide high quality curriculum, assessment and reporting that enables individual lifelong learning. \n\nThe VCAA is responsible for the Victorian Early Learning and Development Framework (VELDF) and the Victorian Curriculum. The Victorian Curriculum F–10 sets out a single, coherent and comprehensive set of content descriptions and associated achievement standards to enable teachers to plan, monitor, assess and report on the learning achievement of every student. The Victorian Curriculum F–10 incorporates and reflects much of the Australian Curriculum F–10, but differs in some important respects, most notably the representation of the curriculum as a continuum of learning and the structural design. Victorian Government and Catholic schools are required to use the Victorian Curriculum F–10. Independent schools may use the Victorian Curriculum F–10 as a model and resource for the effective implementation of the Australian Curriculum.\n\nThe VCAA has taken a leading role in expanding delivery of the Victorian curriculum internationally. The framework to support this includes a northern hemisphere timetable. In 2015-16, more than 1400 students participated in VCAA assessment programs with 25 overseas providers and in 2015, 460 students completed the Victorian Certificate of Education (VCE) with offshore providers.\n\nAt the senior secondary level, the VCAA provides curriculum and assessment for the VCE and the Victorian Certificate of Applied Learning (VCAL).\n\nIn 2015 VCAA issued 258,472 VCE study scores to 76,320 students. There were 49,460 VCE completions and 13,257 VCAL certificate completions.\n\nThe VCAA also administers the National Assessment Program – Literacy and Numeracy (NAPLAN) which provides an indication of the literacy and numeracy skills of students. Students in Victoria undertake the testing in Years 3, 5, 7 and 9.\n\nThe VCAA showcases excellence in student work through the VCE Season of Excellence, an annual festival of works created by VCE students in technology, design, multimedia and the cinematic, visual and performing arts. It also recognises student achievement through the VCE Leadership Awards, Plain English Speaking Awards, VCAL Achievement Awards and Margaret Schofield Memorial Scholarships.\n\nIn a Year 12 VCE English examination in 2011 the VCAA instructed over 40,000 students to analyse a supposedly made-up blog that they in fact plagiarised from an opinion piece written by Helen Razer which was published in Melbourne-based newspaper \"The Age\" in 2010. Some of the comments written on the original article's webpage were also plagiarised. The VCAA apologised for this error and strengthened its practices to ensure that examination setting panels complied with copyright requirements in future.\n\nIn 2012 the VCAA caused further controversy when they published a digitally altered depiction of the painting \"Storming of the Winter Palace\" by Nikolai Kochergin in a history examination, which formed part of an image analysis question on the Russian Revolution. The altered painting depicted a BattleTech Marauder II robot participating in the storming along with the Bolsheviks in 1917. A VCAA spokesperson stated that the image was sourced from the internet, and that 5.5 percent of students had their scores adjusted due to the robot's presence. VCAA subsequently instituted a policy to ensure that future content would only be obtained from original source websites, rather than aggregator sites.\n\nIn 2016, a computer error allowed for 2075 students (approximately 2.5% of VCE candidates) to receive their ATAR score and VCE results five days earlier than they were supposed to be announced. External SMS provider for VCAA and VTAC, Salmat Digital, created an error that allowed for students to receive their results by texting VCAA and requesting their scores to be sent to them on the expected release date. This sparked outrage from parents of students who did not receive their scores, citing that they considered it \"unfair\". The VCAA and VTAC acted quickly to contact affected students and their schools to reassure them regarding the accidental early results release. The release of the remaining 97.5% of results took place without further issue at the planned time.\n\n"}
{"id": "6427366", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6427366", "title": "Weriyeng", "text": "Weriyeng\n\nWeriyeng (also spelled Warieng) is one of the last two schools of traditional navigation found in the central Caroline Islands in Micronesia, the other being Fanur. By tradition these two schools were considered to be the most high of all the schools of navigation that once dotted the islands of the central Carolines. By tradition the Weriyeng school was founded on the island of Pulap, which is today in the Pattiw region of Chuuk State, Federated States of Micronesia.\n\nMau Piailug is one of the most famous navigators of this school. He trained the well-known modern Hawaiian wayfinder Nainoa Thompson.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8877168", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8877168", "title": "WikiLeaks", "text": "WikiLeaks\n\nWikiLeaks () is an international non-profit organisation that publishes secret information, news leaks, and classified media provided by anonymous sources. Its website, initiated in 2006 in Iceland by the organisation Sunshine Press, claims a database of 10 million documents in 10 years since its launch. Julian Assange, an Australian Internet activist, is generally described as its founder and director. Kristinn Hrafnsson is its editor-in-chief.\n\nThe group has released a number of prominent document dumps. Early releases included documentation of equipment expenditures and holdings in the Afghanistan war and a report informing a corruption investigation in Kenya. In April 2010, WikiLeaks released the so-called \"Collateral Murder\" footage from the 12 July 2007 Baghdad airstrike in which Iraqi journalists were among those killed. Other releases in 2010 included the Afghan War Diary and the \"Iraq War Logs\". The latter allowed the mapping of 109,032 deaths in \"significant\" attacks by insurgents in Iraq that had been reported to Multi-National Force – Iraq, including about 15,000 that had not been previously published. In 2010, WikiLeaks also released the US State Department diplomatic \"cables\", classified cables that had been sent to the US State Department. In April 2011, WikiLeaks began publishing 779 secret files relating to prisoners detained in the Guantanamo Bay detention camp.\n\nDuring the 2016 US presidential election campaign, WikiLeaks released emails and other documents from the Democratic National Committee and from Hillary Clinton's campaign manager, John Podesta. These releases caused significant harm to the Clinton campaign, and have been attributed as a potential contributing factor to her loss. The U.S. intelligence community expressed \"high confidence\" that the leaked emails had been hacked by Russia and supplied to WikiLeaks, while WikiLeaks denied their source was Russia or any other state. During the campaign, WikiLeaks promoted conspiracy theories about Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party. In private conversations from November 2015 that were later leaked, Julian Assange expressed a preference for a GOP victory in the 2016 election, explaining that \"Dems+Media+liberals woudl [sic] then form a block to reign [sic] in their worst qualities. With Hillary in charge, GOP will be pushing for her worst qualities, dems+media+neoliberals will be mute.\" In secret correspondence with the Trump campaign on election day (8 November 2016), WikiLeaks encouraged the Trump campaign to contest the election results in case they lost.\n\nWikiLeaks has drawn criticism for its absence of whistleblowing on or criticism of Russia, and for criticising the Panama Papers' exposé of businesses and individuals with offshore bank accounts. WikiLeaks has also been criticised for inadequately curating its content and violating the personal privacy of individuals. WikiLeaks has, for instance, revealed Social Security numbers, medical information, credit card numbers, details of suicide attempts, and other sensitive personal information.\n\nThe wikileaks.org domain name was registered on 4 October 2006. The website was established and published its first document in December 2006. WikiLeaks is usually represented in public by Julian Assange, who has been described as \"the heart and soul of this organisation, its founder, philosopher, spokesperson, original coder, organiser, financier, and all the rest\". Sarah Harrison, Kristinn Hrafnsson and Joseph Farrell are the only other publicly known and acknowledged associates of Assange who are currently living. Harrison is also a member of Sunshine Press Productions along with Assange and Ingi Ragnar Ingason. Gavin MacFadyen was acknowledged by Assange as a ″beloved director of WikiLeaks″ shortly after his death in 2016.\n\nWikiLeaks was originally established with a \"wiki\" communal publication method, which was terminated by May 2010. Original volunteers and founders were once described as a mixture of Asian dissidents, journalists, mathematicians, and start-up company technologists from the United States, Taiwan, Europe, Australia, and South Africa. , the website had more than 1,200 registered volunteers.\n\nDespite some popular confusion, related to the fact both sites use the \"wiki\" name and website design template, WikiLeaks and Wikipedia are not affiliated. Wikia, a for-profit corporation affiliated loosely with the Wikimedia Foundation, purchased several WikiLeaks-related domain names as a \"protective brand measure\" in 2007.\n\nOn 26 September 2018, Julian Assange stepped down as editor-in-chief of WikiLeaks.\n\nAccording to the WikiLeaks website, its goal is \"to bring important news and information to the public ... One of our most important activities is to publish original source material alongside our news stories so readers and historians alike can see evidence of the truth.\" Another of the organisation's goals is to ensure that journalists and whistleblowers are not prosecuted for emailing sensitive or classified documents. The online \"drop box\" is described by the WikiLeaks website as \"an innovative, secure and anonymous way for sources to leak information to [WikiLeaks] journalists\".\n\nSome describe WikiLeaks as a media or journalistic organisation. For example, in a 2013 resolution, the International Federation of Journalists, a trade union of journalists, called WikiLeaks a \"new breed of media organisation\" that \"offers important opportunities for media organisations\". Harvard professor Yochai Benkler praised WikiLeaks as a new form of journalistic enterprise, testifying at the court-martial of Chelsea Manning (then Bradley Manning) that \"WikiLeaks did serve a particular journalistic function,\" and that the \"range of the journalist's privilege\" is \"a hard line to draw\". Others do not consider WikiLeaks to be journalistic in nature. Media ethicist Kelly McBride of the Poynter Institute for Media Studies wrote in 2011: \"WikiLeaks might grow into a journalist endeavor. But it's not there yet.\" Bill Keller of \"The New York Times\" considers WikiLeaks to be a \"complicated source\" rather than a journalistic partner. Prominent First Amendment lawyer Floyd Abrams writes that WikiLeaks is not a journalistic group, but instead \"an organization of political activists; ... a source for journalists; and ... a conduit of leaked information to the press and the public\". Noting Assange's statements that he and his colleagues read only a small fraction of information before deciding to publish it, Abrams writes: \"No journalistic entity I have ever heard of—none—simply releases to the world an elephantine amount of material it has not read.\"\n\nAccording to a January 2010 interview, the WikiLeaks team then consisted of five people working full-time and about 800 people who worked occasionally, none of whom were compensated. WikiLeaks does not have any official headquarters. In November 2010 the WikiLeaks-endorsed news and activism site WikiLeaks Central was initiated and was administrated by editor Heather Marsh who oversaw over 70 writers and volunteers. She resigned on 8 March 2012.\n\nWikiLeaks describes itself as \"an uncensorable system for untraceable mass document leaking\". The website is available on multiple servers, different domain names and has an official Darkweb version (available on the Tor Network) as a result of a number of denial-of-service attacks and its elimination from different Domain Name System (DNS) providers.\n\nUntil August 2010, WikiLeaks was hosted by PRQ, a Sweden-based company providing \"highly secure, no-questions-asked hosting services\". PRQ is said to have \"almost no information about its clientele and maintains few if any of its own logs\". Currently, WikiLeaks is hosted mainly by the Swedish Internet service provider Bahnhof in the Pionen facility, a former nuclear bunker in Sweden. Other servers are spread around the world with the main server located in Sweden. Julian Assange has said that the servers are located in Sweden and the other countries \"specifically because those nations offer legal protection to the disclosures made on the site\". He talks about the Swedish constitution, which gives the information–providers total legal protection. It is forbidden, according to Swedish law, for any administrative authority to make inquiries about the sources of any type of newspaper. These laws, and the hosting by PRQ, make it difficult for any authority to eliminate WikiLeaks; they place an onus of proof upon any complainant whose suit would circumscribe WikiLeaks' liberty, e.g. its rights to exercise free speech online. Furthermore, \"WikiLeaks maintains its own servers at undisclosed locations, keeps no logs and uses military-grade encryption to protect sources and other confidential information.\" Such arrangements have been called \"bulletproof hosting\".\n\nAfter the site became the target of a denial-of-service attack on its old servers, WikiLeaks moved its website to Amazon's servers. Later, however, the website was \"ousted\" from the Amazon servers. In a public statement, Amazon said that WikiLeaks was not following its terms of service. The company further explained: \"There were several parts they were violating. For example, our terms of service state that 'you represent and warrant that you own or otherwise control all of the rights to the content ... that use of the content you supply does not violate this policy and will not cause injury to any person or entity.' It's clear that WikiLeaks doesn't own or otherwise control all the rights to this classified content.\" WikiLeaks was then moved to servers at OVH, a private web-hosting service in France. After criticism from the French government, the company sought two court rulings about the legality of hosting WikiLeaks. While the court in Lille immediately refused to force OVH to deactivate the WikiLeaks website, the court in Paris stated it would need more time to examine the complex technical issue.\n\nWikiLeaks used EveryDNS, but was dropped by the company after distributed denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks against WikiLeaks hurt the quality of service for its other customers. Supporters of WikiLeaks waged verbal and DDoS attacks on EveryDNS. Because of a typographical error in blogs mistaking EveryDNS for competitor \"EasyDNS\", the sizeable Internet backlash hit EasyDNS. Despite that, EasyDNS (upon request of a customer who was setting up new WikiLeaks hosting) began providing WikiLeaks with DNS service on \"two 'battle hardened' servers\" to protect the quality of service for its other customers.\n\nWikiLeaks restructured its process for contributions after its first document leaks did not gain much attention. Assange stated this was part of an attempt to take the voluntary effort typically seen in \"Wiki\" projects, and \"redirect it to ... material that has real potential for change\". Some sympathisers were unhappy when WikiLeaks ended a community-based wiki format in favour of a more centralised organisation. The \"about\" page originally read:\n\nHowever, WikiLeaks established an editorial policy that accepted only documents that were \"of political, diplomatic, historical or ethical interest\" (and excluded \"material that is already publicly available\"). This coincided with early criticism that having no editorial policy would drive out good material with spam and promote \"automated or indiscriminate publication of confidential records\". The original FAQ is no longer in effect, and no one can post or edit documents on WikiLeaks. Now, submissions to WikiLeaks are reviewed by anonymous WikiLeaks reviewers, and documents that do not meet the editorial criteria are rejected. By 2008, the revised FAQ stated: \"Anybody can post comments to it. [ ... ] Users can publicly discuss documents and analyse their credibility and veracity.\" After the 2010 reorganisation, posting new comments on leaks was no longer possible.\n\nThe legal status of WikiLeaks is complex. Assange considers WikiLeaks a protection intermediary. Rather than leaking directly to the press, and fearing exposure and retribution, whistleblowers can leak to WikiLeaks, which then leaks to the press for them. Its servers are located throughout Europe and are accessible from any uncensored web connection. The group located its headquarters in Sweden because it has one of the world's strongest laws to protect confidential source-journalist relationships. WikiLeaks has stated it does not solicit any information. However, Assange used his speech during the Hack in the Box conference in Malaysia to ask the crowd of hackers and security researchers to help find documents on its \"Most Wanted Leaks of 2009\" list.\n\nThe US Justice Department began a criminal investigation of WikiLeaks and Julian Assange soon after the leak of diplomatic cables began. Attorney General Eric Holder affirmed the investigation was \"not saber-rattling\", but was \"an active, ongoing criminal investigation\". \"The Washington Post\" reported that the department was considering charges under the Espionage Act of 1917, an action which former prosecutors characterised as \"difficult\" because of First Amendment protections for the press. Several Supreme Court cases (e.g. \"Bartnicki v. Vopper\") have established previously that the American Constitution protects the re-publication of illegally gained information provided the publishers did not themselves violate any laws in acquiring it. Federal prosecutors have also considered prosecuting Assange for trafficking in stolen government property, but since the diplomatic cables are intellectual rather than physical property, that method is also difficult. Any prosecution of Assange would require extraditing him to the United States, a procedure made more complicated and potentially delayed by any preceding extradition to Sweden. One of Assange's lawyers, however, says they are fighting extradition to Sweden because it might result in his extradition to the United States. Assange's attorney, Mark Stephens, has \"heard from Swedish authorities there has been a secretly empanelled grand jury in Alexandria [Virginia]\" meeting to consider criminal charges for the WikiLeaks case.\n\nIn Australia, the government and the Australian Federal Police have not stated what Australian laws may have been violated by WikiLeaks, but then Prime Minister Julia Gillard has stated that the foundation of WikiLeaks and the stealing of classified documents from the United States administration is illegal in foreign countries. Gillard later clarified her statement as referring to \"the original theft of the material by a junior U.S. serviceman rather than any action by Mr Assange.\" Spencer Zifcak, president of Liberty Victoria, an Australian civil liberties group, notes that without a charge or a trial completed, it is inappropriate to state that WikiLeaks is guilty of illegal activities.\n\nOn threats by various governments towards Julian Assange, legal expert Ben Saul argues that Assange is the target of a global smear campaign to demonise him as a criminal or as a terrorist, without any legal basis. The US Center for Constitutional Rights has issued a statement emphasising its alarm at the \"multiple examples of legal overreach and irregularities\" in his arrest.\n\nIn a UK Supreme Court judgement given on 8 February 2018, the court unanimously decided that a document leaked through WikiLeaks \"could be admitted into evidence\".\n\nThe appeal that led to this ruling centred on a US government cable provided by Chelsea Manning and published by WikiLeaks. The Chagos islanders argued that the document showed the UK's motive for setting up a marine park on their territory was improper, but it had been excluded from proceedings earlier in the case.\n\nIn an \"important test of Vienna Convention in relation to Wikileaks documents\" The Court ruled that \"the cable should have been admitted into evidence before the Administrative Court\", addressing the main issue. During this decision, the leaked document was said to not meet the criteria necessary to help the Chagos Refugee Group recover their homeland.\n\nWikiLeaks is a self-described not-for-profit organisation, funded largely by volunteers, and it is dependent on public donations. Its main financing methods include conventional bank transfers and online payment systems. According to Assange, WikiLeaks' lawyers often work pro bono. Assange has said that in some cases legal aid has been donated by media organisations such as the Associated Press, the \"Los Angeles Times\", and the National Newspaper Publishers Association. Assange said in 2010 that WikiLeaks' only revenue consists of donations, but it has considered other options including auctioning early access to documents. During September 2011, WikiLeaks began auctioning items on eBay to raise funds, and Assange told an audience at Sydney's Festival of Dangerous Ideas that the organisation might not be able to survive.\n\nOn 24 December 2009, WikiLeaks announced that it was experiencing a shortage of funds and suspended all access to its website except for a form to submit new material. Material that was previously published was no longer available, although some could still be accessed on unofficial mirror websites. WikiLeaks stated on its website that it would resume full operation once the operational costs were paid. WikiLeaks saw this as a kind of work stoppage \"to ensure that everyone who is involved stops normal work and actually spends time raising revenue\". While the organisation initially planned for funds to be secured by 6 January 2010, it was not until 3 February 2010 that WikiLeaks announced that its minimum fundraising goal had been achieved.\n\nThe Wau Holland Foundation helps to process donations to WikiLeaks. In July 2010, the Foundation stated that WikiLeaks was not receiving any money for personnel costs, only for hardware, travelling and bandwidth. An article in TechEye stated: \n\nHowever, in December 2010 the Wau Holland Foundation stated that 4 permanent employees, including Julian Assange, had begun to receive salaries.\n\nIn 2010, Assange said the organisation was registered as a library in Australia, a foundation in France, and a newspaper in Sweden, and that it also used two United States-based non-profit 501c3 organisations for funding purposes.\n\nOn 22 January 2010, the Internet payment intermediary PayPal suspended WikiLeaks' donation account and froze its assets. WikiLeaks said that this had happened before, and was done for \"no obvious reason\". The account was restored on 25 January 2010. On 18 May 2010, WikiLeaks announced that its website and archive were operational again.\n\nIn June 2010, WikiLeaks was a finalist for a grant of more than half a million dollars from the John S. and James L. Knight Foundation, but did not make the final approval. WikiLeaks commented via Twitter: \"WikiLeaks was highest rated project in the Knight challenge, strongly recommended to the board but gets no funding. Go figure.\" WikiLeaks said that the Knight foundation announced the award to \"'12 Grantees who will impact future of news' – but not WikiLeaks\" and questioned whether Knight foundation was \"really looking for impact\". A spokesman of the Knight Foundation disputed parts of WikiLeaks' statement, saying \"WikiLeaks was not recommended by Knight staff to the board.\" However, he declined to say whether WikiLeaks was the project rated highest by the Knight advisory panel, which consists of non-staffers, among them journalist Jennifer 8. Lee, who has done PR work for WikiLeaks with the press and on social networking websites.\n\nDuring 2010, WikiLeaks received €635,772.73 in PayPal donations, less €30,000 in PayPal fees, and €695,925.46 in bank transfers. €500,988.89 of the sum was received in the month of December, primarily as bank transfers as PayPal suspended payments 4 December. €298,057.38 of the remainder was received in April.\n\nThe Wau Holland Foundation, one of the WikiLeaks' main funding channels, stated that they received more than €900,000 in public donations between October 2009 and December 2010, of which €370,000 has been passed on to WikiLeaks. Hendrik Fulda, vice-president of the Wau Holland Foundation, mentioned that the Foundation had been receiving twice as many donations through PayPal as through normal banks, before PayPal's decision to suspend WikiLeaks' account. He also noted that every new WikiLeaks publication brought \"a wave of support\", and that donations were strongest in the weeks after WikiLeaks started publishing leaked diplomatic cables.\n\nThe Icelandic judiciary decided that Valitor (a company related to Visa and MasterCard) was violating the law when it prevented donation to the site by credit card. A justice ruled that the donations will be allowed to return to the site after 14 days or they would be fined in the amount of US$6,000 a day.\n\nWikiLeaks posted its first document in December 2006, a decision to assassinate government officials signed by Sheikh Hassan Dahir Aweys. In August 2007, the UK newspaper \"The Guardian\" published a story about corruption by the family of the former Kenyan leader Daniel arap Moi based on information provided via WikiLeaks. In November 2007, a March 2003 copy of \"Standard Operating Procedures for Camp Delta\" detailing the protocol of the US Army at the Guantanamo Bay detention camp was released. The document revealed that some prisoners were off-limits to the International Committee of the Red Cross, something that the US military had in the past denied repeatedly. In February 2008, WikiLeaks released allegations of illegal activities at the Cayman Islands branch of the Swiss Bank Julius Baer, which resulted in the bank suing WikiLeaks and obtaining an injunction which temporarily suspended the operation of wikileaks.org. The California judge had the service provider of WikiLeaks block the site's domain (wikileaks.org) on 18 February 2008, although the bank only wanted the documents to be removed but WikiLeaks had failed to name a contact. The website was instantly mirrored by supporters, and later that month the judge overturned his previous decision citing First Amendment concerns and questions about legal jurisdiction. In March 2008, WikiLeaks published what they referred to as \"the collected secret 'bibles' of Scientology\", and three days later received letters threatening to sue them for breach of copyright. In September 2008, during the 2008 United States presidential election campaigns, the contents of a Yahoo account belonging to Sarah Palin (the running mate of Republican presidential nominee John McCain) were posted on WikiLeaks after being hacked into by members of a group known as Anonymous. In November 2008, the membership list of the far-right British National Party was posted to WikiLeaks, after appearing briefly on a weblog. A year later, in October 2009, another list of BNP members was leaked.\n\nIn January 2009, WikiLeaks released 86 telephone intercept recordings of Peruvian politicians and businessmen involved in the 2008 Peru oil scandal. During February, WikiLeaks released 6,780 Congressional Research Service reports followed in March by a list of contributors to the Norm Coleman senatorial campaign and a set of documents belonging to Barclays Bank that had been ordered removed from the website of \"The Guardian\". In July, it released a report relating to a serious nuclear accident that had occurred at the Iranian Natanz nuclear facility in 2009. Later media reports have suggested that the accident was related to the Stuxnet computer worm. In September, internal documents from Kaupthing Bank were leaked, from shortly before the collapse of Iceland's banking sector, which caused the 2008–2012 Icelandic financial crisis. The document shows that suspiciously large sums of money were loaned to various owners of the bank, and large debts written off. In October, Joint Services Protocol 440, a British document advising the security services on how to avoid documents being leaked, was published by WikiLeaks. Later that month, it announced that a super-injunction was being used by the commodities company Trafigura to stop \"The Guardian\" (London) from reporting on a leaked internal document regarding a toxic dumping incident in Côte d'Ivoire. In November, it hosted copies of e-mail correspondence between climate scientists, although they were not leaked originally to WikiLeaks. It also released 570,000 intercepts of pager messages sent on the day of the 11 September attacks. During 2008 and 2009, WikiLeaks published the alleged lists of forbidden or illegal web addresses for Australia, Denmark and Thailand. These were originally created to prevent access to child pornography and terrorism, but the leaks revealed that other sites featuring unrelated subjects were also listed.\n\nIn mid-February 2010, WikiLeaks received a leaked diplomatic cable from the United States Embassy in Reykjavik relating to the Icesave scandal, which they published on 18 February. The cable, known as Reykjavik 13, was the first of the classified documents WikiLeaks published among those allegedly provided to them by United States Army Private Chelsea Manning (then known as Bradley). In March 2010, WikiLeaks released a secret 32-page US Department of Defense Counterintelligence Analysis Report written in March 2008 discussing the leaking of material by WikiLeaks and how it could be deterred. In April, a classified video of the 12 July 2007 Baghdad airstrike was released, showing two Reuters employees being fired at, after the pilots mistakenly thought the men were carrying weapons, which were in fact cameras. After the mistaken killing, the video shows US forces firing on a family van that stopped to pick up the bodies. In the week after the release, \"wikileaks\" was the search term with the most significant growth worldwide during the last seven days as measured by Google Insights. In June 2010, Manning was arrested after alleged chat logs were given to United States authorities by former hacker Adrian Lamo, in whom she had confided. Manning reportedly told Lamo she had leaked the \"Collateral Murder\" video, in addition to a video of the Granai airstrike and about 260,000 diplomatic cables, to WikiLeaks.\n\nIn July, WikiLeaks released 92,000 documents related to the war in Afghanistan between 2004 and the end of 2009 to the publications \"The Guardian\", \"The New York Times\" and \"Der Spiegel\". The documents detail individual incidents including \"friendly fire\" and civilian casualties. About 15,000 of the 92,000 documents have not yet been released by WikiLeaks, as the group is currently reviewing the documents to remove some of the sources of the information. WikiLeaks asked the Pentagon and human-rights groups to help remove names from the documents to reduce the potential harm caused by their release, but did not receive assistance. After the Love Parade stampede in Duisburg, Germany, on 24 July 2010, a local resident published internal documents of the city administration regarding the planning of Love Parade. The city government reacted by securing a court order on 16 August forcing the removal of the documents from the website on which it was hosted. On 20 August 2010, WikiLeaks released a publication entitled \"Loveparade 2010 Duisburg planning documents, 2007–2010\", which comprised 43 internal documents regarding the Love Parade 2010. After the leak of information concerning the Afghan War, in October 2010, around 400,000 documents relating to the Iraq War were released. The BBC quoted the US Department of Defense referring to the Iraq War Logs as \"the largest leak of classified documents in its history\". Media coverage of the leaked documents emphasised claims that the US government had ignored reports of torture by the Iraqi authorities during the period after the 2003 war.\n\nOn 29 July 2010 WikiLeaks added an \"Insurance file\" to the Afghan War Diary page. The file is AES encrypted. There has been speculation that it was intended to serve as insurance in case the WikiLeaks website or its spokesman Julian Assange are incapacitated, upon which the passphrase could be published. After the first few days' release of the US diplomatic cables starting 28 November 2010, the US television broadcasting company CBS predicted that \"If anything happens to Assange or the website, a key will go out to unlock the files. There would then be no way to stop the information from spreading like wildfire because so many people already have copies.\" CBS correspondent Declan McCullagh stated, \"What most folks are speculating is that the insurance file contains unreleased information that would be especially embarrassing to the US government if it were released.\"\n\nOn 28 November 2010, WikiLeaks and five major newspapers from Spain (\"El País\"), France (\"Le Monde\"), Germany (\"Der Spiegel\"), the United Kingdom (\"The Guardian\"), and the United States (\"The New York Times\") started simultaneously to publish the first 220 of 251,287 leaked documents labelled confidential – but not top-secret – and dated from 28 December 1966 to 28 February 2010. WikiLeaks planned to release the entirety of the cables in phases over several months.\nThe contents of the diplomatic cables include numerous unguarded comments and revelations regarding: critiques and praises about the host countries of various United States embassies; political manoeuvring regarding climate change; discussion and resolutions towards ending ongoing tension in the Middle East; efforts and resistance towards nuclear disarmament; actions in the War on Terror; assessments of other threats around the world; dealings between various countries; United States intelligence and counterintelligence efforts; and other diplomatic actions. Reactions to the United States diplomatic cables leak varied. On 14 December 2010 the United States Department of Justice issued a subpoena directing Twitter to provide information for accounts registered to or associated with WikiLeaks. Twitter decided to notify its users. The overthrow of the presidency in Tunisia of 2011 has been attributed partly to reaction against the corruption revealed by leaked cables.\n\nOn 1 September 2011, it became public that an encrypted version of WikiLeaks' huge archive of unredacted US State Department cables had been available via BitTorrent for months and that the decryption key (similar to a password) was available to those who knew where to find it. \"Guardian\" newspaper editor David Leigh had just published the decryption key in his book, so the files were now publicly available to anyone. Rather than let malicious actors publish selected data, WikiLeaks decided to publish the entire, unredacted archive in searchable form on its website.\n\nIn late April 2011, files related to the Guantanamo prison were released. In December 2011, WikiLeaks started to release the \"Spy Files\". On 27 February 2012, WikiLeaks began publishing more than five million emails from the Texas-headquartered \"global intelligence\" company Stratfor. On 5 July 2012, WikiLeaks began publishing the Syria Files (emails from Syrian political figures 2006–2012). On 25 October 2012, WikiLeaks began publishing The Detainee Policies, files covering the rules and procedures for detainees in US military custody. In April 2013 WikiLeaks published more than 1.7 million US diplomatic and intelligence documents from the 1970s, including the Kissinger cables.\nIn 2013, the organisation assisted Edward Snowden (who is responsible for the 2013 mass surveillance disclosures) in leaving Hong Kong. Sarah Harrison, a WikiLeaks activist, accompanied Snowden on the flight. Scott Shane of \"The New York Times\" stated that the WikiLeaks involvement \"shows that despite its shoestring staff, limited fund-raising from a boycott by major financial firms, and defections prompted by Mr. Assange's personal troubles and abrasive style, it remains a force to be reckoned with on the global stage.\"\n\nIn September 2013, WikiLeaks published \"Spy Files 3\", 250 documents from more than 90 surveillance companies. On 13 November 2013, a draft of the Trans-Pacific Partnership's Intellectual Property Rights chapter was published by WikiLeaks. On 10 June 2015, WikiLeaks published the draft on the Trans-Pacific Partnership's Transparency for Healthcare Annex, along with each country's negotiating position. On 19 June 2015 WikiLeaks began publishing The Saudi Cables: more than half a million cables and other documents from the Saudi Foreign Ministry that contain secret communications from various Saudi Embassies around the world.\n\nOn 23 June 2015, WikiLeaks published documents under the name of \"Espionnage Élysée\", which showed that NSA spied on the French government, including but not limited to then President Francois Hollande and his predecessors Nicolas Sarkozy and Jacques Chirac. On 29 June 2015, WikiLeaks published more NSA top secrets intercepts regarding France, detailing an economic espionage against French companies and associations. In July 2015, WikiLeaks published documents which showed that the NSA had tapped the telephones of many German federal ministries, including that of the Chancellor Angela Merkel, for years since the 1990s. On 4 July 2015, WikiLeaks published documents which showed that 29 Brazilian government numbers were selected for secret espionage by the NSA. Among the targets there were also the President Dilma Rousseff, many assistants and advisors, her presidential jet and other key figures in the Brazilian government.\n\nOn 29 July 2015, WikiLeaks published a top secret letter from the Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP) Ministerial Meeting in December 2013 which illustrated the position of negotiating countries on \"state-owned enterprises\" (SOEs). On 31 July 2015, WikiLeaks published secret intercepts and the related target list showing that the NSA spied on Japanese government, including the Cabinet and Japanese companies such as Mitsubishi and Mitsui. The documents revealed that United States espionage against Japan concerned broad sections of communications about the US-Japan diplomatic relationship and Japan's position on climate change issues, other than an extensive monitoring of the Japanese economy. On 21 October 2015 WikiLeaks published some of John O. Brennan's emails, including a draft security clearance application which contained personal information.\n\nOn 4 July 2016, WikiLeaks tweeted a link to a trove of emails sent or received by then-US Secretary of State Hillary Clinton and released under the Freedom of Information Act. The link contained 1258 emails sent from Clinton's personal mail server which were selected in terms of their relevance to the Iraq War and were apparently timed to precede the release of the UK government's Iraq Inquiry report.\n\nOn 19 July 2016, in response to the Turkish government's purges that followed the coup attempt, WikiLeaks released 294,548 emails from Turkey's ruling Justice and Development party (AKP). According to WikiLeaks, the material, which they claim to be the first batch from the \"AKP Emails\", was obtained a week before the attempted coup in the country and \"is not connected, in any way, to the elements behind the attempted coup, or to a rival political party or state\". After WikiLeaks announced that they would release the emails, the organisation stayed for over 24 hours under a \"sustained attack\". Following the leak, the Turkish government ordered the site to be blocked nationwide. WikiLeaks had also tweeted a link to a database which contained sensitive information, such as the Turkish Identification Number, of approximately 50 million Turkish citizens, including nearly every female voter in Turkey. This information first appeared online in April of the same year and was not in the files uploaded by WikiLeaks, but in files archived by Michael Best, who then removed it when the personal data was discovered.\n\nOn 22 July 2016, WikiLeaks released approximately 20,000 emails and 8,000 files sent from or received by Democratic National Committee (DNC) personnel. Some of the emails contained personal information of donors, including home addresses and Social Security numbers. Other emails appeared to criticise Bernie Sanders and showed apparent favouritism towards Clinton.\n\nOn 7 October 2016, WikiLeaks started releasing series of emails and documents sent from or received by Hillary Clinton campaign manager John Podesta, including Hillary Clinton's paid speeches to banks. According to a spokesman for the Clinton campaign, \"By dribbling these out every day WikiLeaks is proving they are nothing but a propaganda arm of the Kremlin with a political agenda doing Vladimir Putin's dirty work to help elect Donald Trump.\" \"The New York Times\" reported that when asked, president Vladimir Putin replied that Russia was being falsely accused. \"The hysteria is merely caused by the fact that somebody needs to divert the attention of the American people from the essence of what was exposed by the hackers.\"\n\nOn 17 October 2016 WikiLeaks announced that a \"state party\" had severed the Internet connection of Julian Assange at the Ecuadorian embassy. WikiLeaks blamed United States Secretary of State John Kerry of pressuring the Ecuadorian government in severing Assange's Internet, an accusation which the United States State Department denied. The Ecuadorian government stated that it had \"temporarily\" severed Assange's Internet connection because of WikiLeaks' release of documents \"impacting on the U.S. election campaign,\" although it also stated that this was not meant to prevent WikiLeaks from operating.\n\nOn 16 February 2017, WikiLeaks released a purported report on CIA espionage orders (marked as NOFORN) for the 2012 French presidential election. The order called for details of party funding, internal rivalries and future attitudes toward the United States. The Associated Press noted that \"the orders seemed to represent standard intelligence-gathering.\"\n\nOn 7 March 2017, WikiLeaks started publishing content code-named \"Vault 7\". In a series of tweets and a Facebook Live + Periscope press conference, WikiLeaks announced these documents contain CIA internal documentation of their \"massive arsenal\" of hacking tools including malware, viruses trojects, weaponised \"zero day\" exploits and remote control systems to name a few. Leaked documents, dated from 2013–2016, detail the capabilities of the United States Central Intelligence Agency (CIA) to perform electronic surveillance and cyber warfare, such as the ability to compromise cars, smart TVs, web browsers (including Google Chrome, Microsoft Edge, Mozilla Firefox, and Opera Software ASA), and the operating systems of most smartphones (including Apple's iOS and Google's Android), as well as other operating systems such as Microsoft Windows, macOS, and Linux.\n\nOn 5 May 2017, WikiLeaks posted links to e-mails purported to be from Emmanuel Macron's campaign in the French 2017 presidential election. The documents were first relayed on the 4chan forum and by pro-Trump Twitter accounts, and then by WikiLeaks, who indicated they did not author the leaks. Experts have asserted that the WikiLeaks Twitter account played a key role in publicising the leaks through the hashtag #MacronLeaks just some three-and-a-half hours after the first tweet with hashtag appeared. The campaign stated that false documents were mixed in with real ones, and that \"the ambition of the authors of this leak is obviously to harm the movement En Marche! in the final hours before the second round of the French presidential election\". France's Electoral Commission described the action as a \"massive and coordinated piracy action\". France's Electoral Commission urged journalists not to report on the contents of the leaks, but to heed \"the sense of responsibility they must demonstrate, as at stake are the free expression of voters and the sincerity of the election\". Cybersecurity experts initially believed that groups linked to Russia were involved in this attack. The Kremlin denied any involvement. The head of the French cyber-security agency, ANSSI, later said that they did not have evidence connecting the hack with Russia, saying that the attack was so simple, that \"we can imagine that it was a person who did this alone. They could be in any country.\"\n\nIn September 2017, WikiLeaks released \"Spy Files Russia,\" revealing \"how a St. Petersburg-based technology company called Peter-Service helped state entities gather detailed data on Russian cellphone users, part of a national system of online surveillance called System for Operative Investigative Activities (SORM).\"\n\nIn January 2011, Rudolf Elmer, a former Swiss banker, passed data containing account details of 2,000 prominent people to Assange, who stated that the information will be vetted before being made publicly available at a later date. In May 2010, WikiLeaks said it had video footage of a massacre of civilians in Afghanistan by the US military which they were preparing to release. In an interview with Chris Anderson on 19 July 2010, Assange showed a document WikiLeaks had on an Albanian oil-well blowout, and said they also had material from inside British Petroleum, and that they were \"getting enormous quantity of whistle-blower disclosures of a very high calibre\" but added that they had not been able to verify and release the material because they did not have enough volunteer journalists. In December 2010, Assange's lawyer, Mark Stephens, told \"The Andrew Marr Show\" on BBC Television that WikiLeaks had information it considered to be a \"thermo-nuclear device\" which it would release if the organisation needs to defend itself against the authorities.\n\nIn a 2009 interview by the magazine \"Computerworld\", Assange claimed to be in possession of \"5GB from Bank of America\". In 2010, he told \"Forbes\" magazine that WikiLeaks was planning another \"megaleak\" early in 2011, from the private sector, involving \"a big U.S. bank\" and revealing an \"ecosystem of corruption\". Bank of America's stock price decreased by 3%, apparently as a result of this announcement. Assange commented on the possible effect of the release that \"it could take down a bank or two\". In August 2011, Reuters announced that Daniel Domscheit-Berg had destroyed approximately 5GB of data cache from Bank of America, that Assange had under his control.\n\nIn October 2010, Assange told a major Moscow newspaper that \"The Kremlin had better brace itself for a coming wave of WikiLeaks disclosures about Russia\". Assange later clarified: \"we have material on many businesses and governments, including in Russia. It's not right to say there's going to be a particular focus on Russia\".\n\nWikiLeaks has contended that it has never released a misattributed document and that documents are assessed before release. In response to concerns about the possibility of misleading or fraudulent leaks, WikiLeaks has stated that misleading leaks \"are already well-placed in the mainstream media. WikiLeaks is of no additional assistance.\" The FAQ states that: \"The simplest and most effective countermeasure is a worldwide community of informed users and editors who can scrutinise and discuss leaked documents.\" According to statements by Assange in 2010, submitted documents are vetted by a group of five reviewers, with expertise in different topics such as language or programming, who also investigate the background of the leaker if his or her identity is known. In that group, Assange has the final decision about the assessment of a document.\n\nColumnist Eric Zorn wrote in 2016 that \"it's possible, even likely, that every stolen email WikiLeaks has posted has been authentic.\" (Writer Glenn Greenwald goes further, asserting that WikiLeaks has a \"perfect, long-standing record of only publishing authentic documents.\") However, cybersecurity experts agree that it is trivially easy for a person to fabricate an email or alter it, as by changing headers and metadata. Some of the more recent releases, such as many of the emails contained in the Podesta emails, contain DKIM headers. This allows them to be verified as genuine to some degree of certainty.\n\nIn July 2016, the Aspen Institute's Homeland Security Group, a bipartisan counterterrorism organisation, warned that hackers who stole authentic data might \"salt the files they release with plausible forgeries.\" Russian intelligence agencies have frequently used disinformation tactics, \"which means carefully faked emails might be included in the WikiLeaks dumps. After all, the best way to make false information believable is to mix it in with true information.\"\n\nWikiLeaks has promoted conspiracy theories about the murder of Seth Rich. Unfounded conspiracy theories, spread by some right-wing figures and media outlets, hold that Rich was the source of leaked emails and was killed for working with WikiLeaks. WikiLeaks fuelled the conspiracy theories by offering a reward of $20,000 for information leading to the capture of Rich's killer and hinting that Rich may have been the source of the leaked emails. No evidence supports the claim that Rich was the source of the leaks.\n\nThe \"Guardian\" wrote that WikiLeaks, along with individuals and groups on the hard right, had been involved in the \"ruthless exploitation of [Rich's] death for political purposes\". The executive director of the Sunlight Foundation, an organization that advocates for open government, was critical of WikiLeaks' fueling of conspiracy theories surrounding the murder of Seth Rich: \"If they feel like they have a link to the staffer's death, they should say it and be responsible about it. The insinuations, to me, are just disgusting.\"\n\nWikiLeaks has popularized conspiracies about the Democratic Party and Hillary Clinton, such as tweeting an article which suggested Clinton campaign chairperson John Podesta engaged in satanic rituals (which was later revealed to be false), implying that the Democratic Party had Seth Rich killed, suggesting that Clinton wore earpieces to debates and interviews, claiming that Hillary Clinton wanted to drone strike Assange, promoting conspiracy theories about Clinton's health, and promoting a conspiracy theory from a Donald Trump–related Internet community tying the Clinton campaign to child kidnapper Laura Silsby.\n\nShort of simply disclosing information in the public interest, WikiLeaks has been accused of purposely targeting certain states and people, and presenting its disclosures in misleading and conspiratorial ways to harm those people. Writing in 2012, \"Foreign Policy\"'s Joshua Keating noted that \"nearly all its major operations have targeted the U.S. government or American corporations.\" In a 2017 speech addressing the Center for Strategic and International Studies, CIA Director Mike Pompeo referred to WikiLeaks as \"a non-state hostile intelligence service\" and described founder Julian Assange as a narcissist, fraud, and coward.\n\nAssange wrote on WikiLeaks in February 2016: \"I have had years of experience in dealing with Hillary Clinton and have read thousands of her cables. Hillary lacks judgement and will push the United States into endless, stupid wars which spread terrorism. ...  she certainly should not become president of the United States.\" In July 2017, during an interview by Amy Goodman, Julian Assange said that choosing between Hillary Clinton and Donald Trump is like choosing between cholera or gonorrhea. \"Personally, I would prefer neither.\" WikiLeaks editor, Sarah Harrison, has stated that the site is not choosing which damaging publications to release, rather releasing information that is available to them.\n\nIn conversations that were leaked in February 2018, WikiLeaks expressed a preference for a Republican victory in the 2016 election.\n\nHaving released information that exposed the inner working of a broad range of organisations and politicians, WikiLeaks started by 2016 to focus almost exclusively on Democratic presidential candidate Hillary Clinton. In the 2016 US presidential election, WikiLeaks only exposed material damaging to the Democratic National Committee and Hillary Clinton. WikiLeaks even rejected the opportunity to publish unrelated leaks, because it dedicated all its resources to Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party. According to \"The New York Times\", WikiLeaks timed one of its large leaks so that it would happen on the eve of the Democratic Convention. The \"Washington Post\" noted that the leaks came at an important sensitive moment in the Clinton campaign, as she was preparing to announce her vice-presidential pick and unite the party behind her. The Sunlight Foundation, an organisation that advocates for open government, said that such actions meant that WikiLeaks was no longer striving to be transparent but rather sought to achieve political goals: \"It's become something else. It's not striving for objectivity. It's more careless. When they publish information it appears to be in service of some specific goal, of retribution, at the expense of the individual.\"\n\nWikiLeaks explained its actions in a 2017 statement to \"Foreign Policy\": \"WikiLeaks schedules publications to maximize readership and reader engagement. During distracting media events such as the Olympics or a high profile election, unrelated publications are sometimes delayed until the distraction passes but never are rejected for this reason.\" On 7 October 2016, an hour after the media had begun to dedicate wall-to-wall coverage of the revelation that Trump had bragged on video about sexually harassing women, WikiLeaks began to release emails hacked from the personal account of Clinton campaign chairman John Podesta. CNN notes that due to extensive coverage of the Trump tapes, the leaks were an \"afterthought\" in news coverage. Podesta suggested that the emails were timed to deflect attention from the Trump tapes.\n\nIn 2010, Donald Trump called WikiLeaks \"disgraceful\" and suggested that the \"death penalty\" should be a punishment for WikiLeaks' releases of information. Following the dump of e-mails hacked from the Hillary Clinton campaign, Donald Trump told voters, \"I love WikiLeaks!\" Trump made many references to WikiLeaks during the course of the campaign; by one estimate, he referenced disclosures by WikiLeaks over 160 times in speeches during the last 30 days of the campaign.\n\nIn November 2017, it was revealed that the WikiLeaks Twitter account corresponded with Donald Trump Jr. during the 2016 presidential election. The correspondence shows how WikiLeaks actively solicited the co-operation of Trump Jr., a campaign surrogate and advisor in the campaign of his father. WikiLeaks urged the Trump campaign to reject the results of the 2016 presidential election at a time when it looked as if the Trump campaign would lose. WikiLeaks asked Trump Jr. to share a false claim by Assange that Hillary Clinton had wanted to attack him with drones. WikiLeaks also shared a link to a site that would help people to search through WikiLeaks documents. Trump Jr. shared both. After the election, WikiLeaks also requested that the president-elect push Australia to appoint Assange as ambassador to the US. After \"The New York Times\" published a fragment of Donald Trump's tax returns for one year, WikiLeaks asked Trump Jr. for one or more of his father's tax returns, explaining that it would be in his father's best interest because it would \"dramatically improve the perception of our impartiality\" and not come \"through the most biased source (e.g. NYT/MSNBC).\" WikiLeaks also asked Trump Jr. to leak his own e-mails to them days after \"The New York Times\" broke a story about e-mail correspondence between Trump Jr. and a Kremlin-affiliated lawyer; WikiLeaks said that it would be \"beautifully confounding\" for them to publish the e-mails and that it would deprive other news outlets from putting a negative spin on the correspondence. Trump Jr. provided this correspondence to congressional investigators looking into Russian interference in the 2016 election.\n\nIn August 2016, after WikiLeaks published thousands of DNC emails, it was claimed that Russian intelligence had hacked the e-mails and leaked them to WikiLeaks. At the time, DNC officials made such claims, along with a number of cybersecurity experts and cybersecurity firms. In October 2016, the US intelligence community announced that it was \"confident that the Russian Government directed the recent compromises of e-mails from U.S. persons and institutions, including from U.S. political organizations\". The US intelligence agencies said that the hacks were consistent with the methods of Russian-directed efforts, and that people high up within the Kremlin were likely involved. On 14 October 2016, CNN reported that \"there is mounting evidence that the Russian government is supplying WikiLeaks with hacked emails pertaining to the U.S. presidential election.\" WikiLeaks has denied any connection to or co-operation with Russia. President Putin has strongly denied any Russian involvement in the election.\n\nIn September 2016, the German weekly magazine \"Focus\" reported that according to a confidential German government dossier, WikiLeaks had long since been infiltrated by Russian agents aiming to discredit NATO governments. The magazine added that French and British intelligence services had come to the same conclusion and said Russian President Vladimir Putin and Prime Minister Dmitry Medvedev receive details about what WikiLeaks publishes before publication. The \"Focus\" report followed a \"New York Times\" story that suggested that WikiLeaks may be a laundering machine for compromising material about Western countries gathered by Russian spies.\n\nOn 10 December 2016, several news outlets, including \"The Guardian\" and \"The Washington Post\", reported that the Central Intelligence Agency concluded that Russia intelligence operatives provided materials to WikiLeaks in an effort to help Donald Trump's election bid. \"The Washington Post\" article stated: \"The CIA has concluded in a secret assessment that Russia intervened in the 2016 election to help Donald Trump win the presidency, rather than just to undermine confidence in the U.S. electoral system, according to officials briefed on the matter.\" \"The Guardian\" article reported, \"individuals linked to the Russian government had provided WikiLeaks with thousands of confidential emails stolen from the Democratic National Committee (DNC) and others.\" WikiLeaks has frequently been criticised for its absence of whistleblowing on or criticism of Russia. \"The Guardian\" notes that journalists are killed frequently in Russia, and notes that \"Freedom House\" has ranked Russian press freedom as \"not free ... The main national news agenda is firmly controlled by the Kremlin. The government sets editorial policy at state-owned television stations, which dominate the media landscape and generate propagandistic content.\n\nIn April 2016, WikiLeaks tweeted criticism of the Panama Papers, which had among other things revealed Russian businesses and individuals linked with offshore ties (Vladimir Putin's associates had as much as $2 billion in offshore accounts). The WikiLeaks Twitter account tweeted, \"#PanamaPapers Putin attack was produced by OCCRP which targets Russia & former USSR and was funded by USAID and [George] Soros\". Putin would later go on to dismiss the Panama Papers by citing WikiLeaks: \"WikiLeaks has showed us that official people and official organs of the U.S. are behind this.\" According to \"The New York Times\", both Assange claims are substance-free: \"there is no evidence suggesting that the United States government had a role in releasing the Panama Papers.\" Assange also falsely asserted that the Panama Papers gave Western figures a free pass, when the leaks in fact reported on a number of high-profile Western politicians, including UK Prime Minister David Cameron.\n\nIn 2012 when WikiLeaks began to run out of funds, Assange began to host a television show on Russia Today, Russia's state-owned news network. Assange has never disclosed how much he or WikiLeaks were paid for his tv-show.\n\nAfter President Trump's National Security Advisor Michael T. Flynn resigned in February 2017 due to reports over his communications with Russian officials and subsequent lies over the content and nature of those communications, WikiLeaks tweeted that Flynn resigned \"after destabilization campaign by U.S. spies, Democrats, press.\"\n\nIn April 2017, the WikiLeaks Twitter account suggested that the Khan Shaykhun chemical attack, which international human rights organisations and governments of the United States, United Kingdom, Turkey, Saudi Arabia, France, and Israel attributed to the Syrian government, was a false flag attack. WikiLeaks stated that \"while western establishment media beat the drum for more war in Syria the matter is far from clear\", and shared a video by a Syrian activist who claimed that Islamist extremists were probably behind the chemical attack, not the Syrian government.\n\nIn May 2017, cybersecurity experts stated that they believed that groups affiliated with the Russian government were involved in the hacking and leaking of e-mails associated with the Emmanuel Macron campaign; these e-mails were published on Pastebin but heavily promoted by WikiLeaks social media channels.\n\nIn April 2017, CIA Director Mike Pompeo stated: \"It is time to call out WikiLeaks for what it really is – a non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia.\" Pompeo said that the US Intelligence Community had concluded that Russia's \"primary propaganda outlet,\" RT had \"actively collaborated\" with WikiLeaks.\n\nIn August 2017, \"Foreign Policy\" reported that WikiLeaks had in the summer of 2016 turned down a large cache of documents containing information damaging to the Russian government. WikiLeaks justified this by saying \"As far as we recall these are already public ... WikiLeaks rejects all information that it cannot verify. WikiLeaks rejects submissions that have already been published elsewhere\". Whereas news outlets had reported on some contents of the leaks in 2014, the information that news outlets reported on was less than half of the data that was made available to WikiLeaks in the summer of 2016.\n\nIn October 2017, it was revealed that Cambridge Analytica, a company working on behalf of the Trump presidential campaign, had contacted WikiLeaks about missing Hillary Clinton e-mails and the possibility of creating a searchable database for the campaign to use. After this was reported, Assange confirmed that WikiLeaks had been approached by Cambridge Analytica but had rejected the approach. WikiLeaks did not disclose what the subject of Cambridge Analytica's approach was.\n\nWikiLeaks has been accused of anti-semitism. The WikiLeaks Twitter account tweeted anti-semitic jibes. The organisation has called out Jewish \"lobbies\" and claimed that a \"Jewish conspiracy\" is attempting to discredit the organisation. In July 2016, WikiLeaks suggested that triple parentheses, or (((echoes))) – a tool used by neo-Nazis to identify Jews on Twitter, appropriated by Jews across the Twittersphere – had been used as a way for \"establishment climbers\" to identify one another. Assange denied making claims of a Jewish conspiracy, stating, \"'Jewish conspiracy' is completely false, in spirit and in word. It is serious and upsetting.\"\n\nIn leaked internal conversations, WikiLeaks described a journalist as a \"rat\" and noted that \"he's Jewish\". WikiLeaks also noted that the journalist had been \"engaged\" in the contesting anti-Semitic jibes on Twitter, and encouraged others to troll the journalist.\n\nWikiLeaks has been criticised for making misleading claims about the contents of its leaks. Media outlets have also been criticised for reporting on WikiLeaks' claims about the CIA leak, which were later retracted.\n\nAccording to University of North Carolina Professor Zeynep Tufekci, this is part of a pattern of behaviour. After the 2016 Turkish coup d'état attempt, WikiLeaks announced that it would release e-mails belonging to Turkey's ruling conservative Justice and Development Party. WikiLeaks released Turkish emails and documents as a response to the Turkish government's crackdown on real or alleged government opponents that followed the coup attempt. When these e-mails were released, however, it \"was nothing but mundane mailing lists of tens of thousands of ordinary people who discussed politics online. Back then, too, the ruse worked: Many Western journalists had hyped these non-leaks.\" According to Tufekci, there are three steps to WikiLeaks' \"disinformation campaigns\": \"The first step is to dump many documents at once — rather than allowing journalists to scrutinise them and absorb their significance before publication. The second step is to sensationalise the material with misleading news releases and tweets. The third step is to sit back and watch as the news media unwittingly promotes the WikiLeaks agenda under the auspices of independent reporting.\"\n\nWikiLeaks has drawn criticism for violating the personal privacy of a multitude of individuals and inadequately curating its content. These critics include transparency advocates, such as Edward Snowden, the Sunlight Foundation and the Federation of American Scientists.\n\nWikiLeaks has published individuals' Social Security numbers, medical information, and credit card numbers. An analysis by the Associated Press found that WikiLeaks had in one of its mass-disclosures published \"the personal information of hundreds of people – including sick children, rape victims and mental health patients\". WikiLeaks has named teenage rape victims, and outed an individual arrested for homosexuality in Saudi Arabia. Some of WikiLeaks' cables \"described patients with psychiatric conditions, seriously ill children or refugees\". An analysis of WikiLeaks' Saudi cables \"turned up more than 500 passport, identity, academic or employment files ... three dozen records pertaining to family issues in the cables – including messages about marriages, divorces, missing children, elopements and custody battles. Many are very personal, like the marital certificates that reveal whether the bride was a virgin. Others deal with Saudis who are deeply in debt, including one man who says his wife stole his money. One divorce document details a male partner's infertility. Others identify the partners of women suffering from sexually transmitted diseases including HIV and Hepatitis C.\" Two individuals named in the DNC leaks were targeted by identity thieves following WikiLeaks' reveal of their Social Security and credit card information. In its leak of DNC e-mails, WikiLeaks revealed the details of an ordinary staffer's suicide attempt and brought attention to it through a tweet.\n\nWikiLeaks' publishing of Sony's hacked e-mails drew criticism for violating the privacy of Sony's employees and for failing to be in the public interest. Michael A. Cohen, a fellow at the Century Foundation, argues that \"data dumps like these represent a threat to our already shrinking zone of privacy.\" He noted that the willingness of WikiLeaks to publish information of this type encourages hacking and cybertheft: \"With ready and willing amplifiers, what's to deter the next cyberthief from stealing a company's database of information and threatening to send it to Wikileaks if a list of demands aren't met?\"\n\nThe Sunlight Foundation, a nonprofit that advocates for open government, has criticised WikiLeaks for inadequate curation of its content and for \"weaponised transparency,\" writing that with the DNC leaks, \"Wikileaks again failed the due diligence review we expect of putatively journalistic entities when it published the personal information of ordinary citizens, including passport and Social Security numbers contained in the hacked emails of Democratic National Committee staff. We are not alone in raising ethical questions about Wikileaks' shift from whistleblower to platform for weaponised transparency. Any organisation that 'doxxes' a public is harming privacy.\" The manner in which WikiLeaks publishes content can have the effect of censoring political enemies: \"Wikileaks' indiscriminate disclosure in this case is perhaps the closest we've seen in reality to the bogeyman projected by enemies to reform — that transparency is just a Trojan Horse for chilling speech and silencing political enemies.\"\n\nIn July 2016, Edward Snowden criticised WikiLeaks for insufficiently curating its content. When Snowden made data public, he did so by working with the \"Washington Post\", the \"Guardian\" and other news organisations, choosing only to make documents public which exposed National Security Agency surveillance programs. Content that compromised national security or exposed sensitive personal information was withheld. WikiLeaks, on the other hand, makes little effort to remove sensitive personal information or withhold content with adverse national security implications. WikiLeaks responded by accusing Snowden of pandering to Democratic presidential nominee Hillary Clinton.\n\nUniversity of North Carolina Professor Zeynep Tufekci has criticised WikiLeaks for exposing sensitive personal information: \"WikiLeaks, for example, gleefully tweeted to its millions of followers that a Clinton Foundation employee had attempted suicide ... Data dumps by WikiLeaks have outed rape victims and gay people in Saudi Arabia, private citizens' emails and personal information in Turkey, and the voice mail messages of Democratic National Committee staff members.\" She argues these data dumps which violate personal privacy without being in the public interest \"threaten our ability to dissent by destroying privacy and unleashing a glut of questionable information that functions, somewhat unexpectedly, as its own form of censorship, rather than as a way to illuminate the maneuverings of the powerful.\"\n\nIn January 2017, the WikiLeaks Task Force, a Twitter account associated with WikiLeaks, proposed the creation of a database to track verified Twitter users, including sensitive personal information on individuals' homes, families and finances. According to the \"Chicago Tribune\", \"the proposal faced a sharp and swift backlash as technologists, journalists and security researchers slammed the idea as a 'sinister' and dangerous abuse of power and privacy.\" Twitter furthermore bans the use of Twitter data for \"surveillance purposes,\" stating \"Posting another person's private and confidential information is a violation of the Twitter rules.\"\n\nWithin WikiLeaks, there has been public disagreement between founder and spokesperson Julian Assange and Daniel Domscheit-Berg, the website's former German representative who was suspended by Assange. Domscheit-Berg announced on 28 September 2010 that he was leaving the organisation due to internal conflicts over management of the website.\nOn 25 September 2010, after being suspended by Assange for \"disloyalty, insubordination and destabilisation\", Daniel Domscheit-Berg, the German spokesman for WikiLeaks, told \"Der Spiegel\" that he was resigning, saying \"WikiLeaks has a structural problem. I no longer want to take responsibility for it, and that's why I am leaving the project.\" Assange accused Domscheit-Berg of leaking information to \"Newsweek\", claiming the WikiLeaks team was unhappy with Assange's management and handling of the Afghan war document releases. Daniel Domscheit-Berg wanted greater transparency in the articles released to the public. Another vision of his was to focus on providing technology that allowed whistle-blowers to protect their identity as well as a more transparent way of communicating with the media, forming new partnerships and involving new people. Domscheit-Berg left with a small group to start OpenLeaks, a new leak organisation and website with a different management and distribution philosophy.\n\nWhile leaving, Daniel Domscheit-Berg copied and then deleted roughly 3,500 unpublished documents from the WikiLeaks servers, including information on the US government's 'no-fly list' and inside information from 20 right-wing organisations, and according to a WikiLeaks statement, 5 gigabytes of data relating to Bank of America, the internal communications of 20 neo-Nazi organisations and US intercept information for \"over a hundred Internet companies\". In Domscheit-Berg's book he wrote: \"To this day, we are waiting for Julian to restore security, so that we can return the material to him, which was on the submission platform.\" In August 2011, Domscheit-Berg claims he permanently deleted the files \"in order to ensure that the sources are not compromised.\"\n\nHerbert Snorrason, a 25-year-old Icelandic university student, resigned after he challenged Assange on his decision to suspend Domscheit-Berg and was bluntly rebuked. Iceland MP Birgitta Jónsdóttir also left WikiLeaks, citing lack of transparency, lack of structure, and poor communication flow in the organisation. According to the periodical \"The Independent\" (London), at least a dozen key supporters of WikiLeaks left the website during 2010.\n\nThose working for WikiLeaks are reportedly required to sign sweeping non-disclosure agreements covering all conversations, conduct, and material, with Assange having sole power over disclosure. The penalty for non-compliance in one such agreement was reportedly £12 million. WikiLeaks has been challenged for this practice, as it seen to be hypocritical for an organisation dedicated to transparency to limit the transparency of its inner workings and limit the accountability of powerful individuals in the organisation.\n\nOn April 20, 2018, the Democratic National Committee filed a multimillion-dollar lawsuit in federal district court in Manhattan against Russia, the Trump campaign, WikiLeaks and Julian Assange, alleging a conspiracy to disrupt the 2016 United States presidential election in Trump's favor. WikiLeaks called the lawsuit a \"publicity stunt\" by the DNC and said, \"As an accurate publisher of newsworthy information @WikiLeaks is constitutionally protected from such suits.\" WikiLeaks added that they were considering filing a countersuit against the DNC.\n\nWikiLeaks has received praise as well as criticism. The organisation won a number of awards in its early years, including \"The Economist's\" New Media Award in 2008 at the Index on Censorship Awards and Amnesty International's UK Media Award in 2009. In 2010, the New York \"Daily News\" listed WikiLeaks first among websites \"that could totally change the news,\" and Julian Assange received the Sam Adams Award and was named the Readers' Choice for \"TIME's Person of the Year\" in 2010. The UK Information Commissioner has stated that \"WikiLeaks is part of the phenomenon of the online, empowered citizen.\" During its first days, an Internet petition in support of WikiLeaks attracted more than six hundred thousand signatures. \n\nSympathisers of WikiLeaks in the media and academia commended it during its early years for exposing state and corporate secrets, increasing transparency, assisting freedom of the press, and enhancing democratic discourse while challenging powerful institutions. In 2010, the UN High Commissioner for Human Rights expressed concern over the \"cyber war\" being led at the time against WikiLeaks, and in a joint statement with the Organization of American States the UN Special Rapporteur called on states and other people to keep international legal principles in mind.\n\nSeveral Republicans who had once been highly critical of WikiLeaks and Julian Assange began to speak fondly of him after WikiLeaks published the DNC leaks and started to regularly criticise Hillary Clinton and the Democratic Party. Having called WikiLeaks \"disgraceful\" in 2010, President-Elect Donald Trump praised WikiLeaks in October 2016, saying, \"I love WikiLeaks.\" Newt Gingrich, who called for Assange to be \"treated as an enemy combatant\" in 2010, praised him as a \"down to Earth, straight forward interviewee\" in 2017. Sean Hannity, who had in 2010 said that Assange waged a \"war\" on the United States, praised him in 2016 for showing \"how corrupt, dishonest and phony our government is\". Sarah Palin, who had in 2010 described Assange as an \"anti-American operative with blood on his hands\", lavished praise on him in 2017. Ann Coulter called for Assange to be awarded the presidential medal of freedom.\n\nAt the same time, several US government officials have criticised WikiLeaks for exposing classified information and claimed that the leaks harm national security and compromise international diplomacy. Several human rights organisations requested with respect to earlier document releases that WikiLeaks adequately redact the names of civilians working with international forces, to prevent repercussions. Some journalists have likewise criticised a perceived lack of editorial discretion when releasing thousands of documents at once and without sufficient analysis. In 2016, Harvard law professor and Electronic Frontier Foundation board member Jonathan Zittrain argued that a culture in which one constantly risks being \"outed\" as a result of virtual Watergate-like break-ins (or violations of the Fourth Amendment) could lead people to hesitate to speak their minds.\n\nIn April 2017, CIA Director Mike Pompeo called WikiLeaks \"a non-state hostile intelligence service often abetted by state actors like Russia\".\n\nAlso in April 2017, Attorney General Jeff Sessions stated that arresting Julian Assange of WikiLeaks was a priority: \"We have professionals that have been in the security business of the United States for many years that are shocked by the number of leaks and some of them are quite serious. So yes, it is a priority. We've already begun to step up our efforts and whenever a case can be made, we will seek to put some people in jail.\"\n\nIn 2011, hacktivist group Anonymous published a secret proposal presented by a Palantir Technologies employee to Hunton & Williams, a Washington, D.C. law firm, to attempt to discredit WikiLeaks and supporters such as Glenn Greenwald with disinformation and cyberattacks. Two other private security firms, Berico Technologies and HBGary, were also involved in the proposal. Palantir temporarily suspended the employee, its CEO Alex Karp apologised to Greenwald, and a spokesperson said the company would have collapsed if it had carried out the proposal.\n\nRelease of United States diplomatic cables was followed by the creation of a number of other organisations based on the WikiLeaks model.\n\nA thriller about WikiLeaks was released in the United States on 18 October 2013. The documentary \"\" by director Alex Gibney premiered at the 2013 Sundance Film Festival. \"War, Lies and Videotape\" is a documentary by French directors Paul Moreira and Luc Hermann from press agency Premieres Lignes. The film was first released in France, in 2011 and then broadcast worldwide. \"The Source\" is a 2014 oratorio by Ted Hearne, with a libretto by Mark Doten that features WikiLeaks document disclosures by Chelsea Manning.\n\n"}
