{"id": "41705282", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=41705282", "title": "99% Invisible", "text": "99% Invisible\n\n99% Invisible is an independently produced radio show created by Roman Mars that focuses on design and architecture. It began as a collaborative project between San Francisco public radio station KALW and the American Institute of Architects in San Francisco. Versions of the show are distributed by PRX for broadcast by a number of radio stations, and as a podcast as part of the Radiotopia network.\n\nThe show's name is taken from a quote by Buckminster Fuller: \"Ninety-nine percent of who you are is invisible and untouchable.\" Its goal is to expose the unseen and overlooked aspects of design, architecture, and activity in the world. Each episode generally focuses on a single topic or specific example of design, often including interviews with architects, experts, or people who have been influenced by the design.\n\nIn 2014, \"99% Invisible\" began its fourth season, the first in which it had a weekly release schedule. 2018 staff include episode producers Avery Trufelman, Katie Mingle, Delany Hall, Emmet FitzGerald, technical producer Sharif Yousseff, administrative assistant Taryn Mazza, musical composer Sean Real, and digital director Kurt Kohlstedt.\n\nCritical reception has generally been very positive, with the show garnering acclaim from many notable radio producers and media outlets. Ira Glass of This American Life described the show as \"completely wonderful and entertaining and beautifully produced\", and Jad Abumrad has said it \"has a kind of rhythm and musicality that you don’t normally find in radio or podcast storytelling.\" In 2013 Yahoo! News included \"99% Invisible\" on its list of \"best podcasts you aren't listening to but should be\", and Miranda Sawyer of The Observer highlighted the show, saying \"it's just great\".\n\nHost Roman Mars was included in \"Fast Company\"'s Most Creative People list of 2013 for his work on \"99% Invisible\", and included on the Most Creative People in Business 1000 in 2014.\n\nAs of January 2014 the show is listed in the top 50 of iTunes' Top Podcasts rankings. Of the over 4000 listener ratings on iTunes, upwards of 97% gave the show five stars.\n\nThe show's 2014 episode \"Structural Integrity\" was one of nine award winners at the 2015 Third Coast International Audio Festival.\n\n\"99% Invisible\" has produced a variety of episodes in collaboration with other producers and radio shows. Episode 84b called \"Trading Places with Planet Money\" was made with NPR's \"Planet Money\" podcast and discusses commodity trading in the context of the 1983 film \"Trading Places\". \"The Political Stage\", episode 63, was a collaboration with Andrea Seabrook and \"DecodeDC\" that focused on the production of campaign trail events.\n\n"}
{"id": "31603133", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=31603133", "title": "Adams &amp; Prentice", "text": "Adams &amp; Prentice\n\nAdams & Prentice, Mamfeldt, Adams & Prentice, and Mamfeldt, Adams & Woodbridge were s series of American architectural firms in mid-twentieth-century New York City, with Adams & Prentice (fl. 1929–1941) being the most well-known, all established by architect Lewis Greenleaf Adams, AIA with various partners. The series of partnerships were the predecessor firms of the influential firm Adams & Woodbridge (fl. 1945–1974), which was functional from 1945 to 1974 with partners Adams and Frederick James Woodbridge, FAIA, formerly of the firm Evans, Moore & Woodbridge. Adams & Woodbridge later estimated in 1953 that their firm and its above-mentioned predecessor firms had been responsible for “about 100 residences and alterations.” In 1929, the office was located at 15 West 38th Street, Manhattan.\n\n1933: Lu Shan, Gladstone, New Jersey, the estate of Henry and Leila Luce.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "462933", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=462933", "title": "Body image", "text": "Body image\n\nBody image is a person's perception of the aesthetics or sexual attractiveness of their own body. It involves how a person sees themselves according to the standards that have been set by society. The Austrian neurologist and psychoanalyst Paul Schilder coined the phrase \"body-image\" in his book \"The Image and Appearance of the Human Body\" (1935).\nHuman society has at all times placed great value on beauty of the human body, but a person's perception of their own body may not correspond to society's standards.\n\nThe concept of body image is used in a number of disciplines, including psychology, medicine, psychiatry, psychoanalysis, philosophy and cultural and feminist studies; the media also often uses the term . Across these disciplines and media there is no consensus definition, but body image may be expressed as how people view themselves in the mirror, or in their minds. It incorporates the memories, experiences, assumptions, and comparisons of one's own appearance, and overall attitudes towards one's height, shape, and weight. An individual's impression of their body is also assumed to be a product of ideals cultivated by various social and cultural ideals.\n\nThe issues surrounding body image can be examined through body negativity and through body positivity. Negative body image consists of a disoriented view of one's shape; whereby one may often feel self-conscious or feel ashamed, and assume others are more attractive. Aside from having low self-esteem, sufferers typically fixate on altering their physical appearances. Long-term behavior could thus potentially lead to higher risks of eating disorders, isolation, and mental illnesses. Having a negative body-image may lead to a more serious mental illness such as body dysmorphic disorder: \"Body dysmorphic disorder (BDD), occasionally still called dysmorphophobia, is a mental disorder characterized by the obsessive idea that some aspect of one's own body part or appearance is severely flawed and warrants exceptional measures to hide or fix their dysmorphic part on their person...\"\nPositive body image on the other hand, is described as a clear true perception of one's figure. In addition to celebrating and appreciating the body, it also requires an understanding that an individual's appearance does not reflect their character or self-worth.\n\nA 2007 report by the American Psychological Association found that a culture-wide sexualization of girls and women was contributing to increased female anxiety associated with body image. An Australian government Senate Standing Committee report on the sexualization of children in the media reported similar findings associated with body image. However, other scholars have expressed concern that these claims are not based on solid data.\n\nBody image can have a wide range of psychological effects and physical effects. Throughout history, it has been extremely difficult for people to live up to the standards of society and what they believe the ideal body is. Many factors contribute to a person's body image; some of these include: family dynamics, mental illness, biological predispositions and environmental causes for obesity or malnutrition, and cultural expectations (e.g., media and politics). People who are either underweight or overweight can have poor body image. However, when people are constantly told and shown the cosmetic appeal of weight loss and are warned about the risks of obesity, those who are normal or overweight on the BMI scale have higher risks of poor body image. This is something that can lead to a change in a person's body image. Often, people who have a low body image will try to alter their bodies in some way, such as by dieting or by undergoing cosmetic surgery. \"We expected women would feel worse about their bodies after seeing ultra-thin models, compared to no models if they have internalized the thin ideal, this replicating previous findings.\"\n\nSociety often constructs our behaviors and beliefs, such as personal developments, physiological and psychological interactions, and the common \"perception of our bodies as a reflection of self worth\". Body image struggles have been prevalent for many centuries now, especially with the rapid constant shifts in ideal body types. In the past, norms were typically set by cultural beliefs, genders, or social standings. Despite these being prevalent today, changes in the fashion and media industries are other influences at hand.\n\nDuring Ancient Egyptian times, the perfect woman was said to have a slender figure, with narrow shoulders, and a tall waist. Yet, females were emboldened in their beauty habits and general independence. Standards were reformed in Ancient Greece, when society began worshipping the male figure instead. As men faced greater pressures on beauty and perfection, women sported a fuller and plump figure, with fair skin tones becoming more popular. The pale skin craze was soon adopted in the Han Dynasty, but waist sizes narrowed. Overall figures shrunk, as the Chinese associated petite with femininity.\n\nWith the need to reflect her husband's status, the behaviors and outward appearances of the wife grew incredible crucial during the Italian Renaissance. Since size was linked to wealth, women maintained bodies with full hips and an ample bosom. The Victorian Era witnessed a similar movement, but the popularity of the corset cinching the waist, led to the desirable hourglass figure. The era also introduced the Gibson Girl, which was the first sign of influence by the fashion and media industries. Created by Charles Gibson, he envisioned femininity as slim and tall, with large busts and wide hips, but a narrow waist. These girls were also often shown in magazines such as \"Harper's Bazaar\" and \"LIFE\", which resulted in a link between trendy fashions and styles, and the maintenance of active lifestyles and healthy well-beings\n\nAfter World War I, the Gibson Girl transformed into the Flapper, which dominated the period of the \"Roaring Twenties\". Women transitioned towards androgynous looks, whereby hairstyles were kept short, and wore brassieres that flatten the chest. Loose clothing was also a trend, as it downplayed the waist by lowering it below the navel, resulting in a straight boyish figure.\n\nDress senses become more casual as well, and is said to have been a representation of the reduction in social or political tension after the war, or an extensive disagreement with the matron like image of the women behind the alcohol Prohibition movement in the USA. With advertisements increasingly advocating the need to achieve a thinner frame, many women therefore pursued diets and exercises. Although slimmer body types were favoured, a sporty and healthy appearance was still prized above the frail and sickly look from the Victorian Era.\n\nThe 1930s and 1940s witnessed the devastating effects of the 2nd World War. While men were out on the battlefield, females began entering the workforce. This resulted in more formal and traditional military dress styles for women, which caused another shift in body image. While waists remained thin but prominent, the media embraced a more curvaceous look similar to the hourglass figure, through the addition of broad shoulders and large breasts as well.\n\nSince this era was part of the golden age of Hollywood, many celebrities continued to influence this trend by wearing tight fitted clothing that emphasized their figures. Pin-up girls and sex symbols radiating glamour soon followed in the 1950s, and the proportions of the hourglass figure expanded. Notable names include Marilyn Monroe, Sophia Loren, and Jessica Rabbit. In order to achieve this ideal figure, women consumed weight-gain supplements. The release of \"Playboy\" magazine and the \"Barbie\" doll during this era were other additions in the need to achieve this ideal.\n\nDepictions of the perfect woman slowly grew thinner from 1960s onwards. The \"Swinging Sixties\" saw a similar look to the Flapper with the emergence of high-fashion model Twiggy, who promoted the thin and petite frame, with long slender legs, and an adolescent but androgynous figure. Other characteristics include, small busts, narrow hips, and flat stomachs. Many women either underwent diets or switched to weight-loss supplements to achieve the new look. This eventually resulted in an increase in anorexia nervosa sufferers during the 1970s.\n\nGreater importance was soon placed on fitness. Actress Farrah Fawcett introduced a more toned and athletic body type. The exercise craze continued in the 1980s with Jane Fonda and the release of workout videos, motivating women to be thin but fit and svelte. This era also saw the rise of tall, long legged supermodels; such as Naomi Campbell and Cindy Crawford, dominating the industry, and setting a new beauty standard for females around the world.\n\nGreater issues arose in the 1990s, when supermodel Kate Moss popularized the stick-thin figure instead. The fashion industry pushed her image further with the 'heroin-chic' look, which dominated the catwalks during that time. This was communicated through waifish appearances, bony structures, thin limbs, and an androgynous figure. Although this extreme period was only short-lived, the 2000s saw the rise of the Victoria's Secret models, who altered beauty norms to include slim but healthy figures, with large breasts and bottoms, flat and visible abs, and prominent thigh gaps.\n\nMore women pursued cosmetic surgery practices, on top of diets and exercise regimes, to attain the perfect appearance. As of 2017, positive measures are being taken to promote a better body image such as the emergence of fitness trends and plus-size models in the fashion and media industries. However, the advancement of technologies and pressures from the media have led to even greater importance being placed on the way we look as an indication of our personal value.\n\nOn account of the evolution of society today; text messaging, e-mails, social media, and other technological advancements have dominated an individual's sequence of physical interactions. Although technology provides the convenience of connecting with others, its association with the media has resulted in a \"platform of delivery in which we intercept and interpret messages about ourselves, our self-worth, and our bodies\".\n\nAccording to a study by \"Dove\", only 4% of women thought they were beautiful, while approximately 70% of women and girls in the UK believed the media's portrayal of impractical beauty standards fueled their appearance anxieties. As a result, the \"U.S. Department of Health and Human Services\" reported that, 91% of women were mostly unhappy with their bodies, while 40% will consider cosmetic surgery to fix their flaws.\n\nWomen \"all over the world are evaluated and oppressed by their appearances\"; be it age, skin tone, or size. A large facet of \"social currency for girls and women continues to be rooted in physical appearance\". With accessories and apparel designed to enhance a look, social media, magazines, and marketing campaigns and advertisements also add to the burden of perfection. This is still prevalent today, whereby female bodies are staged as the ultimate commodity, and used for the selling of products. The ultimate purpose of many advertisements is thus to appeal to the insecurities of individuals, in hopes of selling them the solution. Marketers fueling negative body imagery are also highly aware that those who undergo these problems are more likely to purchase their products. For that reason, advertisements regularly advocate the ability to achieve a particular look through retouched images, the sexual objectification of women, and products accompanied with explicit messages.\n\nMany advertisements today display an image of the 'perfect' woman with an idealistic body and flawless facial features. This ideal woman creates an unrealistic image for women and puts pressure on them to live up to that certain standard. According to Naomi Wolf \"our culture disempowers women by holding them prisoner to an unattainable beauty ideal\". They reference various researcher's experiments in this field and the results that were found. For example, they refer to Hargreaves & Tiggemann (2004), in which they look at how exposure to television adverts that contain women of a thin-ideal effects the body image of the women watching them. They found that the exposure led to an increase in body dissatisfaction.\n\nThe need for body satisfaction and appearance esteem continues to increase with the abundance of billboards, magazines, and conversations displaying \"unrealistic images of beauty\" (LiveLifeGetActive, 2016). Weight prejudices brought up in the media or social settings are also prevalent within society. The tendency to link physical attractive qualities with positive personal qualities has been documented since the 1970s. People assign positive personality traits and overall life outcomes to those they perceive as attractive both mentally and physically. The very thin and beautiful models within the media are therefore seen as the most successful and socially desirable people on the planet\".\n\nIn most societies, thinness is typically associated with happiness, success, youthfulness, and social acceptability. This ideal is heavily portrayed throughout the mainstream media, whereby women are assumed to be perfect in every way. In addition, the idea that a person can never be too thin or too rich, makes it difficult for females to attain any sort of happiness about their personal appearance.\n\nHence, a women's attitude towards her body are thus a result of comparing it with those depicted in the media, along with society's obsession with thinness. A study was done by Rachel Cohen in 2015 to investigate if Facebook impacted the number of women experiencing body dissatisfaction, 'Since social media forums such as Facebook involve one's peers, the current study aimed to determine whether the relationship between appearance comparison and body image dissatisfaction would be stronger for those exposed to social media images, compared to conventional media images'\n\nBody dissatisfaction creates negative attitudes, a damaging mentality, and negative habits in young, adult females. \nThe emphasis on thinness and on an ideal female body shape and size is psychologically detrimental to the well-being of many young women. Many have thus resorted to grooming, dieting, and surgical pursuits, in order to be happy. A negative body image is very common among young-adult females. It has been found that “The prevalence of eating disorder development among college females is especially high, with rates up to 24% among college students”\nGlobal eating disorder rates such as anorexia and bulimia are gradually rising in adolescent girls. The \"National Eating Disorders Association\", reported that 95% of individuals who suffer from an eating disorder are aged 12 to 26, and anorexia is the third most common illness among teenagers. Based on another study by \"Dove\", 87% of individuals with low body-esteems often avoid eating, and would rather place their health at risk for the sake of beauty. With the habitual use of social media, teenage girls in particular, are most prone \"to internalize negative messages and obsess about weight loss to obtain a thin appearance\". As a result, pressures from social media doubles for adolescent girls between the ages of 13 to 18 years old, and more than half of have already reported the need to diet. The pressure on females \"to cope with the effects of culturally induced body insecurity\" is therefore severe, with many others previously citing that \"their lives would be better if they were not judged by their looks and body shape, [as] this is leading to low self-esteem, eating disorders, mental health problems and depression.\"\n\nBesides the need to be thin and young, there is also a weight prejudice within our society that is brought up in media, social settings, with friends, or even by parents. These high standards for women to follow and live up to mixed with the practical impossibilities of achieving such standards develops an attitude from women that thinness is extremely desirable. As an effect of this women can develop eating disorders and other mental health issues such as lower self-esteem as they feel the societal pressure to fit the mold of beautiful. Even the average size of clothing women wear has changed drastically within the past decades, as a size 8 used to be considered small to average and is now nearly plus size. Actress/comedian Amy Schumer spoke out on the issue of size when she was featured in Glamour Magazine as a \"Plus Size Woman\". Upon the magazines publication, Schumer posted a tweet saying, \"I think there's nothing wrong with being plus size. Beautiful healthy women. Plus size is considered size 16 in America. I go between a size 6 and a 8.\"\n\nWomen who value this idea of having to be extremely thin and a size 2 or 4 have body dissatisfaction, and take part in cosmetic surgeries or weight loss behaviors (such as dieting) to try to become the standard that they so commonly see. The problem in which people, specifically women, are constantly comparing themselves to the people and images in the media leads to individuals believing they are more overweight than they actually are. unattainable. \"Idealised media images are routinely subjected to computer manipulation techniques, such as airbrushing (e.g. slimming thighs and increasing muscle tone). The resulting images present an unobtainable 'aesthetic perfection' that has no basis in biological reality\" Paraskeva et al. (2015).\n\nHowever, other researchers have contested the claims of the media effects paradigm. An article by Christopher Ferguson, Benjamin Winegard, and Bo Winegard, for example, argues that peer effects are much more likely to cause body dissatisfaction than media effects, and that media effects have been overemphasized. It also argues that one must be careful about making the leap from arguing that certain environmental conditions might cause body dissatisfaction to the claim that those conditions can cause diagnosable eating disorders.\n\nWomen are constantly exposed to the retouched bodies of celebrities, which reflect society's ideal thin body in the media. This leads to the women developing poor self-images. Women begin to see the thin ideal body, which they see constantly in the media, as the perfect body that they should aim to achieve.\n\nMales also face similar burdens in regards to attractiveness, whereby the media's depiction of the ideal muscular physique has caused numerous body dissatisfaction issues among young men. Teenage boys in particular, are now three times more likely to suffer from Body Dysmorphic Disorder (BDD), with numbers reaching 45% since 1991. BDD is a mental illness whereby an individual compulsively focuses on physical self-perceived flaws. According to a study by Rawhide, 18% of adolescent males were most worried about their weight and physique (Malcore, 2016), while 29% frequently thought about their appearances. Moreover, 50% had recently complained about the way they look.\n\nThe main causes of male body issues include 25% being teased about their weight, while 33% specified social media as the source for self-consciousness. A factor that affects male body image on social media sites is \"celebrity involvement\". Following celebrities on social media sites makes it possible to interact personally with celebrities, which has been shown to influence male body image. A number of respondents also admitted to being affected by negative body talk from others. Men may also suffer from the mental disorder bigorexia, also known as muscle dysmorphia. Sufferers of bigorexia tend to constantly chase their ideal muscular body. However, many sufferers never attain this ideal body due to never being fully satisfied with their physique.\n\nWhile women face expectations to be increasingly thin, endorsements featuring the muscular ideal therefore causes numerous problems for men. Granting both genders may share the idealised image of narrow waists and hips, other characteristics specific to the mesomorphic and muscular V-shaped body, include broad shoulders, a well-developed upper body, [and] toned six-pack abs. The importance men placed on muscle and weight may be traced back to the release of G.I. Joe. The \"bulked-up action heroes, along with the brawny characters in many video games, present an anatomically impossible ideal for boys, much as Barbie promotes proportions that are physically impossible for girls.\"\n\nMales are thus exposed to extensive imaging of men with bulging muscles, who often act as warriors or fighters, solving problems with their fists. By watching their heroes fight and punch, boys learn that aggression is essential and that they should strive to have huge muscles too. If these role models were smiling, less hyper-masculinized, or less aggressive, boys would not learn from such a young age that hyper-masculinity is the only successful way to be a 'man'. A new term named 'Fitspiration' has even come into play over recent years. 'Fitspiration,' a term that combines \"fitness\" and \"inspiration\", is an online trend designed to inspire viewers towards a healthier lifestyle by promoting exercise and healthy food'.\n\nA popular slogan of 'Fitspiration' photos is \"Strong is the New Skinny\", an expression that encourages people to not be afraid of getting strong and working out. The popularity of a desire to achieve a good body and healthy lifestyle has increased in the last decade due to fitness accounts of Facebook and Instagram. Although 'Fitspiration' accounts and pictures have the intention of motivating people to pursue healthy lifestyles, they oftentimes contain objectifying elements or only show a certain body type, which can negatively affect many women's body images. For instance, 'Fitspiration' images tend to focus on specific poses or features of a woman such as washboard abs, which in turn objectifies the person.\n\nRegardless of the lower number of products targeting males, negative messages can be communicated through fitness websites, video games, pop culture, movies, and other types of media as well. Based on a report by the Picture of Health, 53% of boys cited advertisements as a \"major source of pressure to look good; [though] social media (57%) and friends (68%) exerted more influence, while celebrities (49%) were slightly less persuasive\". In spite of this, 22% of adolescent boys thought that the ideals depicted by the media were aspirational, while 33% cited it was healthy.\n\nWith rising pressures to achieve a muscular physique, many teenage boys thus participate in extreme workouts and weight trainings for long periods of the day. Some eventually abuse supplements and steroids to further increase muscle mass. In 2016, 10.5% acknowledged the use of muscle-enhancing substances, while 5 to 6% of respondents admitted to the use of steroids. Although dieting is often overlooked, a significant increase in eating disorders is present among men. Currently, 1 out of 4 men suffer from eating disorders, while 31% have admitted to purging or binge eating in the past.\n\nThe fashion industry is a prime target of body image issues, with models often facing second-hand criticism. Fashion industry insiders believe that clothes hang better on tall, thin women; however, critics argue that catwalk models communicate an unhealthy and unrealistic body image to the public. In the world of fashion, it often seems as if measurements, or the number or alphabet carried defines an individual. Based on a survey participated by 13 to 17 year olds in the U.S., 90% \"felt pressured by fashion and media industries to be skinny\", with 65% believing that the body image portrayed were too thin. Furthermore, more than 60% habitually compare themselves to models, while 46% will strive to achieve it. The underlying issue with brands featuring underweight models, therefore revolves around expressing \"the message that an unhealthy body type is the most socially valued\". For eating disorders sufferers, viewing these images could consequently strengthen desires to lose weight.\n\nThe severity of this matter continues to rise as fashion magazines directed at females, subtly promote thinness and diet practices, and are heavily relied on by teenagers for beauty and fashion advice. \"Seventeen\" magazine in particular recorded one of the highest number of articles devoted to appearances, leading to 69% of girls stating it influenced their ideal body shape. In addition, 50% of advertisements featured also used beauty appeal to sell products. With the high number of publications featuring articles promoting unhealthy weight loss, the \"U.S. Department of Health and Human Services\" reported an astounding 90% of teenage girls voiced the need to change their appearances, while 81% of 10 year olds were already afraid of being fat. As a result, many argue that fashion and media's powerful role on body image and self-perception, will spiral into eating disorders, According to a survey by the \"Manchester Metropolitan University\", \"self-esteem and views of body image suffered after the participants were shown magazine pictures of models, [suggests] that media portrayal of images can prolong anorexia and bulimia in women and may even be a cause of it\".\n\nAccording to \"Dove's Global Beauty And Confidence\" report, \"a total of 71% of women and 67% of girls want to call on the media to do a better job portraying women of diverse physical appearance, age, race, shape and size.\" In addition, 67% of men now strongly believe that it is unacceptable for brands to use photo manipulation techniques to alter the body image of a model. To counter such issues, the fashion magazine industry has made efforts in including 'real' women, and reducing or banning the use of airbrushing tools. Despite the amount of feminist features in magazines though, \"body fascism is [still] reinforced by the advertisements, fashion stories and beauty pages.\" Likewise, fashion brands and retailers adopt vanity sizing in their assortments to intentionally raise a customer's self-esteem while shopping in stores. This involves labeling clothes with smaller sizes than the actual cut of the items, to trick and attract the consumer. The strategy was based on research reporting the lowering of customer self-esteems and interests, in products with larger sizing labels.\n\nLess is usually known about the pressures models in the industry face, but striving hard to meet the requirements of their agency or brand is a main facet. Among the group, 69% were told to tone up, while 62% cited that their agencies required them to lose weight or change their body shape. Another 54% of models revealed that they would be dropped by their agencies if they failed to comply. Hence, models habitually weigh themselves under the healthy Body Mass Index (BMI) level. A study published in the International Journal of Eating Disorders, discovered that a majority of models had a body mass index (BMI) of 17.41, which qualifies for anorexia.\n\nIn the past twenty years, runway models have also transformed from a typical size 6-8 to 0-2. The average weight of a typical model in the United States was ecorded to be twenty-three percent less than an average woman in society. This phenomenon has caused countless of models to suffer from illness such as eating disorders and anorexia nervosa. In extreme cases, some models have died due to complications caused by eating disorders. In 2006, the fashion industry came under fire due to the untimely death of two models; Luisel Ramos, and Ana Carolina Reston. Both girls suffered complications from their eating disorders, and were severely underweight. Owing to the intensifying burdens, a high number of models are therefore willing to participate in intensive exercise regimes, diets, fasts, and detoxes; in order to maintain or lose weight. In addition, 17% have admitted to stimulant abuse, while another 8% frequently engaged in self-induced vomiting.\n\nWith the aim of protecting models and projecting a healthier body image, Spain, Italy, Brazil, and Israel, passed bills that prohibit models from working with a Body Mass Index (BMI) below 18.5. The UK and U.S., chose to use less compelling tactics of cultivating the general public through the promotion of education campaigns in society. France on the other hand, introduced a new regulation this year preventing the employment of extremely skinny models, and the need for a medical certificate to verify their health. This was an update to the previous law passed that prohibited agencies from using models with a BMI lower than 18. France is also working on ensuring retailers specify airbrushed images in magazines, websites, and advertisements. However, some argue that these laws may not be effective as, majority of individuals are already aware of digital retouching techniques, and may even use it themselves.\n\nDue to the criticisms surrounding the glamourising of eating disorders, brands are actively playing their part in cultivating better body images too. Fashion conglomerates; \"Kering\" and \"LVMH\", recently \"announced that they will no longer hire models smaller than a U.S. size 2\". Not only will this improve the working conditions of models, both companies hope it may inspire others to follow suit. Although, the industry is moving in the right direction, it is arguable that the banning of size zero could be seen as a discriminatory act; similar to thin shaming. For that reasons, focus should be placed on altering beauty norms, rather than blame the wearer for their size. Moreover, the announcement of a small and minimum dress size, which does not fit the average body type of most countries, continues to \"send the message that super slim body types is the 'ideal'\".\n\nAttributable to the level of interest in women who do not match the proportions of average models, plus-size models are slowly emerging in the mainstream media. With several utilising their positions to promote body positivity, their continued presence in the industry, undoubtedly reign beneficial to the health of other models and customers. Health reporter Philippa ofBBC News discusses how the introduction of more diversity upon body images can be a helpful factor into improving self-confidence for all body types. Prominent names include Ashley Graham; who is the face of popular plus-size retailer \"Lane Bryant\", and Iskra Lawrence; who is a classified role model for lingerie and swimwear retailer \"Aerie\". Fashion magazines are beginning to include plus-size models as well, with \"Sports Illustrated\" gaining worldwide attention when it showcased the first plus-size model on the cover of its swimsuit issue.\n\nFashion designers are also strong supporters for embracing diversity and healthy body ideals in fashion. \"Christian Siriano\" specifically, shocked the fashion world by casting five plus-size models for his New York Fashion Week shows. Despite the box-office success of \"Ghostbusters\", Siriano also made global headlines after he designed a gown for actress Leslie Jones, because no one else would. Although a high number of plus-size models dominated the runways this year, print advertisements saw a decrease, with only 2.2% casted.\n\nModels who publicly advocate their opinions of the fashion industry are growing as well, especially with the criticism and strain placed on their well-beings. Many have notably used \"Instagram\" as a tool to \"encourage self-acceptance, fight back against body-shamers, and post plenty of selfies celebrating their figure\". In the U.S., a group of plus-size models launched the \"#DearNYFW\" campaign, which targeted the fashion industry's harmful approach towards their bodies. This movement was broadcast across different social media platforms, with other models using the hashtag to share their experience, in hopes of persuading the American fashion industry to start \"prioritizing health and celebrate diversity on the runway\".\n\nIn regards to men falling victims to body image issues, fashion photographer Tarik Carroll released a photo series titled the \"EveryMAN Project\". The project showcased large-framed queer and transgender men of color, with the purpose of \"challenging hyper-masculinity and gender norms, while bringing body-positivity to the forefront\". Furthmore, Caroll aims to enlighten society about body image struggles in men, after hearing the complaints of male models.\n\nThe lack of fashion-forward plus-size clothing in the fashion industry on the other hand, has given rise to the \"#PlusIsEqual\" movement. There was often a misconception by retailers that full-figured women were not interested in purchasing trendy styles. However, high-street brands such as Forever 21, and ASOS, have increased product offerings to include plus-size options for their customers. Other brands include, \"Victoria Beckham\" who plans to release a range of high-street clothing with sizes up to XXXL in the upcoming months, and \"Nike\" who expanded their plus size collection to cater for sizes 1X to 3X. In regards to the criticisms surrounding the term plus-size causing unnecessary labeling, \"Kmart\" therefore replaced its numerical sizing with positive tags such as, \"lovely\" and \"fabulous\" instead.\n\nProtesting against photo retouching is another important aspect towards body positivity, with the most famous example being Aerie's \"ArieReal\" campaign. Since 2014, the movement promised to display \"campaign spreads and brand imagery with stomach rolls, gapless thighs and other perceived flaws that would normally have been edited out of the ads\". Other brands such as \"Neon Moon\", which is a feminist lingerie brand from London, deeply believes in embracing and advocating the beauty of flaws, instead of the need to retouch their models for aesthetic purposes. Hence, campaigns often feature a range of \"diverse models and lack of airbrushing as a marketing tool\". U.S. e-tailer \"ModCloth\" on the other hand, explored other methods including, employing their staff as models for the swimwear collection.\n\nIn the past, exposure to photos or articles were primarily found in traditional media; however, the accessibility of the internet today has resulted in an infinite array online. The world we inhabit is transpiring into a saturated place driven by imageries, which \"force [narrower] standards of beauty than ever before\". One of the greatest influence the internet has on body image, is the creation of social media. Users are constantly bombarded by notifications, posts, and photos about the lives of others; \"sending messages about what we could, should, or would be if we only purchased certain products, made certain choices, or engaged in certain behaviors\". Despite the ability to create and control content on social media, \"the same unattainable body ideals we see in traditional media are also reflected in the online environment.\" Over-engagement with social networking platforms and images will therefore, also \"encourage a psychological adoption of unrealistic beauty ideals ..., [which] can lead to poor body image and low self-esteem\".\n\nIn 2016, psychologists confirmed the relationship between social media usage and body image anxieties, dieting, and the goal towards thinness. Based on a survey, 56% of women acknowledged the effect of the \"social media culture in driving the pressure for perfection and negative body image\"; whereby it forces them to look a certain way. These platforms further reiterate the need for individuals to compare themselves with others online, resulting in higher expectations towards their standards of beauty. Hence, 42% of women stated social media caused them to feel worse about their bodies, while another study by the \"University of South Australia\", discovered that individuals who frequently uploaded or viewed appearance-related items were more likely to internalise the thin ideal.\n\nApplications such as \"Instagram\" have become a \"body-image battleground\", while the \"selfie\" is now the universal lens in which individuals use to criticise their bodies and others. \"Facebook\" and \"Snapchat\" also allow users to receive appearance approvals and community acceptance through the ratio of views, comments, and likes. Since individuals who use social media platforms often only display the high points of their lives, a survey by \"Common Sense\" reported that 22% felt bad if their posts were ignored, or if it did not receive the amount of attention they hoped for.\n\nThis could serve as a trigger for more insecurities, with many utilising digital manipulation techniques as well, to modify their photos in order to meet the media-crafted ideals of thinness and perfection. According to research by the \"Renfrew Center Foundation\", 50% of men and 70% of 18 to 35-year-old women edited their images before uploading. Therefore, 35% of respondents were also actively concerned about being tagged in unattractive photos, while 27% fretted about their appearances online. Yet, with the presence of fake imagery, a majority of individuals still habitually fixate on the lifestyles and belongings of others.\n\nWith the growth of the wellness industry in recent years, social media platforms have witnessed an assortment of fitness influencers and trends. Followers obsessively pursue these diet and exercise regimes posted as a way to remain healthy, while the influencers hope it generates body positivity in return. Yet, these bloggers and companies have received numerous criticism because the \"drive for 'wellness' and 'clean eating' has become stealthy covers for more dieting and deprivation\".\n\nReports have also shown that the messages delivered by \"fitspiration\" websites are sometimes identical to the \"thinspiration\" or pro-anorexia types. This is evident through \"language inducing guilt about weight or the body, and promoted dieting\". Although the wellness trend may not lead to eating disorders, the marketing of restrictive diets to young women as a form of self care could potentially cause \"increasingly disordered eating\", whereby they became more concerned with ingredients and limited certain types of food. This illness is better known as Orthorexia; which is the obsession with the right and wrong types of food.\n\nAs an attempt to tackle such issues, the UK launched a national campaign called \"Be Real,\" after findings showed 76% of secondary school students who learnt about body confidence in class felt more positive about themselves. The goal of this movement was thus to improve body confidence through educational resources provided to schools, and persuading the media, businesses, and the diet industry to endorse different body shapes and sizes instead. Despite the negative outcomes of technological advancements altering the perceptions of an individual's body image and mental health, the cultivation of social media is still beneficial.\n\nParallel to traditional media, it may be employed as a tool to share and spread body positivity. Social networking sites and applications ultimately build a platform for users to speak out on issues, with many industry insiders utilising their online leverage to protest for change. Previous techniques brands and influencers have tested include, the promotion of a positive body image through popular hashtags and marketing campaigns, and the formation of groups that support self-love and the banning of body shaming.\n\nIn response to the criticism of social media driving eating disorders, platforms such as \"Instagram\", have banned the use of thinspiration and thinspo related hashtags. Other solutions include transformation photos, and the promotion of hashtags such as \"#SelfLove\" and \"#BodyPositivity\"\".\" Transformation photos are side-by-side images displaying an individual's fitness or weight-loss progress. Although, it aims to \"serve as inspiration for people looking to change themselves physically or live healthier lives\", some users have utilised this technique to showcase the level of deceptiveness within social media. Likewise, in an effort to actively help those suffering from eating disorders, \"Eating Disorder Hope\" launched the \"Pro-Recovery\" \"Movement\". The project involved hosting of live Twitter chat encouraging sufferers to celebrate self-love and a positive body image, through recovery subject matters.\n\nOther organizations such as ProjectHEAL, introduced a campaign called \"#WhatMakesMeBeautiful\", with the aim of celebrating different talents, personalities, and other non-appearance related attributes that also make one beautiful. This movement was especially successful among the eating disorder community; hence, emphasising the \"need for social media movements that celebrate self-love and looking at beauty through a different lens\".\nCelebrity culture is known as one of the main influences on body image for this generation. Studies in this area have been carried out with the majority proving that viewing media images affects participants abilities to correctly estimate the size and parts of their own bodies. We are subjected to photoshop so often when they were shown a range of photos of famous celebrities the women with body dissatisfaction consistently choose the photos of the celebrity being photoshopped to look skinnier than the original.\n\nBody image is often measured by asking the subject to rate their current and ideal body shape using a series of depictions. The difference between these two values is the measure of body dissatisfaction. Body dissatisfaction in girls can have many negative effects, including an increased rate of smoking and a decrease in comfort with sexuality when they're older, which may lead them to consider cosmetic surgery.\n\nMonteath and McCabe found that 44% of women express negative feelings about both individual body parts and their bodies as a whole. The magazine, \"Psychology Today\" found that 56% of the women and about 40% of the men who responded to their survey in 1997 were dissatisfied with their overall appearance. American youth (37.7% of males and 51% of females) express dissatisfaction with their bodies.\n\nIn America, the dieting industry earns roughly 40 billion dollars per year. A Harvard study (Fat Talk, Harvard University Press) published in 2000 revealed that 86% of teenage girls are on a diet or believe they should be on one. Dieting has become a very common thing to not only teenage girls but even younger children as well. The National Eating Disorders Association has found out that 51% of 9- and 10-year-old girls actually feel better about themselves when they are on a diet.\n\nThere are currently more than 40 \"instruments\" used to measure body image. All of these instruments can be put into three categories: figure preferences, video projection techniques, and questionnaires. Because there are so many ways to measure body image, it makes it difficult to draw meaningful research generalizations. Many factors have to be taken into account when measuring body image, including gender, ethnicity, culture, and age.\n\nIn figure preferences the use of silhouettes is the most commonly used method. Silhouettes can be defined by a figures shape or dark outline upon a lighter background. There are many issues with this method though; for one, the drawings are not realistic looking and were originally portrayed as adults so it made them unsuitable for children. Silhouettes are used to show to the subject and have them react to the different body types. Adobe Photoshop to fit their personal preference upon their body image, altering body tones, shape or size.\n\nIn one study participants were shown a series of images flashing before them; each image was a picture of them but either increased weight or decreased weight. They were measured in self-report by responding to the pictures. Also they were measured by startle-based measures and testing their eyeblink response. \"The startle response is a complex set of physiological changes that occur in response to unexpected and intense stimulus.\" These measurements can be useful because \"Objective, psychophysiological measures, like the affect modulated startle eyeblink response, are less subject to reporting bias.\"\n\nQuestionnaires are another very commonly used method of measurement. One example of a questionnaire is BASS; it is a 9-item subscale of the Multidimensional Body-Self Relations Questionnaire. It uses a rating scale from −2 to +2 and assesses eight body areas and attributes and overall appearance (face, hair, lower torso, mid-torso, upper torso, muscle tone, height, and weight). Questionnaires can have confounding variable though. For instance, \"Acquiescent response style (ARS), or the tendency to agree with items on a survey, is more common among individuals from Asian and African cultures.\"\n\nGender differences related to body image are increasingly prevalent between men and women. Although dissatisfaction is more common in women, men are becoming more negatively affected than women. In a longitudinal study that assessed body image across time and age between men and women, men placed greater significance on their physical appearance than women, even though women report body image dissatisfaction more often. Adolescence is where this difference is most notable. One reason for this is because males are being targeted in the media more heavily today. Historically, and for a much longer period of time, the media has immoderately targeted females, which may explain why they are becoming less sensitized to the effects. This information suggests that appearance pressure and concerns are continuing to affect both men and women in western culture.\n\nMen's body image is a topic of increasing interest in both academic articles and in the popular press. Current research indicates many men wish to become more muscular than they currently perceive themselves to be, often desiring up to 26 pounds of additional muscle mass. According to the study, western men desire muscle mass over that of Asian men by as much as 30 pounds. The desire for additional muscle has been linked to many men's concepts about masculinity. A variety of research has indicated a relationship between men's endorsement of traditionally masculine ideas and characteristics, and their desire for additional muscle.\n\nSome research has suggested this relationship between muscle and masculinity may begin early in life, as boys' action figures are often depicted as super-muscular, often beyond the actual limits of human physiology. The connection between masculinity and muscle is however a cultural trend traced as far back as the Classical antiquity and linked to the war performance and its peaceful substitutes, the athletic events. In addition, men with lower, more feminine, Waist–hip ratio (WHR) feel less comfortable and self-report lower body esteem and self-efficacy than men with higher, more masculine, WHRs.\n\nIn general, research shows that body image in regards to appearance becomes less of a stress for women as they age. Studies show a decline in dissatisfaction of body image in college-aged women as they progress from the first semester of college to subsequent semesters. Their appearance rating of themselves tends to increase, while males' do not significantly change and often become worse. This suggests that the early years of college serve as a period for body image development, which can later affect the mental and physical well being of an individual.\nStudies have found that females tend to think more about their body shape and endorse thinner figures than men even into old age.\n\nWhen female undergraduates were exposed to depictions of thin women their body satisfaction decreased, but rose when exposed to larger models. In addition, many women engage in \"fat talk\" (speaking negatively about the weight-related size/shape of one's body), a behavior that has been associated with weight dissatisfaction, body surveillance, and body shame. In addition, women who overhear others using fat talk may also experience an increase in body dissatisfaction and guilt. As a result, women may experience concerns related to body image in a number of different ways and from a variety of sources.\n\nAs men and women reach older age, body image takes on a different meaning. Research studies show that the importance attached to physical appearance decreases with age.\n\nPhysical appearance remains important later in life, but the functional aspects of the body take precedence over contentment with appearance. Women are reported to benefit from the ageing process, becoming more satisfied with their images, while men begin to develop more insecurities and issues. Women reach a certain stage where they are no longer subject to the social pressures that heavily emphasize the importance of appearance. Men from the same studies are reported as becoming increasingly dissatisfied with their physical appearance as they age. Men are also less likely to implement appearance-enhancing activities into their daily lives.\n\nThe older women become the more satisfied with their body image they are likely to become because of the relief of stress from societal pressures. The older men become, the more dissatisfied they are likely to become due to increased physical and perceived incompetency. Since there are significant differences between men and women of all ages, gender serves as a better predictor of body dissatisfaction and sociocultural perceived influences than age.\n\nAdrienne Adams and Eaaron Henderson-king claim that the rates of cosmetic surgery have increased in recent years. It has been proven that the majority of people that undergo cosmetic surgery is a highly gendered activity. However, rates are increasing for men. it is predominantly women who spend more time attending to their to their bodies. Cosmetic surgery was initially developed largely in response to the reconstructive needs of wounded soldiers, but it is now primarily used in a much more feminine way to improve people's physical appearance and attractiveness.\n\nThe desire to lose weight is highly correlated with poor body image, with more women than men wanting to lose weight. Kashubeck-West \"et al.\" reported that when considering only men and women who desire to lose weight, sex differences in body image disappear.\n\nIn her book \"The Beauty Myth\", Naomi Wolf reported that \"thirty-three thousand women told American researchers they would rather lose ten to fifteen pounds than achieve any other goal.\" Through repeated images of excessively thin women in media, advertisement, and modeling, thinness has become associated with not only beauty, but happiness and success. As Charisse Goodman put it in her article, \"One Picture is Worth a Thousand Diets\", advertisements have changed society's ideas of beauty and ugliness: \"Indeed to judge by the phrasing of the ads, 'slender' and 'attractive' are one word, not two in the same fashion as 'fat' and 'ugly.'\" This idea of beauty has become drastically more narrow and unachievable, putting increased pressure on people looking to satisfy society's standards.\n\nResearch by Martin and Xavier (2010) shows that people feel more pressure from society to be thin after viewing ads featuring a slim model. Ads featuring a larger sized model resulted in less pressure to be thin. People also felt their actual body size was larger after viewing a slim model as compared to a larger model.\n\nMany, like journalist Marisa Meltzer, have argued this contemporary standard of beauty to be described as anorexic thinness, an unhealthy idea that is not representative of a natural human body: \"Never before has the 'perfect' body been at such odds with our true size.\"\n\nHowever, these figures do not distinguish between people at a low or healthy weight who are in fact overweight, between those whose self-perception as being overweight is incorrect and those whose perception of being overweight is correct.\n\nResearch by The Lancent Psychiatry discusses the relationship between mass media and eating disorders stating, \"Body-image disturbance and weight and shape concerns are the result of an acculturation process spread through the therapeutic milieu and the mass media.\" The struggles caused by body imaging have led to the increase of Anorexia nervosa diagnosis. Anorexia nervosa is an eating disorder that results in significant weight loss due to a persons own distorted body image. Its increasing rate shows the correlation between the effects body imaging through social media has on people especially upon women and how it effects the measures of weight loss.\n\nPost-1997 studies indicate that around 64% of American adults are overweight, such that if the 56%/40% female/male dissatisfaction rates in the \"Psychology Today\" study have held steady since its release, those dissatisfaction rates are if anything disproportionately low: although some individuals continue to believe themselves to be overweight when they are not, those persons are now outnumbered by persons who might be expected to be dissatisfied with their body but are not.\n\nIn turn, although social pressure to lose weight has adverse effects on some individuals who do not need to lose weight, those adverse effects are arguably outweighed by that social pressure's \"positive\" effect on the overall population, without which the recent increases in obesity and associated health and social problems (described in both popular and academic parlance as an \"obesity epidemic\") would be even more severe than they already are.\n\nMiss Representation is a documentary by Jennifer Siebel Newsom, exploring and displaying the role that mainstream media plays in society today with regards to women and the under-representation of women in influential positions. Prominent women in today's society were featured in discussing how the media has impacted their life along with their views on how the media is impacting the lives of people from an early age. These media messages have a severe impact on how individuals carry themselves along with what aspects bog them down like insecurities with body image. This film encourages viewers to start to see beyond the message and not compare themselves to these picture perfect computer-generated images.\n\nThe 2007 documentary America the Beautiful explores how the fashion and beauty industries are contributing to the problems that individuals feel regarding body image due to their beauty obsession. The film discusses a wide range of topics like plastic surgery, dieting, eating disorders, the modeling industry along with the fashion industry and much more. Young middle-school aged girls were portrayed in the beginning of the film and asked if they found themselves beautiful. The girls who are around the ages of 13 had decided that they were not beautiful. In today's society, people are starting to see themselves as ugly at an earlier age than ever before. As individuals who identify as ugly increase, the number of body image issues also increase.\n\nIn a study performed by Leslie J. Heinberg of Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, and J. Kevin Thompson of the University of South Florida, results showed that women exposed to appearance based advertisements experienced a significant growth in depression, anxiety, anger, and body dissatisfaction.\n\nIn a study done at Old Dominion University, Thomas F. Cash, Julie R. Ancis and Melissa D. Strachan studied college women and their attitudes toward gender, feminist identity and body image. \"Relative to men, women are considerably more psychologically invested in their appearance. Moreover, women's poor evaluations of and stronger investments in their looks potentiate greater body-image dysphoria in women's daily lives.\" A contributing factor in this scenario that leads women to greater objectification of their bodies are the images that are seen throughout media. Women who are portrayed in the media often possess unattainable beauty. \"Furthermore, the social construct of femininity is partially tied to perceived beauty, as evinced by the 'what is beautiful sex-typed' stereotype.\" These internalized ideals along with the pursuit for this unattainable beauty of one's body image can lead to body dysmorphic disorder, body objectification, eating disorders, anxiety, depression and other related psychological difficulties.\n\nIn the same study from Arizona State University, it was said that the idea of beauty is generated from these media messages. \"Cultural messages about beauty (i.e. what it is, how it should be cultivated, and how it will be rewarded) are often implicitly conveyed through media representations of women.\"\n\nIn the study from Old Dominion University, the authors state the importance of research in this area. \"Given the centrality of body image in clinical and sub clinical eating disturbances that are so prevalent among women, research on gender and body image has substantial importance.\" Even though there is research being done, there is still much more work to be done to help individuals who struggle with their body image.\n\nThe link between body image and eating disorders is becoming increasingly prominent in the younger generations as the growth of social media and social influencers inhibits their perspective on their own bodies.\n\nTo combat unhealthy body image issues among women, in 2015, France passed a law requiring models to be declared healthy by a doctor to participate in fashion shows. It also requires re-touched images to be marked as such in magazines.\n\nWeight- The Psychosocial burden of childhood overweight and Obesity:\nChildren also have a hard time dealing with 'body image' and can face discrimination. According to (\"European Journal of Pediatrics\" 2017 ) \nAccording to research, It has shown that the psychological, social and behavioral consequences of childhood obesity shows that children who are overweight experience not only discrimination but overall body dissatisfaction, low self-esteem, social isolation and depression.\n\nPerceptions of races have drastically changed over the years dating all the way back to the medieval era referencing light and dark, good and evil. Hundreds of years later perceptions would be changed again with the Atlantic slave trade, which left ideas of idealism for Caucasians and a negative idea of any other race. Caucasian nationalists such as Goldstein also believed that all races originated from the 'white' race. With this extreme racism of the time the black body was studied, displayed and scrutinized for any minor difference. \"The ideas about beauty we contend with in the twenty- first century draw in part on very old ways of thinking about human bodies and African difference.\" In the 1960s the Black is Beautiful movement and Black Power movement took form and shook the world in a display of racial pride. Today's perceptions of different races has come a long way in bringing a positive mentality to racial body image but there are still some core issues in today's society.\n\nThe fashion industry is known for not being inclusive of more races in their runways and ad campaigns, and several studies that have been conducted prove that the lack of racial diversity can contribute to body image issues amongst non-white minorities. In one such experiment, conducted in 2003, 3 photographs of attractive white, black and Asian women were shown to a group of white, black and Asian students. The study concluded that Asian women thought that the photograph of the white woman was the most attractive, and reported high levels of body dissatisfaction. Such dissatisfaction may even cause these individuals to suffer psychologically due to the pressure to embody these ideals, and may result in them going through several means to change their physical appearance in order to match the Eurocentric idea of beauty.\n\nWeight loss is one such method. For instance, Mexican American women who have been attuned to mainstream US culture reported greater body dissatisfaction and have described their ideal body types to be similar to the white norm. In spite of the fact that certain ethnicities naturally have different body types, this ideal has led to disordered eating amongst Latinas.\n\nPlastic surgery is another method, and is especially popular in Asia for \"Westernizing\" facial features. Two of the most popular treatments are rhinoplasty (nose lifts), and blepharoplasty (eyelid lifts), which are done to make these features look more Caucasian.\n\nSkin lightening products are also prevalent in countries where non-white ethnicities are the majority, and the industry makes billions of dollars every year. In India alone, whitening products make up 45% of the skin care market. Plenty of these whitening cosmetics are known to have dangerous side effects due to the ingredients in them; hydroquinone, for instance, is known to cause irritation and leukemia while mercury is known to cause rashes and pigmentation.\n\nIn spite of these effects, industries like the fashion industry have not significantly featured women of color (and when they have, the women may have either been significantly \"whitewashed\" – with digitally lightened skin and hair – or may already have features that are considered \"white\").\n\nThe fashion industry believes that by advertising unattainable standards of beauty, they fuel a customer demand by \"creating a craving that can't be satisfied\". However, a study by Elle Canada has proven the exact opposite: products featured by models that accurately represent the consumer's race – as well as weight and age – will increase the consumer's willingness to purchase a product.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "46381353", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=46381353", "title": "Book of Fermoy", "text": "Book of Fermoy\n\nThe Book of Fermoy (, aka RIA MS 23 or the Book of Roche, \"leabhar de Róiste\") is a medieval Irish text dated to the 14th to 16th century AD.\n\nThe book was written in the Irish language in the 15th C. by several scribes. The 238 pages contain numerous tales, histories, and biographies. James Henthorn Todd acquired the work in 1858 - he suggested the title \"Book of Roche\" would be equally applicable to the work due to the large quantity of content relating to the history of the Roche Family of Fermoy; one \"David [Mór] son of Maurice son of John Roche\" is mentioned in the text as a patron of one set of scribes.\n\n"}
{"id": "28718220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28718220", "title": "Bundeskunstsammlung", "text": "Bundeskunstsammlung\n\nThe Bundeskunstsammlung (Sammlung zeitgenössischer Kunst der Bundesrepublik Deutschland) - The Federal Collection of Contemporary Art, is a collection of modern works of art held by the government of the Federal Republic of Germany. Based on the principle that creative arts play an important role in democratic society, it was founded in 1970 by Willy Brandt acting on a proposal by the then chairman of the German Federation of Artists. Although it contains works of Isa Genzken, Thomas Struth, Olafur Eliasson, Jonathan Monk, Georg Baselitz, Markus Lüpertz, A. R. Penck, Markus Oehlen, Gerhard Richter, Wolfgang Tillmans and others, the collection does not have a central, permanent home; instead, the works are exhibited in various museums and government offices throughout the country.\n"}
{"id": "2511731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2511731", "title": "Canadian Conservation Institute", "text": "Canadian Conservation Institute\n\nThe Canadian Conservation Institute (CCI) is a special operating agency of the federal Department of Canadian Heritage. CCI provides research, information, and services regarding the conservation and preservation of cultural artifacts. Materials and media it handles includes paper, textiles, metals, and glass, as well as electronic media, such as audio tape and compact discs. The CCI offices are located in the Ottawa suburb of Gloucester.\n\nThe CCI is recognized as a pioneer and leader in the conservation of cultural heritage in Canada. The CCI supports the heritage community in preserving Canada's heritage collections so they can be accessed by current and future generations. The CCI is charged with the duty \"to promote the proper care and perservation of Canada's moveable cultural heritage, and to advance the practice, science, and technology of conservation.\"\n\nThe CCI originated within the National Gallery of Canada in 1957, as its Conservation and Scientific Research Division under the leadership of Dr. Nathan Stolow. In 1964, the division was granted greater autonomy and became the National Conservation Research Laboratory (\"NCRL\"). As a result of its success, in 1972 the NCRL was split off from the National Gallery of Canada and was renamed the Canadian Conservation Institute with Dr. Stolow as its first Director General. It now operates as an agency of the federal government of Canada, currently under the auspices of the Department of Canadian Heritage.\n\nThe CCI is primarily a research organization, but provides education and services on conservation and restoration-related matters. The CCI now promotes the proper care and preservation of Canada's cultural heritage and to advance the practice, science, and technology of conservation. The Institute has worked closely with hundreds of Canadian museums, art galleries, archives, libraries, historic sites, academic institutions, and other heritage organizations to help them better preserve their collections. The primary role of CCI's clients is to acquire, conserve, research, communicate, and exhibit permanent heritage collections that are accessible to the Canadian public for purposes of study, education, and enjoyment. As a Special Operating Agency of the Department of Canadian Heritage, CCI has widened its scope of activities and now markets its services and products around the world. The CCI was included amongst other architecturally interesting and historically significant buildings in Doors Open Ottawa, held June 2, 2012.\n\nThe following are but some of the services CCI provides:\n\n\nCCI also provides project-specific teams for conservation, scientific, and testing projects. Its Paper Group works with archives and libraries in preserving and restoring their collections. Research conducted by the Paper Group includes paper bleaching, enzyme use, washing, and de-acidification. The CCI also self-publishes a variety of materials related to its work. As well, each year it publishes the \"CCI, the Journal of the Canadian Conservation Institute\". With a staff of about 80 to 100, the CCI has treated more than 13,000 objects for the heritage community, has published hundreds of scientific papers, and has distributed in excess of one million publications. The Institute responds to at least 2,000 requests for assistance annually. Working together in well-equipped, fully secure, climate-controlled laboratories, conservators, chemists, engineers, biologists, and other professionals handle projects ranging from information inquiries to complex treatments and research.\n\n"}
{"id": "7230089", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7230089", "title": "Cardinal Lamberto", "text": "Cardinal Lamberto\n\nCardinal Lamberto is a fictional character appearing in \"The Godfather Part III\". He is portrayed by Raf Vallone.\n\nLamberto is a cardinal in the Roman Catholic Church, and the man favoured to succeed the terminally ill Pope Paul VI as head of the Church. He is visited by Michael Corleone on the advice of Don Tommasino, and Michael tells him of his swindle at the hands of corrupt Vatican bank officials Frederick Keinszig, Licio Lucchesi, and Archbishop Gilday. Lamberto encourages Michael to confess his sins; Michael is initially reluctant, but eventually gives in under the Cardinal's gentle prodding. He breaks down in tears when confessing that he ordered the murder of his brother Fredo. Upon the conclusion of the confession, Lamberto tells Michael that he deserves to suffer for his terrible sins, yet absolves him and tells him he still has a chance for redemption.\n\nUpon the death of Paul VI, Lamberto is elected the new Pontiff; he takes the name John Paul I upon his accession. A moral, thoroughly honest man, he immediately calls for an investigation into the activities of the Vatican Bank and requests a meeting with Keinszig, the Bank's chief accountant. However, Keinszig has left Rome with a large sum of money and several documents. Fearing that their corruption will be exposed, Keinszig, Lucchesi, and Gilday plot to murder the Pope. Gilday poisons the Pontiff's tea, killing him in his sleep.\n\nThe character of Lamberto and the film's depiction of the events which led to his murder are based upon one of the conspiracy theories surrounding the sudden death of the real-life Pope John Paul I, Albino Luciani. Like the Lamberto character, Luciani was discovered dead in his bed in 1978, 33 days after his election to the papacy. Various theories, such as the one outlined in David Yallop's 1984 book, \"In God's Name\", have suggested that Luciani was murdered because he was investigating and planning reforms for the Vatican Bank, in light of the Banco Ambrosiano scandal.\n\n"}
{"id": "5158920", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5158920", "title": "Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies", "text": "Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies\n\nThe Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies (CUCS) was founded in 1981, as a joint creation between the University of Manitoba and St. Andrew's College. The mission of the Centre is to create, preserve and communicate knowledge dealing with Ukrainian Canadian culture and scholarship. It is located in Winnipeg, Manitoba.\n\nThe Centre for Ukrainian Canadian Studies, provides undergraduate courses and interdisciplinary programs of study in areas relating to Ukrainian Canadian culture. The Centre also encourages and promotes research and scholarship in all areas relating to Ukrainian Canadian Heritage Studies.\n\nThe Centre offers nineteen courses in such areas as Ukrainian language, Ukrainian Canadian literature and folklore, the history of Ukraine and of the Ukrainians in Canada, the geography of Ukraine, the government and politics of Ukraine, Eastern Christianity, Byzantine art, and the Ukrainian arts in Canada. These courses can be taken singly, for general interest, as options, or as components of programs in various departments in the Faculty of Arts or in the School of Art.\n\nFor students interested in specializing in the area, the Centre offers interdisciplinary programs in Ukrainian Canadian Heritage Studies leading to a Bachelor of Arts degree with a general major, an advanced major, or a minor in this field. The University of Manitoba is the only university in Canada which offers undergraduate degree programs in Ukrainian Canadian Heritage Studies.\n\nThe Centre offers courses on the University of Manitoba campus, and at off-campus locations in Winnipeg. From time to time, the Centre is also able to offer courses at other locations in Manitoba and through teleconference, as well as specialized programs during the summer.\n\nAlthough the Centre does not offer graduate courses, it is possible to pursue graduate work in Ukrainian Canadian Heritage Studies at the M.A. and Ph.D. levels through Interdisciplinary Programs in the Faculty of Graduate Studies at the University of Manitoba. Several fellowships are available.\n\nIndividual scholars are encouraged to pursue their own research agenda within a Ukrainian Canadian context. Topics of current interest include an exploration of Ukrainian Canadian history, the occurrence of Ukrainian Canadiana within North American popular culture, explorations of Ukrainian Canadian arts including folklore, fine arts, and literature, issues in genealogy, and the study of music both popular and classical) with a Ukrainian Canadian focus.\n\nAn additional new direction is the development of an online courses on Ukrainian Canadian folklore.\n\nThe Centre, since 2002, has held a bi-annual Tarnawecky Distinguished Lecture program at the University of Manitoba. This program is intended to bring academics and experts as speakers to the University.\n\nThe acting director, since 2016, is Dr. Orest Cap.\n"}
{"id": "38069828", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38069828", "title": "Charlotte Shakespeare", "text": "Charlotte Shakespeare\n\nCharlotte Shakespeare was a professional, non-profit theatre company in Charlotte, North Carolina. The company specialized in intimate and accessible performances of traditional and modern classics, with an emphasis on the plays of William Shakespeare and with a mission of presenting plays \"that reflect timeless truths about the human condition and honor Shakespeare’s genius for storytelling and language\".\n\nThe company was founded by Elise Wilkinson and Joe Copley in 2006 under the name Collaborative Arts Theatre. It was granted status as a 501(c)(3) non-profit organization in 2008. The name was changed to Charlotte Shakespeare in 2012. Charlotte Shakespeare has never had a performance venue of its own. In its first two years productions took place in a tavern, in a series of apartments, and on the Green. Since that time all plays have been produced in theaters at Spirit Square or on The Green. The company went on hiatus in the summer of 2015 and has not reopened.\n\n2012 Season\n\n2011 Season\n\n2010 Season\n\n2009 Season\n\n2008 Season\n\n2007 Season\n\n2006 Season\n\nEach summer Charlotte Shakespeare produced the Charlotte Shakespeare Festival which began in June with a show presented outdoors on The Green, an uptown pocket park. \"Charlotte\" Magazine described the annual return of Shakespeare on the Green as, \"one of the best cultural gifts Charlotte will get all year\". Admission was free and the company depended on voluntary donations. A second show was presented in August at Spirit Square. Most productions were from the Shakespeare canon, but an exception was made in 2011 when the outdoor summer play was Tartuffe by Moliere.\n\nThe Metrolina Theatre Association (MTA) is a Charlotte organization which gives awards each year to support and advocate for local theatre, and these awards are a major source of public recognition for theatres, shows, and individuals. A selected list of MTA awards won by Collaborative Arts is shown below.\n\nCreative Loafing (CL) is a publisher of newsweeklies and their associated websites focusing on local affairs, including arts and entertainment. A selected list of CL awards won by Collaborative Arts is shown below.\n\n"}
{"id": "42431426", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42431426", "title": "Conclusion (book)", "text": "Conclusion (book)\n\nIn a non-fiction book, a conclusion is an ending section which states the concluding ideas and concepts of the preceding writing. This generally follows the body or perhaps an afterword, and the conclusion may be followed by an epilogue, outro, postscript, appendix/addendum, glossary, bibliography, index, errata, or a colophon. Aristotle, in \"The Rhetoric\", tells us a good writer should do this in the conclusion: \"make the audience well-disposed towards ourselves and ill-disposed to our opponent.\" It's a good opportunity to make inferences or predictions, or to ask the audience to consider what would happen if they do not accept our point of view by making a connection to society in general.\n\n"}
{"id": "39783938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39783938", "title": "Crak!", "text": "Crak!\n\nCrak! (sometimes Crack!) is a 1963 pop art lithograph by Roy Lichtenstein in his comic book style of using Ben-Day dots and a text balloon. It was used in marketing materials for one of Lichtenstein's early shows. It is one of several of his works related to military art and monocular vision.\n\nWhen Lichtenstein had his first solo show at The Leo Castelli Gallery in New York City in February 1962, it sold out before opening. The exhibition included \"Engagement Ring\", \"Blam\" and \"The Refrigerator\". The show ran from February 10 through March 3, 1962. After a west coast exhibition at Ferus Gallery in Los Angeles from April 1–27, 1963, Lichtenstein had his second solo exhibition at the Leo Castelli Gallery from September 28 – October 24, 1963 that included \"Whaam!\", \"Drowning Girl\", \"Torpedo...Los!\", \"Baseball Manager\", \"In the Car\", and \"Conversation\".\n\nNamed for its onomatopoeic graphic text, \"Crak!\" is an offset lithograph on lightweight, white wove paper. According to the Lichtenstein Foundation, it was a marketing poster that \"was published to announce Lichtenstein's exhibition at Leo Castelli Gallery, September 28 [–] October 24, 1963.\" The foundation notes that the work is sometimes dated 1964 with numbered impressions that are inscribed reflecting that date.\nThe screen-printed poster image presents a beret-clad woman shooting a rifle. Lichtenstein recomposed the comic book source — from a story written by Bob Haney and illustrated by Jack Abel in \"Star Spangled War Stories\" #102 (Apr./May 1962) — by replacing the mound of sand with what seems to be a stack of sandbags. He also isolated the figure by cropping the foreground and background elements.\n\nMonocular vision is the motif in which the subject is \"depicted frontally in such a way as to expose both eyes to the viewer, yet which has one eye closed or otherwise obscured\" and not those in which the subject is depicted in profile. The main subject has one eye opened and one eye closed, which relates to a pervasive theme of monocularity in Lichtenstein's art with works such as \"Torpedo...Los!\" and \"I Can See the Whole Room...and There's Nobody in It!\". The work also is related to Lichtenstein's theme of \"machine and embodied vision\" as exhibited in works such as \"Okay Hot-Shot, Okay!\", \"Bratatat!\", and \"Jet Pilot\".\n\n"}
{"id": "52138177", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52138177", "title": "Daniel Landau", "text": "Daniel Landau\n\nDaniel Landau (; born in 1973) is a media artist, lecturer and researcher.\n\nDaniel Landau was born and raised in Jerusalem.\nLandau completed his Master’s degree at the Royal Conservatory of The Hague. During his studies, Landau wrote music for Dutch contemporary music ensembles, such as: Nieuw Ensemble, Orkest de Volharding, Slagwerkgroep Den Haag, performing with his works at concert halls and festivals such as - The Concertgebouw, Paradiso.\n\nIn 2001, Landau established the art collective – BZAZ Foundation – in which they created full-length media shows. These shows toured in Germany, Hungary, Belgium, Mexico, Spain, England and Israel, receiving positive critic by the media and the audiences.\n\nLandau lived in the Netherlands for ten years. In 2006, Landau returned to Israel. He started to work on a performance-platform based on projection and movement.\n\nIn 2008, in collaboration with artists, dancers, engineers and designers, Landau created the stage piece One-Dimensional Man. This show was a British-Israeli production. The show was a direct continuation of Landau’s interest in the complex relationship between the human body and technology. The show took place at the Suzanne Dellal Center, receiving positive reviews. Landau created a series of works called ‘Reside’, using the docu-performance platform that he had established.\n\nIn 2014, Landau established the Oh-Man, Oh-Machine platform through which he initiate international conferences, workshops, salon meetings and a research group intended to promote a techno-social critical discourse through the philosophical framework of Posthumanism. Landau gives lectures on his work in Israel and internationally. In 2013-2015, he served as Head of the Digital Media Studies at The Midrasha Faculty of the Arts, Beit Berl Academic College, Israel.\n\nHe is currently serving as a senior research fellow at the Advanced Virtuality Lab (AVL) at Interdisciplinary Center Herzliya, Israel. He was invited to present his works at festivals and museums in Israel and overseas, including: The Hamburg Symphony Orchestra, The Radio Filharmonisch Orkest, Maison européenne de la photographie in Paris, the Centro-Historico Festival (Mexico), Bath International Music Festival (England), Kaserne (Switzerland), The Bartok Festival (Hungary) and The Nakanojo Biennale (Japan).\n\nIn 2017, Daniel Landau taught the winter semester at the Design and Media department in UCLA.\n\nSince 2016 Landau is pursuing his PhD at the Aalto University Media Lab, Helsinki.\nDaniel Landau lectures worldwide in major universities and various conferences and festivals, among others: Stanford University, California \n\n, California Institute of Technology\n\n, San Diego State University\n\n, Shenzhen Fair, China\n\n, RIXC Festival, Latvia\n, Israel Society of Biological Psychiatry\n\n, B3 Biennale, Frankfurt\n\n, Haifa Film Festival, Israel\n\nand the Czech National Library of Technology\n\nDaniel Landau is also involved in Israeli start-ups as a consultant and creative director.\nPersonal\n\nHis sister, Sigalit Landau, is an Israeli artist.\nLandau is married to Michal Openheim Landau, a musician, composer and vocal teacher. They live in Tel Aviv.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "170594", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=170594", "title": "Dialogue", "text": "Dialogue\n\nDialogue (sometimes spelled dialog in American English) is a written or spoken conversational exchange between two or more people, and a literary and theatrical form that depicts such an exchange. As a narrative, philosophical or didactic device, it is chiefly associated in the West with the Socratic dialogue as developed by Plato, but antecedents are also found in other traditions including Indian literature.\n\nIn the 20th century, philosophical treatments of dialogue emerged from thinkers including Mikhail Bakhtin, Paulo Freire, Martin Buber, and David Bohm. Although diverging in many details, these thinkers have articulated a holistic concept of dialogue as a multi-dimensional, dynamic and context-dependent process of creating meaning. Educators such as Freire and Ramón Flecha have also developed a body of theory and techniques for using egalitarian dialogue as a pedagogical tool.\n\nThe term dialogue stems from the Greek διάλογος (\"dialogos\", conversation); its roots are διά (\"dia\": through) and λόγος (\"logos\": speech, reason). The first extant author who uses the term is Plato, in whose works it is closely associated with the art of dialectic. Latin took over the word as \"dialogus\".\n\nDialogue as a genre in the Middle East and Asia dates back to ancient works, such as Sumerian disputations preserved in copies from the late third millennium BC, Rigvedic dialogue hymns and the \"Mahabharata\".\n\nIn the East, In 13th century Japan, dialogue was used in important philosophical works. In the 1200s, Nichiren Daishonin wrote some of his important writings in dialogue form, describing a meeting between two characters in order to present his argument and theory, such as in \"Conversation between a Sage and an Unenlightened Man\" (The Writings of Nichiren Daishonin 1: pp.99-140, dated around 1256), and \"On Establishing the Correct Teaching for the Peace of the Land\" (Ibid., pp.6-30; dated 1260), while in other writings he used a question and answer format, without the narrative scenario, such as in \"Questions and Answers about Embracing the Lotus Sutra\" (Ibid., pp.55-67, possibly from 1263). The sage or person answering the questions was understood as the author.\n\nIn the West, Plato (c. 437 BC – c. 347 BC) has commonly been credited with the systematic use of dialogue as an independent literary form. Ancient sources indicate, however, that the Platonic dialogue had its foundations in the \"mime\", which the Sicilian poets Sophron and Epicharmus had cultivated half a century earlier. These works, admired and imitated by Plato, have not survived and we have only the vaguest idea of how they may have been performed. The \"Mimes\" of Herodas, which were found in a papyrus in 1891, give some idea of their character.\n\nPlato further simplified the form and reduced it to pure argumentative conversation, while leaving intact the amusing element of character-drawing. By about 400 BC he had perfected the Socratic dialogue. All his extant writings, except the \"Apology\" and Epistles, use this form.\n\nFollowing Plato, the dialogue became a major literary genre in antiquity, and several important works both in Latin and in Greek were written. Soon after Plato, Xenophon wrote his own \"Symposium\"; also, Aristotle is said to have written several philosophical dialogues in Plato's style (of which only fragments survive).\n\nTwo French writers of eminence borrowed the title of Lucian's most famous collection; both Fontenelle (1683) and Fénelon (1712) prepared \"Dialogues des morts\" (\"Dialogues of the Dead\"). Contemporaneously, in 1688, the French philosopher Nicolas Malebranche published his \"Dialogues on Metaphysics and Religion\", thus contributing to the genre's revival in philosophic circles. In English non-dramatic literature the dialogue did not see extensive use until Berkeley employed it, in 1713, for his treatise, \"Three Dialogues between Hylas and Philonous\". His contemporary, the Scottish philosopher David Hume wrote \"Dialogues Concerning Natural Religion.\" A prominent 19th-century example of literary dialogue was Landor's \"Imaginary Conversations\" (1821–1828).\n\nIn Germany, Wieland adopted this form for several important satirical works published between 1780 and 1799. In Spanish literature, the \"Dialogues\" of Valdés (1528) and those on \"Painting\" (1633) by Vincenzo Carducci are celebrated. Italian writers of collections of dialogues, following Plato's model, include Torquato Tasso (1586), Galileo (1632), Galiani (1770), Leopardi (1825), and a host of others.\n\nIn the 19th century, the French returned to the original application of dialogue. The inventions of \"Gyp\", of Henri Lavedan, and of others, which tell a mundane anecdote wittily and maliciously in conversation, would probably present a close analogy to the lost mimes of the early Sicilian poets. English writers including Anstey Guthrie also adopted the form, but these dialogues seem to have found less of a popular following among the English than their counterparts written by French authors.\n\nThe Platonic dialogue, as a distinct genre which features Socrates as a speaker and one or more interlocutors discussing some philosophical question, experienced something of a rebirth in the 20th century. Authors who have recently employed it include George Santayana, in his eminent \"Dialogues in Limbo\" (1926, 2nd ed. 1948; this work also includes such historical figures as Alcibiades, Aristippus, Avicenna, Democritus, and Dionysius the Younger as speakers). Also Edith Stein and Iris Murdoch used the dialogue form. Stein imagined a dialogue between Edmund Husserl (phenomenologist) and Thomas Aquinas (metaphysical realist). Murdoch included not only Socrates and Alcibiades as interlocutors in her work \"Acastos: Two Platonic Dialogues\" (1986), but featured a young Plato himself as well. More recently Timothy Williamson wrote \"Tetralogue\", a philosophical exchange on a train between four people with radically different epistemological views.\n\nMartin Buber assigns dialogue a pivotal position in his theology. His most influential work is titled \"I and Thou\". Buber cherishes and promotes dialogue not as some purposive attempt to reach conclusions or express mere points of view, but as the very prerequisite of authentic relationship between man and man, and between man and God. Buber's thought centers on \"true dialogue\", which is characterized by openness, honesty, and mutual commitment.\n\nThe Second Vatican Council placed a major emphasis on dialogue with the World. Most of the Council's documents involve some kind of dialogue : dialogue with other religions (\"Nostra aetate\"), dialogue with other Christians (Unitatis Redintegratio), dialogue with modern society (\"Gaudium et spes\") and dialogue with political authorities (Dignitatis Humanae). However, in the English translations of these texts, \"dialogue\" was used to translate two Latin words with distinct meanings, \"colloquium\" (\"discussion\") and \"dialogus\" (\"dialogue\"). The choice of terminology appears to have been strongly influenced by Buber's thought.\n\nThe physicist David Bohm originated a related form of dialogue where a group of people talk together in order to explore their assumptions of thinking, meaning, communication, and social effects. This group consists of ten to thirty people who meet for a few hours regularly or a few continuous days. In a Bohm dialogue, dialoguers agree to leave behind debate tactics that attempt to convince and, instead, talk from their own experience on subjects that are improvised on the spot.\n\nIn his influential works, Russian philosopher and semiotician Mikhail Bakhtin provided a linguistic methodology to define the dialogue, its nature and meaning:\n\"Dialogic relations\" have a specific nature: they can be reduced neither to the purely logical (even if dialectical) nor to the purely linguistic (compositional-syntactic) They are possible only between complete utterances of various speaking subjects... Where there is no word and no language, there can be no dialogic relations; they cannot exist among objects or logical quantities (concepts, judgments, and so forth). Dialogic relations presuppose a language, but they do not reside within the system of language. They are impossible among elements of a language.\n\nThe Brazilian educationalist Paulo Freire, known for developing popular education, advanced dialogue as a type of pedagogy. Freire held that dialogued communication allowed students and teachers to learn from one another in an environment characterized by respect and equality. A great advocate for oppressed peoples, Freire was concerned with praxis—action that is informed and linked to people's values. Dialogued pedagogy was not only about deepening understanding; it was also about making positive changes in the world: to make it better.\n\nDialogue is used as a practice in a variety of settings, from education to business. Influential theorists of dialogal education include Paulo Freire and Ramon Flecha.\n\nIn the United States, an early form of dialogic learning emerged in the Great Books movement of the early to mid-20th century, which emphasized egalitarian dialogues in small classes as a way of understanding the foundational texts of the Western canon. Institutions that continue to follow a version of this model include the Great Books Foundation, Shimer College in Chicago, and St. John's College in Annapolis and Santa Fe.\n\nEgalitarian dialogue is a concept in dialogic learning. It may be defined as a dialogue in which contributions are considered according to the validity of their reasoning, instead of according to the status or position of power of those who make them.\n\nStructured dialogue represents a class of dialogue practices developed as a means of orienting the dialogic discourse toward problem understanding and consensual action. Whereas most traditional dialogue practices are unstructured or semi-structured, such conversational modes have been observed as insufficient for the coordination of multiple perspectives in a problem area. A disciplined form of dialogue, where participants agree to follow a dialogue framework or a facilitator, enables groups to address complex shared problems.\n\nAleco Christakis (who created \"structured dialogue design\") and John N. Warfield (who created \"science of generic design\") were two of the leading developers of this school of dialogue. The rationale for engaging structured dialogue follows the observation that a rigorous bottom-up democratic form of dialogue must be structured to ensure that a sufficient variety of stakeholders represents the problem system of concern, and that their voices and contributions are equally balanced in the dialogic process.\n\nStructured dialogue is employed for complex problems including peacemaking (e.g., Civil Society Dialogue project in Cyprus) and indigenous community development., as well as government and social policy formulation.\n\nIn one deployment, structured dialogue is (according to a European Union definition) \"a means of mutual communication between governments and administrations including EU institutions and young people. The aim is to get young people's contribution towards the formulation of policies relevant to young peoples lives.\" The application of structured dialogue requires one to differentiate the meanings of discussion and deliberation.\n\nGroups such as Worldwide Marriage Encounter and Retrouvaille use dialogue as a communication tool for married couples. Both groups teach a dialogue method that helps couples learn more about each other in non-threatening postures, which helps to foster growth in the married relationship.\n\nThe German philosopher and classicist emphasizes the original term of dialogue, which goes back to Heraclitus: \"The logos [...] answers to the question of the world as a whole and how everything in it is connected. Logos is the one principle at work, that gives order to the manifold in the world.\" For Dietz dialogue (gr. dia-logos) means \"a kind of thinking, acting and speaking, which the logos \"passes through\"\" Therefore, talking to each other is merely one part of \"dialogue\". Acting dialogically means directing someone's attention to another one and to reality at the same time.\n\nAgainst this background and together with Thomas Kracht, Karl-Martin Dietz developed what he termed \"\" as a form of organizational management. In several German enterprises and organisations it replaced the traditional human resource management, e.g. in the German drugstore chain dm-drogerie markt.\n\nSeparately, and earlier to Thomas Kracht and Karl-Martin Dietz, Rens van Loon published multiple works on the concept of Dialogical Leadership, starting with a chapter in the Dutch book, The Organization as Story (2003). Van Loon is the chair of Dialogical Leadership at Tilburg University in the Netherlands, Department of Humanities and Ethics.\n\nMoral dialogues are social processes which allow societies or communities to form new shared moral understandings. Moral dialogues have the capacity to modify the moral positions of a sufficient number of people to generate widespread approval for actions and policies that previously had little support or were considered morally inappropriate by many. Communitarian philosopher Amitai Etzioni has developed an analytical framework which—modeling historical examples—outlines the reoccurring components of moral dialogues. Elements of moral dialogues include: establishing a moral baseline; sociological dialogue starters which initiate the process of developing new shared moral understandings; the linking of multiple groups' discussions in the form of “megalogues”; distinguishing the distinct attributes of the moral dialogue (apart from rational deliberations or culture wars); dramatization to call widespread attention to the issue at hand; and, closure through the establishment of a new shared moral understanding. Moral dialogues allow people of a given community to determine what is morally acceptable to a majority of people within the community.\n\n"}
{"id": "1973422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1973422", "title": "Emily Gilmore", "text": "Emily Gilmore\n\nEmily Gilmore is a fictional character who appears in the American comedy-drama television series \"Gilmore Girls\" (2000 – 2007) and its revival \"\" (2016) as the matriarch of the eponymous family. Portrayed by actress Kelly Bishop, the character was created by series creator Amy Sherman-Palladino in order to add a tragic element to the show's light-hearted nature. Emily has had a complicated relationship with her daughter Lorelai ever since the character runs away at age 17 to raise her newborn daughter Rory on her own. They remain estranged for several years until Lorelai asks her parents to help pay for Rory's schooling, to which Emily agrees on the condition that her daughter and granddaughter visit them for dinner every Friday evening.\n\nOne of the show's central storylines, Emily's relationship with Lorelai remains strained for the majority of the series, improving incrementally over time. Bishop, who prefers portraying acerbic over nice women, based her performance on her own grandmother. In \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\", Emily, recently widowed after the passing away of Richard, continues to mourn his death from which she struggles to move on. The death of her co-star and close friend Edward Herrmann, who portrayed Richard, was written into the revival; Bishop used her character's storyline about adjusting to life without her husband to cope with her own grief over Herrmann's passing, as well as drawing upon inspiration from the death of her own mother. The actress nearly did not reprise her role in the revival due to her own husband's health at the time.\n\nBishop's performances in both the original series and its sequel have been positively received by television critics. Critics and audiences were initially divided over the character's personality, debating her unlikeability and whether or not she is a bad mother. However, their opinions towards Emily have softened in retrospect, growing to sympathize with the character and defend her as one of the show's most complex characters who truly cares for the well-being of her family members. Despite being accused of racism in regards to the way in which she treats her maids, Emily's arc in \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\", in which she takes on a more central role, has been widely acclaimed by critics and fans alike, becoming a fan favorite and experiencing renewed popularity. Critics and fans have since dubbed her the \"third Gilmore girl\", after Lorelai and Rory.\n\nThe wealthy matriarch of the Gilmore family, Emily lives with her husband Richard (Edward Herrmann), a successful insurance consultant, in a mansion in Hartford, Connecticut. Her only daughter Lorelai (Lauren Graham) had run away from home as a teenager to raise her daughter Rory (Alexis Bledel) on her own, forcing Emily to remain estranged from both her daughter and granddaughter for several years until Lorelai desperately asks her parents to help pay for Rory's admission into Chilton Preparatory School. Emily agrees to loan Lorelai the money required on the condition that both she and Rory visit her and Richard at their home for dinner every Friday evening. Having had a strained relationship with Lorelai ever since she decided she would be raising Rory without her parents or then-boyfriend Christopher Hayden (David Sutcliffe), Emily wants to spend as much time with Rory as possible, partially to ensure that her granddaughter receives the opportunities her mother never did. She uses Chilton as an opportunity to forge somewhat of a \"normal\" relationship between herself, Lorelai and Rory. Their arrangement continues when Rory graduates from Chilton and enrolls at Yale University, her grandfather's alma mater. Emily and Richard separate at one point during the series over a series of heated disagreements, but eventually reconcile in favor of renewing their vows.\n\nEmily struggles to adjust to her husband's recent death, to whom she had been married for 50 years. She is furious with Lorelai after she gives an unflattering speech during Richard's funeral, thus increasing the rift in their relationship. Emily tricks Lorelai into attending therapy with her in attempt to mend their relationship (where Emily reveals she is also upset over a malicious letter she insists Lorelai sent her several years ago, although she denies it), with mostly unfruitful results. Emily is only able to forgive Lorelai after she calls her mother to share with her the time Richard comforted her by taking her to a see a movie after she was humiliated in school. At the end of the revival, Emily sells their mansion because it constantly reminds her of Richard's death, moving to Nantucket, Massachusetts to live full-time in what was once her and Richard's vacation home. She also quits the Daughters of the American Revolution (DAR), and starts working at a whaling museum as a docent. The identity of who sent Emily the letter remains undisclosed.\n\nCreator Amy Sherman-Palladino originally pitched \"Gilmore Girls\" to The WB as a series about Lorelai and Rory Gilmore, a young mother and daughter duo whose close relationship is more similar to that of a pair of best friends as opposed to family members, but the show's concept was not fully realized until Sherman-Palladino introduced the idea of a third, older generation of Gilmores to the storyline: Emily and Richard Gilmore, Lorelai's wealthy, conservative parents. The creator explained that \"Lorelai is made because of her experience with her family, and Emily is Emily because Lorelai left\", believing Emily's relationship with Lorelai \"added a layer of conflict that allows you to do the comedy, but at the base of it, it’s almost a tragedy.” One of the show's central conflicts is drawn from the fact that Emily is a \"confused\" character in several ways, particularly in regards to her complicated relationship with Lorelai. \"Gilmore Girls\"' original main source conflict revolves around \"the generational battle between\" the domineering Emily and Lorelai, her free-spirited daughter. Secretly, the character is proud of her daughter's accomplishments but has continued to harbor resentment towards her ever since she gets pregnant at age 16, for which Emily has never quite forgiven her.The pilot episode begins with some form of dramatic change altering the lives of Emily, Lorelai and Rory. While Lorelai, for the good of her daughter, must reluctantly allow her parents back into the life she deliberately built for herself without them, Emily's life suddenly changes from barely having a relationship with either her daughter or granddaughter for several years to manipulating their financial situation so that she can be involved in both of their lives for the first time. Sherman-Palladino strongly felt that \"Gilmore Girls\" would be successful after watching the pilot for the first time, in which Emily, Lorelai and Rory experience their first of several Friday-night dinners. Subsequently, Emily's relationship with Lorelai would be explored in virtually all of the show's episodes, establishing itself as one of the dramedy's \"major plot points\". The \"New York Post\"'s David K. Li summarized Emily's role in the series as \"a cold-water reminder of what some mothers are really like.\" \"The Washington Post\" contributor Jenny Rogers believes Emily's was written in a way that \"was supposed to drive [audiences] crazy\", similar to the way in which Lorelai reacts.\n\nThe character spends many early episodes behaving as though not much time has passed since Lorelai ran away. Although initially created to resemble a \"complex\" villain, fans believe that Emily appears to grow \"softer\" towards the second and third seasons, when in fact the writers only \"explained [her] a little better\" by evolving the character into a \"more complex\" version of herself. As \"emotionally guarded\" individuals, both mother and daughter channel their feelings towards each other in different ways. While Emily typically avoids the topic of Lorelai's upbringing, Lorelai refuses to acknowledge how abandoned she felt by her mother, \"hid[ing] her feelings behind a rapidfire series of jokes.\" The character continues to evolve into a more complicated character as the series progresses. The first season episode \"Emily in Wonderland\", in which Emily visits Stars Hollow for the first time and wears a pair of sneakers at Rory's behest, offers an early example of the character's willingness to change in order to spend more time with and please Rory. However, her relationship with Lorelai remains strained well into the fifth season; the creator explained that she retained this dynamic because \"In life, you never solve your family issues ... You take a few steps forward and feel like 'We're communicating better!' Then something happens and you're like, 'Why didn't I see that coming?\" Thus, they remain \"firmly ... in their estranged battleground.\" At one point Sherman-Palladino had deliberated introducing a woman slightly older than Lorelai – a widow who approaches Emily for help on being \"more than just beautiful\" in the wake of her wealthy husband's death – who becomes something of a surrogate daughter to Emily. This character and related storyline about Emily \"finally ha[ving] a daughter figure who wants to be like her\" would have augmented the conflict in Emily's relationship with Lorelai. Sherman-Palladino identified Emily as one of her favorite characters to write for.\n\nThe tense relationship between Emily, \"a wealthy mother of a certain generation and class,\" and Lorelai is one of the series' primary components. Although much of Emily's storyline is directly related to her relationship with Lorelai, the character has endured complex situations on her own during the show's run, particularly in regards to the fact that she is \"a woman of a certain generation who had long tethered her future to little other than her husband.\" The character sometimes struggles to determine \"How a woman of her age and position should fill her days\", sometimes \"play[ing] Emily’s devotion to her husband for ridicule,\" according to Rogers.As one of the show's higher class characters, Emily and Paris Gellar, Rory's schoolmate and friend, share \"similarly ridiculous lines of dialogue.\" Much like Lorelai and Rory, Emily speaks \"in machine-gun like bursts of dialogue\".\n\nEmily is portrayed by American actress Kelly Bishop. Before being cast as both a mother and grandmother in \"Gilmore Girls\", Bishop had played mothers in several successful films, namely \"Dirty Dancing\" (1987), \"Private Parts\" (1997) and \"Wonder Boys\" (2000). Prior to receiving the \"Gilmore Girls\" script, Bishop had turned down several sitcom pilots, few of which she found promising; the majority of them were Italian roles due to the popularity of \"The Sopranos\" at the time. Upon reading the \"Gilmore Girls\" script for the first time, Bishop immediately found its dialogue \"deeply funny\" and interesting, in addition to appreciating the way in which the show depicts different mother-daughter relationships. She then expressed particular interest in the role of Emily to her agent before preparing to audition, recalling that \"I ... really did my homework on that audition because I wanted to deliver what I thought Amy wanted and what I heard in my head.\" Casting directors Jill Anthony and Julie Mossberg selected Bishop, whose performance immediately impressed Sherman-Palladino and producer Gavin Polone, from an assortment of actresses who had auditioned for the role during a casting session in New York.\n\nThroughout her filmograypy, Bishop tends to play \"acerbic\" characters more than \"nice\" ones the latter of which she finds rather \"dull.\" Bishop enjoys portraying \"nasty, rich women\" such as Emily because she \"can’t stand them\", and thus attempts to make the character seem \"as awful as possible.” Although she enjoys playing the role, Bishop admitted that Emily is not the kind of person she would enjoy being friends with in real life because of how difficult she can be, her stubbornness and self-consciousness; she based her performance on women she has met in New York, Florida and Hollywood, in addition to several wealthy women. However, Bishop described her character as \"funny ... if you don’t have to live with her\". Despite not liking Emily as a character, Bishop \"understand[s] where she’s coming form (sic)\" as a mother. The actress also identified Emily's honesty among her more positive attributes, saying, \"I don't recall ever doing an episode where she was really lying to anyone or sneaking around. She wasn't ever doing anything deceptive, she was just straight-on.\" Emily's personality also reminds Bishop of her own grandmother, from whom she drew inspiration. Bishop also believes Emily was based on former United States First Ladies Nancy Reagan and Jackie Kennedy. Overall, the actress identified her character's unpleasant nature as \"the fun [part] of playing her\", and refuses to apologize for her behavior.\n\nBishop has always been confident in the material Sherman-Palladino writes for Emily, explaining, \"I’ve never had one moment ... that I’ve looked down [at a script] and gone, ‘No, she wouldn’t say that,'”. Throughout her entire time working on \"Gilmore Girls\", Bishop refused to probe Sherman-Palladino for information or secrets regarding her character's upcoming storylines, preferring to \"open the scripts as if it was a present\". Although Bishop sometimes found Emily's behavior surprising and difficult to defend, she usually agreed with the way in which her character is written, believing her and Sherman-Palladino \"see eye to eye completely on this characterfrie.\" Bishop wanted to analyze and learn exactly why Emily is the way she is. The actress found it helpful to \"flesh out\" her character by providing her with her own backstory, which was often coincidentally similar to what Sherman-Palladino and the writers had envisioned. Sherman-Palladino would often write an expository piece for the character that Bishop had thought of herself years before, remarking, \"well, we are so on the same page.\" Bishop often asked Graham to explain certain pop culture references she had difficulty understanding. The actress credits her work on \"Gilmore Girls\" with teaching her about camera work, explaining, \"I’d done all that stuff before. But having it day after day, year after year, being able to work the set and work the camera, it developed my technique and it’s an exercise that you just have to keep repeating\". Bishop considers the fourth season episode \"The Reigning Lorelai\", in which Emily learns that her late mother-in-law Trix tried to dissuade Richard from marrying her as her favorite episode because of how \"bizarrely out there\" and unlike Emily it was, claiming that she was \"drunk in every scene\". The actress also identified episodes in which Emily goes on outrageous shopping sprees with Lorelai and Rory among some of her other favorites. Although Bishop usually enjoyed the meals they were served during Friday-night dinners, she identified the confection marzipan as the worst dish she ever had to eat during a scene. Bishop practiced taking small bites of her food because she could not envision her character talking with her mouth full as her co-stars tended to do. Because the actors were prohibited to consume alcohol on set, Emily's wine was often substituted with colored water for Bishop to drink. She would sometimes be allowed to take home some of her character's floral centerpieces, which she had always found \"amazing\". Bishop adds that she has been \"madly in love with\" on-screen daughter Graham \"from practically the first day we said hi\", to the point of which she constantly gave her advice about her love life. Bishop said Graham \"really is like my daughter\".\n\nMashable contributor Proma Khosla believes \"Bishop embodies the Emily we knew during \"Gilmore Girls\"’ seven seasons: classily dressed and put-together, with the aura of someone who’s better than you, even if Bishop doesn’t gloat about it like her character.\" Bishop appreciates Sherman-Palladino for employing her as an \"older\" actress. Although \"Gilmore Girls\" was Bishop and Herrmann's first time working together, they had met once before at the 30th Tony Awards in 1976 after both winning awards for featured actress and actor in a musical and play, respectively. They would not meet again until nearly 25 years later when they posed for a family portrait that would hang in their characters' mansion for the series. Bishop developed a strong, platonic comradery with Herrmann that mirrored the fictional relationship between their characters. Bishop bonded with Herrmann over the fact that they were the show's two oldest cast members, and would often do crossword puzzles in the hair and make up room together. In addition to sharing the same trailer, Bishop would accompany Herrmann to the \"Gilmore Girls\" set early, before the other cast members. After the series finale, Bishop maintained her friendship with Herrmann via e-mail. Herrmann's real life wife Star dubbed Bishop Herrmann's \"second wife\". Having maintained a real-life mother-daughter relationship, Graham and Bishop affectionately refer to each other as their TVM (TV mom) and TVD (TV daughter), respectively.\n\nRichard suffers several medical emergencies during the original series, which usually result in Emily worrying about having to potentially live without her husband. On one occasion, Emily convinces Richard to promise that he not die before her, saying, \"I demand to go first.\" Herrmann passed away in 2014. \"\" revolves around Emily, Lorelai and Rory as the characters encounter new life challenges. Sherman-Palladino felt that the revival should mirror each main characters' role in the original \"Gilmore Girls\" pilot, in which \"all three women were at a change in their lives.\" Herrmann's death was written into \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\" by having his character also die shortly prior to the events of the series. Despite admitting that doing another \"Gilmore Girls\" project without Herrmann would be \"really complicated\", she expressed confidence Sherman-Palladino's ability to \"handle that level of emotions, but still keep it funny\". The creator decided that Emily's change would revolve around the character coming to terms with the fact that she can no longer be with her husband. His death is discussed most prominently in the first episode \"Winter\", during which Emily's fears about living without Richard are realized. \"The Washington Post\"'s Jenny Rogers observed that the character \"now has a few decades of life left without the person for whom she seemed to live\", forced to make decisions about dating. Feeling purposeless in the aftermath of her husband's death, \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\" follows Emily \"as she tries to find a way forward through her grief and confusion\" during her first year as a widow. Bishop originally believed that her character would resume Friday-night dinners in the wake of her husband's death \"because it's one of those schedule structures that she has in place\". Sherman-Palladino decided to write the eldest Gilmore \"in an unexpected direction.\" In \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\", Emily experiences more dramatic changes than she had experience during her seven-year arc on \"Gilmore Girls\", embarking \" on the biggest journey\" of the three main characters. Leah Thomas of \"Bustle\" summarized Emily's storyline as \"one of re-discovery and reflection.\" With a progression that is of equal importance to that of her daughter and granddaughter, Emily takes on a more central role than she ever did in the original series, particularly during the \"Winter\" and \"Fall\" segments, \"tak[ing] the spotlight as a character in her own right\" according to \"Vanity Fair\"'s Laura Bradley. According to Sherman-Palladino, Emily's storyline as a new widow explores what \"the death of a husband mean[s] to a woman who had a life very specific to her all of these years\", encountering widowhood and loneliness for the first time in her life. Bishop described her character as \"a raw nerve\" as a result of losing her husband, alternating between being \"right on the edge of losing it\" and \"a little manic\", as well as having both \"dreadful\" and \"touching\" moments during her mourning process. \n\nEmily struggles to cope with Richard's death. In addition to accidentally commissioning a wall-sized portrait of her late husband, she attempts such exercises as dividing her belongings into items that \"bring her joy\" and ones that do no, inspired by Japanese organizing consultant Marie Kondo's self-help book \"The Life-Changing Magic of Tidying Up: The Japanese Art of Decluttering and Organizing\", discarding a fancy dress while movers remove her dining room chairs. Emily also dresses differently than how she does throughout the original seven seasons of \"Gilmore Girls\", particularly wearing a T-shirt and jeans for the first time. She even attempts dating another man, only to end their relationship when she finds him disappointing. The death of her husband ultimately causes Emily to undergo the most change and development out of all the show's main characters, a gradual progression with which Bishop was \"delighted\", elaborating, \"I liked her seeing her really evolve and grow and try to find herself and all of the different stages of grief between the pain and the loss and the rage and the confusion and trying to find what the next step is for her.\" Overall, Bishop believes her character channels her grief \"pretty well.\"\n\nEmily's relationship with Lorelai is also directly affected by Richard's passing, both positively and negatively. Richard once served as \"the middle ground between\" Emily and Lorelai, who was often \"the most diplomatic of\" Lorelai's parents. After Lorelai speaks poorly of her father at his funeral, Emily tricks Lorelai into finally attending therapy with her in an attempt to mend their relationship. Although the sessions do not appear to be very fruitful, it is the first time they mutually acknowledge that there is a problem in their relationship. Just recognizing that there is a problem is a great first step. Bishop believes \"there’s a little bit more of a womanly connection between the two of them than a mother-daughter thing, but certainly the conflicts and the problems between mother and daughter arise, and very dramatically in one scene.\" The characters are marginally closer friends than they ever were on \"Gilmore Girls\" by the end of the revival.\n\nSince \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\" was to be released on the streaming service Netflix, the writers debated whether or not the characters should be allowed to swear for the first time, particularly Emily. Sherman-Palladino ultimately decided that Emily would be the only character who swears in the series, using profanity against the fellow members of the DAR; she describes organization as \"bullshit\" three times after growing restless as they interview a potential new member, before she quits the group. Uttering \"This whole thing died with Richard anyway\", Bishop explained that Emily \"doesn't see any point in it [anymore]. Obviously, these women were not her friends, they were her social circle ... so she didn't really have any reason to hang around with them anymore and she was seeing through the whole thing. She had, actually, the whole time. She saw the hypocrisy in their behavior. I don't know that she disagreed with it back in her other days – that was just the way it is. Now she's just looking at all of life and calling it out in a way.\" Emily ultimately relinquishes control of the organization to Toni, portrayed by actress Carolyn Hennesy, with whom Bishop had enjoyed arguing \"back and forth as to who's running the show.\"\n\nAlthough Emily's life keeps changing, Sherman-Palladino felt it important that she end the revival \"calm and settled\", at least for the time being. Bishop agreed that Emily finds \"serenity\" by the end of the series, resolving that \"After sharing her life for half a century, it's finally her own, to do with as she pleases.\" She believes that the character sells her mansion because she felt \"it was closing in on her\", and there was little left for her there beyond her fond memories of Richard. The actress defends her decision to relocate to her vacation home in Nantucket because \"she had fond memories of being relaxed and comfortable\" there. Just like the pilot, the series ends with Emily blackmailing Lorelai, offering to loan her the money to expand the Dragonfly Inn – only this time Lorelai agrees to her terms willingly.\n\nHaving been expressing interest in a \"Gilmore Girls\" film for several years, Bishop was \"delighted\" to learn that a revival was being developed. Bishop was initially hesitant to commit to \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\" because her husband had been unwell at the time, and reprising the role would limit her ability to care for him. However, her family encouraged Bishop to return, agreeing \"it’s something that I just have to do ... I’d be heartbroken if the show went on without me.\" The week before filming began, Bishop attended the first few table reads remotely via Skype in order to continue tending to her husband before joining the rest of the cast on location. Bishop was thoroughly \"delighted\" with the new material that had been written for Emily, enjoying \"seeing her really evolve and grow and try to find herself and all of the different stages of grief\". The way in which Emily initially deals with Richard's passing reminded Bishop of how she first responded to the death of her own mother, incorporating elements of the grief she had experienced into her performance: \"I was manic and aggressive and pushing, pushing, pushing — because, if you stop, you’re going to cry. So you don’t stop. And I see that in Emily.\" She also based her performance on widows she had met in real life. Bishop learned approximately 5,295 lines for \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\". Although she found resuming the role as easy as \"putting on a favorite coat that still fits and feels amazing\", she found filming all four episodes at once to be challenging at times because they were rarely shot in order.\n\nBecause of how close Bishop was to Herrmann in real life, Star invited Bishop to bid farewell to the ailing actor when his family decided to take the actor off life support – the only non-family member to have been invited. Bishop herself found it very difficult to do the revival without Herrmann because \"he and I were buds on the show. We, obviously, were older [than the rest of the cast]. But we were also New York actors, and we connected very well ... There was a comfort level.\" Using Emily's storyline as a means of channeling her own grief at the loss of her co-star, Bishop found herself waiting for Herrmann to arrive on set during the first day of filming, and claims that the lights once flickered when she mentioned his name. She would sometimes speak to the large portrait of Herrmann's character. Bishop found Herrmann's absence particularly jarring during scenes filmed in the family dining room because \"There was [an empty] space where he was supposed to be\". Despite her comradery with her female co-stars, Bishop admitted that she felt lonely on set without Herrmann. The actress found it difficult to speak to Graham and Bledel because the former was busy writing a book during her spare time, while the latter seldom speaks, \"so I was just kind of standing around swinging my arms, not knowing what to do.\" The actress' entire performance is \"is defined by the loss of the dear friend she had in Herrmann\", whose loss she incorporated into her performance. At the same time, however, Herrmann – and Richard's – deaths allow Emily to develop in ways that might not have been possible otherwise, finally allowing Bishop to explore her character's true motivations while seeing Emily \"grow a bit.\" Bishop believes Emily \"would have probably been on the same plane that we always were\" had Herrmann not died, elaborating, \"I sure miss Ed and he would have loved to have done it ... but it made for a really interesting journey for Emily.\" Bishop joked that returning to the show in 2016 taught her that \"I’m a really good actress\". Bishop enjoyed Sherman-Palladino's decision to have her character swear in the series, explaining \"That's the quirk of Amy.\" \n\nBishop maintains that she did not portray her character any differently than she had during \"Gilmore Girls\" due to having played her for so many years and knowing her very well. Despite being a complicated sequence that took particularly long to film, Emily enjoyed filming \"the Marie Kondo scene\" because \"You see the first signs of Emily \"going in a direction you couldn't have imagined before.\" In terms of clothing, Emily's clothes changes the most during the revival, beginning with her baseball T-shirt as \"a slight hint\" of her wardrobe progression. Wardrobe designer, Brenda Maben, enjoyed costuming Emily during the revival, particularly during \"Fall\", \"because of the things that happen with her character.” Maben explained that the character's change in attire mirrors people who \"start to find themselves\" after becoming widowed, elaborating that before they can move on from their deaths they \"have to look inside yourself and make decisions and quite possibly make some changes and continue on without the person you are terribly in love with. And it could be going back to something you had earlier in your life before you had your spouse that maybe you might have wanted to do but you didn't do because of having children and living that particular life.\" Bishop said she \"had great fun\" wearing jeans as her character for the first time, which are Steve Madden. Maben echoed that creating Emily's new wardrobe was fun because it \"was something we had never seen before so that was quite fun for me\", despite admitting that she found the jeans \"ugly\". Kelly and Maben agreed that Emily should still wear her signature gold necklace and earrings atop her more casual attire, explaining, \"when you’re DAR ... on top of old money, you don't change up your jewelry a lot ... She's still that same person—there are just a lot of changes that are coming along.” The T-shirt bears a faded Candie's logo. After finding one proved difficult, Maben sought permission from the company to have the logo specially printed on the shirt. Maben explained that the logo \"It needed to be not in your face Candie’s, but it needed to be faded where you had to really look and say, Oh, what does that say?” Although Bishop appreciated her character's sudden interest in marine life for continuing to show her growth, she disliked her speech vivaciously recounting the deaths of these animals due to being an \"animal lover\" herself, and the amount of takes the scene required for her to get it right.\n\n\"Vogue\"'s Edward Barsamian described Emily as a \"deluded, vain, and grandiose\" character who is \"a caricature of East Coast blue bloods.\" Known for being judgmental and sarcastic in nature, BuddyTV described Emily as \"snooty and very difficult to please\", while Sarah Rodman of \"The Boston Globe\" called her \"imperious and controlling\". \"The Washington Post\"'s Jenny Rogers described Emily as \"A classist meddler with a mean streak\"; her flawed personality includes her tendency to be controlling and manipulative at times. \"Bustle\"'s Mallory Carra observed that Emily \"was always a very prim and proper woman\" who \"expected everyone and everything to be in its proper place\" until her personality gradually changes in the wake of Richard's passing. However, Emily rarely loses her temper, with Erica Palan of \"Mental Floss\" describing her as a character who \"could throw down when she wanted to get her way and melt down when she didn’t.\" Emily has a reputation of being \"a resilient woman\" due to her \"tough exterior and tender heart\". Michael Moran, writing for \"The Jewish Chronicle\", dubbed Emily \"master of the passive-aggressive aside\".\n\nCinemaBlend's Corey Chichizola identified Emily as one of \"Gilmore Girls\"' \"most layered and complex characters\", writing, \"While she appears to be superficial, privileged, and conniving ... Beneath it all is a woman who is desperately seeking love and attention from her family, but is unable to compromise her beliefs.\" Justifying Emily's behavior, Bishop elaborated that her character \"is not bad just for the sake of being naughty, but she is accustomed to what people are in a certain way and she is uncomfortable when it is not as she would like. In fact, I think she's not quite sure of herself.\" As such, upper class upbringing causes her to often suppress her quirky, \"fun, creative, youthful side\" despite her occasional urges to explore it. News.com.au journalist Gavin Fernando agreed that \"Everything she says and does comes from this incredibly complex, emotional and passionate place\". \"Bustle\"'s Emily Lackey observed that the character \"is built on contradictions, always doing and saying the opposite of what she means\". Writing for the same publication, S. Atkinson agreed with Emily's complexity, describing her as \"one of the show's prickliest, but also unusually sympathetic, characters\". Erik Mink of the \"New York Daily News\" believes that Emily is just \"as smart and assertive as\" Lorelai and Rory, \"and more clever than either of them\"; she shares her daughter's sarcastic wit, which has been described as a \"deadpan\" sense of humor. She is also involved in a variety of charity organizations and clubs, particularly the DAR, but whether or not her interest t in these programs is genuine is undetermined.\n\nEmily has always been concerned about appearances and sometimes criticizing Lorelai for her own choices in clothing, such as scolding her for wearing a pair of sweatpants that read \"Juicy\". Septembre Anderson of Brit + Co remarked that the character has \"always dressed to the nine\" in contrast to Lorelai's \"lazygirl attitude when it came to style.\" \"Paste\"'s Kit Hamlen described Emily's wardrobe as \"upper echelon, high class personified\", seldom seen \"without a blazer or matching pantsuit\". Kerry Pieri, writing for \"Harper's Bazaar\", described Emily's style as \"expensive yet understated\". Julia Musto of \"Bustle\" felt that the character's \"meticulously designed and paired outfits and jewelry\" represent her \"class, wealth, status, beauty, and grace\", maintaining her \"put together\" image even at times when she is not feeling her best. Maben believes the character's original \"buttoned up\" style \"really summed her up. It was all about how she looked from the outside and she had a certain image to relay to the world because of her status in society and I truly think that look served her very well.\" One of Emily's signature pieces is a gold necklace she wears consistently throughout the series, even on rare occasions when she decides to dress down, particularly the \"funky, torn, not good-fitting jeans\" she wears in the revival. Following Richard's passing, Emily adopts are more \"relaxed fashion\", which \"Vanity Fair\"'s Hilary Weaver identified as \"grunge fashion\".\n\nAccording to Konbini's Benjamin Holt, Emily adheres to the \"bad mom\" literary trope, describing her as an example of \"a domineering matriarch with a sharp tongue and ruthless wit.\" The \"New York Post\" journalist David K. Li credits Emily's \"bickering\" relationship with Lorelai with reminding viewers what a typical mother-daughter relationship looks like, in stark contrast to Lorelai's best friend relationship with Rory. Although the characters occasionally share \"tender moments\", their relationship \"has never been ideal\" in comparison to the strong bond between Lorelai and Rory. Emily often bestows \"condescending lines and disapproving glares\" upon Lorelai, who has at times compared her mother to politicians Adolf Hitler and Joseph Stalin. Emily strongly believes that Lorelai's life would be better if she would only listened to her, but the two characters view Lorelai's life \"in completely different terms.\" \"The Week\"'s Lili Loofbourow observed that the character can be \"callous and even cruel\" at times, even when she insists she is acting out of Lorelai's best interest. Despite disagreeing with most of Lorelai's decisions, the character is secretly proud of her daughter's accomplishments and remains \"there [for Lorelai] when it mattered\", such as caring for her when she injures her back and growing emotional upon watching Lorelai graduate from college. Diana Bruk, writing for \"Country Living\", agreed that, despite being \"suffocating and over-involved\" at times, Emily \"ferociously loves her daughter\", for whom she would do anything. Bruk insists \"everything Emily does in the show is because ... she wants the best possible\" for Lorelai. She is visibly heartbroken upon seeing the shed Lorelai chose to raise Rory in over her own home for the first time, exclaiming \"You hated us that much!\" The character often uses guilt as a means of convincing Lorelai to do her bidding. Emily's relationship with Lorelai mirrors her relationship with her mother-in-law Trix, who \"driv[es] Emily crazy.\" However, Emily is very protective of her family, as shown when she defends Lorelai from Francine Hayden, the mother of Lorelai's childhood boyfriend Christopher, and Rory from Shira Huntzberger, the mother of her boyfriend Logan upon learning that her granddaughter had been disrespected by his family, proving how much she cares for her. Emily also defends Lorelai every occasion that Christopher's father Strobe speaks poorly of her. Her decisions to leave the DAR and move to Nantucket are reminiscent of Lorelai's rebellious nature. When Emily finally moves to Nantucket, she accepts the fact that Lorelai will not be as prominent a feature in her new life. However, because she still wants to spend time with Lorelai, she offers her money to expand her inn in exchange that she visit her for two weeks during summer and one week over Christmas.\n\nEmily's biggest struggle is trying to maintain a relationship with both her daughter and granddaughter \"while doing what she thought was best\", secretly wanting little more than to finally have a good relationship with Lorelai. Li believes that the character is mostly jealous of Lorelai \"and would give anything to have the open relationship Lorelai and Rory share.\" Bishop explained that her character truly envies Lorelai's relationship with Rory because she \"doesn’t know how to do it\", struggling to understand their dynamic due to having been raised to believe that parents are not to be friends with their own children. Emily feels underappreciated by her family, often resulting in the character feeling insecure. Bishop agreed that her character is \"weirdly insecure\", a trait that makes her long for the status quo. She is heartbroken upon reading Lorelai's letter announcing she has decided to run away, when Lorelai neglects to inform her that she is engaged to Max Medina, and when Rory to leaves their home, into which she had moved after dropping out of Yale, without saying goodbye to her; Lorelai's strained relationship with Rory during this time offers viewers \"a glimpse of how Lorelai and Emily’s relationship disintegrated\" when she was a child. Flynn observed that the character is \"often on the receiving end [of mistreatment] when Lorelai and Rory's decisions were less than admirable\", but is usually willing to forgive them for the sake of maintaining their relationship. She also struggles to express how much Lorelai's actions, beginning with leaving home as a teenager to limiting contact with her granddaughter, hurt her. Emily views Rory as her \"new Lorelai\", an opportunity to \"do over\" her relationship with Lorelai and serving as something of a \"replacement\" for her daughter. However, despite being remarkably different, it has been noted that both Lorelai and Emily appear to have \"inherited their biting wit\" from Emily.\n\nUsually depicted as \"steely\" and stuck up, Emily typically hides her more intimate emotions, preferring to prioritize business over pleasure and \"cry when nobody’s looking\" in order to maintain her pride. However, Emily's more vulnerable side is revealed when she learns of Richard's continuing friendship with an ex-girlfriend of his, Pennilyn Lott. Emily is particularly aggravated by Richard when he is dishonest with her, particularly when he neglects to inform her that he has retired or his relationship with Pennilyn. Subsequently, most of Richard's decisions could potentially upturn Emily's life. Although usually quiet and composed, the temporary deterioration of her marriage to Richard reveals \"a sassier side\" in contrast to being merely a wife, becoming \"a woman who had things to say\", while becoming increasingly resentful towards his dismissiveness of her. At the same time, Richard relies on Emily for most matters that do not directly pertain to his insurance company. Despite having been married to the same person for most of her life, \"Bitch\"'s Diane Shipley observed that there have been times when Emily had to raise Lorelai as though she were a single mother herself due to Richard constantly having to travel for business. Despite being involved in several organizations and clubs, Emily does not have many close friends outside of her relationship with Richard. Emily has a tendency to interfere in Lorelai's love life, often preferring Christopher over her other love interests. In season five's \"Wedding Bell Blues\", Emily deliberately invites Christopher to her and Richard's wedding vow renewal in order to upset her current relationship with Luke Danes. Emily using Christopher to form a wedge in their relationship results in Lorelai temporarily severing contact with her mother. However, Emily orders him to leave her alone on one occasion when Lorelai refuses to speak with him, and voices resentment towards him over the fact that he let Lorelai raise Rory alone. Emily initially refuses to accept Lorelai's relationship with Luke, a diner owner, because she believes he is not good enough for her. \n\nThe way in which Emily mistreats her maids is used as a running gag throughout the series. Constantly struggling to understand what language her often foreign maids are speaking, Emily seldom bothers to get to know her domestic employees before firing them for trivial reasons such as \"clomping around the house\", and rarely keeps the same maid for more than one episode. A notable exception is Berta, a maid Emily hires after Richard's demise and uncharacteristically retains throughout all four installments of the revival, even when she moves to Nantucket and taking her entire family with her, despite the fact that she does not know what language she speaks, is unable to identify the meals she cooks and is annoyed that her large family \"keep[s] appearing.\" Anne Cohen, writing for \"Refinery 29\", believes Emily is so tolerant of Berta and her family because she finally experiences \"what it means to be alone.\" As a grandmother, Kristen Sturt of Grandparents.com observed that Emily resembles \"rich and imperious glam-mas\" who are \"as likely to bake a pie as they are to shop at Payless\", as opposed to traditional \" kindly, white-haired and wise ladies.\" Judy Berman of \"Flavorwire\" dubbed her \"the quintessential WASP grandmother\".\n\nCritical reception towards Bishop's performance has been positive since \"Gilmore Girls\" premiered in 2000. Graeme McMillan of \"Wired\" wrote that the actress \"plays Emily to perfection\", while \"The Hollywood Reporter\" commended Bishop for portraying her character \"with great moxie\". \"Us Weekly\" agreed that Bishop played the character \"perfectly\". Lauren Fries of \"Variety\" praised Bishop as a \"talented\" actress who \"make[s] Graham’s work easier and lend[s] a good deal of authority and legitimacy to the show.\" CinemaBlend contributor Adrienne Jones wrote that the actress \"helped her character display just the right amount of heart and saucy venom to engage in emotional verbal battles\". \"Bustle\"'s Alanna Bennett commended Bishop for making her character \"entirely human\" as opposed to solely \"pompous and one-dimensional\". Writing for the \"Chicago Tribune\", Maureen Ryan similarly appreciated Bishop's \"lively yet precise\" performance for preventing Emily from being \"just another WASP witch\", referring to the character as \"often the best thing about the show\" while ranking her among seven things she will miss about \"Gilmore Girls\" in the wake of its finale. \"Vox\"'s Constance Grady believes that Bishop is \"entitled\" to an Emmy Award nomination for her performance, calling both her and Graham \"extraordinarily gifted actresses who play beautifully against each other\" and highlighting moments when Bishop \"gets something to sink her teeth into\". The critic also identified the season five episode \"Emily Says Hello\" during which her character sobs after returning home from a pleasant date as Bishop at her most \"fantastic\" and \"extraordinary\". \"The Telegraph\"'s Rachel Ward opined that the series had always been \"at its best\" when the \"steely...judgmental\" Emily \"showed [her] vulnerability\". Bishop's performance earned her two Golden Satellite Awards nominations for Best Actress in a Supporting Role – Musical or Comedy Series at the 7th and 8th Golden Satellite Awards in 2002 and 2004, respectively. Fans of the series of long lamented the fact that the Emmy Awards did not acknowledge Bishop's performance is the series during its seven-year run. \n\nReception towards Emily's characterization has varied greatly, with opinions ranging from positive to negative. In 2002, Zap2it contributor Amy Amatangelo named Emily one of the \"10 Best Characters on TV\", calling her relationship with Lorelai the show's \"most gripping\". \"Vanity Fair\"'s Joanna Robinson felt that Emily was the only character who \"was acting like\" herself during the original series much-maligned seventh and final season. News.com.au's Gavin Fernando hailed Emily as \"The Greatest Character Ever\", describing her as \"perfection. In every way\" and reviewing the villainous way in which she is often depicted as \"painful\". Advising fans to forget about Lorelai and Rory, Fernando concluded that Emily \"is the real star of\" \"Gilmore Girls\". \"The Christian Post\" contributor Jilianne Arbonida called Emily a \"better\" version of Lorelai. Shari Nementzik of \"Cosmopolitan\" described the character's one-liners as \"memorable\", whose neurotic personality she eventually \"learnt to love\". As one of the show's most vilified characters who some critics have perceived as a \"one-dimensional villain\", Emily has constantly been criticized for being a manipulative character who uses her wealth to get what she wants. some fans of the series dismiss the character as \"elitist and judgmental.\" David K. Li, writing for the \"New York Post\", dubbed Emily quite possibly \"the most unlikable mother on TV\" but admitted she is the reason \"the show feel[s] real.\" Beamly compiled a list of \"5 times We Really, Truly Hated Emily Gilmore\", calling her \"not quite a villain but she’s not exactly a heroine either.\" IndieWire ranked the character one of the least important \"Gilmore Girls\" characters at number 67, admitting \"There are things about Emily that are nice. That are entertaining. That are admirable\", but criticizing her for causing Lorelai and Luke to break up, among other reasons \"why we have no patience with her behavior.\" Author Shannon Liz Miller also enjoyed watching Trix \"dr[ive] Emily insane\".\n\nIn retrospect, several critics have grown to appreciate and defend Emily. Diana Bruk of \"Country Living\" admitted that although she often sided with Lorelai while watching \"Gilmore Girls\" as a child, labeling Emily \"a bad mother\", her opinion has since changed to regard the character as \"just like any other mother\" with whom the character shares several positive traits, among them wanting the best for her daughter. Similarly, Kayleigh Roberts of \"Marie Claire\" identified with Rory as a teenager but ultimately grew see Emily as her \"favorite Gilmore Girl\" as an adult, dubbing her \"the Gilmore lady I aspire to emulate\". Defending the character from some fans who \"might not be so happy to see Emily make a return\" in an article entitled \"Why Emily Gilmore Is Better Than You Give Her Credit For\", \"Bustle\"'s Caitlin Flynn described her as \"wonderful in a different way\" from Lorelai and Rory, despite her flaws, commending her complexity and praising her one-liners. Emily Lackey, also writing for \"Bustle\", hailed the character as \"The Best Part Of \"Gilmore Girls\"\", calling her the main reason fans \"were obsessed with\" the series. The author admitted that she did not appreciate Emily's character role until the show's fifth season, when she started watching to see what the character \"would do next\", crediting her complex nature with making her \"such an amazing character\" and her criticism of Shira Huntzberger with establishing her as \"your favorite Gilmore girl of all time\" before concluding \"there really was no better reason to watch \"Gilmore Girls\" than Emily Gilmore herself.\" Kaitlyn Laurie of Celebuzz admitted she \"can’t help but have only love for Emily\". Emily's exchange with Shira is often identified as one of the character's finest moments.\n\nOnce considered to be one of the show's most underrated, overlooked characters, Emily has experienced newfound popularity and appreciation as a result of her role in \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\", since becoming a fan favorite. \"Bustle\" contributor Caitlin Flynn believes that Emily was originally ignored by audiences because she belongs to an older generation than most \"Gilmore Girls\" fans. Wetpaint's Gaby Corsalini observed that the revival reminded audiences \"just how underappreciated and underrated Emily Gilmore’s character always was.\" When the revival was announced, BuzzFeed's Krystie Lee Yandoli heralded the return of Emily \"into our lives.\" Jenny Rogers, writing for \"The Washington Post\", expected Emily to be \"the only reason to watch the ‘Gilmore Girls’ revival\", reevaluating her as a \"great\" character upon re-watching the original series while preferring her \"biting\" sense of humor over Lorelai and Rory’s. Rogers also believed that Emily would be the only main character who could evolve reasonably enough to satisfy fans. PopSugar's Erin Hurley wrote that Emily \"never disappoints when it comes to snark,\" insisting that it and her \"burns\" be featured prominently in the revival. \n\nMost critics and fans agree that the character provides the majority of the revival's highlights. Comparing the character's storyline to that of a phoenix rising from the ashes, Laura Bradley of \"Vanity Fair\" appreciated Emily for \"sav[ing] us from her progeny’s typical, tedious flailing\", writing, \"she’s no Rory or Lorelai, but isn’t that exactly what we love about Emily Gilmore?\" In a separate review, Bradley crowned Emily the \"Real Star\" of the revival and wrote that she \"is back and better than ever\", praising her development as \"the only [character] who shows any semblance of personal growth\". \"Refinery29\"'s Anne Cohen echoed Bradley's sentiment, dubbing Emily \"The Best Character In \"A Year In The Life\"\" while highlighting her as \"the only one who truly comes into her own.\" Cohen also Believes that Emily has always been \"the most stable, caring character\" on \"Gilmore Girls\", despite her flaws. Margaret Lyons of \"The New York Times\" agreed that Emily's storyline \"had the most emotional weight and credibility\", describing herself as \"elated to see her claw her way back to a life she wanted.\" \"Bustle\" contributor Lea Thomas dubbed Emily's conclusion \"one of the most touching and memorable in the revival\". \"The Vine\"'s Tara Watson described Emily as \"a joy to watch\" due to Bishop's \"phenomenal\" performance and the \"unexpected direction\" in which the character was written. \"Bustle\"'s Mallory Carra identified the scene in which Emily confronts the DAR as \"poignant\" and \"one of the show's best scenes ever\". Critics agreed that Bishop's performance was worthy of an Emmy Award nomination. TVLine felt that Bishop's performance deserved a Primetime Emmy Award nomination for Outstanding Supporting Actress in a Limited Series or Movie. Writing for the same publication, Dave Nemetz agreed that Bishop \"is long overdue for a Supporting Actress nomination\", calling her performance \"masterful\" Praising her for excelling in both her characters \"explosive\" and quieter moments, the website joked, \"If there’s an Emmy voter out there who doesn’t deem Bishop worthy of a long overdue nomination, we’d like to point you in the direction of Emily’s new favorite word: 'Bullshit.'\" In a slightly less positive review, Lydia Snapper of \"Cliché Magazine\" wrote that although she \"loved Emily’s transformation through the grieving process\", she found her to Nantucket to work as a whaling docent implausible.\n\nTVLine's Michael Ausiello dubbed Bishop \"a national treasure\" for providing \"the revival’s most crowd-pleasing moment.\" Shannon Vestal Robinson, writing for PopSugar, cited Emily among seven reasons \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\" should be renewed for a second season, calling the character's role her \"favorite character development for Emily ever\". The jeans and T-shirt combination Emily wears in the revival has garnered significant attention from fans and the media since it was first seen in the trailer, with Mashable's Proma Khosla calling the outfit \"legendary\". E! reported that critics and fans were unable to stop talking about the outfit. Bishop admitted that the jeans were intended to shock audiences, Maben was surprised that the producers decided to include the scene in which Emily debuts the outfit in the trailer, at first assuming that they would have preferred to keep it as a surprise until the revival was released. \"Entertainment Weekly\" ranked the jeans among \"the most shocking moments of the revival\". \"Entertainment Weekly\"'s Mandi Bierly wrote that fans remember Bishop \"fondly\" as Emily. Fans and the media have dubbed Emily \"the third Gilmore girl\". Bishop admitted that she is confused by how popular her character is among fans, despite her personality. Bishop recalls being surprised when fans approach her to tell her how much the character reminds them of their own female relatives: \"my mother, my aunt, my sister ... The only thing that makes me a little uncomfortable is when someone says you’re just like my wife.\"\n\nEdward Barsamian of \"Vogue\" published an article entitled \"13 Life Lessons I Learned from Emily Gilmore\", writing, \"whether you love or loathe her, [Emily] provided countless life lessons many of which some of us still use today.\" \"Bustle\" contributor Caitlin Flynn dubbed the character \"one of the most underrated moms on TV\". BuddyTV placed Emily at number 13 on their \"Worst TV Moms Ever\" ranking. \"Flavorwire\" placed Emily at number seven on the website's ranking of \"The Top 10 TV Grandmas of All Time\". TV.com ranked Emily the 15th greatest television grandmother. Grandparents.com included Emily among \"The 22 Greatest TV Grandparents\". \"Bustle\" published an article recognizing \"13 Emily Gilmore Fashion Lessons That We Can All Learn From\", calling it \"widely underrated\" while praising her use of \"accessories, shapes, and colors to make each outfit pop.\" According to author Julia Musto, the character also teaches \"lessons about how to be an actual Queen, awesome grandmother, expert shopper, and brutally destroy your enemies with their deepest and darkest fears and insecurities.\" \"The Daily Beast\"'s Kevin Fallon dubbed the character \"the beacon of taste and class\". Hollywood.com published a list of the character's \"10 Best Burns\", crowning her \"the queen of burns.\" \"Mental Floss\" compiled a list of the character's \"Best Freak-Outs\". Emily remains the role for which Bishop is best known. In 2012, Sherman-Palladino cast Bishop as Fanny Flowers in her comedy-drama television series \"Bunheads\".\n\nThe way Emily treats her maids has been widely criticized, a common complaint made against an otherwise well-received character. Several critics have accused the running gag of being racist due to the fact that the majority of Emily's maids are non-English-speaking women of color, who she often fires. Christopher Rosa of \"Glamour\" felt that \"there isn't anything funny about a spoiled white person disposing of women working in her home like they aren't human beings.\" \"The Frisky\"'s Divya Amladi dismissed the running gag as \"Gilmore Girls\"' \"most condescending storyline\". Amladi admitted that she struggles to determine if the writers intended for the running joke to be taken humorously or seriously. Critics have been slightly more tolerant of Emily's relationship with Berta, a maid she retains throughout the entire duration of \"Gilmore Girls: A Year in the Life\", some of whom have reviewed their dynamic as \"generous\" and \"sweet\" due to the fact that Berta appears to be a \"more humanized\" character than Emily's previous maids.\n\nDespite agreeing that Emily's relationship with her maids has always seemed racist, calling it \"Gilmore Girls\"' \"weirdest vice\", VH1's Anna Cincera appreciated the fact that Emily acquired Berta as a friend, receiving it as a method of \"apologiz[ing] for all that aforementioned casual racism\" but would have preferred if \"Emily learns Spanish to talk to her friend like humans do\". Ali of VH1 welcomed their relationship, believing that Berta \"bring[s Emily] joy\" after Richard's death. Writing for the same publication, Damian Bellino praised Emily's growth overall but dismissed the Berta subplot seemed \"false\", while Kelly Anderson lamented the loss of \"Emily firing people in every episode.\"\n\nStronger criticisms have endured; Amladi dismissed Emily's relationship with Berta and her family as \"a weaksauce commentary on immigrants moving in and taking over\", additionally criticizing the fact that she sells her large home in which they could have all lived comfortably in favor of moving them to a smaller beach house, accusing the character of treating them like objects. Despite having mostly praise for the character, \"Vanity Fair\"'s Laura Bradley dubbed Emily's treatment of Berta and her family \"racist\", referring to it as one of the character's \"more frustrating habits\" that were retained for the revival. However, Bradley acknowledged that some of Emily's \"coldness melts away\" as the character agrees to care for Berta. Anne Cohen of \"Refinery29\", who also had very positive opinions to share about Emily otherwise, called the subplot \"tired — and a bit racist\", but admitted that it allows Emily to exhibit compassion that she's rarely shown before. \"The Washington Post\"'s Emily Yahr wrote that the subplot \"seems out of place for a TV show in 2016.\"\n"}
{"id": "1487371", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1487371", "title": "Eulogy (film)", "text": "Eulogy (film)\n\nEulogy is a 2004 comedy-drama film written and directed by Michael Clancy. An international co-production between companies from Germany, the United Kingdom, and the United States, the film follows a dysfunctional family as secrets come to light at the funeral of the family's patriarch.\n\nThe film opens with Kate Collins walking up to a house. She knocks and a woman answers the door. Kate explains that although she doesn't know her she has a long story to explain.\n\nThe story begins with the death of her grandfather, Edmund Collins. The movie then goes on to show how all the family members found out about the death, and how they came together for the funeral. As the Collins family joins their widowed mother/grandmother, Charlotte Collins, the family's dysfunctions and idiosyncrasies come to light. Kate's father, Daniel Collins, is an \"obscure foreign film\" actor whose career peaked at age 8 when he appeared in a peanut butter commercial. Kate's uncle, Skip Collins, is an overly hormonal father of overly hormonal twin sons (Fred and Ted) who managed to run their mother out of their family. Kate's aunt, Lucy Collins, and her girlfriend Judy Arnolds are both criticised throughout the movie because of their relationship. Most of this criticism comes from Kate's other aunt, Alice Collins. The bossy, intimidating Alice has managed to both raise her three children and drive her husband into submissive silence, because of her persistent talking and badgering. Once they all arrive at the only family home Kate is told by Charlotte that her grandfather wished for her to give the eulogy at the funeral.\n\nAfter a family dinner that goes south when Lucy and Judy announce that they are getting married, tired of the family feuding, Charlotte tries to commit suicide by overdosing on a medication. While the family sits in the waiting room they run into Samantha, a nurse at the hospital who is also an old friend of Alice's. After having her stomach pumped and after rejoining the family, she tries again by jumping out of a moving van on a bridge and although she does not die, she is seriously injured and spends the remainder of the movie in a wheelchair.\n\nDuring the film, Kate continually tries to come up with a eulogy while dealing with a previous romance with Ryan, from whom she ran away after being caught by Ryan's mother who came home while Ryan and Kate were having sex. Kate gets reacquainted with Ryan (after trying to dodge him several times around town) and their relationship reignites.\n\nAt Edmund's will reading, it is revealed that Edmund has three families that don't know about each other. This explains Edmund's inability to keep names and number of children straight over the years before also dropping the bomb that he was up to his \"prostate in debt\". Kate is tasked with finding and telling the other two families of Edmund's demise.\n\nUltimately, per Edmund's will, he is placed in a casket and floated out on a local lake in a boat. Ted and Fred, having previously filled the casket with gasoline, start shooting fiery arrows from a bow at the casket. During this time Kate finally gives her eulogy. One of the arrows eventually hits the casket and a moment later the casket, completely unexpectedly, explodes in a fiery explosion and completely demolishes the boat, body, and casket in a splintery mess.\n\nThe movie ends with Kate talking to the woman from the beginning of the film. The woman explains she is not actually the person she was looking for but rather her neighbor.\n\n\nThe film was released in 22 venues on October 15, 2004, and earned $41,788 in its first weekend, ranking #51 in the North American box office and seventh among the week's new releases. At the end of its run, two weeks later on October 28, the film grossed $75,076 domestically and $14,705 overseas for a worldwide total of $89,781.\n\n\"Eulogy\" received generally negative reviews from critics. On review aggregator website Rotten Tomatoes, the film has a 32% rating, based on 34 reviews, with an average of 4.6/10. Metacritic reports a 34 out of 100 rating, based on 12 critics, indicating \"generally unfavorable reviews\".\n\n"}
{"id": "588308", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=588308", "title": "Faxlore", "text": "Faxlore\n\nFaxlore is a sort of folklore: humorous texts, folk poetry, folk art, and urban legends that are circulated, not by word of mouth, but by fax machine. Xeroxlore or photocopylore is similar material circulated by photocopying; compare samizdat in Soviet-bloc countries.\n\nThe first use of the term xeroxlore was in Michael J. Preston's essay \"Xerox-lore\", 1974. \"Photocopylore\" is perhaps the most frequently encountered name for the phenomenon now, because of trademark concerns involving the Xerox Corporation. The first use of this term came in \"A Dictionary of English Folklore\" by Jacqueline Simpson and Steve Roud.\n\nSome faxlore is relatively harmless. Cartoons and jokes often circulate as faxlore, the poor graphic quality becoming worse with each new person who resends the joke to the next recipient. Because faxlore and xeroxlore is the (mis)appropriation of technology owned by the employer, much humorous faxlore is mildly subversive of the workplace and its values. Like email and chain letters, office technology has given new life to various forms of practical jokes, urban legends, and folklore. The items are often office-related, such as spoof agenda for meetings, spurious descriptions of ridiculous training programs that all staff will allegedly be required to attend, and so on. Names may be whited out and replaced with someone in the office, making it a joke on a particular person, or details may be altered making an item more topical.\n\nThe semi-traditional lists of reasons \"why a cucumber is better than a man\" or \"why a beer is better than a woman\" often circulate as faxlore, as has the well known mock German variations of the \"Blinkenlights\" poster. Another commonly circulated text contains ethnic humor; a typical version goes:\n\nMaterials of this sort have existed from the beginnings of duplicating technologies. World War II era blueprints exist of drawings of female nudes with their body parts labeled as if they were the parts of airplanes. With the widespread adoption of photocopying, amateur duplication of this sort of material became available to a much larger social base. Cartoons and other amateur materials were distributed in the workplace, usually in violation of managerial restrictions on the use of office supplies, and often in disregard of copyright law.\n\nLater, during the early 1990s, the widespread adoption of telecopiers made it possible to duplicate these materials remotely. The use of a fax machine to duplicate these materials also changed the emphases of their subjects; various alarms and urban legends were propagated to distant readers over the telephone lines. This use of fax has been somewhat supplanted by email as that technology became more widely used and embedded in the culture; the sort of urban legends that once circulated by fax are now likely to appear as email hoaxes. Specific computer related alarms are the subject of virus hoaxes; email makes forwarding of texts relatively easy, and the frightening nature of the revelation makes it seem important to pass along, despite any doubts the sender might have.\n\nOther sorts of faxlore have had more serious consequences. A number of more notorious urban legends have circulated in faxlore. The notorious \"Blue Star Acid\" hoax is one well known example.\n\nThe \"lights out\" hoax, which claimed that people who were driving in the dark with their headlights out might be gang members, and that those who flashed their headlights at these drivers might be marked for murder as part of a gang initiation, was another hoax that was widely circulated as faxlore. The poor graphic quality of the frequently re-sent faxes, which often were made out to appear to have originated with the police department of a distant city, only made these hoaxes seem more credible.\n\nIn the United States, collections of supposedly sinister symbols have been circulated among school administrators and police departments; in the 1980s these symbols were frequently alleged to be \"Satanic symbols\", and in the 1990s they were alleged to be \"gang symbols\". Political or religious symbols, like the peace symbol, the Star of David, the Rosary, the ankh, or the pentagram were mingled with other cryptic or fanciful symbols in these faxed and recirculated sheets, and the entire collection was condemned.\n\nOn the authority of these anonymous, hard to trace, and impossible to cross-examine sources, school administrators sometimes acted to ban the wearing of Stars of David and similar symbols of minority religions. Typically, no compiler or author is given for the collection of symbols, though frightening descriptions are often given about their \"secret meaning.\" A number of civil liberties lawsuits were filed over actions taken by school administrators who took these anonymous sources seriously.\n\nA similar claim that the Procter & Gamble logo was a \"satanic symbol\" was linked in the 1980s to the activity of several Amway distributors, Amway being one of Procter & Gamble's competitors; the hoax was spread by fax, photocopier, and later by voice mail and email. Another occasional hoax claims that clothing and memorabilia of various universities or sports teams are \"gang symbols\".\n\nWith the rise of the Internet, media such as World Wide Web, email, instant messaging, and social networking sites are now available to quickly and widely spread the sort of material that formerly circulated as faxlore. The hoax warnings of things such as dire and terrible computer viruses that still occasionally circulate, carry on one tradition of the bogus cautionary tale that used to circulate as faxlore.\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23563733", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23563733", "title": "Flat World Knowledge", "text": "Flat World Knowledge\n\nFlatWorld is a publisher of college-level textbooks and educational supplements founded in 2007 as Flat World Knowledge by Eric Frank and Jeff Shelstad. It was acquired at the end of 2016 by Alastair Adam and John Eielson and its company headquarters was moved from Washington, DC to Boston, MA. The company originally offered every textbook published free using online delivery under the open content paradigm, but in November 2012, the company announced that it will no longer offer a free version citing financial concerns as the reason for the change.\n\nFollowing the 2016 acquisition, the company rebranded as FlatWorld. FlatWorld publishes more than 100 peer-reviewed textbooks.\n\nFlat World Knowledge was founded in 2007 by Jeff Shelstad and Eric Frank in Nyack, New York.\n\nFlat World Knowledge began alpha testing of their platform and business model spring of 2008. Two alpha phases involved faculty and one alpha phase involved students. The company then moved to small-scale private beta testing in 27 classes. Based on results from these studies, the business model was determined viable and the company moved toward preparing for a public beta launch in January 2009.\n\nDuring spring of 2009, 30 colleges adopted Flat World open textbooks in public beta bringing the company their first 1,000 users. Eight textbooks were published at the time. By August 2009, Flat World textbooks had been adopted at 400 colleges for use by 40,000 students.\n\nFlat World Knowledge and Lyryx Learning Team Up to Offer Free and Open Textbooks With Integrated Assessment.\n\nThe company also published a graphic novel, \"\" in August.\n\nFlat World Knowledge moved from Nyack, New York to Irvington, New York to accommodate company growth.\n\nFlat World Knowledge entered into a unique licensing agreement with Virginia State University in 2010. For eight core business courses, students gained access to all electronic formats of select textbooks including study aids. Unlike traditional licensing models, students retain access to course materials and study aids indefinitely through their Flat World student account. Audio textbook versions and ePub files similarly do not expire. The price for this universal digital access license is cited as $20 per student by the \"Richmond Times-Dispatch\".\n\nThe Virginia State University program is featured in the \"BizEd\" article \"Digital at the Core.\" Virginia State University is using the agreement as part of a university effort to \"save money, save the environment, improve student retention, and prepare business graduates for the complex working world.\"\n\nAs of August 2010, the number of colleges and universities using Flat World open textbooks doubled to 800 higher education institutions. Student users more than tripled with 150,000 students using 24 published titles.\n\nDuring fall semester 2010, 50 additional titles were announced as in the publication pipeline. 2010 also marked crossing the threshold of having 100 authors signed to write open textbooks for publication by Flat World Knowledge.\n\nFlat World Knowledge claimed that in its second full academic year of operation, they would save 150,000 college students $12 million in textbook costs in the 2010–2011 school year after adoptions by more than 1,300 educators as of August 2010.\n\nIn December 2010, Outsell Inc. named Flat World Knowledge as one of \"30 to Watch\" for 2011 among innovators and disruptors who were selected for \"shaking up their respective marketplaces.\"\n\nIn November 2012, FlatWorld announced that it will no longer provide free access to their textbook content citing financial concerns as the reason for this change. Unable to continue to operate without a way to generate greater revenue, it instituted a paywall and moved away from the open model. Over the next three years, the company pivoted focus, investing in developing a new, competency-based learning platform and line of business.\n\nIn late 2016, the core textbook publishing business, Flat World Knowledge, was spun off and acquired by Alastair Adam and John Eielson and rebranded as FlatWorld. The remaining competency-based learning business was rebranded as Sagence Learning. Adam and Eielson saw an opportunity to disrupt the higher-education publishing market, where fewer and fewer students were able to afford a new textbook and were increasingly reliant on used, rented or outdated editions of titles. They wanted to refocus FlatWorld on low-cost, high-quality textbooks, available in whatever format the student preferred. They believed that by offering high-quality textbooks at affordable prices, they could put a new, current edition textbook in every student’s hands on the first day of class.\n\nFlat World Knowledge secured $11.5 million in investments through 2010, including an initial $700k angel investment.\n\nIn January 2011, $15 million in Series B funding led by Bertelsmann Digital Media Investments (BDMI), a wholly owned subsidiary of Bertelsmann AG, and Bessemer Venture Partners was announced. Returning investors for Series B funding include Valhalla Partners, GSA Venture Partners (formerly Greenhill SAVP), Primary Venture Partners and several angel investors.\n\nRandom House announced an investment in Flat World Knowledge in April, 2011. Random House is the world's largest publisher of commercial trade books. Random House chairman and CEO Markus Dohle states Flat World Knowledge is a “transformative company in higher-education publishing” and said, “We [at Random House] share a strong drive to make high-quality academically-oriented content widely available and affordable for students and educators, and we welcome the opportunity to invest in Flat World's growth.\"\n\nA Canadian representation agreement was announced in March 2011 with Northrose Associates of Whitby, Ontario, Canada. The Canadian higher education system faces challenges similar to U.S. higher education providers from the ever escalating costs of traditional college textbooks. Open textbooks from Flat World Knowledge will be actively marketed by the firm to educators and higher education administrators across Canada.\n\nIn addition to use in Canada, worldwide learners are accessing Flat World Knowledge textbooks regularly. Adoptions have been reported in 44 countries. The company actively promotes use of their free and open textbook delivery platform to advance education internationally. The most frequent international access originates in India, China, the Philippines, Indonesia, Malaysia, Egypt, Pakistan, Bangladesh, Romania, Australia, the United Kingdom, and Germany. International usage is growing rapidly. In March 2011 alone traffic increased enough in four countries to be added to the cited Alexa Internet traffic ranking report. The \"Make it Your Own\" (MIYO) feature of the company's publishing platform allows for customization and annotation of published titles in English and other languages.\n\nThe company was featured in Chris Anderson's \"\" in 2008.\n\nIn 2009, BNET recognized Flat World Knowledge as an industry innovator for introducing an abundance-based disruptive business model to the college textbook industry. That same year, Flat World Knowledge and Bookshare were jointly recognized as publishing industry innovators of 2009.\n\nFlat World Knowledge was identified in a 2010 report by Nicole Allen of The Student PIRGs \"A Cover to Cover Solution: How Open Textbooks are the Path to Textbook Affordability\" and the New Media Consortium's \"2010 Horizon Report\" as a contributor to the rapidly progressing adoption of open content in higher education.\n\nIn December 2010, the American Library Association's Business Reference Sources Committee of RUSA's Business Reference and Services Section (BRASS) selected Flat World Knowledge's Business and Economics open textbooks for their 2010 list of \"outstanding business reference sources.\" Specific criteria used by the American Library Association BRASS when evaluating texts for selection were:\n\n\"A resource compiled specifically to supply information on a certain subject or group of subjects in a form that will facilitate its ease of use. The works are examined for authority and reputation of the publisher, author, or editor; accuracy; appropriate bibliography; organization, comprehensiveness, and value of the content; currency and unique addition to the field; ease of use for intended purpose; quality and accuracy of indexing; and quality and usefulness of graphics and illustrations. Each year more electronic reference titles are published, and additional criteria by which these resources are evaluated include search features, stability of content, graphic design quality, and accuracy of links. Works selected are intended to be suitable for medium to large academic and public libraries.\"\nThe Flat World Knowledge open textbook \"Organizational Behavior\" by Talya Bauer and Berrin Erdogan was recognized by the Text and Academic Author's Association with a Textbook Excellence Award (\"Texty\") in March 2011. \"This is the first time that an open textbook has won a Texty,\" notes Richard Hull, TAA’s executive director, \"and signals the emergence of a new publishing model.\" Winners are determined by a panel of veteran academic authors. The award seeks to \"recognize works for their excellence in the areas of content, presentation, appeal, and teachability.\"\n\nIn March 2012, Flat World Knowledge titles won two \"Texty\" awards. \"Information Systems: A Manager’s Guide to Harnessing Technology,\" 2nd ed., by John Gallaugher won best new textbook of the year for the College, Accounting/Business/Economics/Management category. \"Sociology: Understanding and Changing the Social World\" by Steve Barkan won best new textbook of the year for the category College, Humanities/Social Sciences.\n\nFlat World Knowledge textbooks are developed for accessible publishing natively to facilitate compliance with expectations placed on educators for assuring student accessibility to course materials set forth in Section 504 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 and Title II of the Americans with Disabilities Act of 1990 (ADA). For students with text, vision, vision and hearing, or physical disabilities, Flat World Knowledge has partnered with Bookshare to provide no-charge accessible digital books including an electronic Braille format. Bookshare members with qualifying disabilities have immediate access to course and reference materials online as opposed to having to request materials direct from the publisher by mail or through another intermediary. According to Jim Fruchterman, CEO of Benetech, the non-profit organization that operates Bookshare, \"Without the cooperation of a publisher such as Flat World, students often wait for weeks to get textbooks in accessible formats and, in some cases, are forced to drop courses due to lack of accessible books. Flat World is the first postsecondary textbook publisher to recognize and alleviate this problem.\"\n\nFlat World Knowledge claims to make compliance with the recent Higher Education Opportunity Act (HEOA) simple as the basic price for their textbooks is free and once published, any edition number remains available online at no charge or available for order in print by students, educators, and bookstores on-demand; educators change versions only when they wish and book versions are never \"out of print.\"\n\nDigital textbook and course material formats offer sustainability advantages over traditional paper textbooks. According to a publishing industry study, an estimated \"net [carbon] emission of 8.85 pounds per book [is created for each paper book] sold to consumers.\" The net carbon emission for textbooks is much higher as the industry average includes high volume small paperbacks, children's books, and many other small form factors popular with consumers.\n\nIn 2010-2011, approximately 57.5% of students using Flat World texts opted for entirely digital delivery. As of fall 2011, 70% of students opt for digital formats, significantly reducing the ecologic footprint from textbook use when compared to the historic paper textbook format. Demand for free internet, ePub, .MOBI (Kindle), and PDF format books and materials is growing rapidly. Flat World Knowledge is \"far ahead of the industry curve\" for digital format use.\n\nFor the approximately 30% of students who choose a print version over a digital one, Flat World Knowledge uses just-in-time centralized and local print on demand in their business model.\n\nLocal print on demand of licensed content offers environmental benefits by saving the need to produce, store, and ship books from a central location — saving energy, natural resources, and cost. Eliminating the need for shipping alone eliminates at least 12.7% of the carbon footprint for paper books.\n\nFlat World Knowledge offers local booksellers the opportunity to license open textbook content for on-demand printing by the Espresso Book Machine and similar equipment, removing the need for shipping and warehouse inventory, bulk receiving, and stocking shelves. Local print on demand is an emerging trend that will help reduce environmental and financial costs of textbooks as the technology is adopted to serve educators and learners who desire print format books.\n\nSome students use accessible and audio formats. Though Braille embossers print on paper, it is essential to provide access to educational materials in the format of choice to students regardless of disability. The same electronic file that is provided for a Braille embosser by Bookshare for Flat World Knowledge open textbooks is also compatible with many refreshable Braille displays.\n\nOther accessible and audio mp3 formats are very sustainable as they are electronic.\n\nUntil November 2012, Flat World open textbooks were available to read for free through the Flat World Knowledge website in an e-reader like format. Any user with access to the Internet was able to read the entire textbook catalog for free. This option has since been eliminated because too many students were taking advantage of this option and the FWK business model was becoming unsustainable without increased revenue from the other options.\n\nAccessible formats of published works for people with qualifying disabilities are available at no charge through Bookshare.\n\nTextbooks in formats including print, individual PDF chapters, ePub, .MOBI (Kindle), audio mp3, abridged audio study mp3, and optional study tools are available for purchase by students direct, through bookstores, and via select online providers.\n\nFor users that desire note taking, highlighting, flash cards, or access to a condensed study view of textbooks through their online account, a paid study pass purchase is required.\n\nDerivative works created through the Flat World publishing engine are available online at no charge in the two formats described earlier or for purchase in print format direct or through bookstores by ISBN. An ISBN is generated for all derivative work publications developed through the Flat World Knowledge publishing engine as is a Creative Commons license compatible with the original work. Accessible derivative work versions of Flat World Knowledge titles are made available for students with disabilities through Bookshare upon request.\n\nThe company produces textbooks in a device-agnostic manner to facilitate use of electronic publication formats on all major platforms including iPad, iPhone, Amazon Kindle, Nook, EnTourage eDGe, Sony Reader, and Android devices.\n\nNo Internet browser preference is stated for general access to free online reading over the Internet. Flat World Knowledge textbooks can be viewed on all major browsers and platforms.\n\nFlat World Knowledge textbook content can be integrated directly into a learning management system such as Blackboard Learning System, ANGEL, Moodle, WebCT, or Desire2Learn. Direct linking is available to Flat World textbooks, sections, and individual pages so other means of accumulating content in containers for group access to course learning materials are also supported. This addresses a controversy over time limitations placed on access to course content held by academic period based learning management systems.\n\nFlat World Knowledge provides instructor resources including test banks and lecture slides to registered and verified educators at no charge. Instructor testing and quiz materials are suitable for import into learning management systems. Specifically cited formats include[Blackboard Learning System, ANGEL, Moodle, and WebCT plus a Respondus Neutral Personality file suitable for import to compatible systems. Compatible systems cited by Respondus include those previously listed plus Desire2Learn and eCollege.\n\nUsage permissions granted automatically under the Creative Commons license assigned to Flat World textbooks lets users remix, annotate, and build upon the publication non-commercially as long as users give credit to the original author(s) and license their new creations under identical (share-alike) terms. Translations are also automatically permissible under these licenses, either complete or as embedded content within the English or other language text. Educators are allowed to edit, add their own content, or insert annotations in a self-service manner using the Flat World Knowledge publishing engine available over the Internet.\n\nCommercial use of published works requires an arrangement with the company and respective authors. Authors and the company are entitled to royalties from commercial use \"in any manner that is primarily intended for or directed toward commercial advantage or private monetary compensation\" according to license terms.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "50326857", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50326857", "title": "Friis &amp; Moltke", "text": "Friis &amp; Moltke\n\nFriis & Moltke is a Danish architectural practice headquartered in Aarhus with branch offices in Copenhagen and Aalborg. Friis & Moltke has about 50 employees and is mainly active in the Scandinavian market. The firm was founded in 1955 by the architects Knud Friis and Elmar Moltke Nielsen who met while working at C. F. Møller Architects in Aarhus. Today the company has 6 partners and 1 associated partner responsible for the department of furniture design.\n\nFriis & Moltke has designed many celebrated buildings across Denmark. The projects covers a multitude of functionalities including residential, educational, stadiums, churches, shopping malls, prisons, city halls, concert halls and hotels. A selection of the most notable comprise the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "331380", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=331380", "title": "Fuller Brooch", "text": "Fuller Brooch\n\nThe Fuller Brooch is an Anglo-Saxon silver and niello brooch dated to the late 9th century, which is now in the British Museum, where it is normally on display in Room 41. The elegance of the engraved decoration depicting the Five Senses, highlighted by being filled with niello, makes it one of the most highly regarded pieces of Anglo-Saxon art.\n\nThe brooch is a large disc made of hammered sheet silver inlaid with black niello and with a diameter of . Its centre roundel is decorated with personifications of the five senses. In the centre is Sight with large staring oval eyes, surrounded by the other four senses, each in his own compartment. Taste has a hand in his mouth. Smell's hands are behind his back, and he stands between two tall plants. Touch rubs his hands together. Hearing holds his hand to his ear. This is the earliest known representation of the five senses. The outer border consists of 16 small medallions decorated with human, bird, animal and plant motifs.\n\nStylistically it is \"in a very late version of the Trewhiddle style\". After the discovery of the Strickland Brooch, one of the closest parallels to the Fuller Brooch, also 9th century and in the British Museum, additional research determined that the niello used in the Fuller Brooch was mainly silver sulphide, a type that went out of use later in the medieval period, in itself an argument against it being a modern forgery.\n\nThe brooch has survived in excellent condition, although the pin and its attachments have been removed, and the top of the brooch has been perforated for suspension, and it may be the only surviving piece of secular Anglo-Saxon metalwork to remain unburied since its creation. It was thought to be a fake by Sir Charles Hercules Read, Keeper of British and Medieval Antiquities of the British Museum, because of its excellent condition. He advised the Ashmolean Museum in Oxford which had been lent the brooch, to take it off display. It was then bought by Captain A. W. F. Fuller for the price of the silver. In 1952 Capt. Fuller donated the brooch to the British Museum on the condition that it henceforth be called the Fuller Brooch.\n\n"}
{"id": "85643", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=85643", "title": "Fulton Opera House", "text": "Fulton Opera House\n\nThe Fulton Opera House, also known as the Fulton Theatre or simply The Fulton, is a League of Regional Theatres class B regional theater located in historic downtown Lancaster, Pennsylvania. It is reportedly the oldest working theatre in the United States. It was designated a National Historic Landmark in 1964.\n\nFulton Hall is named after Robert Fulton (1765-1815), Lancaster County's steam engine pioneer, and it is his likeness that is portrayed in the statue on the front facade. This statue is a replica of the original wooden statue, which has since been restored and now resides on display inside the interior lobby. The building itself was built on the foundation of Lancaster's pre-Revolutionary jail. In 1763, a vigilante gang known as the Paxton Boys massacred the Conestoga Indians being held there for their protection. This was a monumental event throughout the colonies and became the subject matter for the first plays ever written on American soil - \"A Dialogue Between Andrew Trueman and Thomas Zealot About the Killing the Indians at Cannestogoe and Lancaster\" and \"The Paxton Boys, a Farce\". The exterior wall of the jail courtyard is now the back wall of the theatre.\nChristopher Hager, a Lancaster merchant and civic leader, commissioned the renowned Philadelphia architect Samuel Sloan (who later designed the Lancaster County Courthouse) to create a building that would serve as a community center for meetings, lectures, concerts, and theatrical performances. The building was erected in 1852.\n\nThe Fulton Theatre was later modified by noted theatrical architect Edwin Forrest Durang, is one of only three theatres recognized as National Historic Landmarks (the others are the Walnut Street Theatre in Philadelphia and the Goldenrod Showboat in St. Louis, Missouri). \nThe 1959 production of \"Our Town\", starring Jeanne Clemson, marked that first time that a live theater production had been performed at the Fulton Opera House in thirty years.\n\nA founding member of the League of Historic American Theatres (LHAT), the Fulton is operated by the Fulton Theatre Company, a non-profit organization.\n\nAs the Fulton is run on a non-profit basis, it depends on a variety of grants, corporate sponsorship, and private donations to accomplish its mission. The Fulton is an Equity House, operating under agreement with the Actor's Equity Association and the Union for Professional Actors and Stage Managers (which essentially means that its actors and production team are paid per collective bargaining agreements, as opposed to non-equity actors who are not paid per collective bargaining agreements or volunteers) and employs members of the Stage Directors and Choreographers Society and the United Scenic Artists. The Fulton is also a member of ASSITEJ, the International Association of Theatre for Children and Young People.\n\nThe Fulton Theatre is home to six mainstage productions per year including previous productions of Disney's \"Newsies\", \"In The Heights\", Agatha Christie's \"The Mousetrap, some of which are world premier originals (critically acclaimed \"Lightning Rod\", 2005); four family series productions, including the Fulton's own 'Twas the Night Before Christmas,\" \"Aladdin\", J\"ack and the Beanstalk, the Musical\", and other theatre for young audiences productions; and four studio series productions, including the Pulitzer Prize-winning drama \"Disgraced\", along with other riveting productions like \"Venus in Fur\", \"Veronica's Room\" and \"Other Desert Cities\". Although most casting takes place in New York City, regional auditions are also held. While many of The Fulton's regulars are Lancaster County natives who are delighted at the chance to return home to perform, nearly all quickly fall in love with the \"Grand Old Lady\" and her charm.\n\nIn addition to providing a place of employment for professional actors, the Fulton Theatre Company is a complete production facility which employs full-time carpenters, electricians, scenic artists, painters, composers, lighting and sound technicians. Most set pieces and costumes are created in-house or at an adjacent workshop, and makeup, hair, and wigs are created by a full-time designer. The Fulton also maintains a costume shop which provides access to professional quality costumes and props to schools, community theatre companies, and other organizations throughout the region. Its marketing department maintains a website that allows users to browse theatre history, check audition times, and purchase tickets. All posters and print materials, including production programs, are cataloged and archived by the Lancaster Historical Society.\n\nMany famous actors have appeared at the Fulton. In December 1930 Basil Rathbone appeared as Christian St. Obin in \"A Kiss of Importance\". Peter Weir's film, \"Witness,\" starring Harrison Ford and Kelly McGillis, much of which represents the lifestyle of the Amish, premiered here in February, 1985.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "25028342", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25028342", "title": "Gukjeong chumyo", "text": "Gukjeong chumyo\n\nGukjeong chumyo is an 18th-century Korean painting depicting a crouching cat under wild chrysanthemum on an autumn day. It was drawn by Byeon Sang-byeok, a representative animal painter during the late period of the Korean Joseon Dynasty (1392–1910). \"Gukjeong chumyo\" literally means \"An autumn cat in a garden with chrysanthemum\" and is of the \"yeongmohwa\", or animal painting, genre. It is painted on paper with light coloring over the ink and wash painting (\"sumukhwa\"). The size of the painting is in height and in width. It is currently stored at Gansong Art Museum in Seoul, South Korea.\n\nByeon Sang-byeok is renowned for his skillful depictions of cats and chickens, so he was referred to by the nicknames \"Byeon goyangi\" (literally \"Byeon cat\") and \"Byeon dak\" (Byeon rooster) during his lifetime. His representative paintings include \"Myojakdo\" (Painting of Cats and Sparrows), and \"Hwajomyogudo\" (Painting of Flowers, Birds, and Puppies). The cat in the picture is crouching and gazing at something, and seems ready to swiftly run off.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "599443", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=599443", "title": "Henry Condell", "text": "Henry Condell\n\nHenry Condell (5 September 1576 (baptised) – December 1627) was an actor in the King's Men, the playing company for which William Shakespeare wrote. With John Heminges, he was instrumental in preparing and editing the First Folio, the collected plays of Shakespeare, published in 1623.\n\nCondell's early life is obscure. It appears that he may have been from East Anglia, as his will mentions 'my Cosen Gilder late of newe Buckenham’. According to Edmond:\n\nThe only Henry Condell so far discovered at a suitable date in that part of England was the son of a Robert Condell of St Peter Mancroft, Norwich, a fishmonger, and his wife, Joan, née Yeomans, of New Buckenham, a market town not far from Norwich. Henry Condell, presumably their son, was baptized at St Peter on 5 September 1576.\n\nTraditionally, he is associated with the \"Harry\" who appears in the cast list for Richard Tarlton's \"The Seven Deadly Sins\", but this identification is little more than conjecture. If the connection is true, then Condell was an actor as early as 1590, acting in Lord Strange's Men alongside John Heminges and Augustine Phillips. Condell was definitely in London by 24 October 1596, when he married, at St Laurence Pountney, Elizabeth Smart (d.1635), the only child of John Smart of the Strand, gentleman. They settled in St Mary Aldermanbury, the parish in which Heminges lived. Condell, like Heminges, served as churchwarden in that church. Nine children were baptized there, born between 1599 and 1614, of whom only three survived to adulthood: Elizabeth (baptized 26 October 1606), who married Herbert Finch; Henry (baptized 6 May 1610, died 1630); and William (baptized 26 May 1611).\n\nDetails of Condell's mature life, as is usual for Renaissance actors, are few. His status within the Lord Chamberlain's and King's companies appears to have been high; in official communications he is generally listed shortly after Burbage and Heminges. Actors' wills indicate that he was close to at least some of his colleagues in the company. Shakespeare and Phillips bequeathed him money for mourning rings; Nicholas Tooley and Alexander Cooke named him as trustee for their estates. Condell prospered enough in his profession to purchase a country home at Fulham in Middlesex and other property, including an estate called Brockhampton in Snowshill, Gloucestershire. The indentures recording the latter purchase contain the only known example of Condell's signature or handwriting apart from his last will.\n\nIn addition to \"Every Man in His Humour\" (1598) and \"Every Man Out of His Humour\" (1599), Condell is known to have performed in four more of Jonson's plays: \"Sejanus\" (1603), \"Volpone\" (1605), \"The Alchemist\" (1610), and \"\" (1611). He was the original Cardinal in John Webster's \"The Duchess of Malfi\" (c. 1613). And he was listed in eight of the cast lists that were added to the second Beaumont and Fletcher folio of 1679:\n\n\n\nCondell appears to have ended his stage career around 1619. He signed each of the nine sheets of his last will and testament on 13 December 1627. He died at Fulham aged 51, and was buried at St Mary Aldermanbury on 29 December 1627. His widow, Elizabeth, was buried there on 3 October 1635.\n\nCondell left an extensive estate, including shares in the Globe and Blackfriars Theatres.\n\nIn the 2016 sitcom \"Upstart Crow\", Henry Condell is played by Dominic Coleman.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24739810", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24739810", "title": "Hillel Roman", "text": "Hillel Roman\n\nHillel Roman (הלל רומן) is a visual artist living and working in Tel Aviv, Israel.\n\nRoman was born on April 16, 1975 in Los Angeles, California. At age 24 he joined Hamidrasha Art School, Beit Berl College, Israel. In 2004 Roman graduated from Tel-Aviv University, the Department for Poetics and Comparative Literature (magna cum laude), and in 2007 he received his Masters of Fine Arts from Goldsmiths College, University of London.\n\nRoman employs a wide range of techniques, from drawing, painting and conceptual art, through sculpting and etching, to building fully functional astronomical observatories. \n\nAfter his graduation from Beit Berl college, he assumed a teaching position there, and in the years 2004-2006 he lectured at Avni Institute of Art and Design in Tel Aviv. After having returned from his studies in London, he resumed his position at Beit Berl, and also accepted a teaching role at Thelma Yellin school of Fine Arts.\n\nIn 2007, Roman received a residency grant at Cite Internationale des Arts, Paris, France. In 2009, he won the Young Artist Prize from the Ministry of culture, Israel. The judging committee said about him: \"Roman's paintings, drawings and etchings, always beautiful and saturated... more than intending to delegate a (renewed) birth of beauty out of the banal, replicated and ordinary, they wish to confront the postmodern spectator with the question 'what is modern painting'...\"\n\nIn an interview with curator Orit Bulgaro in the catalog of Idiolect, an exhibition at the Bat Yam Museum of Contemporary Art in 2009, Roman discussed \"...the significance of the concrete versus the metaphorical, the human desire to get through the metaphor and to touch, the vain struggle to bridge the distance between the eye and the hand. Maybe that is the privilege of the painter/sculptor, and the source of his relevance, despite it all. In any case, I try to create objects or paintings that exist in that chasm between the concrete and the metaphorical; perhaps that is my way of trying to avoid filling any role.\"\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "37618099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37618099", "title": "Hot Art", "text": "Hot Art\n\nHot Art: Chasing Thieves and Detectives through the Secret World of Stolen Art is a non-fiction book, written by Canadian writer Joshua Knelman, first published in September 2011 by Douglas & McIntyre. In the book, the author chronicles his four-year investigation into the world of international art theft. Knelman traveled from Cairo to New York, London, Montreal, and Los Angeles compiling his book; which has been called \"A major work of investigative journalism\", and \"a globetrotting mystery filled with cunning and eccentric characters.\"\n\n\"Hot Art\" received the 2012 \"Arthur Ellis Award\" for \"Best Crime Nonfiction\". The book also received the 2012 \"Edna Staebler Award for Creative Non-Fiction\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49477975", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49477975", "title": "Impression Prods., Inc. v. Lexmark Int'l, Inc.", "text": "Impression Prods., Inc. v. Lexmark Int'l, Inc.\n\nImpression Products, Inc. v. Lexmark International, Inc., 581 U.S. ___ (2017), is a decision of the Supreme Court of the United States on the exhaustion doctrine in patent law in which the Court held that after the sale of a patented item, the patent holder cannot sue for patent infringement relating to further use of that item, even when in violation of a contract with a customer or imported from outside the United States. The case concerned a patent infringement lawsuit brought by Lexmark against Impression Products, Inc., which bought used ink cartridges, refilled them, replaced a microchip on the cartridge to circumvent a digital rights management scheme, and then resold them. Lexmark argued that as they own several patents related to the ink cartridges, Impression Products was violating their patent rights. The U.S. Supreme Court, reversing a 2016 decision of the Federal Circuit, held that the exhaustion doctrine prevented Lexmark's patent infringement lawsuit, although Lexmark could enforce restrictions on use or resale of its contracts with direct purchasers under regular contract law (but not as a patent infringement lawsuit). Besides printer and ink manufacturers, the decision of the case could affect the markets of high tech consumer goods and prescription drugs.\n\nLexmark International, Inc. makes and sells printers and toner cartridges for its printers. Lexmark owns a number of patents that cover its cartridges and their use. Lexmark sold the cartridges at issue in this case—some in the United States and some abroad.\n\nLexmark's domestic sales were in two categories. A \"Regular Cartridge\" is sold at \"list price\" and confers an absolute title and property right on the buyer. A \"Return Program Cartridge” is sold at a discount of about 20 percent, and is subject to post-sale restrictions: The buyer may not reuse the cartridge after the toner runs out and may not transfer it to anybody else. The first branch of the case turns on the legal status of these post-sale restrictions.\n\nLexmark manufactured the toner cartridges with microchips in them, which send signals to the printers indicating toner level. When the amount of toner in a cartridge falls below a certain level, the printer will not operate with that cartridge. Also, the printer will not operate with a Return Program Cartridge that has been refilled by a third party. Thus, Lexmark's technology prevented violation of the post-sale restriction against refilling the Return Program Cartridges. The Regular Cartridges do not have this anti-refill feature and can therefore be refilled and reused (but they cost 20 percent more).\n\n“To circumvent this technological measure,” however, “third parties have ‘hacked’ the Lexmark microchips. They created their own \"unauthorized replacement\" microchips that, when installed in a Return Program cartridge, fool the printer into allowing reuse of that cartridge. Various companies purchase used Return Program Cartridges from the customers who bought them from Lexmark. They replace the microchips with \"unauthorized replacement\" microchips, refill the cartridges with toner, and sell the \"re-manufactured\" cartridges to resellers such as Impression Products for marketing to consumers for use with Lexmark printers. Lexmark had previously argued in \"Lexmark International, Inc. v. Static Control Components, Inc.\" that replacing these microchips violated copyright law and the Digital Millennium Copyright Act (DMCA), but both federal and the Supreme Court have ruled against Lexmark, affirming that replacing the microchips is not in violation of copyright.\n\nThe second branch of the case involves cartridges that Lexmark sold outside the US. While some of the foreign-sold cartridges were Regular Cartridges and some were Return Program Cartridges, this branch of the case does not involve any distinction among the two types of imported cartridges.\n\nThe district court granted Impression's motion to dismiss Lexmark's claim of infringement involving the single-use cartridges Lexmark had first sold in the United States. The district court concluded that the Supreme Court in \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\" found exhaustion where “the Supreme Court determined that the agreements [at issue] broadly authorized Intel [the seller] to sell the licensed products without restrictions or conditions.\" The district court said “that \"Quanta\" overruled \"Mallinckrodt\" \"sub silentio\",” and therefore \"those post-sale use restrictions do not prevent patent rights from being exhausted given that the initial sales were authorized and unrestricted.\" \n\nThe district court held, however, that the exhaustion doctrine did not apply to the cartridges that Lexmark had sold abroad. It said that international exhaustion did not apply to patents because \"Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.\", which established international exhaustion in at least some cases, applied only to copyrights. The court therefore denied Impression's motion to dismiss Lexmark's claim of infringement involving the cartridges Lexmark had sold abroad.\n\nIn its \"amicus curiae\" brief, the US Government argued that \"Mallinckrodt\" had been wrongly decided in 1992 and in any case it had been overruled \"sub silentio\" in \"Quanta\". It stated:\nIn the view of the United States, the first authorized sale of a patented article in the United States wholly exhausts the patentee’s exclusive rights in that article, notwithstanding any post-sale restriction imposed by the patentee.\nThe government also argued that the decision of \"Jazz Photo Corp. v. United States International Trade Commission\" (2001) should be partially overruled in light of \"Kirtsaeng\" insofar as it held that foreign sales can \"never\" exhaust US patent rights. When the patentee neither makes nor authorizes a foreign sale, as occurred in \"Boesch v. Graff\", it is proper to say no exhaustion occurred. But when the patentee makes or authorizes a foreign sale, and fails expressly to reserve its US rights, then exhaustion should be found. In the present case, Lexmark made the foreign sales and failed to expressly reserve its US rights; therefore, the sale exhausted the patent rights.\n\nThe parties each appealed. After a three judge panel had heard oral argument the Federal Circuit \"sua sponte\" set the case for argument \"en banc\" in the first instance and invited the filing of \"amicus curiae\" briefs.\n\nJudge Taranto, writing for a 10-2 majority, reaffirmed both of the prior Federal Circuit rulings. In summary, the court held:\n\nFirst, we adhere to the holding of \"Mallinckrodt, Inc. v. Medipart, Inc.\" that a patentee, when selling a patented article subject to a single-use/no-resale restriction that is lawful and clearly communicated to the purchaser, does not by that sale give the buyer, or downstream buyers, the resale/reuse authority that has been expressly denied. Such resale or reuse, when contrary to the known, lawful limits on the authority conferred at the time of the original sale, remains unauthorized and therefore remains infringing conduct under the terms of § 271. Under Supreme Court precedent, a patentee may preserve its § 271 rights through such restrictions when licensing others to make and sell patented articles; \"Mallinckrodt\" held that there is no sound legal basis for denying the same ability to the patentee that makes and sells the articles itself. We find \"Mallinckrodt\"’s principle to remain sound after the Supreme Court’s decision in \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\" . . .<br><br>\n\nSecond, we adhere to the holding of \"Jazz Photo Corp. v. International Trade Comm’n\", that a U.S. patentee, merely by selling or authorizing the sale of a U.S.-patented article abroad, does not authorize the buyer to import the article and sell and use it in the United States, which are infringing acts in the absence of patentee-conferred authority. \"Jazz Photo\"’s no-exhaustion ruling recognizes that foreign markets under foreign sovereign control are not equivalent to the U.S. markets under U.S. control in which a U.S. patentee’s sale presumptively exhausts its rights in the article sold. A buyer may still rely on a foreign sale as a defense to infringement, but only by establishing an express or implied license—a defense separate from exhaustion, as \"Quanta\" holds—based on patentee communications or other circumstances of the sale. We conclude that \"Jazz Photo\"’s no-exhaustion principle remains sound after the Supreme Court’s decision in \"Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.\", in which the Court did not address patent law or whether a foreign sale should be viewed as conferring authority to engage in otherwise-infringing domestic acts. \"Kirtsaeng\" is a copyright case holding that 17 U.S.C. § 109(a) entitles owners of copyrighted articles to take certain acts “without the authority” of the copyright holder. There is no counterpart to that provision in the Patent Act, under which a foreign sale is properly treated as neither conclusively nor even presumptively exhausting the U.S. patentee’s rights in the United States.\n\nIn this part of its opinion, the Federal Circuit reaffirmed its \"Mallincrodt\" decision and rejected contentions that \"Quanta\" had silently overruled it.\n\nThe court began by distinguishing the Patent Act's and Copyright Act's respective approaches to infringement. in 17 U.S.C. § 109(a) the Copyright Act says, \"Notwithstanding the provisions of section 106(3),\" defining infringement by selling, a purchaser \"is entitled, without the authority of the copyright owner, to sell or otherwise dispose of the possession\" of a purchased copy of a work. In contrast, the Patent Act contains no exhaustion provision. Therefore, the Patent Act requires a \"conferral of 'authority' by the patentee . . . in order for the actions listed in § 271(a) not to constitute infringement.\" This means there must be \"permission from the patentee\" to avoid infringement. The court does not accept exhaustion as a form of \"constructive\" permission. Hence, if the patentee places explicit limits or conditions on its permission, they qualify the scope of the permission. This has the effect of limiting the common law.\n\nThe court turned to the \"General Talking Pictures\" decision, which holds \"that Lexmark would not have exhausted its patent rights in those cartridges, upon the manufacturing licensee’s sale (the first sale), if a buyer with knowledge of the restrictions resold or reused them in violation of the restrictions.\" Although the government in its \"amicus curiae\" brief and defendant Impression argue \"that a different result is required—that Lexmark automatically lost its patent rights—simply because Lexmark sold the Return Program cartridges itself, subject to the same communicated restriction, rather than having left the manufacture and sale to others under license,\" the court does not accept that:\n\nWe conclude otherwise, as we did in \"Mallinckrodt\" and subsequent decisions. A sale made under a clearly communicated, otherwise-lawful restriction as to post-sale use or resale does not confer on the buyer and a subsequent purchaser the \"authority\" to engage in the use or resale that the restriction precludes. And there is no sound reason, and no Supreme Court precedent, requiring a distinction that gives less control to a practicing-entity patentee that makes and sells its own product than to a non-practicing-entity patentee that licenses others to make and sell the product.\n\nThe court turned to the \"Quanta\" decision and found it inapplicable to the present issues. \"'Quanta did not involve a patentee’s sale at all, let alone one subject to a restriction or, more particularly, a single-use/no-resale restriction.\" Rather, \"Quanta\" involved a patentee's (LGE's) license to a manufacturer (Intel) that sold to the accused infringer (Quanta). LGE had not limited Intel's license to manufacture the patented product, although it imposed contractual obligations on Intel. \"No conditions limited Intel’s authority to sell products substantially embodying the patents.\" The Federal Circuit emphasized: \"There were no patentee sales, and there were no restrictions on the sales made by the licensee.\" Those facts were removed from the case at bar. Thus the \"Quanta\" \"Court’s discussion of that issue does not undermine \"Mallinckrodt\" ’s ruling that a patentee can preserve its patent rights through restrictions on its sales.\" The Federal Circuit also emphasized as significant the failure of the \"Quanta\" Court to explicitly repudiate \"Mallinckrodt\" despite the fact that in its \"amicus\" brief \"the government prominently featured an argument that \"Mallinckrodt\" was incorrect and should be repudiated.\"\n\nThe court then turned to the prior Supreme Court cases. Reviewing them, it found that although they used sweeping language that a patentee's sale of the patented product placed it beyond the reach of the patent, so that no post-sale restriction could be enforced under the patent laws, that language went beyond the actual facts of the cases. First, the sales were in most cases without any condition or restriction on what the buyer might do with the product. Second, in the cases where an explicit condition or restriction was imposed, the case involved a tie-in or a price-fix.\n\nThe Court conceded that in the \"General Electric\" case, the Supreme Court had said: “It is well settled, as already said, that where a patentee makes the patented article, and sells it, he can exercise no future control over what the purchaser may wish to do with the article after his purchase. It has passed beyond the scope of the patentee’s rights.” But that case involved an antitrust challenge to GE's distribution of lamps that did not meet that description. The case involved price restrictions on a licensed manufacturer. The Federal Circuit then explained that the word \"settled\" in the Supreme Court's statement had a special, narrow meaning:\n\"We read that language to deem 'settled' only what was settled in the cited precedents—a patentee’s sales \"without restrictions\" exhaust patent rights in the item sold.\" Thus, the Supreme Court's sweeping exhaustion language applies precedentially only to cases in which either the sale was without condition or restriction or else the sale was made with a tie-in or price-fixing condition. \"But the Court did not rule that all restrictions on a patentee’s sale were ineffective to preserve the patentee’s patent-law rights.\"\n\nSimilarly, in \"United States v. Univis Lens Co.\", the Supreme Court's sweeping language must now be limited to the factual context of the case:\n\nMoreover, although some language in \"Univis\", like language in other decisions in the area, can be taken out of context and read as going beyond the specific restrictions involved, the most the Court ruled, even as to patent law all by itself, was that a vertical price-control restriction was ineffective to preserve patent rights after sales of articles embodying the patents. While \"Univis\" is controlling on what it decided on the issues before it, we do not think it appropriate to give broad effect to language in \"Univis\", taken out of context, to support an otherwise-unjustified conclusion here on a question not faced there.\n\nThe Federal Circuit therefore drew this conclusion from the past series of Supreme Court cases on exhaustion:\n\nFor the foregoing reasons, we think that the best lesson to draw from the Supreme Court’s precedents, as applied to the question before us, is that a patentee may preserve its patent rights by otherwise-proper restrictions when it makes and sells patented articles itself and not only when it contracts out manufacturing and sales.\n\nThe Federal Circuit returned to the common law and Lord Coke's commentary on it. Again, the court insisted that Congress had overridden the common law's prohibitions on post-sale restraints, in order to promote technological progress:\n\n[W]hatever considerations might go into a jurisdiction’s choice as to the background rule for personal property in general, lawmaking authorities may reasonably make different choices for particular kinds of property. Notably, as to intellectual property in its various forms, Congress, implementing the Constitution, has long deemed it important to incentivize creation and disclosure through grants to the creator of rights to exclude others for a time. . . . That overriding legislative prescription removes the patented-article sale from the scope of Lord Coke’s 1628 description of his country’s general judicially fashioned property law. . . . In short, notwithstanding Lord Coke’s description of English general personal-property judge-made law, the patent-specific statutory analysis must govern here.\n\nThe court then turned to what it called \"the likely real-world consequences of one answer or another to the exhaustion question presented here.\" The court noted that in \"Kirtsaeng\" the Supreme Court had envisioned serious adverse effects on competition unless Coke's 1628 property law rules were followed. The Federal Circuit said that did not apply to patents:\n\n[W]e see no basis for predicting the extreme, lop-sided impacts the Court found plausible in \"Kirtsaeng\" in different circumstances. \"Mallinckrodt\" has been the governing case law since 1992 and has been reiterated in subsequent precedent. And yet we have been given no reliable demonstration of widespread problems not being solved in the marketplace. Given \"General Talking Pictures\", the only question is about patentees’ ability to do for their own sales what they already can do by contracting out their manufacturing and sales. Regarding the specific scenario we are addressing today—in which the patentee has sought to preserve its patent rights by conditioning its first sale on a single-use/no-resale restriction of which the accused infringer had adequate notice at the time of purchase—we have been given no proof of a significant problem with enforcing patent rights.\n\nFurthermore, the Federal Circuit maintained, the conduct challenged here can have benefits. Under Lexmark's program, customers who agree to the restriction pay a lower price than those who do not. It could be that the companies that refill the cartridges use inferior products that could harm the Lexmark machines, which \"could harm Lexmark’s reputation.\" To assume that the restrictions are illegitimate would run counter to the trends \"over the last four decades, that have displaced the strict condemnation of various vertical restrictions that characterized\" earlier antitrust and patent-misuse law in the first part of the twentieth century. “Field-of-use, territorial, and other limitations on intellectual property licenses may serve procompetitive ends by allowing the licensor to exploit its property as efficiently and effectively as possible.” Therefore, the court concluded it is appropriate to apply to post-sale restrictions the same tolerance that the \"General Talking Pictures\" doctrine accords limitations in manufacturing licenses.\n\nIn this part of its opinion, the Federal Circuit reaffirmed it \"Jazz Photo\" opinion and rejected contentions that \"Kirtsaeng\" had undermined the basis for \"Jazz Photo\". The Federal Circuit insisted that \"\"Kirtsaeng\" says nothing about patent law.\"\n\nThe court emphasized the differences between patent law and copyright law. For example, patent law gives patentees an exclusive right to use of the invention but copyright law gives no general exclusionary right as to use (it gives exclusive public performance and display \"use\" rights, but not others). Also, it is much more costly and time-consuming to obtain a patent than a copyright. The court did not explain, however, the way that or other differences between copyrights and patents called for contrary results as to international exhaustion.\n\nThe court did say that the US patent statute gives patentees the reward available from \"sales in American markets, not from sales in foreign markets.\" A sale in a foreign market therefore does not furnish a proper basis for finding exhaustion. \"American markets differ substantially from markets in many other countries, and not just because of disparities in wealth that can lead to dramatically different prices\" in this country and abroad (as was the case in \"Kirtsaeng\"). \"Government policies differ dramatically, including policies on price regulation and, most particularly, policies on the availability and scope of patent protection.\" The court did not explain further, however, whether and how such dramatic differences in policy applied to the toner cartridges at issue in the present case.\n\nThe court then turned to the only Supreme Court case on foreign exhaustion, \"Boesch v. Graff\". In that case, Graff was the assignee of a US patent. Boesch bought the product from a German supplier who had a prior-user right under German law to make and sell the product, because the supplier had begun activity before the application for the German counterpart patent was filed. The US assignee and the inventor had no connection with Boesch. When Graff imported the product into the US, Boesch sued for infringement. The US courts found Boesch liable. The rights that Boesch had under German law did not entitle him to import the product into the US. That is governed by US law. The US patentee had never \"received any royalty or given any license to use the patented article in any part of the United States.\"\nAccordingly, the court held, a foreign sale does not of its own force authorize importation into the US.\n\nThis does not mean, however, that a patentee by its conduct cannot waive its US rights, be estopped from asserting them, or be found to have granted an implied license.\n\nThe court expressed concern that overruling \"Jazz Photo\" would harm the US drug industry:\n\nThere seems to be no dispute that U.S.-patented medicines are often sold outside the United States at substantially lower prices than those charged here and, also, that the practice could be disrupted by the increased arbitrage opportunities that would come from deeming U.S. rights eliminated by a foreign sale made or authorized by the U.S. patentee.There seems to be no dispute that U.S.-patented medicines are often sold outside the United States at substantially lower prices than those charged here and, also, that the practice could be disrupted by the increased arbitrage opportunities that would come from deeming U.S. rights eliminated by a foreign sale made or authorized by the U.S. patentee.\n\nFinally, the court rejected a proposal that exhaustion should be presumed unless the patentee express states that it reserves its US rights. Foreign governments might \"prohibit sellers from stating reservations of rights that would make importation into and sale in the United States more difficult.\" Also: \"Intermediary companies between the foreign purchase and the importation into the United States may be created that make it difficult for the U.S. patentee to carry an affirmative burden of proving adequate notice of reservations attached to a foreign-sold article.\"\n\nJudge Dyk, joined by Judge Hughes, dissented from both branches of the court's exhaustion analysis. Judge Dyk summarized his dissent in these terms:\n\nI would overrule our decision in \"Mallinckrodt\" as inconsistent with governing Supreme Court authority and overrule \"Jazz Photo\" to the extent that it imposes a blanket ban on foreign exhaustion. I would recognize foreign exhaustion where the U.S. rights holder has not notified the buyer of its retention of the U.S. patent rights.\n\nIn this part of the dissent, Judge Dyk argued that the majority had misunderstood the Supreme Court's exhaustion jurisprudence in order to substitute its own ideas of the proper balance between patent rights and public rights. He began by saying:\n\nFirst, I agree with the government that \"Mallinckrodt\" was wrong when decided, and in any event cannot be reconciled with the Supreme Court’s recent decision in \"Quanta Computer, Inc. v. LG Electronics, Inc.\" We exceed our role as a subordinate court by declining to follow the explicit domestic exhaustion rule announced by the Supreme Court.\n\nHe argued that since 1850 the Supreme Court has held that a sale by the patentee or its licensee exhausts all patent rights. In such cases, \"The question of whether the seller has 'authorized' the buyer to use or resell the item is simply irrelevant.\" Post-sale restrictions could not be enforced under federal patent law. The only Supreme Court case to depart from that principle was \"Henry v. A.B. Dick Co.\", and it was explicitly overruled five years later by \"Motion Picture Patents Co. v. Universal Film Mfg. Co.\" The principle of the overruled \"Dick\" case that a patentee could impost a post-sale restriction by giving a buyer notice of it was \"the same as the panel’s holding in \"Mallinckrodt\" and the majority’s holding in this case.\"\n\nHe insisted that the majority opinion misread the \"Motion Picture Patents\" decision by asserting \"that it only 'held particular restrictions improper' . . . but 'did not rule that all restrictions on a patentee’s sale were ineffective to preserve the patentee’s patent-law rights.'\" He explained:\n\nThat is not accurate. \"Motion Picture Patents\" did not leave behind the remnants of \"A.B. Dick\"—minus tie-ins and resale price maintenance. To the contrary, the Court in \"Motion Picture Patents\" found that “[t]he patent law furnishes no warrant for” the restrictions imposed by the patent owner.\n\nLater cases, such as \"Quanta\", confirmed this \"broad patent exhaustion rule [in \"Motion Picture Patents\"] and left no room for a resurrection of \"A.B. Dick\".\"\n\nHe next turned to the majority's referenced to \"conditional sales\" and \"unconditional sales,\" and said that the majority misconstrued the terms. \"Conditional sales,\" he said, as used in pre-\"Mallinckrodt\" case law referred only to the retention of title for a security interest in installment purchases. \"In other words, a sale with restrictions could nonetheless be an 'unconditional' sale in which title passes, with the restrictions invalid under the patent laws because of exhaustion.\"\n\nHe then criticized the majority for making up special rules for patent cases that differed from the common law and general legal principles, citing Supreme Court admonitions not to do that--\"The Supreme Court has repeatedly instructed us not to ignore traditional legal principles to fashion rules 'unique to patent disputes.'\"\n\nFinally, Judge Dyk took issue on multiple grounds with the majority's efforts to distinguish and limit the Supreme Court's rulings. \"The majority’s justifications for refusing to follow Supreme Court authority establishing the exhaustion rule misconceive our role as a subordinate court.\" Each justification in the majority decision was unsupportable, he said.\n\n\n\nDyk concluded his discussion of domestic exhaustion with the statement: \"There is, in sum, no colorable basis for the majority’s failure to follow the exhaustion rule for domestic sales as articulated by the Court in \"Quanta\" and numerous other cases.\"\n\nIn this part of the dissent, Judge Dyk argued for a nuanced balance that called for different results depending on whether the patentee was responsible for the sale abroad that was alleged to trigger exhaustion.\n\nHe began by pointing out that because Lexmark's foreign sales were made without any restrictions or reservations, \"even under the majority’s cramped view of exhaustion, there is no question that the sales would have exhausted Lexmark’s domestic patent rights. The issue is whether the foreign location of the sale should lead to a different result, as we previously held in \"Jazz Photo\".\"\n\nHe then turned to \"the centerpiece of the majority’s holding that there is a doctrinal blanket ban on foreign exhaustion, namely the Supreme Court’s decision in \"Boesch v. Graff\". But \"\"Boesch\" announced no such blanket ban,\" he said. \"It did not even involve an authorized sale by the holder of U.S. patent rights but rather a sale by a third party under a foreign law’s prior use exception.\" But \"\"Boesch\" does not apply here because the foreign sales were made by Lexmark.\"\n\nIn every US lower court decision before \"Jazz Photo\": \"When the sale was made by an entity not holding U.S. patent rights, as in \"Boesch\", or when the authorized foreign seller clearly reserved U.S. rights, there was no exhaustion.\" In contrast, \"where the foreign sale was made by a seller holding U.S. patent rights without a contractual reservation of U.S. rights, exhaustion occurred as a result of an authorized foreign sale.\"\n\nDyk maintained that \"\"Kirtsaeng\" provides significant guidance and cannot be dismissed as simply a copyright case, or as limited to the 'first sale' provision of the Copyright Act.\" Rather, the policies that animated \"Kirtsaeng\" typically apply to patent exhaustion. But because in some cases a difference may be significant, there should be abalanced approach. Dyk argued for \"put[ting] the burden on the U.S. rights holder to provide notice of a reservation of U.S. rights to the purchaser.\" Thus, he \"would recognize foreign exhaustion where the U.S. rights holder has not notified the buyer of its retention of the U.S. patent rights.\"\n\nIn March 2016, Impression filed a petition for \"certiorari\" in the U.S. Supreme Court. Impression presented these questions in its petition:\n\nOn June 20, 2016, the Court invited the Solicitor General to file briefs in this case expressing the views of the United States. In October 2016, the government filed the requested \"amicus curiae\" brief. It recommended grant of \"certiorari\" on both questions. The brief argues that the \"Federal Circuit's decision misreads\" the Supreme Court's precedents and \"would substantially erode the exhaustion doctrine.\" The Supreme Court granted \"certiorari\" on December 2, 2016 and heard oral argument in the case on March 21, 2017. The Court published its decisions on May 30, 2017.\n\nA unanimous Court found that Lexmark exhausted its patent rights upon first sale domestically, even with the single-use/no-resale restrictions imposed by Lexmark in contracts with its customers, although such restrictions could be enforced under contract law. The Court noted that the exhaustion doctrine has a long history and that any change would have significant effects on commerce in the modern world, noting that \"extending the patent rights beyond the first sale would clog the channels of commerce, with little benefit from the extra control that the patentees retain,\" noting that complex modern supply chains can involve large numbers of patents. Chief Justice Roberts, in his opinion, compared the situation to automobile repair shops: \"The business works because the shop can rest assured that, so long as those bringing in the cars own them, the shop is free to repair and resell those vehicles. That smooth flow of commerce would sputter if companies that make the thousands of parts that go into a vehicle could keep their patent rights after the first sale.\"\n\nSeven justices joined the Court's opinion extending that reasoning to items imported from abroad. Lexmark had argued, and the Federal Circuit agreed, that sale abroad \"does not trigger patent exhaustion unless the patentee 'expressly or implicitly transfers or licenses' its rights.\" The Court, however, ruled that \"[a]n authorized sale outside the United States, just as one within the United States, exhausts all rights under the Patent Act.\" The Court relied on its 2013 decision in \"Kirtsaeng v. John Wiley & Sons, Inc.\" on a nearly identical issue under copyright law. Because the underlying statute was not clear as to its geographical scope, the Court in \"Kirtsaeng\" decided that, because the statute was based in the common law exhaustion doctrine, which is not limited in geographic extent, the statute at issue was therefore not intended to be limited to only U.S. sales. Applying the same principle to patent law, which historically has a close connection with copyright law, was \"straightforward\" and \"the bond between [copyright and patent law] leaves no room for a rift on the question of international exhaustion\".\n\nJustice Ginsburg dissented from the Court's holding with respect to imported items. Adhering to substantially the same reasoning of her dissent in \"Kirtsaeng\", Justice Ginsburg argued that because patent law is territorial and the sale of an item abroad is \"independent[] of the U.S. patent system, it makes little sense to say that such a sale exhausts an inventor's U.S. patent rights.\" She would have upheld the Federal Circuit's decision that sale abroad does not exhaust a patentee's rights in the United States.\n\nRobert M. Gerstein concluded that further review in the Supreme Court was likely:\nGiven the Supreme Court’s interest in patent cases, a vigorous dissent in \"Lexmark\" that relies on a number of Supreme Court precedents, including \"Quanta\" and \"Kirtsaeng\", and the position of the Justice Department that \"Quanta\" overruled \"Mallinckrodt\", it would not be surprising to see the Supreme Court take up Lexmark in its next term.\n\nJeff C. Dodd and Matthew J. Dowd viewed the decision as an affirmation of strong patent rights:\n\"Lexmark\" embraces a very strong view of patent rights and a narrow view of the scope of exhaustion. It affirms that patent holders have wide latitude to segment and control distribution in the market channels for products covered by patents. This latitude is particularly wide with respect to limiting the import into the United States of patented goods sold in authorized sales in foreign markets even where restrictions on resale were not proven to have been communicated to foreign buyers. Even so, the court left open the possibility that foreign sales, under the right circumstances, may incorporate an implied license to import and use the product within the United States.\n\nKevin J. Cukierski and Adam H. Masia see the decision as \"pro-patent owner\" but warn again premature celebration:\nBut take caution—it is likely that the Supreme Court will be asked to hear the case. Given the tension between this case and the Supreme Court’s language in \"Quanta\" and \"Kirtsaeng\", along with the discord at the district court level and among commentators before the Federal Circuit’s decision, there’s a good chance the Supreme Court will do so. Until the Supreme Court has its say, you should take precautions in case the Supreme Court takes an expansive view of patent exhaustion and decides to remove these exceptions.\n\nAnother commentator (unsigned comment) indicated a skeptical view of the Federal Circuit's tendency to march to a different drummer. After quoting Judge Dyk's admonition, “We exceed our role as a subordinate court by declining to follow the explicit domestic exhaustion rule announced by the Supreme Court,” he (or she) observed:\nFor present purposes, it is simply worth noting that the Federal Circuit appears to be inching closer again to the concept that patent law is simply a unique beast, with unique rules and requirements. The Supreme Court has taken a skeptical view of that approach in the past. And may well again.\n\nPaul Jahn, Rufus Pichler and Lincoln Lo raise many questions (mostly about \"clear communication\") about what the \"Lexmark\" majority opinion left unresolved:\n\n\nGregory A. Castanias, Kelsey I. Nix, and Daniel Kazhdan also point to unresolved issues over which patent owners \"must still be cautious\":\n\"Lexmark\" explicitly left open several fact-specific questions, including (i) what happens if someone acquires a patented article with \"less than actual knowledge\" of the restrictions placed on the original sale by the patent owner and (ii) when would a foreign buyer have an \"implied license\" to sell in the United States, independent of patent exhaustion. These issues will surely be raised in future cases.\n\nDennis Crouch, in \"Patently-O\" commented on the issues and provided a summary of the merits briefs filed in the Supreme Court as of January 31, 2017. Crouch opposed the Federal Circuit's ruling on these grounds:\nWith personal property courts long ago rejected servitudes (such as use and resale restrictions) that bind subsequent purchasers. Unlike real property, personal property moves and is often transferred without substantial paperwork or record-keeping, and allowing a set of unique restrictions has the potential of gumming up the marketplace. The Federal Circuit in this case went all the way to the other side — holding that the presumption in foreign sales is that no US patent rights are exhausted. I purchased my last couple of smart phones through the used market – and have also repaired them several times. Under the law, I probably should have taken steps to ensure that all of the original equipment manufacturers affirmatively granted repair and resale rights. Coming together, the Federal Circuit’s approach here has the potential to limit the market for the repair and reselling of goods. I would suggest that those activities are incredibly beneficial to our society in terms of resource allocation and avoiding waste as well as empowering citizens and avoiding anticompetitive market behavior.\n\n"}
{"id": "28254799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28254799", "title": "James Dyson Award", "text": "James Dyson Award\n\nThe James Dyson Award is an international student design award that challenges young people to, \"design something that solves a problem\". The contest is open to university level students (or recent graduates) in the fields of product design, industrial design and engineering. The award is run by the James Dyson Foundation, James Dyson’s charitable trust, as part of its mission to get young people excited about design engineering.\n\nTo qualify students must have studied in: Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, China, France, Germany, Ireland,\nIndia, Italy, Japan, Korea, Malaysia, Netherlands, New Zealand, Russia, Singapore, Spain, Switzerland, Taiwan, United Kingdom or the United States.\n\nOne national winner and four finalists are chosen from each country. James Dyson selects an international winner for the overall prize.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4353451", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4353451", "title": "Jewish American literature", "text": "Jewish American literature\n\nJewish American literature holds an essential place in the literary history of the United States. It encompasses traditions of writing in English, primarily, as well as in other languages, the most important of which has been Yiddish. While critics and authors generally acknowledge the notion of a distinctive corpus and practice of writing about Jewishness in America, many writers resist being pigeonholed as \"Jewish voices.\" Also, many nominally Jewish writers cannot be considered representative of Jewish American literature, one example being Isaac Asimov.\n\nBeginning with the memoirs and petitions composed by the Sephardic immigrants who arrived in America during the mid 17th century, Jewish American writing grew over the subsequent centuries to flourish in other genres as well, including fiction, poetry, and drama.The first notable voice in Jewish- American literature was Emma Lazarus whose poem \"The New Colossus\" on the Statue of Liberty became the great hymnal of American immigration. Gertrude Stein became one of the most influential prose-stylists of the early 20th century.\n\nThe early twentieth century saw the appearance of two pioneering American Jewish novels: Abraham Cahan's \"The Rise of David Levinsky\" and Henry Roth's \"Call it Sleep.\" It reached some of its most mature expression in the 20th century \"Jewish American novels\" by Saul Bellow, J. D. Salinger, Norman Mailer, Bernard Malamud, Chaim Potok, and Philip Roth. Their work explored the conflicting pulls between secular society and Jewish tradition which were acutely felt by the immigrants who passed through Ellis Island and by their children and grandchildren.\n\nMore recent authors like Nicole Krauss, Paul Auster, Michael Chabon, Jonathan Safran Foer, Alan Kaufman, Lev Raphael and Art Spiegelman have continued to examine dilemmas of identity in their work, turning their attention especially to the Holocaust and the trends of both ongoing assimilation and cultural rediscovery exhibited by younger generations of American Jews. Arguably the most influential of all American Jewish novels was Leon Uris' \"Exodus\". Its story of the struggle to create the modern state of Israel translated into Russian became the inspiration for hundreds of thousands of Russian immigrants to Israel. Modern Jewish American novels often contain (a few or many) Jewish characters and address issues and themes of importance to Jewish American society such as assimilation, Zionism/Israel, and antisemitism, along with the recent phenomenon known as \"New antisemitism.\"\n\nThree Jewish-American writers have won the Nobel Prize in Literature, Isaac Bashevis Singer, Saul Bellow, and Joseph Brodsky. Magazines such as \"The New Yorker\" have proved to be instrumental in exposing many Jewish American writers to a wider reading public.\n\nAlthough Jewish stereotypes first appeared in works by non-Jewish writers, after World War II, it was often Jewish American writers themselves who evoked such fixed images. The prevalence of antisemitic stereotypes in the works of such authors has sometimes been interpreted an expression of self-hatred; however, Jewish American authors have also used these negative stereotypes in order to refute them.\n\nHowever, American-Jewish literature has also strongly celebrated American life. It has been primarily more an American than a Jewish literature. Perhaps the preeminent example of this is the great breakthrough novel of Saul Bellow \"The Adventures of Augie March\".\n\nAccording to Sanford V. Sternlicht, the first generation of Jewish-American authors presented \"realistic portrayals - warts and all\" of Jewish immigrants. In contrast, some second or third-generation Jewish-American authors deliberately \"reinforced negative stereotypes with satire and a selective realism\".\n\n\n\nThese links are currently unavailable.\n\n"}
{"id": "53458240", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53458240", "title": "List of Archibald Prize 1995 finalists", "text": "List of Archibald Prize 1995 finalists\n\nThis is a list of finalists for the 1995 Archibald Prize for portraiture (listed is Artist – \"Title\").\n\nThe winners of the 1995 Archibald Prizes were:\n\nThe finalists were:\n\n"}
{"id": "52008224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=52008224", "title": "List of Marathi cinema actresses", "text": "List of Marathi cinema actresses\n\nThis is a list of Marathi cinema actresses. Marathi cinema refers to Indian films produced in Marathi, the language of the state of Maharashtra, India. Based in old Mumbai, it is the oldest and one of the pioneer film industries of India.\n"}
{"id": "863650", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=863650", "title": "List of Olympic medalists in art competitions", "text": "List of Olympic medalists in art competitions\n\nThere were 146 medalists in the art competitions that were part of the Olympic Games from 1912 until 1948. These art competitions were considered an integral part of the movement by International Olympic Committee (IOC) founder Pierre de Coubertin and necessary to recapture the complete essence of the Ancient Olympic Games. Their absence before the 1912 Summer Olympics, according to journalism professor Richard Stanton, stems from Coubertin \"not wanting to fragment the focus of his new and fragile movement\". Art competitions were originally planned for inclusion in the 1908 Summer Olympics but were delayed after that edition's change in venue from Rome to London following the 1906 eruption of Mount Vesuvius. By the 1924 Summer Olympics they had grown to be considered internationally relevant and potentially \"a milestone in advancing public awareness of art as a whole\".\n\nDuring their first three appearances, the art competitions were grouped into five broad categories: architecture, literature, music, painting, and sculpture. The Dutch Organizing Committee for the 1928 Summer Olympics split these into subcategories in the hopes of increasing participation. Although it was a successful strategy, the 1932 Summer Olympics eliminated several of these subcategories, which led to fewer entries in the broader categories. For the 1936 Summer Olympics, the German government proposed the addition of a film contest to the program, which was rejected.\n\nFollowing a final appearance at the 1948 Summer Olympics, art competitions were removed from the Olympic program. Planners of the 1952 Summer Olympics opposed their inclusion on logistical grounds, claiming that the lack of an international association for the event meant that the entire onus of facilitation was placed on the local organizing committee. Concerns were also raised about the professionalism of the event, since only amateurs were allowed to participate in the sporting tournaments, and the growing commercialization of the competitions, as artists had been permitted to sell their submissions during the course of the Games since 1928. In 1952 an art festival and exhibition was held concurrent with the Games, a tradition that has been maintained in all subsequent Summer Olympics.\n\nThe IOC does not track medalists in Olympic art competitions in its database and thus the prize winners are only officially recorded in the original Olympic reports. Judges were not required to distribute first, second, and third place awards for every category, and thus certain events lack medalists in these placements. Since participants were allowed multiple submissions, it was also possible for artists to win more than one in a single event, as Alex Diggelmann of Switzerland did in the graphic arts category of the 1948 edition. Diggelmann is tied with Denmark's Josef Petersen, who won second prize three times in literature, for the amount of medals captured in the art competitions. Luxembourg's Jean Jacoby is the only individual to win two gold medals, doing so in painting in 1924 and 1928. Of the 146 medalists, 11 were women and only Finnish author Aale Tynni was awarded gold. Germany was the most successful nation, with eight gold, seven silver, and nine bronze medals, although one was won by Coubertin himself, a Frenchman. He submitted his poem \"Ode to Sport\" under the pseudonyms Georges Hohrod and Martin Eschbach, as if it were a joint-entry, and won first prize in the 1912 literature category. The original report credits this medal to Germany. Two individuals, Walter W. Winans and Alfréd Hajós, won medals in both athletic and art competitions.\n\n"}
{"id": "29437683", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29437683", "title": "List of artists who created paintings and drawings for use in films", "text": "List of artists who created paintings and drawings for use in films\n\nFor the biographical film drama \"Pollock\", Ed Harris trained himself to paint. More often, actors portraying artists are shown with work created by a professional painter, comics artist or sculptor.\n\n"}
{"id": "43635083", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43635083", "title": "List of bell ringing organisations", "text": "List of bell ringing organisations\n\nThe following is a list of bell ringing organisations\n\nBelow is a list of all currently known ringing societies around the world. This includes societies affiliated to the Central Council of Church Bell ringers – identified by the number of representative members.:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "23147760", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23147760", "title": "Literary cycle", "text": "Literary cycle\n\nA literary cycle is a group of stories focused on common figures, often (though not necessarily) based on mythical figures or loosely on historical ones. Cycles which deal with an entire country are sometimes referred to as matters. A fictional cycle is often referred to as a mythos.\n\n"}
{"id": "25380742", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25380742", "title": "Misorientation", "text": "Misorientation\n\nMisorientation is the difference in crystallographic orientation between two crystallites in a polycrystalline material.\n\nIn crystalline materials, the orientation of a crystallite is defined by a transformation from a sample reference frame (i.e. defined by the direction of a rolling or extrusion process and two orthogonal directions) to the local reference frame of the crystalline lattice, as defined by the basis of the unit cell. In the same way, misorientation is the transformation necessary to move from one local crystal frame to some other crystal frame. That is, it is the distance in orientation space between two distinct orientations. If the orientations are specified in terms of matrices of direction cosines g and g, then the misorientation operator ∆g going from A to B can be defined as follows:\n\nwhere the term g is the reverse operation of g, that is, transformation from crystal frame A back to the sample frame. This provides an alternate description of misorientation as the successive operation of transforming from the first crystal frame (A) back to the sample frame and subsequently to the new crystal frame (B).\n\nVarious methods can be used to represent this transformation operation, such as: Euler angles, Rodrigues vectors, axis/angle (where the axis is specified as a crystallographic direction), or unit quaternions.\n\nThe effect of crystal symmetry on misorientations is to reduce the fraction of the full orientation space necessary to uniquely represent all possible misorientation relationships. For example, cubic crystals (i.e. FCC) have 24 symmetrically related orientations. Each of these orientations is physically indistinguishable, though mathematically distinct. Therefore, the size of orientation space is reduced by a factor of 24. This defines the fundamental zone (FZ) for cubic symmetries. For the misorientation between two cubic crystallites, each possesses its 24 inherent symmetries. In addition, there exists a switching symmetry, defined by:\n\nwhich recognizes the invariance of misorientation to direction; A→B or B→A. The fraction of the total orientation space in the cubic-cubic fundamental zone for misorientation is then given by:\nor 1/48 the volume of the cubic fundamental zone. This also has the effect of limiting the maximum unique misorientation angle to 62.8°\n\nDisorientation describes the misorientation with the smallest possible rotation angle out of all symmetrically equivalent misorientations that fall within the FZ (usually specified as having an axis in the standard stereographic triangle for cubics). Calculation of these variants involves application of crystal symmetry operators to each of the orientations during the calculation of misorientation.\nformula_5\nwhere O denotes one of the symmetry operators for the material.\n\nThe misorientation distribution (MD) is analogous to the ODF used in characterizing texture. The MD describes the probability of the misorientation between any two grains falling into a range formula_6 around a given misorientation formula_7. While similar to a probability density, the MD is not mathematically the same due to the normalization. The intensity in a MD is given as \"multiples of random density\" (MRD) with respect to the distribution expected in a material with uniformly distributed misorientations. The MD can be calculated by either series expansion, typically using generalized spherical harmonics, or by a discrete binning scheme, where each data point is assigned to a bin and accumulated.\n\nDiscrete misorientations or the misorientation distribution can be fully described as plots in the Euler angle, axis/angle, or Rodrigues vector space. Unit quaternions, while computationally convenient, do not lend themselves to graphical representation because of their four-dimensional nature. For any of the representations, plots are usually constructed as sections through the fundamental zone; along φ in Euler angles, at increments of rotation angle for axis/angle, and at constant ρ (parallel to <001>) for Rodrigues. Due to the irregular shape of the cubic-cubic FZ, the plots are typically given as sections through the cubic FZ with the more restrictive boundaries overlaid.\n\nMackenzie plots are a one-dimensional representation of the MD plotting the relative frequency of the misorientation angle, irrespective of the axis. Mackenzie determined the misorientation distribution for a cubic sample with a random texture.\n\nThe following is an example of the algorithm for determining the axis/angle representation of misorientation between two texture components given as Euler angles:\nThe first step is converting the Euler angle representation to an orientation matrix \"g\" by:\nformula_8\n\nwhere c and s represent \"cosine\" and \"sine\", respectively. This yields the following orientation matrices:\nThe misorientation is then:\nThe axis/angle description (with the axis as a unit vector) is related to the misorientation matrix by:\n\nFor the copper—S misorientation given by Δg, the axis/angle description is 19.5° about [0.689,0.623,0.369], which is only 2.3° from <221>. This result is only one of the 1152 symmetrically related possibilities but does specify the disorientation. This can be verified by considering all possible combinations of orientation symmetry (including switching symmetry).\n\n"}
{"id": "614197", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=614197", "title": "Outline of classical architecture", "text": "Outline of classical architecture\n\nThe following outline is provided as an overview of and topical guide to classical architecture:\n\nClassical architecture – architecture of classical antiquity, that is, ancient Greek architecture and the architecture of ancient Rome. It also refers to the style or styles of architecture influenced by those. For example, most of the styles originating in post-renaissance Europe can be described as classical architecture. This broad use of the term is employed by Sir John Summerson in \"The Classical Language of Architecture\".\n\nClassical architecture can be described as all of the following:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6062774", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6062774", "title": "Patrick Shea (civil servant)", "text": "Patrick Shea (civil servant)\n\nPatrick Shea CB, OBE, FRSA (27 April 1908 – 1986) was a Northern Irish civil servant and the first Roman Catholic since A. N. Bonaparte-Wyse in the 1920s to achieve the rank of Permanent Secretary of a Government Department in Northern Ireland.\n\nShea was born in Delvin, County Westmeath, where his father, a native Irish speaker from West Kerry, was a member of the Royal Irish Constabulary. His father had various postings until the RIC was disbanded in 1922 upon the creation of the Irish Free State via the Anglo-Irish Treaty/Partition of Ireland. Shea's father joined the Royal Ulster Constabulary, attaining the rank of Head Constable and later Clerk of Petty Sessions in Newry, County Down, where the family later lived. \n\nPatrick Shea attended the Abbey CBS in Newry. Upon leaving, he joined the Northern Ireland Civil Service in June 1926. His postings included:\n\nAfter retirement he chaired Enterprise Ulster from 1973–1979. Shea commented on his own career by recalling that it \"was my experience that some Catholics, and especially those in Belfast, where I had been told, the Bishop advised them against seeking Government employment, looked with suspicion on Catholic civil servants. We had joined the enemy, we were lost souls\".\n\nShea was given an OBE in 1961 and CB 1972. He was made an Honorary member of the Royal Society of Ulster Architects in 1971 and a Fellow of the Royal Society of Arts in 1977. He was a long-time member of the Ulster Arts Club.\n\nHe married Eithne McHugh (d. 2000) in September 1941 and they had a daughter and two sons.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "8023588", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8023588", "title": "Pinax", "text": "Pinax\n\nIn the modern study of the culture of ancient Greece and Magna Graecia, a pinax (πίναξ) (plural pinakes - πίνακες), meaning \"board\", is a votive tablet of painted wood, or terracotta, marble or bronze relief that served as a votive object deposited in a sanctuary or as a memorial affixed within a burial chamber. \nSuch \"pinakes\" feature in the classical collections of most comprehensive museums.\n\nTo the ancient Greeks \"pinax\" seems also to have been a general term for a plate, but this is generally not followed in modern archaeological usage. In daily life \"pinax\" might equally denote a wax-covered writing tablet. In Christian contexts, painted icons (\"images\") are \"pinakes\". In the theatre of ancient Greece, they were images probably usually painted on cloth, but also carved either in stone or wood, that were hung behind, and sometimes below, the stage area as scenery, or as permanent decoration. The term pinacotheca for a picture gallery derives from such usages.\n\nWhen they are recovered by archaeologists, painted wooden \"pinakes\" have usually lost all but faint traces of their painted images - the Pitsa panels being the outstanding exception. Moulded terracotta \"pinakes\" were also brightly painted. Marble \"pinakes\" were individually carved, but terracotta ones were impressed in molds, and bronze ones might be repeatedly cast from a model from which wax and resin impressions were made, in the technique called lost wax casting. \n\nA few elaborate gold plaques have survived from the 7th century BC, many made in Rhodes, with deity figures, especially Artemis, shown in an orientalizing Daedalic style.\n\nThey often have two holes for a suspension cord, and are shown in vase-paintings both hanging on temple walls, and also suspended from trees in the sanctuary area. The Roman architect Vitruvius mentions the \"pinakes\" in the cellas of temples, and even in the possession of private persons. Such a collection was a \"pinakothek\", which is a modern German term for an art museum, such as the Alte Pinakothek of Munich.\n\nCallimachus, the Alexandrian poet and scholar at the Library of Alexandria, formed a kind of index, or \"map picture\" of the library's contents, which he named \"Pinakes\", a term that continued in use in bibliographic catalogs.\n\nAt Locri in southern Italy, thousands of carefully buried \"pinakes\" have been recovered, most of them from the sanctuary of Persephone or that of Aphrodite. Another large group of over 1,000 pottery pinakes was found at the site of Penteskouphia, just outside Corinth. These are mostly in the Antikensammlung Berlin, with some in Corinth and the Louvre. As well as the usual religious scenes, some of these show depictions of potters at work. Berlin also has a smaller group of fragments from the Kerameikos cemetery in Athens, many by the painter Exekias.\n\nIn Etruscan art, rather larger terracotta plaques than are typical in Greek art have been found in tombs, some forming a series that creates in effect a portable wall-painting. Wealthy Etruscan families often had tombs with painted walls, which the Greeks did not. The \"Boccanera\" tomb at the Banditaccia necropolis at Cerveteri contained five panels almost a metre high set round the wall, which are now in the British Museum. Three of them form a single scene, apparently the Judgement of Paris, while the other two flanked the inside of the entrance, with sphinxes acting as tomb guardians. They date to about 560 BC. Fragments of similar panels have been found in city centre sites, presumably from temples, elite houses and other buildings, where the subjects include scenes of everyday life.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "236696", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=236696", "title": "Postdigital", "text": "Postdigital\n\nPostdigital, in artistic practice, is an attitude that is more concerned with being human, than with being digital. Postdigital is concerned with our rapidly changed and changing relationships with digital technologies and art forms. If one examines the textual paradigm of consensus, one is faced with a choice: either the \"postdigital\" society has intrinsic meaning, or it is contextualised into a paradigm of consensus that includes art as a totality. \n\nGiorgio Agamben (2002) describes paradigms as things what we think with, rather than things we think about. Like the computer age, the postdigital is also a paradigm, but as with post-humanism for example, an understanding of postdigital does not aim to describe a life \"after\" digital, but rather attempts to describe the present-day opportunity to explore the consequences of the digital and of the computer age. While the computer age has enhanced human capacity with inviting and uncanny prosthetics, the postdigital may provide a paradigm with which it is possible to examine and understand this enhancement.\n\nIn \"The Future of Art in a Postdigital Age\" Mel Alexenberg defines \"postdigital art\" as artworks that address the humanization of digital technologies through interplay between digital, biological, cultural, and spiritual systems, between cyberspace and real space, between embodied media and mixed reality in social and physical communication, between high tech and high touch experiences, between visual, haptic, auditory, and kinesthetic media experiences, between virtual and augmented reality, between roots and globalization, between autoethnography and community narrative, and between web-enabled peer-produced wikiart and artworks created with alternative media through participation, interaction, and collaboration in which the role of the artist is redefined.\n\nIn addition to the wide scope of artistic discourse, the notion of postdigital is emerging as a term that describes the exploration of our relationship to the computer age as a dominant paradigm in a time of global mixing, intertwined economies, population certainty and planetary limits, for example in the work of Berry (2014).\n\nRoy Ascott has demonstrated that the distinction between the digital and the \"postdigital\" is part of the economy of reality.\n\nKim Cascone uses the term in his article \"The Aesthetics of Failure: \"Post-digital\" Tendencies in Contemporary Computer Music.\" He begins the article with a quotation from MIT Media Lab cyberpundit Nicholas Negroponte: \"The digital revolution is over.\" Cascone goes on to describe what he sees as a 'post-digital' line of flight in the music also commonly known as glitch or microsound music, observing that 'with electronic commerce now a natural part of the business fabric of the Western world and Hollywood cranking out digital fluff by the gigabyte, the medium of digital technology holds less fascination for composers in and of itself.'\n\nIn \"Art after Technology\" Maurice Benayoun lists possible tracks for \"postdigital\" art considering that the digital flooding has altered the entire social, economical, artistic landscape and the artist posture will move in ways that try to escape the technological realm without being able to completely discard it. From lowtech to biotech and \"critical fusion\" - critical intrusion of fiction inside reality – new forms of art emerge from the digital era.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2698850", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2698850", "title": "San Francisco Ballet", "text": "San Francisco Ballet\n\nSan Francisco Ballet is a ballet company, founded in 1933 as the San Francisco Opera Ballet under the leadership of ballet master Adolph Bolm. The company is currently based in the War Memorial Opera House, San Francisco, under the direction of Helgi Tomasson. San Francisco Ballet was the first professional ballet company in the United States. It is among the world's leading dance companies, presenting more than 100 performances annually, with a repertoire that spans both classical and contemporary ballet. Along with American Ballet Theatre and the New York City Ballet, San Francisco Ballet has been described as part of the \"triumvirate of great classical companies defining the American style on the world stage today\".\n\nWillam Christensen, Harold Christensen, and Lew Christensen made up the famed trio of brothers considered by many to have done more than anyone else to establish ballet in the United States. Born into an artistic and musical family, the three brothers studied folk dance and ballet from early ages and went on to tour the famous vaudeville Orpheum Circuit during the 1920s and 1930s, exposing many Americans to ballet for the first time with their act \"The Christ Brothers\".\n\nAs vaudeville faded from American popular culture, Harold and Lew joined George Balanchine's new company, American Ballet, in 1935. In 1932, Willam formed a ballet school in Portland, Oregon; in 1937, he was engaged as principal male soloist by San Francisco Opera Ballet. He became the company's ballet master and choreographer in 1938. With his brother Harold, he purchased the company from the Opera in 1942, renaming it San Francisco Ballet. In 1951, Willam retired as director of SF Ballet and moved to Utah, where he started teaching ballet in the country’s first university ballet department at the University of Utah. With a group of his students, he founded the Utah Civic Ballet (now known as Ballet West) in 1963; the company remained under Christensen's directorship until 1978.\n\nUnder Balanchine's tutelage at American Ballet, Lew Christensen became the first American-born \"danseur noble\". The United States Army drafted Christensen to fight in World War II. After the war ended, he joined Balanchine's and Lincoln Kirstein's Ballet Society (soon to become New York City Ballet), eventually becoming ballet master; he served in the role from 1946 until 1950. In 1951, he joined his brother Willam as co-director of San Francisco Ballet. When Willam moved to Salt Lake City later that year, Lew took over as full director of SF Ballet; he held the position until 1976, when Michael Smuin joined him as co-director. Lew Christensen remained SF Ballet co-director until 1984, the year of his death.\n\nAfter leaving the vaudeville circuit in 1935, Harold Christensen danced with American Ballet, San Francisco Opera Ballet, Kirstein's Ballet Caravan, and San Francisco Ballet until his retirement from the stage in 1946. In 1940, his brother Willam invited him to become director of the San Francisco Ballet School, and in 1942 he and Willam purchased the SF Ballet. Harold continued to serve as the school's director until his retirement in 1975.\n\nIn 1938, the company's first major production was \"Coppélia\", choreographed by Willam Christensen. In 1940, it staged \"Swan Lake\", the first time that the ballet was produced in its entirety by an American company. On Christmas Eve 1944, the company staged \"Nutcracker\"—the first complete production of Tchaikovsky's most popular piece ever danced in the United States.\n\nIn 1942, San Francisco Opera Ballet split into two independent companies, ballet and opera. The ballet half was sold to Willam and Harold Christensen. Willam became artistic director, while Harold took on the job of director of the San Francisco Ballet School. The San Francisco Ballet Guild was also formed as a support organization for San Francisco Ballet.\n\nThe year 1951 marked a significant shift in administration of San Francisco Ballet. Lew Christensen—\"premier danseur\" at the time—partnered with his brother Willam Christensen as co-directors. Then in 1952, Lew Christensen took over as sole director. Under his guidance, San Francisco Ballet began to travel and establish itself as a significant American ballet company. Until 1956, San Francisco Ballet had remained on the West Coast, but Christensen took the company to the Jacob's Pillow Dance Festival in Massachusetts. In 1957, it was the first American ballet company to tour the Far East, performing in 11 Asian nations. On New Year's Day 1965, ABC-TV televised a one-hour abridgement of the Lew Christensen-choreographed production of \"Nutcracker\" featuring San Francisco Ballet.\n\nIn 1972, San Francisco's War Memorial Opera House was named the official residence of San Francisco Ballet.\n\nIn 1973, Michael Smuin became co-artistic director of San Francisco Ballet with Lew Christensen; Smuin had danced with the Company from 1953 to 1961. Under his direction, the national and international profile of SF Ballet was raised significantly by the broad success of productions such as 1977's \"Romeo and Juliet\", which aired on the PBS series \"Great Performances: Dance in America\" in 1978. This televised performance marked the first time that a West Coast ballet company, and a full-length ballet, was shown on the PBS TV series. PBS televised three more of Smuin's SF Ballet productions, and his productions of \"The Tempest\" and \"A Song for Dead Warriors\" went on to win Emmy Awards. Smuin led the company until 1985.\n\nHelgi Tomasson's 1985 arrival as artistic director marked the beginning of a new era for San Francisco Ballet. Under Tomasson's direction, San Francisco Ballet has been recognized as one of the most innovative ballet companies in the world due to its early and frequent commissioning of new works by aspiring choreographers around the globe, the breadth of its repertory—spanning classical ballet, neoclassical ballet, and contemporary ballet—and the diversity of its company members. The \"Financial Times\" noted in 2012, \"Tomasson ... helped shatter the distinction between the US top companies and so-called 'regional companies.\n\nOver a span of more than 25 years, Tomasson has staged acclaimed full-length productions of classics including \"Swan Lake\" (1988, 2009); \"The Sleeping Beauty\" (1990); \"Romeo and Juliet\" (1994); \"Giselle\" (1999); \"Don Quixote\", co-staged with former principal dancer and current choreographer in residence Yuri Possokhov (2003); and \"Nutcracker\" (2004). Tomasson's \"Nutcracker\", set in San Francisco during the 1915 Panama Pacific International Exposition, is notable for being the only uniquely San Francisco \"Nutcracker\". It features sets (including \"a backdrop of San Francisco's Victorian houses known as 'painted ladies) and costumes created by, respectively, Michael Yeargan and Martin Pakledinaz, both repeat Tony Award-winning designers. Upon its premiere, \"The New York Times\" called Tomasson's \"Nutcracker\" \"striking, elegant and beautiful\".\n\nToday, San Francisco Ballet presents approximately 100 performances each year. The company's diverse repertory includes works by Sir Frederick Ashton, George Balanchine, David Bintley, August Bournonville, Val Caniparoli, Lew Christensen, Nacho Duato, Jorma Elo, William Forsythe, James Kudelka, Jirí Kylián, Serge Lifar, Lar Lubovitch, Wayne McGregor, Agnes de Mille, Sir Kenneth MacMillan, Hans van Manen, Peter Martins, Mark Morris, Rudolf Nureyev, Marius Petipa, Roland Petit, Yuri Possokhov, Alexei Ratmansky, Jerome Robbins, Liam Scarlett, Paul Taylor, Helgi Tomasson, Antony Tudor, and Christopher Wheeldon.\n\nIn 2010, the Ballet's opening-night gala, \"Silver Celebration\", honored Tomasson's 25 years as artistic director.\n\nThe Gala Opening of San Francisco Ballet's 80th Season included \"Tarantella\" pas de deux, \"L'Arlesienne\" solo, \"Flower Festival at Genzano\" pas de deux, \"In the Passerine's Clutch\", \"Raymonda\"’s Act II solo, \"Trio\" second movement, \"Don Quixote\" grand pas de deux, \"Onegin\" Act 1 pas de deux, \"Stars and Stripes\" pas de deux, \"After the Rain\" pas de deux, and excerpts from \"Suite en Blanc\".\n\nSan Francisco Ballet's 2013 season included \"Trio\", \"Ghost\" and \"Borderlands\" as well as \"Suite en blanc\", \"In the night\", \"Nijinsky\", \"The Rite of Spring\", \"Onegin\", \"Raymonda Act III\" and \"Cinderella\".\n\nThe 2014 season included \"Giselle\", \"A Midsummer Night's Dream\", \"Tears\", \"Borderlands\", \"From Foreign Lands\", \"Firebird\", \"Ghosts\", \"The Kingdom of the Shades from La Bayadère\", \"Cinderella\", \"Shostakovich Trilogy\", \"Caprice\", \"Maelstrom\", \"The Rite of Spring\", \"Hummingbird\", \"The Fifth Season\", \"Suite en Blanc\", \"Agon\", \"Brahms-Schoenberg Quartet\", and \"Glass Pieces\".\n\nThe 2015 season included \"Serenade, RAkU, Lambarena, Giselle, The Vertiginous Thrill of Exactitude, Variations for Two Couples, Manifesto, The Kingdom of the Shades from La Bayadère, Act II, Dances at a Gathering, Hummingbird, Don Quixote, Shostakovich Trilogy, Caprice, Swimmer,\" and \"Romeo & Juliet\".\n\nThe 2017 season included \"Haffner Symphony,\" \"Fragile Vessels,\" \"In the Countenance of Kings,\" \"Seven Sonatas,\" \"Optimistic Tragedy,\" \"Pas/Parts 2016,\" \"Frankenstein,\" \"Stravinsky Violin Concerto,\" \"Prodigal Son,\" \"Diamonds,\" \"Fusion,\" \"Salome,\" \"Fearful Symmetries,\" \"Swan Lake,\" \"Trio,\" \"Ghost in the Machine,\" \"Within the Golden Hour,\" and \"Cinderella.\"\n\nSan Francisco Ballet performs repertory from January through May at the War Memorial Opera House in San Francisco. In addition, the company performs in July at the Stern Grove Festival in San Francisco, tours nationally in the summer and fall, and presents \"Nutcracker\" in December at the War Memorial Opera House.\n\nIn 1991, San Francisco Ballet performed in New York City for the first time in 26 years, returning in 1993, 1995, 1998, 2002, 2006, 2008, and 2013. Following the initial tour, \"The New York Times\" proclaimed, \"Mr. Tomasson has accomplished the unprecedented: He has pulled a so-called regional company into the national ranks, and he has done so by honing the dancers into a classical style of astonishing verve and purity. San Francisco Ballet under Helgi Tomasson's leadership is one of the spectacular success stories of the arts in America.\"\n\nIn May 1995, San Francisco Ballet hosted 12 ballet companies from around the world for UNited We Dance: An International Festival. The festival commemorated the 50th anniversary of the signing of the United Nations Charter, which took place at the San Francisco War Memorial and Performing Arts Center.\n\nIn fall 2008, as part of the company's 75th anniversary celebration, San Francisco Ballet embarked on a critically acclaimed four-city American tour with engagements at Chicago's Harris Theater for Music and Dance, New York City Center, Southern California's Segerstrom Center for the Arts, and the John F. Kennedy Center for the Performing Arts in Washington, D.C. The year culminated in a New Works Festival of world premieres by 10 of the dance world's most acclaimed choreographers—Julia Adam, Val Caniparoli, Jorma Elo, Margaret Jenkins, James Kudelka, Mark Morris, Yuri Possokhov, Paul Taylor, Stanton Welch, and Christopher Wheeldon. Other anniversary initiatives included a commemorative book, \"San Francisco Ballet at Seventy-Five\", and the broadcast of Tomasson's \"Nutcracker\" in December 2008 on the \"Great Performances: Dance in America\" series on PBS, produced in partnership with KQED Public Television in San Francisco.\n\nSan Francisco Ballet also performed in frequent overseas tours, including engagements at prestigious venues such as the famed Opéra de Paris-Palais Garnier in Paris (1994, 2001); London's Sadler's Wells Theatre (1999, 2004, 2012) and Royal Opera House in Covent Garden (2002); Athens' Megaron Theatre (2002) and Herod Atticus Amphitheatre (2004); Copenhagen's Tivoli Gardens (1998, 2010); and the Edinburgh International Festival at the Edinburgh Playhouse (1997, 2003). In fall 2009, San Francisco Ballet made its first trip to the People's Republic of China, with performances in Shanghai and Beijing.\n\nIn 2012, San Francisco Ballet embarked on the longest tour in the company's history, with engagements in London and Washington, DC, as well as first-time visits to Hamburg, Germany; Moscow; and Sun Valley, Idaho.\n\nIn 1978, San Francisco Ballet's Michael Smuin-directed production of \"Romeo and Juliet\" became the first production by a West Coast ballet company, and the first full-length ballet, to be aired by the PBS \"Great Performances: Dance in America\" television series. Under the direction of Smuin, the ballet's 1981 production of \"The Tempest\" became the first ballet to be broadcast live (on PBS) from the War Memorial Opera House. Three years later, the 1984 PBS broadcast of the Ballet's performance of \"A Song for Dead Warriors\" earned Smuin an Emmy.\n\nThe fruitful relationship between PBS and SF Ballet continues to this day, with regular broadcasts of the Ballet's 2007 production of \"Nutcracker\", choreographed by Helgi Tomasson. I Also in 2007, the Company had its first theatrical release with \"Nutcracker\", shown in limited theaters in Canada, Australia, and the U.S. In 2011, theatrical distributor IndieNetFilms arranged for additional screenings throughout the U.S. and Canada.\n\nIn December 2011, the U.S. premiere of John Neumeier's \"The Little Mermaid\", performed by San Francisco Ballet, was broadcast nationally on PBS's \"Great Performances: Dance in America\", and also internationally. DVDs of the \"Nutcracker\" and \"The Little Mermaid\" performances were released in 2008 and 2011, respectively. CD recordings of the complete score of \"Nutcracker\" and Shinji Eshima's \"RAkU\" were released in 2010 and 2012, respectively.\n\nThe company has garnered numerous accolades and awards. In 2005, San Francisco Ballet won its first Laurence Olivier Award, in the category of Outstanding Achievement in Dance, for its 2004 fall season at Sadler's Wells Theatre. Of the engagement, London's \"The Sunday Times\" proclaimed, \"Helgi Tomasson's outstanding artistic direction ... has transformed a regional American troupe into one of the world's top ballet companies.\" In 2006, in a readers' poll conducted by \"Dance Europe\" magazine, San Francisco Ballet was the first non-European company to be voted \"Company of the Year\". In 2008, San Francisco Ballet received the Jerome Robbins Award for excellence in dance.\n\nIn 2012, Helgi Tomasson was named recipient of the Dance/USA Honor, acknowledging individuals' contributions to dance in America and the role they play in the national dance community. Most recently, San Francisco Ballet was nominated in the category of Outstanding Company by the 2014 National Dance Awards, based in the U.K.\n\nThe company of the San Francisco Ballet, as of September 2017.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nSan Francisco Ballet School, San Francisco Ballet's official school, is America's oldest ballet school. The program includes classes in technique, pointe work, pas de deux, men's technique, contemporary dance, floor barre/conditioning, and character dance. Male and female students are placed in divisions according to age, experience, and ability. More than 50 percent of current San Francisco Ballet dancers received some training at San Francisco Ballet School.\n\nThe school was founded in 1933 as part of the San Francisco Operatic and Ballet School when Gaetano Merola, the founder of the San Francisco Opera, perceived a need for an institution where dancers could be trained to perform in opera productions. The school was under the direction of ballet director Adolph Bolm from 1933 to 1938. Willam Christensen became director from 1938 to 1940, followed by his brother Harold Christensen from 1942 until 1975. Richard L. Cammack directed the school from 1975 to 1985; he oversaw the move to its current state-of-the-art facilities on Franklin Street in 1983. In 1985, new SF Ballet artistic director Helgi Tomasson appointed Nancy Johnson as school head. Lola de Avila joined as associate director from 1993 to 1999, followed by Gloria Govrin beginning in 1999. In 2006, de Avila returned to serve as associate director until 2012, when Patrick Armand stepped into the role.\n\nAdmission into the school is by audition only. Students may apply for financial aid and merit-based scholarships. Advanced students may be invited to join the SFBS Trainee Program, a one- to two-year pre-professional program established in 2004.\n\nUp to 150 students are chosen by audition to dance in the yearly SF Ballet production of \"Nutcracker\". The most advanced students may also dance with SF Ballet in the repertory season.\n\nThe school also runs a pre-ballet program for children ages 4–7; after completing the program, students of age who wish to continue study must audition in order to continue at the school.\n\nThe faculty of the San Francisco Ballet School has long been known for its excellence and diversity of background. As of January 2017, it is led by the Artistic Director Helgi Tómasson and Associate Director Patrick Armand. The illustrious faculty includes Patrick Armand, Kristi DeCaminada, Karen Gabay, Yuko Katsumi, Tina LeBlanc, Jeffrey Lyons, Rubén Martín Cintas, Ilona McHugh, Pascal Molat, Wendy Van Dyck (Trainee Program Assistant), Jaime Diaz (Strengthening), Brian Fisher (Contemporary), Dana Genshaft (Contemporary dance and conditioning), Henry Berg (Conditioning), Leonid Shagalov (Character), Jamie Narushchen (Music), and Daniel Sullivan (Music). The guest faculty for 2017 includes Sofiane Sylve (Principal Guest).\n\nFounded in 1975 to serve as San Francisco Ballet's official permanent orchestra, San Francisco Ballet Orchestra (SFBO) holds the rare position of being one of three major orchestras in a single city. The orchestra debuted at the end of 1975 with \"Nutcracker\" and has met with both audience and critical acclaim ever since, becoming known by the 1990s as one of the world's finest ballet orchestras.\n\nSFBO toured with the SF Ballet's touring company from 1978 until 1984. It has accompanied many prestigious international ballet companies that have toured to the San Francisco Bay Area, including The Royal Ballet, the Royal Danish Ballet, Stuttgart Ballet, Hamburg Ballet,the Bolshoi Ballet, Paul Taylor Dance Company, American Ballet Theatre, and the Paris Opéra Ballet. In 1995, the orchestra took on the remarkable task of accompanying 13 international dance companies over the space of a single week in the UNited We Dance Festival.\n\nThe 49-member orchestra accompanies SF Ballet throughout its winter and spring repertory seasons. It also performs apart from the Company; it debuted solely as an orchestra in 1979 at the Herbst Theatre in San Francisco's War Memorial Veterans Building, playing a program that included works by Haydn, Ives, and Vivaldi.\n\nThe SFBO is composed of 49 members and headed by Martin West, music director and conductor. As of October 2013, the musicians and staff included:\n\nThe orchestra was led by Denis de Coteau from 1975 until 1998, when de Coteau's battle with terminal cancer forced him to step down from the position. Emil de Cou, who had been serving as conductor since 1995, then assumed the role of music director, leading the Orchestra until 2001, when he left to join Washington D.C.'s National Symphony Orchestra. He was replaced by first associate conductor Jean-Louis LeRoux, who then left the interim position in 2003 and was succeeded by Andrew Mogrelia. In 2005, Mogrelia left in order to focus on his duties as music director at San Francisco Conservatory of Music. That same year, Martin West, frequent guest conductor for the Orchestra, stepped into the position of music director.\n\nThe orchestra's repertoire includes hundreds of works spanning four centuries of musical history, many of which have been recorded and released to great critical acclaim, including works by Beethoven, Bizet, and Delibes. Four of the orchestra's recordings have been televised on PBS's \"Great Performances: Dance in America\".\n\nRecordings include:\n\nSan Francisco Ballet has a large network of volunteers who assist with the ongoing success of the Company and the San Francisco Ballet School.\n\nMore than 200 Ballet Resource and Volunteer Organization (BRAVO) volunteers donate over 10,000 volunteer hours every year, assisting with office duties, retail work, and the ballet's Center for Dance Education, as well as helping SF Ballet staff with receptions, fundraisers, the Spring Student Showcase, and other special events.\n\nThe San Francisco Ballet Auxiliary is a group of 100 dedicated women who volunteer to raise over $1 million in net contributions annually. In addition to individual fundraising, the group produces three annual productions: the Opening Night Gala, Fashion Show, and Student Showcase, with proceeds benefiting the Ballet and the San Francisco Ballet School.\n\nSan Francisco Ballet's Allegro Circle is a group of professional men and women who share a passion for dance and contribute their own personal, professional, and philanthropic resources toward developing a new and diverse generation of subscribers and patrons.\n\nSan Francisco Ballet's ENCORE! group offers local young professionals access to a range of social and educational events with a behind-the-scenes perspective. Staffing these events presents its 200+ members with a wide range of volunteer opportunities.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "57521", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57521", "title": "Situationist International", "text": "Situationist International\n\nThe Situationist International (SI) was an international organization of social revolutionaries made up of avant-garde artists, intellectuals, and political theorists, prominent in Europe from its formation in 1957 to its dissolution in 1972.\n\nThe intellectual foundations of the Situationist International were derived primarily from anti-authoritarian Marxism and the avant-garde art movements of the early 20th century, particularly Dada and Surrealism. Overall, situationist theory represented an attempt to synthesize this diverse field of theoretical disciplines into a modern and comprehensive critique of mid-20th century advanced capitalism. The situationists recognized that capitalism had changed since Marx's formative writings, but maintained that his analysis of the capitalist mode of production remained fundamentally correct; they rearticulated and expanded upon several classical Marxist concepts, such as his theory of alienation. In their expanded interpretation of Marxist theory, the situationists asserted that the misery of social alienation and commodity fetishism were no longer limited to the fundamental components of capitalist society, but had now in advanced capitalism spread themselves to every aspect of life and culture. They rejected the idea that advanced capitalism's apparent successes—such as technological advancement, increased income, and increased leisure—could ever outweigh the social dysfunction and degradation of everyday life that it simultaneously inflicted.\n\nEssential to situationist theory was the concept of the spectacle, a unified critique of advanced capitalism of which a primary concern was the progressively increasing tendency towards the expression and mediation of social relations through objects. The situationists believed that the shift from individual expression through directly lived experiences, or the first-hand fulfillment of authentic desires, to individual expression by proxy through the exchange or consumption of commodities, or passive second-hand alienation, inflicted significant and far-reaching damage to the quality of human life for both individuals and society. Another important concept of situationist theory was the primary means of counteracting the spectacle; the construction of situations, moments of life deliberately constructed for the purpose of reawakening and pursuing authentic desires, experiencing the feeling of life and adventure, and the liberation of everyday life.\n\nWhen the Situationist International was first formed, it had a predominantly artistic focus; emphasis was placed on concepts like unitary urbanism and psychogeography. Gradually, however, that focus shifted more towards revolutionary and political theory. The Situationist International reached the apex of its creative output and influence in 1967 and 1968, with the former marking the publication of the two most significant texts of the situationist movement, \"The Society of the Spectacle\" by Guy Debord and \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" by Raoul Vaneigem. The expressed writing and political theory of the two aforementioned texts, along with other situationist publications, proved greatly influential in shaping the ideas behind the May 1968 insurrections in France; quotes, phrases, and slogans from situationist texts and publications were ubiquitous on posters and graffiti throughout France during the uprisings.\n\nThe term \"situationist\" refers to the construction of situations, one of the early central concepts of the Situationist International; the term also refers to any individuals engaged in the construction of situations, or, more narrowly, to members of the Situationist International. Situationist theory sees the situation as a tool for the liberation of everyday life, a method of negating the pervasive alienation that accompanied the spectacle. The founding manifesto of the Situationist International, \"Report on the Construction of Situations\" (1957), defined the construction of situations as \"the concrete construction of momentary ambiances of life and their transformation into a superior passional quality.\" \"Internationale Situationniste\" #1 (June 1958) defined the constructed situation as \"a moment of life concretely and deliberately constructed by the collective organization of a unitary ambiance and a game of events\". The situationists argued that advanced capitalism manufactured false desires; literally in the sense of ubiquitous advertising and the glorification of accumulated capital, and more broadly in the abstraction and reification of the more ephemeral experiences of authentic life into commodities. The experimental direction of situationist activity consisted of setting up temporary environments favorable to the fulfillment of true and authentic human desires in response.\n\nThe Situationist International strongly resisted use of the term \"situationism\", which Debord called a \"meaningless term\", adding \"[t]here is no such thing as situationism, which would mean a doctrine for interpreting existing conditions\". The situationists maintained a philosophical opposition to all ideologies, conceiving of them as abstract superstructures ultimately serving only to justify the economic base of a given society; accordingly, they rejected \"situationism\" as an absurd and self-contradictory concept. In \"The Society of the Spectacle\", Debord asserted ideology was \"the abstract will to universality and the illusion thereof\" which was \"legitimated in modern society by universal abstraction and by the effective dictatorship of illusion\".\n\nThe situationist movement had its origins as a left wing tendency within Lettrism, an artistic and literary movement led by the Romanian-born French poet and visual artist Isidore Isou, originating in 1940s Paris. The group was heavily influenced by the preceding avant-garde movements of Dadaism and Surrealism, seeking to apply critical theories based on these concepts to all areas of art and culture, most notably in poetry, film, painting and political theory. Among some of the concepts and artistic innovations developed by the Lettrists were the \"lettrie\", a poem reflecting pure form yet devoid of all semantic content, new syntheses of writing and visual art identified as metagraphics and hypergraphics, as well as new creative techniques in filmmaking. Future situationist Guy Debord, who was at that time a significant figure in the Lettrist movement, helped develop these new film techniques, using them in his Lettrist film \"Howls for Sade\" (1952) as well as later in his situationist film \"Society of the Spectacle\" (1972).\n\nBy 1950, a much younger and more left-wing part of the Lettrist movement began to emerge. This group kept very active in perpetrating public outrages such as the Notre-Dame Affair, where at the Easter High Mass at Notre Dame de Paris, in front of ten thousand people and broadcast on national TV, their member and former Dominican Michel Mourre posed as a monk, \"stood in front of the altar and read a pamphlet proclaiming that God was dead\". André Breton prominently came out in solidarity with the action in a letter that spawned a large debate in the newspaper \"Combat\".\n\nIn 1952, this left wing of the Lettrist movement, which included Debord, broke off from Isou's group and formed the Letterist International, a new Paris-based collective of avant-garde artists and political theorists. The schism finally erupted when the future members of the radical Lettrists disrupted a Charlie Chaplin press conference for \"Limelight\" at the Hôtel Ritz Paris. They distributed a polemic entitled \"No More Flat Feet!\", which concluded: \"The footlights have melted the make-up of the supposedly brilliant mime. All we can see now is a lugubrious and mercenary old man. Go home Mister Chaplin.\" Isou was upset with this, his own attitude being that Chaplin deserved respect as one of the great creators of the cinematic art. The breakaway group felt that his work was no longer relevant, while having appreciated it \"in its own time,\" and asserted their belief \"that the most urgent expression of freedom is the destruction of idols, especially when they claim to represent freedom,\" in this case, filmmaker Charlie Chaplin.\n\nDuring this period of the Letterist International, many of the important concepts and ideas that would later be integral in situationist theory were developed. Individuals in the group collaboratively constructed the new field of psychogeography, which they defined as \"the study of the specific effects of the geographical environment (whether consciously organized or not) on the emotions and behavior of individuals.\" Debord further expanded this concept of psychogeography with his theory of the dérive, an unplanned tour through an urban landscape directed entirely by the feelings evoked in the individual by their surroundings, serving as the primary means for mapping and investigating the psychogeography of these different areas. During this period the Letterist International also developed the situationist tactic of détournement, which by reworking or re-contextualizing an existing work of art or literature sought to radically shift its meaning to one with revolutionary significance.\n\nIn 1956, Guy Debord, a member of the Lettrist International, and Asger Jorn of the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus, brought together a group of artistic collectives for the \"First World Congress of Free Artists\" in Alba, Italy. The meeting established the foundation for the development of the Situationist International, which was officially formed in July 1957 at a meeting in Cosio. The resulting International was a fusion of these extremely small avant-garde collectives: the Lettrist International, the International Movement for an Imaginist Bauhaus (an offshoot of COBRA), and the London Psychogeographical Association (though, Anselm Jappe has argued that the group pivoted around Jorn and Debord for the first four years). Later, the Situationist International drew ideas from other groups such as \"Socialisme ou Barbarie\".\n\nThe most prominent member of the group, Guy Debord, generally became considered the organization's de facto leader and most distinguished theorist. Other members included theorist Raoul Vaneigem, the Dutch painter Constant Nieuwenhuys, the Italo-Scottish writer Alexander Trocchi, the English artist Ralph Rumney (sole member of the London Psychogeographical Association, Rumney suffered expulsion relatively soon after the formation), the Danish artist Asger Jorn (who after parting with the SI also founded the Scandinavian Institute of Comparative Vandalism), the architect and veteran of the Hungarian Uprising Attila Kotanyi, and the French writer Michele Bernstein. Debord and Bernstein later married.\n\nIn June 1957, Debord wrote the manifesto of the Situationist International, titled \"Report on the Construction of Situations\". This manifesto plans a systematic rereading of Karl Marx's \"Das Kapital\" and advocates a cultural revolution in western countries.\n\nDuring the first few years of the SI's founding, avant-garde artistic groups began collaborating with the SI and joining the organization. Gruppe SPUR, a German artistic collective, collaborated with the Situationist International on projects beginning in 1959, continuing until the group officially joined the SI in 1961. The role of the artists in the SI was of great significance, particularly Asger Jorn, Constant Nieuwenhuys and Pinot Gallizio.\n\nAsger Jorn, who invented Situgraphy and Situlogy, had the social role of catalyst and team leader among the members of the SI between 1957 and 1961. Jorn's role in the situationist movement (as in COBRA) was that of a catalyst and team leader. Guy Debord on his own lacked the personal warmth and persuasiveness to draw people of different nationalities and talents into an active working partnership. As a prototype Marxist intellectual Debord needed an ally who could patch up the petty egoisms and squabbles of the members. When Jorn's leadership was withdrawn in 1961, many simmering quarrels among different sections of the SI flared up, leading to multiple exclusions.\n\nThe first major split was the exclusion of Gruppe SPUR, the German section, from the SI on February 10, 1962. Many different disagreements led to the fracture, for example; while at the Fourth SI Conference in London in December, 1960, in a discussion about the political nature of the SI, the Gruppe SPUR members disagreed with the core situationist stance of counting on a revolutionary proletariat; the accusation that their activities were based on a \"systematic misunderstanding of situationist theses\"; the understanding that at least one Gruppe SPUR member, sculptor Lothar Fischer, and possibly the rest of the group, were not actually understanding and/or agreeing with the situationist ideas, but were just using the SI to achieve success in the art market. the betrayal, in the \"Spur #7\" issue, of a common agreement on the Gruppe SPUR and SI publications.\n\nThe exclusion was a recognition that Gruppe SPUR's \"principles, methods and goals\" were significantly in contrast with those of the SI. This split however was not a declaration of hostilities, as in other cases of SI exclusions. A few months after the exclusion, in the context of judicial prosecution against the group by the German state, Debord expressed his esteem to Gruppe SPUR, calling it the only significant artist group in Germany since World War II, and regarding it at the level of the avant-gardes in other countries.\n\nThe next significant split was in 1962, wherein the \"Nashists,\" the Scandinavian section of the SI led by Jørgen Nash, were excluded from the organization for lacking the theoretical rigor demanded by the Franco-Belgian section of SI led by Guy Debord. This excluded group would later declare themselves the 2nd Situationist International, basing their organization out of Sweden. Journalist Stewart Home, who favored the \"Nashists\" and considered Debord a \"mystic, an idealist, a dogmatist and a liar\" wrote that while the 2nd Situationist International sought to challenge the separation of art and politics from everyday life, Debord and the so-called 'specto-situationists' sought to concentrate solely on theoretical political aims.\n\nBy this point the Situationist International consisted almost exclusively of the Franco-Belgian section, led by Guy Debord and Raoul Vaneigem. These members possessed much more of a tendency towards political theory over the more artistic aspects of the SI. The shift in the intellectual priorities within the SI resulted in more focus on the theoretical, such as the theory of the spectacle and Marxist critical analysis, spending much less time on the more artistic and tangible concepts like unitary urbanism, détournement, and situgraphy.\n\nDuring this period the SI began having more and more influence on local university students in France. Taking advantage of the apathy of their colleagues, five \"Pro-situs\", situationist-influenced students, infiltrated the University of Strasbourg's student union in November 1966 and began scandalising the authorities. Their first action was to form an \"anarchist appreciation society\" called The Society for the Rehabilitation for Karl Marx and Ravachol; next they appropriated union funds to flypost \"Return of the Durruti Column\", Andre Bertrand's \"détourned\" comic strip. They then invited the situationists to contribute a critique of the University of Strasbourg, and \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", written by Tunisian situationist Mustapha/Omar Khayati was the result. The students promptly proceeded to print 10,000 copies of the pamphlet using university funds and distributed them during a ceremony marking the beginning of the academic year. This provoked an immediate outcry in the local, national and international media.\n\nThe Situationists played a preponderant role in the May 1968 uprisings, and to some extent their political perspective and ideas fueled such crisis, providing a central theoretic foundation. While SI's member count had been steadily falling for the preceding several years, the ones that remained were able to fill revolutionary roles for which they had patiently anticipated and prepared. The active ideologists (\"enragés\" and Situationists) behind the revolutionary events in Strasbourg, Nanterre and Paris, numbered only about one or two dozen persons.\n\nThis has now been widely acknowledged as a fact by studies of the period, what is still wide open to interpretation is the \"how and why\" that happened. Charles de Gaulle, in the aftermath televised speech of June 7, acknowledged that \"This explosion was provoked by groups in revolt against modern consumer and technical society, whether it be the communism of the East or the capitalism of the West.\"\n\nThey also made up the majority in the Occupation Committee of the Sorbonne. An important event leading up to May 1968 was the scandal in Strasbourg in December 1966. The Union Nationale des Étudiants de France declared itself in favor of the SI's theses, and managed to use public funds to publish Mustapha Khayati's pamphlet \"On the Poverty of Student Life\". Thousands of copies of the pamphlet were printed and circulated and helped to make the Situationists well known throughout the nonstalinist left.\n\nQuotations from two key situationist books, Debord's \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967) and Khayati's \"On the Poverty of Student Life\" (1966), were written on the walls of Paris and several provincial cities. This was documented in the collection of photographs published in 1968 by Walter Lewino, \"L'imagination au pouvoir\".\n\nThose who followed the \"artistic\" view of the SI might view the evolution of the SI as producing a more boring or dogmatic organization. Those following the political view would see the May 1968 uprisings as a logical outcome of the SI's dialectical approach: while savaging present day society, they sought a revolutionary society which would embody the positive tendencies of capitalist development. The \"realization and suppression of art\" is simply the most developed of the many dialectical supersessions which the SI sought over the years. For the Situationist International of 1968, the world triumph of workers councils would bring about all these supersessions.\n\nThough the SI were a very small group, they were expert self-propagandists, and their slogans appeared daubed on walls throughout Paris at the time of the revolt. SI member René Viénet's 1968 book \"Enragés and Situationists in the Occupations Movement, France, May '68\" gives an account of the involvement of the SI with the student group of Enragés and the occupation of the Sorbonne.\n\nThe occupations of 1968 started at the University of Nanterre and spread to the Sorbonne. The police tried to take back the Sorbonne and a riot ensued. Following this a general strike was declared with up to 10 million workers participating. The SI originally participated in the Sorbonne occupations and defended barricades in the riots. The SI distributed calls for the occupation of factories and the formation of workers' councils, but, disillusioned with the students, left the university to set up The Council For The Maintenance Of The Occupations (CMDO) which distributed the SI's demands on a much wider scale. After the end of the movement, the CMDO disbanded.\n\nBy 1972, Gianfranco Sanguinetti and Guy Debord were the only two remaining members of the SI. Working with Debord, in August 1975, Sanguinetti wrote a pamphlet titled \"Rapporto veridico sulle ultime opportunità di salvare il capitalismo in Italia\" (), which (inspired by Bruno Bauer) purported to be the cynical writing of \"Censor\", a powerful industrialist. The pamphlet argued that the ruling class of Italy supported the Piazza Fontana bombing and other covert, false flag mass slaughter for the higher goal of defending the capitalist status quo from communist influence. The pamphlet was mailed to 520 of Italy's most powerful individuals. It was received as genuine and powerful politicians, industrialists and journalists praised its content. After reprinting the tract as a small book, Sanguinetti revealed himself to be the true author. In the outcry that ensued and under pressure from Italian authorities Sanguinetti left Italy in February 1976, and was denied entry to France.\n\nAfter publishing in the last issue of the magazine an analysis of the May 1968 revolts, and the strategies that will need to be adopted in future revolutions, the SI was dissolved in 1972.\n\nThe \"Spectacle\" is a central notion in situationist theory, developed by Guy Debord in his 1967 book, \"The Society of the Spectacle\". In its limited sense, \"spectacle\" means the mass media, which are \"its most glaring superficial manifestation.\" Debord said that the society of the spectacle came to existence in the late 1920s.\n\nThe critique of the \"spectacle\" is a development and application of Karl Marx's concept of fetishism of commodities, reification and alienation, and the way it was reprised by György Lukács in 1923. In the society of the spectacle, the commodities rule the workers and the consumers instead of being ruled by them. The consumers are passive subjects that contemplate the reified spectacle.\n\nAs early as 1958, in the situationist manifesto, Debord described official culture as a \"rigged game\", where conservative powers forbid subversive ideas to have direct access to the public discourse. Such ideas get first trivialized and sterilized, and then they are safely incorporated back within mainstream society, where they can be exploited to add new flavors to old dominant ideas. This technique of the spectacle is sometimes called \"recuperation\", and its counter-technique is the \"détournement\".\n\nA \"détournement\" is a technique developed in the 1950s by the Letterist International, and consist in \"turning expressions of the capitalist system against itself,\" like turning slogans and logos against the advertisers or the political status quo. \"Détournement\" was prominently used to set up subversive political pranks, an influential tactic called situationist prank that was reprised by the punk movement in the late 1970s and inspired the culture jamming movement in the late 1980s.\n\nThe Situationist International, in the 15 years from its formation in 1957 and its dissolution in 1972, is characterized by a Marxist and surrealist perspective on aesthetics and politics, without separation between the two: art and politics are faced together and in revolutionary terms. The SI analyzed the modern world from the point of view of everyday life. The core arguments of the Situationist International were an attack on the capitalist degradation of the life of people and the fake models advertised by the mass media, to which the Situationist responded with alternative life experiences. The alternative life experiences explored by the Situationists were the construction of situations, unitary urbanism, psychogeography, and the union of play, freedom and critical thinking.\n\nA major stance of the SI was to count on the force of a revolutionary proletariat. This stance was reaffirmed very clearly in a discussion on \"To what extent is the SI a political movement?\", during the Fourth SI Conference in London. The SI remarked that this is a core Situationist principle, and that those that don't understand it and agree with it, are not Situationist.\n\nThe SI rejected all art that separated itself from politics, the concept of 20th-century art that is separated from topical political events. The SI believed that the notion of artistic expression being separated from politics and current events is one proliferated by reactionary considerations to render artwork that expresses comprehensive critiques of society impotent. They recognized there was a precise mechanism followed by reactionaries to defuse the role of subversive artists and intellectuals, that is, to reframe them as separated from the most topical events, and divert from them the taste for the new that may dangerously appeal the masses; after such separation, such artworks are sterilized, banalized, degraded, and can be safely integrated into the official culture and the public discourse, where they can add new flavors to old dominant ideas and play the role of a gear wheel in the mechanism of the society of the spectacle.\n\nAccording to this theory, artists and intellectuals that accept such compromises are rewarded by the art dealers and praised by the dominant culture. The SI received many offers to sponsor \"creations\" that would just have a \"situationist\" label but a diluted political content, that would have brought things back to order and the SI back into the old fold of artistic praxis. The majority of SI continued to refuse such offers and any involvement on the conventional avant-garde artistic plane. This principle was affirmed since the founding of the SI in 1957, but the qualitative step of resolving all the contradictions of having situationists that make concessions to the cultural market, was made with the exclusion of Gruppe SPUR in 1962.\n\nThe SI noted how reactionary forces forbid subversive ideas from artists and intellectuals to reach the public discourse, and how they attack the artworks that express comprehensive critique of society, by saying that art should not involve itself into politics.\n\nThe first edition of \"Internationale Situationniste\" defines the constructed situation as \"a moment of life concretely and deliberately constructed by the collective organization of a unitary ambiance and a game of events.\"\n\nAs the SI embraced dialectical Marxism, the situation came to refer less to a specific avant-garde practice than to the dialectical unification of art and life more generally. Beyond this theoretical definition, the situation as a practical manifestation thus slipped between a series of proposals. The SI thus were first led to distinguish the situation from the mere artistic practice of the happening, and later identified it in historical events such as the Paris Commune in which it exhibited itself as the revolutionary moment. The SI's interest in the Paris Commune was expressed in 1962 in their fourteen \"Theses on the Paris Commune\".\n\nThe first edition of \"Internationale Situationniste\" defined psychogeography as \"the study of the specific effects of the geographical environment (whether consciously organized or not) on the emotions and behavior of individuals.\" The term was first recognized in 1955 by Guy Debord while still with the Letterist International:\n\nBy definition, psychogeography combines subjective and objective knowledge and studies. Debord struggled to stipulate the finer points of this theoretical paradox, ultimately producing \"Theory of the Dérive\" in 1958, a document which essentially serves as an instruction manual for the psychogeographic procedure, executed through the act of dérive (\"drift\").\n\nSI engaged in a play-form that was also\npracticed by its predecessor organization, the Lettrist International, the art of wandering through urban space, which they termed dérive, whose unique mood is conveyed in Debord's darkly romantic meaning of palindrome. Two excursions organized by Andre Breton serve as the closest cultural precedents to the dérive. The first in 1921, was an excursion to the Church of Saint-Julien-le-Pauvre with the Parisian Dadaists; the second excursion was on May 1, 1923, when a small group of Surrealists walked toward the countryside outside of Blois. Debord was cautious however to differentiate between the derive and such precedents. He emphasized its active character as \"a mode of experimental behavior\" that reached to Romanticism, the Baroque, and the age of chivalry, with its tradition of long adventures voyages. Such urban roaming was characteristic of Left Bank bohemianism in Paris.\n\nIn the SI's 6th issue, Raoul Vaneigem writes in a manifesto of unitary urbanism, \"All space is occupied by the enemy. We are living under a permanent curfew. Not just the cops—the geometry\". Dérive, as a previously conceptualized tactic in the French military, was \"a calculated action determined by the absence of a greater locus\", and \"a maneuver within the enemy's field of vision\". To the SI, whose interest was inhabiting space, the dérive brought appeal in this sense of taking the \"fight\" to the streets and truly indulging in a determined operation. The dérive was a course of preparation, reconnaissance, a means of shaping situationist psychology among urban explorers for the eventuality of the situationist city.\n\nThe situationists observed that the worker of advanced capitalism still only functions with the goal of survival. In a world where technological efficiency has increased production exponentially, by tenfold, the workers of society still dedicate the whole of their lives to survival, by way of production. The purpose for which advanced capitalism is organized isn't luxury, happiness, or freedom, but production. The production of commodities is an end to itself; and production by way of survival.\n\nThe theorists of the Situationist International regarded the current paradigm of work in advanced capitalist society as increasingly absurd. As technology progresses, and work becomes exponentially efficient, the work itself becomes exponentially more trivial. The spectacle's social function is the concrete manufacture of alienation. Economic expansion consists primarily of the expansion of this particular sector of industrial production. The \"growth\" generated by an economy developing for its own sake can be nothing other than a growth of the very alienation that was at its origin.\n\nTwelve issues of the main French edition of journal \"Internationale Situationniste\" were published, each issue edited by a different individual or group, including: Guy Debord, Mohamed Dahoiu, Giuseppe Pinot-Gallizio, Maurice Wyckaert, Constant Nieuwenhuys, Asger Jorn, Helmut Sturm, Attila Kotanyi, Jørgen Nash, Uwe Lausen, Raoul Vaneigem, Michèle Bernstein, Jeppesen Victor Martin, Jan Stijbosch, Alexander Trocchi, Théo Frey, Mustapha Khayati, Donald Nicholson-Smith, René Riesel, and René Viénet.\n\nClassic Situationist texts include: \"On the Poverty of Student Life\", \"Society of the Spectacle\" by Guy Debord, and \"The Revolution of Everyday Life\" by Raoul Vaneigem.\n\nThe first English-language collection of SI writings, although poorly and freely translated, was \"Leaving The 20th century\" edited by Christopher Gray. \"The Situationist International Anthology\" edited and translated by Ken Knabb, collected numerous SI documents which had previously never been seen in English.\n\nRooted firmly in the Marxist tradition, the Situationist International criticized Trotskyism, Marxism–Leninism, Stalinism and Maoism from a position they believed to be further left and more properly Marxist. The situationists possessed a strong anti-authoritarian current, commonly deriding the centralized bureaucracies of China and the Soviet Union in the same breath as capitalism.\n\nDebord's work \"The Society of the Spectacle\" (1967) established situationist analysis as Marxist critical theory. \"The Society of the Spectacle\" is widely recognized as the main and most influential Situationist essay.\n\nThe concept of revolution created by the Situationist International was anti-capitalist, Marxist, Young Hegelian, and from the very beginning in the 50s, remarkably differently from the established Left, anti-Stalinist and against all repressive regimes.\n\nDebord starts his 1967 work with a revisited version of the first sentence with which Marx began his critique of classical political economy, \"Das Kapital\". In a later essay, Debord will argue that his work was the most important social critique since Marx's work. Drawing from Marx, which argued that under a capitalist society the \"wealth\" is degraded to an immense accumulation of commodities, Debord argues that in advanced capitalism, life is reduced to an immense accumulation of spectacles, a triumph of mere appearance where \"all that once was directly lived has become mere representation\". The spectacle, which according to Debord is the core feature of the advanced capitalist societies, has its \"most glaring superficial manifestation\" in the advertising-mass media-marketing complex.\n\nElaborating on Marx's argument that under capitalism our lives and our environment are continually depleted, Debord adds that the Spectacle is the system by which capitalism tries to hide such depletion. Debord added that, further than the impoverishment in the quality of life, our psychic functions are altered, we get a degradation of mind and also a degradation of knowledge. In the spectacular society, knowledge is not used anymore to question, analyze, or resolve contradictions, but to assuage reality. Such argument on the Spectacle as a mask of a degrading reality has been elaborated by many Situationist artists, producing détournements of advertising where instead of a shiny life the crude reality was represented. \n\nSituationist theorists advocated methods of operation that included democratic workers' councils and workers' self-management, interested in empowering the individual, in contrast to the perceived corrupt bureaucratic states of the Eastern bloc. Their anti-authoritarian interpretation of Marxist theory can be identified with the broader council communist and libertarian Marxist movements, themselves more broadly termed as left communism.\n\nThe last issue (1972) of the \"Situationist International\" journal, featured an editorial analyzing the events of May 1968. The editorial, written by Guy Debord, was titled \"The Beginning of an Era\", probably as a detournement reference of \"Nachalo\" (\"The Beginning\"), a Russian Marxist monthly magazine.\n\nAccording to Greil Marcus, some found similarities between the Situationists and the Yippies.\n\nFormer situationists Clark and Nicholson-Smith (British section), argued that the portion of the moderate Left that is the \"established Left\", and its \"Left opinion-makers\", usually addressed contemptuously the SI as \"hopelessly young-Hegelian\".\n\nThe Situationist International was differentiated from both anarchists and Marxists. In spite of this, they have frequently been associated with anarchism. Debord did a critical assessment of the anarchists in his 1967 \"The Society of the Spectacle\". In the final, 12th issue of the journal, the situationists rejected spontaneism and the \"mystics of nonorganization,\" labeling them as a form of \"sub-anarchism\":\n\nAccording to situationist Ken Knabb, Debord pointed out the flaws and merits of both Marxism and anarchism. He argued that \"the split between Marxism and anarchism crippled both sides. The anarchists rightly criticized the authoritarian and narrowly economistic tendencies in Marxism, but they generally did so in an undialectical, moralistic, ahistorical manner... and leaving Marx and a few of the more radical Marxists with a virtual monopoly on coherent dialectical analysis—until the situationists finally brought the libertarian and dialectical aspects back together again.\"\n\nThe SI poses a challenge to the model of political action of a portion of the left, the \"established Left\" and \"Left opinion-makers\". The first challenging aspect is the fueling role that the SI had in the upheavals of the political and social movements of the 1960s, upheavals for which much is still at stake and which many foresee as recurring in the 21st century. The second challenging aspect, is the comparison between the Situationist Marxist theory of the Society of the Spectacle, which is still very topical 30 years later, and the current status of the theories supported by leftist establishments in the same period, like Althusserianism, Maoism, workerism, Freudo-Marxism and others.\n\nThe response to this challenge has been an attempt to silence and misinterpret, to \"turn the SI safely into an art movement, and thereby to minimize its role in the political and social movements of the sixties\".\n\nThe core aspect of the revolutionary perspectives, and the political theory, of the Situationist International, has been neglected by some commentators, which either limited themselves to an apolitical reading of the situationist avant-garde art works, or dismissed the Situationist political theory. Examples of this are Simon Sadler's \"The Situationist City\", and the accounts on the SI published by the \"New Left Review\".\n\nThe concept of revolution created by the Situationist International was anti-capitalist, Marxist, Young Hegelian, and from the very beginning in the 1950s, remarkably differently from the established Left, anti-Stalinist and against all repressive regimes. The SI called in May 1968 for the formation of Workers councils, and someone has argued that they were aligned with council communism.\n\nThere was no separation between the artistic and the political perspectives. For instance, Asger Jorn never believed in a conception of the Situationist ideas as exclusively artistic and separated from political involvement. He was at the root and at the core of the Situationist International project, fully sharing the revolutionary intentions with Debord.\n\nCritics of the Situationists frequently assert that their ideas are not in fact complex and difficult to understand, but are at best simple ideas expressed in deliberately difficult language, and at worst actually nonsensical. For example, anarchist Chaz Bufe asserts in Listen Anarchist! that \"obscure situationist jargon\" is a major problem in the anarchist movement. Andrea Gibbons argues that the Parisian situationists failed to take on board practically or theoretically the experience of their African embers, such as is shown by Abdelhafid Khattib's experience of police harassment while conducting psychogeographic research on les Halles in 1958. She remarks how little the suppression of Algerians in Paris had on their activity and thinking – Bernstein and Debord co-signed the \"Declaration on the Right to Insubordination in the Algerian War\" in 1961, which led to them being questioned by the police. She cites a letter written by Jacqueline de Jong, Jorgen Nash, and Ansgar Elde protesting the expulsion of the \"Spur\" group in 1962 which highlights the political repression in Paris at that time. Gibbons also criticises the lack of mention of the Algerian situationists in either Debord's or Vaneigem's memoirs.\n\nDebord's analysis of the spectacle has been influential among people working on television, particularly in France and Italy; in Italy, TV programs produced by situationist intellectuals, like Antonio Ricci's \"Striscia la notizia\", or Carlo Freccero's programming schedule for \"Italia 1\" in the early 1990s.\n\nIn the 1960s and 1970s, anarchists, communists, and other leftists offered various interpretations of Situationist concepts in combination with a variety of other perspectives. Examples of these groups include: in Amsterdam, the Provos; in the UK, King Mob, the producers of \"Heatwave\" magazine (including Charles Radcliffe who later briefly joined the English Section of the Situationist International), and the Angry Brigade. In the US, groups like Black Mask (later Up Against the Wall Motherfuckers), The Weathermen, and the Rebel Worker group also explicitly employed their ideas.\n\nAnarchist theorists such as Fredy Perlman, Bob Black, Hakim Bey, and John Zerzan, have developed the SI's ideas in various directions away from Marxism. These theorists were predominantly associated with the magazines \"Fifth Estate\", \"\", and \"Green Anarchy\". During the early 1980s, English anarchist Larry Law produced the \"Spectacular Times\" pocket-books series, which aimed to make Situationist ideas more easily assimilated into the anarchist movement. Later anarchist theorists such as the CrimethInc. collective also claim Situationist influence.\n\nSituationist urban theory, defined initially by the members of the Lettrist International as \"Unitary Urbanism,\" was extensively developed through the behavioural and performance structures of The Workshop for Non-Linear Architecture during the 1990s. The re-emergence of the London Psychogeographical Association also inspired many new psychogeographical groups including Manchester Area Psychogeographic. The LPA and the Neoist Alliance along with the Luther Blissett Project came together to form a New Lettrist International with a specifically Communist perspective. Around this time, Unpopular Books and the LPA released some key texts including new translations of Asger Jorn's work.\n\nAround this time also, groups such as Reclaim the Streets and Adbusters have, respectively, seen themselves as \"creating situations\" or practicing detournement on advertisements.\n\nIn cultural terms, the SI's influence has arguably been greater, if more diffuse. The list of cultural practices which claim a debt to the SI is extensive, but there are some prominent examples:\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "45303438", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45303438", "title": "Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake", "text": "Sudden Shower over Shin-Ōhashi bridge and Atake\n\nThe well-known variant state of this print, the variant owned by Van Gogh, is in fact a later state. The first state depicted an additional two boats, a different background, less angular rain, and a carving error in the pylons that was corrected by handpainting.\n\nThe picture is part of the series \"One Hundred Famous Views of Edo\" which actually features 119 views of 'named places' or 'celebrated spots' in the area that is today Tokyo. The series was unique in being the first to feature this many separate landscape views.\nThe series was produced between 1856 and 1859 with Hiroshige II finishing the series after the death of Hiroshige in 1858. This print was published in the ninth month of 1857. The series was commissioned shortly after the 1855 Edo earthquake and subsequent fires and featured many of the newly rebuilt or repaired buildings. The prints may have commemorated or helped draw Edo's citizens attention to the progress of the rebuilding.\n\nThe print shows a small part of the wooden \"Ōhashi\" (Great) bridge diagonally across the foreground of the image as the bridge crosses the Sumida River. In the background is a boatman punting his log raft towards the Fukagawa timber yards, looking for shelter. Also seen is the far bank of the river in a part of Edo known as \"Atake\" after the government ship, the \"Atakemaru\" that was moored there. Two women and four or five men are shown crossing the bridge sheltering under hats, umbrellas or straw capes from a sudden shower of rain. Sudden showers are a recurring theme in ukiyo-e works and here in what Hiroshige calls \"white rain\" are depicted using a large number of thin dark parallel lines in 2 directions - a difficult skill in woodblock printing. At the top of the print are dark clouds from which the rain emanates, these are produced using a bokashi technique, another difficult printing technique, and vary significantly between prints. Other bokashi areas seen in some prints are the water around the bridge and the bridge's roadway. The rain, sheltering people and log raft at the centre of the image give the image a sense of movement.\n\nBridges have been sited at that same location since 1694. The wooden bridge depicted in the print was replaced by another bridge in 1885, completed in 1912 and later moved to a new site elsewhere. The current bridge at the site was erected in 1973.\n\nHiroshige's most popular prints were produced in the tens of thousands at a low individual cost and due to the opening up of Japan after 1853 were popular both in Japan and Europe where they had a huge influence on the future Impressionist artists. Whistler produced a number of prints and paintings using a bridge motif in London in the 1870s that were heavily influenced in their composition and subject by Hiroshige's many bridge prints. He used for example non-Western composition in the siting of the bridges, sometimes using no detailed foreground or background objects, scurrying undetailed people on the bridges, large area of negative space and the odd boat on the river. The theme of scurrying people sheltering from the weather under umbrellas that is typical of \"One Hundred Views of Edo\" was an influence on Félix Buhot's \"Le Petit Enterrement\" and Hiroshige's high horizons, areas of blue wash and strong foreground imagery with lack of middle ground influenced Auguste-Louis Lepère's prints such as \"La Convalescente: Madame Lepère\".\nVincent van Gogh was a major collector of Japanese prints, decorating his studio with them. He was heavily influenced by these prints, particularly Hiroshige, and made copies of two of the \"One Hundred Famous Views of Edo\", \"Plum Park in Kameido\" and this one. He made these copies in order to try out for himself elements he admired such as the cropped composition, blocks of colour with strong outlines and diagonal elements.\nVan Gogh's painting used brighter colours with greater contrast than the original, conspicuous brushstrokes rather than areas of flat colour, and was also framed with a selection of Van Gogh's approximations to Japanese characters.\n\nHiroshige's print was listed by \"The Observer\"s art critic Laura Cumming as one of the 10 best skies in art.\n\nThe composer Geoffrey Poole produced the work \"Crossing Ohashi Bridge\" for the Goldberg Ensemble and named after Hiroshige's print.\n"}
{"id": "6021797", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6021797", "title": "Swedish art", "text": "Swedish art\n\nSwedish art refers to the visual arts produced in Sweden or by Swedish artists. Sweden has existed as country for over 1,000 years, and for times before this, as well as many subsequent periods, Swedish art is usually considered as part of the wider Nordic art of Scandinavia. It has, especially since about 1100, been strongly influenced by wider trends in European art. After World War II, the influence of the United States strengthened substantially. Due to generous art subsidies, contemporary Swedish art has a big production per capita.\n\nThough usually not especially a major centre for art production or exporter of art, Sweden has been relatively successful in keeping its art; in particular, the relatively mild nature of the Swedish Reformation, and the lack of subsequent extensive rebuilding and redecoration of churches, has meant that with other Scandinavian countries, Sweden has unusually rich survivals of medieval church paintings and fittings. One period when Nordic art exerted a strong influence over the rest of northern Europe was in Viking art, and there are many survivals, both in stone monuments left untouched around the countryside, and objects excavated in modern times.\n\nThe Reformation greatly disrupted Swedish artistic traditions, and left the existing body of painters and sculptors without large markets. The requiremnents of the court and aristocracy were mainly for portraits, usually by imported artists, and it was not until the late 17th or 18th centuries that large numbers of Swedes were trained in contemporary styles. The political success of the Vasa dynasty led to a considerable revival, expressed in the \"Gustavan style\", which again had some influence over neighbouring countries. \n\nAmong famous Swedish artists are Johan Tobias Sergel, Carl Milles, Anders Zorn, Carl Larsson and Carl Eldh. \n\nWhen the ice age ended, the Scandinavian peninsula was populated from the south by hunters and gatherers. Art surviving from that period are Stone Age expressions and is simple and reflects the available material. Only the truly persistent art forms have survived the ravages of time: petroglyphs, are such an expression. The earliest rock carvings in the form of symbols, characters and images are carved in rock outcrops and boulders. They began to be produced about 7000 BC. Sweden has one of the largest concentrations of petroglyphs with a local center in Tanum Municipality in Bohuslän province.\nDuring the Bronze Age, a spiral ornamentation was produced in the style that existed in Denmark. From about 400 AD, the development of the Nordic animal ornamentation, an unusually rich and imaginative style that reached its peak during the 7th century with the so-called Vendel style. Animal ornamentation experienced a renewed flourishing of the rune stones. Rune stones - some of which are quite illustrative and are therefore called “image blocks” - were added between about 200 AD and 1130 with a flourishing between the period 980-1100. As an art form, the rune stone is specific to the Nordic culture. Sweden leads the way with the highest amount of rune stones with a total of 2,800 inscriptions. Approximately 85% of all the identified blocks have been in Sweden. The stones were originally painted and combined text with ornamentation and stylized characters. They can be divided into seven different styles. Some of the first known image-makers in Sweden were, in fact, rune carvers.\n\nSweden, especially the south of the country, also participated in Viking Age art, along with the rest of Scandinavia.\n\nWith the advent of Christianity came a new iconography, originally established in the churches, particularly in the form of altar screens, crucifixes, and stones. According to the Swedish History Museum, no other country has such a rich and comprehensive collection of medieval liturgical art. Creativity was shown in Romanesque art products fabrics and gold works. From the 13th century, Gotland was a center for sculptors, such as the anonymous Master Majestatis. The Gothic style came to Sweden during the second half of the 13th century. Linköping Cathedral is mostly conducted in English Gothic style and contains richly decorated sculptures. Several works from this period exhibit a French influence, for example the triumphal cross from Öja Church, Gotland and St. Erik's statue in Roslags-Bro Church in Uppland. There are also Gothic monumental paintings on wood in Sweden.\n\nVisual narratives gained momentum in the churches in central Sweden in the late 15th century by masters such as Nils Håkansson, Master Petrus. Håkansson's student, Albert the painter, however, was to become far more famous for his religious paintings in Uppland. Motives during this period were often religious or mythical. Albert the painter, motivated by a chess playing Grim Reaper in Täby Church, was the inspiration for Ingmar Bergman's film \"The Seventh Seal\" almost 600 years later.\n\nContemporary with Albertus the Painter is the famous sculpture of Saint George and the Dragon in the Great Church of Stockholm. It was made by the German-born painter and sculptor Bernt Notke, one of the late Middle Ages the most important northern European artists. Notke, who periodically lived in Sweden, was very productive and had great influence with an intense and expressionistic style.\n\nThe Vasa period of art consisted largely of portraits of princes, which were painted by foreign artists who were active in Sweden. Urban Larsson with his \"Vädersoltavla\" from 1535, in the Great Church in Stockholm, was an exception. He is one of the few well-known Swedish artists during the Vasa period and the Renaissance era.\n\nThe pompous, happy and decorative made its entrance in the 17th century Great Power - during the 17th and 18th centuries the first few decades - was a grand time for architecture. A number of castles, mansions and churches built, like the Royal Palace, meant that artists were called from abroad. These foreign artists trained new generations of Swedish artists. More significant art collections were acquired through spoils of war. One famous artist was the court painter David Klöcker Ehrenstrahl. Ehrenstral was also a portraitist and animal painter, and worked with the Drottningholm Palace, together with Johan Sylvius. Erik Dahlbergh depicted the superpower era of Sweden in the great work \"Suecia Antiqua et Hodierna\". Other painters were David von Krafft, Michael Dahl.\n\nLiberty and the Gustavian period was a major cultural boom in Sweden. At this time, Rococo was the initial style. Future portrait paintings made it internationally known in Swedish painting. During the period, many Swedish artists moved to continental Europe. A representative of the rococo was Gustaf Lundberg. His technique was long dominant in the Swedish portrait arts, and he is represented at the Louvre and the National Museum and Art Academy. The French painter Guillaume Taraval was called upon to decorate the Royal Palace. Together with Carl Hårleman he advocated the new relaxed style. A leading style artist was Jean Eric Rehn, a student of Hårleman, who worked as craftsmen, architect and artist.\n\nAlexander Roslin took inspiration from France and conducted many highly sensitive portraits of the era's finest personalities. Some of Roslin's portraits are among the most reproduced from the period. Of major importance was also Carl Gustaf Pilo, who became a court painter in Denmark. Pilo was inspired both by Venetian artists and the Dutchman Rembrandt van Rijn. Pilo returned, however, to Sweden and then painted the great work Gustaf III's coronation in Stockholm Cathedral.\n\nOther prominent names were Johan Pasch, Per Krafft the Elder, Peter Adolf Hall and, perhaps most importantly, Johan Tobias Sergel. Over time, beginning around 1770, Rococo was succeeded in Sweden by the Gustavian period. Swedish neoclassicism is said to have begun around 1785. The Gustavian period was characterized by both French and English influence. \nAfter Gustav III's death, there was a period of stagnation in Swedish art. On the other hand, peasant painting flourished in particular, Dalarna and Hälsingland with painting and Dala horses during this time. Peasantry painting became a major inspiration for the 18th century artist Carl Larsson. Gothicism and Neoclassicism were the styles of art for several decades, including artists like the sculptor Bengt Fogelberg. Fogelberg, who was inspired by the Danish sculptor Bertel Thorvaldsen, created powerful statues of Nordic gudagestalter and historical figures.\n\nFrom the mid-19th century and a few decades later, nature paintings dominated the scene, with Marcus Larsson in the lead. Artists that pointed to something new were Egron Lundgren and Carl Fredrik Hill. Hill became one of the foremost Swedish landscape-painters as he had views that reflected his personality and often express despair and darkness. Egron Lundberg developed watercolor art, as he traveled extensively in Europe and Asia, and painted his findings. Even history painting was done extensively during the period, including artists such as Carl Gustav Hellquist Gustaf and Cederstrom. Another painter was August Malmström who created historic and romantic nature works and illustrated many fairytales.\n\nFrom an international perspective Swedish-produced art languished in obscurity until the late 19th century, when a number of Swedish artists gained attention outside of Sweden. Especially the 1880s and the following two decades were periods of greatness in the Swedish art. Perhaps the best artist of them is the painter, sculptor, and printmaker Anders Zorn. Zorn was an extremely talented oil painter with a very precise but free style. Anders Zorn painted landscapes and people and is known for his nude studies of the hillocks from Dalarna. Zorn was also concerned with depicting peasant life in his home province of Dalarna. Woman artist Amalia Lindegren also created glorified scenes of the Swedish peasant and folk. Zorn was counted as one of the foremost painters in Europe in the late 19th century and made many portraits of contemporary celebrities. Some famous work is \"Love's Nymph\" (1883), \"A Prime\" (1888), \"Midsummer Dance\" (1897), \"President Grover Cleveland\" (1899) and \"Bathing hills\" (1906). Zorn's art is featured at the Musée d'Orsay in Paris and the White House, and his works are among the most valued of all Swedish artists.\n\nAnother big name from this generation is Carl Larsson. Larsson, like Zorn, appeared in Dalarna and is one of the most beloved Swedish artists. Larsson painted primarily in watercolor and his motives were found in daily life: he often portrayed his own family and their home in Sundborn. His style is airy, very light and is characterized by a skillful interplay of surfaces and lines. Larsson created frescoes and wall paintings, like Midvinterblot and several other frescoes in the Nationalmuseum in Stockholm. Larsson became very famous in Germany in connection with an art book, A Home, that was published there. Another painter who achieved great popular popularity was Bruno Liljefors with very precise paintings of nature and animals in motion. \n\nTwo painters with great stylistic ability were Eugène Jansson and Ernst Josephson. Jansson's paintings, which took stylistic inspiration from van Gogh, are often simple geometric forms a large, quiet Stockholm Ground and powerful male figures. Josephsson is more varied and known for masterful oil portraits. He became an inspiration for the later modernism. Portrait painting was also developed by Richard Bergh as well as by Nils Kreuger. A significant development came in 1885 with the artist's group The Opponents, who wanted to renew the Swedish painting and collected many of those names. A few years later, in the 1890s, Bergh and Kreuger founded the Dorset School together with Karl Nordström. They reacted against the realistic landscape style and were inspired by Paul Gauguin. Especially Nordström was inspired by the French impressionists. A close friend of Nordström was the author and the universal genius of August Strindberg. Even Strindberg was an important Swedish painter from the period. The rise of women artists, such as Eva Bonnier, and Hanna Pauli, who, among other things, took inspiration from Rembrandt, also becomes prominent in this period.\n\nModernism began to enter Swedish art with Axel Törneman and then the Men of 1909, which was a group of young male artists, mainly from the Artist League school. More abstract forms were represented by Hilma af Klint, Nils von Dardel and Gösta Adrian Nilsson.\n\nThe mid-1920s and a couple of decades following were both characterized by surrealism, the Halmstad Group, and of expressionism, which includes Gothenburg Schools realists, Sven Erixson and Bror Hjorth and a rigorous formalist, abstract minimalism of artists such as Olle Bærtling. Among the sculptors of the period are Carl Eldh and Carl Milles. Both have had great influence and the latter is perhaps the most famous Swedish sculptor of all time. From the same generation of sculptors came the self-taught wood sculptor and realist people portrayer Axel Petersson Döderhultarn.\n\nAfter World War II, Swedish art was something of a boom and a host of artists established themselves. With a new democratic idea that art was founded for everyone in 1947, popular movements promoting art and in the same period also launched a variety of arts organizations across the country. Among the 1930s radicals as painter Albin Amelin and graphic artist and monumental painter Torsten Billman the work continued to bring images to the working people. Torsten Billman could also through his literary illustrations reach new groups. In the 1950s expressionists emerged like Torsten Renqvist and more informal painter Rune Jansson and Eddie Figge.\n\nIn the early 1960s, was revitalized by the Swedish graphic artists as Philip von Schantz and Nils G. Stenqvist.\n\n"}
{"id": "3506429", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3506429", "title": "Swing gang", "text": "Swing gang\n\nIn film-making, a swing gang is one or more persons who make last-minute changes on a film set. This may include construction of new portions of a set the director requests or simply striking large furniture at a set decorator's request. The swing gang is part of the set dressing department. Sets that are not part of the \"permanent\" sets are called swing set. They come and go as the scripts dictate. Thus the crew that handles the set dressing elements are called the swing gang. These sets may need to be struck during the late evening or the \"swing shift\".\n"}
{"id": "3185575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3185575", "title": "The Color Purple (film)", "text": "The Color Purple (film)\n\nThe Color Purple is a 1985 American coming-of-age period drama film directed by Steven Spielberg with a screenplay by Menno Meyjes, based on the Pulitzer Prize-winning 1982 novel of the same name by Alice Walker. It was Spielberg's eighth film as a director, and was a change from the summer blockbusters for which he had become famous. The film was also the first feature-length film directed by Spielberg for which John Williams did not compose the music. The film stars Whoopi Goldberg, Danny Glover, Desreta Jackson, Margaret Avery, Oprah Winfrey (in her film debut), Rae Dawn Chong, Willard Pugh, and Adolph Caesar in one of his final film roles.\n\nFilmed in Anson and Union counties in North Carolina, the film tells the story of a young African American girl named Celie Harris and shows the problems African American women faced during the early 20th century, including domestic violence, incest, pedophilia, poverty, racism, and sexism. Celie is transformed as she finds her self-worth through the help of two strong female companions.\n\nThe film was a box office success, raising $142 million from a budget of $15 million. The film received positive reviews from critics, receiving praise for its acting, direction, screenplay, score, and production merits; but it was also criticized by some critics for being \"over-sentimental\" and \"stereotypical.\" The film was nominated for eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, without winning any; it also received four Golden Globe Award nominations, with Whoopi Goldberg winning Best Actress in a Drama. Steven Spielberg didn't receive an Academy Award nomination for his directing, but did receive a Directors Guild of America Award for Outstanding Directorial Achievement, and a Golden Globe nomination. The film was later included in Roger Ebert's book series \"The Great Movies\".\n\nCelie Harris is an African-American teenager in early 20th century rural Georgia who had had two children by her abusive stepfather, both of whom have been taken from her. She is given away as a wife to widower Albert Johnson, who already has three children, and is soon abused. Celie's sister Nettie, whom she has vowed to protect, escapes their abusive stepfather and seeks shelter at the Johnson estate. Albert immediately takes a romantic interest in Nettie and lets her stay, where she and Celie promise to write each other should they ever be separated. Nettie teaches Celie to read and the two are happy together, until Albert sexually assaults Nettie while on her way to school. She successfully fights him off, and is forcibly removed from the property.\n\nYears later, Celie is now a meek adult who has avoided standing up to Johnson's continued abuse. His eldest son Harpo marries his girlfriend Sofia, a strong-willed, boisterous character, and Celie is shocked to find her running a matriarchal household. On Albert's advice, Harpo attempts to overpower and strike Sofia in an attempt to better control her. After he fails, he asks Celie what to do. Confronted with her own inability to stand up to abuse, she also advises Harpo to start beating Sofia. Sofia forcefully retaliates, and confronts Celie about what she told Harpo, threatening to kill him if he beats her again and telling Celie to do likewise to Albert. Sofia eventually leaves Harpo, taking her children with her.\n\nJohnson and Harpo bring home Shug Avery, a showgirl and the former's long-time mistress, as she suffers from an unknown illness. Celie, who has slowly developed a fondness for Shug through a photograph sent to Johnson, does not object to Shug's presence, and is in awe of Shug's strong-will and ability to stand up to Albert. She goes above and beyond in nursing Shug back to health, and Shug in turn takes a liking to her, writing and performing a song about her at Harpo's newly-opened bar. Obsessed with Shug, Celie follows her around and learns she is in ill standing with the reverend, who is angry about Shug’s wild lifestyle. Celie decides to follow Shug to Memphis, but gets caught by Albert while she’s frantically packing her things.\n\nSofia is imprisoned and separated from her children after being instigated into a violent confrontation that results in a riot. Years pass, and she is released from prison only to be immediately ordered by the judge to become a maid to the Mayor's wife, Ms. Millie. Having not seen her children in eight years, Sofia is allotted Christmas to be with her family, and Ms. Millie tries to drive her, but panics and turns around after encountering a group of Sofia's friends who are only trying to help her.\n\nShug returns to the Johnson household with her new husband Grady, expecting to receive a recording contract. Shug gives Celie a letter from Nettie, who tells her that she's working for a couple that has adopted Celie's children. Celie and Shug realize that Johnson has been hiding Nettie's letters from Celie; while he and Grady are out drinking, the two search the house and find a hidden compartment under the floorboards filled with dozens and dozens of letters. Engrossed in reading Nettie’s letters, Celie does not hear Albert’s calls to shave him and he beats her. Celie considers killing Albert with the straight-razor, but Shug intervenes and stops her. At a family gathering including the Johnsons, the Averys, and Sofia's family, Celie finally speaks up against Albert, to Shug and Sofia’s delight, who breaks her silence and finds her old fighting spirit, which prompts Harpo’s new wife to stand up for herself as well. Johnson continues to berate Celie, who then threatens and curses him. Shug and Grady drive away, taking Celie with them.\n\nYears later, Celie owns and operates a tailor shop, Johnson is old and alone, and Harpo has made amends with Sofia; the two now running the bar together. Celie's stepfather passes away, and she finally learns from Nettie’s letters that he wasn't their biological father, and that when their mother passed, the Harris property was legally inherited by Celie and Nettie. After not having performed since her illness, Shug starts singing at Harpo’s bar again. Johnson receives a letter from Nettie addressed to Celie, takes money from his secret stash and helps Nettie, her husband, and Celie’s children return to the USA, where they finally reunite while Johnson watches from a distance.\n\nThe film premiered on December 20, 1985, and went on general release on February 7, 1986. \"The Color Purple\" was shown at the 1986 Cannes Film Festival as a non-competing title.\n\n\"The Color Purple\" was a success at the box office, staying in U.S. theaters for 21 weeks, and grossing over $142 million worldwide. In terms of box office income, it ranked as the #1 rated PG-13 film released in 1985, and #4 overall.\n\nThe film received positive reviews from critics, receiving praise for its acting, direction, screenplay, score, and production merits, but was criticized by some for being \"over-sentimental\" and \"stereotypical.\" Rotten Tomatoes gives the film a score of 85% based on reviews from 27 critics, with an average score of 6.9/10. The website's critical consensus states: \"A sentimental tale that reveals great emotional truths in American history.\" On Metacritic, which assigns a normalized rating to reviews, the film has a weighted average score of 78 out of 100, based on 8 critics, indicating \"generally favorable reviews\".\n\nRoger Ebert of the \"Chicago Sun-Times\" awarded the film four stars, calling it \"the year's best film.\" He also praised Whoopi Goldberg, calling her role \"one of the most amazing debut performances in movie history\" and predicting she would win the Academy Award for Best Actress. (She was nominated but did not win.) Ebert wrote of \"The Color Purple\":\nEbert's long-time television collaborator, Gene Siskel of the \"Chicago Tribune\", praised the film as \"triumphantly emotional and brave,\" calling it Spielberg's \"successful attempt to enlarge his reputation as a director of youthful entertainments.\" Siskel wrote that \"The Color Purple\" was \"a plea for respect for black women.\" Although acknowledging that the film was a period drama, he praised its \"... incredibly strong stand against the way black men treat black women. Cruel is too kind a word to describe their behavior. The principal black men in \"The Color Purple\" use their women — both wives and daughters — as sexual chattel.\"\n\n\"New York Times\" film critic Janet Maslin noted the film's divergence from Walker's book, but made the case that this shift works:\n\"Variety\" found the film over-sentimental, writing, \"there are some great scenes and great performances in \"The Color Purple\", but it is not a great film. Steven Spielberg's turn at 'serious' film-making is marred in more than one place by overblown production that threatens to drown in its own emotions.\"\n\nIn addition, some critics alleged that the movie stereotyped black people in general and black men in particular, pointing to the fact that Spielberg, a Jew, had directed a predominantly African American story.\n\nFilmmaker Oliver Stone defended \"The Color Purple\" as \"an excellent movie, and it was an attempt to deal with an issue that had been overlooked, and it wouldn't have been done if it hadn't been Spielberg. And it's not like everyone says, that he ruined the book. That's horseshit. Nobody was going to \"do\" the book. He made the book live again.\"\n\nIn 2004, Ebert included \"The Color Purple\" in his list of \"Great Movies\". He stated that \"I can see its flaws more easily than when I named it the best film of 1985, but I can also understand why it moved me so deeply, and why the greatness of some films depends not on their perfection or logic, but on their heart.\"\n\n\"The Color Purple\" was nominated for eleven Academy Awards, including Best Picture, Best Actress for Goldberg and Best Supporting Actress for both Avery and Winfrey. It failed to win any of them, tying the record set by 1977's \"The Turning Point\" for the most Oscar nominations without a single win. The film was also nominated for four Golden Globe Awards at the 43rd Golden Globe Awards, with Whoopi Goldberg winning Best Actress in a Motion Picture – Drama.\n\nMeyjes was also nominated for the BAFTA Award for Best Adapted Screenplay at the 40th awards ceremony and the Writers Guild of America Award for Best Adapted Screenplay at the 38th awards ceremony.\n\nSpielberg received his first Directors Guild of America Award at the 38th awards ceremony for Outstanding Directorial Achievement in Motion Pictures. He became the first director to win the award without even being nominated for the Academy Award for Best Director.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43792691", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43792691", "title": "The Five Senses (pair of paintings)", "text": "The Five Senses (pair of paintings)\n\nThe Five Senses are a pair of oil paintings made by Jan Brueghel the Elder and others in 1617–18, at the same time as he was working with Peter Paul Rubens on a series of five paintings on the same topic. The originals were lost in a fire in 1731; faithful copies dated to c. 1620 were preserved and are in the Prado Museum in Madrid.\n\nBrueghel, like Rubens, was at this time working in Antwerp at the court of Albert VII, Archduke of Austria, and his wife Isabella, governors of the Spanish Netherlands. Allegorical paintings representing the five senses as female nudes had become fashionable in the previous century, but Brueghel introduced the illustration of the theme by means of assemblages of works of art, musical instruments, scientific instruments and military equipment, accompanied by flowers, game and fish, which was widely adopted by Flemish artists.\n\nThe two paintings were commissioned by the City of Antwerp to be presented to the archducal couple, and were executed by \"twelve of the best masters of [the] city\". They were paid for in October 1618. In 1619 they were in the audience chamber at Tervuren Castle. In 1731 they were destroyed in the fire at Coudenberg Palace. The surviving pair are close copies by Brueghel, Gerard Seghers, Frans Francken the Younger and Joost de Momper; they were in Spain by 1633, where they were housed in various royal palaces before becoming part of the foundation collection of the Prado in 1819.\n\nThe pair of paintings are unique in including copies of their own works by a group of masters of the Antwerp school. In \"Sight and Smell\", the paintings in the background include \"The Healing of the Blind\", representing spiritual sight, in contrast with physical sight, represented by a magnifying glass. A telescope in the foreground and a hallway in the rear, lined with art works, leading to an open door into nature and lit from above by shafts of sunlight, also refer to aspects of this sense. The female figure epitomising sight is looking at her reflection in a mirror which is held up for her by a putto, while the other female figure, representing smell, receives a bouquet of flowers from another putto. The dog represents an acute sense of smell, and the civet, stenches.\n\nIn \"Taste, Hearing and Touch\", the central scene is a meal; a lutenist is playing and children singing, epitomising hearing, while one young woman strokes a mink in her arms, representing touch, and another is about to eat oysters, representing taste. Details such as the clavichord and other musical instruments on the left relate to hearing, and a monkey is pulling the hair of a Cupid, a form of touch. The room and the hall visible in the right rear display pictures which are also related to the three senses: \"The Annunciation\" and \"Minerva's Visit to Parnassus\" (hearing), \"The Dentist\" (touch), and \"The Punishment of Rich Epulon\" and \"The Wedding at Cana\" (taste).\n\n"}
{"id": "2237791", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2237791", "title": "Uli figure", "text": "Uli figure\n\nUli figures are wooden statues from New Ireland in Papua New Guinea. Like their neighbors to the north and south, the artistic traditions of the peoples of central New Ireland formerly focused largely around mortuary rites. In contrast to the intricate \"malagan\" carvings of the north, artists in central New Ireland produced less ornate but more permanent figures known as \"uli\", which were kept and reused many times. No longer made today, uli were displayed as part of lengthy fertility rites involving the exhumation and reburial of human skulls, which accompanied the planting of sacred plants. \n\nWhen a newly carved uli was brought out, a shaman assisted in inducing the spirit of the deceased chief to enter the carving, and after the ceremony, the work was kept in the \"men's house\" where it would continue to aid the successor and his people.\n\nUli figures appear hermaphroditic, having both a phallus and prominent breasts. This blending of male and female features possibly symbolized the fertile and nourishing powers of clan leaders, who were expected to provide for the other members of the clan. The Uli figures probably symbolized the connection between paternal and maternal life energy in initiation ceremonies.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "34755680", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34755680", "title": "Vbeauté", "text": "Vbeauté\n\nvbeauté was founded by Julie Macklowe to provide women with Swiss made anti-age skincare products. vbeauté is a skin care line based on advanced botanical technology using plant stem cell complexes. Julie Macklow launched vbeauté on November 1, 2011. vbeauté's range of products include: peptide-based anti-aging face and eye serums, moisturizers, eye cream, sunscreen, and a face cleanser and exfoliator.\nvbeauté’s key ingredient in all of their products is Swiss Alpine Rose, a cold-resistant plant from the Swiss Alps. The plant is known to provide anti-oxidant protection and protection against UV rays. vbeauté formulas also contain stem cells extracted from Nicotiana sylvestris plant. Together, along with several other botanical ingredients, these plant extracts combine to form a complex compound which has anti-aging and protective properties. All vbeauté products are formulated in Switzerland, free of fragrance and parabens, and dermatologist and allergy tested. \n\nvbeauté was launched by investor and former hedge fund manager Julie Macklowe in 2011. During her travels, Macklowe could not find a suitable skincare product to meet her everyday needs. She then partnered with molecular scientists from the Centre de Recherches Biocosmétiques (CRB High Performance Care) of Geneva to formulate her products. By 2011, Macklowe had raised over $4,000,000 for lab work and testing. The skin care line's main ingredient contains stem cells from the Alpine Rose flower. The Alpine Rose is a small pink flower which is known for its resilient properties and can only be found in the harsh climate of the Swiss alps, where it endures high altitudes, extreme temperatures, and dryness. \nInitially, vbeauté was launched at Bergdorf Goodman's, a luxury goods department store based in New York City. After two years at Bergdorf's, the company appeared on the Home Shopping Network. vbeauté is the first luxury skincare line that took exactly the same products, ingredients, and packaging offered at higher price points at Bergdorf Goodman, and brought the same quality at more affordable pricing via HSN. At HSN, customers' describe vbeauté as an affordable skincare line, which is something Macklowe believes \"no other brand has really done.\" Macklowe says that she learned the company was spending a lot of money on advertising and selling expenses, however the company's vision was \"that all women should have the best skincare.\"\n\nMacklowe launched vbeauté at a charity event coinciding with her 35th birthday. At the time of its launch in November 2011, the line was carried at 37 stores, some of which include: Neiman Marcus, Fred Segal, Nordstroms, and Bergdorf Goodman. The product was featured in \"O Magazine\", which called it \"a gorgeous way to keep jet lag at bay.\" In 2013, vbeauté expanded to be sold at Look Boutiques in Duane Reade and Walgreens stores in New York City, Los Angeles, and Miami. Macklowe's goal for the company is to provide lightweight and affordable skin care products, saying that, “when I think about all of the luxury lines out there, they feel like they were almost made for my mother. They’re heavy, and their price points were also of such. I want to keep everything really affordable.”\n\nThe vbeauté line offers a total of 8 products with 4 new products launching in 2016, as well as an extension to the line slated for 2017. The different types of products offered by vbeauté include: light anti-aging serum, exfoliant, foaming cleanser, moisturizer, peptide-based eye crème, and intense brightening treatment. The products can be bought together as part of the \"It Kit\" or individually, in larger amounts. All of vbeauté’s products are fragrance free, dermatologist and allergy tested, and paraben free, due to Macklowe’s personal issues with sensitive skin.\n\n"}
{"id": "30730141", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30730141", "title": "Velificatio", "text": "Velificatio\n\nVelificatio is a stylistic device used in ancient Roman art to frame a deity by means of a billowing garment. It represents \"vigorous movement,\" an epiphany, or \"the vault of heaven,\" often appearing with celestial, weather, or sea deities. It is characteristic of the iconography of the Aurae, the Breezes personified, and one of the elements which distinguish representations of Luna, the Roman goddess of the Moon, alluding to her astral course.\n\nA figure so framed is a velificans (plural velificantes). Not all deities are portrayed as \"velificantes\", but the device might be used to mark a member of the Imperial family who had been divinized (a \"divus\" or \"diva\").\n\n\"Velificatio\" is a frequent device in Roman art, including painting, mosaic, relief, and sculpture, though it poses technical difficulties for freestanding sculpture. The Athenian sculptor Praxiteles was able to achieve it. The term is also used to describe Hellenistic art. The device continued to be used in later Western art, in which it is sometimes described as an \"aura\", \"a breeze that blows from either without or from within that lifts the veil to reveal the face of an otherwise invisible being.\"\n\nIn classical Latin, the abstract noun \"velificatio\" is uncommon, and refers to the act of setting sail, from \"velum\", \"sail\" (but also \"cloth, garment, veil\") and the \"-fic-\" combining element from \"-ficio, -ficere\" (= \"facio, facere\", \"do, make\"). The verbal form was the basis for modern scholarly usage. Pliny describes \"Aurae velificantes sua veste\", the Breezes \"making a sail with their own garment\" at the Porticus Octaviae (\"Portico of Octavia\"). Such depictions of the Aurae are known from extant Roman art, and have been used as comparative material to identify the pair of \"velificantes\" in a scene from the Augustan Altar of Peace. On the basis of a passage from the \"Carmen Saeculare\" of Horace, composed and performed for Augustus's staging of the Saecular Games in 17 BC, the central figure is often identified as Tellus (Earth):\n\nFertile in produce and cattle, let Tellus grant Ceres a crown of grain; let the healthful waters and breezes of Jove nourish offspring.\n\nNot all scholars agree on this analysis of the scene. The creatures on which the \"velificantes\" are seated also suggest Nereids, and the reference may point to the Cult of the Nymphs.\n\nThe significance of the veil is sometimes explained in terms of the initiation rites of the mystery religions. Initiates wore drapery or a veil which was lifted by a priestess. The veil was a symbol of death, and its removal in the rite signified the initiate's rebirth. The \"velificatio\" thus appears in scenes on sarcophagi and in other funerary art.\n\nThe \"velificatio\" motif may be found with numerous deities, divine beings, and \"divi\", including:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51484130", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51484130", "title": "William Henry Margetson", "text": "William Henry Margetson\n\nWilliam Henry Margetson (December 1861 – 2 January 1940) was an English painter and illustrator, mainly known for his aesthetic portraits of women.\n\nMargetson was born in London. He studied at Dulwich College, and later at the Royal College of Art and the Royal Academy of Arts. In 1885 he first exhibited at the Royal Academy, and later also at the Royal Society of British Artists, the Royal Institute of Oil Painters and the Grosvenor Gallery.\n\nMargetson painted in oils and watercolours. He made his name with portraits of beautiful women, often with modern hairstyles and hats. He also created religious and allegorical artworks. To begin with he worked in an academic, Victorian style. Later he would use a looser brushstyle inspired by the post-impressionists and the pre-raphaelites, and in particular Lawrence Alma-Tadema. His most successful work was the classically decorative \"The Sea Hath its Pearls\" which he exhibited in 1897 at the Royal Academy, now in the possession of the Art Gallery of New South Wales, in Australia.\n\nA portrait of Alfred Tennyson by Margetson is in the National Portrait Gallery in London.\n\nMargetson also worked as an illustrator of books. He was married to the artist Helen Hatton, who he met when they worked on an illustration project together. He lived and worked first in London and later in Blewbury and Wallingford. He died in Wallingford, Oxfordshire, in 1940, at the age of 78.\n\n"}
{"id": "700608", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=700608", "title": "Yuzhnoye Design Office", "text": "Yuzhnoye Design Office\n\nYuzhnoye Design Office (; ), located in Dnipro, Ukraine, is a designer of satellites and rockets, and formerly of Soviet intercontinental ballistic missiles (ICBMs) established by Mikhail Yangel. Yuzhnoye's OKB designation was OKB-586.\n\nThe company is in close co-operation with the Yuzhmash multi-product machine-building company also situated in Dnipro. Yuzhmash is the main manufacturer of the models developed by Yuzhnoye Design Office.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
