{"id": "53695544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=53695544", "title": "Access to public information in Cyprus", "text": "Access to public information in Cyprus\n\nAccess to public information and freedom of information (FOI) refer to the right of access to information held by public bodies also known as \"right to know\". Access to public information is considered of fundamental importance for the effective functioning of democratic systems, as it enhances governments' and public officials' accountability, boosting people participation and allowing their informed participation into public life. The fundamental premise of the right of access to public information is that the information held by governmental institutions is in principle public and may be concealed only on the basis of legitimate reasons which should be detailed in the law.\n\nThe right of access to information in Cyprus is guaranteed in constitutional provisions on freedom of expression but the legal framework is seriously flawed, with no law on access to information in the Southern Republic of Cyprus of the country and a law that falls below Council of Europe standards in the Northern part of Cyprus. The right to access to public information is provided in different ways in the two parts of the island, in which Cyprus is \"de facto\" divided.\n\nAs to 2011, a research by the Open Cyprus Project showed that there was a level of 75% of administrative silence island-wide, in response to information requests. Over half of the respondents to this survey stated that, in practice, access to key documents is not possible.\n\nSince late 2013, a draft law on the Right to Access Public Information is being discussed in the Parliament of the (Southern) Republic of Cyprus. \n\nOn 22 December 2017 the law has finally been approved (Law number 184(I)/2017).\n\nThe right to access public information is granted by Article No. 24 of the Constitution of Northern Cyprus. Even if the Constitutional article echoes Article No. 10 of the European Convention on Human Rights (ECHR), experts say that the possibilities to restrict the fundamental right of access to public information are provided in an overbroad manner. Specifically, Article No. 10 (2) ECHR says that the conditions and restrictions imposed on the right to freedom of expression have to be “necessary in a democratic society”. Instead, even if the Constitution of Northern Cyprus- under Article No. 24- provides for a test of whether a restriction to such a right is necessary, it does not specify the key qualification of being necessary in a democratic society, as required by Article 10 of the ECHR.\n\nThe relevant laws regulating the right to access public information in the Northern part of Cyprus are: the Right to Access Information Law No. 12 of 2006; the Public Officials Law No. 7 of 1979; the State Procurement Regulation; the Rules and Procedures of the Parliament and the Personal Data Protection Act No. 89 of 2007.\n\nThe Right to Access Information Law obliges “public bodies” to process all information requests, regardless of the means by which they are submitted.\n\nA 2011 research recommends that, with regard to the Access to Information Law in the Northern part of the country, the scope of the law should be extended to all classes of information held by public bodies. Also, according to experts, an implementing regulation should be approved, clarifying the administrative procedure to request and receive information. Finally, the Access to Information Assessment Commission foreseen by the law has not been appointed yet.\n\nThe Cypriot government couldn't sign or ratify the 2009 Council of Europe Convention on Access to Official Documents as it did not have a transparency law that meets the Convention’s minimum standard. Until 2017, Cyprus was the only country in Europe, other than Luxembourg, without a law guaranteeing the right of access to information.. But as of 2018, the law has been published (Law 184(I)/2017)\n\nThe relevant laws with regard to the right to access public information are the following:\nAccording to experts, these non-specific laws that might grant access to some classes of information, such as environmental information or archives, require amendments to comply with the basic international and European standards.\n\nSince April 2014, the Republic of Cyprus has been holding public consultations aimed at drafting a Freedom of Information Law, which as to 2017 has to be enacted. In October 2015, the Cypriot Justice Minister Ionas Nicolaou expressed his commitment to adopt a strong access to information (Freedom of Information) law that will be “one of the best in the European Union”.\n\nAgain, in February 2017, the association Access Info Europe has addressed the Cypriot Parliament asking to review such a draft. In particular, Access Info Europe advocated for the removal of the fees for making information requests and for cutting down the possible 60 days extension for complex requests which has been included in the draft. Moreover, according to Access Info, also the regime of possible exceptions needs to be reviewed. Currently, the draft includes absolute exceptions, with no public interest test. Furthermore, under the international and European transparency standards, when disclosure of information is denied requesters must be given clear reasons as to why the exception has been applied.\n\nIn March 2017, the recommendations elaborated by Access Info Europe were sent to the Cypriot Parliament Legal Committee.\n\nSince March 2015, Citizen Service Centres have been established all over the island in order to provide multiple services as an alternative channel for dealing with public agencies/organizations. They work through a single 4-digit number (1434) which citizens can call in order to obtain information with respect to approximately 90 services offered by the CSCs, such as eligibility criteria for submitting an application, documents that need to be submitted, fees charged etc. Through this Call Centre, citizens can also submit applications for 18 services relating to the issuing of specific documents/licenses/certificates etc.\n\n"}
{"id": "1653", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1653", "title": "Age of consent", "text": "Age of consent\n\nThe age of consent is the age below which a minor is considered to be legally incompetent to consent to sexual acts. Consequently, an adult who engages in sexual activity with a minor younger than the age of consent cannot claim that the sexual activity was consensual, and such sexual activity may be considered statutory rape. The person below the minimum age is regarded as the victim and their sex partner is regarded as the offender, unless both are underage. The purpose of setting an age of consent is to protect an underage person from sexual advances.\n\nThe term \"age of consent\" rarely appears in legal statutes. Generally, a law will instead establish the age below which it is illegal to engage in sexual activity with that person. It has sometimes been used with other meanings, such as the age at which a person becomes competent to consent to marriage, but the meaning given above is the one now generally understood. It should not be confused with other laws regarding age minimums including, but not limited to, the age of majority, age of criminal responsibility, voting age, drinking age, and driving age.\n\nAge of consent laws vary widely from jurisdiction to jurisdiction, though most jurisdictions set the age of consent in the range 14 to 18. The laws may also vary by the type of sexual act, the gender of the participants or other considerations, such as involving a position of trust; some jurisdictions may also make allowances for minors engaged in sexual acts with each other, rather than a single age. Charges and penalties resulting from a breach of these laws may range from a misdemeanor, such as \"corruption of a minor\", to what is popularly called \"statutory rape\".\n\nThere are many \"grey areas\" in this area of law, some regarding unspecific and untried legislation, others brought about by debates regarding changing societal attitudes, and others due to conflicts between federal and state laws. These factors all make age of consent an often confusing subject, and a topic of highly charged debates.\n\n\nIn traditional societies, the age of consent for a sexual union was a matter for the family to decide, or a tribal custom. In most cases, this coincided with signs of puberty, menstruation for a woman, and pubic hair for a man. The ancient Greek poet Hesiod in \"Works and Days\" (c. 700 BC) suggests that a man should marry around the age of thirty, and that he should take a wife who is five years past puberty.\n\nReliable data for ages at marriage is scarce. In England, for example, the only reliable data in the early modern period comes from property records made after death. Not only were the records relatively rare, but not all bothered to record the participants' ages, and it seems that the more complete the records are, the more likely they are to reveal young marriages. Modern historians have sometimes shown reluctance to accept evidence of young ages of marriage, dismissing it as a 'misreading' by a later copier of the records.\n\nIn the 12th century, Gratian, the influential founder of canon law in medieval Europe, accepted the age of puberty for marriage to be around twelve for girls and around fourteen for boys but acknowledged consent to be meaningful if both children were older than seven years of age. There were authorities that said that consent could take place earlier. Marriage would then be valid as long as neither of the two parties annulled the marital agreement before reaching puberty, or if they had already consummated the marriage. Judges sometimes honored marriages based on mutual consent at ages younger than seven: in contrast to established canon, there are recorded marriages of two- and three-year-olds.\n\nThe first \"recorded\" age-of-consent law dates from 1275 in England; as part of its provisions on rape, the Statute of Westminster 1275 made it a misdemeanor to \"ravish\" a \"maiden within age,\" whether with or without her consent. The phrase \"within age\" was later interpreted by jurist Sir Edward Coke (England, 17th century) as meaning the age of marriage, which at the time was twelve years of age.\n\nThe American colonies followed the English tradition, and the law was more of a guide. For example, Mary Hathaway (Virginia, 1689) was only nine when she was married to William Williams. Sir Edward Coke \"made it clear that the marriage of girls under 12 was normal, and the age at which a girl who was a wife was eligible for a dower from her husband's estate was 9 even though her husband be only four years old.\"\n\nIn the 16th century, a small number of Italian and German states set the minimum age for sexual intercourse for girls, setting it at twelve years. Towards the end of the 18th century, other European countries also began to enact similar laws. The first French Constitution of 1791 established the minimum age at eleven years. Portugal, Spain, Denmark and the Swiss cantons initially set the minimum age at ten to twelve years.\n\nAge of consent laws were, historically, difficult to follow and enforce: legal norms based on \"age\" were not, in general, common until the 19th century, because clear proof of exact age and precise date of birth were often unavailable.\n\nIn Christian societies, sex outside marriage was forbidden. Older children were themselves often punished for being complicit in sexual interaction with an adult. Western Christianity also deemed that children were born into the original sin, and, as such, were perceived as inherently immoral. Children had very few rights and were considered the chattel of the father. From the late 18th century, and especially in the 19th century, attitudes started to change. By the mid-19th century there was increased concern over child sexual abuse.\n\nA general shift in social and legal attitudes toward issues of sex occurred during the modern era. Attitudes on the appropriate age of permission for females to engage in sexual activity drifted toward adulthood. While ages from ten to thirteen years were typically regarded as acceptable ages for sexual consent in Western countries during the mid-19th century, by the end of the 19th century changing attitudes towards sexuality and childhood resulted in the raising of the age of consent.\n\nEnglish common law had traditionally set the age of consent within the range of ten to twelve years old, but the Offences Against the Person Act 1875 raised this to thirteen in Great Britain and Ireland. Early feminists of the Social Purity movement, such as Josephine Butler and others, instrumental in securing the repeal of the Contagious Diseases Acts, began to turn towards the problem of child prostitution by the end of the 1870s. Sensational media revelations about the scourge of child prostitution in London in the 1880s then caused outrage among the respectable middle-classes, leading to pressure for the age of consent to be raised again.\n\nThe investigative journalist William Thomas Stead of the \"Pall Mall Gazette\" was pivotal in exposing the problem of child prostitution in the London underworld through a publicity stunt. In 1885 he \"purchased\" one victim, Eliza Armstrong, the thirteen-year-old daughter of a chimney sweep, for five pounds and took her to a brothel where she was drugged. He then published a series of four exposés entitled \"The Maiden Tribute of Modern Babylon\", which shocked its readers with tales of child prostitution and the abduction, procurement, and sale of young English virgins to Continental \"pleasure palaces\". The \"Maiden Tribute\" was an instant sensation with the reading public, and Victorian society was thrown into an uproar about prostitution. Fearing riots on a national scale, the Home Secretary, Sir William Harcourt, pleaded in vain with Stead to cease publication of the articles. A wide variety of reform groups held protest meetings and marched together to Hyde Park demanding that the age of consent be raised. The government was forced to propose the Criminal Law Amendment Act 1885, which raised the age of consent from thirteen to sixteen and clamped down on prostitution.\n\nIn the United States, as late as the 1880s most states set the minimum age at ten to twelve (in Delaware, it was seven in 1895). Inspired by the \"Maiden Tribute\" articles, female reformers in the U.S. initiated their own campaign, which petitioned legislators to raise the legal minimum age to at least sixteen, with the ultimate goal to raise the age to eighteen. The campaign was successful, with almost all states raising the minimum age to sixteen to eighteen years by 1920.\n\nIn France, Portugal, Denmark, the Swiss cantons and other countries, the minimum age was raised to between thirteen and sixteen years in the following decades. Though the original arguments for raising the age of consent were based on morality, since then the \"raison d'être\" of the laws has changed to child welfare and a so-called right to childhood or innocence.\n\nIn France, under the Napoleonic Code, the age of consent was set in 1832 at eleven, and was raised to thirteen in 1863. It was increased to fifteen in 1945.\n\nIn Spain, it was set in 1822 at \"puberty age\", and changed to twelve in 1870, which was kept until 1999, when it became 13; and in 2015 it was raised to 16.\n\nIn the 21st century, concerns about child sex tourism and commercial sexual exploitation of children gained international prominence, and have resulted in legislative changes in several jurisdictions, as well as in the adoption of several international instruments.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on the Protection of Children against Sexual Exploitation and Sexual Abuse (Lanzarote, 25 October 2007), and the European Union's \"Directive 2011/92/EU of the European Parliament and of the Council\" of 13 December 2011 on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography were adopted.\n\nThe Optional Protocol on the Sale of Children, Child Prostitution and Child Pornography came into force in 2002.\n\nThe Protocol to Prevent, Suppress and Punish Trafficking in Persons, especially Women and Children, which came into force in 2003, prohibits commercial sexual exploitation of children.\n\nThe Council of Europe Convention on Action against Trafficking in Human Beings (which came into force in 2008) also deals with commercial sexual exploitation of children.\n\nSeveral Western countries have raised their ages of consent recently. These include Canada (in 2008—from 14 to 16); and in Europe, Iceland (in 2007—from 14 to 15), Lithuania (in 2010—from 14 to 16), Croatia (in 2013—from 14 to 15), and Spain (in 2015—from 13 to 16).\n\nThe International Criminal Court Statute does not provide a specific age of consent in its rape/sexual violence statute, but makes reference to sexual acts committed against persons \"incapable of giving genuine consent\"; and the explicative footnote states, \"It is understood that a person may be incapable of giving genuine consent if affected by natural, induced or \"age-related incapacity\".\" (see note 51)\n\nSexual relations with a person under the age of consent is a crime in most countries, exceptions to this include, Yemen, and Saudi Arabia. Jurisdictions use a variety of terms for the offense, including \"child sexual abuse\", \"statutory rape\", \"illegal carnal knowledge\", \"corruption of a minor\", besides others.\n\nThe enforcement practices of age-of-consent laws vary depending on the social sensibilities of the particular culture (see above). Often, enforcement is not exercised to the letter of the law, with legal action being taken only when a sufficiently socially-unacceptable age gap exists between the two individuals, or if the perpetrator is in a position of power over the minor (e.g. a teacher, minister, or doctor). The sex of each participant can also influence perceptions of an individual's guilt and therefore enforcement.\n\nThe threshold age for engaging in sexual activity varies between jurisdictions (see above). Most jurisdictions have set a fixed age of consent. However, some jurisdictions permit sex with a person after the onset of their puberty, such as Yemen, but only in marriage. Ages can also vary based on the type of calendar used, such as the Lunar calendar, how birth dates in leap years are handled, or even the method by which birth date is calculated.\n\nThe age of consent is a legal barrier to the minor's ability to consent and therefore obtaining consent is not in general a defense to having sexual relations with a person under the prescribed age, for example:\n\n\nA growing number of countries have specific extraterritorial legislation that prosecutes their citizens in their homeland should they engage in illicit sexual conduct in a foreign country with children. In 2008, ECPAT reported that 44 countries had extraterritorial child sex legislation. For example, PROTECT Act of 2003, a federal United States law bans sexual activity by its citizens with foreigners or with U.S. citizens from another state, if the partner is under 18 and the activity is illegal under the federal, state, or local law. This applies in cases where any of the partners travels into or out of the United States, or from one state into another, for the purpose of an illegal sexual encounter.\n\nThere is debate as to whether the gender of those involved should lead to different treatment of the sexual encounter, in law or in practice. Traditionally, age of consent laws regarding vaginal intercourse were often meant to protect the chastity of unmarried girls. Many feminists and social campaigners in the 1970s have objected to the social importance of virginity, and have also attempted to change the stereotypes of female passivity and male aggression; demanding that the law protect children from exploitation regardless of their gender, rather than dealing with concerns of chastity. This has led to gender-neutral laws in many jurisdictions. On the other hand, there is an opposing view which argues that the act of vaginal intercourse is an \"unequal act\" for males and females, due to issues such as pregnancy, increased risk of STDs, and risk of physical injury if the girl is too young and not physically ready. In the US, in \"Michael M. v. Superior Ct.450 U.S. 464 (1981)\" it was ruled that the double standard of offering more legal protection to girls is valid because \"the Equal Protection Clause does not mean that the physiological differences between men and women must be disregarded\".\n\nTraditionally, many age of consent laws dealt primarily with men engaging in sexual acts with underage girls and boys (the latter acts often falling under sodomy and buggery laws). This means that in some legal systems, issues of women having sexual contact with underage partners were rarely acknowledged. For example, until 2000, in the UK, before the Sexual Offences (Amendment) Act 2000, there was no statutory age of consent for lesbian sex. In New Zealand, before 2005, there were no age of consent laws dealing with women having sex with underage boys. Previously, in Fiji, male offenders of child sexual abuse could receive up to life imprisonment, whilst female offenders would receive up to seven years. Situations like these have been attributed to societal views on traditional gender roles, and to constructs of male sexuality and female sexuality; according to E Martellozzo, \"[V]iewing females as perpetrators of sexual abuse goes against every stereotype that society has of women: women as mothers and caregivers and not as people who abuse and harm\". Alissa Nutting argues that women are not acknowledged as perpetrators of sex crimes because society does not accept that women have an autonomous sexuality of their own.\n\nThe age at which a person can be legally married can differ from the age of consent. In jurisdictions where the marriageable age is lower than the age of consent, those laws usually override the age of consent laws in the case of a married couple where one or both partners are below the age of consent. Some jurisdictions prohibit all sex outside of marriage irrespective of age, as in the case of Yemen.\n\nIn many countries, there are specific laws dealing with child prostitution.\n\nIn some countries, states, or other jurisdictions, the age of consent may be lower than the age at which a person can appear in pornographic images and films. In many jurisdictions, the minimum age for participation and even viewing such material is 18. As such, in some jurisdictions, films and images showing individuals under the age of 18, but above the age of consent, that meet the legal definition of child pornography are prohibited despite the fact that the sexual acts depicted are legal to engage in otherwise under that jurisdiction's age of consent laws. In those cases, it is only the filming of the sex act that is the crime as the act itself would not be considered a sex crime. For example, in the United States under federal law it is a crime to film minors below 18 in sexual acts, even in states where the age of consent is below 18. In those states, charges such as child pornography can be used to prosecute someone having sex with a minor, who could not be otherwise be prosecuted for statutory rape, provided they filmed or photographed the act.\n\nJailbait images can be differentiated from child pornography, as they do not feature minors before the onset of puberty, nor do they contain nudity. The images are, however, usually sexualized, often featuring tween or young teen girls in bikinis, skirts, underwear or lingerie. Whether or not these images are legal is debated. When questioned regarding their legality legal analyst Jeffrey Toobin stated he thought it was not illegal, though legal expert Sunny Hostin was more skeptical, describing jailbait images as \"borderline\" child pornography which may be illegal.\n\nThe human immune system continues to develop after puberty. The age of exposure has an influence upon if the immune system can fend off infections in general, and this is also true in the case of some sexually transmitted diseases. For example, a risk factor for HPV strains causing genital warts is sexual debut at a young age; if this extends to the cancer causing strains, then sexual debut at a young age would potentially also increase risk of persistence of HPV infections that cause the very HPV induced cancers that are being diagnosed in spiking numbers of relatively young people.\n\nAge-of-consent reform refers to the efforts of some individuals or groups, for different reasons, to alter or abolish age-of-consent laws. These efforts advocate five main positions:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1919281", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1919281", "title": "Angostura bitters", "text": "Angostura bitters\n\nAngostura bitters () is a concentrated bitters (herbal alcoholic preparation) based on gentian, herbs and spices, by House of Angostura in Trinidad and Tobago. It is typically used for flavouring beverages or, less often, food. The bitters were first produced in the town of Angostura (now Ciudad Bolívar, Venezuela), hence the name, but do not contain angostura bark. The bottle is easily recognisable by its distinctive oversized label. 'Angostura' is Spanish for 'narrowing', the town of Angostura having been located at the first narrowing of the Orinoco River.\n\nThe recipe was developed as a tonic by a German, (1796–1870), surgeon general in Simón Bolívar's army in Venezuela. Siegert began to sell it in 1824 and established a distillery for the purpose in 1830. Siegert was based in the town of Angostura and used locally available ingredients, perhaps aided by botanical knowledge of the local Amerindians. The product was sold abroad from 1853, and in 1875 the plant was moved from Ciudad Bolivar to Port of Spain, Trinidad, where it remains. Angostura won a medal at the Weltausstellung 1873 Wien. The medal is still depicted on the oversized label, along with reverse which shows Emperor Franz Joseph I of Austria in profile.\n\nThe exact formula is a closely guarded secret, with only one person knowing the whole recipe, passed hereditarily.\n\nAngostura bitters are extremely concentrated and may be an acquired taste; though 44.7% alcohol by volume, bitters are not normally ingested undiluted, but instead are used in small amounts as flavouring.\n\nAngostura bitters are a key ingredient in many cocktails. Originally used to help with upset stomachs of the soldiers in Simón Bolívar's army, it later became popular in soda water and was usually served with gin. The mix stuck in the form of a pink gin, and is also used in many other alcoholic cocktails such as long vodka, consisting of vodka, Angostura bitters, and lemonade. In the United States, it is best known for its use in whiskey cocktails: the Old Fashioned, made with whiskey, bitters, sugar, and water, and the Manhattan, made usually with rye whiskey and sweet vermouth. In a Pisco Sour a few drops are sprinkled on top of the foam, both for aroma and decoration. In a Champagne Cocktail a few drops of bitters are added to a sugar cube.\n\nIn Hong Kong, Angostura bitters are included in the local Gunner cocktail. Though not in the classic recipe, bartenders sometimes add more flavour to the Mojito cocktail by sprinkling a few drops of Angostura bitters on top. Bitters can also be used in \"soft\" drinks; a common drink served in Australian and New Zealand pubs is lemon lime and bitters. In Malawi, bitters are added to a mix of crushed ice, ginger ale and Sprite to make a 'rock shandy'.\n\nAngostura bitters are an essential ingredient. along with Earl Grey tea, tabasco sauce and green chillies, in the popular North London cocktail, the Flaming Hilary. \n\n\"Angostura Bitters Drink Guide\", a promotional booklet of 1908, was reprinted in 2008 with a new introduction by Ross Bolton.\n\nAmong certain bartending communities (especially in Malaysia) shots of Angostura are taken as the 'bartender's handshake' either during or after the shift is done.\n\nThe largest purveyor of Angostura bitters in the world is Nelsen's Hall Bitters Pub on Washington Island off the northeast tip of Door Peninsula in Door County, Wisconsin. The pub began selling shots of bitters as a \"stomach tonic for medicinal purposes\" under a pharmaceutical license during Prohibition in the United States. The practice, which helped the pub to become the oldest continuously-operating tavern in Wisconsin, remained a tradition after the repeal of Prohibition. As of 2018, the pub hosts a Bitters Club, incorporates bitters into food menu items, and sells upwards of 10,000 shots per year.\n\nAngostura bitters are alleged to have restorative properties. It was reported to be a remedy for hiccups, and is thought to be a cure for diarrhoea.\n\nAngostura bitters is often incorrectly believed to have poisonous qualities because it is associated with angostura bark (although it does not actually contain any), which, although not toxic, during its use as a medicine was often adulterated by unscrupulous sellers, who padded out the sacks of bark with cheaper, poisonous \"Strychnos nux-vomica\" or copalchi bark.\n\nSince 2007, Angostura has also produced Angostura Orange, an orange bitters.\n\nThere was a shortage of Angostura bitters in 2009; the company reported that this was caused primarily by a problem in their supply of bottles. There were incorrect rumours of a product recall, or that production of the bitters had stopped at the plant in Trinidad. The shortage was the subject of many news articles and blogs, particularly in the cocktail industry.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "58329080", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58329080", "title": "Arun Ferreira", "text": "Arun Ferreira\n\nArun Ferreira is a political activist in India. He was arrested in 2007 for alleged links to the Indian Naxalite movement and spent five years in prison before he was acquitted in 2012. He began a career as a criminal lawyer defending political prisoners. He was arrested again in August 2018 and is currently under house arrest.\n\nFerreira’s career and interests in social activism were strongly influenced by his close relationship with his family, specifically his uncle, Father Faymond D’Silva, who was also a liberation theologist. As a member of the All-India Catholic University Students’ Association, he began to explore the strong social sinfulness of the millions of impoverished people and why there is so much poverty while at the same time india is abundant in resources. D’Silva taught many Catholic youths about the strong social imbalances between the wealthy, and the impoverished. Ferreira was raised hearing about the unequal distribution of resources and the rich who always remained in control.\nFerreira’s attended St Xaviers College in early 1990’s and as a student, he took a large part in an organization called Cheshire home, assisting in reading to blind children and orphans.. Arun also became interested in liberation theology, and then grew to express his thoughts about liberation overpowering theology, and soon adopted a more radical view of politics and the rights that human beings should be given and graduated in 1993 from St. Xavier.\nAfter graduating, Ferreira worked in favor of the slum-dwellers and squatters of Mumbai, where he became involved in helping slum rehabilitation at Dindoshi where he worked for the relocation of slums from Colaba to Goregaon. \n\nFerreira attended St Xaviers College in Mumbai. During his time there, he was known to aid the annual blood donation drive by sketching caricatures for those who donated blood.\n\nFrom 2014 to 2016, he attended Siddharth Law College and received his degree in law.\n\nAs reported by the Chandrapur superintendent of police, Cherring Dorje, Ferreira used to run a government banned organisation named Vidyarthi Pragati Sangathana in Mumbai. The Vidyarthi Pragati Sanghatana is a student organisation that took many struggles and campaigns for the rights of students and other oppressed sections. With his VPS comrades, Arun Ferreira hoped to transform a class- and caste-ridden country into a more just and equitable one. He was a big part of the organisation’s decision-making process, fighting for the democratisation of student councils in the various colleges, cultivating student-worker and student-peasant solidarity, the latter, buttressed by its “go-to-the-village”campaigns.\n\nHe moved to Chandrapur in 2001 until 2006 when along with Arun Bhelke, he started the Deshbhakti Yuva Manch to recruit more youths for the banned outfit, Communist Party of India (Maoist). Arun was horrified at the brutal killings of four members of a dalit family on September 29, 2006 in Khairlanji village (Bhandara district) and the police and government’s attempt at a coverup. Arun was active in the post-Khairlanji protests — the protesters’ endeavour was to hasten the emergence of an uncompromising leadership among the dalits, and to find support for the dalit cause among the underprivileged kunbis, marathas and “other backward classes”. He was also organising students in Chandrapur, some of whom (of the Deshbakth Yuva Sanghatan) have since been persecuted by the police.\n\nHe was arrested in his late 30’s on May 8, 2007 under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act (UAPA) on charges of sedition and spent four years and eight months at the Nagpur jail. Here he began to draw and these sketches marked the beginning of Ferreira’s book Colours of the Cage (Aleph).The book depicts the torture and misery Ferreira and other inmates go through behind bars. Ferreira does not hold back in his descriptions of the atrocities he and other inmates were forced to endure. Here is an excerpt; “To make me more amenable to their demands, they stretched out my body completely, using an updated version of the medieval torture technique of drawing (though there was no quartering). My arms were tied to a window grille high above the ground while two policemen stood on my outstretched thighs to keep me pinned to the floor.” Colours of the Cage stands as a testimony to the urgent need of justice within the justice system of India. Journalist Lindsay Perreira is among the few that openly praise this memoir. She writes, “Ferreira takes us into a world of blatant violations of justice, in India’s dark corners, untouched by the unrelenting glare of TV cameras. It’s where time appears to have stopped, where torture is encouraged, corruption is endemic and helplessness is taken for granted.”\n\nIn 2008, Arun Ferreira took to a hunger strike along with other imprisoned activists. Over the course of his sentence, Arun Ferreira had 11 cases filed against him under the UAPA and the Arms Act. In 2010, Prime Minister Manmohan Singh declared that Maoists were “India’s greatest internal security threat”.\n\nAfter his acquittal in 2011, Ferreira completed his degree from Siddharth Law College and began working as a lawyer in December 2016. He then became a part of the ‘Indian Association of People’s Lawyers’ and the ‘Committee for Protection of Democratic Rights’. IAPL was created to gather lawyers involved in the legal support of collective struggles for people’s rights and in situations of gross rights violations. The main objective of the CPDR has been to educate people on their democratic rights as provided in the Constitution of India and struggle against violation of civil rights by the state as well as civil society elements. Arun Ferreira carried out social work with an NGO, Naujawan Bharat Sabha, which was a left-wing Indian association that sought to foment revolution against the British Raj, (the rule by the British Crown in the Indian subcontinent), by gathering together worker and peasant youths. This social work was deemed “covert Naxalite activity” which was cause for more charges. Arun works to protect rights of minorities and is critical of the Indian Prime Minister, Narendra Modi. Arun stated in a 2015 interview that there has been in increase in attacks on Christians and Muslims since Modi came to power. He believes the government is responsible for anti-minority propaganda and stirring feelings of hate towards minorities.\n\nFerreira was arrested under the Unlawful Activities (Prevention) Act, and imprisoned in 2007. He spent four years and eight months in Nagpur jail as a political under trial. He was kept in solitary confinement. During this time, he took up cartooning again. All of his charges were dropped in September 2011 only for him to be arrested again in 2012. He was released on 4 January 2012 with the dropping of all his charges. His lawyer at the time was Surendra Gadling.\n\nOn his release, he published a book on his experiences in prison, titled Colours of the Cage. In his book, he detailed his own experiences of torture and solitude, the life of prisoners, and the policies that govern them. In his memoir, he recounted many instances of the harsh nature of the Nagpur jail and the harsh questioning tactics used by the police. While Ferreira was being questioned, not only was he interrogated by the local Nagpur police, he was questions by officers from the Anti-Naxal cell he was placed in along with the Anti-Terrorism Squad, the Intelligence Bureau and even the Special Intelligence Bureau of Andhra Pradesh. He was interrogated for ten days. After all preliminary interrogation techniques failed, he was transported to a Hospital where the government authorized sodium pentothal to be used for Ferreira’s narco-analysis where he was questioned while under the influence of the drug. This ensured that the forensic scientists and psychologists could get true answers about Ferreira’s background as an activist. While in jail, the Nagpur Police continued to carry out searches in Ferreira’s residence and spread the news that he was a high-ranking leader of the banned Communist Party of India and he was responsible for spreading violence around the country. Ferreira denies any news about spreading violence and harming citizens. On 29 January 2014, he was acquitted of all charges .\n\nIn August 2018, Ferreira was again arrested for connections to organizing “Elgaar Parishad”, an event that marks the 200th year of the Battle of Bhima Koregaon on January 1, 2018. The Battle of Bhima Koregaon is controversial in India with right-wing groups claiming that it was a battle between British and Indian rulers and left-wing groups maintaining that the battle was a victory against caste-based oppression. The event was violent and allegedly, the police had uncovered a letter that included plans to assassinate the Prime Minister. \nCurrently, Ferreira is under house arrest with policeman posted in his complex after the Supreme Court intervened in the arrest. His arrest was part of a multi-city operation by the Pune Police, in which they also arrested Sudha Bharadwaj, Varavara Rao, Vernon Gonsalves and Gautam Navlakha, and raided the residences of Anand Teltumbde, Stan Swamy and K. Satyanarayana.\n"}
{"id": "9290442", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=9290442", "title": "Beneficial use", "text": "Beneficial use\n\n\"Beneficial use\" is a legal term describing a person's right to enjoy the benefits of specific property, especially a view or access to light, air, or water, even though title to that property is held by another person. This may also be termed \"beneficial enjoyment\".\n\nCompare this with a \"beneficial interest\", where a beneficiary has an interest in a thing (\"res\"), such as a trust or estate, but does not own the underlying property. This usually entitles the beneficiary to some of the income from the underlying property.\n\nAlso, compare this to beneficial owner where specific property rights (\"use and title\") in equity belong to a person even though legal title of the property belongs to another person. For example, companies often hold stocks or bank funds in their name for the benefit of a person.\n"}
{"id": "5290732", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5290732", "title": "Butlerage", "text": "Butlerage\n\nA butlerage was a duty of two shillings on every ton of wine imported into England by merchant strangers; so called because it was paid to the king's butler for the king. The tax was first implemented in 1302 and stopped being levied in 1809.\n\n"}
{"id": "24777574", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24777574", "title": "Butterfield v Forrester", "text": "Butterfield v Forrester\n\nButterfield v. Forrester, 11 East. 60, 103 Eng. Rep. 926 (K.B. 1809), was an English case before the King's Bench that was the first appearance of contributory negligence as a common law defence against negligence.\n\nForrester (D) placed a pole against the road next to his house in the course of making repairs to the house. Butterfield (P) was riding at a high speed at approximately 8 pm at twilight and did not see the pole. He struck the pole and suffered personal injuries when he fell off his horse. \nA witness testified that visibility was 100 yards away at the time of the accident and Butterfield might have seen and avoided the pole had he not been riding at such a high speed. There was no evidence that Butterfield had been intoxicated at the time of the accident.\nAt trial, the judge instructed the jury that if an individual riding with reasonable care could have avoided the pole, and if the jury found that Butterfield had not used reasonable care, the verdict should be in Forrester's favour. The jury returned a verdict for Forrester and Butterfield appealed.\n\nThe court determined that the plaintiff had failed to use common and ordinary caution, and he was therefore barred from recovery.\n"}
{"id": "7969494", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7969494", "title": "Cost segregation study", "text": "Cost segregation study\n\nUnder United States tax laws and accounting rules, cost segregation is the process of identifying personal property assets that are grouped with real property assets, and separating out personal assets for tax reporting purposes. According to the American Society of Cost Segregation Professionals, a cost segregation is \"the process of identifying property components that are considered \"personal property\" or \"land improvements\" under the federal tax code.\"\n\nA cost segregation study identifies and reclassifies personal property assets to shorten the depreciation time for taxation purposes, which reduces current income tax obligations. Personal property assets include a building’s non-structural elements, exterior land improvements and indirect construction costs.The primary goal of a cost segregation study is to identify all construction-related costs that can be depreciated over a shorter tax life (typically 5, 7 and 15 years) than the building (39 years for non-residential real property).Personal property assets found in a cost segregation study generally include items that are affixed to the building but do not relate to the overall operation and maintenance of the building.\n\nLand Improvements generally include items located outside a building that are affixed to the land and do not relate to the overall operation and maintenance of a building. Reducing tax lives results in accelerated depreciation deductions, a reduced tax liability,and increased cash flow.\n\nA Cost Segregation study allows a taxpayer who owns real estate to reclassify certain assets as Section 1245 property with shorter useful lives for depreciation purposes, rather than the useful life for Section 1250 property.\n\nAnalysis of capital expenditures is used to determine appropriate asset classifications. Cost segregation identifies building costs that would typically be depreciated over a 27.5 or 39-year period and reclassifies them to permit a shorter, accelerated method of depreciation for certain building costs. Costs for non-structural elements, such as wall covering, carpet, accent lighting, portions of the electrical system, and exterior site improvements such as sidewalks and landscaping, can often be depreciated over five, seven or 15 years, rather than over 27.5 or 39 years.\n\nReal property eligible for cost segregation includes buildings that have been purchased, constructed, expanded or remodeled since 1987. A formal engineering based study is typically cost-effective for buildings purchased or remodeled at a cost greater than $750,000. A cost segregation study is most efficient for new buildings recently constructed, but it can also uncover retroactive tax deductions for older buildings which can generate significant short benefits due to \"catch-up\" depreciation.\n\n\"A cost-segregation specialist can perform a nonintrusive yet detailed engineering study of a building's walls, flooring, and ceilings; and its plumbing, electrical, lighting,\ntelecommunications, heating and cooling systems\" (Money Doesn't Grow on Trees, But It Could be Hidden in the Walls By William J. Barnes, CPA). \n\nUsually, a construction engineer will analyze architectural drawings, mechanical and electrical plans, and other blueprints to segregate the structural and general building electrical and mechanical components from those linked to personal property. The study also allocates “soft costs,” such as architect and engineering fees, to all components of the building.\n\n\"In general, a study by a construction engineer is more reliable than one conducted by someone with no engineering or construction background. However, the possession of specific construction knowledge is not the only criterion. Experience in cost estimating and allocation, as well as knowledge of the applicable law, are other important criteria. A quality study identifies the preparer and always references his/her credentials, experience and expertise in the cost segregation area\" (www.irs.gov - Cost Segregation Audit Technique Guide - Chapter 4 - Principal Elements of a Quality Cost Segregation Study and Report).\n\nIn addition to providing lower taxes, cost segregation can benefit businesses in a number of ways:\n\nDownsides to cost segregation studies include cost, the triggering of depreciation recapture and understatement penalties for taxpayers that use cost segregation too aggressively.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "51048632", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51048632", "title": "Criminal Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China", "text": "Criminal Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China\n\nThe Criminal Procedure Law of the People's Republic of China (CPL) is a procedural statute in China intended to ensure the correct implementation of the Criminal Law. The CPL defines how trials are to be conducted, what rights suspects of crimes have to defend themselves, the role and scope of the activities of defense lawyers, and the entire process of the administration of justice through the courts in China.\n\nChina's CPL has been criticized as offering inadequate protections for those suspects of crimes by Chinese police. Lawyers have called for the CPL to be amended to demand that criminal defense lawyers be present during interrogations by police, as well as video and audio recordings being made mandatory. Both these measures would prevent the torture and other abuse in custody widely employed to gain confessions.\n\nThe CPL is also often not enforced, and ignoring it rarely results in penalties administered by the procuratorate or other supervisory organs. There are multiple documented cases of the procuratorate and public security bureau ignoring the CPL and instead taking direction from the political-legal committees at various levels.\n"}
{"id": "23005165", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23005165", "title": "Deliberative process privilege", "text": "Deliberative process privilege\n\nDeliberative process privilege is the common-law principle that the internal processes of the executive branch of a government are immune from normal disclosure or discovery in civil litigations, Freedom of Information Act requests, etc.\n\nThe theory behind the protection is that by guaranteeing confidentiality, the government will receive better or more candid advice, recommendations and opinions, resulting in better decisions for society as a whole. The deliberative process privilege is often in dynamic tension with the principle of maximal transparency in government.\n\nIn the context of the U.S. presidential offices and their workproducts, this principle is often referred to as executive privilege, or as a type of executive privilege that is distinct from \"presidential communications privilege\".\n\n"}
{"id": "2944387", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2944387", "title": "Eurocodes", "text": "Eurocodes\n\nThe eurocodes are the ten European standards (EN; harmonised technical rules) specifying how structural design should be conducted within the European Union (EU). These were developed by the European Committee for Standardisation upon the request of the European Commission.\n\nThe purpose of the eurocodes is to provide:\n\nBy March 2010 the Eurocodes are mandatory for the specification of European public works and are intended to become the de facto standard for the private sector. The Eurocodes therefore replace the existing national building codes published by national standard bodies (e.g. BS 5950), although many countries had a period of co-existence. Additionally, each country is expected to issue a National Annex to the Eurocodes which will need referencing for a particular country (e.g. The UK National Annex). At present take up of Eurocodes is slow on private sector projects and existing national codes are still widely used by engineers.\n\nIn 1975, the Commission of the European Community (presently the European Commission), decided on an action programme in the field of construction, based on article 95 of the Treaty. The objective of the programme was to eliminate technical obstacles to trade and the harmonisation of technical specifications. Within this action programme, the Commission took the initiative to establish a set of harmonised technical\nrules for the design of construction works which, in a first would serve as an alternative to the national rules in force in the member states of the European Union (EU) and, ultimately, would replace them. For fifteen years, the Commission, with the help of a steering committee with representatives of the member states, conducted the development of the Eurocodes programme, which led to the first generation of European codes in the 1980s.\n\nIn 1989, the Commission and the member states of the EU and the European Free Trade Association (EFTA) decided, on the basis of an agreement between the Commission and to transfer the preparation and the publication of the Eurocodes to the European Committee for Standardization (CEN) through a series of mandates, in order to provide them with a future status of European Standard (EN). This links de facto the Eurocodes with the provisions of all the Council's Directives and/or Commission's Decisions dealing with European standards (e.g. the Council Directive 89/1 06/EEC on construction products - CPD and Council Directives 93/37/EEC, 921S0lEEC and 89/440lEEC on public works and services and equiva1ent EFTA Directives initiated in pursuit of setting up the internal market).\n\nThe eurocodes are published as a separate \"European Standards\", each having a number of parts. By 2002, ten sections have been \ndeveloped and published:\nEach of the codes (except EN 1990) is divided into a number of Parts covering specific aspects of the subject. In total there are 58 EN Eurocode parts distributed in the ten Eurocodes (EN 1990 – 1999).\n\nAll of the EN Eurocodes relating to materials have a Part 1-1 which covers the design of buildings and other civil engineering structures and a Part 1-2 for fire design. The codes for concrete, steel, composite steel and concrete, and timber structures and earthquake resistance have a Part 2 covering design of bridges. These Parts 2 should be used in combination with the appropriate general Parts (Parts 1).\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10263", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10263", "title": "Executive (government)", "text": "Executive (government)\n\nThe executive is the organ exercising authority in and holding responsibility for the governance of a state. The executive executes and enforces law.\n\nIn political systems based on the principle of separation of powers, authority is distributed among several branches (executive, legislative, judicial)—an attempt to prevent the concentration of power in the hands of a small group of people. In such a system, the executive does not pass laws (the role of the legislature) or interpret them (the role of the judiciary). Instead, the executive enforces the law as written by the legislature and interpreted by the judiciary. The executive can be the source of certain types of law, such as a decree or executive order. Executive bureaucracies are commonly the source of regulations.\n\nIn the Westminster political system, the principle of separation of powers is not as entrenched. Members of the executive, called ministers, are also members of the legislature, and hence play an important part in both the writing and enforcing of law.\n\nIn this context, the executive consists of a leader(s) of an office or multiple offices. Specifically, the top leadership roles of the executive branch may include:\n\nIn a presidential system, the leader of the executive is both the \"head of state and head of government\". In a parliamentary system, a cabinet minister responsible to the legislature is the head of government, while the head of state is usually a largely ceremonial monarch or president.\n\n"}
{"id": "23950504", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23950504", "title": "Faeq al-Mir arrest controversy", "text": "Faeq al-Mir arrest controversy\n\nThe Faeq al-Mir arrest controversy refers to the arrest, imprisonment, and calls for release of Faeq al-Mir, leader of the Syrian People’s Democratic Party, after he telephoned Elias Atallah, a Lebanese politician critical of Syrian policies there. In the call, taped by Syrian Intelligence forces, al-Mir gave condolences to Atallah regarding the assassination of Pierre Gemayel, Lebanon's Minister of Industry. Al-Mir was detained by Syrian security forces at his home in Latakia on December 13, 2006, and charged in March 2007 with \"undertaking acts that weaken national sentiment during times of conflict\" and \"communicating with a foreign country to incite it to initiate aggression against Syria or to provide it with the means to do so.\" On December 31, 2007, Damascus's First Criminal Court ruled him guilty of \"circulating false or exaggerated news which would weaken the morale of the nation\" and sentenced him to three years in prison, though the duration was immediately reduced to 18 months. Human rights groups, including Human Rights Watch and Amnesty International, criticized the arrest and demanded al-Mir's unconditional release.\n\nHaving worked together for communist organizations in the mid-1980s, Faeq al-Mir and Elias Atallah boasted a close relationship at the time of the arrest. Al-Mir, a human rights activist, led the left-wing People’s Democratic Party, an unauthorized party critical of the Syrian government. Atallah was the leader and sole parliamentarian of the Democratic Left Movement, a leftist Lebanese party. He was also a senior figure in the March 14 Alliance, a Lebanese parliamentary coalition critical of Syrian policies. The two conversed over the phone several times prior to the arrest. They often lamented the assassinations of anti-Syrian Lebanese figures like Samir Kassir. Al-Mir, who was released from a previous ten-year prison sentence related to political activism in 1999, visited Lebanon in 2006 to mourn the killing of George Hawi, a former leader of the Lebanese Communist Party. According to Amnesty International and Human Rights Watch, this contributed to al-Mir's arrest at the end of the year.\n\nWhile the Syrian constitution liberally grants free speech, a state of emergency in effect since the Baath Party seized power suspends this freedom. Syria has stringently approached dissidents who question its policies in neighboring Lebanon; Syrian authorities detained and imprisoned ten activists who signed the Beirut-Damascus Declaration petition in May 2006. The petition, of which al-Mir was a signatory, advocated the withdrawal of Syrian troops from Lebanon and the normalization of relations between the two countries. \nIn a December 2006 phone call, al-Mir bestowed his condolences to Atallah regarding the November 21 assassination of Pierre Gemayel, Lebanon's Minister of Industry and an anti-Syrian politician. The call was taped by Syrian intelligence forces, known as the Mukhabarat.\n\nOn December 13, 2006, Syrian security forces arrested al-Mir at his home in Latakia on Syria's western coast, and he has remained in detention since.\n\nIn March 2007, Syrian authorities charged al-Mir with \"undertaking acts that weaken national sentiment\" during times of conflict and \"communicating with a foreign country to incite it to initiate aggression against Syria or to provide it with the means to do so.\" The second charge bears a life sentence and could entail the death penalty if the foreign nation initiates aggression against Syria.\n\nAl-Mir's trial began before the Damascus First Criminal Court on August 29, 2007. His indictment stated he \"contacted enemies of the state in Lebanon including members of the March 14 group, and he knows that the ideas and direction of this group are in accordance with the American and Zionist direction which are against the national approach of the Syrian government.\" It accused al-Mir of conveying \"support for the approach and direction of March 14\" during the phone call. Al-Mir denied this, stating that he called Atallah only as head of the Democratic Left Movement. On November 8, the court adjourned his trial, postponing the verdict until November 28 as a result of the defense filing a petition to dismiss the judge in session.\n\nOn December 31, 2007, the Damascus First Criminal Court ruled al-Mir guilty of \"circulating false or exaggerated news which would weaken the morale of the nation\". In accordance with an amnesty provision, the court dropped the charge of “circulating knowingly false or exaggerated news abroad, which would harm the State or its financial standing\". He was sentenced to three years in prison, though the duration was immediately commuted to one and a half years. The court elected to consider al-Mir's detention before the trial as part of his prison term.\n\nDeeming the charges against him \"politically motivated\", Human Rights Watch called for al-Mir's immediate release. The organization included his arrest in the Syrian section of its 2008 World Report, a human rights assessment. Amnesty International judged al-Mir a \"prisoner of conscience\" and called for \"his immediate and unconditional release.\" Atallah — speaking to NOW Lebanon, a Lebanese newspaper — praised al-Mir's human-rights activism and commented \"arresting someone for a phone call is unheard of... every free and democratic Lebanese citizen is in solidarity with [Mir] and his comrades, and they demand that he is set free along with all the political prisoners in Syria.”\n\nAccording to NOW Lebanon, al-Mir's indictment implied that \"any support for March 14 – the ruling parliamentary majority in Lebanon – is tantamount to treason,\" a precedent that was \"portentous for the future of Lebanese-Syrian relations or for the revitalization of democracy inside of Syria.\" In a letter smuggled out of Adra Prison and published by a Lebanese newspaper, al-Mir and five other imprisoned activists denounced the \"repressive climate\" in their country and wrote \"Our situation as prisoners of conscience is part ... of the crisis of public freedoms and human rights in Syria, which started with the state of emergency imposed 44 years ago.\"\n\nAl-Mir was released from prison on July 13, 2008 after spending a year and a half in prison.\n\nFaeq al-Mir became actively involved in the Syrian uprising (2011–present) right from the beginning. As a result, he went into hiding in Ghouta near Damascus to avoid arrest by the security agencies of the Syrian government. However, on Monday October 7, 2013, he was arrested during a visit to the city of Damascus.\n\nFaeq al-Mir is known among supporters of the Syrian opposition with the title \"al-e'mem\" (Levantine Arabic: العميم, meaning \"the uncle\") in recognition for his lifelong political activism against the dictatorship of Al-Assad family in Syria.\n\n"}
{"id": "5641913", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5641913", "title": "Free warren", "text": "Free warren\n\nFree warren—often simply \"warren\"—refers to a type of franchise or privilege conveyed by a sovereign in medieval England to an English subject, promising to hold them harmless for killing game of certain species within a stipulated area, usually a wood or small forest. The sovereign involved might be either the monarch or a marcher lord.\n\nThe grant of free warren could be as a gift, or in exchange for consideration, and might be later alienated by the grantee. The stipulated area might be coextensive with the frank-tenement of the grantee, or it might be discontinuous or even at a considerable remove from the grantee's holdings. The right of free warren did not extend automatically to the freeholder of the soil.\n\nAlthough the rights of free warren are usually discussed in the context of forest law, the only law which applied within the warren was common law. Thus, even though the warrant ultimately derived from the sovereign, the only statutes applied to poachers in a warren were the common-law crimes of theft and trespass.\n\nThe privilege of free warren was a reciprocal relationship. The grantee of the warren was granted an exemption from the law (under which all game in the realm was property of the sovereign), but the grantee owed the sovereign the stewardship and protection of the game from all others who might wish to hunt it.\n\nModern English \"warren\" ← ME \"warrene\", \"warreine\" ← ONF \"warrenne\" ← Germanic present participle of *\"warian\" \"to take care; to cause to care (for)\" ← causative of *\"waran\" \"to care\" ← \"*war\" \"care\". Doublet of \"guarantor\". Related to OHG \"werien\" (i.e. \"*wärian\") \"to defend, protect\", and also to English \"a-ware, wary\".\nThe original use of \"free warren\" was as a legal term. However, as the franchise defined both a set of species and a geographic extent, the natural semantic extensions arose, namely for the individual animals as a group, or for the land they inhabited. As it became pragmatically necessary for freeholders not holding a free warren to enclose their breeding establishments, these \"closed warrens\" or domestic warrens began also to be designated simply as \"warrens\" (use recorded in 1378; OED). In 1649 the metaphoric use as \"cluster of densely populated living spaces\" is recorded.\n\nThe Mediaeval Latin form of the word \"warenna\" was used in legal documents such as Magna Carta. In addition, the office of warden is used for the overseer of a warren:\n\n(5) But the warden, as long as he hath the custody of the lands, shall keep up and maintain the houses, parks, warrens, ponds, mills, and other things belonging to them, our of their issues;\n\nThe warden of a Royal forest was often the castellan or constable of the nearest royal castle; over time the less exalted title of \"warrener\" evolved for the custodian of the lowest of the hunting franchises, the warren.\n\nThe adjective \"free\" in \"free warren\" does not refer to the lack of enclosure surrounding the precincts of the warren, but rather to the fact the \"liberty\" of hunting derives from a warrant of the sovereign. That is,\nThe term \"warrant\" occurs very early in constitutional documents: it is found in the Assize of Clarendon and the Assize of the Forest, both in the reign of Henry II., but in neither case in its modern meaning. The original meaning seems to have been more akin to guarantee (q.v.), warranty or security; and to some extent the term implies something in the nature of a guarantee or representation by the person issuing the warrant that the person who acts on it can do so without incurring any legal penalty.\nAll of the terms \"warrant\", \"warrantor\", and \"warranty\" are used in Henry II of England's Assize of the Forest (a.k.a. Assize of Woodstock) in 1184:\n\nThe permission to take game was limited to certain types of animals. Generally, the killing of vermin (defined as predators and other beasts not fit for the table) was not regulated. This definition was flexible, however, depending on whether the animal was thought to provide good sport, as wolves, foxes, badgers, or bears. In practice, vermin could only be killed on the commons or waste, since none but the grantee was permitted to have instruments of the hunt within the warren.\n\nThe most cited authority on Forest Law, John Manwood, cites these beasts of warren:\n\n\"The beasts and fouls of Warren are these, The Hare, the Cony, the Pheasant, and the Partridge, and none other are accompted beasts or fouls of Warren.\"\nHowever, Manwood is mistaken in his assignments, since the roe deer was transferred to \"beast of warren\" from \"beast of the forest\" in the fourteenth century. Roe deer are still found within woodlands named \"Warren\" in contemporary England. The 1911 Encyclopedia adds roe, woodcock, quail, and rail to Manwood's list. On the other hand, grouse are not birds of warren. Fox, wolf, cat, badger, and squirrel are sometimes also added.\n\nSometimes domestic swine are mistakenly thought to be beasts of warren, due the right of pannage.\n\n"}
{"id": "40950660", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40950660", "title": "Handshake deal", "text": "Handshake deal\n\nA handshake deal is a verbal commitment to a transaction. For the deal or agreement to become binding, one must witness the deal take place; have a follow up email or some form of communication to the other party; have any correspondence or other documentation that could be used as \"evidence\" in court or other legal needs; and/or begin to perform to the agreements in the deal.\n\nExample 1:\n\nExample 2:\n\nExample 3:\n\n"}
{"id": "48790532", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=48790532", "title": "Hexamolybdenum", "text": "Hexamolybdenum\n\nHexamolybdenum, is a molybdenum dominant alloy discovered during a nanomineralogy investigation of the Allende meteorite. Hexamolybdenum was discovered in a small ultrarefractory inclusion within the Allende meteorite. This inclusion has been named ACM-1. Hexamolybdenum is hexagonal, with a calculated density of 11.90 g/cm. The new mineral was found along with allendeite. These minerals, are believed to demonstrate conditions during the early stages of the Solar System, as is the case with many CV3 carbonaceous chondrites such as the Allende meteorite. Hexamolybdenum lies on a continuum of high-temperature alloys that are found in meteorites and allows a link between osmium, ruthenium, and iron rich meteoritic alloys. The name hexamolybdenum refers to the crystal symmetry (primitive hexagonal) and the molybdenum rich composition. The Allende meteorite fell in 1969 near Pueblito de Allende, Chihuahua, Mexico.\n\nHexamolybdenum was found as nano-crystals in an ultrarefractory inclusion in the Allende meteorite. The Allende meteorite has shown to be full of new minerals, after nearly forty years it has produced one in ten of the now known minerals in meteorites. This CV3 carbonaceous chondrite was the largest ever recovered on earth and is referred to as the best-studied meteorite in history.\nThe inclusion has only been viewed via electron microscopy. The hexamolybdenum specimen was lost during an attempted ion probe analysis of a bordering grain. Other specimens can be found, however, in the Smithsonian Institution's National Museum of Natural History Allende section USNM 3509HC12 and in section USNM 7590 of NWA 1934, another VC3 chondrite.\n\nIt has also been reported from the NWA 1934 CV3 carbonaceous chondrite meteorite from the Erfoud region of Morocco and in the Danubian placer of Straubing, Bavaria.\n\nHexamolybdenum is an (molybdenum, ruthenium, iron, iridium, osmium) alloy.\n\nColor, streak, luster, hardness, tenacity, cleavage, fracture, density, and refractive index could not be observed because the grain size was too small and the section bearing the mineral was optically thick.\n\n"}
{"id": "37618099", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=37618099", "title": "Hot Art", "text": "Hot Art\n\nHot Art: Chasing Thieves and Detectives through the Secret World of Stolen Art is a non-fiction book, written by Canadian writer Joshua Knelman, first published in September 2011 by Douglas & McIntyre. In the book, the author chronicles his four-year investigation into the world of international art theft. Knelman traveled from Cairo to New York, London, Montreal, and Los Angeles compiling his book; which has been called \"A major work of investigative journalism\", and \"a globetrotting mystery filled with cunning and eccentric characters.\"\n\n\"Hot Art\" received the 2012 \"Arthur Ellis Award\" for \"Best Crime Nonfiction\". The book also received the 2012 \"Edna Staebler Award for Creative Non-Fiction\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "6680356", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6680356", "title": "Informal wear", "text": "Informal wear\n\nInformal wear, also called business/corporate/office wear, tenue de ville and (colloquially) dress clothes, is a Western dress code for clothing typified by a suit with necktie for men, and cocktail dress or pant suit for women. On the scale of formality, it is considered less formal than semi-formal but more formal than casual wear, yet retaining availability for more personal expression than semi-formal dress.\n\nThus, informal should not be confused with casual wear such as business casual or smart casual despite that in loose common usage, some people may refer to informal dress as \"formal\" in contrast with merely casual. The technical, traditional definition of \"informal\" is used in this article.\n\nThe informal attire is most commonly used for business events and meetings, job interviews, or in professions like law and finance. It is a traditional dress code that aims to indicate respect to the situation and not draw attention.\n\nThe suit originated in the 19th-century as a leisurewear. Seeking a casual alternative to the long, heavy frock coats then considered appropriate business dress, men began to wear lighter coats cut just below the waist when not engaged in business.\n\nStandard suit-making fabric is fine combed wool, with the inclusion of cashmere in more expensive fabrics. Middle-price suits are often made of wool-polyester blends, whilst the cheapest are made entirely of polyester fabric.\n\nThis business suit (also known as the \"sack suit\" in North America, commonly by Brooks Brothers) became the standard business daywear for all men who were not engaged in physical labor. The waistcoat (British) or vest (American) was worn regularly with the suit up to World War II, but is rarely seen today, due to central heating in offices and the expense of construction. Until at least the early 1960s it was common to wear a hat.\n\nIn general, business suits are characterized by three styles and a fourth fusion style. English suits are noted for having a \"touch fit\" to the wearer's body shape and carefully made padded shoulders. Italian suits are often slimmer, with higher armholes and highly shaped to complement a slim physique. Traditional American suits have lightly padded shoulders and loose natural fit with minimal shaping. Since the 1960s, designer brands (especially Polo Ralph Lauren) have created fusion style that brings a more shaped European look to the natural American cut.\n\nSuits in Britain were often made in tweed, often with three pieces, and were worn outside the City of London. Tweed is made from uncombed wool, and, like all fabrics from the time, was thick and durable (18oz. was considered medium-weight in the Edwardian era). A full tweed suit is less common today, with just tweed sports jackets more often worn, but is still used generally as everyday wear by some, and for outdoor sports such as shooting and angling. It is worn with appropriate accompanying clothes, much as any other suit; brown full brogues and wool ties are common items not worn with other types of suit.\n\nInformal attire for men consists of a lounge suit, made up of a jacket with matching trousers. The suit is typically dark-coloured (without a pattern or with a subtle one): gray, dark blue, brown, or black. The suit is worn with a long-sleeved shirt, usually in white or light blue color, leather dress shoes in black or brown color and a conservative necktie.\n\nInformal attire is today considered a form of dress customarily appropriate for all formal settings, which do not explicitly require white tie or black tie. For instance, it is commonly worn to religious services and funerals, in government offices and schools. Some professions, like law or finance, may require it. At present, informal attire is the typical dress at daytime weddings in the United States, serving as a replacement for the increasingly rare morning dress.\n\nAs \"dress clothes\", the term is considered a secular version of \"Sunday clothes\" or \"church clothes\", which signifies clothes worn by some Christians to church services.\n\nBecause of its strong association with the business world, informal attire is also known as \"international standard business dress, business professional\" or \"business formal\".\n\n\n\nThese are usually worn for:\n\nIn the United States, wearing a suit to work daily is often an indication of managerial or professional status. However, when on a job interview or attending business meetings, many men who do not otherwise wear suits will dutifully wear them as a mark of respect and formality. Many how-to books for men recommend wearing a conservatively styled suit to an employment interview even when the man does not expect to ever wear a suit on the job.\n\nIn the 1990s, Internet businesses flourished and so did the relaxed dress standards enjoyed by unconventional dot-com businesspeople. A new form of attire had arisen, business casual, which consists of nice trousers, often chinos or khakis, and a polo shirt or short-sleeved shirt. Today this is acceptable and common attire at technically oriented business meetings and in semiprofessional settings, and is continuing to gain ground over traditional business attire.\n\nThe standard for women is also in flux. In the 1970s, women aspiring to managerial or professional status were advised to \"dress for success\" by wearing clothing that imitated the male business suit: jacket and matching skirt, worn with a plain blouse and discreet accessories. The plain blouse is designated as a long sleeve button down shirt tucked properly into the skirt at the waist. Some women wore pantsuits, substituting pants for the skirt, but in doing so, they risked the displeasure of many who felt that women should not wear pants.\n\nNow even conservative Western workplaces are more accepting of pants on female employees. However, they may still expect female employees to exhibit the formality of men's suits. Women in \"creative\" professions, such as advertising, web design, or fashion, can usually dress with more color and flair.\n\nMale business attire is also nuanced. Choice of clothing and accessories proclaims social and financial status. An inexpensive ready-to-wear suit will lack the cachet of a bespoke suit fashioned by a famous tailor. Custom shirts, hand-made leather shoes, fine cuff links and expensive watches may indicate wealth, and in certain professions may effectively amount to a \"dress code\" (e.g., in investment banking).\n\nWestern business wear is standard in many workplaces around the globe, even in countries where the usual daily wear may be a distinctive national clothing.\n\nSome non-Western business-people will wear national clothing nonetheless. A Saudi Arabian sheikh may wear the traditional robes and headdress to an international conference; United Arab Emirates diplomats in particular are noted for attending conventions of the United Nations General Assembly in full keffiyeh and thawb. Diplomats of the People's Republic of China are similarly noted for wearing the Mao suit to international events; Indian leaders often wear Nehru jackets, with Manmohan Singh wearing a suit-like combination including such a jacket with his Sikh turban. Wearing national clothing in such contexts can proclaim national pride, or just extremely high status which allows the wearer to defy convention. Sometimes an element of the national attire such as a hat is combined with a Western business suit; for instance, Yasser Arafat was noted for wearing the aforementioned kaffiyeh with a Western-style military uniform, a derivative of the suit.\n\nThe aloha shirt, while considered casual attire in the mainland United States, is considered acceptable business wear in Hawaii, where it is well-suited to that state's warm and humid climate. Similarly, \"Kariyushi style\" attire is encouraged in Japan, especially southern locales of Japan, to allow more comfort in the workplace, and to encourage dress that conforms with Cool Biz guidelines. Akihiko Higa, a researcher of Kaiho Soken who has worked on a Kariyushi style project for an Okinawan clothing manufacturer, said, “It (the Kariyushi shirt) is easy-to-wear and highly functional for wearing either in an office situation or in a resort.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "49390756", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49390756", "title": "Irish Takeover Panel", "text": "Irish Takeover Panel\n\nThe Irish Takeover Panel is the statutory body responsible for monitoring and supervising takeovers and other relevant transactions in relevant companies in Ireland. It was established by the Irish Takeover Panel Act 1997. The Panel is designated as the competent Irish authority for the purpose of the Takeover Directive 2004/25/EC. It is incorporated as a company limited by guarantee. It makes Annual Reports to the Minister for Jobs, Enterprise and Innovation.\n\nThe Members of the Panel are representative of bodies professionally involved in the securities markets and in the field of takeovers: the Consultative Committee of Accountancy Bodies – Ireland, the Law Society of Ireland, the Irish Association of Investment Managers, Irish Clearing House Limited (nominated by the Irish Banking Federation and the Irish Stock Exchange plc. Each of these bodies appoints a Director to the Board of the Panel, and may also appoint alternate Directors. The Governor of the Central Bank of Ireland appoints the Chairperson and Deputy Chairperson to the Board, currently Denis McDonald S.C. (Chairperson) and Ann Fitzgerald (Deputy Chairperson). No lay members are appointed, or representatives of consumer or other groups. It therefore appears to be part of a system of self-regulation.\n\nThe Chairperson of the Panel is appointed by the Governor of the Central Bank of Ireland.\n"}
{"id": "8590242", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8590242", "title": "John J. Cound", "text": "John J. Cound\n\nJohn \"Jack\" James Cound (born February 7, 1928), is an American legal scholar, an expert in civil procedure. For 35 years he was a professor at the University of Minnesota Law School, where he taught admiralty, civil procedure, complex litigation, conflict of laws, evidence, federal courts, and professional responsibility.\n\nCound received his B.A. degree from George Washington University. He earned an LL.B. degree from Harvard Law School, where he graduated magna cum laude, and was Note Editor of the Harvard Law Review. Upon completion of his LL.B. degree, Cound clerked for Judge Learned Hand of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second Circuit. He then served as an attorney for the Appellate Section of the Civil Division of the United States Department of Justice. The first case that Cound helped handle at the Department of Justice was \"Brown v. Board of Education\".\n\nCound joined the faculty of the University of Minnesota Law School in 1956. He was a Visiting Professor at the UCLA Law School, University of North Carolina School of Law, University of Texas School of Law, University of Georgia School of Law, University of Kentucky College of Law, Washington University School of Law, Hamline University School of Law, and the University of Kiel in Kiel, Germany. He also served on the faculty of the Association of American Law Schools Orientation Program in American Law.\n\nCound i published important academic works over the course of his career. These include: Civil Procedure: Cases and Materials (1st ed. 1968 & Supp. 1968, 2d ed. 1974, 3d ed. 1980, 4th ed. 1985) (with Jack H. Friedenthal & Arthur R. Miller); Civil Procedure Supplement (1968, 1970, 1972, 1974, 1976, 1978, 1980, 1982, 1984, 1985) (with Jack H. Friedenthal & Arthur R. Miller), Minnesota Jury Instruction Guides, Criminal (1977) (reporter), Pleading, Joinder, and Discovery: Cases and Materials (1968) (with Jack H. Friedenthal & Arthur R. Miller).\n\nCound resides in St. Paul, Minnesota, with his wife Jeanne.\n\n"}
{"id": "538782", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=538782", "title": "Joint venture", "text": "Joint venture\n\nA joint venture (JV) is a business entity created by two or more parties, generally characterized by shared ownership, shared returns and risks, and shared governance. Companies typically pursue joint ventures for one of four reasons: to access a new market, particularly emerging markets; to gain scale efficiencies by combining assets and operations; to share risk for major investments or projects; or to access skills and capabilities.\n\nAccording to Gerard Baynham of Water Street Partners, there has been a lot of negative press about joint ventures, but objective data indicate that they may actually outperform wholly owned and controlled affiliates. He writes, \"A different narrative emerged from our recent analysis of U.S. Department of Commerce (DOC) data, collected from more than 20,000 entities. According to the DOC data, foreign joint ventures of U.S. companies realized a 5.5 percent average return on assets (ROA), while those companies’ wholly owned and controlled affiliates (the vast majority of which are wholly owned) realized a slightly lower 5.2 percent ROA. The same story holds true for investments by foreign companies in the U.S., but the difference is more pronounced. U.S.-based joint ventures realized a 2.2 percent average ROA, while wholly owned and controlled affiliates in the U.S. only realized a 0.7 percent ROA.\"\n\nMost joint ventures are incorporated, although some, as in the oil and gas industry, are \"unincorporated\" joint ventures that mimic a corporate entity. With individuals, when two or more persons come together to form a temporary partnership for the purpose of carrying out a particular project, such partnership can also be called a joint venture where the parties are \"co-venturers\".\n\nThe venture can be a business JV (for example, Dow Corning), a project/asset JV intended to pursue one specific project only, or a JV aimed at defining standards or serving as an \"industry utility\" that provides a narrow set of services to industry participants.\n\nSome major joint ventures include MillerCoors, Sony Ericsson, Vevo, Hulu, Penske Truck Leasing, and Owens-Corning - and in the past, Dow Corning.\n\nIn European law, the term \"joint venture\" (or joint undertaking) is an elusive legal concept, better defined under the rules of company law. In France, the term \"joint venture\" is variously translated \" \"association d'entreprises\", \"entreprise conjointe\", \"coentreprise\" \"or\" \"entreprise commune\".\"\n\nA JV can be brought about in the following major ways:\n\n\nIn the UK, India, and in many Common Law countries a joint-venture (or else a company formed by a group of individuals) must file with the appropriate authority the Memorandum of Association. It is a statutory document which informs the outside public of its existence. It may be viewed by the public at the office in which it is filed. A sample can be seen at wikimedia.org. Together with the Articles of Association, it forms the \"constitution\" of a company in these countries.\n\nThe Articles of Association regulate the interaction between shareholders and the directors of a company and can be a lengthy document of up to 700,000+\npages. It deals with the powers relegated by the stockholders to the directors and those withheld by them, requiring the passing of ordinary resolutions, special resolutions and the holding of Extraordinary General Meetings to bring the directors' decision to bear.\n\nA Certificate of Incorporation or the Articles of Incorporation is a document required to form a corporation in the U.S. (in actuality, the state where it is incorporated) and in countries following the practice. In the US, the \"constitution\" is a single document. The Articles of Incorporation is again a regulation of the directors by the stock-holders in a company.\n\nBy its formation the JV becomes a new entity with the implication:\n\n\nOn the receipt of the Certificate of Incorporation a company can commence its business.\n\nThis is a legal area and is fraught with difficulty as the laws of countries differ, particularly on the enforceability of \"heads of\" or shareholder agreements. For some legal reasons it may be called a Memorandum of Understanding. It is done in parallel with other activities in forming a JV. Though dealt with briefly for a shareholders' agreement, some issues must be dealt with here as a preamble to the discussion that follows. There are also many issues which are not in the Articles when a company starts up or never ever present. Also, a JV may elect to stay as a JV alone in a \"quasi partnership\" to avoid any nonessential disclosure to the government or the public.\n\nSome of the issues in a shareholders' agreement are:\n\n\nThere are many features which have to be incorporated into the shareholders' agreement which is quite private to the parties as they start off. Normally, it requires no submission to any authority.\n\nThe other basic document which must be articulated is the Articles, which is a published document and known to members. This repeats the shareholders agreement as to the number of directors each founder can appoint to the board of directors; whether the board controls or the founders; the taking of decisions by simple majority (50%+1) of those present or a 51% or 75% majority with all directors present (their alternates/proxy); the deployment of funds of the firm; extent of debt; the proportion of profit that can be declared as dividends; etc. Also significant is what will happen if the firm is dissolved, if one of the partners dies, or if the firm is sold.\n\nOften the most successful JVs are those with 50:50 partnership with each party having the same number of directors but rotating control over the firm, or rights to appoint the Chairperson and Vice-chair of the company. Sometimes a party may give a separate trusted person to vote in its place proxy vote of the Founder at board meetings.\n\nRecently, in a major case the Indian Supreme Court has held that Memorandums of Understanding (whose details are not in the Articles of Association) are \"unconstitutional\" giving more transparency to undertakings.\n\nThe JV is not a permanent structure. It can be dissolved when:\n\n\nAccording to a report of the United Nations Conference on Trade and Development 2003, China was the recipient of US$53.5 billion in direct foreign investment, making it the world's largest recipient of direct foreign investment for the first time, to exceed the USA. Also, it approved the establishment of nearly 500,000 foreign-investment enterprises. The US had 45,000 projects (by 2004) with an in-place investment of over 48 billion.\n\nUntil recently, no guidelines existed on how foreign investment was to be handled due to the restrictive nature of China toward foreign investors. Following the death of Mao Zedong in 1976, initiatives in foreign trade began to be applied, and law applicable to foreign direct investment was made clear in 1979, while the first Sino-foreign equity venture took place in 2001. The corpus of the law has improved since then.\n\nCompanies with foreign partners can carry out manufacturing and sales operations in China and can sell through their own sales network. Foreign-Sino companies have export rights which are not available to wholly Chinese companies, as China desires to import foreign technology by encouraging JVs and the latest technologies.\n\nUnder Chinese law, foreign enterprises are divided into several basic categories. Of these, five will be described or mentioned here: three relate to industry and services and two as vehicles for foreign investment.\nThose five categories of Chinese foreign enterprises are: the Sino-Foreign Equity Joint Ventures (EJVs), Sino-Foreign Co-operative Joint Ventures (CJVs), Wholly Foreign-Owned Enterprises (WFOE), although they do not strictly belong to Joint Ventures, plus foreign investment companies limited by shares (FICLBS), and Investment Companies through Foreign Investors (ICFI). Each category is described below.\n\nThe EJV Law is between a Chinese partner and a foreign company. It is incorporated in both Chinese (official) and in English (with equal validity), with limited liability. Prior to China's entry into WTO – and thus the WFOEs – EJVs predominated. In the EJV mode, the partners share profits, losses and risk in equal proportion to their respective contributions to the venture's registered capital. These escalate upwardly in the same proportion as the increase in registered capital.\n\nThe JV contract accompanied by the Articles of Association for the EJV are the two most fundamental legal documents of the project. The Articles mirror many of the provisions of the JV contract. In case of conflict the JV document has precedence. These documents are prepared at the same time as the feasibility report. There are also the ancillary documents (termed \"offsets\" in the US) covering know-how and trademarks and supply-of-equipment agreements.\n\nThe minimum equity is prescribed for investment (truncated),\nwhere the foreign equity and debt levels are:\n\nThere are also intermediary levels.\n\nThe foreign investment in the total project must be at least 25%. No minimum investment is set for the Chinese partner. The timing of investments must be mentioned in the Agreement and failure to invest in the indicated time, draws a penalty.\n\nCo-operative Joint Ventures (CJVs) are permitted under the Sino-Foreign Co-operative Joint Ventures. Co-operative enterprises are also called Contractual Operative Enterprises.\n\nThe CJVs may have a limited structure or unlimited – therefore, there are two versions. The limited-liability version is similar to the EJVs in status of permissions - the foreign investor provides the majority of funds and technology and the Chinese party provides land, buildings, equipment, etc. However, there are no minimum limits on the foreign partner which allows him to be a minority shareholder.\n\nThe other format of the CJV is similar to a partnership where the parties jointly incur unlimited liability for the debts of the enterprise with no separate legal person being created. In both the cases, the status of the formed enterprise is that of a legal Chinese person which can hire labor directly as, for example, a Chinese national contactor. The minimum of the capital is registered at various levels of investment.\n\nOther differences from the EJV are to be noted:\n\n\nConvenience and flexibility are the characteristics of this type of investment. It is therefore easier to find co-operative partners and to reach an agreement.\n\nWith changes in the law, it becomes possible to merge with a Chinese company for a quick start. A foreign investor does not need to set up a new corporation in China. Instead, the investor uses the Chinese partner's business license, under a contractual arrangement. Under the CJV, however, the land stays in the possession of the Chinese partner.\n\nThere is another advantage: the percentage of the CJV owned by each partner can change throughout the JV's life, giving the option to the foreign investor, by holding higher equity, obtains a faster rate of return with the concurrent wish of the Chinese partner of a later larger role of maintaining long-term control.\n\nThe parties in any of the ventures, EJV, CJV or WFOE prepare a feasibility study outlined above. It is a non-binding document - the parties are still free to choose not to proceed with the project. The feasibility study must cover the fundamental technical and commercial aspects of the project, before the parties can proceed to formalize the necessary legal documentation. The study should contain details referred to earlier under Feasibility Study (submissions by the Chinese partner).\n\nThere is basic law of the PRC concerning enterprises with sole foreign investment controls, WFOEs. China's entry into the World Trade Organization (WTO) around 2001 has had profound effects on foreign investment. Not being a JV, they are considered here only in comparison or contrast.\n\nTo implement WTO commitments, China publishes from time to time updated versions of its \"Catalogs Investments\" (affecting ventures) prohibited, restricted.\n\nThe WFOE is a Chinese legal person and has to obey all Chinese laws. As such, it is allowed to enter into contracts with appropriate government authorities to acquire land use rights, rent buildings, and receive utility services. In this it is more similar to a CJV than an EJV.\n\nWFOEs are expected by PRC to use the most modern technologies and to export at least 50% of their production, with all of the investment is to be wholly provided by the foreign investor and the enterprise is within his total control.\n\nWFOEs are typically limited liability enterprises (like with EJVs) but the liability of the Directors, Managers, Advisers, and Suppliers depends on the rules which govern the Departments or Ministries which control product liability, worker safety or environmental protection.\n\nAn advantage the WFOE enjoys over its alternates is enhanced protection of its know-how but a principal disadvantage is absence of an interested and influential Chinese party.\nAs of the 3rd Quarter 2004 WFOEs had replaced EJVs and CJVs as follows:\n(*)=Financial Ventures by EJVs/CJVs\n(**)=Approved JVs\n\nThese enterprises are formed under the Sino-Foreign Investment Act. The capital is composed of value of stock in exchange for the value of the property given to the enterprise. The liability of the shareholders, including debt, is equal to the number of shares purchased by each partner.\n\nThe registered capital of the company the share of the paid-in capital. The minimum amount of the registered capital of the company should be RMB 30 million. These companies can be listed on the only two PRC Stock Exchanges – the Shanghai and Shenzhen Stock Exchanges. Shares of two types are permitted on these Exchanges – Types \"A\" and Type \"B\" shares.\n\nType A are only to be used by Chinese nationals and can be traded only in RMB. Type \"B\" shares are denominated in Remembi but can be traded in foreign exchange and by Chinese nationals having foreign exchange. Further, State enterprises which have been approved for corporatization can trade in Hong Kong in \"H\" share and in NYSE exchanges.\n\n\"A\" shares are issued to and traded by Chinese nationals. They are issued and traded in Renminbi. \"B\" shares are denominated in Renminbi but are traded in foreign currency. From March 2001, in addition to foreign investors, Chinese nationals with foreign currency can also trade \"B\" shares.\n\nInvestment Companies are those established in China by sole foreign-funded business or jointly with Chinese partners who engage in direct investment. It has to be incorporated as a company with limited liability.\n\nThe total amount of the investor's assets during the year preceding the application to do business in China has to be no less than US $400 million within the territory of China. The paid-in capital contribution has to exceed $10 million. Furthermore, more than 3 project proposals of the investor's intended investment projects must have been approved. The shares subscribed and held by foreign Investment Companies by Foreign Investors (ICFI) should be 25%. The investment firm can be established as an EJV\n\nJV companies are the preferred form of corporate investment but there are no separate laws for joint ventures. Companies which are incorporated in India are treated on par as domestic companies.\n\n\nPrivate companies (only about $2500 is the lower limit of capital, no upper limit) are allowed in India together with and public companies, limited or not, likewise with partnerships. sole proprietorship too are allowed. However, the latter are reserved for NRIs.\n\nThrough capital market operations foreign companies can transact on the two exchanges without prior permission of RBI but they cannot own more than 10 percent equity in paid-up capital of Indian enterprises, while aggregate foreign institutional investment (FII) in an enterprise is capped at 24 percent.\n\nThe establishment of wholly owned subsidiaries (WOS) and project offices and branch offices, incorporated in India or not. Sometimes, it is understood, that branches are started to test the market and get its flavor. Equity transfer from residents to non-residents in mergers and acquisitions (M&A) is usually permitted under the automatic route. However, if the M&As are in sectors and activities requiring prior government permission (Appendix 1 of the Policy) then transfer can proceed only after permission.\n\nJoint ventures with trading companies are allowed together with imports of secondhand plants and machinery.\n\nIt is expected that in a JV, the foreign partner supplies technical collaboration and the pricing includes the foreign exchange component, while the Indian partner makes available the factory or building site and locally made machinery and product parts. Many JVs are formed as public limited companies (LLCs) because of the advantages of limited liability.\n\nIn Ukraine most of joint ventures are operated in the form of Limited liability company, as there is no legal entity form as Joint venture. Protection of the rights of foreign investors is guaranteed by Law of Ukraine \"On Foreign Investment\". In Ukraine, JV can be established without legal entity formation and act under so called Cooperation Agreement (Dogovir pro spilnu diyalnist; Ukr. Договір про спільну діяльність). Under Ukraine civil code, CA can be established by two or more parties; rights and obligations of the parties are regulated by the agreement. Cooperation agreement has been widely spread in Ukraine, mainly in the field of oil and gas production.\n\n"}
{"id": "6200598", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6200598", "title": "Law and Society Association", "text": "Law and Society Association\n\nThe Law and Society Association (LSA), founded in 1964, is a group of scholars from many fields and countries who share a common interest in the place of law in social, political, economic and cultural life. It is one of the leading professional associations for those interested in the sociology of law.\n\nMembers bring expertise in law, sociology, political science, psychology, anthropology, economics, history, and geography as well as in other related areas to the study of sociolegal phenomena.\nAmong its activities, the Association publishes the \"Law & Society Review\", sponsors annual conferences and educational workshops, and fosters the development of academic programs in law and society around the world. \n\nThe LSA's executive office is located in the University of Utah.\n\n2007: Berlin, Germany (July 25–28)\n2008: Montreal, Quebec (May 29-June 1)\n2009: Denver, Colorado (May 28–31)\n2010: Chicago, Illinois (May 27–30)\n2011: San Francisco, California (June 2–5)\n2012: Honolulu, Hawaii (June 5–8)\n2013: Boston, Massachusetts (May 30-June 2)\n2014: Minneapolis, Minnesota (May 29 - June 1)\n2015: Seattle, Washington (May 28 - 31)\n\n2016: New Orleans, Louisiana (June 2-5)\n\n2017: Mexico City, Mexico (June 20-23) \n\n2018: Toronto, Canada (June 7-10)\n\n"}
{"id": "51495354", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=51495354", "title": "List of housing statutes", "text": "List of housing statutes\n\nLegal scholars and practitioners generally discuss laws that affect housing within the context of real property, landlord–tenant law, mortgage law, laws that forbid housing discrimination, laws that attempt to preserve affordable housing, etc.\n\nThe following is a list of housing-related statutes:\n\n\"Note: This section is proposed to be deleted per talk page discussion.\"\n\n"}
{"id": "195941", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=195941", "title": "Lord Edward FitzGerald", "text": "Lord Edward FitzGerald\n\nLord Edward FitzGerald (15 October 1763 – 4 June 1798) was an Irish aristocrat and revolutionary who died of wounds received while resisting arrest on a charge of treason.\n\nFitzGerald, the fifth son of the 1st Duke of Leinster and the Lady Emily Lennox the daughter of Charles Lennox, 2nd Duke of Richmond, was born at Carton House, near Dublin. In 1773 his father died and his mother soon afterwards married William Ogilvie, who superintended FitzGerald's education. He spent most of his childhood in Frescati House at Blackrock in Dublin where he was tutored by Ogilvie in a manner chiefly directed to the acquisition of knowledge that would fit him for a military career.\n\nFitzGerald joined the British Army in 1779 and he was Aide-de-camp on the staff of Lord Rawdon in the southern theatre of the American Revolutionary War. He was seriously wounded at the Battle of Eutaw Springs on 8 September 1781, his life being saved by an escaped slave named Tony Small (nicknamed \"Faithful Tony\", see Black Loyalist). FitzGerald commissioned a portrait of Tony Small by John Roberts in 1786. Lord Edward freed Small and employed him to the end of his life. FitzGerald was evacuated from Charleston, South Carolina in 1782 when the British forces abandoned the city. Webb surmises that the success of the American colonists in fighting against regular troops, led him in later years to the conviction that his countrymen in Ireland could cope with them with a similar result.\n\nIn 1783 FitzGerald visited the West Indies before returning to Ireland, where his brother, the 2nd Duke of Leinster, had procured Edward's election to the Irish Parliament as a Member for Athy, a seat he held until 1790. In Parliament he acted with the small Opposition Irish Patriot Party group led by Henry Grattan, but took no prominent part in debate. In the spring of 1786 he took the then unusual step for a young nobleman of entering the Military College, Woolwich, after which he made a tour through Spain in 1787. Dejected by unrequited love for his cousin Georgina Lennox (who later married the 3rd Earl Bathurst), he sailed for New Brunswick to join the 54th Regiment with the rank of Major.\n\nIn April 1789, guided by compass, he traversed the country with a brother officer, from Fredericton, New Brunswick to Quebec, falling in with Indians by the way, with whom he fraternized. He accomplished the journey of 175 miles in twenty-six days, and established a shorter practicable route than that hitherto followed.\n\nIn a subsequent expedition he was formally adopted at Detroit by the Bear clan of the Kanien'kehá:ka (Mohawk) with the name \"Eghnidal\" by Karonghyontye (Captain David Hill), and made his way down the Mississippi to New Orleans, whence he returned to England.\n\nFinding that his brother had procured his election for the County of Kildare (a seat he held from 1790 to 1798), and desiring to maintain political independence, Lord Edward refused the command of an expedition against Cadiz offered him by Pitt, and devoted himself for the next few years to the pleasures of society and to his parliamentary duties. He was on terms of intimacy with his first cousin Charles Fox, with Richard Sheridan and other leading Whigs. According to Thomas Moore, Lord Edward FitzGerald was the only one of the numerous suitors of Sheridan's first wife, Elizabeth whose attentions were received with favour; and it is certain that, whatever may have been its limits, a warm mutual affection subsisted between the two. She conceived a child by him, a baby girl who was born on 30 March 1792.\n\nHis Whig connections, together with his transatlantic experiences, predisposed Fitzgerald to sympathize with the doctrines of the French Revolution, which he embraced enthusiastically when he visited Paris in October 1792. He lodged with Thomas Paine and listened to the debates in the Convention. At a convivial gathering on the 18 November, he supported a toast to \"the speedy abolition of all hereditary titles and feudal distinctions\", and gave proof of his zeal by expressly repudiating his own title, a performance for which he was dismissed from the army.\n\nWhile in Paris, FitzGerald became enamoured of a young girl whom he chanced to see at the theatre, and who is said to have had a striking likeness to Elizabeth Sheridan. Procuring an introduction he discovered her to be a protégée of Stéphanie Félicité, comtesse de Genlis (Madame de Sillery), Governess to the Children of France. The parentage of the girl, whose name was Pamela (1773–1831), is uncertain; but although there is some evidence to support the story of Madame de Genlis that Pamela was born in Newfoundland of parents called Sims, the common belief that she was the daughter of Madame de Genlis herself by Louis Philippe II, Duke of Orléans (to whose children she was then acting as governess), was probably well founded. On 27 December 1792, FitzGerald and Pamela were married at Tournai, one of the witnesses being Louis Philippe, afterwards King of the French; and in January 1793 the couple reached Dublin.\n\nIreland was by then seething with dissent which was finding a focus in the increasingly popular and revolutionary Society of the United Irishmen, which had been forced underground by the outbreak of war between France and Britain in 1793. Lord Edward FitzGerald, fresh from the gallery of the Convention in Paris, returned to his seat in the Irish Parliament and immediately sprang to their defence. Within a week of his return he was ordered into custody and required to apologise at the bar of the House of Commons for violently denouncing in the House a Government proclamation which Grattan had approved. However, it was not until 1796 that he joined the United Irishmen, who by now had given up as hopeless the path of constitutional reform and whose aim, after the recall of Lord FitzWilliam in 1795, was nothing less than the establishment of an independent Irish republic.\n\nIn May 1796 Theobald Wolfe Tone was in Paris endeavouring to obtain French assistance for an insurrection in Ireland. In the same month, FitzGerald and his friend Arthur O'Connor proceeded to Hamburg, where they opened negotiations with the Directory through Reinhard, French minister to the Hanseatic towns. The Duke of York, meeting Pamela at Devonshire House on her way through London with her husband, had told her that \"all was known\" about his plans, and advised her to persuade him not to go abroad. Also, in Hamburg Lord Edward met with Johan Anders Jägerhorn (or baron de Spurila, as he called himself), a Finnish Swede who had advocated Finnish autonomy and now acted as an intermediary between Lord Edward and the French.\n\nThe proceedings of the conspirators at Hamburg were made known to the government in London by an informer, Samuel Turner. Pamela was entrusted with all her husband's secrets and took an active part in furthering his designs. She appears to have fully deserved the confidence placed in her, though there is reason to suppose that at times she counselled prudence. The result of the Hamburg negotiations was Hoche's abortive expedition to Bantry Bay in December 1796.\n\nIn September 1797 the Government learnt from the informer Leonard McNally that Lord Edward was among those directing the conspiracy of the United Irishmen, which was now quickly maturing. He was specially concerned with the military organisation, in which he held the post of colonel of the Kildare regiment and head of the military committee. He had papers showing that men were ready to rise. They possessed some arms, but the supply was insufficient, and the leaders were hoping for a French invasion to make good the deficiency and to give support to a popular uprising. But French help proving dilatory and uncertain, the rebel leaders in Ireland were divided in opinion as to the expediency of taking the field without waiting for foreign aid. Lord Edward was among the advocates of the bolder course and there is some evidence that he favoured a project for the massacre of the Irish peers while in procession to the House of Lords for the trial of Lord Kingston in May 1798.\n\nIt was probably abhorrence of such measures that converted Thomas Reynolds from a conspirator to an informer; at all events, by him and several others the authorities were kept posted in what was going on, though lack of evidence produced in court delayed the arrest of the ringleaders. But on the 12 March 1798 Reynolds' information led to the seizure of a number of conspirators at the house of Oliver Bond. Lord Edward FitzGerald, warned by Reynolds, was not among them.\n\nAs a fellow member of the Ascendancy class, the Government were anxious to make an exception for FitzGerald, avoiding the embarrassing and dangerous consequences of his subversive activities. They communicated their willingness to spare him from the normal fate meted out to traitors. The Lord Chancellor, Lord Clare, said to a member of his family, \"For God's sake get this young man out of the country; the ports shall be thrown open, and no hindrance whatever offered\".\n\nFitzGerald however refused to desert others who could not escape, and whom he had himself led into danger. On 30 March the government proclamation of martial law authorising the military to act as they saw fit to crush the United Irishmen led to a campaign of vicious brutality in several parts of the country. This forced the United Irish executive to bring forward plans for the rising, with or without French aid.\n\nLord Edward FitzGerald's social position made him the most important United Irish leader still at liberty. On 9 May a reward of £1,000 was offered by Dublin Castle for his apprehension. Since the arrests at Bond's, FitzGerald had been in hiding, but had twice visited his wife in disguise and was himself visited by his stepfather Ogilvie and his friend William Lawless; he generally observed less caution than his situation required. Meanwhile, the date for the rising was finally fixed for 23 May and FitzGerald awaited the day hiding in a house in Thomas Street, Dublin.\n\nFitzGerald's hiding place was disclosed by a Catholic barrister and informer named Francis Magan and on 18 May Major Henry Sirr led a military party to the house where Lord Edward was in bed suffering from a fever. Alerted by the commotion, he jumped out of bed and, ignoring the pleas of the arresting officers Captain William Bellingham Swan (later assistant town Major of Dublin) and Captain Daniel Frederick Ryan to surrender peacefully, FitzGerald stabbed Swan and mortally wounded Ryan with a dagger in a desperate attempt to escape. The weapon used by Lord Edward to defend himself was later stolen from Major Swan's house by Emma Lucretia Dobbin the daughter of Rev. William Dobbin and Catherine Coote. He was only secured after Major Sirr shot him in the shoulder. The scabbard reputedly used by Lord Edward Fitzgerald at his arrest in 1798 is held at Limerick Museum. \nHe was conveyed to New Prison, Dublin where he was denied proper medical treatment. After a brief detention in Dublin Castle, he was taken to Newgate. Inflammation set into his wound. His wife, whom the government probably had enough evidence to convict of treason, fled the country before he died without seeing him again, but his brother Henry and his aunt Lady Louisa Conolly were allowed to see him in his last moments. At the age of 34 he died as the rebellion raged outside on 4 June 1798. He was buried the next day in the cemetery of St Werburgh's Church, Dublin. An Act of Attainder confiscating his property was passed as 38 Geo. 3 c. 77, but was eventually repealed in 1819.\n\nShortly after his death, Fitzgerald's sister, Lady Lucy FitzGerald, authored the following statement regarding her brother's fidelity to Ireland:\nFitzgerald was of small stature and handsome features. In the opinion of the anonymous writer of his biography in the Encyclopædia Britannica eleventh edition (1911) Fitzgerald's character and career have been made the subject of eulogies much beyond their merits.\n\nThe same writer claims:\n\nThis opinion is not that held in Ireland, where Fitzgerald is remembered as brave and sweet-natured, a clever planner, and a tragic loss. His funeral is described:\n\nFitzGerald and Pamela had a son, Edward Fox FitzGerald (10 October 1794 - 25 January 1863), who married on 6 November 1827 to Jane Paul (died 2 November 1891), and two daughters, Pamela FitzGerald (1795/1796 - 25 November 1869), married on 21 November 1820 Sir Guy Campbell, 1st Baronet (died 26 January 1849), and Lucy Louisa FitzGerald (1798 - September 1826), married on 5 September 1825 Capt. George Francis Lyon (died 8 October 1832).\n\nThe County Roscommon GAA club Tulsk Lord Edward's is named after Fitzgerald. The Geraldines P. Moran GAA club in Cabinteely in Dublin is also named after him.\n\n\n\nEncyclopædia Britannica eleventh edition in an endnote included the following sources :\n"}
{"id": "1762140", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1762140", "title": "MTropolis", "text": "MTropolis\n\nmTropolis (pronounced \"metropolis\") was an open-architecture multimedia programming application aimed at enabling rapid development of multimedia titles. It was developed by mFactory (pronounced \"em-factory\") and introduced in 1995. It introduced object-oriented concepts such as reusable objects, modifiers and behaviors into the multimedia authoring space dominated by Macromedia's Director software. mTropolis was bought in 1997 by Quark, which moved development from Burlingame, California to Denver and then cancelled the product one year later. Despite efforts by its fervent users to attempt to save their investment and beloved tool, negotiations and even a possible purchase offer never came to fruition.\n\nmTropolis (pronounced \"metropolis\") competed in the interactive multimedia product space dominated in the 1990s by Macromedia Director. The software's maker, mFactory (pronounced \"em-factory\"), founded in 1992, variously positioned mTropolis as an alternative and as an adjunct to Director.\n\nmTropolis was bought by Quark in 1997. The use of behaviors in mTropolis spurred Macromedia on to introduce behaviors in Director 6.0.\nI was there when Seery, Shepherd, meself and probably Greggy went over to the Mtrop user meetings. We straight out stole [behaviors] from \nthem.\n\n- \"Alex Zavatone (ex Macromedia) on the Direct-L Mailing List, Tue, 9 Sep 2008\"\nWhile multimedia CD-ROM authoring has largely been rendered irrelevant by online content distribution, mTropolis remains an interesting study in application design, and held a loyal following for many years.\n\nThe development environment was very different from the other tools around at the time - Apple Computer's HyperCard and others had a card based metaphor, and Macromedia Director had a film metaphor (the content area is called The Stage, the time line The Score, an assets library named The Cast, etc.). In mTropolis there were sections, subsections, and scenes. Assets would be placed onto the scene, and then combinations of behaviors and modifiers would be dragged onto the assets.\n\nPowerful interaction and animation could be created by making different modifiers send messages to each other, allowing a user to create something impressive fairly quickly, without any typing. There was a simple programming language, accessed via a Miniscript modifier, but most of the programming was achieved by attaching standard behaviors and modifiers, and making selections within the modifier pop-up menus.\n\nAccording to Starship Titanic author Douglas Adams, his team had originally selected mTropolis 1.0 for its development platform but it had to be abandoned for unspecified technical insufficiencies in favor of an in-house tool.\n\nOne criticism of the tool was that the integrated programming language, Miniscript, was lacking key features necessary for common tasks. Because mTropolis was conceived around a visual programming metaphor, mFactory engineers intentionally omitted control constructs such as conditional loops. To remedy such limitations, the third-party developer AX Logic produced the commercially-available Alien Studio modifier as a drop-in replacement for Miniscript.\n\nThe advent in version 1.1 of the mTropolis browser plug-in for Netscape Navigator, dubbed \"mPire,\" exposed a core architectural shortcoming. The binary file format was not cross-platform; in order to make a mTropolis element available for embedding on a web page, the author was required to save a Macintosh version and a separate Windows version. Hence the web server had to store redundant copies of the same content, consuming disk space and necessitating the use of loader pages to serve the file appropriate for the end user's operating system.\n\nWhile playback engines existed for both the Macintosh and Windows platforms, the mTropolis authoring system itself only ran on the Mac.\n\nJanuary 1995: Released at MacWorld San Francisco. Retail price $4,495.\n\nMay 1996: Added support for QuickTime VR 1.0. Retail price $1,195.\n\nOctober 1996: mFactory releases beta 1 of the mPire browser plug-in.\n\nMarch 1997: mFactory announces pre-order sales availability for version 2.0, due to ship in \"the second half of May.\" Retail price $995.\n\nMay 1997: Quark, Inc. purchases mFactory.\n\nMarch 1998: Quark announces that v2.0 would be furnished free-of-charge to registered mTropolis v1 customers, but that the product will not be made available for general purchase.\n\nDue to the way the mTropolis Player was separate from developer content, by viewing the files, it is easy to tell if a title was developed with mTropolis. A few CD-ROMs were created using mTropolis, including the BAFTA award winning MindGym, Scott Kim's Obsidian, A Sharp's King of Dragon Pass, the Muppets Treasure Island, Voyager's Fun With Architecture and The Magic World of Beatrix Potter.\n\n"}
{"id": "20958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=20958", "title": "Magna Carta", "text": "Magna Carta\n\nThe charter became part of English political life and was typically renewed by each monarch in turn, although as time went by and the fledgling English Parliament passed new laws, it lost some of its practical significance. At the end of the 16th century there was an upsurge in interest in Magna Carta. Lawyers and historians at the time believed that there was an ancient English constitution, going back to the days of the Anglo-Saxons, that protected individual English freedoms. They argued that the Norman invasion of 1066 had overthrown these rights, and that Magna Carta had been a popular attempt to restore them, making the charter an essential foundation for the contemporary powers of Parliament and legal principles such as \"habeas corpus\". Although this historical account was badly flawed, jurists such as Sir Edward Coke used Magna Carta extensively in the early 17th century, arguing against the divine right of kings propounded by the Stuart monarchs. Both James I and his son Charles I attempted to suppress the discussion of Magna Carta, until the issue was curtailed by the English Civil War of the 1640s and the execution of Charles.\n\nThe political myth of Magna Carta and its protection of ancient personal liberties persisted after the Glorious Revolution of 1688 until well into the 19th century. It influenced the early American colonists in the Thirteen Colonies and the formation of the American Constitution in 1787, which became the supreme law of the land in the new republic of the United States. Research by Victorian historians showed that the original 1215 charter had concerned the medieval relationship between the monarch and the barons, rather than the rights of ordinary people, but the charter remained a powerful, iconic document, even after almost all of its content was repealed from the statute books in the 19th and 20th centuries. Magna Carta still forms an important symbol of liberty today, often cited by politicians and campaigners, and is held in great respect by the British and American legal communities, Lord Denning describing it as \"the greatest constitutional document of all times – the foundation of the freedom of the individual against the arbitrary authority of the despot\".\n\nIn the 21st century, four exemplifications of the original 1215 charter remain in existence, two at the British Library, one at Lincoln Cathedral and one at Salisbury Cathedral. There are also a handful of the subsequent charters in public and private ownership, including copies of the 1297 charter in both the United States and Australia. The original charters were written on parchment sheets using quill pens, in heavily abbreviated medieval Latin, which was the convention for legal documents at that time. Each was sealed with the royal great seal (made of beeswax and resin sealing wax): very few of the seals have survived. Although scholars refer to the 63 numbered \"clauses\" of Magna Carta, this is a modern system of numbering, introduced by Sir William Blackstone in 1759; the original charter formed a single, long unbroken text. The four original 1215 charters were displayed together at the British Library for one day, 3 February 2015, to mark the 800th anniversary of Magna Carta.\n\nMagna Carta originated as an unsuccessful attempt to achieve peace between royalist and rebel factions in 1215, as part of the events leading to the outbreak of the First Barons' War. England was ruled by King John, the third of the Angevin kings. Although the kingdom had a robust administrative system, the nature of government under the Angevin monarchs was ill-defined and uncertain. John and his predecessors had ruled using the principle of \"vis et voluntas\", or \"force and will\", taking executive and sometimes arbitrary decisions, often justified on the basis that a king was above the law. Many contemporary writers believed that monarchs should rule in accordance with the custom and the law, with the counsel of the leading members of the realm, but there was no model for what should happen if a king refused to do so.\n\nJohn had lost most of his ancestral lands in France to King Philip II in 1204 and had struggled to regain them for many years, raising extensive taxes on the barons to accumulate money to fight a war which ended in expensive failure in 1214. Following the defeat of his allies at the Battle of Bouvines, John had to sue for peace and pay compensation. John was already personally unpopular with many of the barons, many of whom owed money to the Crown, and little trust existed between the two sides. A triumph would have strengthened his position, but in the face of his defeat, within a few months after his return from France John found that rebel barons in the north and east of England were organising resistance to his rule.\n\nThe rebels took an oath that they would \"stand fast for the liberty of the church and the realm\", and demanded that the King confirm the Charter of Liberties that had been declared by King Henry I in the previous century, and which was perceived by the barons to protect their rights. The rebel leadership was unimpressive by the standards of the time, even disreputable, but were united by their hatred of John; Robert FitzWalter, later elected leader of the rebel barons, claimed publicly that John had attempted to rape his daughter, and was implicated in a plot to assassinate John in 1212.\nJohn held a council in London in January 1215 to discuss potential reforms, and sponsored discussions in Oxford between his agents and the rebels during the spring. Both sides appealed to Pope Innocent III for assistance in the dispute. During the negotiations, the rebellious barons produced an initial document, which historians have termed \"the Unknown Charter of Liberties\", which drew on Henry I's Charter of Liberties for much of its language; seven articles from that document later appeared in the \"Articles of the Barons\" and the subsequent charter.\n\nIt was John's hope that the Pope would give him valuable legal and moral support, and accordingly John played for time; the King had declared himself to be a papal vassal in 1213 and correctly believed he could count on the Pope for help. John also began recruiting mercenary forces from France, although some were later sent back to avoid giving the impression that the King was escalating the conflict. In a further move to shore up his support, John took an oath to become a crusader, a move which gave him additional political protection under church law, even though many felt the promise was insincere.\n\nLetters backing John arrived from the Pope in April, but by then the rebel barons had organised into a military faction. They congregated at Northampton in May and renounced their feudal ties to John, marching on London, Lincoln, and Exeter. John's efforts to appear moderate and conciliatory had been largely successful, but once the rebels held London, they attracted a fresh wave of defectors from the royalists. The King offered to submit the problem to a committee of arbitration with the Pope as the supreme arbiter, but this was not attractive to the rebels. Stephen Langton, the Archbishop of Canterbury, had been working with the rebel barons on their demands, and after the suggestion of papal arbitration failed, John instructed Langton to organise peace talks.\n\nJohn met the rebel leaders at Runnymede, a water-meadow on the south bank of the River Thames, on 10 June 1215. Runnymede was a traditional place for assemblies, but it was also located on neutral ground between the royal fortress of Windsor Castle and the rebel base at Staines, and offered both sides the security of a rendezvous where they were unlikely to find themselves at a military disadvantage. Here the rebels presented John with their draft demands for reform, the 'Articles of the Barons'. Stephen Langton's pragmatic efforts at mediation over the next ten days turned these incomplete demands into a charter capturing the proposed peace agreement; a few years later, this agreement was renamed Magna Carta, meaning \"Great Charter\". By 15 June, general agreement had been made on a text, and on 19 June, the rebels renewed their oaths of loyalty to John and copies of the charter were formally issued.\n\nAlthough, as the historian David Carpenter has noted, the charter \"wasted no time on political theory\", it went beyond simply addressing individual baronial complaints, and formed a wider proposal for political reform. It promised the protection of church rights, protection from illegal imprisonment, access to swift justice, and, most importantly, limitations on taxation and other feudal payments to the Crown, with certain forms of feudal taxation requiring baronial consent. It focused on the rights of free men—in particular the barons - however, the rights of serfs were included in articles 16, 20, and 28. Its style and content reflected Henry I's Charter of Liberties, as well as a wider body of legal traditions, including the royal charters issued to towns, the operations of the Church and baronial courts and European charters such as the Statute of Pamiers.\n\nUnder what historians later labelled \"clause 61\", or the \"security clause\", a council of 25 barons would be created to monitor and ensure John's future adherence to the charter. If John did not conform to the charter within 40 days of being notified of a transgression by the council, the 25 barons were empowered by clause 61 to seize John's castles and lands until, in their judgement, amends had been made. Men were to be compelled to swear an oath to assist the council in controlling the King, but once redress had been made for any breaches, the King would continue to rule as before. In one sense this was not unprecedented; other kings had previously conceded the right of individual resistance to their subjects if the King did not uphold his obligations. Magna Carta was however novel in that it set up a formally recognised means of collectively coercing the King. The historian Wilfred Warren argues that it was almost inevitable that the clause would result in civil war, as it \"was crude in its methods and disturbing in its implications\". The barons were trying to force John to keep to the charter, but clause 61 was so heavily weighted against the King that this version of the charter could not survive.\n\nJohn and the rebel barons did not trust each other, and neither side seriously attempted to implement the peace accord. The 25 barons selected for the new council were all rebels, chosen by the more extremist barons, and many among the rebels found excuses to keep their forces mobilised. Disputes began to emerge between the royalist faction and those rebels who had expected the charter to return lands that had been confiscated .\n\nClause 61 of Magna Carta contained a commitment from John that he would \"seek to obtain nothing from anyone, in our own person or through someone else, whereby any of these grants or liberties may be revoked or diminished\". Despite this, the King appealed to Pope Innocent for help in July, arguing that the charter compromised the Pope's rights as John's feudal lord. As part of the June peace deal, the barons were supposed to surrender London by 15 August, but this they refused to do. Meanwhile, instructions from the Pope arrived in August, written before the peace accord, with the result that papal commissioners excommunicated the rebel barons and suspended Langton from office in early September. Once aware of the charter, the Pope responded in detail: in a letter dated 24 August and arriving in late September, he declared the charter to be \"not only shameful and demeaning but also illegal and unjust\" since John had been \"forced to accept\" it, and accordingly the charter was \"null, and void of all validity for ever\"; under threat of excommunication, the King was not to observe the charter, nor the barons try to enforce it.\n\nBy then, violence had broken out between the two sides; less than three months after it had been agreed, John and the loyalist barons firmly repudiated the failed charter: the First Barons' War erupted. The rebel barons concluded that peace with John was impossible, and turned to Philip II's son, the future Louis VIII, for help, offering him the English throne. The war soon settled into a stalemate. The King became ill and died on the night of 18 October 1216, leaving the nine-year-old Henry III as his heir.\n\nThe preamble to Magna Carta includes the names of the following 27 ecclesiastical and secular magnates who had counselled John to accept its terms. The names include some of the moderate reformers, notably Archbishop Stephen Langton, and some of John's loyal supporters, such as William Marshal, Earl of Pembroke. They are listed here in the order in which they appear in the charter itself:\n\n\nThe names of the Twenty-Five Barons appointed under clause 61 to monitor John's future conduct are not given in the charter itself, but do appear in four early sources, all seemingly based on a contemporary listing: a late 13th-century collection of law tracts and statutes, a Reading Abbey manuscript now in Lambeth Palace Library, and the \"Chronica Majora\" and \"Liber Additamentorum\" of Matthew Paris. The process of appointment is not known, but the names were drawn almost exclusively from among John's more active opponents. They are listed here in the order in which they appear in the original sources:\n\n\nIn September 1215, the papal commissioners in England – Subdeacon Pandulf, Peter des Roches, Bishop of Winchester, and Simon, Abbot of Reading – excommunicated the rebels, acting on instructions earlier received from Rome. A letter sent by the commissioners from Dover on 5 September to Archbishop Langton explicitly names nine senior rebel barons (all members of the Council of Twenty-Five), and six clerics numbered among the rebel ranks:\n\n\n\n\nAlthough the Charter of 1215 was a failure as a peace treaty, it was resurrected under the new government of the young Henry III as a way of drawing support away from the rebel faction. On his deathbed, King John appointed a council of thirteen executors to help Henry reclaim the kingdom, and requested that his son be placed into the guardianship of William Marshal, one of the most famous knights in England. William knighted the boy, and Cardinal Guala Bicchieri, the papal legate to England, then oversaw his coronation at Gloucester Cathedral on 28 October.\n\nThe young King inherited a difficult situation, with over half of England occupied by the rebels. He had substantial support though from Guala, who intended to win the civil war for Henry and punish the rebels. Guala set about strengthening the ties between England and the Papacy, starting with the coronation itself, during which Henry gave homage to the Papacy, recognising the Pope as his feudal lord. Pope Honorius III declared that Henry was the Pope's vassal and ward, and that the legate had complete authority to protect Henry and his kingdom. As an additional measure, Henry took the cross, declaring himself a crusader and thereby entitled to special protection from Rome.\n\nThe war was not going well for the loyalists, but Prince Louis and the rebel barons were also finding it difficult to make further progress. John's death had defused some of the rebel concerns, and the royal castles were still holding out in the occupied parts of the country. Henry's government encouraged the rebel barons to come back to his cause in exchange for the return of their lands, and reissued a version of the 1215 Charter, albeit having first removed some of the clauses, including those unfavourable to the Papacy and clause 61, which had set up the council of barons. The move was not successful, and opposition to Henry's new government hardened.\n\nIn February 1217, Louis set sail for France to gather reinforcements. In his absence, arguments broke out between Louis' French and English followers, and Cardinal Guala declared that Henry's war against the rebels was the equivalent of a religious crusade. This declaration resulted in a series of defections from the rebel movement, and the tide of the conflict swung in Henry's favour. Louis returned at the end of April, but his northern forces were defeated by William Marshal at the Battle of Lincoln in May.\n\nMeanwhile, support for Louis' campaign was diminishing in France, and he concluded that the war in England was lost. He negotiated terms with Cardinal Guala, under which Louis would renounce his claim to the English throne; in return, his followers would be given back their lands, any sentences of excommunication would be lifted, and Henry's government would promise to enforce the charter of the previous year. The proposed agreement soon began to unravel amid claims from some loyalists that it was too generous towards the rebels, particularly the clergy who had joined the rebellion.\n\nIn the absence of a settlement, Louis remained in London with his remaining forces, hoping for the arrival of reinforcements from France. When the expected fleet did arrive in August, it was intercepted and defeated by loyalists at the Battle of Sandwich. Louis entered into fresh peace negotiations, and the factions came to agreement on the final Treaty of Lambeth, also known as the Treaty of Kingston, on 12 and 13 September 1217. The treaty was similar to the first peace offer, but excluded the rebel clergy, whose lands and appointments remained forfeit; it included a promise, however, that Louis' followers would be allowed to enjoy their traditional liberties and customs, referring back to the Charter of 1216. Louis left England as agreed and joined the Albigensian Crusade in the south of France, bringing the war to an end.\n\nA great council was called in October and November to take stock of the post-war situation; this council is thought to have formulated and issued the Charter of 1217. The charter resembled that of 1216, although some additional clauses were added to protect the rights of the barons over their feudal subjects, and the restrictions on the Crown's ability to levy taxation were watered down. There remained a range of disagreements about the management of the royal forests, which involved a special legal system that had resulted in a source of considerable royal revenue; complaints existed over both the implementation of these courts, and the geographic boundaries of the royal forests. A complementary charter, the Charter of the Forest, was created, pardoning existing forest offences, imposing new controls over the forest courts, and establishing a review of the forest boundaries. To distinguish the two charters, the term \"magna carta libertatum\", \"the great charter of liberties\", was used by the scribes to refer to the larger document, which in time became known simply as Magna Carta.\n\nMagna Carta became increasingly embedded into English political life during Henry III's minority. As the King grew older, his government slowly began to recover from the civil war, regaining control of the counties and beginning to raise revenue once again, taking care not to overstep the terms of the charters. Henry remained a minor and his government's legal ability to make permanently binding decisions on his behalf was limited. In 1223, the tensions over the status of the charters became clear in the royal court, when Henry's government attempted to reassert its rights over its properties and revenues in the counties, facing resistance from many communities that argued—if sometimes incorrectly—that the charters protected the new arrangements. This resistance resulted in an argument between Archbishop Langton and William Brewer over whether the King had any duty to fulfil the terms of the charters, given that he had been forced to agree to them. On this occasion, Henry gave oral assurances that he considered himself bound by the charters, enabling a royal inquiry into the situation in the counties to progress.\n\nTwo years later, the question of Henry's commitment to the charters re-emerged, when Louis VIII of France invaded Henry's remaining provinces in France, Poitou and Gascony. Henry's army in Poitou was under-resourced, and the province quickly fell. It became clear that Gascony would also fall unless reinforcements were sent from England. In early 1225, a great council approved a tax of £40,000 to dispatch an army, which quickly retook Gascony. In exchange for agreeing to support Henry, the barons demanded that the King reissue Magna Carta and the Charter of the Forest. The content was almost identical to the 1217 versions, but in the new versions, the King declared that the charters were issued of his own \"spontaneous and free will\" and confirmed them with the royal seal, giving the new Great Charter and the Charter of the Forest of 1225 much more authority than the previous versions.\n\nThe barons anticipated that the King would act in accordance with these charters, subject to the law and moderated by the advice of the nobility. Uncertainty continued, and in 1227, when he was declared of age and able to rule independently, Henry announced that future charters had to be issued under his own seal. This brought into question the validity of the previous charters issued during his minority, and Henry actively threatened to overturn the Charter of the Forest unless the taxes promised in return for it were actually paid. In 1253, Henry confirmed the charters once again in exchange for taxation.\n\nHenry placed a symbolic emphasis on rebuilding royal authority, but his rule was relatively circumscribed by Magna Carta. He generally acted within the terms of the charters, which prevented the Crown from taking extrajudicial action against the barons, including the fines and expropriations that had been common under his father, John. The charters did not address the sensitive issues of the appointment of royal advisers and the distribution of patronage, and they lacked any means of enforcement if the King chose to ignore them. The inconsistency with which he applied the charters over the course of his rule alienated many barons, even those within his own faction.\n\nDespite the various charters, the provision of royal justice was inconsistent and driven by the needs of immediate politics: sometimes action would be taken to address a legitimate baronial complaint, while on other occasions the problem would simply be ignored. The royal courts, which toured the country to provide justice at the local level, typically for lesser barons and the gentry claiming grievances against major lords, had little power, allowing the major barons to dominate the local justice system. Henry's rule became lax and careless, resulting in a reduction in royal authority in the provinces and, ultimately, the collapse of his authority at court.\n\nIn 1258, a group of barons seized power from Henry in a \"coup d'état\", citing the need to strictly enforce Magna Carta and the Charter of the Forest, creating a new baronial-led government to advance reform through the Provisions of Oxford. The barons were not militarily powerful enough to win a decisive victory, and instead appealed to Louis IX of France in 1263–1264 to arbitrate on their proposed reforms. The reformist barons argued their case based on Magna Carta, suggesting that it was inviolable under English law and that the King had broken its terms.\n\nLouis came down firmly in favour of Henry, but the French arbitration failed to achieve peace as the rebellious barons refused to accept the verdict. England slipped back into the Second Barons' War, which was won by Henry's son, the Lord Edward. Edward also invoked Magna Carta in advancing his cause, arguing that the reformers had taken matters too far and were themselves acting against Magna Carta. In a conciliatory gesture after the barons had been defeated, in 1267 Henry issued the Statute of Marlborough, which included a fresh commitment to observe the terms of Magna Carta.\n\nThe following 65 individuals were witnesses to the 1225 issue of Magna Carta, named in the order in which they appear in the charter itself:\n\n\nKing Edward I reissued the Charters of 1225 in 1297 in return for a new tax. It is this version which remains in statute today, although with most articles now repealed.\n\nThe \"Confirmatio Cartarum\" (Confirmation of Charters) was issued in Norman French by Edward I in 1297. Edward, needing money, had taxed the nobility, and they had armed themselves against him, forcing Edward to issue his confirmation of Magna Carta and the Forest Charter to avoid civil war. The nobles had sought to add another document, the \"De Tallagio\", to Magna Carta. Edward I's government was not prepared to concede this, they agreed to the issuing of the \"Confirmatio\", confirming the previous charters and confirming the principle that taxation should be by consent, although the precise manner of that consent was not laid down.\n\nA passage mandates that copies shall be distributed in \"cathedral churches throughout our realm, there to remain, and shall be read before the people two times by the year\", hence the permanent installation of a copy in Salisbury Cathedral. In the Confirmation's second article, it is confirmed that\n\nWith the reconfirmation of the Charters in 1300, an additional document was granted, the \"Articuli super Cartas\" (The Articles upon the Charters). It was composed of 17 articles and sought in part to deal with the problem of enforcing the Charters. Magna Carta and the Forest Charter were to be issued to the sheriff of each county, and should be read four times a year at the meetings of the county courts. Each county should have a committee of three men who could hear complaints about violations of the Charters.\n\nPope Clement V continued the papal policy of supporting monarchs (who ruled by divine grace) against any claims in Magna Carta which challenged the King's rights, and annulled the \"Confirmatio Cartarum\" in 1305. Edward I interpreted Clement V's papal bull annulling the \"Confirmatio Cartarum\" as effectively applying to the \"Articuli super Cartas\", although the latter was not specifically mentioned. In 1306 Edward I took the opportunity given by the Pope's backing to reassert forest law over large areas which had been \"disafforested\". Both Edward and the Pope were accused by some contemporary chroniclers of \"perjury\", and it was suggested by Robert McNair Scott that Robert the Bruce refused to make peace with Edward I's son, Edward II, in 1312 with the justification: \"How shall the king of England keep faith with me, since he does not observe the sworn promises made to his liege men...\"\n\nThe Great Charter was referred to in legal cases throughout the medieval period. For example, in 1226, the knights of Lincolnshire argued that their local sheriff was changing customary practice regarding the local courts, \"contrary to their liberty which they ought to have by the charter of the lord king\". In practice, cases were not brought against the King for breach of Magna Carta and the Forest Charter, but it was possible to bring a case against the King's officers, such as his sheriffs, using the argument that the King's officers were acting contrary to liberties granted by the King in the charters.\n\nIn addition, medieval cases referred to the clauses in Magna Carta which dealt with specific issues such as wardship and dower, debt collection, and keeping rivers free for navigation. Even in the 13th century, some clauses of Magna Carta rarely appeared in legal cases, either because the issues concerned were no longer relevant, or because Magna Carta had been superseded by more relevant legislation. By 1350 half the clauses of Magna Carta were no longer actively used.\n\nDuring the reign of King Edward III six measures, later known as the \"Six Statutes\", were passed between 1331 and 1369. They sought to clarify certain parts of the Charters. In particular the third statute, in 1354, redefined clause 29, with \"free man\" becoming \"no man, of whatever estate or condition he may be\", and introduced the phrase \"due process of law\" for \"lawful judgement of his peers or the law of the land\".\n\nBetween the 13th and 15th centuries Magna Carta was reconfirmed 32 times according to Sir Edward Coke, and possibly as many as 45 times. Often the first item of parliamentary business was a public reading and reaffirmation of the Charter, and, as in the previous century, parliaments often exacted confirmation of it from the monarch. The Charter was confirmed in 1423 by King Henry VI.\n\nBy the mid-15th century, Magna Carta ceased to occupy a central role in English political life, as monarchs reasserted authority and powers which had been challenged in the 100 years after Edward I's reign. The Great Charter remained a text for lawyers, particularly as a protector of property rights, and became more widely read than ever as printed versions circulated and levels of literacy increased.\n\nDuring the 16th century, the interpretation of Magna Carta and the First Barons' War shifted. Henry VII took power at the end of the turbulent Wars of the Roses, followed by Henry VIII, and extensive propaganda under both rulers promoted the legitimacy of the regime, the illegitimacy of any sort of rebellion against royal power, and the priority of supporting the Crown in its arguments with the Papacy.\n\nTudor historians rediscovered the Barnwell chronicler, who was more favourable to King John than other 13th-century texts, and, as historian Ralph Turner describes, they \"viewed King John in a positive light as a hero struggling against the papacy\", showing \"little sympathy for the Great Charter or the rebel barons\". Pro-Catholic demonstrations during the 1536 uprising cited Magna Carta, accusing the King of not giving it sufficient respect.\n\nThe first mechanically printed edition of Magna Carta was probably the \"Magna Carta cum aliis Antiquis Statutis\" of 1508 by Richard Pynson, although the early printed versions of the 16th century incorrectly attributed the origins of Magna Carta to Henry III and 1225, rather than to John and 1215, and accordingly worked from the later text. An abridged English-language edition was published by John Rastell in 1527.\nThomas Berthelet, Pynson's successor as the royal printer during 1530–1547,\nprinted an edition of the text along with other \"ancient statutes\" in 1531 and 1540.\nIn 1534, George Ferrers published the first unabridged English-language edition of Magna Carta, dividing the Charter into 37 numbered clauses.\n\nAt the end of the 16th century, there was an upsurge in antiquarian interest in England. This work concluded that there was a set of ancient English customs and laws, temporarily overthrown by the Norman invasion of 1066, which had then been recovered in 1215 and recorded in Magna Carta, which in turn gave authority to important 16th century legal principles. Modern historians note that although this narrative was fundamentally incorrect—many refer to it as a \"myth\"—it took on great importance among the legal historians of the time.\n\nThe antiquarian William Lambarde, for example, published what he believed were the Anglo-Saxon and Norman law codes, tracing the origins of the 16th-century English Parliament back to this period, albeit misinterpreting the dates of many documents concerned. Francis Bacon argued that clause 39 of Magna Carta was the basis of the 16th-century jury system and judicial processes. Antiquarians Robert Beale, James Morice, and Richard Cosin argued that Magna Carta was a statement of liberty and a fundamental, supreme law empowering English government. Those who questioned these conclusions, including the Member of Parliament Arthur Hall, faced sanctions.\n\nIn the early 17th century, Magna Carta became increasingly important as a political document in arguments over the authority of the English monarchy. James I and Charles I both propounded greater authority for the Crown, justified by the doctrine of the divine right of kings, and Magna Carta was cited extensively by their opponents to challenge the monarchy.\n\nMagna Carta, it was argued, recognised and protected the liberty of individual Englishmen, made the King subject to the common law of the land, formed the origin of the trial by jury system, and acknowledged the ancient origins of Parliament: because of Magna Carta and this ancient constitution, an English monarch was unable to alter these long-standing English customs. Although the arguments based on Magna Carta were historically inaccurate, they nonetheless carried symbolic power, as the charter had immense significance during this period; antiquarians such as Sir Henry Spelman described it as \"the most majestic and a sacrosanct anchor to English Liberties\".\n\nSir Edward Coke was a leader in using Magna Carta as a political tool during this period. Still working from the 1225 version of the text—the first printed copy of the 1215 charter only emerged in 1610—Coke spoke and wrote about Magna Carta repeatedly. His work was challenged at the time by Lord Ellesmere, and modern historians such as Ralph Turner and Claire Breay have critiqued Coke as \"misconstruing\" the original charter \"anachronistically and uncritically\", and taking a \"very selective\" approach to his analysis. More sympathetically, J. C. Holt noted that the history of the charters had already become \"distorted\" by the time Coke was carrying out his work.\nIn 1621, a bill was presented to Parliament to renew Magna Carta; although this bill failed, lawyer John Selden argued during Darnell's Case in 1627 that the right of \"habeas corpus\" was backed by Magna Carta. Coke supported the Petition of Right in 1628, which cited Magna Carta in its preamble, attempting to extend the provisions, and to make them binding on the judiciary. The monarchy responded by arguing that the historical legal situation was much less clear-cut than was being claimed, restricted the activities of antiquarians, arrested Coke for treason, and suppressed his proposed book on Magna Carta. Charles initially did not agree to the Petition of Right, and refused to confirm Magna Carta in any way that would reduce his independence as King.\n\nEngland descended into civil war in the 1640s, resulting in Charles I's execution in 1649. Under the republic that followed, some questioned whether Magna Carta, an agreement with a monarch, was still relevant. An anti-Cromwellian pamphlet published in 1660, \"The English devil\", said that the nation had been \"compelled to submit to this Tyrant Nol or be cut off by him; nothing but a word and a blow, his Will was his Law; tell him of Magna Carta, he would lay his hand on his sword and cry Magna Farta\". In a 2005 speech the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, Lord Woolf, repeated the claim that Cromwell had referred to Magna Carta as \"Magna Farta\".\n\nThe radical groups that flourished during this period held differing opinions of Magna Carta. The Levellers rejected history and law as presented by their contemporaries, holding instead to an \"anti-Normanism\" viewpoint. John Lilburne, for example, argued that Magna Carta contained only some of the freedoms that had supposedly existed under the Anglo-Saxons before being crushed by the Norman yoke. The Leveller Richard Overton described the charter as \"a beggarly thing containing many marks of intolerable bondage\". Both saw Magna Carta as a useful declaration of liberties that could be used against governments they disagreed with. Gerrard Winstanley, the leader of the more extreme Diggers, stated \"the best lawes that England hath, [viz., the Magna Carta] were got by our Forefathers importunate petitioning unto the kings that still were their Task-masters; and yet these best laws are yoaks and manicles, tying one sort of people to be slaves to another; Clergy and Gentry have got their freedom, but the common people still are, and have been left servants to work for them.\"\n\nThe first attempt at a proper historiography was undertaken by Robert Brady, who refuted the supposed antiquity of Parliament and belief in the immutable continuity of the law. Brady realised that the liberties of the Charter were limited and argued that the liberties were the grant of the King. By putting Magna Carta in historical context, he cast doubt on its contemporary political relevance; his historical understanding did not survive the Glorious Revolution, which, according to the historian J. G. A. Pocock, \"marked a setback for the course of English historiography.\"\n\nAccording to the Whig interpretation of history, the Glorious Revolution was an example of the reclaiming of ancient liberties. Reinforced with Lockean concepts, the Whigs believed England's constitution to be a social contract, based on documents such as Magna Carta, the Petition of Right, and the Bill of Rights. The \"English Liberties\" (1680, in later versions often \"British Liberties\") by the Whig propagandist Henry Care (d. 1688) was a cheap polemical book that was influential and much-reprinted, in the American colonies as well as Britain, and made Magna Carta central to the history and the contemporary legitimacy of its subject.\n\nIdeas about the nature of law in general were beginning to change. In 1716, the Septennial Act was passed, which had a number of consequences. First, it showed that Parliament no longer considered its previous statutes unassailable, as it provided for a maximum parliamentary term of seven years, whereas the Triennial Act (1694) (enacted less than a quarter of a century previously) had provided for a maximum term of three years.\n\nIt also greatly extended the powers of Parliament. Under this new constitution, monarchical absolutism was replaced by parliamentary supremacy. It was quickly realised that Magna Carta stood in the same relation to the King-in-Parliament as it had to the King without Parliament. This supremacy would be challenged by the likes of Granville Sharp. Sharp regarded Magna Carta as a fundamental part of the constitution, and maintained that it would be treason to repeal any part of it. He also held that the Charter prohibited slavery.\n\nSir William Blackstone published a critical edition of the 1215 Charter in 1759, and gave it the numbering system still used today. In 1763, Member of Parliament John Wilkes was arrested for writing an inflammatory pamphlet, \"No. 45, 23 April 1763\"; he cited Magna Carta continually. Lord Camden denounced the treatment of Wilkes as a contravention of Magna Carta. Thomas Paine, in his \"Rights of Man\", would disregard Magna Carta and the Bill of Rights on the grounds that they were not a written constitution devised by elected representatives.\n\nWhen English colonists left for the New World, they brought royal charters that established the colonies. The Massachusetts Bay Company charter, for example, stated that the colonists would \"have and enjoy all liberties and immunities of free and natural subjects.\" The Virginia Charter of 1606, which was largely drafted by Sir Edward Coke, stated that the colonists would have the same \"liberties, franchises and immunities\" as people born in England. The Massachusetts Body of Liberties contained similarities to clause 29 of Magna Carta; when drafting it, the Massachusetts General Court viewed Magna Carta as the chief embodiment of English common law. The other colonies would follow their example. In 1638, Maryland sought to recognise Magna Carta as part of the law of the province, but the request was denied by Charles I.\n\nIn 1687, William Penn published \"The Excellent Privilege of Liberty and Property: being the birth-right of the Free-Born Subjects of England\", which contained the first copy of Magna Carta printed on American soil. Penn's comments reflected Coke's, indicating a belief that Magna Carta was a fundamental law. The colonists drew on English law books, leading them to an anachronistic interpretation of Magna Carta, believing that it guaranteed trial by jury and \"habeas corpus\".\n\nThe development of parliamentary supremacy in the British Isles did not constitutionally affect the Thirteen Colonies, which retained an adherence to English common law, but it directly affected the relationship between Britain and the colonies. When American colonists fought against Britain, they were fighting not so much for new freedom, but to preserve liberties and rights that they believed to be enshrined in Magna Carta.\n\nIn the late 18th century, the United States Constitution became the supreme law of the land, recalling the manner in which Magna Carta had come to be regarded as fundamental law. The Constitution's Fifth Amendment guarantees that \"no person shall be deprived of life, liberty, or property, without due process of law\", a phrase that was derived from Magna Carta. In addition, the Constitution included a similar writ in the Suspension Clause, Article 1, Section 9: \"The privilege of the writ of habeas corpus shall not be suspended, unless when in cases of rebellion or invasion, the public safety may require it.\"\n\nEach of these proclaim that no person may be imprisoned or detained without evidence that he or she committed a crime. The Ninth Amendment states that \"The enumeration in the Constitution, of certain rights, shall not be construed to deny or disparage others retained by the people.\" The writers of the U.S. Constitution wished to ensure that the rights they already held, such as those that they believed were provided by Magna Carta, would be preserved unless explicitly curtailed.\n\nThe Supreme Court of the United States has explicitly referenced Lord Coke's analysis of Magna Carta as an antecedent of the Sixth Amendment's right to a speedy trial.\n\nInitially, the Whig interpretation of Magna Carta and its role in constitutional history remained dominant during the 19th century. The historian William Stubbs's \"Constitutional History of England\", published in the 1870s, formed the high-water mark of this view. Stubbs argued that Magna Carta had been a major step in the shaping of the English nation, and he believed that the barons at Runnymede in 1215 were not just representing the nobility, but the people of England as a whole, standing up to a tyrannical ruler in the form of King John.\n\nThis view of Magna Carta began to recede. The late-Victorian jurist and historian Frederic William Maitland provided an alternative academic history in 1899, which began to return Magna Carta to its historical roots. In 1904, Edward Jenks published an article entitled \"The Myth of Magna Carta\", which undermined the previously accepted view of Magna Carta. Historians such as Albert Pollard agreed with Jenks in concluding that Edward Coke had largely \"invented\" the myth of Magna Carta in the 17th century; these historians argued that the 1215 charter had not referred to liberty for the people at large, but rather to the protection of baronial rights.\n\nThis view also became popular in wider circles, and in 1930 Sellar and Yeatman published their parody on English history, \"1066 and All That\", in which they mocked the supposed importance of Magna Carta and its promises of universal liberty: \"Magna Charter was therefore the chief cause of Democracy in England, and thus a \"Good Thing\" for everyone (except the Common People)\".\n\nIn many literary representations of the medieval past, however, Magna Carta remained a foundation of English national identity. Some authors used the medieval roots of the document as an argument to preserve the social status quo, while others pointed to Magna Carta to challenge perceived economic injustices. The Baronial Order of Magna Charta was formed in 1898 to promote the ancient principles and values felt to be displayed in Magna Carta. The legal profession in England and the United States continued to hold Magna Carta in high esteem; they were instrumental in forming the Magna Carta Society in 1922 to protect the meadows at Runnymede from development in the 1920s, and in 1957, the American Bar Association erected the Magna Carta Memorial at Runnymede. The prominent lawyer Lord Denning described Magna Carta in 1956 as \"the greatest constitutional document of all times – the foundation of the freedom of the individual against the arbitrary authority of the despot\".\n\nRadicals such as Sir Francis Burdett believed that Magna Carta could not be repealed, but in the 19th century clauses which were obsolete or had been superseded began to be repealed. The repeal of clause 36 in 1829, by the Offences against the Person Act 1828 (9 Geo. 4 c. 31 s. 1), was the first time a clause of Magna Carta was repealed. Over the next 140 years, nearly the whole of Magna Carta (1297) as statute was repealed, leaving just clauses 1, 9, and 29 still in force (in England and Wales) after 1969. Most of the clauses were repealed in England and Wales by the Statute Law Revision Act 1863, and in modern Northern Ireland and also in the modern Republic of Ireland by the Statute Law (Ireland) Revision Act 1872.\n\nMany later attempts to draft constitutional forms of government trace their lineage back to Magna Carta. The British dominions, Australia and New Zealand, Canada (except Quebec), and formerly the Union of South Africa and Southern Rhodesia, reflected the influence of Magna Carta in their laws, and the Charter's effects can be seen in the laws of other states that evolved from the British Empire.\n\nMagna Carta continues to have a powerful iconic status in British society, being cited by politicians and lawyers in support of constitutional positions. Its perceived guarantee of trial by jury and other civil liberties, for example, led to Tony Benn's reference to the debate in 2008 over whether to increase the maximum time terrorism suspects could be held without charge from 28 to 42 days as \"the day Magna Carta was repealed\". Although rarely invoked in court in the modern era, in 2012 the Occupy London protestors attempted to use Magna Carta in resisting their eviction from St. Paul's Churchyard by the City of London. In his judgment the Master of the Rolls gave this short shrift, noting somewhat drily that although clause 29 was considered by many the foundation of the rule of law in England, he did not consider it directly relevant to the case, and the two other surviving clauses actually concerned the rights of the Church and the City of London.\n\nMagna Carta carries little legal weight in modern Britain, as most of its clauses have been repealed and relevant rights ensured by other statutes, but the historian James Holt remarks that the survival of the 1215 charter in national life is a \"reflexion of the continuous development of English law and administration\" and symbolic of the many struggles between authority and the law over the centuries. The historian W. L. Warren has observed that \"many who knew little and cared less about the content of the Charter have, in nearly all ages, invoked its name, and with good cause, for it meant more than it said\".\n\nIt also remains a topic of great interest to historians; Natalie Fryde characterised the charter as \"one of the holiest of cows in English medieval history\", with the debates over its interpretation and meaning unlikely to end. In many ways still a \"sacred text\", Magna Carta is generally considered part of the uncodified constitution of the United Kingdom; in a 2005 speech, the Lord Chief Justice of England and Wales, Lord Woolf, described it as the \"first of a series of instruments that now are recognised as having a special constitutional status\".\n\nMagna Carta was reprinted in New Zealand in 1881 as one of the Imperial Acts in force there. Clause 29 of the document remains in force as part of New Zealand law.\n\nThe document also continues to be honoured in the United States as an antecedent of the United States Constitution and Bill of Rights. In 1976, the UK lent one of four surviving originals of the 1215 Magna Carta to the United States for their bicentennial celebrations and also donated an ornate display case for it. The original was returned after one year, but a replica and the case are still on display in the United States Capitol Crypt in Washington, D.C.\n\nThe 800th anniversary of the original charter occurred on 15 June 2015, and organisations and institutions planned celebratory events. The British Library brought together the four existing copies of the 1215 manuscript in February 2015 for a special exhibition. British artist Cornelia Parker was commissioned to create a new artwork, \"Magna Carta (An Embroidery)\", which was shown at the British Library between May and July 2015. The artwork is a copy of the Wikipedia article about the Magna Carta (as it appeared on the document's 799th anniversary, 15 June 2014), hand-embroidered by over 200 people.\n\nOn 15 June 2015, a commemoration ceremony was conducted in Runnymede at the National Trust park, attended by British and American dignitaries.\n\nThe copy held by Lincoln Cathedral was exhibited in the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C., from November 2014 until January 2015. A new visitor centre at Lincoln Castle was opened for the anniversary. The Royal Mint released two commemorative two-pound coins.\n\nIn 2014, Bury St Edmunds in Suffolk celebrated the 800th anniversary of the barons' Charter of Liberties, said to have been secretly agreed there in November 1214.\n\nNumerous copies, known as exemplifications, were made of the various charters, and many of them still survive. The documents were written in heavily abbreviated medieval Latin in clear handwriting, using quill pens on sheets of parchment made from sheep skin, approximately across. They were sealed with the royal great seal by an official called the spigurnel, equipped with a special seal press, using beeswax and resin. There were no signatures on the charter of 1215, and the barons present did not attach their own seals to it. The charters were not numbered or divided into paragraphs or separate clauses at the time; the numbering system used today was introduced by the jurist Sir William Blackstone in 1759.\n\nAt least thirteen original copies of the charter of 1215 were issued by the royal chancery during that year, seven in the first tranche distributed on 24 June and another six later; they were sent to county sheriffs and bishops, who were probably charged for the privilege. Slight variations exist between the surviving copies, and there was probably no single \"master copy\". Of these documents, only four survive, all held in England: two now at the British Library, one at Lincoln Cathedral, and one at Salisbury Cathedral. Each of these versions is slightly different in size and text, and each is considered by historians to be equally authoritative.\n\nThe two 1215 charters held by the British Library, known as \"Cotton MS. Augustus II.106\" and \"Cotton Charter XIII.31a\", were acquired by the antiquarian Sir Robert Cotton in the 17th century. One of these had been found by Humphrey Wyems, a London lawyer, who may have discovered it in a tailor's shop. The other was found in Dover Castle in 1630 by Sir Edward Dering. The Dering charter is usually identified as the copy originally sent to the Cinque Ports in 1215. (In 2015 it was announced that David Carpenter had found the Dering copy to be identical to a transcription made in the 1290s from Canterbury Cathedral's copy of 1215, and so he suggests that the Dering copy's destination was the Cathedral rather than the Cinque Ports.) This copy was damaged in the Cotton library fire of 1731, when its seal was badly melted. The parchment was somewhat shrivelled but otherwise relatively unscathed, and an engraved facsimile of the charter was made by John Pine in 1733. In the 1830s, however, an ill-judged and bungled attempt at cleaning and conservation rendered the manuscript largely illegible to the naked eye. This is, nonetheless, the only surviving 1215 copy still to have its great seal attached.\n\nLincoln Cathedral's original copy of the 1215 charter has been held by the county since 1215; it was displayed in the Common Chamber in the cathedral before being moved to another building in 1846. Between 1939 and 1940 the copy was displayed in the British Pavilion at the 1939 World Fair in New York City, and at the Library of Congress. When the Second World War broke out, Winston Churchill wanted to give the charter to the American people, hoping that this would encourage the United States, then neutral, to enter the war against the Axis powers, but the cathedral was unwilling, and the plans were dropped. After December 1941, the copy was stored in Fort Knox, Kentucky, for safety, before being put on display again in 1944 and returned to Lincoln Cathedral in early 1946.\n\nThe copy was put on display in 1976 in the cathedral's medieval library. It was subsequently displayed in San Francisco, and was taken out of display for a time to undergo conservation in preparation for another visit to the United States, where it was exhibited in 2007 at the Contemporary Art Center of Virginia and the National Constitution Center in Philadelphia. The document returned to New York to be displayed at the Fraunces Tavern Museum during 2009. The document is currently on permanent loan to the David PJ Ross Vault at Lincoln Castle, along with an original copy of the 1217 Charter of the Forest.\n\nThe fourth copy, owned by Salisbury Cathedral, was first given in 1215 to its predecessor, Old Sarum Cathedral. Rediscovered by the cathedral in 1812, it has remained in Salisbury throughout its history, except when being taken off-site for restoration work. It is possibly the best preserved of the four, although small pin holes can be seen in the parchment from where it was once pinned up. The handwriting on this version is different from that of the other three, suggesting that it was not written by a royal scribe but rather by a member of the cathedral staff, who then had it exemplified by the royal court.\n\nOther early versions of the charters survive today. Only one exemplification of the 1216 charter survives, held in Durham Cathedral. Four copies of the 1217 charter exist; three of these are held by the Bodleian Library in Oxford and one by Hereford Cathedral. Hereford's copy is occasionally displayed alongside the Mappa Mundi in the cathedral's chained library and has survived along with a small document called the \"Articuli super Cartas\" that was sent along with the charter, telling the sheriff of the county how to observe the conditions outlined in the document. One of the Bodleian's copies was displayed at San Francisco's California Palace of the Legion of Honor in 2011.\n\nFour exemplifications of the 1225 charter survive: the British Library holds one, which was preserved at Lacock Abbey until 1945; Durham Cathedral also holds a copy, with the Bodleian Library holding a third. The fourth copy of the 1225 exemplification was held by the museum of the Public Record Office and is now held by The National Archives. The Society of Antiquaries also holds a draft of the 1215 charter (discovered in 2013 in a late 13th-century register from Peterborough Abbey), a copy of the 1225 third re-issue (within an early 14th-century collection of statutes) and a roll copy of the 1225 reissue.\n\nOnly two exemplifications of Magna Carta are held outside England, both from 1297. One of these was purchased in 1952 by the Australian Government for £12,500 from King's School, Bruton, England. This copy is now on display in the Members' Hall of Parliament House, Canberra. The second was originally held by the Brudenell family, earls of Cardigan, before they sold it in 1984 to the Perot Foundation in the United States, which in 2007 sold it to U.S. businessman David Rubenstein for US$21.3 million. Rubenstein commented \"I have always believed that this was an important document to our country, even though it wasn't drafted in our country. I think it was the basis for the Declaration of Independence and the basis for the Constitution\". This exemplification is now on permanent loan to the National Archives in Washington, D.C. Only two other 1297 exemplifications survive, one of which is held in the UK's National Archives, the other in the Guildhall, London.\n\nSeven copies of the 1300 exemplification by Edward I survive, in Faversham, Oriel College, Oxford, the Bodleian Library, Durham Cathedral, Westminster Abbey, the City of London (held in the archives at the London Guildhall) and Sandwich (held in the Kent County Council archives). The Sandwich copy was rediscovered in early 2015 in a Victorian scrapbook in the town archives of Sandwich, Kent, one of the Cinque Ports. In the case of the Sandwich and Oriel College exemplifications, the copies of the Charter of the Forest originally issued with them also survive.\n\nMost of the 1215 charter and later versions sought to govern the feudal rights of the Crown over the barons. Under the Angevin kings, and in particular during John's reign, the rights of the King had frequently been used inconsistently, often in an attempt to maximise the royal income from the barons. Feudal relief was one way that a king could demand money, and clauses 2 and 3 fixed the fees payable when an heir inherited an estate or when a minor came of age and took possession of his lands. Scutage was a form of medieval taxation; all knights and nobles owed military service to the Crown in return for their lands, which theoretically belonged to the King, but many preferred to avoid this service and offer money instead; the Crown often used the cash to pay for mercenaries. The rate of scutage that should be payable, and the circumstances under which it was appropriate for the King to demand it, was uncertain and controversial; clauses 12 and 14 addressed the management of the process.\n\nThe English judicial system had altered considerably over the previous century, with the royal judges playing a larger role in delivering justice across the country. John had used his royal discretion to extort large sums of money from the barons, effectively taking payment to offer justice in particular cases, and the role of the Crown in delivering justice had become politically sensitive among the barons. Clauses 39 and 40 demanded due process be applied in the royal justice system, while clause 45 required that the King appoint knowledgeable royal officials to the relevant roles. Although these clauses did not have any special significance in the original charter, this part of Magna Carta became singled out as particularly important in later centuries. In the United States, for example, the Supreme Court of California interpreted clause 45 in 1974 as establishing a requirement in common law that a defendant faced with the potential of incarceration be entitled to a trial overseen by a legally trained judge.\nRoyal forests were economically important in medieval England and were both protected and exploited by the Crown, supplying the King with hunting grounds, raw materials, and money. They were subject to special royal jurisdiction and the resulting forest law was, according to the historian Richard Huscroft, \"harsh and arbitrary, a matter purely for the King's will\". The size of the forests had expanded under the Angevin kings, an unpopular development.\n\nThe 1215 charter had several clauses relating to the royal forests; clauses 47 and 48 promised to deforest the lands added to the forests under John and investigate the use of royal rights in this area, but notably did not address the forestation of the previous kings, while clause 53 promised some form of redress for those affected by the recent changes, and clause 44 promised some relief from the operation of the forest courts. Neither Magna Carta nor the subsequent Charter of the Forest proved entirely satisfactory as a way of managing the political tensions arising in the operation of the royal forests.\n\nSome of the clauses addressed wider economic issues. The concerns of the barons over the treatment of their debts to Jewish moneylenders, who occupied a special position in medieval England and were by tradition under the King's protection, were addressed by clauses 10 and 11. The charter concluded this section with the phrase \"debts owing to other than Jews shall be dealt with likewise\", so it is debatable to what extent the Jews were being singled out by these clauses. Some issues were relatively specific, such as clause 33 which ordered the removal of all fishing weirs—an important and growing source of revenue at the time—from England's rivers.\n\nThe role of the English Church had been a matter for great debate in the years prior to the 1215 charter. The Norman and Angevin kings had traditionally exercised a great deal of power over the church within their territories. From the 1040s onwards successive popes had emphasised the importance of the church being governed more effectively from Rome, and had established an independent judicial system and hierarchical chain of authority. After the 1140s, these principles had been largely accepted within the English church, even if accompanied by an element of concern about centralising authority in Rome.\n\nThese changes brought the customary rights of lay rulers such as John over ecclesiastical appointments into question. As described above, John had come to a compromise with Pope Innocent III in exchange for his political support for the King, and clause 1 of Magna Carta prominently displayed this arrangement, promising the freedoms and liberties of the church. The importance of this clause may also reflect the role of Archbishop Langton in the negotiations: Langton had taken a strong line on this issue during his career.\n\nOnly three clauses of Magna Carta still remain on statute in England and Wales. These clauses concern 1) the freedom of the English Church, 2) the \"ancient liberties\" of the City of London (clause 13 in the 1215 charter, clause 9 in the 1297 statute), and 3) a right to due legal process (clauses 39 and 40 in the 1215 charter, clause 29 in the 1297 statute). In detail, these clauses (using the numbering system from the 1297 statute) state that:\n\n\n\n\nGovernment Magna Carta websites\nTexts\nVideo\n"}
{"id": "58090936", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58090936", "title": "Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India", "text": "Navtej Singh Johar v. Union of India\n\nNavtej Singh Johar versus Union of India Secretary Ministry of Law and Justice is a landmark decision of the Supreme Court of India in 2018 that decriminalised all consensual sex among adults in private, including homosexual sex.\n\nThe court was asked to determine the constitutionality of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code, a colonial-era law which among others criminalised homosexual acts as an \"unnatural offence\". On 6 September 2018, the court unanimously declared the law unconstitutional \"in so far as it criminalises consensual sexual conduct between adults of the same sex\". Portions of Section 377 relating to sex with minors, non-consensual sexual acts such as rape, and bestiality remain in force.\n\nOn 27 April 2016, five people from the LGBT community filed a new writ petition in the Supreme Court challenging the constitutionality of Section 377 of the Indian Penal Code. The petitioners claimed that the issues which they raised in their petition were varied and diverse from those raised in the pending curative petition in the 2013 \"Koushal v. Naz\" case, in which the Supreme Court had upheld the constitutionality of Section 377. The \"Naz\" case was earlier referred to a five-judge bench in order to decide whether the curative petition could be accepted for consideration. The petitioners were dancer Navtej Singh Johar, journalist Sunil Mehra, chef Ritu Dalmia, hoteliers Aman Nath and Keshav Suri, and businesswoman Ayesha Kapur. Specifically, it happened to be the first case where the petitioners had argued that they had all been directly aggrieved because of Section 377 alleging it to be a direct violation of fundamental rights. In a survey conducted by the Centre for the Study of Developing Societies and Konrad-Adenauer-Stiftung, only 25% of Indian youth approved of a homosexual relationship in April 2017.\n\nThe petition was placed before Justice S. A. Bobde and Justice A. K. Bhushan on 29 June 2016 where an order was passed to post the matter before the Chief Justice of India, Justice Dipak Misra for appropriate orders as the bench was apprised of the curative petition pending before the constitution bench. On 8 January 2018, the case (\"Navtej Singh Johar and others v. Union of India\") was listed to be heard by Chief Justice's bench which passed an order stating that the case will be heard by a constitution bench.\n\n\"Taking all the aspects in a cumulative manner, we are of the view, the decision in Suresh Kumar Kaushal's case (supra) requires re-consideration. As the question relates to constitutional issues, we think it appropriate to refer the matter to a larger Bench.\"\n\nThe matter was heard from 17 January 2018 by a five-judge constitution bench of the Supreme Court. On 10 July 2018, the SC commenced hearing of the pleas challenging the constitutionality of section 377. The bench ended its hearing on 17 July and reserved its verdict, asking for both sides to submit written submissions for their claims by 20 July.\n\nOn 6 September 2018, the court delivered its verdict, declaring portions of the law relating to consensual sexual acts between adults unconstitutional in a unanimous decision. This decision overturns the 2013 ruling in \"Suresh Kumar Koushal vs. Naz Foundation\" in which the court upheld the law. However, other portions of Section 377 relating to sex with minors, non-consensual sexual acts, and bestiality remain in force.\n\nThe court found that the criminalisation of sexual acts between consenting adults violated the right to equality guaranteed by the Constitution of India. While reading the judgment, Chief Justice Misra pronounced that the court found that \"[c]riminalising carnal intercourse\" to be \"irrational, arbitrary and manifestly unconstitutional\". The court ruled that LGBT people in India are entitled to all constitutional rights, including the liberties protected by the Constitution of India. This included \"the choice of whom to partner, the ability to find fulfilment in sexual intimacies and the right not to be subjected to discriminatory behaviour are intrinsic to the constitutional protection of sexual orientation\". The judgement also made note that LGBTs are entitled to an equal citizenship and protection under law, without discrimination.\n\nWhile the statute criminalises all anal sex and oral sex, including between opposite-sex couples, it has largely affected same-sex relationships. As such, the verdict was hailed as a landmark decision for LGBT rights in India, with campaigners waiting outside the court cheering after the verdict was pronounced.\nThe Government of India, decided to abstain from the hearings and had left the matter to the \"[w]isdom of the [c]ourt\". \n\nThe largest constituent party of the National Democratic Alliance, a right-wing Hindu nationalist coalition, currently having a majority in the Lok Sabha (House of the People), the Bharatiya Janata Party (BJP), was one of the few parties which officially stayed silent on the verdict. Several party members did express their personal opinions on the subject, including the BJP spokesperson G. V. L. Narasimha Rao, who said that any decision on the matter \"takes in sync with the jurisprudential developments on gay rights the world over would be welcome\". Meanwhile, Subramanian Swamy, a Rajya Sabha (Council of the States) member of the BJP, attacked the decision, questioning if the court will legalise sexual intercourse with animals in the name of personal liberty. He was of the view that the decision could be overruled \"[i]f it leads to excesses, including paedophilia, gay bars, increase in HIV cases, etc.\" The Prime Minister of India, Narendra Modi, has a record of saying relatively little about LGBT rights compared to other socio-political issues, and refused to comment on the same.\n\nThe right-wing organisation Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh conveyed its agreement with the court's verdict as it didn't believe homosexuality was a crime, but did label the orientation as \"unnatural\". In January 2018, the BJP's coalition partner, the Shiv Sena had supported legalisation, with its member and a member of parliament in Lok Sabha for Mumbai South, Arvind Sawant Ganpat saying, \"They have the right to live the way they want. What can we say on it.\"\n\nThe largest opposition party in India, the Indian National Congress of the United Progressive Alliance, issued a statement welcoming the ruling. The organisation remarked that the judgement should bring about \"the beginning of a more equal and inclusive society\". This was in contrast to its previous objection in the same case in 2009 when it was in government during the initial Naz Foundation case, stating that gay sex was 'immoral' and that it cannot be decriminalised.\n\nIn terms of non-governmental organisations, the group Human Rights Watch welcomed what happened, with its South Asia director labelling the judgement as \"hugely significant\". Amnesty International also praised the ruling. The United Nations welcomed the judgement, hoping that it will be the first step towards guaranteeing the full range of fundamental rights to LGBTI persons.\n\nGlobal News suggested that similar colonial laws in South Asia, modelled on India's Section 377, could be declared unconstitutional following this verdict. The agency stated that the ruling \"emboldened activists in neighbouring countries\". In terms of LGBT rights in Sri Lanka, a similar law in that nation, which has not been enforced in decades, was declared unenforceable by its Supreme Court and is effectively dormant. However, differences in how constitutional matters are handled mean that the law cannot be removed without the consent of the electorate. Global News also noted that the nations of Bangladesh, Myanmar, and Pakistan face problems with LGBT people suffering from public discrimination, outside of the context of laws restricting homosexuality.\n\nSimon Chesterman, dean of the National University of Singapore Faculty of Law, congratulated India on the verdict in a Facebook post. In response to Chesterman's post, Singaporean diplomat Tommy Koh wrote on Facebook that Singaporean LGBT activists should take the opportunity to overturn Section 377A of the Penal Code, a position supported by Chief of Government Communications Janadas Devan. Later, on September 10, disc jockey and producer Johnson Ong Ming filed a lawsuit in court against Section 377A. However, Law and Home Affairs Minister K. Shanmugam stated that “[t]his issue relates to social mores, values - so can you impose viewpoints on a majority when it so closely relates to a social value system?”\n\n"}
{"id": "33844194", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=33844194", "title": "New Man (utopian concept)", "text": "New Man (utopian concept)\n\nThe New Man is a utopian concept that involves the creation of a new ideal human being or citizen replacing un-ideal human beings or citizens. The meaning of a New Man has widely varied and various alternatives have been suggested by a variety of religions and political ideologies, including Christianity, communism, classical liberalism, fascism, and utopian socialism.\n\nThe doctrines of Paul the Apostle speak of Adam both as the fallen \"Old Adam\" and a \"New Adam\" as referring collectively to the fallen Old Man of humanity and a resurrected \"New Man\" (Ephesians 2:15, The Holy Bible) following Jesus.\n\nPhilosopher Friedrich Nietzsche's concept of an \"Übermensch\" (\"Overman\") was that of a New Man who would be a leader by example to humanity through an existentialist will to power that was vitalist and irrationalist in nature. Nietzsche developed the concept in response to his view of the herd mentality of and inherent nihilism of Christianity, and the void in existential meaning that is realized with the death of God. The Übermensch emerges as the new meaning of the Earth, a norm-repudiating individual who overcomes himself and is the master in control of his impulses and passions.\n\nThomas Paine and William Godwin believed that the spread of liberalism in France and the United States constituted the birth of a New Man and a new era.\n\nUtopian socialists such as Henri de Saint-Simon, Charles Fourier and Robert Owen saw a future Golden Age led by a New Man who would reconstruct society.\n\nMarxism, though heavily critical of utopianism, postulates the development of a New Man and New Woman in a communist society following the values of a non-essential nature of the state and the importance of freely associated work for the affirmation of a person's humanity. Marxism does not see the New Man/Woman as a goal or prerequisite for achieving full communism, but rather as a product of the social conditions of pure communism. Che Guevara's essay \"Socialism and man in Cuba\" and Oscar Wilde's \"The Soul of Man under Socialism\" are two examples of the 'new man' archetype in socialist literature.\n\nFascism supports the creation of a New Man who is a figure of action, violence, and masculinity, committed as a component of a disciplined mass that has shorn itself of individualism. One example of this was the idea of the Political Soldier, which was developed by the leaders of the Official National Front in the UK in the 1980s and became part of the ideology of the Third Position.\n\nTranshumanism welcomes the creation of a literal \"new man\" by enhancements through cybernetics and other \"human enhancements\", and look to the singularity as that point in time when the new man arrives, his birthday if you will. Scholar Klaus Vondung argues that Transhumanism represents the final revolution. Others have made similar observations.\n\nThe poem \"The Unknown Citizen\" by W. H. Auden is considered a parody of attempts to honor (and hence, to encourage) a certain kind of behavior in modern society. It challenges the \"New Man\" ideologies listed here and deprecates the meme of encouraging conformity via societal pressure.\n"}
{"id": "34727286", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=34727286", "title": "North Kosovo referendum, 2012", "text": "North Kosovo referendum, 2012\n\nAn advisory referendum on accepting the institutions of the Republic of Kosovo was held in the Serb-dominated regions of North Kosovo on 14 and 15 February 2012. The referendum was held in Zubin Potok, Zvečan and Kosovska Mitrovica on both days, while Leposavić voted on 15 February. The voting ran from 7:00 to 19:00 on both days. 15 February is also symbolically Serbia's Statehood Day. The result saw 99.74% of voters reject the writ of the Republic of Kosovo's institutions. The poll was rejected by the governments of both Serbia and Kosovo.\n\nThough North Kosovo, as part of the Assembly of the Community of Municipalities of the Autonomous Province of Kosovo and Metohija, adheres to the United Nations Security Council Resolution 1244, it opposed the unilateral 2008 Kosovo declaration of independence (the Kosovo Serb enclaves are under the de facto jurisdiction of the institutions of the Republic of Serbia, though this is disputed by the Kosovan Assembly). The referendum was announced on December 25, 2011, by Kosovska Mitrovica Mayor Krstimir Pantić, to ascertain local opinion about the writ of the Republic of Kosovo's institutions.\n\nBoth the European Union and Serbia are against the referendum. Kosovan Serbs feared that Serbia opposed the referendum in order to win support for accession to the EU, part of a condition is to resolve the Kosovo dispute. The notion was however rejected by Serbian President Boris Tadic and the Minister of State for Kosovo Oliver Ivanovic. The parliament of Kosovo passed a motion declaring the referendum invalid.\n\nSimilarly, the Foreign Ministry of Albania expressed concern about holding a referendum organised by the Serbian parallel structures and that they claimed was inspired by Belgrade. It said that the referendum was not legal and would have no judicial effect, it would also allegedly not serve the interest of ethnic communities to socially, economically and politically integrate within Kosovo.\n\nMilan Ivanovic, the president of the Serbian National Council of North Kosovo, criticised Serbia proper for having failed in its Kosovo policy while sticking by the decision to democratically demonstrate the view of the Serbs of north Kosovo.\n\nThe Republic of Kosovo sought to impose its customs officials in the administrative border crossings with Serbia. Kosovar Serbs, seeking the removal of Republic of Kosovo customs officials, sought to erect roadblocks to make travel difficult for KFOR troops in the area that sought to maintain civil order.\n\nThe referendum was held in four municipalities with a Serbian majority in the north of Kosovo, with 35,500 eligible voters. Some of the voting papers were also in the Albanian language.\n\nThere were 82 voting stations: 13 in Kosovska Mitrovica, 11 in Zvečan, 25 in Zubin Potok, and 33 in Leposavić.\n\nAccording to Ljuba Radović, referendum commission's spokesman, there currently was no information on whether ethnic Albanians will take part in the referendum, though three villages (Žaža, Boljetin and Lipa) in the Zvečan municipality, which are of a Kosovar Albanian majority, have said that they will not take part.\n\nOn 1 March, the accession of Serbia to the European Union was given \"candidate status\" on the premise of progress over the Kosovo dispute (as well as other \"reforms\").\n\n"}
{"id": "306053", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=306053", "title": "Paternalism", "text": "Paternalism\n\nPaternalism is action limiting a person's or group's liberty or autonomy which is intended to promote their own good. Paternalism can also imply that the behavior is against or regardless of the will of a person, or also that the behavior expresses an attitude of superiority. Paternalism, paternalistic and paternalist have all been used as a pejorative.\n\nThe word paternalism is from the Latin \"pater\" \"father\" via the adjective \"paternus\" \"fatherly\", which in Medieval Latin became \"paternalis\". Some, such as John Stuart Mill, think paternalism to be appropriate towards children: \"It is, perhaps, hardly necessary to say that this doctrine is meant to apply only to human beings in the maturity of their faculties. We are not speaking of children, or of young persons below the age which the law may fix as that of manhood or womanhood.\" Paternalism towards adults is sometimes thought of as treating them as if they were children.\n\nSoft Paternalism is the view that paternalism is justified only if an action to be committed is involuntary. John Stuart Mill gives the example of a person about to walk across a damaged bridge. We can't tell the person the bridge is damaged as he doesn't speak your language. According to Soft paternalism would be justified in forcing him to not cross the bridge so we could find out whether he knows about the damage. If he knows and wants to jump off the bridge and commit suicide then we should allow him to. Hard paternalists say that at least sometimes we are entitled to prevent him from crossing the bridge and committing suicide.\n\nPure paternalism is paternalism where the person(s) having their liberty or autonomy taken away are those being protected. Impure paternalism occurs when the class of people whose liberty or autonomy is violated by some measure is wider than the group of persons thereby protected.\n\nMoral paternalism is where paternalism is justified to promote the moral well being of a person(s) even if their welfare wouldn't improve. For example, it would be argued that someone should be prevented from prostitution even if they make a decent living off it and their health is protected. A moral paternalist would argue that it is ethical considering prostitution is morally corrupting.\n\nThomas Pogge argues that there are a number of criteria for paternalism. \n\nIn his \"Two Treatises of Government\", John Locke argues (against Robert Filmer) that political and paternal power cannot be identified.\n\nJohn Stuart Mill opposes state paternalism on the grounds that individuals know their own good better than the state does, that the moral equality of persons demands respect for others' liberty, and that paternalism disrupts the development of an independent character. In \"On Liberty\" he writes:\n\n...the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilized community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others. His own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient warrant. He cannot rightfully be compelled to do or forbear because it will be better for him to do so, because it will make him happier, because, in the opinion of others, to do so would be wise, or even right.\n\nContemporary opponents of paternalism often appeal to the ideal of personal autonomy.\n\nIn the southern United States before the Civil War, paternalism was a concept used to justify the legitimacy of slavery. Women would present themselves as mothers for the slaves, or protectors that provided benefits the slaves would not get on their own. Plantation mistresses would attempt to civilize their workers by providing food, shelter, and affection. These women would justify that the conditions for freed blacks were poorer than those who were under the mistresses' protection. Paternalism was used as an argument against the emancipation of slavery due to these mistresses providing better living conditions than the enslaved's counterpart in the factory-based north. As a result of this conclusion, often the whites would manage basic rights of the enslaved such as child rearing and property.\n\nPaternalism was also used against Women's Suffrage, with opponents of women's suffrage saying that granting women the right to vote would make their lives harder and separate them from their families.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "43754990", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=43754990", "title": "People Just Do Nothing", "text": "People Just Do Nothing\n\nPeople Just Do Nothing is a British television mockumentary sitcom, created and performed by Allan Mustafa, Steve Stamp, Asim Chaudhry and Hugo Chegwin. The programme follows the lives of MC Grindah and DJ Beats, who run Kurupt FM, a pirate radio station broadcasting UK garage and drum and bass from Brentford in west London. The first series was released on BBC Three in July 2014, with the fifth and final series airing on BBC Two in 2018.\n\nIn 2017, the show won the BAFTA award and Royal Television Society award for Best Scripted Comedy. The four main actors have also formed a musical act that tours in character as \"Kurupt FM\".\n\n\"People Just do Nothing\" is a mockumentary, in which the characters give interviews to the camera and are taped in a loose, documentary fashion. An off-screen interviewer is occasionally heard. The \"documentary\" follows the fortunes of \"Kurupt FM\", a pirate radio station broadcasting UK Garage from a flat in Brentford, west London. The main characters are MC Grindah, DJ Beats, DJ Steves, and their entrepreneurial manager, Chabuddy G. The show follows their personal lives, with a strong focus on their relationships with their respective female partners such as Miche and Roche.\n\nAll of the characters have an inflated sense of their own talent and success; Steve Stamp, who portrays Steves, said \"A lot of talented people don’t have enough confidence, but then there’s a lot of stupid people with no talent who have loads of confidence ... All our characters are super confident; they’re just not good at what they do.\" The characters fail to recognise their lowly status, with Grindah regularly making comments like \"We're going global, but you will very much have to be in the Brentford area to hear us.\" The show plays off of their stupidity; Rachel Aroesti of \"The Guardian\" has said, \"Every character is really, quite comfortingly, dense, and their inability to read scenarios correctly is the source of nearly all the comedy.\" The show was summarised by Jamie Clifton of \"Vice\" as:\n\nThe four main actors were friends for years before they began making the show. They were brought together through Hugo Chegwin; he had known Steve Stamp since childhood, became friends with Asim Chaudhry at college, and met Allan Mustafa through a mutual friend. They all had experience DJing or MCing on pirate radio in their youth, and no ambition to be actors. Mustafa said, \"I rapped at the time, but we never really ended up making music. We just watched \"The Office\" a lot and smoked weed.\" In the late 2000s, Chegwin and Stamp had a \"fake garage crew\" on a real station called KuruptFM. Chegwin and Mustafa began creating characters and filming them, and were further inspired when they watched the BBC documentary series \"Tower Block Dreams\", about London's underground music scene, and found the participants amusing. MC Grindah was based on a pirate radio boss from the series. Stamp and Chaudhry became involved, and the foursome began improvising material and putting it on YouTube under the name \"Wasteman TV\". \n\nThe YouTube videos were seen by producer Jon Petrie, who worked with Ash Atalla – a former producer for \"The Office\" – at Roughcut TV. Petrie later explained, \"It wasn't fully-formed, but the more you watched it, the more you could see there was proper detail to the characters. I had no idea about garage, really, but I just loved them as comic creations.\" Atalla arranged to produce a pilot episode for BBC Three, released in August 2012. The pilot was the most shared video on iPlayer that month, and the BBC ordered a full series.\n\nMany journalists have commented that the show is heavily influenced by \"The Office\". David Renshaw has said, \"At times, Grindah’s delusion in relation to his own success, talent and likeability is a mortifying dance away from full David Brent.\" Chabuddy G has been described as \"an Asian Del Boy\", of \"Only Fools and Horses\". The actors have named their primary influences as \"The Office\", \"This is Spinal Tap\", Alan Partridge, Ali G, Laurel and Hardy, and Mike Leigh.\n\nWriting credits go to Allan Mustafa and Steve Stamps, but the cast are given freedom to improvise their dialogue and sometimes film scenes spontaneously. By the third series, Mustafa estimated that material was \"70/30 percent improvised\". Chaudhry explained, \"When you've been doing a character for six years, you can just snap into it – you know how they'd react in any situation\", adding that he is continuously inspired by his father, \"because he's like a real Chabuddy G, just not as ridiculous\". The dialogue is often heavy with 21st century London slang. Much of the filming took place at Chesterton Court on the South Acton housing estate, before it was demolished. Series three was shot in Peckham, south-east London. All locations are based on the Haverfield Estate in Brentford, where Chegwin and Stamps grew up.\n\n<onlyinclude>\n</onlyinclude>\n\n\"People Just do Nothing\" has received positive reviews. After the release of the first series, Alex Fletcher of \"Digital Spy\" called it \"the best British comedy in years\", and lamented that few people were aware of its \"comedic genius\". He added, \"it packs in more genuine belly laughs in one episode than most recent sitcoms have done in their full lifetime, and [has] nailed that quintessential British sense of humour where we're able to laugh at our own humiliating inadequacies ... it feels like it belongs in the company of modern comedy greats such as \"The Office\", \"Peep Show\" and \"Phoenix Nights\".\" Gerard O'Donovan of \"The Telegraph\" gave the pilot episode four stars out of five, and said, \"Entertaining, and absolutely of its time, \"People Just Do Nothing\" certainly serves up some good laughs and I look forward to the next three parts.\"\n\nFor the second series, David Renshaw of \"The Guardian\" said it was \"a welcome return from the gang\", and commented \"Despite its larger-than-life characters, \"People Just Do Nothing\"’s success lies in its believability ... You get the feeling that if you drove out to Brentford you might actually run in to them.\" He especially praised the comedy provided by DJ Steves and Chabuddy G. Rachel Aroesti, also of \"The Guardian\", said \"the episode where Grindah panics after taking a pill at his club night has good claim to be the comic highlight of 2015\".\n\nAroesti gave the third series a highly positive review: \"In an age of bleak comedy that barely makes you snigger, one show has been keeping up the lost art of making people laugh – the hilarious, half-witted pirate radio mockumentary.\" She added, \"[the show] is not an old-fashioned sitcom by any stretch – it’s understated, meta and set in a niche subculture – but it is truly traditional in its comedy: beats are hit and joke quotas filled, scene in, scene out.\" She appreciated that the series also \"decided to go for the dramatic jugular. The final episode of this series offered fans a precious opportunity to laugh and cry at exactly the same time ... By making you care about the characters (even the monstrosity that is MC Grindah – a David Brent with malicious intent), viewers will now have two reasons for tuning in.\"\n\nThe show started life in 2010 as \"Wasteman TV\", a YouTube series that was filmed and edited by Asim Chaudhry (Chabuddy G)\nbefore the BBC commissioned a pilot on 17 August 2012, which became the most shared iPlayer show for the month. A four-part series was eventually commissioned, which first aired on iPlayer in July 2014, then on terrestrial television the following month. A second series, of five episodes, aired in July 2015. \n\nIn October 2015, the BBC announced it had commissioned a third and fourth series of \"People Just Do Nothing\", both consisting of six 30-minute episodes. The BBC confirmed Series 3 & 4 would initially be available on the new online BBC Three and later screened on BBC Two. \n\nEpisode one of series three premiered on BBC iPlayer on 17 August 2016. Episodes of series three were released weekly on iPlayer and then broadcast the following week on BBC Two. Series four began on iPlayer on 15 August 2017, and was also broadcast on BBC One on Saturday evenings.\n\nIn Australia, the series premiered on 12 August 2015 on Channel [V]. In the US, the show premiered on Viceland on February 2, 2017.. The show was also added to Netflix US in May 2017.\n\nIn March 2017 the cast appeared alongside musician Ed Sheeran in a spoof music video for the charity Comic Relief on BBC One. \n\nThe DVD of the first three series was released in November 2016. The boxset included specially recorded commentaries from the first two series and unseen extra footage.\n\nThe four main actors, along with \"Decoy\" and \"Fantasy\", tour nightclubs and music venues as \"Kurupt FM\", where they appear in character. They have also played music festivals including Glastonbury and Reading and Leeds. Mustafa said in 2016, \"We all wanted to be musicians when we were younger. So now, in a way, it's like we're living out what we didn't get to do, playing all these festivals. We get two sick jobs: we get to film and we get to fuck around on stage and be headliners.\" Stamp added, \"And because we're in character, we can sort of get away with whatever. Like my shit mixing; it's because I'm Steves, not because I'm a shit DJ.\" On-stage guests have included grime artists Stormzy and Big Narstie.\n\n"}
{"id": "27502412", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27502412", "title": "Protective laws", "text": "Protective laws\n\nProtective laws were enacted to protect women from certain hazards or difficulties of paid work. These laws had the effect of reducing the employment available to women, saving it for men. These were enacted in many U.S. jurisdictions and some were in effect until the mid or late 20th century. The landmark case \"Muller v. Oregon\" set a precedent to use sex differences as a basis for separate legislation.\n\nThe name is not a formal one, but is a widely used colloquial term, as was the term \"protective legislation\".\n\nOver a thousand laws affected work hours, wages, occupational choice, mandatory seating, homework, and rights to do business and make contracts. Specifically, various laws required a minimum wage for women and children (criticized because women allegedly did not need the money, the minimum wage was opposed for men and ruled unlawful in 1923) and forbade or regulated lifting heavy loads, working at night or for long hours, or tending bar and required some safety and breaks from work for rest, lunch, and bathroom use. The ban on long hours often denied the possibility of earning overtime pay. Some of the laws were irrelevant to work but were intended to protect women's ability to become mothers and not be subject to sexual issues often categorized as moral issues.\n\nProtection of women was a rationale for the enactment of the laws. Women were considered more vulnerable than men in factories and sweatshops, and one supporter of the laws was the Amalgamated Clothing Workers, a labor organization, which supported the laws for nonmembers of unions. Some supporters in unions and women's organizations, concerned that courts in the 1950s would oppose pro-labor legislation generally, wanted to preserve whatever such laws were already in place. By 1972, however, the year the Equal Rights Amendment (ERA) to the U.S. Constitution passed the Congress and was proposed to the states for ratification, unions supported the ERA and considered female-only protective laws as against women's interests.\n\nAnother rationale was put forth by an organization which, in 1836, adopted a resolution that said, \"Whereas, Labor is a physical and moral injury to women and a \"competitive menace to men\", we recommend legislation to restrict women in industry.\"\n\nThe minimum wage was supported except for men because of \"widespread agreement that the labor market did not function effectively where women and the family were concerned\" and among feminists because women needed to support their own dependents.\n\nThey were criticized on several grounds.\n\nProtective labor laws were criticized because they excluded women from prestigious, well-paid male-dominated occupations and confined women's work to the home, thus reinforcing Separate Spheres ideology and the Cult of Domesticity.\n\nAn opponent of these laws was the National Woman's Party (NWP), which, at the time, led support for the Equal Rights Amendment. The NWP opposed the laws as interfering with women's right to make contracts and as preventing them from offering their full capabilities at work, objecting, for example, to a 20-pound limit on lifting, if a woman wanted that job and could lift the weight.\n\nEventually, most or all were amended, repealed, ruled unconstitutional (i.e., in violation of the U.S. Constitution and thus invalid), or not enforced anymore because they singled women out for unequal treatment. (Laws in the U.S. may not be enforced if they are unconstitutional or otherwise unauthorized in law.) Had the Equal Rights Amendment to the Constitution been enacted in the 1970s–1980s, it was believed these laws would have been invalidated by the amendment and subsequent litigation and, as a result, most liberal organizations opposed the Amendment. The laws had been supported by social feminists for decades previously.\n\nSome of the laws have been replaced by laws that apply to both genders, such as the Occupational Safety and Health Act.\n\nAn argument for protective laws still sometimes arises, as with debates over the U.S. military's continuing legal ban on women in certain combat positions, when it is argued that the ban should remain in effect because women might be killed or raped.\n\nNations other than the U.S., in modern times, may have laws with comparable intent or effect and that constrain employment of women or of other groups of adults defined by characteristics at birth, although the laws may not be called by the same name.\n\nIn Egypt, in c. the 1920s, the Egyptian Feminist Union advocated for protective legislation.\n\n"}
{"id": "58216160", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=58216160", "title": "Revenue stamps of Northern Ireland", "text": "Revenue stamps of Northern Ireland\n\nRevenue stamps of Northern Ireland refer to the various revenue or fiscal stamps, whether adhesive, directly embossed or otherwise, which were issued by and used in Northern Ireland, a constituent country of the United Kingdom. From 1774, various revenue stamps of Ireland were used throughout both Northern and Southern Ireland, while revenue stamps of the United Kingdom were also used to pay for some taxes and fees.\n\nUpon the partition of Ireland in 1921, separate revenue stamps began to be issued for both Northern Ireland and Southern Ireland. The latter were withdrawn soon afterwards upon the establishment of the Provisional Government, but the former continued to issue revenue stamps until the late 20th century. The need for separate issues for Northern Ireland came about since taxes raised there were meant to remain in the country. Most Northern Irish revenue stamps were British key types with appropriate inscriptions, but there were a number of different issues as well.\n\nThe vast majority of Northern Ireland revenue stamps were British key types additionally inscribed \"NORTHERN IRELAND\". In 1921, stamps were issued for Bankruptcy, Civil Service, Companies Registration, Contract Note, County Courts, Estate Duty, Foreign Bill, Judicature, Land Commission, Land Registry, Official Arbitration, Petty Sessions (including overprints for Dog Licence) and Registration of Deeds.\n\nMost of the 1921 issues depicted the reigning monarch, King George V, but some Contract Note and Petty Sessions stamps depicting King Edward VII were also issued, since they were printed on older stocks. \n\nLater issues depicted the then-current monarch, King George VI and later Queen Elizabeth II. Until 1950, Registration of Deeds stamps simply inscribed \"IRELAND\" were still being issued, but these were only valid in Northern Ireland. Upon decimalization in 1971, stamps were issued for Bankruptcy, Contract Note, County Court, Dog Licence, Judicature Fee, Land Registry, Petty Sessions and Registration of Deeds. These were withdrawn gradually, for example Dog Licence stamps were discontinued in 1983.\n\nApart from key types, Northern Ireland also issued overprints on a few British or Irish issues. In the 1920s, overprints were produced on British Excise stamps and Foreign Bill key types, as well as on Irish Dog Licence stamps depicting the Irish wolfhound. In the 1960s and 1970s, many National Insurance stamps of Great Britain were also overprinted.\n\nA set of excise stamps depicting the Red Hand of Ulster were also issued in around the 1930s. These were the only adhesive revenues which had a distinctive design specifically used for Northern Ireland.\n\nA number of impressed duty stamps were used in Northern Ireland, including both general-duty issues and those for specific purposes. Many of these bore both symbols typical of impressed stamps of the United Kingdom such as the Tudor Crown, along with exclusively Irish symbols such as the shamrock. Some issues depicted the royal coat of arms of the United Kingdom or the Red Hand of Ulster.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15029435", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15029435", "title": "Revolving door (politics)", "text": "Revolving door (politics)\n\nIn politics, the \"revolving door\" is a movement of personnel between roles as legislators and regulators, on one hand, and members of the industries affected by the legislation and regulation, on the other. It has also been used to refer to the constant switching and ousting of political leaders from offices such as the Prime Minister of Australia and Japan\n\nIn some cases, the roles are performed in sequence, but in certain circumstances they may be performed at the same time. Political analysts claim that an unhealthy relationship can develop between the private sector and government, based on the granting of reciprocated privileges to the detriment of the nation, and can lead to regulatory capture.\n\nGovernments hire industry professionals for their private sector experience, their influence within corporations that the government is attempting to regulate or do business with, and in order to gain political support (donations and endorsements) from private firms.\n\nIndustry, in turn, hires people out of government positions to gain personal access to government officials, seek favorable legislation/regulation and government contracts in exchange for high-paying employment offers, and get inside information on what is going on in government.\n\nThe lobbying industry is especially affected by the revolving door concept, as the main asset for a lobbyist is contacts with and influence on government officials. This industrial climate is attractive for ex-government officials. It can also mean substantial monetary rewards for the lobbying firms and government projects and contracts in the hundreds of millions for those they represent.\n\nRegulation relating to this phenomenon and the related issues of lobbying and the funding of political parties varies considerably around the world. Here are details for a few sample jurisdictions:-\n\nIn Australia, this is of significant public debate as many state leaders have become private consultants for corporations. There is no legislation against doing so.\n\nAccording to a report by Transparency International - EU Office, which analysed the career paths of 485 former Members of the European Parliament and 27 former European Commissioners, the revolving door phenomenon is present at the EU level as well. The report \"Access All Areas\" finds that 30% of the 161 MEPs who left politics for other employment were employed by organisations which were registered on the EU Transparency Register at the start of 2017. At the same time, the report found that 15 out of 27 Commissioners who finished their service in 2014 entered employment with organisations on the EU lobby register after the end of their 18-month cooling-off period. The report also notes that the regulatory framework surrounding the revolving door phenomenon in the European Union could be improved by a stronger ethics framework, notably an independent ethics body which would decide which professional activities are subject to a conflict of interest. \n\nA law in the penal code of France governing public officials who move between the public and private sectors requires a three-year wait between working in the government and taking a job in the private sector.\n\nThe appointment of Leung Chin-man as executive director of New World China Land in 2008 led to much controversy. Leung was previously a senior civil servant and administrative officer in charge of lands. His appointment as an executive director of a subsidiary of a land developer led to allegations of collusion of interests and delayed interests. He resigned after two weeks, and the territory's Legislative Council had, for years, an inquiry into the matter.\n\n is the institutionalized practice where Japanese senior bureaucrats retire to high-profile positions in the private and public sectors. The practice was increasingly viewed as corrupt and a drag on unfastening the ties between private sector and state which prevent economic and political reforms.\n\nIn April 2007, a law to phase out amakudari prohibits ministries from attempting to place bureaucrats in industry with implementation in 2009. However, the law also removed a two-year ban that prevented retiring officials from taking jobs with companies with which they had official dealings during the five years before retirement.\n\nThe term's literal meaning, \"descent from heaven,\" refers to the descent of the Shinto gods from heaven to earth; the modern usage employs it as a metaphor, where \"heaven\" refers to the upper echelons of the civil service, the civil servants are the deities, and the earth is the private-sector corporations\nIn amakudari, senior civil servants retire to join organizations linked with or under the jurisdiction of their ministries or agencies when they reach mandatory retirement age, usually between 50 and 60 in the public service. The former officials may collude with their former colleagues to help their new employers secure government contracts, avoid regulatory inspections and generally secure preferential treatment from the bureaucracy.\n\nAmakudari may also be a reward for preferential treatment provided by officials to their new employers during their term in the civil service. Some government organisations are said to be expressly maintained for the purpose of hiring retiring bureaucrats and paying them high salaries at taxpayers' expense.\n\nIn the strictest meaning of amakudari, bureaucrats retire into private companies. In other forms bureaucrats move into government corporations (yokosuberi or 'sideslip'), are granted successive public and private sector appointments (wataridori or 'migratory bird') or may become politicians, including becoming members of parliament (seikai tenshin).\n\nPolitical scientists have identified amakudari as a central feature of Japan's political and economic structure. The practice is thought to bind private and public sector in a tight embrace and prevent political and economic change.\n\nAmakudari is widespread in many branches of the Japanese government but is currently subject to government efforts to regulate the practice. Pressure to reduce amakudari retirement to corporations may be leading to an increase in bureaucrats retiring to other public sector organisations instead.\n\nAmakudari was a minor issue before World War II since government officials could be outplaced to a large number of industrial organization that were nationalized. However, reforms during the Occupation of Japan eliminated most of these nationalized organizations resulting in a need to outplace individuals to the private sector. Such outplacement is inevitable in a personnel system where traditional Confucian values prevent one who entered the organization at the same time as another to become his subordinate\n\nA 1990 study suggested that amakudari retirements to large companies by bureaucrats from prominent ministries, such as the Ministry of Finance, had peaked in 1985 but that the practice was on the increase by bureaucrats from other types of government organisations such as the National Tax Agency. As a result, the percentage of former bureaucrats on the boards of private-sector listed companies had remained stable at 2%.\n\nA series of scandals in the mid-1990s focused the media spotlight on amakudari. In the 1994 general contracting (\"zenekon\") scandal, corruption was uncovered among bureaucrats associated with building contractors, leading to the jailing of high-ranking politician Shin Kanemaru for tax evasion. In the mortgage scandal of 1996, Japanese housing lenders went on a lending spree and racked up bad debts worth 6 trillion yen ($65.7 billion) sparking a financial crisis. The industry was supposed to be regulated by the Ministry of Finance, but the presence of its former officials in top jobs at the lenders is thought to have deflected oversight.\n\nIt wasn't until the next decade that Japanese prime ministers responded with policies to limit amakudari, although it is unclear whether these policies are having any effect. In July 2002, Prime Minister Junichiro Koizumi ordered that strict \"amakudari\" be ended, because of its association with corruption between business and politics. Koizumi's successor, Prime Minister Shinzo Abe enacted new rules as part of a policy pledge to completely eradicate amakudari in 2007, but his reforms were criticised as toothless (see below) and a campaign ploy for Upper House elections in July 2007.\n\nWhile policy has focused on limiting amakudari to private companies, the number of bureaucrats retiring to jobs at other government organisations (\"yokosuberi\" or \"sideslip\") has surged reaching 27,882 appointments in 2006 up 5,789 on the previous year. These organisations, numbering 4,576, received 98 percent of the expenses for state projects without being subject to the bidding processes faced by private companies.\n\nOver 50 years ending in 2010, 68 high-level government bureaucrats have taken jobs with electricity suppliers after retirement from their government positions. In 2011, 13 retired government bureaucrats were employed in senior positions in Japanese electric utilities.\n\nAmakudari is subject to rules which were revised in April 2007 in response to corruption scandals. Under the new rules, ministries are instructed to slowly stop helping bureaucrats land new jobs over three years starting in 2009. Instead, a job center to be set up by the end of 2008 would take on the role, and government agencies and ministries will be prohibited from brokering new jobs for retirees.\n\nHowever, the law removed a two-year ban that prevented retiring officials from taking jobs with companies with which they had official dealings during the five years before retirement, which may increase amakudari. It also left considerable loopholes, including not placing restrictions on \"watari\" in which retired bureaucrats move from one organization to another. Bureaucrats could retire to a job at another government agency, and then switch jobs to a private company later. Critics say that the government could better prevent Amakudari by raising the retirement age for bureaucrats above 50.\n\nIn October 2006, 339 public entities were violating the guidelines concerning amakudari, a figure 38 times higher than the number for the previous year. This declined to 166 by July 2007.\n\nAs well as scandals, the effects of amakudari have been documented by a sizable body of research.\n\nSome studies find that amakudari promotes more risky business activities. A 2001 study found that banks with amakudari employees were found to behave \"less\" prudently the more retired civil servants they employed (measured by the capital-asset ratio, an indicator of the prudential behaviour of banks).\n\nMany studies find that companies with amakudari employees are subjected to less oversight by public agencies. Around 70 percent of public contracts awarded to organisations that employed hired retired bureaucrats through amakudari were given without a bidding process in 2005. The contracts were worth a total 233 billion yen. By contrast 18 percent of private companies that didn't have ex-bureaucrats on the payroll got contracts without bidding.\n\nThere is no major legislation against revolving door practices in New Zealand, but some \"ad hoc\" provisions exist in relation to certain industries. For example, a scandal in which MP Taito Phillip Field was jailed for corruption in relation to improper use of his government position to benefit from helping people with immigration applications was influential in the creation of a restraint of trade clause in the Immigration Advisers Licensing Act 2007. The Act prohibits Ministers of Immigration, Associate Ministers of Immigration and immigration officials from becoming a licensed immigration adviser for one year after leaving government employment.\n\nThe movement of senior civil servants and government ministers into business roles is overseen by the Advisory Committee on Business Appointments (ACOBA), but it is not a statutory body and has only advisory powers. The Channel Four Dispatches programme 'Cabs for Hire', broadcast in early 2010, which showed several sitting members of Parliament and former ministers offering their influence and contacts in an effort to get lobbying jobs, has generated renewed concern about this issue. A Transparency International UK report on the subject, published in May 2011, called for ACOBA to be replaced by a statutory body with greater powers to regulate the post-public employment of former ministers and crown servants. It also argued that the committee should be more representative of society.\n\n\"Under current law, government officials who make contracting decisions must either wait a year before joining a military contractor or, if they want to switch immediately, must start in an affiliate or division unrelated to their government work. One big loophole is that these restrictions do not apply to many high-level policy makers..., who can join corporations or their boards without waiting.\" \nExamples of individuals who have moved between roles in this way in sensitive areas include Dick Cheney (military contracting), Linda Fisher (pesticide and biotech), Philip Perry (homeland security), Pat Toomey, Dan Coats, and former FCC commissioner Meredith Attwell Baker (media lobbying). High-profile Democratic Representative Dick Gephardt left office to become a lobbyist and his lobbying agency, Gephardt Government Affairs Group, earned close to $7 million in revenues in 2010 from clients including Goldman Sachs, Boeing, Visa Inc., Ameren Corporation, and Waste Management Inc..\n\nIn 2015, after a six-year position as US Attorney General, Eric Holder returned to his partnership position at Covington & Burling, a Wall Street law firm representing major banks and financial institutions.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2002938", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2002938", "title": "Settlement conference", "text": "Settlement conference\n\nA settlement conference is a meeting between opposing sides of a lawsuit at which the parties attempt to reach a mutually agreeable resolution of their dispute without having to proceed to a trial. Such a conference may be initiated through either party, usually by the conveyance of a settlement offer; or it may be ordered by the court as a precedent (preliminary step) to holding a trial. Each party, the plaintiff and the defendant, is usually represented at the \"settlement conference\" by their own counsel or attorney. Conferences are frequently conducted by a judge or other neutral party, in the form of a mediation.\n\nIn many courts in the common law system, a case conference may be used to settle a case.\n\nIn some courts, the rules require that before certain types of motions or petitions will be heard by the judge, the lawyers must \"meet and confer\" to try to resolve the matter.\n\nOn December 1, 2008, the New York State Unified Court System began sending notices to borrowers in default who have high cost mortgages, whose mortgages were being foreclosed prior to September 1, 2008, offering voluntary settlement conferences. Borrowers with high cost mortgages whose mortgages entered or are entering into foreclosure from September 2008 on, will be required to attend a mandatory settlement conference prior to foreclosure proceedings. High cost loans are considered to have excessive fees, risk-based sub-prime percentage rates, negative amortizing payment options, and other features which may or may not be considered predatory lending practices.\n\nOn December 15, 2009, Governor David Paterson signed into law an expanded version of the mandatory settlement conference legislation. Section 3408 of the Civil Practice Law and Rules of New York now provides that the court shall hold a mandatory settlement conference for all loans for one to four family homes within sixty days following the date proof of service is filed with the county clerk. The new law also provides that both the defendant homeowner and the plaintiff lender negotiate in good faith during their mandated settlement conference. The plaintiff lender is required to have a representative or attorney appear at the settlement conference with the authority to fully negotiate and settle the matter.\n\nThe foreclosure proceedings are effectively stopped until the referee or judicial hearing officer (JHO) in the settlement conference determines that the settlement conferences are concluded, either because the parties have successfully modified the home loan or obtained some other foreclosure alternative or the referee has determined that one of the parties has not satisfied its requirements under the law. Settlement conferences do not produce formal dispositions but may facilitate loan modifications and stop foreclosure. The referee or JHO will make a recommendation to the judge overseeing the foreclosure proceedings once the settlement conference is concluded.\n\n"}
{"id": "5437780", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5437780", "title": "Sherbert v. Verner", "text": "Sherbert v. Verner\n\nSherbert v. Verner, 374 U.S. 398 (1963), was a case in which the Supreme Court of the United States held that the Free Exercise Clause of the First Amendment required the government to demonstrate both a compelling interest and that the law in question was narrowly tailored before it denied unemployment compensation to someone who was fired because her job requirements substantially conflicted with her religion.\n\nThe case established the \"Sherbert\" Test, requiring demonstration of such a compelling interest and narrow tailoring in all Free Exercise cases in which a religious person was substantially burdened by a law. The conditions are the key components of what is usually called strict scrutiny.\n\nIn 1990, the Supreme Court decided that the Sherbert Test, as a judicial constitutional analysis tool, was too broad when applied to all laws. With respect to religiously-neutral, generally-applicable laws that incidentally burden religious exercise, the Sherbert Test was eliminated in \"Employment Division v. Smith\". For laws that discriminate along religious/secular lines or neutral laws that are enforced in a discriminatory way, the components of the Sherbert Test are still appropriate constitutional tools for courts to use.\n\nIn response to the 1990 \"Smith\" decision, Congress created an enhanced version of the Sherbert Test as a statutory, rather than constitutional, right in the federal Religious Freedom Restoration Act (RFRA) of 1993. Its provisions were designed to apply broadly to all laws and regulations, both federal and state. Although Congress replaced the \"narrowly tailored\" constitutional requirement with a \"least restrictive means\" statutory requirement, the enhanced test is still referred to as the Sherbert Test.\n\nHowever, the Supreme Court held in \"City of Boerne v. Flores\" that the law was unconstitutional because its enhanced Sherbert Test, as a purported change in constitutional rights, could not be enforced against the states. It impermissibly interfered with the judiciary's sole power to interpret the Constitution. However, the ruling did not necessarily limit its effect on interpretation of federal statutes.\n\nIn 2000, Congress passed the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA) that applied only to federal laws Both laws contain the same language for an even further enhanced Sherbert Test, one that broadens the definition of substantial religious burden.\n\nThe Supreme Court has since relied on the statutory Sherbert Test to decide several prominent cases, including \"Burwell v. Hobby Lobby\", , and \"Gonzales v. O Centro Espírita Beneficente União do Vegetal,\" 546 U.S. 418 (2006).\n\nAdell Sherbert, a member of the Seventh-day Adventist Church, worked as a textile-mill operator. Two years after her conversion to that faith, her employer switched from a five-day to a six-day workweek, including Saturdays. Since according to her belief, God in Exodus 20:8-11 forbade working on Saturdays (seventh day is the Sabbath), she refused to work that day and was fired. Sherbert could not find any other work and applied for unemployment compensation. Her claim was denied, even though the state's ineligibility provisions exempted anyone, whether religious or not, \"for good cause.\" The Employment Security Commission's decision was affirmed by a state trial court and the South Carolina Supreme Court.\n\nThe Supreme Court in a 7-2 decision reversed the Commission and the lower courts, finding that, as applied, the government's denial of Sherbert's claim was an unconstitutional burden on the free exercise of her religion. The majority opinion effectively created the \"Sherbert\" Test, determining whether government action runs afoul of the Free Exercise Clause.\n\nBrennan, writing for the majority, stated that denial of Sherbert's unemployment claim represented a substantial burden upon her. Even if that burden took the form of denial of a privilege to unemployment compensation, instead of violating compensation she was entitled to by right, it still effectively impeded her free exercise of her religion. As Brennan wrote, \"to condition the availability of benefits upon this appellant's willingness to violate a cardinal principle of her religious faith effectively penalizes the free exercise of her constitutional liberties.\" Brennan dismissed the claim that his decision violated the Establishment Clause by establishing the Seventh-day Adventist religion. Finally, the majority opinion did not consider the Equal Protection argument, since it had already ruled in Sherbert's favor on First Amendment grounds.\n\nDouglas wrote separately to explain that the issue was not the degree of injury to Sherbert, but South Carolina's denial of unemployment on the basis of her beliefs. The issue was not individual action, but government action, and under what basis government could deny someone benefits.\n\nStewart concurred in the result, but not in the majority's reasoning. He did not dismiss the Establishment Clause issue as the majority did. Instead, he identified as a \"double-barreled dilemma\" between Free Exercise Clause protection of Sherbert's actions and — as it had been interpreted, wrongly in his view, by the court — Establishment Clause prohibition of such protection. He also disagreed with the majority's claim that a cited precedent, \"Braunfeld v. Brown\", was distinguishable from \"Sherbert\".\n\nHarlan, in a characteristically formalist reading of the relevant law, argued that the Commission denied Sherbert unemployment based on the same reason they might any secular claimant, that she was not \"available for work\" because of a private decision she had made. More centrally, he rejected the majority opinion, arguing that the Free Exercise Clause only required neutrality toward religion in this case, which would not include exempting Sherbert, though the Constitution would permit a legislature to create such an exemption.\n\nIn \"Sherbert\", the Court set out a three-prong test for courts to use in determining whether the government has violated an individual's constitutionally-protected right to the free exercise of religion.\n\n\nThe Supreme Court sharply curtailed the \"Sherbert\" Test in the 1980s, culminating in the 1990 landmark case \"Employment Division v. Smith\". In \"Smith\", the court held that free exercise exemptions were not required from generally applicable laws. In response to the \"Smith\" decision, Congress passed the Religious Freedom Restoration Act of 1993 (RFRA) to reinstate the \"Sherbert\" Test as a statutory right. RFRA purported to restore strict scrutiny analysis to all free exercise cases in which the plaintiff proves a substantial burden on the free exercise of his or her religion. However, four years later, the court struck down RFRA as applied to Constitutional interpretation. In \"City of Boerne v. Flores,\" 521 U.S. 507 (1997), the court found that RFRA, as applied to the states, exceeded Congress's power under Section 5 of the Fourteenth Amendment. But the ruling did not necessarily limit RFRA's effect on interpretation of federal statutes. Using a parliamentary procedure known as \"unanimous consent\", both the House and the Senate re-enacted RFRA's provisions in 2000, in conjunction with adding a similar statutory test to the Religious Land Use and Institutionalized Persons Act (RLUIPA).\n\nWithout addressing RFRA's constitutionality, the Supreme Court has held, in \"Gonzales v. UDV,\" 546 U.S. 418 (2006), that RFRA applies to other federal statutes. In \"UDV\", the court applied the statutory \"Sherbert\" Test created by RFRA and found that the conduct in question—use of a Schedule I drug in a religious ritual—was protected under the First Amendment.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2845596", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2845596", "title": "Staple Inn", "text": "Staple Inn\n\nStaple Inn is a Tudor building on the south side of High Holborn street in the City of London, London, England. Located near Chancery Lane tube station, it is used as the London venue for meetings of the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries, and is the last surviving Inn of Chancery. It was designated a grade I listed building in 1974.\n\nIt was originally attached to Gray's Inn, which is one of the four Inns of Court. The Inns of Chancery fell into decay in the 19th century. All of them were dissolved, and most were demolished. Staple Inn is the only one which survives largely intact. It was an extra-parochial area until 1858 and then a civil parish. It became part of the Metropolitan Borough of Holborn in 1900 and was abolished in 1930.\n\nOn 1 April 1994 boundary changes meant that the Inn was transferred from the London Borough of Camden to the City of London (and the City ward of Farringdon Without).\n\nIt was the model for the fictitious Inn of Court \"Bacon's Inn\" in Arthur Moore's 1904 novel 'Archers of the Long Bow'. The ancient switch-tailed double pump referred to was replaced in 1937 by a mock single pump, to mark the site.\n\nStaple Inn dates from 1585. The building was once the wool staple, where wool was weighed and taxed. It survived the Great Fire of London, was extensively damaged by a Nazi German Luftwaffe aerial bomb in 1944 but was subsequently restored. It has a distinctive timber-framed façade, cruck roof and an internal courtyard.\n\nThe historic interiors include a great hall, used by the Institute and Faculty of Actuaries. The ground floor street frontage is let to shops and restaurants, required to use plainer signage than they do on less sensitive buildings. This building will be familiar with those that smoke \"Old Holborn\" tobacco, as formerly it featured on tins and pouches of this product; this logo is no longer in use.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4091132", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4091132", "title": "Stop and identify statutes", "text": "Stop and identify statutes\n\n\"Stop and identify\" statutes are statutory laws in the United States that authorize police to legally obtain the identification of someone whom they reasonably suspect of having committed a crime. If there is no reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed, is being committed, or is about to be committed, an individual is not required to provide identification, even in \"Stop and ID\" states.\n\nThe Fourth Amendment to the United States Constitution prohibits unreasonable searches and seizures and requires any warrant to be judicially sanctioned and supported by probable cause. \"Terry v. Ohio\", established that it is constitutionally permissible for police to temporarily detain a person based on an articulable reasonable suspicion that a crime has been committed, and to conduct a patdown for weapons based on a reasonable belief that the person is armed. The question whether it is constitutionally permissible for the police to demand that a detainee provide his or her name was considered by the U.S. Supreme Court in \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\", , which held that the name disclosure did not violate the Fourth Amendment prohibition on unreasonable searches and seizures. The \"Hiibel\" case also held that, because Hiibel had no reasonable belief that his name would be used to incriminate him, the name disclosure did not violate the Fifth Amendment right against self-incrimination; however, the Court left open the possibility that Fifth Amendment right might apply in situations where there \"was\" a reasonable belief that giving a name could be incriminating. The Court accepted the Nevada supreme court interpretation of the Nevada statute that a detained person could satisfy the Nevada law by simply stating his name.\nThe Court did not rule on whether particular identification cards could be required, though it did mention one state law requiring \"credible and reliable\" identification had been struck down for vagueness.\n\nIn the United States, interactions between police and citizens fall into three general categories: consensual (\"contact\" or \"conversation\"), detention (often called a \"Terry\" stop, after \"Terry v. Ohio\", ), or arrest. \"Stop and identify\" laws pertain to detentions.\n\nDifferent obligations apply to drivers of motor vehicles, who generally are required by state vehicle codes to present a driver's license to police upon request.\n\nAt any time, police may approach a person and ask questions. The objective may simply be a friendly conversation; however, the police also may suspect involvement in a crime, but lack \"specific and articulable facts\"\nthat would justify a detention or arrest, and hope to obtain these facts from the questioning. The person approached is not required to identify himself or answer any other questions, and may leave at any time.\nPolice are not usually required to tell a person that he is free to decline to answer questions and go about his business;\nhowever, a person can usually determine whether the interaction is consensual by asking, \"Am I free to go?\"\n\nA person is detained when circumstances are such that a reasonable person would believe he is not free to leave.\n\nPolice may briefly detain a person if they have reasonable suspicion that the person has committed, is committing, or is about to commit a crime. Many state laws explicitly grant this authority. In \"Terry v. Ohio\", the U.S. Supreme Court established that police may conduct a limited search for weapons (known as a \"frisk\") if they reasonably suspect that the person to be detained may be armed and dangerous.\n\nPolice may question a person detained in a Terry stop, but in general, the detainee is not required to answer.\nHowever, many states have \"stop and identify\" laws that explicitly require a person detained under the conditions of \"Terry\" to identify himself to police, and in some cases, provide additional information.\n\nBefore \"Hiibel\", it was unresolved whether a detainee could be arrested and prosecuted for refusing to disclose his name. Authority on this issue was split among the federal circuit courts of appeal,\nand the U.S. Supreme Court twice expressly refused to address the question.\nIn \" Hiibel\", the Court held, in a 5–4 decision, that a Nevada \"stop and identify\" law did not violate the United States Constitution. The Court opinion implied that a detainee was not required to produce written identification, but could satisfy the requirement merely by stating his name. Some \"stop and identify\" laws do not require that a detainee identify himself, but allow refusal to do so to be considered along with other factors in determining whether there is probable cause to arrest. In some states, providing a false name is an offense.\n\nAs of February 2011, the Supreme Court has not addressed the validity of requirements that a detainee provide information other than his name, however some states such as Arizona have specifically codified that a detained person is not required to provide any information aside from their full name.\n\nA detention requires only that police have reasonable suspicion that a person is involved in criminal activity. However, to make an arrest, an officer must have probable cause to believe that the person has committed a crime. Some states require police to inform the person of the intent to make the arrest and the cause for the arrest.\nBut it is not always obvious when a detention becomes an arrest. After making an arrest, police may search a person, his or her belongings, and his or her immediate surroundings.\n\nWhether an arrested person must identify himself may depend on the jurisdiction in which the arrest occurs. If a person is under arrest and police wish to question him, they are required to inform the person of his Fifth-Amendment right to remain silent by giving a Miranda warning. However, \"Miranda\" does not apply to biographical data necessary to complete booking.\nIt is not clear whether a \"stop and identify\" law could compel giving one's name after being arrested, although some states have laws that specifically require an arrested person to give his name and other biographical information,\nand some state courts\nhave held that refusal to give one's name constitutes obstructing a public officer. As a practical matter, an arrested person who refused to give his name would have little chance of obtaining a prompt release.\n\nStates not listed do not have a requirement to show Identification to law enforcement officers. Some states listed have \"Stop and ID\" laws which may or may not require someone to identify themselves during an investigative detention.\n\nWhile Wisconsin statutes allow law enforcement officers to \"demand\" ID, there is no statutory requirement to provide them ID nor is there a penalty for refusing to, hence Wisconsin is not a must ID state. \"Henes v. Morrissey\", 194 Wis.2d 338, 353-54 (1995). Annotations for Wisconsin §968.24, however, state \"The principles of \"Terry\" permit a state to require a suspect to disclose his or her name in the course of a \"Terry\" stop and allow imposing criminal penalties for failing to do so\", citing \"Hiibel\" as authority.\nHiibel held that statutes requiring suspects to disclose their names during police investigations did not violate the Fourth Amendment if the statute first required reasonable and articulable suspicion of criminal involvement. The Wisconsin Supreme Court held in Henes v. Morrissey that \"A crime is made up of two parts: proscribed conduct and a prescribed penalty. \"The former without the latter is no crime. ... In this case no statute penalizes a refusal to identify oneself to a law enforcement officer, and no penalty is set forth in the statute for refusing to identify oneself. This statute is part of Chapter 968 entitled \"Commencement of Criminal Proceedings. By its very terms sec. 968.24 empowers a law enforcement officer to stop and question \"in the vicinity where the person was stopped.\" The statute does not authorize a law enforcement officer to make an arrest.\" Additionally Henes v. Morrissey held that a detained person not providing their name isn't on its own a violation of 946.41 Resisting or obstructing officer as the act of not identifying ones self\nisn't a false statement with intent to mislead the officer in the performance of his or her duty.\n\nNeither is Illinois, since the Illinois Second District Appellate Court Decision in \"People v. Fernandez\", 2011 IL App (2d) 100473, which specifically states that section 107-14 is found in the Code of Criminal Procedure of 1963, not the Criminal Code of 1961, and governs the conduct of police officers. The fact remains that there is no corresponding duty in the Criminal Code of 1961 for a suspect to identify himself\nor herself.\n\nBy contrast, in \"Hiibel v. Sixth Judicial District Court of Nevada\", 542 U.S. 177, 181 (2004), a Nevada statute (Nev. Rev. Stat. § 171.123 (2003)) specifically required that a person subjected to a \"Terry\" stop \"shall identify himself.\" The Supreme Court held that the statute was constitutional.\n\nAs of February 2011, there is no U.S. federal law requiring that an individual identify himself during a \"Terry\" stop, but \"Hiibel\" held that states may enact such laws, provided the law requires the officer to have reasonable and articulable suspicion of criminal involvement, and 24 states have done so. The opinion in \"Hiibel\" implied that persons detained by police in jurisdictions with constitutional \"stop and identify\" laws listed are obligated to identify themselves, and that persons detained in other jurisdictions are not.\nThe issue may not be that simple, however, for several reasons:\n\n\nAs of February 2011, the validity of a law requiring that a person detained provide anything more than stating his or her name has not come before the U.S. Supreme Court.\n\nIn states whose \"stop and identify laws\" do not directly impose penalties, a lawful arrest must be for violation of some other law, such as one to the effect of \"resisting, obstructing, or delaying a peace officer\".\nFor example, the Nevada \"stop and identify\" law challenged in \"Hiibel\" did not impose a penalty on a person who refused to comply, but the Justice Court of Union Township, Nevada, determined that Hiibels refusal to identify himself\nconstituted a violation of Nevada \"obstructing\" law.\nA similar conclusion regarding the interaction between Utah \"stop and identify\" and \"obstructing\" laws was reached in \"Oliver v. Woods\" (10th Cir. 2000).\n\n\"Stop and identify\" laws in different states that appear to be nearly identical may be different in effect because of interpretations by state courts. For example, California \"stop and identify\" law, Penal Code §647(e) had wording\nsimilar to the Nevada law upheld in \"Hiibel\", but a California appellate court, in \"People v. Solomon\" (1973), 33 Cal.App.3d 429 construed the law to require \"credible and reliable\" identification that carries a \"reasonable assurance\" of its authenticity. Using this construction, the U.S. Supreme Court held the law to be void for vagueness in \"Kolender v. Lawson\", .\n\nSome courts have recognized a distinction authorizing police to demand identifying information and specifically imposing an obligation of a suspect to respond.\nOther courts have apparently interpreted \"demand\" to impose an obligation on the detainee to comply.\n\nWording and interpretation by state courts of \"obstructing\" laws also varies; for example, New York \"obstructing\" law\napparently requires physical rather than simply verbal obstruction;\nlikewise, a violation of the Colorado \"obstructing\" law appears to require use or threat of use of physical force. However, the Colorado Supreme Court held in \"Dempsey v. People\", No. 04SC362 (2005) (PDF) that refusing to provide identification was an element in the \"totality of the circumstances\" that could constitute obstructing an officer, even when actual physical interference was not employed.\nUtah \"obstructing\" law does not require a physical act, but merely a failure to follow a \"lawful order . . . necessary to effect the . . . detention\";\na divided court in \"Oliver v. Woods\" concluded that failure to present identification constituted a violation of that law.\n\nIt is not universally agreed that, absent a \"stop and identify law\", there is no obligation for a detainee to identify himself. For example, as the U.S. Supreme Court noted in \"Hiibel\", California \"stop and identify\" statute was voided in \"Kolender v. Lawson\". But in \"People v. Long\",\ndecided four years after \"Kolender\", a California appellate court found no constitutional impropriety in a police officer's demand for written identification from a detainee. The issue before the \"Long\" court was a request for suppression of evidence uncovered in a search of the defendant's wallet, so the issue of refusal to present identification was not directly addressed; however, the author of the \"Long\" opinion had apparently concluded in a 1980 case that failure to identify oneself did not provide a basis for arrest.\nNonetheless, some cite \"Long\" in maintaining that refusal to present written identification constitutes obstructing an officer.\nOthers disagree, and maintain that persons detained by police in California cannot be compelled to identify themselves.\n\nSome courts, e.g., \"State v. Flynn\" (Wis. 1979)\nand \"People v. Loudermilk\" (Calif. 1987)\nhave held that police may perform a search for written identification if a suspect refuses to provide it;\na later California decision, \"People v. Garcia\" (2006) strongly disagreed.\n\nIn the case of \"Utah v. Strieff\" (2016), the U.S. Supreme Court ruled that an officer's stop of Edward Strieff and his demand for identification from Strieff was unlawful under Utah state law, but that the evidence collected pursuant to the stop was admissible due to the determination that Strieff was subject to a pre-existing arrest warrant. Therefore, the pre-existing warrant \"attenuated\" the unlawful stop-and-identify.\n\nSome legal organizations, such as the National Lawyers Guild and the ACLU of Northern California,\nrecommend to either remain silent or to identify oneself whether or not a jurisdiction has a \"stop and identify\" law:\n\nIn a more recent pamphlet, the ACLU of Northern California elaborated on this further, recommending that a person detained by police should:\n\nMany countries allow police to demand identification and arrest people who do not carry any (or refuse to produce so). Normally these countries provide all residents with national identity cards, which have the identity information the police would want to know, including citizenship. Foreign visitors need to have their passport available to show at all times. In some cases national identity cards from certain other countries are accepted.\n\nFor example, in Portugal it is compulsory to carry the state ID card at all times. This card named Cartão de Cidadão - Citizen Card is an electronic card which includes biometric information, id number, social security number, fiscal information, place of birth, etc. Police can only ask for the ID card in public or a place open to public and only if there is a reasonable suspicion the person committed a crime. A certified copy of the ID card can be presented in such situations. If a citizen does not carry the ID card or its certified copy, the police will escort the person to the police department to remain detained until clear identification can be obtained.\n\nIn other countries like Australia, Canada, and New Zealand, police generally have no power to demand identification unless they have a statutory power to do so. For example, these countries have laws that require those driving to produce their licence (or state their name, address, etc) when stopped by police. Police may also require people to identify themselves if they have reasonable grounds to believe that they have committed a crime.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27441", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27441", "title": "Svalbard", "text": "Svalbard\n\nSvalbard (; ; prior to 1925 known by its Dutch name Spitsbergen) is a Norwegian archipelago in the Arctic Ocean. Situated north of mainland Europe, it is about midway between continental Norway and the North Pole. The islands of the group range from 74° to 81° north latitude, and from 10° to 35° east longitude. The largest island is Spitsbergen, followed by Nordaustlandet and Edgeøya. Administratively, the archipelago is not part of any Norwegian county, but forms an unincorporated area administered by a governor appointed by the Norwegian government. Since 2002, Svalbard's main settlement, Longyearbyen, has had an elected local government, somewhat similar to mainland municipalities. Other settlements include the Russian mining community of Barentsburg, the research station of Ny-Ålesund, and the mining outpost of Sveagruva. Ny-Ålesund is the northernmost settlement in the world with a permanent civilian population. Other settlements are farther north, but are populated only by rotating groups of researchers.\n\nThe islands were first taken into use as a whaling base in the 17th and 18th centuries, after which they were abandoned. Coal mining started at the beginning of the 20th century, and several permanent communities were established. The Svalbard Treaty of 1920 recognizes Norwegian sovereignty, and the 1925 Svalbard Act made Svalbard a full part of the Kingdom of Norway. They also established Svalbard as a free economic zone and a demilitarized zone. The Norwegian Store Norske and the Russian Arktikugol remain the only mining companies in place. Research and tourism have become important supplementary industries, with the University Centre in Svalbard (UNIS) and the Svalbard Global Seed Vault playing critical roles. No roads connect the settlements; instead snowmobiles, aircraft and boats serve inter-community transport. Svalbard Airport, Longyear serves as the main gateway.\n\nThe archipelago features an Arctic climate, although with significantly higher temperatures than other areas at the same latitude. The flora take advantage of the long period of midnight sun to compensate for the polar night. Svalbard is a breeding ground for many seabirds, and also features polar bears, reindeer, the Arctic fox, and certain marine mammals. Seven national parks and twenty-three nature reserves cover two-thirds of the archipelago, protecting the largely untouched, yet fragile, natural environment. Approximately 60% of the archipelago is covered with glaciers, and the islands feature many mountains and fjords.\n\nSvalbard and Jan Mayen are collectively assigned the ISO 3166-1 alpha-2 country code \"SJ\". Both areas are administered by Norway, though they are separated by a distance of over and have very different administrative structures.\n\nThe Svalbard Treaty of 1920 defines Svalbard as all islands, islets and skerries from 74° to 81° north latitude, and from 10° to 35° east longitude. The land area is , and dominated by the island of Spitsbergen, which constitutes more than half the archipelago, followed by Nordaustlandet and Edgeøya. All settlements are located on Spitsbergen, except the meteorological outposts on Bjørnøya and Hopen. The Norwegian state took possession of all unclaimed land, or 95.2% of the archipelago, at the time the Svalbard Treaty entered into force; Store Norske owns 4%, Arktikugol owns 0.4%, while other private owners hold 0.4%.\n\nSince Svalbard is located north of the Arctic Circle it experiences midnight sun in summer and polar night in winter. At 74° north, the midnight sun lasts 99 days and polar night 84 days, while the respective figures at 81° are 141 and 128 days. In Longyearbyen, midnight sun lasts from 20 April until 23 August, and polar night lasts from 26 October to 15 February. In winter, the combination of full moon and reflective snow can give additional light.\n\nGlacial ice covers or 60% of Svalbard; 30% is barren rock while 10% is vegetated. The largest glacier is Austfonna () on Nordaustlandet, followed by Olav V Land and Vestfonna. During summer, it is possible to ski from Sørkapp in the south to the north of Spitsbergen, with only a short distance not being covered by snow or glacier. Kvitøya is 99.3% covered by glacier.\n\nThe landforms of Svalbard were created through repeated ice ages, when glaciers cut the former plateau into fjords, valleys and mountains. The tallest peak is Newtontoppen (), followed by Perriertoppen (), Ceresfjellet (), Chadwickryggen () and Galileotoppen (). The longest fjord is Wijdefjorden (), followed by Isfjorden (), Van Mijenfjorden (), Woodfjorden () and Wahlenbergfjorden (). Svalbard is part of the High Arctic Large Igneous Province, and experienced Norway's strongest earthquake on 6 March 2009, which hit a magnitude of 6.5.\n\nAssociation football is the most popular sport in Svalbard. There are three football pitches, but no stadiums because of the low population.\n\nNorsemen possibly discovered Svalbard as early as the 12th century. There are traditional Norse accounts of a land known as Svalbarð—literally \"cold shores\"—although this might have referred to Jan Mayen, or a part of eastern Greenland. It was thought both Svalbard and Greenland were connected to Continental Europe. The archipelago might in that period have been used for fishing and hunting. The Dutchman Willem Barentsz made the first discovery of the archipelago in 1596, when he sighted its coast while searching for the Northern Sea Route.\n\nThe name \"Spitsbergen\" originated with Barentsz, who described the \"pointed mountains\" he saw on the west coast of the main island, Spitsbergen although his 1599 map of the Arctic labels the island as \"Het Nieuwe Land\" (\"The New Land\"). Barentsz did not recognize that he had discovered an archipelago, and consequently the name \"Spitsbergen\" long remained in use both for the main island and for the archipelago as a whole.\n\nThe first known landing on the island dates to 1604, when an English ship landed at Bjørnøya and started hunting walrus; annual expeditions soon followed, and Spitsbergen became a base for hunting the bowhead whale from 1611. Because of the lawless nature of the area, English, Danish, Dutch, and French companies and authorities tried to use force to keep out other countries' fleets.\n\nSmeerenburg was one of the first settlements, established by the Dutch in 1619. Smaller bases were also built by the English, Danish and French. At first the outposts were merely summer camps, but from the early 1630s, a few individuals started to overwinter. Whaling at Spitsbergen lasted until the 1820s, when the Dutch, British and Danish whalers moved elsewhere in the Arctic. By the late 17th century, Russian hunters arrived; they overwintered to a greater extent and hunted land mammals such as the polar bear and fox.\n\nAfter the Anglo-Russian War in 1809, Russian activity on Svalbard diminished, and ceased by the 1820s. Norwegian hunting—mostly for walrus—started in the 1790s. The first Norwegian citizens to reach Spitsbergen proper were a number of Coast Sámi people from the Hammerfest region, who were hired as part of a Russian crew for an expedition in 1795. Norwegian whaling was abandoned about the same time as the Russians left, but whaling continued around Spitsbergen until the 1830s, and around Bjørnøya until the 1860s.\n\nBy the 1890s, Svalbard had become a destination for Arctic tourism, coal deposits had been found and the islands were being used as a base for Arctic exploration. The first mining was along Isfjorden by Norwegians in 1899; by 1904, British interests had established themselves in Adventfjorden and started the first all-year operations. Production in Longyearbyen, by American interests, started in 1908; and Store Norske established itself in 1916, as did other Norwegian interests during the war, in part by buying American interests.\n\nDiscussions to establish the sovereignty of the archipelago commenced in the 1910s, but were interrupted by World War I. On 9 February 1920, following the Paris Peace Conference, the Svalbard Treaty was signed, granting full sovereignty to Norway. However, all signatory countries were granted non-discriminatory rights to fishing, hunting and mineral resources. The treaty took effect on 14 August 1925, at the same time as the Svalbard Act regulated the archipelago and the first governor, Johannes Gerckens Bassøe, took office. The archipelago has traditionally been known as Spitsbergen, and the main island as West Spitsbergen. From the 1920s, Norway renamed the archipelago Svalbard, and the main island became Spitsbergen. Kvitøya, Kong Karls Land, Hopen and Bjørnøya were not regarded as part of the Spitsbergen archipelago. Russians have traditionally called the archipelago Grumant (). The Soviet Union retained the name Spitsbergen () to support undocumented claims that Russians were the first to discover the island. In 1928, Italian explorer Umberto Nobile and the crew of the airship \"Italia\" crashed on the icepack off the coast of Foyn Island. The subsequent rescue attempts were covered extensively in the press and Svalbard received short-lived fame as a result.\n\nIn 1941, after Operation Gauntlet, all Norwegian and Soviet settlements on Svalbard were evacuated, and a German presence was established with a meteorological outpost, although a small Norwegian garrison was kept on Spitsbergen. The German Operation Zitronella took this garrison by force in 1943, and at the same time destroying the settlements at Longyearbyen and Barentsburg. In September 1944, together with the supply ship \"Carl J. Busch\", the submarine transported the men of Operation Haudegen to Svalbard. Operation Haudegen (i.e., swashbuckler) was the name of a German operation during the Second World War to establish meteorological stations on Svalbard.\n\nThe station was active from 9 September 1944 to 4 September 1945. It lost radio contact in May 1945, and the soldiers were capable of asking for support only in August 1945. On 4 September 1945, the soldiers were picked up by a Norwegian seal hunting vessel and surrendered to its captain. This group of men were the last German troops to surrender after the Second World War. After the war, the Soviet Union proposed common Norwegian and Soviet administration and military defence of Svalbard. This was rejected in 1947 by Norway, which two years later joined NATO. The Soviet Union retained high civilian activity on Svalbard, in part to ensure that the archipelago was not used by NATO.\n\nAfter the war, Norway re-established operations at Longyearbyen and Ny-Ålesund, while the Soviet Union established mining in Barentsburg, Pyramiden and Grumant. The mine at Ny-Ålesund had several fatal accidents, killing 71 people while it was in operation from 1945 to 1954 and from 1960 to 1963. The Kings Bay Affair, caused by the 1962 accident killing 21 workers, forced Gerhardsen's Third Cabinet to resign. From 1964, Ny-Ålesund became a research outpost, and a facility for the European Space Research Organisation. Petroleum test drilling was started in 1963 and continued until 1984, but no commercially viable fields were found. From 1960, regular charter flights were made from the mainland to a field at Hotellneset; in 1975, Svalbard Airport, Longyear opened, allowing year-round services.\n\nDuring the Cold War, the Soviet Union retained about two-thirds of the population on the islands (with a third being Norwegians) with the archipelago's population slightly under 4,000. Russian activity has diminished considerably since then, falling from 2,500 to 450 people from 1990 to 2010. Grumant was closed after it was depleted in 1962. Pyramiden was closed in 1998. Coal exports from Barentsburg ceased in 2006 because of a fire, but resumed in 2010. The Russian community has also experienced two air accidents, Vnukovo Airlines Flight 2801, which killed 141 people, and the Heerodden helicopter accident.\n\nLongyearbyen remained purely a company town until 1989 when utilities, culture and education was separated into Svalbard Samfunnsdrift. In 1993 it was sold to the national government and the University Centre was established. Through the 1990s, tourism increased and the town developed an economy independent of Store Norske and the mining. Longyearbyen was incorporated on 1 January 2002, receiving a community council.\n\nIn 2016, Svalbard had a population of 2,667, of which 423 were Russian and Ukrainian, 10 Polish and 322 non-Norwegians living in Norwegian settlements. The largest non-Norwegian groups in Longyearbyen in 2005 were from Thailand, Sweden, Denmark, Russia and Germany.\n\nLongyearbyen is the largest settlement on the archipelago, the seat of the governor and the only town to be incorporated. The town features a hospital, primary and secondary school, university, sports center with a swimming pool, library, culture center, cinema, bus transport, hotels, a bank, and several museums. The newspaper \"Svalbardposten\" is published weekly. Only a small fraction of the mining activity remains at Longyearbyen; instead, workers commute to Sveagruva (or Svea) where Store Norske operates a mine. Sveagruva is a dormitory town, with workers commuting from Longyearbyen weekly.\nNy-Ålesund is a permanent settlement based entirely around research. Formerly a mining town, it is still a company town operated by the Norwegian state-owned Kings Bay. While there is some tourism there, Norwegian authorities limit access to the outpost to minimize impact on the scientific work. Ny-Ålesund has a winter population of 35 and a summer population of 180. The Norwegian Meteorological Institute has outposts at Bjørnøya and Hopen, with respectively ten and four people stationed. Both outposts can also house temporary research staff. Poland operates the Polish Polar Station at Hornsund, with ten permanent residents.\n\nBarentsburg is the only permanently inhabited Russian settlement after Pyramiden was abandoned in 1998. It is a company town: all facilities are owned by Arktikugol, which operates a coal mine. In addition to the mining facilities, Arktikugol has opened a hotel and souvenir shop, catering for tourists taking day trips or hikes from Longyearbyen. The village features facilities such as a school, library, sports center, community center, swimming pool, farm and greenhouse. Pyramiden features similar facilities; both are built in typical post-World War II Soviet architectural and planning style and contain the world's two most northerly Lenin statues and other socialist realism artwork. , a handful of workers are stationed in the largely abandoned Pyramiden to maintain the infrastructure and run the hotel, which has been re-opened for tourists.\n\nMost of the population is affiliated with the Church of Norway. Catholics on the archipelago are pastorally served by the Roman Catholic Diocese of Oslo.\n\nThe Svalbard Treaty of 1920 established full Norwegian sovereignty over the archipelago. The islands are, unlike the Norwegian Antarctic Territory, a part of the Kingdom of Norway and not a dependency. The treaty came into effect in 1925, following the Svalbard Act. All forty signatory countries of the treaty have the right to conduct commercial activities on the archipelago without discrimination, although all activity is subject to Norwegian legislation. The treaty limits Norway's right to collect taxes to that of financing services on Svalbard. Therefore, Svalbard has a lower income tax than mainland Norway, and there is no value added tax. There is a separate budget for Svalbard to ensure compliance. Svalbard is a demilitarized zone, as the treaty prohibits the establishment of military installations. Norwegian military activity is limited to fishery surveillance by the Norwegian Coast Guard as the treaty requires Norway to protect the natural environment.\n\nThe Svalbard Act established the institution of the Governor of Svalbard (), who holds the responsibility as both county governor and chief of police, as well as holding other authority granted from the executive branch. Duties include environmental policy, family law, law enforcement, search and rescue, tourism management, information services, contact with foreign settlements, and judge in some areas of maritime inquiries and judicial examinations—albeit never in the same cases as acting as police. Since 2015, Kjerstin Askholt has been governor; she is assisted by a staff of 26 professionals. The institution is subordinate to the Ministry of Justice and the Police, but reports to other ministries in matters within their portfolio.\nSince 2002, Longyearbyen Community Council has had many of the same responsibilities of a municipality, including utilities, education, cultural facilities, fire department, roads and ports. No care or nursing services are available, nor is welfare payment available. Norwegian residents retain pension and medical rights through their mainland municipalities. The hospital is part of University Hospital of North Norway, while the airport is operated by state-owned Avinor. Ny-Ålesund and Barentsburg remain company towns with all infrastructure owned by Kings Bay and Arktikugol, respectively. Other public offices with presence on Svalbard are the Norwegian Directorate of Mining, the Norwegian Polar Institute, the Norwegian Tax Administration and the Church of Norway. Svalbard is subordinate to Nord-Troms District Court and Hålogaland Court of Appeal, both located in Tromsø.\n\nAlthough Norway is part of the European Economic Area (EEA) and the Schengen Agreement, Svalbard is not part of the Schengen Area or the EEA. Non-EU and non-Nordic Svalbard residents do not need Schengen visas, but are prohibited from reaching Svalbard from mainland Norway without such. In theory it would be possible to do a visa-free airport transit at Oslo Airport, but this is not allowed by Norway. People without a source of income can be rejected by the governor. No person is required to have a visa or residence permit for Svalbard. Everybody can live and work in Svalbard indefinitely regardless of citizenship. Svalbard Treaty grants treaty nationals equal right of abode as Norwegian nationals. So far, non-treaty nationals were admitted visa-free as well. \"Regulations concerning rejection and expulsion from Svalbard\" in force. Russia retains a consulate in Barentsburg.\n\nIn September 2010 a treaty was made between Russia and Norway fixing the boundary between the Svalbard archipelago and the Novaya Zemlya archipelago. Increased interest in petroleum exploration in the Arctic raised interest in a resolution of the dispute. The agreement takes into account the relative positions of the archipelagos, rather than being based simply on northward extension of the continental border of Norway and Russia.\n\nThe three main industries on Svalbard are coal mining, tourism, and research. In 2007, there were 484 people working in the mining sector, 211 people working in the tourism sector and 111 people working in the education sector. The same year, the mining gave a revenue of NOK 2.008 billion (227,791,078 USD), tourism NOK 317 million (35,967,202 USD) and research NOK 142 million (16,098,404 USD) In 2006, the average income for economically active people was NOK 494,700; 23% higher than on the mainland. Almost all housing is owned by the various employers and institutions and rented to their employees; there are only a few privately owned houses, most of which are recreational cabins. Because of this, it is nearly impossible to live on Svalbard without working for an established institution.\n\nSince the resettlement of Svalbard in the early 20th century, coal mining has been the dominant commercial activity. Store Norske Spitsbergen Kulkompani, a subsidiary of the Norwegian Ministry of Trade and Industry, operates Svea Nord in Sveagruva and Mine 7 in Longyearbyen. The former produced 3.4 million tonnes in 2008, while the latter uses 35% of its output to Longyearbyen Power Station. Since 2007, there has not been any significant mining by the Russian state-owned Arktikugol in Barentsburg. There have previously been performed test drilling for petroleum on land, but these did not give satisfactory results for permanent operation. The Norwegian authorities do not allow offshore petroleum activities for environmental reasons, and the land formerly test-drilled on has been protected as natural reserves or national parks. In 2011, a 20-year plan to develop offshore oil and gas resources around Svalbard was announced.\nSvalbard has historically been a base for both whaling and fishing. Norway claimed a exclusive economic zone (EEZ) around Svalbard in 1977, with of internal waters and of EEZ. Norway retains a restrictive fisheries policy in the zone, and the claims are disputed by Russia. Tourism is focused on the environment and is centered on Longyearbyen. Activities include hiking, kayaking, walks through glacier caves and snowmobile and dog-sled safari. Cruise ships generate a significant portion of the traffic, including both stops by offshore vessels and expeditionary cruises starting and ending in Svalbard. Traffic is strongly concentrated between March and August; overnights have quintupled from 1991 to 2008, when there were 93,000 guest-nights.\n\nResearch on Svalbard centers on Longyearbyen and Ny-Ålesund, the most accessible areas in the high Arctic. The treaty grants permission for any nation to conduct research on Svalbard, resulting in the Polish Polar Station and the Chinese Arctic Yellow River Station, plus Russian facilities in Barentsburg. The University Centre in Svalbard in Longyearbyen offers undergraduate, graduate and postgraduate courses to 350 students in various arctic sciences, particularly biology, geology and geophysics. Courses are provided to supplement studies at the mainland universities; there are no tuition fees and courses are held in English, with Norwegian and international students equally represented.\n\nThe Svalbard Global Seed Vault is a seedbank to store seeds from as many of the world's crop varieties and their botanical wild relatives as possible. A cooperation between the government of Norway and the Global Crop Diversity Trust, the vault is cut into rock near Longyearbyen, keeping it at a natural and refrigerating the seeds to .\n\nThe Svalbard Undersea Cable System is a fibre optic line from Svalbard to Harstad, needed for communicating with polar orbiting satellites through Svalbard Satellite Station and installations in Ny-Ålesund.\n\nOne source of income for the area was, until 2015, visiting cruise ships. The Norwegian government became concerned about large numbers of cruise ship passengers suddenly landing at small settlements such as Ny-Ålesund, which is conveniently close to the barren-yet-picturesque Magdalena Fjord. With the increasing size of the larger ships, up to 2000 people can potentially appear in a community that normally numbers less than 40. As a result, the government severely restricted the size of cruise ships that may visit.\n\nWithin Longyearbyen, Barentsburg, and Ny-Ålesund, there are road systems, but they do not connect with each other. Off-road motorized transport is prohibited on bare ground, but snowmobiles are used extensively during winter—both for commercial and recreational activities. Transport from Longyearbyen to Barentsburg () and Pyramiden () is possible by snowmobile in winter, or by ship all year round. All settlements have ports and Longyearbyen has a bus system.\n\nSvalbard Airport, Longyear, located from Longyearbyen, is the only airport offering air transport off the archipelago. Scandinavian Airlines has daily scheduled services to Tromsø and Oslo. Low-cost carrier Norwegian Air Shuttle also has a service between Oslo and Svalbard, operating three or four times a week; there are also irregular charter services to Russia. Finnair announced commencement of service from Helsinki, operating three times a week starting 1 June 2016 and lasting until 27 August 2016, but Norwegian authorities did not allow this route, citing the 1978 bilateral agreement on air traffic between Finland and Norway. Lufttransport provides regular corporate charter services from Longyearbyen to Ny-Ålesund Airport and Svea Airport for Kings Bay and Store Norske; these flights are in general not available to the public. There are heliports in Barentsburg and Pyramiden, and helicopters are frequently used by the governor and to a lesser extent the mining company Arktikugol.\n\nThe climate of Svalbard is dominated by its high latitude, with the average summer temperature at and January averages at . The West Spitsbergen Current, the northernmost branch of the North Atlantic Current system, moderates Svalbard's temperatures, particularly during winter. Winter temperatures in Svalbard are up to higher than those at similar latitudes in Russia and Canada. The warm Atlantic water keeps the surrounding waters open and navigable most of the year. The interior fjord areas and valleys, sheltered by the mountains, have larger temperature differences than the coast, giving about warmer summer temperatures and colder winter temperatures. On the south of Spitsbergen, the temperature is slightly higher than further north and west. During winter, the temperature difference between south and north is typically , and about in summer. Bear Island has average temperatures even higher than the rest of the archipelago.\n\nSvalbard is where cold polar air from the north and mild, wet sea air from the south meet, creating low pressure, changeable weather and strong winds, particularly in winter; in January, a strong breeze is registered 17% of the time at Isfjord Radio, but only 1% of the time in July. In summer, particularly away from land, fog is common, with visibility under registered 20% of the time in July and 1% of the time in January, at Hopen and Bjørnøya. Precipitation is frequent, but falls in small quantities, typically less than per year in western Spitsbergen. More rain falls on the uninhabited east side, where there can be more than .\n\n2016 was the warmest year on record at Svalbard Airport, with a remarkable mean temperature of , above the 1961–90 average, and more comparable to a location at the arctic circle. The coldest temperature of the year was as high as , warmer than the mean minimum in a normal January, February or March. There was also the same number of days with rain falling as snow falling, when there are normally more than twice as many snow days.\n\nIn addition to humans, three primarily terrestrial mammalian species inhabit the archipelago: the Arctic fox, the Svalbard reindeer, and accidentally introduced southern voles, which are found only in Grumant. Attempts to introduce the Arctic hare and the muskox have both failed. There are fifteen to twenty types of marine mammals, including whales, dolphins, seals, walruses, and polar bears.\n\nPolar bears are the iconic symbol of Svalbard, and one of the main tourist attractions. The animals are protected and people moving outside the settlements are required to have appropriate scare devices to ward off attacks. They are also advised to carry a firearm for use as a last resort. A British schoolboy was killed by a polar bear in 2011. In July 2018 a polar bear was shot dead after it attacked and injured a polar bear guard leading tourists off a cruise ship. Svalbard and Franz Joseph Land share a common population of 3,000 polar bears, with Kong Karls Land being the most important breeding ground. \nThe Svalbard reindeer (\"R. tarandus platyrhynchus\") is a distinct sub-species; although it was previously almost extinct, it can be legally hunted (as can Arctic fox). There are limited numbers of domesticated animals in the Russian settlements.\nAbout thirty species of bird are found on Svalbard, most of which are migratory. The Barents Sea is among the areas in the world with most seabirds, with about 20 million individuals during late summer. The most common are little auk, northern fulmar, thick-billed murre and black-legged kittiwake. Sixteen species are on the IUCN Red List. Particularly Bjørnøya, Storfjorden, Nordvest-Spitsbergen and Hopen are important breeding ground for seabirds. The Arctic tern has the furthest migration, all the way to Antarctica. Only two songbirds migrate to Svalbard to breed: the snow bunting and the wheatear. Rock ptarmigan is the only bird to overwinter. Remains of Predator X from the Jurassic period have been found; it is the largest dinosaur-era marine reptile ever found—a pliosaur estimated to have been almost long.\nSvalbard has permafrost and tundra, with both low, middle and high Arctic vegetation. 165 species of plants have been found on the archipelago. Only those areas which defrost in the summer have vegetations, which accounts for about 10% of the archipelago. Vegetation is most abundant in Nordenskiöld Land, around Isfjorden and where affected by guano. While there is little precipitation, giving the archipelago a steppe climate, plants still have good access to water because the cold climate reduces evaporation. The growing season is very short, and may last only a few weeks.\nThere are seven national parks in Svalbard: Forlandet, Indre Wijdefjorden, Nordenskiöld Land, Nordre Isfjorden Land, Nordvest-Spitsbergen, Sassen-Bünsow Land and Sør-Spitsbergen. The archipelago has fifteen bird sanctuaries, one geotopic protected area and six nature reserves—with Nordaust-Svalbard and Søraust-Svalbard both being larger than any of the national parks. Most of the nature reserves and three of the national parks were created in 1973, with the remaining areas gaining protection in the 2000s. All human traces dating from before 1946 are automatically protected. The protected areas make up 65% of the archipelago. Svalbard is on Norway's tentative list for nomination as a UNESCO World Heritage Site.\nThe total solar eclipse of 20 March 2015 included only Svalbard and the Faroe Islands in the band of totality. Many scientists and tourists observed it.\n\nLongyearbyen School serves ages 6–18. It is the primary/secondary school in the northernmost location on Earth. Once pupils reach ages 16 or 17 most families move to mainland Norway. Barentsburg has its own school serving the Russian community; by 2014 it had three teachers, and its welfare funds had declined. A primary school served the community of Pyramiden in the pre-1998 period.\n\nThere is a non-degree offering tertiary educational institution in Longyearbyen, University Centre in Svalbard (UNIS), the tertiary school in the northernmost location on Earth.\n\n\nSources\n\n"}
{"id": "4496221", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4496221", "title": "Sweden v. Yamaguchi", "text": "Sweden v. Yamaguchi\n\nSweden v. Yamaguchi, otherwise known as \"in the matter of Marianne Wilson\", or \"in the matter of Mary Ann Vaughn\", is a highly complex decision in international family law which touches on questions in law still unresolved over fifty years later. The formal name of the action was \"Israel Karl-Gustav Eugene Lagerfelt v. Yamaguchi Masakatsu and Yamaguchi Hideko\", or \"Case of Demand for Delivery of an Infant\", No. Wa-154, 1956 Yokohama District Court (Yokohama Chiho-saiban-sho), initiated February 22, 1956. On December 5, 1956, it held that the defendants should deliver the infant to the plaintiff. The appeal was dismissed by Tokyo High Court (No. Ne-2824) on July 9, 1958.\n\nThe case was brought by Consul Baron Karl-Gustav Lagerfelt on behalf of the King of Sweden as petitioner for guardianship of Mary Ann Vaughn, the daughter of a Swedish national in Japan, against the Yamaguchi family, \"de facto\" custodians of the eight-year-old child, to answer the questions of custody, guardianship and citizenship of Mary Ann Vaughn, also known as Marianne Wilson.\n\nThe case was decided in Yokohama District Court in 1956, and sustained upon appeal by defendants to the Tokyo High Court in 1958. Defendants declined appeal to the Japanese Supreme Court, and custody was granted to the Swedish Crown. Mary Ann Vaughn, to be thenceforth known as Marianne Wilson, was granted Swedish citizenship and remained in the custody of the Swedish Ambassadors to Japan Tage Grönfall and later Frederick Almquist in Tokyo.\n\nMary Ann Vaughn was born the only child of James A. Vaughn (b. May 7, 1925) and Vivienne Joy Wilson (b. November 2, 1929), in Bluff Hospital in Yokohama, Japan on April 17, 1949. Her father was a US national employed under contract with the United States Military Administration of Occupied Japan. Her mother was a Swedish National, of three generations of Swedish citizens resident in Japan. She was descended from John Wilson (Captain) and Sophia Wilson, née Naka Yamazaki (great-grandparents) through their youngest son Professor John Wilson (grandfather).\n\nDue to the sensitive nature of Vaughn's employment, the US Military Administration declined to allow Vaughn to marry under civil law at the US Embassy in Tokyo. Vaughn and Vivienne Wilson were married under religious ceremony in Yokohama, Japan on 8 May 1948.\n\nThe Department of State declined Vaughn's request to allow his wife to immigrate to the United States, due to the absence of a licit civil license. During this time, Japan was under US Law as Occupied Japan. In addition, Japan had traditionally ignored the marriages of foreigners. As foreigners had no licit koseki, or Japanese family record, there was no method for registration of foreigner marriages within Japan. As Vaughn was a civilian employee of the United States, his marriage did not come under the terms of permissible immigration stipulated for US Military Service Personnel who married foreign women (see War-bride). Due to the absence of recognized civil marriage, James and Vivienne allegedly suffered harassment by US and Japanese authorities.\n\nUpon learning that his wife was pregnant, Vaughn returned to the United States to seek permission for immigration of his pregnant wife. He received assistance from Patrick McCarran, senator from Nevada, who sponsored private legislation permitting the immigration of Vivienne Joy Wilson to the United States for the purpose of legitimizing their marriage; and recognizing his daughter, Mary Ann Vaughn, who had been born in Yokohama during the interim, as his natural-born daughter. Private legislation was passed by the United States Congress and signed into law on 5 August 1950. \"(81st Congress 2nd Session, v.64 part 2, Chapter 596, Private Law 722, For the relief of Vivienne Joy Wilson and minor daughter Mary Ann Vaughn)\"\n\nHowever, Vivienne had been weakened by the privations of World War II, and contracted tuberculosis during James Vaughn's absence, during which Mary Ann was cared for by a nanny, Fumi. She died on 5 August 1950, the very day of passage of private legislation permitting her to immigrate to the United States.\n\nAfter the death of her mother, Mary Ann Vaughn was placed under the guardianship of Professor John Wilson, with nanny Fumi Kaneko (later Fumi Yamaguchi) in custodial care. Due to the privations of the postwar period, John Wilson sailed to Sweden with his wife and children in 1952. Mary Ann was to accompany them, but due to an outbreak of whooping cough, she was to sail on the next ship. However, Yamaguchi absconded with Mary Ann, and Yamaguchi destroyed the child's records, raising her under claim of an abandoned American orphan in the slums of Yokohama.\n\nJohn Wilson continued to search for Mary Ann, and with the intervention of the AJCAJAO (American Joint Committee for Assisting Japanese-American Orphans), the Red Cross of Sweden and the International Red Cross, found and identified her in Yokohama in 1955. The AJCAJAO identified her residency with Masakatsu Yamaguchi and wife in Yokohama. The Consul of the Royal Swedish Legation attempted to negotiate a custody settlement with the Yamaguchi family, but was unsuccessful. The Crown then brought suit on behalf of Wilson for custody.\n\nAccording to Fumi Kaneko (reading from her interview in Asahi Shinbun and Shukan Shincho), the baby was entrusted to her by Vivian at her death bed. There was no mention of a search for the baby; instead Fumi Kaneko said she was the one who approached Swedish Embassy to recognize Mary Ann before she entered into grade school.\n\nThe case developed intense national publicity in Japan, with a great national sympathy towards the Yamaguchi family, to remain as custodian, with publication in the Kanagawa Shimbun, Asahi Shimbun and Shukan Shincho Japanese periodicals, especially in the shukanshi, confrontational weekly magazines. The case attracted considerable attention from the Japanese Leftists, and became a focus of anti-American nationalism in Japan after World War II. The United States government abjured involvement in the case, not offering to enter as participant or \"amicus\" in the hearing.\n\nMary Ann, now known as Marianne Wilson, remained in the custody of the Swedish Ambassador to Japan, and attended the ASIJ, the American School in Japan in Chōfu, Tokyo ASIJ, graduating in the 1960s. She continued to visit the Yamaguchi family throughout their lifetime. She retained her Swedish citizenship, and relocated to Sweden, working for the Scandinavian Airlines System for a time, before returning to Japan to settle as a permanent resident Swedish citizen in Japan. She is married with one son, and lives in Tokyo. She remains in close contact with the John Wilson family of Sweden.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "4728648", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=4728648", "title": "Thibaudeau v Canada", "text": "Thibaudeau v Canada\n\nThibaudeau v Canada, [1995] 2 SCR 627 was one of a trilogy of equality rights cases published by a divided Supreme Court of Canada in the spring of 1995. The Court held that the provisions of the \"Income Tax Act\" requiring an ex-wife to include among her taxable income amounts received from ex-husband as alimony for maintenance of children is not a violation of the ex-wife's equality rights under Section 15 of the \"Canadian Charter of Rights and Freedoms\".\n\n\n"}
{"id": "49751010", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=49751010", "title": "Town Planning Code of Russia", "text": "Town Planning Code of Russia\n\n\nTown Planning Code was accepted the State Duma in 2004 year.\n"}
{"id": "39937721", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39937721", "title": "Treaty of Jeddah (2000)", "text": "Treaty of Jeddah (2000)\n\nThe 2000 Treaty of Jeddah resolved a border dispute between Saudi Arabia and Yemen dating back to Saudi boundary claims made in 1934.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2735625", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2735625", "title": "Treaty of Petrópolis", "text": "Treaty of Petrópolis\n\nThe Treaty of Petrópolis, signed on November 11, 1903 in the Brazilian Imperial city of Petrópolis, near Rio de Janeiro, ended tensions between Bolivia and Brazil over the then-Bolivian territory of Acre (today the Acre state), a desirable territory during the contemporary rubber boom.\n\nThe treaty, drafted by Brazilian foreign affairs minister José Paranhos, Baron of Rio Branco, gave Brazil the territory of Acre (191,000 km²), in exchange for over 3,000 km² of Brazilian territory between the Abunâ and Madeira rivers, a monetary payment of two million British pounds, paid in two installments, and a pledge of a rail-link between the Bolivian city of Riberalta and the Brazilian city of Porto Velho, which would bypass the rapids on the Madeira. \n\nThe rail line was called the Madeira-Mamoré Railway. It was supposed to go as far as Riberalta, on the Rio Beni, above that river's rapids, but had to stop short at Guajará-Mirim. This was actually the third such attempt. In the 1870s, during the rubber boom, the American George Church was defeated twice by the heat, the difficulty of the terrain and appalling loss of life from fever. The contract for the Madeira-Mamoré railway required by the treaty was won by another American, Percival Farquhar. Construction began in August 1907 and was completed on July 15, 1912. The project cost US$33 million. At least 3,600 men died building the 367 km of track Guajaramirin-Station (popular estimates say that each one hundred sleepers cost one human life). The Madeira-Mamoré railway had about a year of full operation before the combination of the collapse of rubber prices, the opening of a railway from Bolivia to the Pacific via Chile and of the Panama Canal rendered it uneconomical. It was kept in operation until 1972. \n\nThe BR-364 road eventual subsumed the route as railway bridges were taken over, leaving what remained of the track to enthusiasts to salvage what they could.\n\n"}
{"id": "26412814", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=26412814", "title": "United States v. Hamilton", "text": "United States v. Hamilton\n\nUnited States v. Hamilton, 3 U.S. (3 Dall.) 17 (1795), was a United States Supreme Court case in which a defendant committed on a charge of treason was released on bail, despite having been imprisoned upon a warrant of committal by a district court judge. The Judiciary Act of 1789 stated that \"upon all arrests in criminal cases, bail shall be admitted, except where the punishment may be death, in which cases it shall not be admitted but by the supreme or a circuit court, or by a justice of the supreme court, or a judge of a district court, who shall exercise their discretion therein, regarding the nature and circumstances of the offence, and of the evidence, and the usages of law.\" Ordinarily, habeas corpus was used to release prisoners held by the judgment of the executive, but not for those who commitment had been authorized by a court order. Hamilton's attorney argued that the district court judge did not hold a hearing before issuing a warrant for his commitment to jail and that the affidavits alleging treasonous activity were weak, while the government urged that the Judiciary Act did not give the Supreme Court the jurisdiction to review the district court's decision unless there was new information or misconduct. The Supreme Court set bail, but without addressing either attorney's arguments.\n\n"}
{"id": "28909544", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28909544", "title": "Ventura Corporate Towers", "text": "Ventura Corporate Towers\n\nThe Ventura Corporate Towers is an office building in the Centro neighbourhood of Rio de Janeiro, Brazil, fronting the avenue between Chile and Lavradio, the street in front of the Rio de Janeiro Cathedral. It was built by Camargo Correa in partnership with Tishman Speyer, who together invested 500,000,000 reais. Designed by Kohn Pedersen Fox Associates, the building has achieved LEED certification, by presenting streamlined and intelligent use of water. Moreover, the special glass provide natural lighting and not so warm inside the building, reducing expenses with chilled air and light. Together with the Ventura Corporate Tower II, the venture will strengthen the corridor's commercial avenues Chile, formed by the BNDES, Petrobras and Caixa Economica Federal. The tower is 140 meters tall, with 36 floors and a heliport.\n"}
{"id": "38244224", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38244224", "title": "Westfall Township, Pike County, Pennsylvania", "text": "Westfall Township, Pike County, Pennsylvania\n\nWestfall Township is a township in Pike County, Pennsylvania, United States. The population was 2,323 at the 2010 census.\n\nThe Mill Rift Hall and Nearpass House are listed on the National Register of Historic Places.\n\nIn 2009 Westfall Township filed for Chapter 9 bankruptcy.\n\nAccording to the United States Census Bureau, the township has a total area of 29.4 square miles (76.1 km²), of which, 28.8 square miles (75 km²) of it is land and 0.6 square miles (2 km²) of it (2.04%) is water.\n\nAs of the census of 2010, there were 2,323 people, 1,015 households, and 611 families residing in the township. The population density was 80.7 people per square mile (31.2/km²). There were 1,202 housing units at an average density of 41.7/sq mi (16.3/km²). The racial makeup of the township was 95.3% White, 1.2% African American, 0.6% Native American, 0.7% Asian, 0.5% from other races, and 1.7% from two or more races. Hispanic or Latino of any race were 5.3% of the population.\n\nThere were 1,015 households out of which 21% had children under the age of 18 living with them, 48.1% were married couples living together, 7.6% had a female householder with no husband present, and 39.8% were non-families. 34.2% of all households were made up of individuals and 21.1% had someone living alone who was 65 years of age or older. The average household size was 2.23 and the average family size was 2.86.\n\nIn the township the population was spread out with 17.5% under the age of 18, 58% from 18 to 64, and 24.5% who were 65 years of age or older. The median age was 49.9 years.\n\nThe median income for a household in the township was $42,472, and the median income for a family was $51,065. Males had a median income of $39,844 versus $24,118 for females. The per capita income for the township was $20,866. About 4.9% of families and 6.9% of the population were below the poverty line, including 8.2% of those under age 18 and 7.6% of those age 65 or over.\n\n"}
