{"id": "15342047", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15342047", "title": "2007 in chess", "text": "2007 in chess\n\nEvents in chess during the year 2007:\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "54212664", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=54212664", "title": "Abdallah Imamo", "text": "Abdallah Imamo\n\nAbdallah Imamo Ahmed (born 19 April 1993) is a Comorian international footballer who plays for French team Selongey, as a midfielder.\n\nImamo has played for Savigny-le-Temple, Longvic, Quétigny and Selongey.\n\nHe made his international debut for Comoros in 2016.\n"}
{"id": "24448957", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24448957", "title": "Al-Yarmouk FC (Jordan)", "text": "Al-Yarmouk FC (Jordan)\n\nAl-Yarmouk FC () is Jordan a football, formed in Amman in 1967, the club is currently part of the Jordan Premier League.\n\nSource:\n\n\n"}
{"id": "27977983", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=27977983", "title": "Bahamas at the 1972 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Bahamas at the 1972 Summer Paralympics\n\nThe Bahamas made its Paralympic Games début at the 1972 Summer Paralympics in Heidelberg, West Germany. The country's delegation consisted in a single athlete, John Sands. Sands competed in one event: the men's 60m wheelchair sprint, in category 1B. He completed his race in 34.8s, which placed him 22nd overall in the heats, and did not enable him to advance to the final. The event was ultimately won by West German athlete Baumgartner , in 19s.\n\n"}
{"id": "3724492", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3724492", "title": "Barthélemy Boganda Stadium", "text": "Barthélemy Boganda Stadium\n\nStade Barthélemy Boganda, in Bangui, is the national stadium of the Central African Republic. It is located at Complexe Sportif Barthélemy Boganda and it is currently used mostly for football matches. The stadium has a capacity of 20,000 people. It is named after the former president of the country, Barthélemy Boganda.\n\nIt was first constructed in 2003 by the Chinese company \"Complan\", it first started on 16 June 2006 and completed on 30 December by president François Bozizé\n\nThe stadium is home to one of several popular clubs in the country including AS Tempête Mocaf\n\n"}
{"id": "14658112", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=14658112", "title": "Bassa S.C.", "text": "Bassa S.C.\n\nBassa Sports Club is an Antigua and Barbuda football team playing in the local top division. They have won the premier league many times. It is based in All Saints.\n\nBassa have clinched the Antiguan league title five times. They took part in the CFU Club Championship in 2004, 2005 and 2007 in an attempt to qualify for the CONCACAF Champions' Cup.\n\n\n\n\nNationality given from place of birth\n"}
{"id": "28057568", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28057568", "title": "Battle of the Bowling Alley", "text": "Battle of the Bowling Alley\n\nIn the Battle of the Bowling Alley (August 12–25, 1950), United Nations (UN) forces defeated North Korean forces early in the Korean War near the city of Taegu, South Korea. The battle took place in a narrow valley, dubbed the \"Bowling Alley\", which was north of Taegu. It followed a week of fighting between the Korean People's Army (KPA) 13th Division and the Republic of Korea Army's (ROK) 1st Division along the latter's last defensible line in the hills north of the city. Reinforcements, including the US Army's 27th and 23rd Infantry Regiments were committed to bolster the South Koreans' defenses. This battle and several others were smaller engagements of the Battle of Pusan Perimeter.\n\nFor another week, North Korean divisions launched all the troops they had in massed attacks against the ROK and US lines. Their attacks, which usually occurred at night and were supported by armor and artillery, advanced with infantry and tanks in close support of one another. Each North Korean attack ran into well-established UN lines, where US tanks, mines and entrenched infantry were positioned to counter them. Strikes by US aircraft ravaged the attacking North Koreans. The fighting was fierce with many casualties on both sides, particularly where the North and South Koreans fought one another. The repeated attacks eventually broke and pushed back the North Korean forces. They continued their push against the Pusan Perimeter until they were outflanked in the Battle of Inchon.\n\nFollowing the invasion of the South Korea by North Korea on June 25, 1950, the UN voted to use force to defend South Korea. The United States, a member of the UN, simultaneously committed ground forces to the Korean peninsula with the goal of pushing back the North Korean invasion and preventing South Korea from collapsing. But US forces in the Far East had been steadily decreasing since the end of World War II, five years earlier, and at the time the closest force was the 24th Infantry Division, headquartered in Japan. The division was understrength, and most of its equipment was antiquated due to reductions in military spending. Nevertheless, the 24th was ordered to South Korea.\n\nThe 24th Infantry Division was the first US unit sent into Korea with the mission to take the initial \"shock\" of North Korean advances, delaying much larger North Korean units to buy time to allow reinforcements to arrive. The division fought for several weeks while the 1st Cavalry, 7th Infantry and 25th Infantry Divisions and Eighth United States Army supporting units were arriving. Advance elements of the 24th were badly defeated in the Battle of Osan on July 5, the first encounter between American and North Korean forces. For the first month after the defeat at Osan, the 24th Infantry Division was repeatedly defeated and forced south by superior North Korean numbers and equipment. The regiments of the division were systematically pushed south in engagements around Chochiwon, Chonan, and Pyongtaek. The 24th was finally annihilated in the Battle of Taejon, but was able to delay the North Korean forces until July 20. By that time, the Eighth Army's force of combat troops were roughly equal to North Korean forces attacking the region, with new UN units arriving every day.\n\nAfter the fight at Taejon, UN forces were pushed back repeatedly before finally halting the North Korean advance in a series of engagements in the southern section of the country. Forces of the 3rd Battalion, 29th Infantry, newly arrived in the country, were wiped out at Hadong in a coordinated ambush by North Korean forces on July 27, opening a pass to the Pusan area from the west. Soon after, North Korean forces took Chinju, east of Hadong, pushing back the US 19th Infantry Regiment and leaving routes to Pusan open to direct North Korean attacks. The UN formations were subsequently able to defeat the North Koreans in the Battle of the Notch on August 2, halting their advance from the west. Suffering mounting losses, the KPA force withdrew for several days to re-equip and receive reinforcements. This granted both sides a reprieve to prepare for the attack on the Pusan Perimeter.\n\nMeanwhile, the Eighth Army commander Lieutenant General Walton Walker had established Taegu as his headquarters. At the center of the Pusan Perimeter line, Taegu stood at the entrance to the Naktong River valley, an area where North Korean forces could advance in large numbers in close support. The natural barriers provided by the Naktong River to the south and the mountainous terrain to the north converged around Taegu, a transportation hub and the last major South Korean city aside from Pusan itself to remain in UN hands. From south to north, the city was defended by the US 1st Cavalry Division, the ROK 1st Division and the 6th Division, which were under the command of ROK II Corps. The 1st Cavalry Division was spread out along a long line on the Naktong River to the south, with its 5th Cavalry and 8th Cavalry regiments holding a line along the river south of Waegwan, facing west. The 7th Cavalry held position to the east in reserve, along with artillery forces, ready to reinforce anywhere a North Korean crossing could be attempted. The ROK 1st Division held a northwest-facing line in the mountains immediately north of the city while the ROK 6th Division held position to the east, guarding the narrow valley holding the Kunwi road into the Pusan Perimeter area.\n\nFive North Korean divisions amassed around Taegu to oppose the UN forces in the city. From south to north, the 10th, 3rd, 15th, 13th, and 1st North Korean Divisions occupied a wide line encircling Taegu from Tuksong-dong and around Waegwan to Kunwi. The North Korean army planned to use the natural corridor of the Naktong River valley from Sangju to Taegu as its main axis of attack for the next push south, so the KPA divisions all eventually moved through this valley, crossing the Naktong at different areas along the low ground. Elements of the NK 105th Armored Division also supported the attack.\n\nDuring mid-August, the US 27th Infantry Regiment was mopping up North Korean resistance from the southern part of the Naktong Bulge area to counter a North Korean attack there. The regiment, temporarily attached to the US 24th Infantry Division, was recalled by the Eighth Army when a new North Korean threat formed to the north of Taegu, alarming Walker. Acting on the threat, Walker relieved the regiment from the 24th Infantry Division on August 14 and the next day ordered it northward to Kyongsan as a reserve force. Arriving at Kyongsan on August 16, Colonel John H. Michaelis, 27th Infantry's commander, was ordered to reconnoiter routes east, north, northwest, and west of Kyongsan and counter any North Korean attacks from these directions. During the day, two North Korean T-34 tanks came through the ROK 1st Division lines north of Taegu at Tabu-dong, but South Korean 3.5-inch bazooka teams knocked out both of them. The ROK 1st Division, also in the area, was ordered to assemble in the hills around the road and wait for reinforcements or make a last stand if needed to prevent the North Koreans from coming any closer to Taegu. To its east was the ROK 6th Division and to its west was the Naktong River.\nAt 12:00 the next day, August 17, Eighth Army ordered the 27th Infantry to move its headquarters and a reinforced battalion \"without delay\" to a point across the Kumho River north of Taegu on the road from Tabu-dong to Sangju \"to secure Taegu from enemy penetration\" from that direction. South Korean sources reported a North Korean regiment, led by six T-34 tanks, had entered the village of Kumhwa, north of Tabu-dong. The 1st Battalion, 27th Infantry, a platoon of the Heavy Mortar Company, and most of the 8th Field Artillery Battalion moved north to Ch'ilgok where the ROK 1st Division command post was located. By nightfall, the entire 27th Regiment was north of Taegu on the Tabu-dong road, reinforced by C Company, 73rd Tank Battalion. US Army commanders also ordered the 37th Field Artillery Battalion to move from the area around Kyongju and P'ohang-dong, where a heavy battle had been in progress for days, for attachment to the US 27th Infantry Regiment in order to reinforce the 8th Field Artillery Battalion above Taegu. It arrived there the next day. At the front, ROK 1st Division commander Brigadier General Paik Sun-yup assumed senior command of the 27th Infantry and the other US units, to the chagrin of Michaelis.\n\nIn its engagements during the Perimeter battle, the KPA 13th Division, with 9,500 men, had forced South Korean troops into the Tabu-dong corridor and started advancing on Taegu. This division had battled the ROK 11th and 12th Regiments in the Yuhak-san area for a week before it broke through to the corridor on August 17. A regimental commander of the division said later it suffered 1,500 casualties in the process. On August 18, the 13th Division was concentrated mostly west of the road just north of Tabu-dong.\n\nTo the west of the KPA 13th Division, the KPA 15th Division with 5,000 men was also deployed on Yuhak-san. It, too, had begun battling the ROK 1st Division, but thus far only in minor engagements. The North Korean High Command then ordered the KPA 15th Division to move from its position northwest of Tabu-dong eastward, to the Yongch'on front, where the KPA 8th Division had tried and failed to advance to the Taegu lateral corridor. The KPA 15th Division left the Yuhak-san area on August 20. Meanwhile, the KPA 1st Division, to the east of the 13th, advanced to the Kunwi area, north of Taegu. The North Korean command ordered it to proceed to the Tabu-dong area and maneuver astride the 13th Division for the attack on Taegu down the Tabu-dong corridor. At the same time, the North Koreans received their only substantial tank reinforcements during the Pusan Perimeter fighting. On August 15, the KPA 105th Armored Division received 21 new T-34 tanks and 200 troop replacements, which it distributed to the divisions attacking Taegu. The tank regiment with the KPA 13th Division reportedly had 14 T-34 tanks.\n\nOn August 18, the KPA 13th Division was astride the Sangju–Taegu road just above Tabu-dong and only from Taegu. The Eighth Army ordered the 27th Infantry Regiment to attack north along the road to counter the threat. At the same time, two regiments of the ROK 1st Division were to attack along high ground on either side of the road. The plan called for a limited-objective attack to restore the ROK 1st Division lines in the vicinity of Sokchok, a village north of Tabu-dong. M26 Pershing tanks of C Company, 73rd Tank Battalion, and two batteries of the 37th Field Artillery Battalion were to support the 27th Infantry in the attack.\n\nIn front of the 27th Infantry position, the poplar-lined Taegu–Sangju road ran northward in the narrow mountain valley. A stream on the west closely paralleled the road, which was nearly straight on a north-south axis through the 27th Infantry position and for some distance northward. This stretch of the road later became known as the \"Bowling Alley.\" About in front of the 27th Infantry position the road forked at a small village called Ch'onp'yong-dong; the western prong was the main Sangju road, the eastern one was the road to Kunwi. At the road fork, the Sangju road bends to the northwest in a long curve. The village of Sinjumak lay on this curve a short distance north of the fork. Hills protected it against direct fire from the 27th Infantry position. It was there that the North Korean tanks remained hidden during the daytime.\n\nRising from the valley on the west side was the Yuhak-san mountain range which swept up to a height of . On the east, a similar mountain range rose to a height of , culminating southward in a mountain called Ka-san, more than high at its walled summit. The Kunwi and Sangju roads from the northeast and northwest entered the natural and easy corridor between Yuhak-san and Ka-san at Ch'onp'yong-dong, leading into the Taegu basin. The battles in the Bowling Alley occurred south of this road junction.\n\nThe ROK 1st Infantry Division, with 7,500 men had held the line around the Bowling Alley since August 12. The Bowling Alley area was selected because of its advantageous high ground which provided natural barriers to funnel North Korean troops into smaller fronts where South Korean defenses could attack them from the high ground in concealed positions. In the meantime, the KPA 3rd, 13th, and 15th Divisions were advancing south and preparing to close on Taegu. The KPA 13th Division converged on the Tabu-dong corridor and a vicious melee ensued between the North and South Korean troops, with ROK 1st Division's 11th, 12th, and 13th regiments committed against the KPA 13th Division's 19th, 21st and 23rd regiments. The fight became a battle of attrition. As the two sides closed on one another, the battle took a brutal turn by August 15 as supplies ran low and units were locked in close quarters combat with little ammunition for the weapons. Fighting across the entire front became hand-to-hand combat and grenade fights at close range. The two divisions were so evenly matched that neither could make any appreciable gains for days of fighting and huge numbers of casualties.\n\nThe bloody fighting obliged Paik to call for emergency reinforcements to hold the line. The Eighth Army responded immediately by sending the US 27th Infantry as well as the ROK 10th Regiment from the ROK 8th Division to reinforce the ROK 1st Division's three regiments. US Air Force aircraft also conducted a carpet bombing campaign against the advancing North Korean positions to undetermined effect. Around that time the KPA 15th Division, which had been supporting the KPA 13th Division, withdrew from the front to attack elsewhere, leaving the ROK 1st Division, with the US 27th Infantry, and the KPA 13th Division as principal opponents in the conflict that followed.\n\nAs the 27th Infantry's trucks rolled northward from Tabu-dong and approached their Line of Departure, the men inside could see the North Koreans and South Koreans fighting on the ridges overlooking the road. The infantry dismounted and deployed an attacking line, with the 1st Battalion on the left of the road and the 2nd Battalion on the right. With US tanks leading the infantry on the road, the two battalions crossed the line at 13:00. The tanks opened fire against the mountain escarpments to aid the South Korean infantry engaged there. The US infantry on either side of the road swept the lower hills, as the tanks on the road paced their advance with the infantry. A North Korean outpost line in the valley withdrew and there was almost no North Korean opposition during the first hour of the US advance. North Korean outpost lines were in front of their main positions. The 27th Infantry had reached a point about north of Tabu-dong when Michaelis was informed that neither of the ROK regiments on the high ground flanking the valley road had been able to advance. He was ordered to halt and form a perimeter defense with both battalions astride the road.\n\nThe two battalions of the 27th Infantry went into a perimeter defense just north of the village of Soi-ri. The 1st Battalion, on the left of the road, took a position with C Company on high ground in front, and with A Company on a ridge behind it. On their right, B Company was placed parallel to A Company, and carried the line across the stream and the narrow valley to the road. There the 2nd Battalion took up the defense line with E Company on the road and F Company on its right, while G Company held a ridge behind F Company. Thus, the two battalions presented a four-company front, with one company holding a refused flank position on either side. A platoon of tanks took positions on the front line, two tanks on the road and two in the stream bed, with four more tanks in reserve. The artillery went into firing positions behind the force. Six bazooka teams took up positions in front of the infantry positions along the road and in the stream bed. At the same time, the ROK 1st Division remained in control of the high ground on either side of the 27th Infantry positions.\n\nThe first of seven successive North Korean night attacks struck the 27th Infantry defensive perimeter shortly after dark that night, August 18. North Korean mortars and artillery fired a heavy preparation for the general attack for several hours. Two T-34 tanks and an SU-76 self-propelled gun moved out of the village of Sinjumak in front of the 27th Infantry lines. Infantry followed them, some in trucks and others on foot. The lead tank moved slowly and without firing, apparently observing, while the second one and the SU-76 fired repeatedly into F Company's position. As the tanks drew near, a 3.5-inch bazooka team from F Company destroyed the second one in the line.\n\nBazooka teams also hit the lead tank, causing its crew to abandon it. Fire from the 8th Field Artillery Battalion knocked out the self-propelled gun, destroyed two trucks, and killed or wounded an estimated 100 North Korean troops at the point of the advance. US First Lieutenant Lewis Millett, an artillery forward observer and later a Medal of Honor winner after he transferred to the infantry, directed this artillery fire on the North Koreans, even as a T-34 tank approached within of his position. Three more North Korean tanks had come down the road but, on realizing that the Americans had effective anti-tank weapons, they switched on their running lights and retreated north without engaging the UN troops. Around 00:30 on August 19 the first North Korean attack had stalled and they withdrew. North Korean troops made a second effort, much weaker than the first, around 02:30, but artillery and mortar fire dispersed them before they reached the UN lines.\n\nOver the course of the next week, the US troops were able to discern the North Koreans' system of attack and use it to their advantage. The North Koreans used a system of flares to signal various actions and coordinate them. It quickly became apparent to the defending Americans that green flares were used to signal an attack on a given area. So the 27th Infantry obtained its own green flares and then, after the North Korean attack had begun, fired them over its main defensive positions. This confused the attacking forces and often drew them to the points of greatest US strength where they suffered massive casualties from defensive machine-gun crossfire. The US troops also began using land mines in front of their positions to stall the North Koreans. The mines stopped the tanks and the infantry tried to remove them. When this happened, US troops fired flares to illuminate the scene and pre-registered artillery and mortar fire blasted the immobilized North Koreans. This tactic was effective in inflicting further significant casualties.\n\nOn the morning of August 19, the ROK 11th and 13th Regiments launched counterattacks along the ridges with some gains, however the fight continued to produce heavy casualties for both sides. Walker ordered another reserve unit, a battalion of the ROK 10th Regiment, to the Taegu front to close a gap between the ROK 1st and 6th Divisions. Later in the day, Walker also ordered the US 23rd Infantry Regiment, under command of Colonel Paul L. Freeman, Jr., to move up and establish a defense perimeter around the 8th and 37th Field Artillery Battalions at their positions north of Taegu, to protect them from North Korean attack. This was the only occasion during the war that two US regiments were assigned to a South Korean command. The 3rd Battalion, 23rd Infantry took up a defensive position around the artillery while the 2nd Battalion occupied a defensive position on the road behind the 27th Infantry. The next day the two battalions exchanged places. South Korean troops, suffering losses from the fighting, began recruiting students and civilians from nearby villages to fight.\nThere was little fighting on the ground during the day on August 20. However, US aircraft attacked North Korean positions around Taegu repeatedly during the day, often in close proximity to American ground forces. As night fell, North Korean troops launched a second attack, firing a barrage of 120–mm. mortar shells into the 27th Infantry's Heavy Weapons Company area at 17:00; several of their tanks also began advancing down the corridor. The US troops responded with artillery and mortar fire, hitting the North Korean column and its accompanying infantry. Waiting Americans held their small arms and machine gun fire until the North Koreans were within of their positions. The combined fire of all the US weapons repulsed this attack.\n\nThe next morning, August 21, a US patrol of two platoons of infantry and M26 Pershing tanks went up the road toward the North Korean positions. White flags had appeared in front of the American line, and civilians in the area said many North Koreans wanted to surrender. The US patrol's mission was to investigate this situation and to form an estimate of North Koreans losses. The patrol advanced about , engaging small North Korean groups and receiving some artillery fire. On its way it destroyed five disabled North Korean tanks with thermite grenades. The patrol also found a 37 mm anti-tank gun, two SU-76 self-propelled guns, and a 120 mm mortar among the destroyed North Korean equipment, as well as recognizing a large number of North Korean dead. At the point of farthest advance, the patrol found and destroyed an abandoned T-34 tank in a village schoolhouse courtyard.\n\nThat evening, the 27th Infantry placed two belts of antipersonnel mines and trip flares across the road and stream bed and in front of its positions in the valley. After dusk, the North Koreans began shelling the general area of the 27th Infantry positions until just before midnight. ROK troops had planned to mount an attack, but it became apparent that the North Koreans would hit first. Then the KPA 13th Division launched a major attack against the entire UN front in and around the valley. Nine US tanks supported the infantry troops in the valley. Because it was on higher ground and positioned in front of all the other American units, C Company on the left of the road usually was the first to detect an approaching attack. That evening the C Company commander telephoned the regimental headquarters that he could hear tanks. When the artillery fired an illuminating shell he was able to count 19 North Korean vehicles in the attacking column on the road. The tanks and self-propelled guns approached the American positions, firing rapidly. Most of their shells landed in the rear areas. North Korean infantry moved forward on both sides of the road. Simultaneously, other North Korean units attacked the ROK troops on the high ridges flanking the valley.\n\nAmerican artillery and mortar fire bombarded the North Koreans, trying to separate the tanks from the infantry. US machine gun fire opened on the KPA infantry only after they had entered the mine field and were at close range. The US Pershing tanks in the front line held their fire until the North Korean tanks came very close. One of the American tanks knocked out the lead North Korean tank and a bazooka team from F Company knocked out a towed gun, the third vehicle in column. The trapped second tank was disabled by bazooka fire and abandoned by its crew. It was during this fight that the battle received its name. The US troops at the battle noted the tank shells being fired up and down the valley in the dark looked \"like bowling balls.\"\n\nArtillery and 90 mm tank fire destroyed seven more North Korean T-34 tanks, three more SU-76 towed guns, and several trucks and personnel carriers. This night battle, which was at times very intense, lasted about five hours. The US B Battery, 8th Field Artillery Battalion alone fired 1,661 105 mm rounds, the 4.2-inch mortar platoon fired 902 rounds, the 81 mm mortar platoon fired 1,200 rounds, and F Company, 27th Infantry fired 385 60 mm mortar rounds. The North Korean column was completely destroyed. US patrols after daylight estimated the North Koreans had suffered 1,300 casualties in the fight. Eleven prisoners captured by the patrol said the action had decimated their units and that the division was only at 25 percent strength.\n\nDuring the night battle, North Korean forces infiltrated along the high ridge line around the east flank of the 27th Infantry and appeared the next day at about 12:00 in the rear of that regiment and only from Taegu. This force was a regiment of the KPA 1st Division and was 1,500 men strong. The regiment had just arrived from the Kunwi area to join in the battle for Taegu. It began ambushing supply lines to the American forces in the valley. One of the regiment's companies attacked the ROK 1st Division's headquarters with intent to capture Paik, but was repulsed by the ROK 10th Regiment.\n\nAbout this time, Michaelis sent an urgent message to Eighth Army saying that the ROK troops on his left had given way and that \"those people are not fighting.\" One of the battalions of the ROK 11th Regiment had been driven back and was retreating in disarray. Prisoners told him that about 1,000 North Koreans were on his west flank. He asked for an air strike. Had these South Korean troops been driven from this high ground, the perimeter position of the 27th Infantry Regiment would have been untenable. Paik bitterly resented Michaelis' charge that his men were not fighting, and in the argument, Eighth Army Korean Military Advisory Group advisers visited each ROK unit to ensure they were remaining in position. Paik personally rallied the ROK 11th Regiment for a charge back into its positions, impressing Michaelis. Later, Michaelis apologized to Paik though their relationship for the remainder of the battle remained strained.\n\nOn the afternoon of August 22, 2nd Battalion, 23rd Infantry, guarding the support artillery behind the 27th Infantry, came under attack by the KPA 1st Division troops that had passed around the forward positions. Freeman reported to Eighth Army at 16:40 that the North Koreans had shelled the rear battery of the 37th Field Artillery Battalion, that North Korean infantry were between the US 27th and US 23rd Regiments on the road, and that other North Korean groups had passed around the east side of his forward battalion. An intense artillery barrage began falling on the headquarters area of the 8th Field Artillery Battalion at 16:05, and 25 minutes later two direct hits destroyed the fire direction center, killing four officers and two non-commissioned officers. The individual batteries quickly took over control of the battalion fires and continued to support the infantry, while the battalion Headquarters and Headquarters Company withdrew under fire.\n\nUN aircraft launched air strikes on the North Korean-held ridge east of the road and on the valley beyond. That night, Walker released control of the 23rd Infantry, less the 1st Battalion, to the US 1st Cavalry Division with orders for it to clear the North Koreans from the road and the commanding ground overlooking the main supply route.\n\nAbout 10:00, Lieutenant Colonel Chong Pong Uk, commanding the artillery regiment supporting the KPA 13th Division, walked up alone to a ROK 1st Division position north of Tabu-dong and defected. Chong, the highest ranking North Korean prisoner of war thus far in the war, gave precise information on the location of his artillery. According to him, there were seven 122 mm howitzers and thirteen 76 mm guns emplaced and camouflaged in an orchard north of Tabu-dong, in a little valley on the north side of Yuhak-san. Upon receiving this information, Eighth Army immediately prepared to destroy the North Korean weapons. Fighter-bombers attacked the orchard site with napalm, and US artillery took the location under fire. Chong was eventually commissioned in South Korea's armed forces.\n\nDuring the night of August 22–23, the North Koreans launched a weak attack against the 27th Infantry, which was quickly repulsed. Just before 12:00 on August 23, however, a violent action occurred some distance behind the front line when about 100 North Korean soldiers, undetected, succeeded in reaching the positions of K Company, 27th Infantry and of the 1st Platoon, C Company, 65th Engineer Combat Battalion. They overran parts of these positions before being driven off and suffering 50 killed. Meanwhile, as ordered by Walker, the 2nd Battalion, 23rd Infantry, after repelling several North Korean night attacks, counterattacked at dawn and seized the high ground overlooking the road at the artillery positions. At the same time the 3rd Battalion started an all-day attack that swept a stretch of high ground east of the road. This action largely cleared the North Koreans from the area behind and on the flanks of the 27th Infantry. At 13:35, Michaelis reported from the Bowling Alley to Eighth Army that the KPA 13th Division had blown the road to his front, had mined it, and was withdrawing.\n\nThe next day, August 24, the 23rd Infantry continued clearing the rear areas and by night it estimated that there were fewer than 200 North Koreans behind the forward positions. The Bowling Alley front was quiet during the day. Shortly after midnight on August 24 the North Koreans launched what had by now become their regular nightly attack down the Bowling Alley. This attack was in an estimated two-company strength supported by a few tanks. The 27th Infantry broke up the attack and two more North Korean tanks were destroyed by the supporting artillery fire. This was the last night the 27th Infantry Regiment spent in the Bowling Alley.\n\nWith the North Koreans turned back north of Taegu, Walker issued orders for the 27th Infantry to leave the Bowling Alley and return to the 25th Division in the Masan area. The ROK 1st Division was to assume responsibility for the Bowling Alley, but the 23rd Infantry was to remain north of Taegu in its support. ROK relief of the 27th Infantry began at 18:00, 25 August, and continued throughout the night until completed at 03:45 August 26. Survivors of the 1st Regiment, KPA 1st Division, joined the rest of that division in the mountains east of the Taegu–Sangju road near the walled summit of Ka-san. Prisoners reported that the 1st Regiment was down to about 400 men and had lost all its 120 mm mortars, 76 mm howitzers, and antitank guns as a result of its action on the east flank of the KPA 13th Division at the Bowling Alley.\n\nThe confirmed North Korean losses from August 18 to 25 included 13 T-34 tanks, five SU-76 self-propelled guns, and 23 trucks. The KPA 13th Division's troops suffered heavy casualties during the fight, with an estimated 3,000 killed, wounded and captured. The division withdrew to rebuild. The North Koreans' total casualties from August 12 to 25 were 5,690 killed.\n\nUS losses during the battle were extremely light; unusual for fighting at a time in which other UN offensive forces were paying a heavy price when making similar pushes against the North Korean troops. The US infantry forces suffered only five killed and 54 wounded in the 27th Infantry, plus three killed and 16 wounded in the 23rd Infantry. This brought the total American casualty count to 8 dead, 70 wounded. South Korean troops suffered much more heavily during the fight. An estimated 2,300 South Korean men were killed in the fighting; 2,244 enlisted men and 56 officers. However, these losses were not crippling, as volunteers poured in from the surrounding countryside to fight for the South Korean Army.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "10425307", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=10425307", "title": "Club Hípico de Concepción", "text": "Club Hípico de Concepción\n\nClub Hipico de Concepcion, also called the Mediocamino, is a Thoroughbred race track in Hualpen near Concepcion in the Bio-Bio Region of Chile. It features a right-handed nine-furlong dirt track. Currently, no major races are run at the Mediocamino.\n\nFour-time American Champion jockey Jose Santos, a native of Concepcion, started his career at the track.\n\n"}
{"id": "5104416", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=5104416", "title": "Coastal Plain League", "text": "Coastal Plain League\n\nThe Coastal Plain League (CPL) is a wood-bat collegiate summer league, featuring college players recruited from throughout the nation. The league takes its name from a Class D minor league baseball league which operated in the area from 1937 to 1952. The modern league was formed with six teams in 1997. The league has expanded over the years with teams across North Carolina, South Carolina, Virginia, and Georgia, with the 2018 addition of the Macon Bacon being the most recent addition.\n\nThe league was founded in 1997 by Pete Bock. Bock conceived the idea in the early 1990s while traveling long distances to the Valley Baseball League in Virginia to see his son, Jeff, play summer baseball. Bock, an experienced sports executive, wanted a collegiate summer league closer to his home. He acted on this and the Coastal Plain league began play for the 1997 season.\n\n\"Playoff seedings based on overall record, so division champions listed are based on overall record.\"\n\n\n"}
{"id": "24418252", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24418252", "title": "Cowboy polo", "text": "Cowboy polo\n\nCowboy polo is a variation of polo played mostly in the western United States. Like regular polo, it is played in chukkas (periods) with two teams on horses who use mallets to hit a ball through a goal. It differs from traditional polo in that five riders make up a team instead of four, western saddles and equipment are used, and the playing field is usually a simple rodeo arena or other enclosed dirt area, indoors or out. Also, instead of the small ball used in traditional polo, the players use a large red rubber medicine ball and use mallets with long fiberglass shafts and hard rubber heads.\n\nThe horse breed most often used for cowboy polo is the American Quarter Horse, due to its agility. Unlike regular polo, where multiple horses are used within a single game, riders do not change horses between chukkas, but instead are only allowed two horses, and in some competitions are required to ride one horse throughout. This ability to compete with relatively few animals has given the sport its nickname, the \"average man's\" sport. Horses competing in cowboy polo are often older, experienced animals with steady dispositions who have come to understand the basic purpose of the game and can assist their riders.\n\nCowboy polo originated in New Smyrna Beach, Florida, in 1952, where it was called \"Palmetto Polo\". The name came from the mallet handles, which were made out of palm. It was renamed \"cowboy polo\" in 1959. As it came west, it was connected almost entirely to the membership of sheriff's posses, groups primarily dedicated to mounted search and rescue, consisting of deputized law enforcement volunteers. While participation was once limited to men only, women were admitted to the sport in the mid-1990s. It reached its peak of popularity during the 1970s, with clubs from Texas to Montana, as well as clubs in Australia. However, since then, cowboy polo has been in decline, with the national organization disbanding in 2005. Today, the sport is almost exclusively played in Montana. Even in Montana, where there were once 30 clubs, there are now only five.\n\nThough the sport has written rules, the most commonly enforced rule is unwritten: any rider who falls off his or her horse must buy beer for the entire team.\n\nTeams consist of five players, with two horseback referees and two goal spotters. Riders are limited to two horses per game, though most players use one horse throughout. The game is played in four periods of 15 minutes each, called, as in regular polo, \"chukkas.\" There are mandatory four-minute rest periods at the end of each chukka and a nine-minute break at half time. Each team is allowed four two-minute time outs during the game. Teams switch ends at each chukka.\n\nThe field is divided widthwise into four sections or zones, and one center zone of . Each team has one player assigned to each zone with the goal of hitting the ball toward the opponents' goal. If a player crosses into another zone, the team loses control of the ball to the other team. The goal areas are each and located at each end of the arena. The arena is generally wide.\n\nA goal made from the first zone is worth one point. Goals made from the second zone from the goal, without being touched by either player in the first zone is worth two points. An untouched goal from the center zone counts for three points. Balls knocked out of the field are returned to the spot where the ball exited the field and the opposing team takes control of the ball.\n\nUnruly or disobedient horses may be asked to leave the field, as will players who endanger other players unnecessarily. Equipment failure during the game that presents a danger to a player or horse results in a safety time out called by the referee.\n\nSafety is of paramount importance. There are 32 rules of play, including 11 types of personal fouls, including “reaching across an opposing player’s horse,” or “riding into and hitting an opposing player’s horse in front or back of the saddle with his/her horse’s front quarters, at greater than a 45-degree angle.”\n\nThe ball for cowboy polo is a red rubber medicine ball. The polo mallet has a maximum length of . It was traditionally made of cane but can be made of fiberglass. Saddles must be American western saddles or Australian stock saddles. Participants are strongly encouraged to have their horses wear polo bandages or splint boots. Use of a breast collar is optional. There are no specific rules for horse headgear, as long as the equipment is humane. Tie-downs are allowed, but officials may require the removal of any piece of equipment liable to cause discomfort to the horse.\n\nFor riders, hats or headgear is required. Most riders now wear some form of equestrian helmet or other protective headgear, such as a cricket helmet with a face guard. However, Western or Australian style felt hats may be worn. Extra protective clothing such as knee and shin guards, is optional, though they must not be hard or sharp edged to prevent injury to your opponent or his/her horse. Riders also must wear jeans, riding boots and a shirt in the specified club color.\n"}
{"id": "40482386", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=40482386", "title": "Dutee Chand", "text": "Dutee Chand\n\nDutee Chand (born 3 February 1996) is an Indian professional sprinter and current national champion in the women's 100 metres event. She is the third Indian woman to ever qualify for the Women's 100 metres event at the Summer Olympic Games. However in the 2016 Summer Olympics, her 11.69s in the prelimary round did not make her qualify to the next round. In 2018 Chand clinched silver in women's 100m at the Jakarta Asian Games. It was India's first medal in 20 years in this event since 1998.\n\nChand was born on 3 February 1996 to Chakradhar Chand and Akhuji Chand in the Jajpur district of Odisha. She is from a below poverty line weavers family. Her source of inspiration comes from her elder sister Saraswati Chand, who competed in running at a state level. In 2013, she enrolled in the KIIT University to study law. She is presently employed as an executive officer in the prestigious state PSU The Odisha Mining Corporation Ltd.\n\nIn 2012, Dutee chand became a national champion in the under-18 category, when she clocked 11.8 seconds in the 100 metres event. \n\nClocking 23.811 seconds, Chand won the bronze in the Women's 200 metres event at the 2013 Asian Athletics Championships at Pune. The year also saw her become the first Indian to reach the final of a global athletics 100 metres final, when she reached the final in the 2013 World Youth Championships. In the same year, she became the national champion in 100 metres and 200 metres when she won the events clocking 11.73 s in the final in 100 metres and a career-best 23.73 s in 200 metres at the National Senior Athletics Championships at Ranchi.\n\nIn June 2014, she won two gold medals at Asian Junior Athletics Championships in 200 metres and 4x400m relays. In the 200 m event she bettered her previous timing to 23.74 secs and hoping to get qualified for the Commonwealth Games but Chand was dropped from the 2014 Commonwealth Games contingent at the last minute after the Athletic Federation of India stated that hyperandrogenism made her ineligible to compete as a female athlete. Following Commonwealth Games she was also dropped from Indian contingent for 2014 Asian Games. There has been no suggestion that Chand has been involved in cheating or doping—the decision was made in compliance with International Olympic Committee (IOC) regulations on “female hyperandrogenism” designed to address a perceived advantage for female athletes with high androgen levels. The decision has been condemned by Australian intersex advocates. The Athletic Federation of India and IAAF’s actions were widely criticised as an affront to Chand’s privacy and human rights.\n\nDutee Chand was raised in India and at an early age, started to compete in running events. She excelled at most of the competitions she was entered in, and by the time she was eighteen she was already competing professionally. [18] Chand was about to compete in the Common Wealth Games in Glasgow. However before she was able to compete in these games, Chand had to go through a series of medical test to be cleared for the games. Not thinking much of it, she went along just to get it over with so she could be ready to compete. When Chand arrived at the facilities, a doctor was the one conducting all of the tests rather than a nurse. Chand did not find this unusual, but what she did find puzzling was the fact that because a nurse was not present, the male doctor would order an ultrasound instead of the routine urine and blood samples that the nurse would normally take care of. [19] Three days later, after Chands appointment, the clinic in which the ultrasound was taken sent a letter out to the Indian Government Sports Authority saying “It has been brought to the notice of the undersigned that there are definite doubts regarding the gender of an Athlete Ms. Dutee Chand.” [20] The letter requested that Chand have a proper gender verification test because of her abnormal testosterone levels. \nA couple days later Chand was sent to a private hospital located in Bangalore where her blood was drawn to test her natural levels of testosterone (even though Chand was unaware of what was being tested). She also was forced to under go a chromosome analysis, an M.R.I. and a gynecological exam in which Chand was quoted as saying her experience with it was “horrifying.” Chand also had to undergo different tests that involved palpating and measuring of the clitoris, as well as measuring breast size and pubic hairs all to be compared on a certain scale. [21] All of these tests where deemed necessary to come to a proper conclusion to see if Dutee Chand is in fact a woman under the standards of the I.A.A.F. (International Association of Athletics Federations). A few days later, the doctor said in his statement that her “male hormone levels” were too high for the standards of what it means to be female according to I.A.A.F. Since Chand’s levels were above the threshold of the “normal” female, she could no longer compete. Since then, Chand has been a part of legal battle not only with her disqualification but also with the international policy’s that discriminates against athletes who do not develop the same way in which other athletes do. [22]\n\nChand appealed to the Court of Arbitration for Sport (CAS). The Canadian law firm Davies, Ward, Philips & Vineberg, LLP represented her on a \"pro bono\" basis. The IAAF policy on hyperandrogenism, or high natural levels of testosterone in women, was suspended following the case of \"Dutee Chand v. Athletics Federation of India (AFI) & The International Association of Athletics Federations (IAAF)\", in the Court of Arbitration for Sport, decided in July 2015. The ruling found that there was a lack of evidence provided that testosterone increased female athletic performance and notified the IAAF that it had two years to provide the evidence. This effectively removes the suspension of Chand from competition, clearing her to race again.\n\nSanthi Soundarajan, acclaimed middle-distance running athlete for India, extended her support to Chand and said the youngster should not be victimized. She expressed her dismay at the lack of sensitivity in the handling of the issue, fearing that Chand's future may have been jeopardized, and demanded that all steps be taken to ensure Chand's return to the track.\n\nAs soon as the hyperandrogenism rule changed, she started took part in track competitions, did participated at the 2016 Asian Indoor Athletics Championships in 60 metres where in the qualification round she made Indian national record to her name clocking 7.28 secs and went on to win the bronze medal in the final, clocking 7.37 secs.\n\nDutee clocked 11.33 secs in women’s 100m dash to win the gold and erase Rachita Mistry’s 16-year-old earlier national record of 11.38 secs in the 2016 Federation Cup National Athletics Championships in New Delhi, however she missed the Rio Olympics qualification norm of 11.32 secs by one-hundredth of a second. But finally on 25 June 2016, Dutee broke the very same National record twice in one day after clocking 11.24 at the XXVI International Meeting G Kosanov Memorial at Almaty, Kazakhstan, thereby qualifying for the Olympic Games.\n\"“I am really happy at the moment, it has been a tough year for me and I am so happy that my coach ... and my hard work has paid off. I would like to thank all the people in India who were praying for me to qualify. Your wishes have paid off.”\", she exclaimed.\n\nAt Rio 2016 Olympics, she became the third Indian woman to participate for the Women's 100 metres, though she did not moved beyond the heats, where she clocked 11.69 seconds.\n\nSince Rio, Chand has been training at Hyderabad with young athletes, most notable among them Indian Badminton Star P. V. Sindhu. The sprinter is glad to have the new training base and P. V. Sindhu as a companion. Despite being the first woman to represent India in the Olympics sprint event in 36 years, Dutee was made to feel isolated due to her condition of hyperandrogenism. After shifting her base she said, “It’s like a home away from home. There are lots of friends to gossip with”.\n\nIn 2017, at Asian Athletics Championships she clinched two bronze medals, one in the Women's 100 metres, another in the Women's 4×100 m relay with Srabani Nanda, Merlin K Joseph and Himashree Roy at Bhubaneswar.\n\nAt the 2018 Asian Games, in the Women's 100 metres finals Dutee won the Silver medal, her first Asian games medal, clocking 11.32 sec on 26 August. Again on 29 August, she bagged her second silver at the Asian games in the Women's 200 metres final. Her silver in 100 m, was India's silver medal in this category after 32 years since P.T.Usha won in 1986 and Chand's first medal in Asian games as she was banned in 2014 and her 200 m silver is after 16 years for India since Saraswati Saha's gold in 2002 at Busan. \n\nAs she won these two silvers after long court battle, it was indeed special for her but she expressed her concern about her future saying, \"My legal team helped me to come back, But nobody could guarantee what will happen in the future.\" Citing Caster Semenya ongoing fight, she said, \"Caster Semenya is still fighting. There is always fear but you need to overcome it.\"\n\nCaster Semenya is the present Olympics Champion and World Champion in Women's 800 metres. She is also affected by the Hyperandrogenism rule of IAAF like that of Dutee but faced different fate. In April 2018, the IAAF announced new rules that required hyperandrogenous athletes to take medication to lower their testosterone levels, effective beginning in November 2018. Due to the narrow scope of the changes, which only apply to athletes competing in the 400m, 800m, and 1500m, many people thought the rule change was designed specifically to target Semenya. \nAt an interview to \"The Indian Express\", Chand expressed her pain and struggle of four years, when she was controversially not allowed to compete in any international events due to hyperandrogenism. \"These four years have been extremely tough for me. The negativity, fear of my career ending prematurely, insensitive comments about my body, I have faced them all. I am extremely relieved that I can run fearlessly again, knowing that now my battle exists only on the track and not off it,\" Dutee told The Indian Express. She said, she was concerned about her “friend” Semenya that she wrote a mail to the multiple Olympic and World Championship winner, offering the South African to take legal help from her own team.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "2276731", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=2276731", "title": "Edward A. LeLacheur Park", "text": "Edward A. LeLacheur Park\n\nEdward A. LeLacheur Park is a baseball park located on the banks of the Merrimack River in Lowell, Massachusetts. It is home to the New York–Penn League Lowell Spinners, the Class A Short Season Affiliate of the Boston Red Sox. LeLacheur Park is also home to the UMass Lowell River Hawks baseball team, which currently competes in the America East Conference at the NCAA Division I level as of the start of the 2014 season.\n\nThe park was built between a partnership with the city of Lowell and the University of Massachusetts Lowell. The park was named for State Representative Edward A. LeLacheur, who led the initial redevelopment of Lowell, and opened in 1998. The park was built adjacent to the residential section of UML. Populous (formerly HOK Sport) designed the park. It offers views of the Aiken Street Bridge, Lawrence Mills, Fox Hall, and University Suites. The seating bowl is raised above the field. A concourse surrounds the top of the park where the refreshment, merchandise stands, and bathrooms are located. The design enables an open view while waiting in line.\n\nTwo seating expansions have been considered since the park opened. One plan would have added 600-1,000 seats on the third base side. The expansion would match how the first base side is angled towards the infield. The other proposal was to add a smaller version of the Green Monster with seating for approximately 200 people. This would also would have shortened the field and raised the wall to . Due to lack of funds, neither have been built.\n\nThe stadium also features the Giant Hood Milk Jug from Fenway Park and all Red Sox retired numbers.\n\nThe ballpark held its first concert on July 10, 2008 when Boston-based Celtic punk band Dropkick Murphys played there with The Mighty Mighty Bosstones.\n\nThe Spinners have had several consecutive sold-out seasons at LeLacheur Park.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "11311890", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=11311890", "title": "El Salvador Fed Cup team", "text": "El Salvador Fed Cup team\n\nThe El Salvador Fed Cup team represents El Salvador in Fed Cup tennis competition and are governed by the Federación Salvadorena de Tenis. They have not competed since 2013.\n\nEl Salvador competed in its first Fed Cup in 1992. Their best result was reaching the Group I promotion play-offs in 2003 and 2004.\n\n"}
{"id": "6914548", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=6914548", "title": "El Sekka El Hadid Stadium", "text": "El Sekka El Hadid Stadium\n\nEl Sekka El Hadid Stadium (), also known as Railway Stadium, is a multi-use stadium in Cairo, Egypt. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is the home of El Sekka El Hadid. The stadium holds 25,000 people.\n"}
{"id": "24877651", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24877651", "title": "Fraternidad Tigres", "text": "Fraternidad Tigres\n\nFraternidad Tigres is a football club from La Paz that plays in the La Paz Primera A, one of the third division regional leagues. The club was founded on 6 June 1999 and plays its home games at the Estadio Hernando Siles.\n"}
{"id": "1404842", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1404842", "title": "Gil Thorp", "text": "Gil Thorp\n\nGil Thorp is a sports-oriented comic strip which has been published since September 8, 1958. The main character, Gil Thorp, is the athletic director of Milford High School and coaches the football, basketball, and baseball teams. In addition to the sports storylines, the strip also deals with issues facing teenagers such as teen pregnancy, steroids, and drug abuse.\n\nThe strip was created by Jack Berrill, who modeled and named Thorp after baseball player Gil Hodges and Olympic athlete Jim Thorpe. Berrill continued the strip until he died of cancer on March 14, 1996. Over the course of his 38 years, Berrill broke ground with many of his stories, often dealing with sensitive social issues of the day. As editorial standards relaxed, he was able to move from stories about jalopies and after-school jobs to topics like teen pregnancy, divorce, and steroids.\n\nUpon Berrill's death, Tribune Media Services chose author Jerry Jenkins (co-author of the \"Left Behind\" novels) to take over writing the strip. Jenkins had been in discussions with TMS about expanding previous \"Gil Thorp\" stories into a series of youth novels and was a logical replacement. Many of Jenkins' stories were written uncredited by his son Chad Jenkins, a baseball coach at Bethel College. The Jenkins stories discussed overtly religious topics which had not appeared in the strip before, including an Orthodox Jewish football player and a 15-year-old pregnant girl whom Thorp talks out of getting an abortion.\n\nIn 2004, Jenkins was followed as writer by \"Detroit News\" columnist Neal Rubin.\n\nThe strip was drawn by Berrill from 1958–1993 until glaucoma forced him to turn the reins over to his Connecticut Cartoonist Associate colleague Warren Sattler. Later Frank Bolle took over. Later Ray Burns took over. Frank McLaughlin took over following Burns' death in 2000. On February 18, 2008, \"Apartment 3G\" artist Frank Bolle again took over art chores for \"Gil Thorp\" on an interim basis. Rod Whigham became the permanent artist two months later.\n\nThe Bucket was an online forum hosted by the \"Chicago Tribune\", named after the teen burger hangout in the strip, The Bucket. It was a lively site for 15 years and featured discussions about the strip and other topics. Members of the community were known as \"Bucketeers\".\n\n"}
{"id": "45000422", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45000422", "title": "Groupement Sportif des Pétroliers Volleyball", "text": "Groupement Sportif des Pétroliers Volleyball\n\nGS Pétroliers is a volleyball Men's team in Algeria. This club belonged to MC Alger since its creation in 1947 until 2008, the year it is purchased and accepted among sports sections of the new sports club, GS Pétroliers which is funded by Sonatrach. <br>\nThis club volleyball with its glorious past as the MC Alger is by far the most powerful and most successful clubs Algerian volleyball.\n\n\n2014-2015\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "3251958", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=3251958", "title": "Half-back line", "text": "Half-back line\n\nIn the sport of Australian rules football, the half-back line refers to the positions of the 3 players on the field that occupy the centre half-back and left and right half-back flank positions.\n\nThe role of the centre half-back is similar to that of a defensive midfielder in association football. As the first line of defence, the centre half-back must aim to break down opposition attacks before they can get into a scoring position. Given that a centre half-back's opponent is usually the centre half-forward, the role is regarded as a \"key position\" in the team, and is usually reserved for tall and well-built players.\n\nAs one of the team's leaders, centre half-backs must be able to read the play and have good communication skills. Although their first responsibility is to defend, the great centre half-backs have proven to be equally creative in attack as well as reliable in defence.\n\nNotable centre half-backs from over the years include:\n\nThe half-back flank was traditionally a defensive position, where reliability and toughness were more important than attacking flair. In the modern game, reliability and toughness must now be combined with the ability to run and carry the ball as well as take on the opposition in a counter-attacking style.\n\nNotable half-back flankers over the years in Australian football include:\n"}
{"id": "47362639", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47362639", "title": "Houssein Djama", "text": "Houssein Djama\n\nHoussein Djama (born 23 July 1968) is a Djiboutian middle-distance athlete.\n\nDjama competed for his country at the 1992 Summer Olympics held in Barcelona, he entered the 1500 metres where he came seventh in his heat so did not qualify for the next round.\n"}
{"id": "30145710", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=30145710", "title": "International Shuffleboard Association", "text": "International Shuffleboard Association\n\nThe International Shuffleboard Association - ISA - was founded in Saint Petersburg, Florida in 1979. Shuffleboard is a competitive game that is often played on ship decks or other large expanses of smooth outdoor surfaces and also at smaller scales on tables indoors. The ISA promotes Shuffleboard competition and travel worldwide. The 2009 Deck Shuffleboard championship in Zephyrhills, Florida at Betmar Shuffleboard Club featured 64 competitors.\n"}
{"id": "50800452", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50800452", "title": "Ireland at the 1992 Summer Paralympics", "text": "Ireland at the 1992 Summer Paralympics\n\nIreland competed at the 1992 Summer Paralympics in Barcelona, Spain. 58 competitors from Ireland won 7 medals including 3 silver and 4 bronze and finished 43rd in the medal table.\n\n"}
{"id": "45468811", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=45468811", "title": "Ivy League Digital Network", "text": "Ivy League Digital Network\n\nIvy League Digital Network was an Internet television website and operated by the Ivy League. The internet network was first available to subscribers in the fall of 2013, and covered all eight of the Ivy League schools. The site used technology provided by NeuLion to feature live and on-demand content from a variety of sports across the eight schools and conference championship events. On April 4, 2018, it was announced that the Ivy League and ESPN agreed having the ESPN platform carry Ivy League athletic competitions. Under the ten year deal, over 1,100 Ivy League events per year across 30 sports will be covered, including certain premier Ivy League events (e.g., the Harvard-Yale football game) which will air on its Linear Networks, but with the majority of sports and events being carried on ESPN+, its new direct-to-consumer streaming service that was launched on April 12, 2018. On July 12, 2018, the Ivy League Digital Network announced that their website would no longer provide services, all users' subscriptions would be automatically cancelled, and user should purchase a subrscription to ESPN+ to continue to watch Ivy League athletic competitions. \n\n\n"}
{"id": "42420394", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=42420394", "title": "Juvenil Reyes", "text": "Juvenil Reyes\n\nJuvenil Reyes Bata is an Equatoguinean football club based in the city of Bata, Equatorial Guinea. The club has played many season in Equatoguinean Premier League.\n\n\nCurrently the team plays at the 22,000 capacity Estadio de Bata.\n"}
{"id": "23124212", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23124212", "title": "Kyle Baseball Field", "text": "Kyle Baseball Field\n\nKyle Baseball Field was a baseball venue located in College Station, TX and was approximate to the football stadium, Kyle Field. The ballpark was installed at the same time as the football stadium in 1904; Texas A&M were one of the original members of the Southwest Conference in 1914 but did not begin baseball until 1915.\n\nAs compared to the more modern Olsen Field, Kyle Baseball Field gave birth to rocks because it was constructed on an ancient parking lot, and the rocks came up through the surface. Each day preceding practice, the team had to line up across the field and went from one end to the other, removing the rocks so the infielders wouldn't get injured in the face from bad hops.\n\nThe ballpark had a grandstand finished in June 1923 which cost $7,500 at the time. With expansion to Kyle Field in 1929, 1954, and 1969, the baseball field, in contrast, kept shrinking. Due to the small capacity of the baseball field, the Aggies had to play the 1959 District 6 playoffs with the University of Arizona at Travis Field in nearby Bryan, TX; the Aggies lost the two games in the double-elimination by identical 1-0 in front of 6,000. From 1972 to 1975, Texas A&M had to make Travis Field their home away from \"home\" because the school representatives took Kyle Baseball Field from the baseball team during another series of augmentation of Kyle Field. The Texas A&M Aggies played their last seasons at Kyle Baseball Field in 1976 and 1977. With the opening of UFCU Disch-Falk Field in Austin in 1975, the Aggies knew they had to construct a new facility in order to compete with their in-state rivals which led to Olsen Field in 1978.\n\nThe Aggies won Southwest Conference titles in 1931, 1934, 1942, 1951 (co-champions with UT-Austin), 1955, 1959, and 1977 while calling Kyle Baseball Field their home.\n\n"}
{"id": "55427681", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=55427681", "title": "Kyushu Soccer League", "text": "Kyushu Soccer League\n\nThe is a Japanese amateur football league, covering the prefecture of eight prefectures (Fukuoka, Saga, Nagasaki, Kumamoto, Oita, Miyazaki, Kagoshima and Okinawa).\n\n"}
{"id": "23108468", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=23108468", "title": "Liam Keoghan", "text": "Liam Keoghan\n\nLiam Keoghan (born 1968 in Tullaroan, County Kilkenny) is an Irish retired sportsperson. He played hurling with his local club Tullaroan and was a member of the Kilkenny senior inter-county team from 1993 until 1998. Keoghan won an All-Ireland senior medal with the Cats in 1993, and in 1997 became the first player in Tullaroan history to capture an All-Star Award.\n\nKeoghan was rewarded for his successes on the field with a place on the Tullaroan Team of the Century.\n"}
{"id": "50952220", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=50952220", "title": "List of World Transplant Games (WTG)", "text": "List of World Transplant Games (WTG)\n\nThe World Transplant Games (WTG) are an international multi-sport event, occurring every two years, organized by the World Transplant Games Federation (WTGF).\n\nSummer:\n\nWinter:\n\nSeniors age groups:\nJuniors age groups:\n\nhttp://wtgf.org/sports-youth/\n\n"}
{"id": "7964652", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7964652", "title": "List of professional sports team owners", "text": "List of professional sports team owners\n\nThis is a list of individuals, groups of individuals, and companies who have owned and operated a professional sports organization. The list is organized first by sport, then by franchise or team, then by Owner. If an organization has gone through a significant change (e.g. the team has moved and/or changed names), that information is noted after the years of ownership.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nIn Japanese baseball, teams are traditionally owned by companies and bear that company's name. Only one team in recent years has not borne a corporate name—the Yokohama BayStars went without a corporate name from 1993 through 2011 because its owner chose not to attach its name to the team. The company identifier is indicated in bold type in the owner list.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\nNote: This list reflects the actual control of the franchise. The ownership structure is considerably more complicated. Notably, it was reported that Al Davis owned only a 47% stake in the team when he died in 2011, although he exercised near-total control as the president of the team's general partner. His widow Carol and son Mark inherited his interest in the team, with Mark exercising day-to-day control. See the relevant section of the team article for more details.\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "13986487", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=13986487", "title": "Long Room", "text": "Long Room\n\nThe Long Room is a notable, historic room at Lord's cricket ground, in St John's Wood, London.\n\nDescribed by Lawrence Booth as \"the most evocative four walls in world cricket\", the Long Room is situated in the Pavilion.\n\nPlayers walk through the Long Room on their way from the dressing rooms to the cricket field; this walk is notoriously long and complex at Lord's. On his Test debut in 1975, David Steele got lost \"and ended up in the pavilion's basement toilets\".\n\nMembers of MCC and their guests have free access to the room (there are windows with views of the ground) and will often greet Australian batsmen with \"witticisms ... like 'See you soon'\". On this point, Australian Justin Langer, described walking through the Long Room like \"being bearhugged by an invisible spirit\".\n\nAs a result of the Pakistan cricket spot-fixing scandal, news of which broke on the last morning of the 2010 Lord's Test match, the presentation ceremony at the end of the match (and series) was held in the Long Room, rather than on the pitch.\n\nThe Long Room has recently been made available on a private hire basis for events such as weddings and conferences.\n\nThe Long Room is lined with paintings of famous cricketers and administrators, from the 18th century to the 21st. For contemporary or overseas players to have their portrait placed here is a considerable honour and very few have been awarded this distinction. For example, only four Australian cricketers have ever been honoured in this way: Sir Donald Bradman, Keith Miller, Victor Trumper and Shane Warne, the only one of the four to have played international cricket in the last 60 years.\n"}
{"id": "8241575", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=8241575", "title": "Luxembourgish Olympic and Sporting Committee", "text": "Luxembourgish Olympic and Sporting Committee\n\nThe Luxembourgian Olympic and Sporting Committee (, , ), abbreviated to COSL, is the National Olympic Committee for Luxembourg.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "15448585", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=15448585", "title": "Major sports event hosting in Britain during the 2010s", "text": "Major sports event hosting in Britain during the 2010s\n\nThe United Kingdom has been awarded, or is bidding to hold, a number of major international sporting events during the 2010s leading to an idea of a 'Golden Decade' in British sport. The idea of the golden decade has been discussed in many newspapers and has been mentioned by former Prime Minister Gordon Brown and Lord Coe.\n\n14–18 April – 2010 European Badminton Championships at the Manchester Arena in Manchester\n\n7–17 July – 2010 Wheelchair Basketball World Championship at the National Indoor Arena in Birmingham\n\n15–24 July – 2010 World Lacrosse Championship at the University of Manchester in Manchester\n\n17 July – Completion of the 2009–10 Clipper Round the World Yacht Race in Hull\n\n20 August–5 September – Women's Rugby World Cup in London\n\n1–4 October – Ryder Cup at Celtic Manor Resort in Newport\n\n21–28 November – ATP World Tour Finals at The O2 Arena in London\n\n20–21 May – Amlin Challenge Cup and Heineken Cup Finals in at the Cardiff City Stadium and Millennium Stadium in Cardiff\n\n26 May – Women's Champions League Final at Craven Cottage in London\n\n28 May – Champions League Final at Wembley Stadium in London\n\n3–7 August – International Children's Games in Lanarkshire\n\n8–14 August – BWF World Championships at Wembley Arena in London\n\n17–20 November – 2011 Trampoline World Championships at the National Indoor Arena in Birmingham\n\n20–27 November – ATP World Tour Finals at The O2 Arena in London\n\n20–26 February – 2012 FINA Diving World Cup at the London Aquatics Centre in London\n\n3–6 May – 2012 European Taekwondo Championships at SportCity in Manchester\n\n18–19 May – Amlin Challenge Cup and Heineken Cup Finals at the Twickenham Stoop and Twickenham Stadium in London\n\n27 July–12 August – Summer Olympics in London\n\n29 August–9 September – Summer Paralympics in London\n\n16–18 November – UCI Track Cycling World Cup at the Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome in Glasgow\n\nNovember – ATP World Tour Finals at The O2 Arena in London\n\n21 April – IPC Athletics Marathon World Cup in London\n\n10–12 May – 2013 EuroLeague Final Four at The O2 Arena in London\n\n23 May – 2013 UEFA Women's Champions League Final at Stamford Bridge in London\n\n25 May – 2013 UEFA Champions League Final at Wembley Stadium in London\n\n6–23 June – 2013 ICC Champions Trophy at The Oval, Edgbaston and Cardiff\n\n21–23 June – 2013 World Rowing Cup at Eton Dorney in Windsor\n\n1–10 August – 2013 World Police and Fire Games in Belfast\n\n3–4 August – Prudential Ride London, Grand Prix, London-Surrey 100 & London-Surrey Classic\n\n7–11 August – UCI Juniors Track World Championships at the Sir Chris Hoy Velodrome in Glasgow\n\n1 September – Beginning of the Clipper Round the World Yacht Race at St Katharine Docks in London\n\n11–15 September – ITU World Triathlon Series Final at Hyde Park in London\n\n26 October–30 November – Rugby League World Cup in England and Wales\n\n1–3 November – UCI Track Cycling World Cup at the Manchester Velodrome in Manchester\n\n4–11 November – ATP World Tour Finals at The O2 Arena in London\n\n13 April – IPC Athletics Marathon World Cup in London\n\n23–24 May – Amlin Challenge Cup and Heineken Cup Finals at Cardiff Arms Park and the Millennium Stadium in Cardiff\n\n26–29 June World Corporate Games Liverpool presented by the International festival of Business. Delivered at multiple sporting venues across the Liverpool and City region and St George's Hall\n\n5–7 July – Le Grand Depart, 2014 Tour de France in Leeds and London\n\n24 July–3 August – Commonwealth Games in Glasgow\n\n18–23 August – IPC Athletics European Championships at Swansea University\n\n10–14 September – Invictus Games London 2014 at Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park\n\n26–28 September – Ryder Cup at Gleneagles\n\n9- 16 November – ATP World Tour Finals at The O2 Arena in London\n\n26–30 November – NEC Wheelchair Tennis Masters at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London\n\n26 April – IPC Athletics Marathon World Cup in London\n\n16–19 April – European Judo Championships in Glasgow\n\n1–2 May – European Rugby Challenge Cup and European Rugby Champions Cup Finals at the Twickenham Stoop and Twickenham Stadium in London\n\n19–25 July – 2015 IPC Swimming World Championships at Tollcross International Swimming Centre in Glasgow\n\n31 July - 8 August – World Orienteering Championships in Inverness\n\n1 - 30 August 2015 – EuroHockey Nations Championship at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London \n\n28 August - 6 September – European Wheelchair Basketball Championship 2015\n\n18 September-31 October – Rugby World Cup in England\n\n15–20 September – ICF Canoe Slalom World Championships at Lee Valley White Water Centre in London\n\n23 October-1 November – World Artistic Gymnastics Championships in Glasgow\n\n26-30 November – Wheelchair Tennis Masters at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London\n\n2-6 December – ATP World Tour Finals at The O Arena in London\n\n2–6 March – 2016 UCI Track Cycling World Championships at the London Velodrome in London\n\n24 April – IPC Athletics Marathon World Cup in London\n\n9–22 May – 2016 LEN European Aquatics Championships at the London Aquatics Centre in London \n\n18-26 June – Women's Hockey Champions Trophy at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London –\n\n7–25 June – 2016 World Rugby Under 20 Championship in Greater Manchester\n\n13-20 November – ATP World Tour Finals at The O Arena in London\n\nDates to be confirmed – Wheelchair Tennis Masters at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London\n\nApril (dates to be confirmed) – IPC Athletics Marathon World Cup in London\n\n12 and 13 May – 2017 European Rugby Challenge Cup Final and 2017 European Rugby Champions Cup Final at Murrayfield in Edinburgh\n\n1-18 June – 2017 ICC Champions Trophy in England and Wales\n\n13–22 July – 2017 Women's Lacrosse World Cup at the Surrey Sports Park in Guildford\n\n14–23 July – 2017 World Para Athletics Championships at the Olympic Stadium in London\n\nJuly (dates to be confirmed) – Men's Hockey World League Semi-Final 2 at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London\n\n5–13 August – 2017 IAAF Athletics World Championships at the Olympic Stadium in London\n\n8–25 August – 2017 Women's Rugby World Cup in Dublin and Belfast – Co-hosted\n\n12–19 November – 2017 ATP Finals at The O Arena in London\n\n4–20 May - 2018 UEFA European Under-17 Championship\n\n14-15 July - Inaugural Athletics World Cup \n\n7–21 July – Women's Hockey World Cup at Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre in London\n\n12–21 July – 2019 Netball World Cup in Liverpool. \n\n11–18 November – 2018 ATP Finals at The O Arena in London\n\n10 and 11 May – 2019 European Rugby Challenge Cup Final and 2019 European Rugby Champions Cup Final at St James' Park in Newcastle\n\n30 May–14 July – 2019 ICC Cricket World Cup in England and Wales\n\n13–15 September – 2019 Solheim Cup at Gleneagles near Auchterarder, Scotland\n\nNovember (dates TBA) – 2019 ATP Finals at The O Arena in London\n\nManchester hosted the world's biggest lacrosse event in July 2010. It was the third edition of the World Lacrosse Championships held in England, with Manchester hosting the 1994 tournament and Stockport hosting in 1978. The event took place at the University of Manchester, on the same campus used for the athletes' village at the 2002 Commonwealth Games.\n\nThe International Rugby Board, now known as World Rugby, which governs rugby union, announced in September 2008 that the 2010 Women's Rugby World Cup would be held in London. The event was held in late August and early September. All matches took place at the Surrey Sports Park in Guildford, except for the semi-finals, third-place match, and final, which were held at the Twickenham Stoop.\n\nThe 2010 Ryder Cup was held at the Celtic Manor Resort Hotel in Newport, South Wales. Originally scheduled for 1–3 October, it was extended to 4 October due to delays caused by heavy rains.\n\nMillennium Stadium hosted the 2011 Heineken Cup Final on 21 May. This was the fourth time that the Cardiff venue, the home of Welsh rugby union, hosted this event. The day before, the city also hosted the final of the second-tier Amlin Challenge Cup at Cardiff City Stadium.\n\nWembley Stadium hosted the 2011 UEFA Champions League Final on 28 May. This was the first time the current Wembley had hosted the event; the original Wembley Stadium had hosted the final five times. Including two finals at Hampden Park in Glasgow and one at Old Trafford in Manchester, this was the ninth time that Britain had hosted the European Cup/Champions League final.\n\nAs a part of its successful bid, London was also awarded the 2011 UEFA Women's Champions League Final, which was held on 26 May at Craven Cottage. It was the first time Britain had hosted the final of the women's event.\n\nThe International Children's Games is the world's largest international multi-sport youth event, with nearly 2,000 athletes, coaches and officials from over 70 countries taking part. The event is informally referred to as the 'Mini-Olympics'. Lanarkshire won the unanimous backing of the ICG Committee for hosting rights to the 2011 Games, beating strong competition from Singapore and Daegu. Scotland's First Minister Alex Salmond spoke to the Committee in a video message, pointing out that the awarding of the 2011 Games to Lanarkshire would be a major boost to the local area and informing them that the entire nation was supporting the bid. One of the prime venues was Strathclyde Country Park, which is also an official 2014 Commonwealth Games venue. Other venues included the new £29m sports facility at Ravenscraig, the Historic Scotland Category A listed Dollan Baths and the Airdrie Lesiure Centre.\n\nTwickenham, home to both the England national rugby union team and England's national governing body for the sport, hosted the 2012 Heineken Cup Final on 19 May. As with Millennium Stadium the year before, this was the fourth final for Twickenham. The adjacent Twickenham Stoop hosted the Amlin Challenge Cup final on the day before the Heineken Cup Final; this was the fourth Challenge Cup final at The Stoop.\n\nAfter Birmingham and Manchester failed to deliver winning bids for the 1992, 1996 and 2000 Olympic Games, the British Olympic Association (BOA) decided that London was the best choice to pursue the goal of hosting the Summer Olympics. The centrepiece of the London bid was the Lower Lea Valley, the location designated to be transformed into a world-class Olympic Park and Olympic Village. It would be connected via a high-speed shuttle service, dubbed the Olympic Javelin, and existing transport links capable of transferring 240,000 people per hour. After the Olympics and Paralympics close, the area will be transformed into the largest urban park developed in Europe for more than 150 years, with an area of 500 acres (2 km²), and will be home to the Olympic Medical Institute (OMI), a sports medical and rehabilitation centre. The bid called for substantial improvement of the London Underground system, which was supposed to be able to handle the Olympic crowds, and more investment into new Olympic sites throughout the city. London was considered to be the second favourite for the election after Paris, but intense lobbying by the London bid team at the later stages of the bidding process swung the votes in their favour.\n\nOn 7 July 2005, the victory celebrations were marred by the terrorist attacks on London's public transport system. This prompted immediate fears concerning the security of the 2012 Games, to which the IOC and British officials reacted in a reassuring way.\n\nLondon won hosting rights to the 2012 Summer Paralympics as part of its successful bid to host the Summer Olympics. The event used many of the Olympic venues.\n\nEuroleague Basketball announced on 12 May 2012 that The O arena would host the league's Final Four on 10 and 12 May 2013.\n\nThe contract between Euroleague Basketball and O arena operator AEG included a mutual option for the venue to host the 2014 Final Four, but one or both parties decided not to exercise that option, and the 2014 Final Four was instead awarded to Milan.\n\nThe hosting of the 2011 Champions League Final at the 90,000 Wembley Stadium was deemed such a success, UEFA announced on 16 June 2011 Wembley would host the 2013 final – the first time a stadium has hosted the European Cup final twice in three years. The 2013 final would coincide with the 150th anniversary of The Football Association – the world's oldest football governing body.\n\nAs a part of its successful bid, London was also awarded the 2013 Women's Champions League Final. As in 2011, that match was held two days before the (men's) Champions League Final. This time, Stamford Bridge hosted the women's final.\n\nThree cities in the United Kingdom, London, Cardiff and Birmingham, hosted the seventh ICC Champions Trophy, which was intended to be the final edition of that event. The eight major test nations competed in the limited overs tournament, with India winning.\n\nFollowing the success of the 2008 World Cup, the RLIF officially announced the next tournament to be held in 2013. The UK was favourites to host the sport's most prestigious event, but faced stiff competition from Australia, who had successfully hosted the 2008 competition – the most watched in rugby league's history. On 28 July 2009 the RLIF held a meeting in Singapore and, ending months of speculation, announced that the UK would host the 2013 Rugby League World Cup.\n\nInitially, the 2014 finals of the Heineken Cup and Amlin Challenge Cup were scheduled to be held in the Paris area in France. However, the French Rugby Federation pulled out of hosting because of uncertainty over the availability of Stade de France for the Heineken Cup Final. As a result, the organiser of both competitions, European Rugby Cup, reopened the bidding for both finals (which were awarded in a single package). Bids were received from all three of the Home Nations on the island of Great Britain—England, Scotland and Wales.\n\nUltimately, the finals were awarded to Cardiff, which had most recently hosted the finals in 2011. This was the fifth Heineken Cup Final at Millennium Stadium, and the seventh for the city (two other finals had been held at the National Stadium that previously occupied the Millennium Stadium site).\n\nUnlike 2011, when the Challenge Cup Final was played at Cardiff City Stadium, the second-tier final was held at Cardiff Arms Park, directly adjacent to Millennium Stadium. This match was the first European final ever played on an artificial surface, as the Arms Park's main tenant, the Cardiff Blues of Pro12, installed a modern artificial pitch for the 2013–14 season.\n\nThese were the last-ever finals of the Heineken Cup and Amlin Challenge Cup. From 2014–15, these competitions were replaced respectively by the European Rugby Champions Cup and European Rugby Challenge Cup.\n\nThe first three stages of the 2014 Tour de France took place in Yorkshire, Cambridgeshire, Essex and London.\n\nScotland was the first country to consider hosting the 2014 Commonwealth Games in 2004, with Scottish cities being invited by the Commonwealth Games Council for Scotland to consider making a bid. In September 2004, Glasgow was announced as the Scottish candidate city over Edinburgh (which hosted the Games in 1970 and 1986, and the inaugural Commonwealth Youth Games in 2000) following a cost-benefit analysis by the Commonwealth Games Council for Scotland. The Scottish Executive under then First Minister of Scotland, Jack McConnell, with the support of the United Kingdom government and all main parties in the Scottish Parliament, formally announced Glasgow's intention to host the games on 16 August 2005.\n\nIn March 2006, the bidding process began, with the Glasgow Bid team presenting their case to the Commonwealth Games Federation at the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne, along with the other confirmed candidate cities; the Nigerian capital, Abuja and Halifax in Canada; Halifax later withdrew due to 'unacceptably high cost projections'. In October 2006, the first voting delegates arrived in Glasgow, in order to inspect the city's existing and proposed amenities and facilities. Glasgow announced on 16 January 2007, the 17 sports to be included should its bid be successful. Halifax later withdrew its bid on 8 March 2007, following the withdrawal of funding from the municipal government.\n\nThat left Abuja and Glasgow as the remaining bidders, with Abuja seen as a likely favourite due to the basis of its campaign that Africa has never before hosted the Commonwealth Games. The deadline for formal submission of bids to the Commonwealth Games Federation, in the form of a Candidate City File, was set for May 2007. Both bids were highly recommended, though Glasgow's bid team had made use of extensive benchmarking against the 2002 Commonwealth Games in Manchester and the 2006 Commonwealth Games in Melbourne and as a result, its bid was deemed technically superior according to the CGF Evaluation Report that was released in September 2007. The Commonwealth Games Evaluation Commission concluded that: \"Glasgow has shown it has the ability to stage the 2014 Commonwealth Games to a standard which would continue to enhance the image and prestige of the Games.\" This put Glasgow ahead in terms of the technical comprehensiveness of its bid.\n\nThe final decision on the host city of the 2014 Commonwealth Games was held in Colombo, Sri Lanka on 9 November 2007 at the Commonwealth Games Federation General Assembly, attended by all 71 Commonwealth Games member associations. Each bid city made a presentation to the General Assembly, the order of which was determined by drawing lots. Glasgow's delegation was led by Louise Martin, chair of the Commonwealth Games Council for Scotland, First Minister Alex Salmond, athlete Jamie Quarry and Leader of Glasgow City Council Steven Purcell. The presentation also included a promotional film narrated by Sean Connery. Abuja's delegation was led by General Yakubu Gowon, head of the Abuja 2014 Commonwealth Games bid team. The CGF members subsequently voted for their preferred candidate in a secret ballot. As there were only two bids, the winner was announced by the CGF President, Mike Fennell, after the first round of voting, with the winner only requiring a simple majority. Celebrations were held at Glasgow's Old Fruitmarket, where a crowd of over 1,200 had gathered to watch the result live.\n\nThe 2014 Ryder Cup was held at Gleneagles in Scotland.\n\nThe inaugural finals of the new European rugby union competitions, the European Rugby Champions Cup and European Rugby Challenge Cup, were held in London. On 1 May 2015, the Twickenham Stoop hosted the final of the second-tier Challenge Cup. The following day, the adjacent Twickenham Stadium hosted the inaugural Champions Cup Final. Including finals of the former Heineken Cup and European Challenge Cup, these were the fifth European club rugby finals for each venue.\n\nThe 2015 World Orienteering Championships were hosted by Scotland and based in Inverness during August 2015. The World Championships were awarded on 18 August 2011 at an International Orienteering Federation press conference, beating out a bid by Sweden. The championships were previously held in Scotland on two occasions, in 1976 and 1999.\n\nThe 2015 Rugby World Cup was hosted by England. Their winning bid included the proposed hosting of some games in Cardiff; this was officially ratified by World Rugby, then known as the International Rugby Board (IRB), on 24 May 2011. The Rugby World Cup was awarded on 28 July 2009 following the IRB Executive Board ratifying Rugby World Cup Limited's proposed decision to award the 2015 World Cup to England and the 2019 World Cup to Japan.\n\nIn May 2011, it was announced that Glasgow would be the host city of the 2015 edition of the World Artistic Gymnastics Championships. The 2015 edition was the third to have been staged in the UK, and the first in Scotland, following the Glasgow bid's success over rival pitches from Paris and Orlando, Florida. The SSE Hydro, a facility designed and built for the Commonwealth Games that were held in the city a year earlier, was the primary venue for the Championships.\n\nThe London VeloPark in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, host of the 2012 Summer Olympic track cycling, hosted the world championships in February 2016.\n\nOn 16 June 2015, World Rugby announced that the 2016 World Rugby Under 20 Championship (rugby union) would be held in Greater Manchester. The event used two stadia—AJ Bell Stadium in Salford and Manchester City Academy Stadium in Manchester. Since the establishment of the championship's current U20 format in 2008, this was the first time that England hosted and the second for the UK; Wales hosted the 2008 event.\n\nDuring the 2013 LEN Bureau meeting in Barcelona the 2016 European Aquatics Championships was allocated to London. This was the first major international aquatic championship in the Aquatic Centre in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park since the 2012 Olympic Games.\n\nThe 2017 finals of both the European Rugby Champions Cup and European Rugby Challenge Cup were hosted by Edinburgh's Murrayfield, home to the Scottish Rugby Union and the Scotland national team. On 17 June 2015, the organiser of both competitions, European Professional Club Rugby, announced the sites of the 2016 and 2017 finals of both competitions, with the 2016 finals being awarded to Lyon, France and the 2017 finals being awarded to Edinburgh. At that time, Murrayfield was only confirmed as the site of the Champions Cup final, but on 30 March 2016 it was confirmed that Murrayfield would also host the Challenge Cup final. The 2017 Champions Cup final was the first at Murrayfield since 2009 and the third overall; the 2017 Challenge Cup final was the first ever in Scotland.\n\nFollowing the 2013 Champions Trophy, the International Cricket Council planned to replace the Champions Trophy in the cricketing calendar with the ICC World Test Championship in Test cricket. This was the second time the ICC had announced this plan; it had previously intended to launch the Test Championship in 2013, with the England and Wales Cricket Board (ECB) hosting the inaugural event, but scrapped the original plans in 2011. In 2014, the ICC again cancelled the Test Championship in favour of continuing to hold the Champions Trophy, and the ECB, which had been awarded the 2017 Test Championship, was given hosting rights for the 2017 Champions Trophy as compensation.\n\nOn 19 December 2012, London was announced as host of the 2017 edition of the event then known as the IPC Athletics World Championships, using the Olympic Stadium built for the 2012 Olympic Games. By the time of the event, the International Paralympic Committee, which serves as the governing body for disability athletics, had renamed the competition as the World Para Athletics Championships.\n\nThe event was spectacularly successful by the standards of previous editions of these championships. In all, 305,000 tickets were sold for the event—more than were sold for the previous eight editions of these championships combined, and only 10,000 less than Rio de Janeiro sold for athletics at the 2016 Summer Paralympics. The 2015 IPC Athletics World Championships in Qatar had total sales of only 15,000.\n\nOn 11 March 2011 UK Athletics announced that they would submit a bid for the 2017 Athletics World Championships, whereby London would be used to host, using the Olympic Stadium built for the 2012 Olympic Games. On 11 November 2011 it was announced that the bid was successful.\n\nThe 2017 Women's Rugby World Cup was hosted by Ireland. Rugby union in Ireland is organised on an All-Ireland basis, with the Irish Rugby Football Union (IRFU) governing the sport in both the Republic of Ireland and Northern Ireland. World Rugby announced on 13 May 2015 that the IRFU had been awarded the Women's World Cup. The group stage was played in the Republic's capital of Dublin, with all knockout stage and classification matches held in Belfast. Most of the Belfast matches were held at Queen's University Belfast; both semi-finals and the final were at Ravenhill Stadium, plus two classification matches that involved the hosts.\n\nOn 5 February 2018 British Athletics confirmed that eight of the world’s top athletics nations would compete in the inaugural Athletics World Cup London 2018 at the London Stadium on 14-15 July. \n\nThe ATP Finals, which ends the ATP World Tour season in men's tennis, has been hosted at The O Arena in London since 2009. The hosting contract currently runs through the 2020 edition.\n\nAnnounced on 3 December 2012, London would be hosting the NEC Wheelchair Tennis Masters for three years starting in 2016 at Olympic Park, London.\n\nFollowing an unsuccessful bid to host the 2014 edition of the competition, England was awarded the 2018 Women's Hockey World Cup in November 2013. This will be held at the Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre – host of the 2015 EuroHockey Championships, NEC Tennis Masters from 2016 and also the 2016 Women's Hockey Champions Trophy.\n\nThe 2019 finals of both the European Rugby Champions Cup and European Rugby Challenge Cup will be hosted at St James' Park in Newcastle, normally home to Newcastle United F.C. On 3 April 2017, the organiser of both competitions, European Professional Club Rugby, announced the sites of the 2018 and 2019 finals of both competitions, with the 2018 finals being awarded to Bilbao, Spain and the 2019 finals being awarded to Newcastle. Unlike the announcement of the 2017 finals, for which Murrayfield was initially announced as hosting only the Champions Cup final and only later being confirmed as the Challenge Cup final host, St James' Park was confirmed as hosting both finals. Including finals of the predecessor to the Champions Cup, the Heineken Cup, the 2019 Champions Cup final will be the 15th in Britain and sixth in England, but the first-ever final hosted by an English stadium other than Twickenham. As for the Challenge Cup (and \"its\" predecessor, the original European Challenge Cup), this will also be the 15th final staged in the UK, and the 12th in England. St. James' Park will also be the first British stadium to host a Challenge Cup final that at the time was not the regular home to a professional club rugby team.\n\nThe 2019 Cricket World Cup will be hosted by England and Wales. This will be the twelfth World Cup competition, and the fifth time it has been held in England, having played host in 1975, 1979, 1983 and 1999.\n\nThe hosting rights were awarded in April 2006, after England withdrew from the bidding to host the 2015 Cricket World Cup, which was held in Australia and New Zealand. In turn, those countries had been defeated by India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Sri Lanka for the right to stage the 2011 contest.\n\nThe 2019 Solheim Cup, the women's equivalent to the Ryder Cup, will be hosted by Gleneagles in Perth and Kinross, Scotland. Gleneagles beat out a rival hosting bid from Sweden. This will be the third Solheim Cup to be hosted by the UK, all three by Scotland, but the first since 2000.\n\nIn 2007, NFL commissioner Roger Goodell stated that \"There is a great deal of interest in holding a Super Bowl in London\". However, at that time, the earliest Super Bowl London could host would have been Super Bowl XLVII in 2013. In 2009, British media reports suggested that London was planning to submit bids for the 2014, 2015 and 2017 Super Bowls, although by that time, Goodell denied any NFL interest in a London bid. Ultimately, the 2014 game was awarded to the New Meadowlands Stadium, now known as MetLife Stadium, in East Rutherford, New Jersey (near New York City) with London not submitting a formal bid. London also did not submit a bid for the 2015 game, which was awarded to University of Phoenix Stadium in the Phoenix area. The 2017 game, which would mark the 50th anniversary of the first Super Bowl (but the 51st game in the series), was eventually awarded to NRG Stadium (previously Reliant Stadium) in Houston, also without a London bid.\n\nFollowing an unsuccessful bid to host the 2014 edition of the competition, England won the right to host the Women's World Cup in November 2013, culminating in finals at the Lee Valley Hockey and Tennis Centre, home of the 2012 Summer Paralympic wheelchair tennis competition. The men's World Cup was awarded to India.\n\nOn 19 September 2011 it was announced that Glasgow would submit to the British Olympic Association (BOA) a proposal to bid for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics. On 22 February 2012 the BOA agreed to put Glasgow forward as the United Kingdom's bidding city for the 2018 Summer Youth Olympics. In July 2013 they were awarded to Buenos Aires.\n\nManchester was announced in 2013 as the host city for the 2018 World Lacrosse Championship for men. However, the sport's governing body for England, English Lacrosse, withdrew from hosting duties in May 2017, citing what it saw as an unacceptably high level of financial risk. The event ultimately took place in Netanya, Israel between 12 and 21 July 2018.\n\nIt was announced on 2 December 2010 that England's bid was unsuccessful and the 2018 FIFA World Cup would be held in Russia.\n\nFailed due to unsuccessful bid to host the 2018 FIFA World Cup.\n\nIn December 2006, the Football Association of Wales announced it was tentatively considering the possibility of jointly hosting the tournament with the Scottish Football Association. Scotland, along with the Republic of Ireland, bid for Euro 2008 and there has been much discussion over whether the nation should consider a solo bid for Euro 2016. The entrance into government of the Scottish National Party (SNP) had previously boosted the hopes of such an outcome.\n\nUltimately it was announced on 9 March 2009 that Scotland and Wales, who had planned to bid together, decided the cost of staging the event was too great. Factors sited were principally the dire economic situation and the fact that 2016 would see the tournament expand to 24 teams from 16, greatly increasing the cost of hosting.\n\nLondon bid to host the men's and women's versions of the Hockey World Cup in 2014. The bid would have been only the second time both events have been held simultaneously and was planned to centre around the Olympic Hockey Centre, built for the 2012 Olympic Games, and would have been the first international event held at a 'legacy facility' in the Olympic Park after the London Olympics. Boxing promoter Frank Warren was brought in by England Hockey to help with the bid. On 11 November 2010, it was announced the Netherlands had won the bid.\n\nLondon submitted a bid to the IAAF to host the 2015 World Championships in 2010, however due to the uncertain future of the Olympic stadium at the time, the bid was moved to the 2017 World championships, leaving only Beijing in the race. The event was accordingly held in The Bird's Nest Stadium, the athletics venue for the 2008 Olympic Games.\n\nLondon was one of three cities shortlisted to host the 2018 edition of the Gay Games, alongside Paris and Limerick. Venues would have included many of those used in the 2012 Summer Olympics, including those in the Queen Elizabeth Olympic Park, as well as The O2 Arena and SouthBank Centre. The Games were awarded to Paris.\n\nFollowing the success of the 2017 World Para Athletics Championships, UK Athletics announced that it would submit a bid to host the event again in 2019. London was competing against Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia for hosting rights, with a bidding deadline of 30 September 2017. However, the day before the bidding deadline, London abandoned the 2019 bid, citing scheduling issues and a lack of funding to support the bid. With Kuala Lumpur also pulling out, bidding was reopened, and the event was ultimately awarded to Dubai, United Arab Emirates.\n\n"}
{"id": "28267358", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=28267358", "title": "McKinney Creek Stadium", "text": "McKinney Creek Stadium\n\nMcKinney Creek Stadium was a temporary ski stadium located at Tahoma, California, in the United States. Built in 1959, it was used for cross-country skiing, Nordic combined and biathlon at the 1960 Winter Olympics in Squaw Valley.\nAs Squaw Valley was an undeveloped area at the time of being awarded the Olympics, the organizing committee was free to build a tailor-made Olympic resort. The organizing committee originally intended to house all events in Squaw Valley proper, but real estate developments in Squaw Valley made this difficult. In 1958 the organizing committee therefore decided to move all cross-country and biathlon events to McKinney Creek.\nRolf Gerlofsen had surveyed the area in March 1957, and work on the biathlon tracks and facilities was undertaken and completed during the summer of 1958. It was the first time that pull targets were installed for a biathlon competition.\nWork on the stadium began in August 1959. Plans for the tracks were approved by the International Ski Federation's Knut Korsvold and Sigge Bergman, after which construction of the trails could start in the summer 1959. Trial events were undertaken in 1959, in which it was found that mechanical track preparation was more efficient than manual, given that there was at least 45 centimeters (18 in) of snow. After the Olympics, the stadium was dismounted.\nMcKinney Creek Stadium was located immediately off California State Route 89, 19 kilometers (12 mi) south of Squaw Valley. It was the only venue to not be located in the ski resort itself. The stadium was long and between wide. Bleachers were erected on one side of the finish line with space for 1,000 spectators and 200 press officers. A 16 by 4 meter (54 by 13 ft) scoreboard was built behind the finish line, which at any given time showed the latest times and the ten best results. Flags for all participating nations at the games were hoisted along the stadium.\nThe main building was the Timing Building, which consisted of a calculations room, a communications room, an office for the race secretary in addition to areas for timing staff and equipment. The upper section was used by the public announcer and featured sixteen radio booths. Two 6 by 15 meter (20 by 48 ft) Quonset huts with a total sixteen rooms were built for competitors for waxing, resting and changing. Lack of water caused the stadium to lack showers. An identically sized Quonset hut was built for administration personnel and course preparation works. A larger 6 by 20 meter (20 by 64 ft) Quonset hut was built for the press, which included typewriters, teletype machines, telephones and a darkroom.\nThe biathlon course had four shooting ranges along the course. A range was installed at , a range at , a range at and a range at . The ranges had 15 pull-type targest with a \"sleeve and plunger\" system with five recharges. This allowed up to 75 participants in the race. An additional practacing range was built in the Squaw Valley–Deer Park area, in addition to the range being available for training. Coordination of the shooting station was undertaken by four groups of twenty men from the United States Air Force Rifle School. First aid stations were installed at each range.\nTrack preparation was undertaken every evening before the events. Crews were assigned to sections of tracks, with the responsibility of skiing the courses one and a half hours before start, policing the section and removing markers after the event. Each event was color-coded and all marking and material for each event used the colors for visual identification. Training tracks were available in the McKinney Park area and the Squaw Valley–Deer Park area. Both official electronic and unofficial manual timing was used. Interval times were taken at intervals and phoned to the stadium.\nCross-country skiing consisted of six events—four for men and two for women, including a relay race for both genders. The men's 30 kilometer saw a Swedish double won by Sixten Jernberg ahead of Rolf Ramgard. In the men's 15 kilometer, Jernberg finished second after Norway's Hakon Brusveen. The men's 4 × 10 kilometer relay saw Finland win ahead of Norway and the Soviet Union. The United States finished last of the eleven teams. The final men's race was the men's 50 kilometer, which saw a Finish double with Kalevi Hämäläinen win ahead of Veikko Hakulinen followed by three SWedes. The men's relay saw the largest crowd, of 3,000 spectators.\nThe women's 10 kilometer saw the Soviet Union win the four top positions, with Maria Gusakova winning gold and Lyubov Kozyreva winning silver. Five teams entered the women's 3 × 5 kilometer relay. Despite the Soviet dominance in the individual race, Sweden was successful at beating the Soviet Union, ahead of Finland, Poland and Germany.\nThe ski jumping part of the Nordic combined took place at Papoose Peak Jumps in Squaw Valley. Germany's Georg Thoma won the ski jumping event and succeeded at defending the gold through the 15 kilometer cross-country race. The Soviet Union's Dmitriy Kochkin finished second after the jumps, but was relegated to fifth after the cross-country event, with Norway's Tormod Knutsen taking silver.\nThe 1960 Winter Olympics saw the debut of biathlon. Thirty competitors from nine nations entered the 20 kilometer race, which was undertaken with one-minute interval start. The race was won by Klas Lestander of Sweden ahead of Finland's Antti Tyrvainen and four Soviet biathletes.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "47716799", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=47716799", "title": "Northern Railway Stadium", "text": "Northern Railway Stadium\n\nNorthern Railway Stadium is a multi purpose stadium in Bikaner, Rajasthan. The ground is mainly used for organizing matches of football, cricket and other sports. The stadium has hosted five first-class matches in 1976 when Rajasthan cricket team played against Vidarbha cricket team. The ground hosted four more first-class matches from 1978 to 1995. The stadium also hosted two List A matches when Willis XI played against Madhya Pradesh cricket team and against Central Zone cricket team played against West Zone cricket team but since then the stadium has hosted non-first-class matches.\n\n"}
{"id": "25020543", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=25020543", "title": "Olympic Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea", "text": "Olympic Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea\n\nThe Olympic Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea (; IOC code: PRK) is the National Olympic Committee (NOC) representing North Korea (competing either as DPR Korea or as the country's full official name, the Democratic People's Republic of Korea).\n\nIt is a member of the Olympic Council of Asia (OCA), and of the Association of National Olympic Committees (ANOC). It is based in Kwangbok Street, Kumsong-dong, Mangyongdae District, Pyongyang. Its chairman is Kim Il-guk, Vice President Chang Ung, and Secretary General Son Kwang-ho.\n\nBefore the Korean War, the International Olympic Committee (IOC) recognized a single Korean National Olympic Committee (NOC) representing both the North and South Korea, based in Seoul. After the war, North Korea displayed dissatisfaction with this arrangement, and repeatedly called for the creation of a North Korean NOC. The IOC declined these pleas on the grounds that there could be only one NOC per country.\n\nRegardless of the lack of recognition, the Olympic Committee of the Democratic People's Republic of Korea was founded in 1953 and it applied to join the IOC in June 1956. \n\nIn the 1957 session of the IOC, the Olympic Committee of the USSR asked the IOC to provisionally recognize the North Korean NOC on the grounds that the East German NOC had been admitted alongside the Olympic Committee of West Germany. Recognition was to be done under the condition that the two Korean NOCs would agree to send a unified team to 1960 Summer Olympics in Rome, but the plans failed due to opposition by the South's Korean Olympic Committee. The matter of a unified team was debated over the following sessions, and lobbied by the Bulgarian and Romanian NOCs, and in 1962 the IOC finally conferred provisional recognition on the North Korean NOC.\n\nTalks about a unified team continued in 1963, but these talks failed after the NOCs could agree on nothing but the flag, which was to consist of the word \"Korea\" under the Olympic rings.\n\nBetween 1985 and 1988 the NOCs negotiated about co-hosting the 1988 Summer Olympics. The negotiations failed, resulting in North Korea boycotting the Games held in Seoul of South Korea.\n\nThe following national bodies have membership in the Committee:\n\nOn November 2, 2018, officials from both North and South Korea announced that their countries would participate at the 2020 Summer Olympics, held in Tokyo, Japan, as a unified team. The officials from both Koreas also announced that the letters they would send to the IOC regarding their bids for hosting the 2032 Summer Olympics would also consist of co-host bids so that the Olympic activities would take place in both nations if their bids were accepted as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "7748175", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=7748175", "title": "Panama at the 1952 Summer Olympics", "text": "Panama at the 1952 Summer Olympics\n\nPanama competed at the 1952 Summer Olympics in Helsinki, Finland. It was the nations third time competing in the Olympics since 1928.\n\n"}
{"id": "540877", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=540877", "title": "Quarterback sack", "text": "Quarterback sack\n\nIn American football and Canadian football, a sack occurs when the quarterback (or another offensive player acting as a passer) is tackled behind the line of scrimmage before he can throw a forward pass, when the quarterback is tackled behind the line of scrimmage in the \"pocket\" and his intent is unclear, or when a passer runs out of bounds behind the line of scrimmage due to defensive pressure. This often occurs if the opposing team's defensive line, linebackers or defensive backs are able to apply pass pressure (also called a pass rush) to quickly get past blocking players of the offensive team (the quarterback's protection), or if the quarterback is unable to find a back to hand the ball off to or an available eligible receiver (including wide receivers, running backs and tight ends) to catch the ball, allowing the defense a longer opportunity to tackle the quarterback. \n\nPerforming a sack is advantageous for the defending team as the offence loses a down, and the line of scrimmage retreats several yards. Even better for the defense is a sack causing the quarterback to fumble the ball at or behind the line of scrimmage; this is also known as a strip sack and can result in a turnover if the defense manages to obtain the ball. A quarterback that is pressured but avoids a sack can still be adversely affected by being forced to hurry.\n\nIn the National Football League (NFL), it is possible to record a sack for zero yards. The QB must pass the statistical line of scrimmage to avoid the sack. If a passer is sacked in his own end zone, the result is a safety and the defending team is awarded two points, unless the football is fumbled and either recovered in the end zone by the defense for a touchdown or recovered by either team outside the end zone.\n\nTo be considered a sack the quarterback must intend to throw a forward pass. If the play is designed for the quarterback to rush (run) the ball, any loss is subtracted from the quarterback's rushing total (and the play is ruled a tackle for loss as opposed to a sack). If the quarterback's intent is not obvious, statisticians use certain criteria, such as the offensive line blocking scheme, to decide. Unique situations where a loss reduces a quarterback's rushing total (not a sack) are \"kneel downs\" (used to run time off the game clock).\n\nA player will receive credit for half of a sack when multiple players contribute to the sacking of a quarterback, even if more than two players contributed.\n\nIn the NFL yards lost on the play are added as negative yardage to the team's passing totals; however, the quarterback's individual passing total stats remains unchanged. NCAA continues to subtract sack yardage from individual rushing totals.\n\nThe term \"sack\" was first popularized by Hall of Fame defensive end Deacon Jones in the 1960s, who felt that a sack devastated the offense in the same way that a city was devastated when it was sacked.\n\nAccording to former NFL coach Marv Levy, it was Washington Redskins coach George Allen who actually coined the term when referring to Dallas Cowboys quarterback Craig Morton. Allen purportedly stated before a game, \"Before we play those Dallas Cowboys, we’re going to take that Morton salt and pour him into a sack.\"\n\nPrior to \"sack\", the term \"dump\" was often used, and the NFL's statistical office recorded all sacks under \"dumping the passer\".\n\nThe NFL only began to keep track of times passers lost yardage in 1961 and no credit was given to the defensive player responsible until 1982. Researcher John Turney of the Pro Football Researchers Association estimated that Jones recorded 173½ sacks in his career.\n\nControversial NFL rule changes made for the 2018 season prohibit tacklers landing on the quarterback after making a sack, with the punishment being a roughing the passer penalty.\n\nOf all forms of defensive pressure against the opposition's passer, sacks provide the most immediate impact by ending the offensive play. However, quarterbacks sometimes avoid a sack by throwing an incomplete pass or risking an interception. According to Football Outsiders, a quarterback hurry is the most common form of pass pressure. In the 2009 NFL season, there were 1,106 sacks and 3,268 hurries, and a hurried quarterback generally averaged fewer yards per pass play compared to the average pass play.\n\nThese records are from 1982 onwards, the year the NFL started officially recording sacks.\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "17556768", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17556768", "title": "Rubene (floorball club)", "text": "Rubene (floorball club)\n\nRubene is a Latvian Floorball League team based in Rubene, Kocēni Parish, Latvia.\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "22456656", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=22456656", "title": "Rugby Nova Scotia", "text": "Rugby Nova Scotia\n\nRugby Nova Scotia is the provincial administrative body for rugby union in Nova Scotia, Canada.\n\nThe Nova Scotia Rugby Union (ORU) also known as Rugby Nova Scotia is the provincial governing body for the sport of rugby union in the Canadian province of Nova Scotia and a Provincial Union of Rugby Canada. Rugby Nova Scotia governs various levels of rugby (Mini-Rugby, Under-12, Under-14, Under-16, Under-18, Senior, Masters, Non-contact).\n\nYou can find a list of clubs in Nova Scotia here.\n\nRugby Nova Scotia is represented on the National stage by the Nova Scotia Keltics. This program includes 15's teams at the following ages: U15, U16, U17, U18, U19, U20 and Senior; which compete at the Canadian Rugby Championship in championship and festival divisions. In 2009, Rugby Canada decided to disband the RCSL and replace it with a new U-20 league called the Rugby Canada National Junior Championship. The Keltics were chosen as one of the remaining RCSL clubs to enter the newly formed league.\n\n"}
{"id": "57914809", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=57914809", "title": "Salle Bir Challouf", "text": "Salle Bir Challouf\n\nThe Nabeul Bir Challouf Indoor Sports Complex is an indoor sporting arena located in Nabeul, Tunisia, and it is the home of the Tunisian Basketball Club Stade Nabeulien The capacity of the arena is 5,000 spectators..\n\nThe Nabeul Sports Complex was built specifically to host some of the 2005 FIBA Under-19 World Championship for Women matches and has also hosted many 2005 World Men's Handball Championship matches later and since it became home of the Stade Nabeulien Basketball team.\n\nThe Sports Indoor Complex is used for many sports disciplines like volleyball, basketball, handball, wrestling, karate, judo, taekwondo and also the arena hosts many politics events and concerts.\n"}
{"id": "17640514", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=17640514", "title": "Select Sport", "text": "Select Sport\n\nSelect Sport A.S. is a Danish sports equipment manufacturer based in Glostrup, Denmark. \n\nAs of 2008, Select provides the Danish Football Association with footballs, and also several clubs in the Danish, Belgian and Russian top football leagues use Select balls.\n\nSelect balls are used in the Olympic handball games, as well as in the World Championship and in the Danish, Swedish and Spanish men's handball leagues, among others.\n\nThe company's U.S. subsidiary, Select Sport America, has contracts to supply soccer balls for the United Soccer Leagues, National Premier Soccer League, NAIA, several NCAA Division II and Division III conferences, and state high school federations in Kentucky and Wisconsin.\n\nIt was founded in 1947 by Eigil Nielsen, the former goalkeeper of the Danish national football team.\n\nIn the late 1950s or early 1960s, Select manufactured and marketed the first 32-panel soccer ball. Based loosely on the geodesic dome designs of R. Buckminster Fuller, it consisted of 12 black pentagons and 20 white hexagons. The 32 panel configuration became the world standard for several decades. Select was also the first manufacturer of footballs without exterior lacing.\n\nSelect Sport is the official supplier and sponsor of numerous association football teams, players and associations, including:\n\nSelect is official ball supplier for the following football leagues/associations:\n\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18233897", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18233897", "title": "Sharp Gymnasium", "text": "Sharp Gymnasium\n\nThe Frank and Lucille Sharp Gymnasium is a 1,000-seat multi-purpose arena in Houston, Texas. It was built in 1963 and is home to the Houston Baptist University Huskies basketball and volleyball teams.\n\nSharp Gymnasium served as the temporary home court for the 2007-08 Rice Owls women's team for nine home games while Rice University renovated Autry Court to Tudor Fieldhouse.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "38907280", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=38907280", "title": "Sisport", "text": "Sisport\n\nSisport is a women's basketball team during the 1970s and 1980s in Turin, Italy.\n\n\"Gruppo Sportivo FIAT\" (\"G.S. FIAT\") was founded in 1922 by employees of the eponymous automobile manufacturer the city of Turin is still associated with. Since 1978, it has first known as \"Sisport Fiat\" and then simply as \"Sisport\". With the advent of professionalism in various sports, the club now largely caters to amateur and youth sports.\n\n\nFIAT has won Euroleague Women in the 1979-80 season and two Italian Championships.\n\n\nNotable former athletes include Mediterranean Games gold medalist Marisa Masullo, and the four Olympic gold medalists Pietro Mennea, Sara Simeoni, Maurizio Damilano and Gabriella Dorio (in that period under the sponsorship of Fiat Iveco).\n\n\n\n\n"}
{"id": "1936880", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=1936880", "title": "Slater Family Ice Arena", "text": "Slater Family Ice Arena\n\nThe Slater Family Ice Arena is a 5,000-seat hockey arena in Bowling Green, Ohio. It is home to the BGSU Falcons ice hockey team of the WCHA. It was built from 1965 to 1967 for a cost of $1.8 million and opened in February 1967. The arena originally had seating for 2,863 until 1989 when it was expanded to its current size of 5,000. Formerly known as the BGSU Ice Arena, it was renamed in 2016.\n\n\n\nThe BGSU Ice Arena was home to the Bowling Green Curling Club for 48 years (1968-2016). In the spring of 2016, the Club began a move to a dedicated curling facility.\n\n"}
{"id": "39129987", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=39129987", "title": "Snowboard racing", "text": "Snowboard racing\n\nSnowboard racing is a form of snowboarding where competitors attempt to obtain the fastest time down a course. Snowboard racing can be done against the clock, or by two or more competitors racing in a head-to-head format.\n\nThe current Olympic snowboarding racing events are parallel giant slalom, parallel slalom and snowboard cross.\nWorld tour events in snowboard racing are hosted by the FIS (Federation International De Ski). The FIS currently organises both a world cup tour and a world championship for each of the Olympic snowboard racing events (parallel giant slalom, parallel slalom and snowboard cross). The International Snowboard Federation was the former governing body.\n\nThe struggling International Snowboard Federation does not currently host a world tour in any snowboard racing format, but it is possible that it may host a tour for banked slalom in coming years.\n\nThe major racing events are as follows:\n\n(PGS): \nThe parallel giant slalom event includes two evenly spaced courses (10–15 meters apart) with vertical distances of 20–27 meters between turning gates, allowing speeds up to 70 km/h. Once qualifications are complete, racers are placed in a head to head knockout format, starting with 16 athletes and moving to a final race for 1st and 2nd. It uses a much longer course than parallel slalom with gates set further apart (spaced 20–27 meters apart), resulting in even higher speeds, while racing against an opponent on a similar course place parallel to the other course. Parallel giant slalom is an Olympic event, and the FIS organises a world tour and world cup for this event.\n\n(GS): The original Olympic discipline for snowboard racing was giant slalom, but it featured in only one Winter Olympics (Nagano 1998). It uses a much longer course than slalom, with gates set further apart (spaced 25–32 meters apart), resulting in even higher speeds. This event is still staged at Continental Cup and Regional level, but the last giant slalom world cup was held in 2000 at Mt. Ste Anne, Quebec, Canada, with Jasey-Jay Anderson (CAN) and Karine Ruby (FRA)] winning.\n\n(PSL): Parallel slalom debuted at the Olympics in 2014 in Sochi, Russia. Boarders race downhill through sets of gates that force extremely tight and quick turns (spaced 8–15 meters apart), requiring plenty of technical skill while racing against an opponent in the other course.\n\n(TS): The triple slalom is a concept event that has been tested as a North American cup event in November 2011 at Copper Mountain. It was spearheaded by the Canadian team, as FIS had discussed it as a world cup event and possibly an Olympic format for slalom, but it had not been tested till that point. Once it was tested, it was realized it may have potential but was not the right fit for an Olympic discipline.\n\n(SL): In slalom, boarders race downhill through sets of gates that force extremely tight and quick turns, (spaced 8–15 meters apart) requiring plenty of technical skill while racing against the clock. The winner of this event is based on 2 runs combined time.\n\n(SG): Boarders competing in a Super G event travel through sets of gates spaced 30–40 meters apart, requiring plenty of courage and speed while testing the endurance of the racer at speeds of up to 100 km/h. This has not been a world cup event since 1999 at Mt. Bachelor, Oregon.\n\n(SBX): In snowboard cross, four snowboard racers start simultaneously atop an inclined course. The racers go over a series of features while trying to reach the finish line first. Snowboard cross became an Olympic sport in 2006.\n\nTeam snowboard cross is a relatively new event. US Snowboard requested it be a part of the Winter Olympics starting in 2018. It will be confirmed in Fall 2014. --MJB 18:06, 29 June 2014 (UTC)FIS Snowboard .\n\nBanked slalom is a loosely organized group of events, primarily in the Pacific Northwest, but now seen increasingly across Western North America and the rest of the Snowboard world. Well established and iconic Banked Slalom events include Mt. Baker Banked Slalom, Neil Edgeworth Banked Slalom (NEBS) at Big White, BC and Dicks Ditch Classic (Jackson Hole, Wy). It consists of a gully run that is left largely unprepared by machines, safety fencing on the turns and in spill zones and an open relaxed format that promotes a fun spirited friendship among competitors and volunteers. It is a rite of passage to win the Baker Banked Slalom, including many of the strongest Snowboard racers and freestylers in the world including Ross Rebagliati, Terje Haakonsen and Maelle Ricker.\n"}
{"id": "24104540", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=24104540", "title": "Solomon Islands at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics", "text": "Solomon Islands at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics\n\nSolomon Islands competed at the 2009 World Championships in Athletics from 15–23 August. A team of 2 athletes was announced in preparation for the competition.\n\n"}
{"id": "29643245", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=29643245", "title": "Stade Alfred Marie-Jeanne", "text": "Stade Alfred Marie-Jeanne\n\nThe Stade Alfred Marie-Jeanne, until August 2011 \"Stade En Camée\", is a multi-purpose stadium located in Rivière-Pilote, Martinique, an overseas department of France. It is currently used mostly for football matches and is set to be utilized as a venue for the 2010 Caribbean Championship.\n"}
{"id": "56071159", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=56071159", "title": "Taufik Hidayat (footballer)", "text": "Taufik Hidayat (footballer)\n\nTaufik Hidayat (born in March 20, 1993) is an Indonesian professional football player who currently plays as a Full-back for Liga 1 club Bali United.\n\nFirst professional club of Taufik Hidayat was PSIS Semarang. Since the first year, Taufik was often being the first choice of coach. In the \"Sepak Bola Gajah\" scandal in 2014, Taufik received a five-year ban on playing in the league and fined Rp 50 million. But then in 2017 through Letter Number 009/Kep/PK-PSSI/I/2017 dated January 10, 2017, status of Taufik together with 9 players and three officials restored by PSSI.\n\nOn December 17, 2017, he signed a year contract with Bali United.\n"}
{"id": "12747961", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=12747961", "title": "The Crowd Goes Wild", "text": "The Crowd Goes Wild\n\nThe Crowd Goes Wild is a 30-minute sports entertainment show broadcast on New Zealand nationwide television channel Prime TV. The show premiered on Monday 26 June 2006.\n\n\"The Crowd Goes Wild\" is presented by sports journalist Andrew Mulligan and James McOnie, Hayley Holt, Ric Salizzo, Wairangi Koopu, Chris Key or Huw Beynon if either of the main hosts are away. The programme covers the sporting events of the day in a lighthearted format, broadcast live from the studio with pre-recorded segments and clips. It airs five times per week at 7:00pm on weeknights and is replayed on both Prime and Sky Sports .\n\nIn late 2010 the show was moved from its live 7pm timeslot to 10:30pm, with the show being recorded at 6:30pm (and played at that time on Sky Sport 1). This move was unpopular, criticised by at least one commentator, and ultimately reversed.\n\nField reporters include James McOnie, Hayley Holt, Chris Key, Makere Gibbons, former All Black Josh Kronfeld, former Silver Fern Cat Tuivaiti, Rugby League star Wairangi Koopu, Winter Olympic athlete Anna Willcox-Silfverberg, and former Silver Fern Storm Purvis . \n\nFormer Sports Cafe host and veteran journalist Ric Salizzo is the show's executive producer, who also on rare occasions will host as well.\n\n\n"}
{"id": "18247565", "url": "https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki?curid=18247565", "title": "Van Phillips (inventor)", "text": "Van Phillips (inventor)\n\nVan Phillips (born 1954) is an American inventor of prosthetics. He is known for the Flex-Foot brand of artificial foot and limbs that he created, and for his charity work for amputees. An amputee himself, having lost a leg below the knee at age 21, Phillips was motivated by the limitations of then-existing artificial limbs to attend the Northwestern University Medical School Prosthetic-Orthotic Center. After graduation, he worked as a biomedical design engineer at the University of Utah before starting his own company, Flex-Foot Incorporated in 1984.\n\nPhillips ultimately created a workable artificial foot made from carbon graphite. Unlike all previous prostheses, it stored kinetic energy from the wearer's steps as potential energy, like a spring, allowing the wearer to run and jump. A prosthetic foot that he created, the Flex-Foot Cheetah, is used by double-amputee and Paralympics gold-medalist Oscar Pistorius, and about 90 percent of Paralympics participants use a variation of the original Flex-Foot design, as well as thousands of people around the world. Phillips sold Flex-Foot to Ossur in 2000, which continues to manufacture the artificial foot. See also Össur#Prosthetics.\n\nIn 1999 he established Second Wind, a non-profit organization to provide inexpensive and resistant prostheses to amputees around the world, and is now working to create a prosthetic leg for land mine victims in developing countries. In 1998 he received the Brian Blatchford Memorial Prize from the International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics.\n\n"}
